Page 1
Page 1

Page 2
Page 2
David McCullough

Page 3
Page 3
For Rosalee Barnes McCullough

Page 4
Page 4
Perseverance and spirit have done wonders in all ages.
—General George Washington

Page 5
Page 5
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Part 1 
Chapter One Sovereign
Chapter Two Rabble
Section I
Section II
Section III
Chapter Three Dorchester
Section I
Section II
Section III
Section IV
Part 2
Chapter Four The Lines are
Drawn
Section I
Section II
Section III
Chapter Five Field
Section I
Section II
Section III
Section IV
Part 3

Page 6
Page 6
Chapter Six Fortune
Section I
Section II
Section III
Chapter Seven Darkest
Section I
Section II
Section III
Other 
Acknowledgments
Bibliography
Photographs & Maps
Also By David McCullough 
Copyright
Scan and Proof Notes

Page 7
Page 7
Part I

Page 8
Page 8
The Siege
 
 
1
 
The reflection upon my situation and that of this army produces
many an uneasy hour when all around me are wrapped in sleep.
Few people know the predicament we are in.
 
—General George Washington
January 14, 1776

Page 9
Page 9
Chapter One SovereignDuty
Contents - Prev / Next
 
God save Great George our King,
Long live our noble King,
God save the King!
Send him victorious,
Happy and glorious,
Long to reign o’er us;
God save the King!
 
ON THE AFTERNOON of Thursday, October 26, 1775, His Royal
Majesty George III, King of England, rode in royal splendor from St.
James’s Palace to the Palace of Westminster, there to address the
opening of Parliament on the increasingly distressing issue of war in
America.
 
The day was cool, but clear skies and sunshine, a rarity in
London, brightened everything, and the royal cavalcade, spruced
and polished, shone to perfection. In an age that had given England
such rousing patriotic songs as “God Save the King” and “Rule
Britannia,” in a nation that adored ritual and gorgeous pageantry, it
was a scene hardly to be improved upon.
 
An estimated 60,000 people had turned out. They lined the whole
route through St. James’s Park. At Westminster people were packed
solid, many having stood since morning, hoping for a glimpse of the
King or some of the notables of Parliament. So great was the crush
that late-comers had difficulty seeing much of anything.

Page 10
Page 10
One of the many Americans then in London, a Massachusetts
Loyalist named Samuel Curwen, found the “mob” outside the door to
the House of Lords too much to bear and returned to his lodgings. It
was his second failed attempt to see the King. The time before, His
Majesty had been passing by in a sedan chair near St. James’s, but
reading a newspaper so close to his face that only one hand was
showing, “the whitest hand my eyes ever beheld with a very large
rose diamond ring,” Loyalist Curwen recorded.
 
The King’s procession departed St. James’s at two o’clock,
proceeding at walking speed. By tradition, two Horse Grenadiers
with swords drawn rode in the lead to clear the way, followed by
gleaming coaches filled with nobility, then a clattering of Horse
Guards, the Yeomen of the Guard in red and gold livery, and a rank
of footmen, also in red and gold. Finally came the King in his
colossal golden chariot pulled by eight magnificent cream-colored
horses (Hanoverian Creams), a single postilion riding the left lead
horse, and six footmen at the side.
 
No mortal on earth rode in such style as their King, the English
knew. Twenty-four feet in length and thirteen feet high, the royal
coach weighed nearly four tons, enough to make the ground tremble
when under way. George III had had it built years before, insisting
that it be “superb.” Three gilded cherubs on top—symbols of
England, Scotland, and Ireland—held high a gilded crown, while over
the heavy spoked wheels, front and back, loomed four gilded sea
gods, formidable reminders that Britannia ruled the waves.
Allegorical scenes on the door panels celebrated the nation’s
heritage, and windows were of sufficient size to provide a full view of
the crowned sovereign within.
 
It was as though the very grandeur, wealth, and weight of the
British Empire were rolling past—an empire that by now included
Canada, that reached from the seaboard of Massachusetts and
Virginia to the Mississippi and beyond, from the Caribbean to the
shores of Bengal. London, its population at nearly a million souls,

Page 11
Page 11
was the largest city in Europe and widely considered the capital of
the world.
 
*** 
 
GEORGE III had been twenty-two when, in 1760, he succeeded
to the throne, and to a remarkable degree he remained a man of
simple tastes and few pretensions. He liked plain food and drank but
little, and wine only. Defying fashion, he refused to wear a wig. That
the palace at St. James’s had become a bit dowdy bothered him not
at all. He rather liked it that way. Socially awkward at Court
occasions—many found him disappointingly dull—he preferred
puttering about his farms at Windsor dressed in farmer’s clothes.
And in notable contrast to much of fashionable society and the
Court, where mistresses and infidelities were not only an accepted
part of life, but often flaunted, the King remained steadfastly faithful
to his very plain Queen, the German princess Charlotte Sophia of
Mecklenburg-Strelitz, with whom by now he had produced ten
children. (Ultimately there would be fifteen.) Gossips claimed Farmer
George’s chief pleasures were a leg of mutton and his plain little
wife.
 
But this was hardly fair. Nor was he the unattractive, dim-witted
man critics claimed then and afterward. Tall and rather handsome,
with clear blue eyes and a generally cheerful expression, George III
had a genuine love of music and played both the violin and piano.
(His favorite composer was Handel, but he adored also the music of
Bach and in 1764 had taken tremendous delight in hearing the boy
Mozart perform on the organ.) He loved architecture and did quite
beautiful architectural drawings of his own. With a good eye for art,
he had begun early to assemble his own collection, which by now
included works by the contemporary Italian painter Canaletto, as well
as watercolors and drawings by such old masters as Poussin and
Raphael. He avidly collected books, to the point where he had
assembled one of the finest libraries in the world. He adored clocks,

Page 12
Page 12
ship models, took great interest in things practical, took great interest
in astronomy, and founded the Royal Academy of Arts.
 
He also had a gift for putting people at their ease. Samuel
Johnson, the era’s reigning arbiter of all things of the mind, and no
easy judge of men, responded warmly to the “unaffected good
nature” of George III. They had met and conversed for the first time
when Johnson visited the King’s library, after which Johnson
remarked to the librarian, “Sir, they may talk of the King as they will,
but he is the finest gentleman I have ever seen.”
 
Stories that he had been slow to learn, that by age eleven he still
could not read, were unfounded. The strange behavior—the so-
called “madness” of King George III—for which he would be long
remembered, did not come until much later, more than twenty years
later, and rather than mental illness, it appears to have been
porphyria, a hereditary disease not diagnosed until the twentieth
century.
 
Still youthful at thirty-seven, and still hardworking after fifteen
years on the throne, he could be notably willful and often
shortsighted, but he was sincerely patriotic and everlastingly duty-
bound. “George, be aKing, ” his mother had told him. As the crisis in
America grew worse, and the opposition in Parliament more strident,
he saw clearly that he must play the part of the patriot-king.
 
He had never been a soldier. He had never been to America, any
more than he had set foot in Scotland or Ireland. But with absolute
certainty he knew what must be done. He would trust to Providence
and his high sense of duty. America must be made to obey.
 
“I have no doubt but the nation at large sees the conduct in
America in its true light,” he had written to his Prime Minister, Lord
North, “and I am certain any other conduct but compelling obedience
would be ruinous and…therefore no consideration could bring me to

Page 13
Page 13
swerve from the present path which I think myself in duty-bound to
follow.”
 
In the House of Lords in March of 1775, when challenged on the
chances of Britain ever winning a war in America, Lord Sandwich,
First Lord of the Admiralty, had looked incredulous. “Suppose the
colonies do abound in men, what does that signify?” he asked. “They
are raw, undisciplined, cowardly men.” And Lord Sandwich was by
no means alone in that opinion. General James Grant, a member of
the House of Commons, had boasted that with 5,000 British regulars
he could march from one end of the American continent to the other,
a claim that was widely quoted.
 
But in striking contrast, several of the most powerful speakers in
Parliament, like the flamboyant Lord Mayor of London, John Wilkes,
and the leading Whig intellectual, Edmund Burke, had voiced ardent
support for and admiration of the Americans. On March 22, in the
House of Commons, Burke had delivered in his heavy Irish brogue
one of the longest, most brilliant speeches of his career, calling for
conciliation with America.
 
Yet for all that, no one in either house, Tory or Whig, denied the
supremacy of Parliament in determining what was best for America.
Even Edmund Burke in his celebrated speech had referred
repeatedly to “our” colonies.
 
Convinced that his army at Boston was insufficient, the King had
dispatched reinforcements and three of his best major generals:
William Howe, John Burgoyne, and Henry Clinton. Howe, a member
of Parliament and a Whig, had earlier told his Nottingham
constituents that if it came to war in America and he were offered a
command, he would decline. But now duty called. “I was ordered,
and could not refuse, without incurring the odious name of
backwardness, to serve my country in distress,” he explained. Howe,
who had served in America during the Seven Years’ War—or the
French and Indian War, as it was known in America—was convinced

Page 14
Page 14
the “insurgents” were few in number in comparison to those loyal to
the Crown.
 
War had come on April 19, with the first blood shed at Lexington
and Concord near Boston, then savagely on June 17 at Breed’s Hill
and Bunker Hill. (The June engagement was commonly known as
the Battle of Bunker Hill on both sides of the Atlantic.) British troops
remained under siege at Boston and were running short of food and
supplies. On July 3, General George Washington of Virginia had
taken command of the American “rabble.”
 
With 3,000 miles of ocean separating Britain from her American
colonies, accounts of such events took a month or more to reach
London. By the time the first news of Lexington and Concord arrived,
it was the end of May and Parliament had begun its long summer
holiday, its members departing London for their country estates.
 
When the outcome at Bunker Hill became known in the last week
of July, it only hardened the King’s resolve. “We must persist,” he
told Lord North. “I know I am doing my duty and therefore can never
wish to retract.”
 
The ever-obliging North suggested that in view of the situation in
America, it might no longer be regarded as a rebellion, but as a
“foreign war,” and thus “every expedient” might be employed.
 
At a hurried meeting at 10 Downing Street, on July 26, the
Cabinet decided to send 2,000 reinforcements to Boston without
delay and to have an army of no fewer than 20,000 regulars in
America by the following spring.
 
Bunker Hill was proclaimed a British victory, which technically it
was. But in plain truth His Majesty’s forces, led by General Howe,
had suffered more than 1,000 casualties in an appalling slaughter
before gaining the high ground. As was observed acidly in both

Page 15
Page 15
London and Boston, a few more such victories would surely spell
ruin for the victors.
 
At summer’s end a British ship out of Boston docked at Plymouth
bearing 170 sick and wounded officers and soldiers, most of whom
had fought at Bunker Hill and “all in great distress,” as described in a
vivid published account:
 
A few of the men came on shore, when never hardly
were seen such objects: some without legs, and others
without arms; and their clothes hanging on them like a
loose morning gown, so much were they fallen away by
sickness and want of nourishment. There were, moreover,
near sixty women and children on board, the widows and
children of men who were slain. Some of these too
exhibited a most shocking spectacle; and even the vessel
itself, though very large, was almost intolerable, from the
stench arising from the sick and wounded.
 
The miseries of the troops still besieged at Boston, and of those
Americans loyal to the King who, fearing for their lives, had
abandoned everything to find refuge in the town, were also
described in letters published in the London papers or in
correspondence to friends and relatives in London. In the General
Evening Post, one soldier portrayed the scene in Boston as nothing
but “melancholy, disease, and death.” Another, whose letter
appeared in the Morning Chronicle and Advertiser, described being
“almost lost for want of fresh provisions…. We are entirely blocked
up…like birds in a cage.”
 
John Singleton Copley, the American portrait painter who had left
Boston to live in London the year before, read in a letter from his half
brother, Henry Pelham:
 
It is inconceivable the distress and ruin this unnatural
dispute has caused to this town and its inhabitants. Almost

Page 16
Page 16
every shop and store is shut. No business of any kind is
going on…. I am with the multitude rendered very unhappy,
the little I collected entirely lost. The clothes upon my back
and a few dollars in my pocket are now the only property
which I have. 
 
*** 
 
DESPITE THE WAR, or more likely because of it, the King
remained popular in the country at large and could count on a loyal
following in Parliament. Political philosophy, patriotism, and a sense
of duty comparable to the King’s own figured strongly in both
houses. So, too, did the immense patronage and public money that
were his alone to dispense. And if that were not sufficient, there was
the outright bribery that had become standard in a blatantly
mercenary system not of his making, but that he readily employed to
get his way.
 
Indeed, bribery, favoritism, and corruption in a great variety of
forms were rampant not only in politics, but at all levels of society.
The clergy and such celebrated observers of the era as Jonathan
Swift and Tobias Smollett had long since made it a favorite subject.
London, said Smollett, was “the devil’s drawing-room.” Samuel
Curwen, the Salem Loyalist, saw dissipation and “vicious
indulgence” everywhere he looked, “from the lowest haunts to the
most elegant and expensive rendezvous of the noble and polished
world.” Feeling a touch of homesickness, Curwen thanked God this
was still not so back in New England.
 
To much of the press and the opposition in Parliament, the
American war and its handling could not have been more misguided.
The Evening Post, the most partisan in its denunciations, called the
war “unnatural, unconstitutional, unnecessary, unjust, dangerous,
hazardous, and unprofitable.” The St. James’s Chronicle wrote
contemptuously of “a foolish, obstinate, and unrelenting King.”The

Page 17
Page 17
Crisis, a vehement new paper, attacked “all the gaudy trappings of
royalty” and the villainy of the King.
 
“What, in God’s name, are ye all about in England? Have you
forgot us?” asked a British officer in a letter from Boston published in
London’sMorning Chronicle. He wished that all the “violent people”
who favored more vigorous measures in America could be sent over
to see for themselves. Their vigor would be quickly cooled. “God
send us peace and a good fireside in Old England.”
 
The King, meanwhile, had recalled General Thomas Gage, his
commander-in-chief at Boston, and in his place put the stouthearted
William Howe. When, in September, an emissary from the
Continental Congress at Philadelphia, Richard Penn, arrived in
London with an “Olive Branch Petition” in hand, expressing loyalty to
the Crown and requesting, in effect, that the King find a way to
reconciliation, George III refused to have anything to do with it.
 
Behind the scenes, Lord North had quietly begun negotiations
with several German princes of Hesse and Brunswick to hire
mercenary troops. And in a confidential note dated October 15, the
King reassured the Prime Minister that every means of “distressing
America” would meet his approval.
 
By the crisp, sunny afternoon of October 26, as George III
proceeded on his way to the opening of Parliament, his popularity
had never seemed higher. Opposition to the war, as everyone knew,
was stronger and more vociferous in London than anywhere in the
country, yet here were crowds greater than any since his ascension
to the throne. Further, they appeared in the best of spirits, as even
the London Public Advertiser took note. Their “looks spoke peace
and good humor”; there was “but little hissing”; the King could feel
secure “in the affection of his people.”
 
***

Page 18
Page 18
A BOOM OF CANNON saluted His Majesty’s arrival at
Westminster, and with the traditional welcoming formalities
performed, the King assumed his place on the throne at the head of
the House of Lords, flanked by the peers in their crimson robes. The
members of the House of Commons, for whom no seats were
provided, remained standing at the rear.
 
The magnitude of the moment was lost on no one. As expected,
the King’s address would be one of the most important ever
delivered by an English monarch.
 
He had a good voice that carried well. “The present situation of
America, and my constant desire to have your advice, concurrence,
and assistance on every important occasion, have determined me to
call you thus early together.” America was in open revolt, he
declared, and he denounced as traitors those who, by “gross
misrepresentation,” labored to inflame his people in America. Theirs
was a “desperate conspiracy.” All the time they had been professing
loyalty to the parent state, “and the strongest protestations of loyalty
to me,” they were preparing for rebellion.
 
They have raised troops, and are collecting a naval
force. They have seized the public revenue, and assumed
to themselves legislative, executive, and judicial powers,
which they already exercise in the most arbitrary manner….
And although many of these unhappy people may still retain
their loyalty…the torrent of violence has been strong
enough to compel their acquiescence till a sufficient force
shall appear to support them.
 
Like the Parliament, he had acted thus far in a spirit of
moderation, he said, and he was “anxious to prevent, if it had been
possible, the effusion of the blood of my subjects, and the calamities
which are inseparable from a state of war.” He hoped his people in
America would see the light, and recognize “that to be a subject of

Page 19
Page 19
Great Britain, with all its consequences, is to be the freest member of
any civil society in the known world.”
 
Then came a new charge, based on opinions received from his
commander at Boston. There must be no more misconceptions
about the true intent of those deceiving the unhappy people of
America. “The rebellious war…is manifestly carried on for the
purpose of establishing an independent empire.”
 
I need not dwell upon the fatal effects of the success of such a
plan. The object is too important, the spirit of the British nation too
high, the resources with which God hath blessed her too numerous,
to give up so many colonies which she has planted with great
industry, nursed with great tenderness, encouraged with many
commercial advantages, and protected and defended at much
expense of blood and treasure.
 
Since, clearly, it was the better part of wisdom “to put a speedy
end” to such disorders, he was increasing both his naval and land
forces. Further, he was pleased to inform the Parliament, he had
received “friendly offers of foreign assistance.”
 
“When the unhappy and deluded multitude, against whom this
force will be directed, shall become sensible of their error, I shall be
ready to receive the misled with tenderness and mercy,” he pledged,
and as evidence of his good intentions, he would give authority to
“certain persons” to grant pardons “upon the spot” in America,
though beyond this he said no more.
 
In sum, he, George III, Sovereign of the Empire, had declared
America in rebellion. He had confirmed that he was committing land
and sea forces—as well as unnamed foreign mercenaries—sufficient
to put an end to that rebellion, and he had denounced the leaders of
the uprising for having American independence as their true
objective, something those leaders themselves had not as yet openly
declared.

Page 20
Page 20
“Among the many unavoidable ill consequences of this rebellion,”
he said at the last, “none affects me more sensibly than the
extraordinary burden which it must create to my faithful subjects.”
 
His Majesty’s appearance before Parliament had lasted just
twenty minutes, after which, as reported, he returned to St. James’s
Palace “as peaceably as he went.”
 
*** 
 
THE MEMBERS of the House of Commons filed out directly to
their own chamber, and debate on the King’s address commenced
“brisk and warm” in both houses, the opposition marshaling the case
for conciliation with extraordinary force.
 
In the House of Lords, expressions of support were spirited
though comparatively brief. The King was praised for his resolution
to uphold the interests and honor of the kingdom, praised for his
decisiveness. “We will support your majesty with our lives and
fortunes,” vowed Viscount Townsend.
 
Those in opposition had more to say, and spoke at times with
pronounced emotion. The measures recommended from the throne,
warned the Marquis of Rockingham, were “big with the most
portentous and ruinous consequences.” The hiring of foreign troops
was an “alarming and dangerous expedient.” Even more deplorable
was the prospect of “shedding British blood by British hands.” Any
notion of conquering America was “wild and extravagant,” said the
Earl of Coventry. The administration was “no longer to be trusted,”
said Lord Lyttleton bitterly.
 
“How comes it that the colonies are charged with planning
independency?” the Earl of Shelburne demanded to know. “Who is it
that presumes to put an assertion (what shall I call it, my Lords?)
contrary to fact, contrary to evidence?…Is it their intention, by thus

Page 21
Page 21
perpetually sounding independence in the ears of the Americans, to
lead them to it?”
 
As the afternoon light began to fade and the chamber grew dim,
the candles of the chandeliers were lit.
 
The one surprise, as the debate continued, was a vehement
speech by the Duke of Grafton, Augustus Henry Fitzroy, former
Prime Minister, who had not previously opposed the administration.
Until now, he said, he had concurred in the belief that the more
forceful the government in dealing with the Americans, the more
likely matters could be “amicably adjusted.” But he had been misled,
deceived. Admitting to his ignorance of the real state of things in
America—and inferring that this was no uncommon handicap in
Parliament—he boldly proposed the repeal of every act concerning
America since the incendiary Stamp Act of 1765.
 
This, I will venture to assert, will answer every end; and
nothing less will accomplish any effectual purpose, without
scenes of ruin and destruction, which I cannot think on
without the utmost grief and horror.
 
The Earl of Dartmouth, Secretary of State for the Colonies, was
astonished. How could any noble lord possibly condemn the policies
of the administration, or withdraw support, without at least giving
them a fair trial?
 
*** 
 
IT WAS IN THE COMMONS that the longer, more turbulent
conflict ensued. Of the twenty or so who rose to speak, few held
back. Attacks on the King, Lord North, the Foreign Ministry in
general, and on one another at times brought the heat of debate to
the boiling point. There were insults exchanged that would long
fester, bombast and hyperbole in abundance, and moments when

Page 22
Page 22
eloquence was brought to bear with a dramatic effect remarkable
even in the Commons.
 
It was Parliament as theater, and gripping, even if the outcome,
like much of theater, was understood all along. For importantly it was
also well understood, and deeply felt, that the historic chamber was
again the setting for history, that issues of the utmost consequence,
truly the fate of nations, were at stake.
 
The passion of opposing opinion was evident at once, as the
youthful John Dyke Acland of Devonshire declared emphatic support
of the King’s address. True it was that the task of “reducing America
to a just obedience” should not be underestimated, he said, but
where “the interests of a great people” were concerned, “difficulties
must be overcome, not yielded to.”
 
Acland, a headstrong young army officer, was ready to serve in
America himself (and would), and thus what he said had unusual
force, if not perfect historic validity. “Recollect the strength, the
resources, and above all the spirit of the British nation, which when
roused knows no opposition.”
 
Let me remind you of those extensive and successful
wars that this country has carried on before the continent of
America was known. Let me turn your attention to that
period when you defended this very people from the attacks
of the most powerful and valiant nation in Europe [France],
when your armies gave law, and your fleets rode triumphant
on every coast. Shall we be told then that this people [the
Americans], whose greatness is the work of our hands, and
whose insolence arises from our divisions, who have
mistaken the lenity of this country for its weakness, and the
reluctance to punish, for a want of power to vindicate the
violated rights of British subjects—shall we be told that such
a people can resist the powerful efforts of this nation?

Page 23
Page 23
At about the time the chandeliers were being lighted in the
House, John Wilkes, Lord Mayor of London, champion of the people
and the homeliest man in Parliament, stood to be heard, and to let
there be no doubt that he was John Wilkes.
 
“I speak, Sir, as a firm friend to England and America, but still
more to universal liberty and the rights of all mankind. I trust no part
of the subjects of this vast empire will ever submit to be slaves.”
Never had England been engaged in a contest of such import to her
own best interests and possessions, Wilkes said.
 
We are fighting for the subjection, the unconditional
submission of a country infinitely more extended than our
own, of which every day increases the wealth, the natural
strength, the population. Should we not succeed…we shall
be considered as their most implacable enemies, an eternal
separation will follow, and the grandeur of the British empire
pass away.
 
The war with “our brethren” in America was “unjust…fatal and
ruinous to our country,” he declared.
 
There was no longer any question whether the Americans would
fight, conceded Tory Adam Ferguson, but could anyone doubt the
strength of Great Britain to “reduce” them? And this, he said, must
be done quickly and decisively, as an act of humanity. Half measures
would not do. Half measures could lead only to the horrors of civil
war.
 
In response, George Johnstone, a dashing figure who had once
served as governor of West Florida, delivered one of the longest,
most vehement declamations of the night, exclaiming, “Every
Machiavellian policy is now to be vindicated towards the people of
America.”

Page 24
Page 24
Men are to be brought to this black business hood-
winked. They are to be drawn in by degrees, until they
cannot retreat…. we are breaking through all those sacred
maxims of our forefathers, and giving the alarm to every
wise man on the continent of America, that all his rights
depend on the will of men whose corruptions are notorious,
who regard him as an enemy, and who have no interest in
his prosperity.
 
Johnstone praised the people of New England for their courage
and fortitude. There was a wide difference, he said, between the
English officer or soldier who merely did his duty, and those of the
New England army, where every man was thinking of what further
service he could perform. No one who loved “the glorious spirit of
freedom” could not be moved by the spectacle of Bunker Hill, where
“an irregular peasantry” had so bravely faced “the gallant Howe”
leading the finest troops in the world. “Who is there that can dismiss
all doubts on the justice of a cause which can inspire such conscious
rectitude?”
 
Alexander Wedderburn, the Solicitor General, belittled the very
idea of standing in the way of the King and called for the full-scale
conquest of America. “Why then do we hesitate?” he asked.
 
Because an inconsiderable party, inconsistent in their
own policies, and always hostile to all government but their
own, endeavor to obstruct our measures, and clog the
wheels of government? Let us rather second the indignant
voice of the nation, which presses in from all quarters upon
the Sovereign, calling loudly for vigorous measures…. Sir,
we have been too long deaf. We have too long shown our
forbearance and long-suffering…. Our thunders must go
forth. America must be conquered.
 
As the night wore on, Lord North, the stout, round-shouldered
Prime Minister, remained conspicuously silent in his front-bench

Page 25
Page 25
seat, his large, nearsighted eyes and full cheeks giving him the look,
as the wit Horace Walpole said, of a blind trumpeter. North was
much liked—moderate, urbane, and intelligent. He had made his
career in the Commons and, with his affable manner, had acquired
few if any enemies among his political opponents. When attacked,
he took no offense. He could be a markedly persuasive speaker but
was equally capable, when need be, of remaining silent, even
napping a bit.
 
From years of experience North had also learned to count votes
in advance, and he knew now, as did nearly everyone present, that
the decided majority of the Commons, like the people at large, stood
behind the King.
 
Perhaps the most telling moment of the whole heated session
came near midnight, when another army officer, but of an older
generation than John Dyke Acland, rose to speak. Colonel Isaac
Barré was a veteran of the French and Indian War who had come
home from the Battle of Quebec badly disfigured. He had been hit in
the head by a musket ball that blinded him in one eye and left his
face twisted into a permanent sneer. Further, it had been Isaac
Barré, in a past speech in defense of the Americans, who had first
called them “Sons of Liberty,” and the name had taken hold.
 
He had lost one eye, the colonel reminded his listeners, but the
one good “military eye” he had left did not deceive him. The only way
to avert “this American storm” was to reach an accommodation just
as soon as possible.
 
*** 
 
BETWEEN THEM, Edmund Burke and young Charles James
Fox filled the next several hours. Burke, in customary fashion, took
his time. Nearly all that he said, he and others had said before, but
he saw no harm in repetition, or any need for hurry. He held the floor
for nearly two hours, a large part of his speech devoted to the

Page 26
Page 26
disgrace of British forces cooped up in Boston by those said to be an
undisciplined rabble.
 
There were no ringing lines from Burke this time, little at all for
the newspapers to quote. Possibly he did not wish to outshine Fox,
his protégé, who spoke next and who, at twenty-six, was already a
dazzling political star.
 
Born to wealth and position, Fox was an unabashed fop, a
dandified “macaroni,” who at times appeared in high-heeled shoes,
each of a different color, and happily spent most nights drinking or
gambling away his father’s fortune at London’s best clubs. But his
intellect and oratorical gifts were second to none. He always spoke
spontaneously, never from notes or a prepared text. Fox, it would be
observed, would as soon write down what he was going to say as
pay a bill before it came due.
 
He attacked immediately and in searing fashion, calling Lord
North the “blundering pilot” who had brought the nation to a terrible
impasse. If Edmund Burke had failed to provide a memorable line for
the night’s efforts, Fox did at once:
 
Lord Chatham, the King of Prussia, nay, Alexander the
Great, never gained more in one campaign than the noble
lord has lost—he has lost a whole continent.
 
It was time for a change in the administration, time for new
policies. The present ministers were enemies of freedom.
 
I cannot consent to the bloody consequences of so silly
a contest about so silly an object, conducted in the silliest
manner that history or observation has ever furnished an
instance of, and from which we are likely to derive nothing
but poverty, disgrace, defeat, and ruin.

Page 27
Page 27
Once Fox finished, North stood at his place and calmly allowed
he had no wish to remain a day in office were he to be judged
inactive, inattentive, or inconsiderate.
 
North was not a man enamored with war. He had nothing of the
look or temperament of a war leader. Privately he was not at all sure
it would be possible to vanquish the Americans, and he worried
about the cost. To General Burgoyne he had written, “I would
abandon the contest were I not most intimately convinced in my own
conscience that our cause is just and important.” George III relied on
him, calling him “my sheet anchor,” and it was, and would remain,
North’s role to explain and defend the King and administration
policies and decisions before the Commons.
 
The intention now, he affirmed, was to send a powerful sea and
land force across the Atlantic. But with these forces would also go
“offers of mercy upon a proper submission.” How “proper
submission” was to be determined, or who was to bear such offers,
he did not say. As time would show, however, the real purpose of
such peace gestures was to speed up an American surrender.
 
“This will show we are in earnest, that we are prepared to punish,
but are nevertheless ready to forgive. This is, in my opinion, the most
likely means of producing an honorable reconciliation.”
 
On that note the debate ended.
 
In the House of Lords, where work had wound up at midnight, the
opposition to the King’s address, and thus to all-out war in America,
was defeated by a vote of more than two to one, 69 to 29.
 
In the House of Commons, their impassioned speeches
notwithstanding, the opposition was defeated by an even greater
margin, 278 to 108.

Page 28
Page 28
By the time the vote in the Commons had concluded, it was four
in the morning.
 
*** 
 
ONE OF THOSE MEMBERS of the House of Commons who had
refrained from speaking, and who felt extremely pleased with the
outcome, was the gentleman-scholar Edward Gibbon. A supporter of
Lord North, Gibbon never spoke on any issue. But in private
correspondence from his London home, he had been assuring
friends that “some[thing] will be done” about America. The power of
the empire would be “exerted to the utmost,” he wrote. “Irish papists,
Hanoverians, Canadians, Indians, etc. will all in various shapes be
employed.”
 
Gibbon, who was then putting the final touches to the first volume
of his masterpiece, History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman
Empire, now felt even more confident about the course of history in
his own time. “The conquest of America is a great work,” he wrote.
 
Soon after, in early November, King George III appointed a new
Secretary for the American colonies, Lord George Germain, a choice
that left little doubt, if any remained, that the King, too, considered
the conquest of America serious work to which he was seriously
committed.
 
Germain was to replace the Earl of Dartmouth, whose attitude
toward the war seemed at times less than wholehearted. He was a
proud, intelligent, exceedingly serious man of sixty, tall, physically
impressive, and, notably unlike the King and Lord North, he was a
soldier. He had served in the Seven Years’ War in Germany and with
good reputation, until the Battle of Minden, when, during a cavalry
attack, he was accused of being slow to obey orders. He was not
charged with cowardice, as his critics liked to say. At a court-martial
called at his own insistence, he was found guilty only of

Page 29
Page 29
disobedience. But his military career ended when the court declared
him unfit for further service.
 
As a politician in the years since, he had performed diligently,
earning a high reputation as an administrator. In his new role he
would direct the main operations of the war and was expected to
take a firm hand. To many he seemed the perfect counterpart to the
obliging, unassertive North.
 
For the “riotous rebels” of America, he had no sympathy. What
was needed, Germain said, was a “decisive blow.” The King thought
highly of him.

Page 30
Page 30
Chapter Two Rabble in Arms
Contents - Prev / Next
 
His Excellency General Washington has arrived amongst us,
universally admired. Joy was visible on every countenance.
—General Nathanael Greene
 
I
Contents - Prev / Next
 
"HERE WE ARE AT LOGGERHEADS," wrote the youthful
brigadier general from Rhode Island, appraising the scene at Boston
in the last days of October 1775.
 
I wish we had a large stock of [gun]powder that we
might annoy the enemy wherever they make their
appearance…. but for want thereof we are obliged to
remain idle spectators, for we cannot get at them and they
are determined not to come to us.
 
At age thirty-three, Nathanael Greene was the youngest general
officer in what constituted the American army, and by conventional
criterion, an improbable choice for such responsibility. He had been
a full-time soldier for all of six months. Unlike any of the other
American generals, he had never served in a campaign, never set
foot on a battlefield. He was a foundryman by trade. What he knew
of warfare and military command came almost entirely from books.

Page 31
Page 31
Besides, he was a Quaker, and though of robust physique, a
childhood accident had left him with a stiff right leg and a limp. He
also suffered from occasional attacks of asthma.
 
But Nathanael Greene was no ordinary man. He had a quick,
inquiring mind and uncommon resolve. He was extremely
hardworking, forthright, good-natured, and a born leader. His
commitment to the Glorious Cause of America, as it was called, was
total. And if his youth was obvious, the Glorious Cause was to a
large degree a young man’s cause. The commander in chief of the
army, George Washington, was himself only forty-three. John
Hancock, the President of the Continental Congress, was thirty-nine,
John Adams, forty, Thomas Jefferson, thirty-two, younger even than
the young Rhode Island general. In such times many were being
cast in roles seemingly beyond their experience or capacities, and
Washington had quickly judged Nathanael Greene to be “an object
of confidence.”
 
He had been born and raised in Kent County, Rhode Island, on a
farm by Potowomut Creek, near the village of Warwick,
approximately sixty miles south of Boston. He was the third of the
eight sons of a prominent, industrious Quaker also named
Nathanael, and the one, of all the sons, his father counted on most
to further the family interests. These included the home-farm, a
general store, a gristmill, a sawmill, a coasting sloop, and the
Greene forge, all, as was said, in “constant and profitable operation.”
The forge, the most thriving enterprise, which produced anchors and
chains and employed scores of men, was one of the leading
businesses in the colony, and the Greenes, as a result, had become
people of substantial means. The fact that the patriarch owned a
sedan chair was taken as the ultimate measure of just how greatly
the family had prospered.
 
Because education did not figure prominently in his father’s idea
of the Quaker way, young Nathanael had received little schooling.
“My father was a man [of] great piety,” he would explain. “[He] had

Page 32
Page 32
an excellent understanding, and was governed in his conduct by
humanity and kind benevolence. But his mind was overshadowed
with prejudices against literary accomplishments.” With his brothers,
Nathanael had been put to work at an early age, on the farm at first,
then at the mills and forge. In time, determined to educate himself,
he began reading all he could, guided and encouraged by several
learned figures, including the Rhode Island clergyman Ezra Stiles,
one of the wisest men of the time, who would later become the
president of Yale College.
 
Nathanael read Caesar and Horace in English translation, Swift,
Pope, and Locke’s Essay Concerning Human Understanding. On
visits to Newport and Boston, he began buying books and
assembling his own library. Recalling their youth, one of his brothers
would describe Nathanael during lulls in the clamor of the foundry,
seated near the great trip-hammer, a leather-bound volume of Euclid
in hand, calmly studying.
 
“I lament the want of a liberal education. I feel the mist [of]
ignorance to surround me,” he wrote to a like-minded friend. He
found he enjoyed expressing himself on paper and had a penchant
in such correspondence for endless philosophizing on the meaning
of life. Yet for all this no thought of a life or occupation other than
what he knew seems to have crossed his mind until the threat of
conflict with Great Britain.
 
The description that would come down the generations in the
family was of a “cheerful, vigorous, thoughtful” young man who, like
his father, loved a “merry jest or tale,” who did comic imitations of
characters from Tristram Shandy, and relished the company of
young ladies, while they, reportedly, “never felt lonely where he was.”
Once, accused by a dancing partner of dancing stiffly, because of his
bad leg, Nathanael replied, “Very true, but you see I dance strong.”
 
His defects were perceived to be a certain “nervous
temperament” and susceptibility to poor health, impetuousness, and

Page 33
Page 33
acute sensitivity to criticism.
 
Full-grown, he was a burly figure, about five feet ten inches tall,
with the arms and shoulders of a foundryman, and handsome,
though an inoculation for smallpox had left a cloudy spot in his right
eye. A broad forehead and a full, “decided” mouth were considered
his best features, though a soldier sent to deliver a message to the
general would remember his “fine blue eyes, which struck me with a
considerable degree of awe, that I could scarcely deliver my
message.”
 
In 1770, when Nathanael was still in his twenties, his father had
put him in charge of another family-owned foundry in the neighboring
village of Coventry, beside the Pawtuxet River, and on a nearby hill
Nathanael built a house of his own. Following the death of his father
late that same year, he took charge of the entire business. By 1774,
when he met and married pretty, flirtatious Katherine Littlefield, who
was fourteen years his junior, he was perceived to be a “very
remarkable man.”
 
It was then, too, with war threatening, that he turned his mind to
“the military art.” Having ample means to buy whatever books he
needed, he acquired a number of costly military treatises few could
afford. It was a day and age that saw no reason why one could not
learn whatever was required—learn virtually anything—by the close
study of books, and he was a prime example of such faith. Resolved
to become a “fighting Quaker,” he made himself as knowledgeable
on tactics, military science, and leadership as any man in the colony.
 
“The first of all qualities [of a general] is courage,” he read in the
Memoirs Concerning the Art of War by Marshal Maurice de Saxe,
one of the outstanding commanders of the era. “Without this the
others are of little value, since they cannot be used. The second is
intelligence, which must be strong and fertile in expedients. The third
is health.”

Page 34
Page 34
He took a leading part in organizing a militia unit, the Kentish
Guards, only to be told that his stiff leg disqualified him from being
an officer. To have it declared publicly that his limp—his “halting”—
would be a “blemish” on the company was, as he wrote, a
“mortification” beyond any he had known.
 
If unacceptable as an officer, he would willingly serve in the
ranks. Shouldering an English musket he had bought at Boston from
a British deserter, he marched as a private in company drills for eight
months, until it became obvious that for a man of such knowledge
and ability, it would be best to forget about the limp.
 
Almost overnight he was given full command of the Rhode Island
regiments. Exactly how this came about remains unclear. One of his
strongest admirers and mentors was Samuel Ward of Rhode Island,
a delegate to the Continental Congress, who was also the uncle of
Nathanael’s wife Katherine and presumably used his influence. But
that Nathanael had so willingly marched in the ranks could only have
favored him strongly among his fellow volunteers when it came to
choosing a commander.
 
General Greene had been at Boston since early May of 1775, at
the head of what was called the Rhode Island Army of Observation,
applying himself every waking moment, at times sleeping only a few
hours a night. Thus far no one had found cause to complain about
his youth or inexperience.
 
Whatever he lacked in knowledge or experience, he tried to make
up for with “watchfulness and industry,” he would later confide to
John Adams.
 
As commander of the “Army of Observation,” encamped at the
American citadel on Prospect Hill, he tried to take in everything, to
observe and appraise the situation as realistically as possible. While
the American army controlled the land around Boston, the British,
strongly fortified in the city and on Bunker Hill, had control of the sea

Page 35
Page 35
and could thereby supply their troops and send reinforcements.
(Only weeks before, in September, reinforcements of five regiments
had arrived.) The task at hand, therefore, seemed clear enough: to
confine the King’s men in Boston, cut them off from supplies of fresh
provisions, and keep them from coming out to gain what one of their
generals, Burgoyne, called “elbow room.”
 
If it ever came to a fight, the American army had scarcely any
artillery, and almost no gunpowder, yet to Greene the greater
weakness and worry was the continuing disorderly state of the army
itself. As he wrote to his friend Samuel Ward at the Continental
Congress, the prospect was deeply disturbing, “when you consider
how raw and undisciplined the troops are in general, and what war-
like preparations are going on [in] England.”
 
*** 
 
AT THE START of the siege there had been no American army.
Even now it had no flag or uniforms. Though in some official
documents it had been referred to as the Continental Army, there
was no clear agreement on what it should be called in actual
practice. At first it was referred to as the New England army, or the
army at Boston. The Continental Congress had appointed George
Washington to lead “the army of the United Colonies,” but in
correspondence with the general, the President of Congress, John
Hancock, referred to it only as “the troops under your command.”
Washington, in his formal orders, called them the “Troops of the
United Provinces of North America.” Privately he described them as
the “raw materials” for an army.
 
To the British and those Loyalists who had taken refuge in
Boston, they were simply “the rebels,” or “the country people,”
undeserving the words “American” or “army.” General John
Burgoyne disdainfully dubbed them “a preposterous parade,” a
“rabble in arms.”

Page 36
Page 36
In April, when the call for help first went out after Lexington and
Concord, militia and volunteer troops from the other New England
colonies had come by the thousands to join forces with the
Massachusetts regiments—1,500 Rhode Islanders led by Nathanael
Greene, 5,000 from Connecticut under the command of Israel
Putnam. John Stark’s New Hampshire regiment of 1,000 had
marched in snow and rain, “wet and sloppy.”
“through mud and mire,” without food or tents, seventy-five miles
in three and a half days. The Massachusetts regiments, by far the
strongest of the provincial troops, possibly numbered more than
10,000.
 
By June a sprawling, spontaneous, high-spirited New England
army such as had never been seen was gathered about Boston.
Washington, arriving in the first week of July, was told he had 20,000
men, but no one knew for certain. No count had been taken until he
made it a first order of business. In fact, there were 16,000, of which
fewer than 14,000 were fit for duty. More than 1,500 were sick,
another 1,500 absent.
 
In a regular army such a count could have been accomplished in
a matter of hours, Washington noted disapprovingly. As things were,
it took eight days. The enemy’s total strength was believed to be
11,000. In reality, there were perhaps 7,000 of the King’s men in
Boston, or roughly half the number under Washington’s command.
 
In a formal address from the Massachusetts Provincial Congress,
Washington had been warned not to expect “regularity and
discipline” among the men. The youth of the army had little or no
experience with military life. Nor were they “possessed of the
absolute necessity of cleanliness.” Beyond that Washington found
them to be men of a decidedly different sort than he had expected,
and he was not at all pleased.
 
The lay of the land about Boston was also different from anything
in the general’s military experience. In the simplest terms, as he

Page 37
Page 37
drew in his own rough map, the setting was one of three irregular
peninsulas at the head of Boston Harbor, with the peninsula of
Boston in the middle, that of Charlestown (and Bunker Hill) just to
the north, and Dorchester close by to the south. But as Boston was
connected to the mainland only by a narrow, half-mile causeway, or
neck, it was more like an island than a peninsula. And thus, by
barricading the Neck, it had been relatively simple to keep the British
“bottled up” in Boston, just as the British had built their own
barricades at the Neck to keep the Americans from coming in.
 
The British still held Charlestown, which was largely in ruins, and
Bunker Hill, which was their citadel and a formidable advantage.
Neither side had yet moved to fortify the even higher ground of the
Dorchester peninsula overlooking the harbor.
 
With its numerous green hills falling away to blue water, it was a
particularly beautiful part of the world and especially in summer.
Washington thought it “very delightful country,” and more the pity that
it should be a theater of war. A British officer described it as “country
of the most charming green that delighted eye ever gazed on.” Views
sketched from the uplands of Charlestown by one of the British
engineers, Captain Archibald Robertson, show how many broad,
open fields and meadows there were, and how modest was the
skyline of Boston, its church spires more like those of a country
village. They might have been sketches of Arcadia.
 
Had a seagull’s-eye view been possible, one could have seen the
whole American army and its fortifications strung out in a great arc of
about ten miles around the landward side of Boston, from the Mystic
River on the northeast to Roxbury to the south, with British redcoats
camped on the slopes of the Boston Common and manning
defenses at the Neck and within the town and on Bunker Hill. A lofty
beacon pole rose from the crest of Beacon Hill, and at the center of
the town, the Province House, headquarters for the British
command, could be readily identified by its large, octagonal cupola
and distinctive gold weather vane of an Indian with bow and arrow.

Page 38
Page 38
In the harbor off Long Wharf were British ships lying at anchor—
and three were ships of the line, ships of fifty guns or more—while
over to the right of the Dorchester peninsula, at the narrow entrance
to the Inner Harbor, on Castle Island, stood the old fort Castle
William, also occupied by the British.
 
The main concentration of American troops was at Prospect Hill
to the north. Others were encamped a few miles farther inland, at the
pretty little college town of Cambridge on the Charles River, and
close to the Neck at Roxbury, where the white spire of the Roxbury
meetinghouse rose from the top of still another prominent hill. At
Cambridge troops were encamped mainly on the Common, though
most of the town and the red-brick buildings of Harvard College had
also been taken over.
 
Needing more than his rough sketch of the terrain, Washington
had assigned a talented nineteen-year-old lieutenant, John Trumbull,
the son of the governor of Connecticut, to do a series of maps and
drawings. For one sketch of the British defenses at the Neck, young
Trumbull had crawled through high grass almost to the enemy line.
 
For their part, the British had assigned an experienced
cartographer, Lieutenant Richard Williams, who, with the help of a
small crew, moved his surveyor’s transit and brass chains from one
vantage point to the next, taking and recording careful sightings. The
result was a beautifully delineated, hand-colored map showing “the
True Situation of His Majesty’s Army and also those of the Rebels.”
All fortifications were clearly marked, all landmarks neatly labeled,
including “Mount Whoredom,” Boston’s red-light district. Lieutenant
Williams had been appalled to find prostitution so in evidence in what
was supposedly the center of Puritanism—“There’s perhaps no town
of its size could turn out more whores than this could,” he noted in
his journal—and accuracy demanded that this, too, be shown on the
map.

Page 39
Page 39
Not the least of Washington’s problems was that he had
command of a siege, yet within his entire army there was not one
trained engineer to design and oversee the building of defenses.
Still, he ordered larger and stronger defenses built, and the work
went forward. “Thousands are at work every day,” wrote the
Reverend William Emerson of Concord after touring the lines. “ ’Tis
surprising the work that has been done…. ’Tis incredible.” It had
been the Reverend Emerson who declared the morning of April 19,
as British regiments advanced on Concord, “Let us stand our
ground. If we die, let us die here!”
 
With telescopes from Prospect Hill and other vantage points, the
army kept constant watch on the regulars in Boston, just as the
regulars kept watch on the army. (“It seemed to be the principle
employment of both armies to look at each other with spyglasses,”
wrote the eminent Loyalist Peter Oliver, former chief justice of the
province.)
 
Washington knew little about Boston. He had been there only
once and but briefly twenty years before, when he was a young
Virginia colonel hoping for advancement in the regular army. And
though each side dispatched its spies, he put particular emphasis on
“intelligence” from the start, and was willing to pay for it. Indeed, the
first large sum entered in his account book was for $333.33, a great
deal of money, for an unnamed man “to go into Boston…for the
purpose of conveying intelligence of the enemy’s movements and
designs.”
 
The fear that the British were preparing an attack was ever
present. “We scarcely lie down or rise up, but with expectation that
the night or the day must produce some important event,” wrote one
of Washington’s staff.
 
It was in the first week of August, at the end of his first month as
commander, when Washington learned how much worse things were
than he knew. A report on the supply of gunpowder at hand revealed

Page 40
Page 40
a total of less than 10,000 pounds, and the situation was not
expected to improve soon. Very little gunpowder was produced in the
colonies. What supplies there were came mainly by clandestine
shipments from Europe to New York and Philadelphia by way of the
Dutch island St. Eustatius in the Caribbean. At present, there was
powder enough only for about nine rounds per man. According to
one account, Washington was so stunned by the report he did not
utter a word for half an hour.
 
*** 
 
THE SPRAWLING AMERICAN ENCAMPMENTS bore little
resemblance to the usual military presence. Tents and shelters were
mainly patched-together concoctions of whatever could be found.
Each was “a portraiture of the temper and taste of the person that
encamps in it,” wrote clergyman Emerson.
 
Some are made of boards, some of sailcloth, and some
partly of one and partly of the other. Others are made of
stone and turf, and others again of brick and others brush.
Some are thrown up in a hurry and look as if they could not
help it—mere necessity—others are curiously wrought with
doors and windows.
 
A notable exception was the encampment of Nathanael Greene’s
Rhode Islanders. There, “proper tents” were arranged row on row
like “the regular camp of the enemy…everything in the most exact
English taste,” recorded Emerson approvingly. On the whole,
however, he thought “the great variety” of the camps most
picturesque.
 
Others were considerably less charmed. The drunken carousing
to be seen, the foul language to be heard were appalling to many,
even among the soldiers themselves. “Wickedness prevails very
much,” declared Lieutenant Joseph Hodgkins of Ipswich,
Massachusetts.

Page 41
Page 41
A veteran of Bunker Hill and a cobbler by trade, Hodgkins was
thirty-two years old and a man, like many, who had already seen a
good deal of trouble and sorrow in his life. His first wife and four of
their five children had all died of disease before the war began. To
the remaining child and to his second wife, Sarah Perkins, and the
two children born of this second marriage, he was a devoted father
and husband. Greatly concerned for their welfare and knowing her
concern for him, he wrote to Sarah at every chance. But for now, as
he told her, he had no time to be “pertickler” about details.
 
A British ship’s surgeon who used the privileges of his profession
to visit some of the rebel camps, described roads crowded with carts
and wagons hauling mostly provisions, but also, he noted, inordinate
quantities of rum—“for without New England rum, a New England
army could not be kept together.” The rebels, he calculated, were
consuming a bottle a day per man.
 
To judge by the diary of an officer with the Connecticut troops at
Roxbury, Lieutenant Jabez Fitch, who enjoyed a sociable drink, there
was considerably more besides plain rum to be had. “Drank some
grog,” he recorded at the close of one day, after a stop at a nearby
tavern; “the gin sling passed very briskly,” reads another entry. “In
the morning I attended the alarm post as usual…then down at Lt.
Brewster’s tent to drink Ens. Perkins’ cherry rum, came back and eat
breakfast….” He imbibed wine and brandy sling, and on an
expedition “up into Cambridge town,” after a stop to sample “some
flip” (a sweet, potent mix of liquor, beer, and sugar), he made for
another tavern, the Punch Bowl, “where there was fiddling and
dancing in great plenty…. I came home a little before daylight in.”
 
Lieutenant Fitch was one of a number of veterans of the French
and Indian War, an easygoing Norwich, Connecticut, farmer and the
father of eight children. He enjoyed soldiering and felt so sure his
fourteen-year-old son would, too, that he had brought the boy along
with him. Lieutenant Fitch, an early member of the Sons of Liberty,

Page 42
Page 42
had been one of the first to answer the call for reinforcements for
Boston. Little seemed ever to bother him, though he did object to
soldiers “dirty as hogs.” Much of his free time he spent writing in his
diary or to his wife. The sound of British shells overhead was like
that of a flock of geese, he wrote, and “has done more to exhilarate
the spirits of our people than 200 gallons of New England rum.”
 
For all its lack of ammunition, tents, and uniforms, the army was
amply fed. Fresh produce in abundance and at low prices rolled into
the camps all through summer and early fall. The men could count
on meat or fish almost every day. Jabez Fitch wrote of enjoying fresh
eggs, clams, apples, peaches, and watermelons, a “very good”
breakfast of “warm bread and good camp butter with a good dish of
coffee.”
“a hearty dinner of pork and cabbage.” As yet, no one was
complaining of a shortage of food.
 
There had been sickness aplenty from the start, deadly “camp
fever,” which grew worse as summer went on. Anxious mothers and
wives from the surrounding towns and countryside came to nurse the
sick and dying. “Your brother Elihu lies very dangerously sick with a
dysentery…his life is despaired of,” wrote Abigail Adams from
nearby Braintree to her husband John in Philadelphia. “Your mother
is with him in great anguish.” Captain Elihu Adams, a farmer with a
wife and three children, was one of several hundred who died of
illness.
 
“Camp fever” or “putrid fever” were terms used for the highly
infectious, deadly scourges of dysentery, typhus, and typhoid fever,
the causes of which were unknown or only partially understood.
Dysentery had been the curse of armies since ancient times, as
recorded by Herodotus. Typhus, characterized by high fever, severe
headaches, and delirium, was carried by lice and fleas, which were a
plague amid the army. (One soldier recorded seeing a dead body so
covered with lice that it was thought the lice alone had killed the
man.) Typhoid fever, also characterized by a raging fever, red rash,

Page 43
Page 43
vomiting, diarrhea, and excruciating abdominal pain, was caused by
the bacillusSalmonella typhosa in contaminated food or water,
usually the result of too little separation between sewage and
drinking water.
 
And it was not the troops alone who suffered from camp fever.
Many of those who came to nurse them were sickened, or carried
the disease home, and thus it lay waste to one New England town
after another. Of the parishioners of a single church in Danbury,
Connecticut, more than a hundred would die of camp fever by
November.
 
“Infectious filth” was understood to be the killer. Cleanliness in
person, clean cooking utensils, clean water and unspoiled meat and
produce were seen as essential to the prolonged health of the army,
and this was among the chief reasons for constant insistence on
discipline and order, and especially with so many thousands
encamped in such close company.
 
As it was, open latrines were the worst of it, but there was also,
as recorded in one orderly book, a “great neglect of people repairing
to the necessaries.” Instead, they voided “excrement about the fields
perniciously.” The smell of many camps was vile in the extreme.
 
New England men were also averse to washing their own
clothes, considering that women’s work. The British included women
in their army—wives and other so-called camp followers, some of
whom were prostitutes—who did the washing, but that was not the
way with the New Englanders.
 
The troops were in good spirits, but had yet to accept the
necessity of order or obedience. Many had volunteered on the
condition that they could elect their own officers, and the officers, in
turn, were inclined out of laziness, or for the sake of their own
popularity, to let those in the ranks do much as they pleased. Many
officers had little or no idea of what they were supposed to do. “The

Page 44
Page 44
officers in general,” remembered John Trumbull, “[were] quite as
ignorant of military life as the troops.”
 
Washington had declared new rules and regulations in force,
insisting on discipline, and he made his presence felt by reviewing
the defenses on horseback almost daily. “New lords, new laws,”
observed Pastor Emerson. “New orders from his Excellency are read
to the respective regiments every morning after prayers. The strictest
government is taking place.”
 
Those who broke the rules were subjected to severe punishment
or disgrace. They were flogged, or made to ride the “wooden horse,”
or drummed out of camp. One man was whipped for “making a
disturbance in the time of public worship,” another for desertion.
Another received twenty “stripes” for striking an officer, another, thirty
for damning an officer. But change was maddeningly slow in coming.
 
As scathing as any eyewitness description was that provided by a
precocious young New Englander of Loyalist inclinations named
Benjamin Thompson, who, after being refused a commission by
Washington, served in the British army, later settled in Europe,
renamed himself Count Rumford, and ultimately became one of the
era’s prominent men of science. Washington’s army, wrote
Thompson, was “the most wretchedly clothed, and as dirty a set of
mortals as ever disgraced the name of a soldier…. They would
rather let their clothes rot upon their backs than be at the trouble of
cleaning ’em themselves.” To this “nasty way of life” Thompson
attributed all the “putrid, malignant and infectious disorders” that took
such a heavy toll.
 
His Loyalist bias notwithstanding, Thompson’s portrayal was
largely the truth. Such British commanders as Burgoyne and Percy
were hardly to be blamed for dismissing Washington’s army as
“peasantry,” “ragamuffins,” or “rabble in arms.” Except for Greene’s
Rhode Islanders and a few Connecticut units, they looked more like
farmers in from the fields than soldiers.

Page 45
Page 45
That so many were filthy dirty was perfectly understandable, as
so many, when not drilling, spent their days digging trenches, hauling
rock, and throwing up great mounds of earth for defense. At one
point early in the siege there were 4,000 men at work on Prospect
Hill alone. It was dirty, hard labor, and there was little chance or the
means ever to bathe or enjoy such luxury as a change of clothes.
 
Few of the men had what would pass for a uniform. Field officers
were all but indistinguishable from the troops they led. Not only were
most men unwashed and often unshaven, they were clad in a
bewildering variety of this and that, largely whatever they, or others
at home, had been able to throw together before they trudged off to
war. (One Connecticut woman was reported to have “fitted out” five
sons and eleven grandsons.) They wore heavy homespun coats and
shirts, these often in tatters from constant wear, britches of every
color and condition, cowhide shoes and moccasins, and on their
heads, old broad-brimmed felt hats, weathered and sweat-stained,
beaver hats, farmer’s straw hats, or striped bandannas tied sailor-
fashion. The tricorn, a dressier hat, was more likely to be worn by
officers and others of higher status, such as chaplains and doctors.
Only here and there might an old regimental coat be seen,
something left over from the French and Indian War.
 
The arms they bore were “as various as their costumes,” mainly
muskets and fowling pieces (in effect, shotguns), and the more
ancient the gun, it seemed, the greater the owner’s pride in it. The
most common and by far the most important was the flintlock
musket, a single-shot, smooth-bore, muzzle-loading weapon that
threw a lead ball weighing about an ounce and which could inflict
terrible damage. The average musket measured 5 feet and weighed
about 10 pounds. Though not especially accurate, it could be
primed, loaded, fired, and rapidly reloaded and fired again. A good
musket man could get off three to four rounds per minute, or a shot
every fifteen seconds.

Page 46
Page 46
The trouble now was that so many of the men, accustomed to
firearms since childhood, used them any way they saw fit, almost
any time they pleased—to start fires, for example, or blast away at
wild geese.
 
In order that officers could be distinguished from those in the
ranks, Washington directed that major generals wear purple ribbons
across their chests, brigadiers, pink ribbons. Field officers were to be
identified by different-colored cockades in their hats. Sergeants were
to tie a red cloth to their right shoulders. Washington himself chose
to wear a light blue ribbon across his chest, between coat and
waistcoat. But then there was never any mistaking the impeccably
uniformed, commanding figure of Washington, who looked always as
if on parade.
 
The day he officially took command at Cambridge, July 3, had
been marked by appropriate martial fanfare, “a great deal of
grandeur,” as Lieutenant Hodgkins, the Ipswich cobbler, recorded,
“one and twenty drummers and as many fifers a beating and playing
round the parade [ground].” A young newly arrived doctor from
Barnstable, James Thacher, assigned to the army’s hospital at
Cambridge, described seeing the commander-in-chief for the first
time:
 
His Excellency was on horseback, in company with
several military gentlemen. It was not difficult to distinguish
him from all others. His personal appearance is truly noble
and majestic, being tall and well proportioned. His dress is
a blue coat with buff colored facings, a rich epaulet on each
shoulder, buff underdress, and an elegant small sword, a
black cockade in his hat.
 
The great majority of the army were farmers and skilled artisans:
shoemakers, saddlers, carpenters, wheelwrights, blacksmiths,
coopers, tailors, and ship chandlers. Colonel John Glover’s regiment

Page 47
Page 47
from Marblehead, who were destined to play as important a part as
any, were nearly all sailors and fishermen.
 
It was an army of men accustomed to hard work, hard work being
the common lot. They were familiar with adversity and making do in
a harsh climate. Resourceful, handy with tools, they could drive a
yoke of oxen or “hove up” a stump or tie a proper knot as readily as
butcher a hog or mend a pair of shoes. They knew from experience,
most of them, the hardships and setbacks of life. Preparing for the
worst was second nature. Rare was the man who had never seen
someone die.
 
To be sure, an appreciable number had no trade. They were
drifters, tavern lowlife, some, the dregs of society. But by and large
they were good, solid citizens—as “worthy people as ever marched
out of step,” as would be said—married men with families who
depended on them and with whom they tried to keep contact as best
they could.
 
It was the first American army and an army of everyone, men of
every shape and size and makeup, different colors, different
nationalities, different ways of talking, and all degrees of physical
condition. Many were missing teeth or fingers, pitted by smallpox or
scarred by past wars or the all-too-common hazards of life and toil in
the eighteenth century. Some were not even men, but smooth-faced
boys of fifteen or less.
 
One of the oldest and by far the most popular, was General Israel
Putnam, a hero of the Battle of Bunker Hill, who at fifty-seven was
known affectionately as “Old Put.” Rough, “thick-set,” “all bones and
muscles,” and leathery, with flowing gray locks and a head like a
cannonball, he was a Pomfret, Connecticut, farmer who had survived
hair-raising exploits fighting the French and Indians, shipwreck, even
a face-to-face encounter with a she-wolf in her den, if the stories
were to be believed. Old Put also spoke with a slight lisp and could
barely write his name. But, as said, Old Put feared nothing.

Page 48
Page 48
At the other extreme was little Israel Trask, who was all of ten.
Like the son of Lieutenant Jabez Fitch, Israel had volunteered with
his father, Lieutenant Jonathan Trask of Marblehead, and served as
messenger and cook’s helper.
 
John Greenwood, a fifer—one of the more than 500 fifers and
drummers in the army—was sixteen, but small for his age and
looked younger. Born and raised in Boston, he had grown up with
“the troubles” always close to home. A young apprentice living in his
house had been one of those killed in the Boston Massacre. Thrilled
by the sound of the fifes and drums of the regulars occupying the
city, John had somehow acquired “an old split fife,” upon which, after
puttying up the crack, he learned to play several tunes before being
sent to live with an uncle in Falmouth (Portland), Maine. In May
1775, hearing the news of Lexington and Concord, he had set off on
foot with little more than the clothes on his back, his fife protruding
from a front pocket. All alone he walked to Boston, 150 miles through
what was still, much of the route, uninhabited wilderness. Stopping
at wayside taverns, where troops were gathered, he would bring out
the fife and play “a tune or two,” as he would later recall.
 
They used to ask me where I came from and where I
was going to, and when I told them I was going to fight for
my country, they were astonished such a little boy, and
alone, should have such courage. Thus by the help of my
fife I lived, as it were, on what is usually called free quarters
nearly upon the entire route.
 
After reaching the army encampments, he was urged to enlist,
with the promise of $8 a month. Later, passing through Cambridge,
he learned of the battle raging at Bunker Hill. Wounded men were
being laid out on the Common. “Everywhere the greatest terror and
confusion seemed to prevail.” The boy started running along the
road that led to the battle, past wagons carrying more casualties and
wounded men struggling back to Cambridge on foot. Terrified, he

Page 49
Page 49
wished he had never enlisted. “I could positively feel my hair stand
on end.” But then he saw a lone soldier coming down the road.
 
…a Negro man, wounded in the back of his neck,
passed me and, his collar being open and he not having
anything on except his shirt and trousers, I saw the wound
quite plainly and the blood running down his back. I asked
him if it hurt him much, as he did not seem to mind it. He
said no, that he was only to get a plaster put on it and
meant to return. You cannot conceive what encouragement
this immediately gave me. I began to feel brave and like a
soldier from that moment, and fear never troubled me
afterward during the whole war.
 
In response to concerns in Congress over how much of the army
was in fact made up of old men and boys, as well as Negroes and
Indians, General William Heath reported:
 
There are in the Massachusetts regiments some few
lads and old men, and in several regiments, some Negroes.
Such is also the case with the regiments from the other
colonies. Rhode Island has a number of Negroes and
Indians. The New Hampshire regiments have less of both.
 
General John Thomas, who commanded the Massachusetts
troops at Roxbury, also responded:
 
The regiments at Roxbury, the privates, are equal to any
I served with [in the] last war, very few old men, and in the
ranks very few boys. Our fifers are many of them boys. We
have some Negroes, but I look upon them in general
equally serviceable with other men, for fatigue and in
action; many of them have proved themselves brave.
 
Like most southerners, Washington did not want blacks in the
army and would soon issue orders saying that neither “Negroes,

Page 50
Page 50
boys unable to bear arms, nor old men” were to be enlisted. By
year’s end, however, with new recruits urgently needed and numbers
of free blacks wanting to serve, he would change his mind and in a
landmark general order authorize their enlistment.
 
While no contemporary drawings or paintings of individual
soldiers have survived, a fair idea of how they looked emerges from
the descriptions in notices posted of deserters. One George
Reynolds of Rhode Island, as an example, was five feet nine and a
half inches tall, age seventeen, and “carried his head something on
his right shoulder.” Thomas Williams was an immigrant—“an old
country man”—who spoke “good English” and had “a film in his left
eye.” David Relph, a “saucy fellow,” was wearing a white coat, jacket
and breeches, and ruffled shirt when last seen.
 
Deserted from Col. Brewer’s regiment, and Capt.
Harvey’s company [said a notice in the Essex,
Connecticut,Gazette ], one Simeon Smith of Greenfield, a
joiner by trade, a thin-spared fellow, about 5 feet 4 inches
high, had on a blue coat and black vest, a metal button on
his hat, black long hair, black eyes, his voice in the
hermaphrodite fashion, the masculine rather predominant.
Likewise, Mathias Smith, a small smart fellow, a saddler by
trade, gray headed, has a younger look in his face, is apt to
say, “I swear! I swear!” And between his words will spit
smart; had on a green coat, and an old red great coat; he is
a right gamester, although he wears something of a sober
look; likewise John Daby, a long hump-shouldered fellow, a
shoemaker by trade, drawls his words, and for comfortable
says comfable. He had a green coat, thick leather
breeches, slim legs, lost some of his fore teeth.
 
For every full-fledged deserter there were a half-dozen others
inclined to stroll off on almost any pretext, to do a little clam digging
perhaps, or who might vanish for several weeks to see wives and
children, help with the harvest at home, or ply their trades for some

Page 51
Page 51
much-needed “hard money.” Sometimes they requested a furlough;
as often they just up and left, only to come straggling back into camp
when it suited. It was not that they had no heart for soldiering, or
were wanting in spirit. They simply had had little experience with
other people telling them what to do every hour of the day. Having
volunteered to fight, they failed to see the sense in a lot of fuss over
rules and regulations.
 
*** 
 
IT WAS MIDSUMMER by the time the first troops from outside
New England began showing up, companies of riflemen from
Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia, “hardy men, many of them
exceeding six feet in height,” noted Dr. James Thacher, who was
himself short and slight.
 
One Virginia company, led by Captain Daniel Morgan, had
marched on a “bee-line” for Boston, covering six hundred miles in
three weeks, or an average of thirty miles a day in the heat of
summer.
 
Mostly backwoodsmen of Scotch-Irish descent, they wore long,
fringed hunting shirts, “rifle shirts” of homespun linen, in colors
ranging from undyed tan and gray to shades of brown and even
black, these tied at the waist with belts carrying tomahawks. At a
review they demonstrated how, with their long-barreled rifles, a
frontier weapon made in Pennsylvania and largely unknown in New
England, they could hit a mark seven inches in diameter at a
distance of 250 yards, while the ordinary musket was accurate at
only 100 yards or so. It was “rifling”—spiraled grooves inside the
long barrel—that increased the accuracy, and the new men began
firing at British sentries with deadly effect, until the British caught on
and kept their heads down or stayed out of range.
 
Welcome as they were at first, the riflemen soon proved even
more indifferent to discipline than the New Englanders, and

Page 52
Page 52
obstreperous to the point that Washington began to wish they had
never come.
 
Work on defenses went on steadily, the troops toiling with picks
and shovels in all weather, sometimes working through the night
when the heat of day was too severe. It was endless, brute labor, but
they were remarkably proficient at it—far more so than their British
counterparts. As the size and reach of the defenses increased,
visitors by the hundreds came to see for themselves. Roads were
crowded with spectators to whom the giant ramparts were wondrous
works. Nothing on such scale had ever been built by New
Englanders before—breastworks “in many places seventeen feet in
thickness,” trenches “wide and deep,” “verily their fortifications
appear to be the works of seven years.”
 
The work parties were fired on from time to time. British and
American sentries alike were fired on repeatedly. On August 2, as
Lieutenant Samuel Bixby of Connecticut recorded in his diary, “One
of Gen[eral] Washington’s riflemen was killed by the regulars today
and then hung! up by the neck!”
 
His comrades, seeing this, were much enraged and
immediately asked leave of the Gen[eral] to go down and
do as they pleased. The riflemen marched immediately and
began operations. The regulars fired at them from all parts
with cannon and swivels, but the riflemen skulked about,
and kept up their sharp shooting all day. Many of the
regulars fell, but the riflemen lost only one man.
 
Both sides staged sporadic night raids on the other’s lines, or
launched forays to capture hay and livestock from nearby harbor
islands. The night of August 30, the British made a surprise breakout
at the Neck, set fire to a tavern, and withdrew back to their defenses.
The same night, three hundred Americans attacked Lighthouse
Island, killed several of the enemy, and took twenty-three prisoners,
with the loss of one American soldier.

Page 53
Page 53
Night was the time for “frolicking,” remembered John Greenwood,
the fifer, “as the British were constantly sending bombs at us, and
sometimes from two to six at a time could be seen in the air
overhead, looking like moving stars in the heavens.” Some early-
morning British bombardments lasted several hours, the British
clearly having no shortage of powder. In one furious cannonade from
the British works on Bunker Hill, a rifleman lost a leg and a company
clerk with Nathanael Greene’s Kentish Guards, Augustus Mumford,
had his head blown off.
 
Mumford was the first Rhode Island casualty of the war, and the
horror of his death moved Nathanael Greene as nothing had since
the siege began. To his wife “Caty,” who was pregnant with their first
child, Greene wrote that he wished she could be spared such news
and any fears she had for his own safety.
 
British deserters kept crossing the lines, usually at night and
alone, but sometimes three or four together. Half-starved and
disgruntled, they came from both Boston and from the British ships
in harbor, and nearly always with bits of news or descriptions of their
travails, word of which would spread rapidly through the camps the
next day. One night a lone British lighthorseman swam his horse
across. Another night, fifteen men deserted the ships in the harbor.
 
Then days would follow without incident, one day like another. An
officer with a company of Pennsylvania riflemen wrote of nothing to
do but pick blueberries and play cricket. “Nothing of note…. Nothing
important…. All quiet,” Lieutenant Bixby of Connecticut recorded. On
the other side, a British diarist drearily echoed the same refrain,
writing, “Nothing extraordinary…. Nothing extraordinary,” day after
day.
 
Washington kept expecting the British to attack and failed to
understand why they would delay, if an end to the rebellion was what
they wanted.

Page 54
Page 54
By the close of summer, with increasing losses from disease,
desertions, and absences of one sort or other, his army was in
serious decline. Spirits suffered. The patriotic fervor that had sent
thousands rushing to the scene in late April and May was hardly
evident any longer.
 
It was not just that the army was shrinking; it was due to
disappear entirely in a matter of months, the troops having signed on
to serve only until the end of the year. The Connecticut enlistments
would be up even sooner.
 
It had been the common expectation that the rising of such an
armed force as gathered outside Boston would cause the British to
think again and reach an accommodation. A short campaign had
been anticipated by nearly everyone, including Washington, who had
told his wife he would be home by fall.
 
There were still too few tents, still a shortage of blankets and
clothing, and no one had forgotten that winter was on the way.
Farmers and soldiers knew about weather. Weather could be the
great determiner between failure and success, the great test of one’s
staying power.
 
In truth, the situation was worse than they realized, and no one
perceived this as clearly as Washington. Seeing things as they were,
and not as he would wish them to be, was one of his salient
strengths.
 
He knew how little money was at hand, and he understood as did
no one else the difficulties of dealing with Congress. He knew how
essential it was to the future effectiveness of the army to break down
regional differences and biases among the troops. But at the same
time he struggled with his own mounting contempt for New
Englanders. Writing to Lund Washington, a cousin and his business
manager at home at Mount Vernon, he railed against the Yankees as

Page 55
Page 55
“exceeding dirty and nasty,” nothing like what he had expected. He
had only contempt for “these people,” he confided in a letter to
Congressman Richard Henry Lee, another fellow Virginian. The
heart of the problem was an “unaccountable kind of stupidity in the
lower class of these people, which believe me prevails but too
generally among the officers…who are ne[ar]ly of the same kidney
with the privates.” All such officers desired was to “curry favor with
the men” and thereby get reelected.
 
Still, he allowed, if properly led, the army would undoubtedly fight.
And in a letter to General Philip Schuyler, who was in command at
Albany, Washington insisted—possibly to rally his own resolve—that
they must never lose sight of “the goodness of our cause.”
Difficulties were not insurmountable. “Perseverance and spirit have
done wonders in all ages.”
 
II
Contents - Prev / Next
 
ON FIRST ARRIVING IN CAMBRIDGE, Washington had been
offered the home of the president of Harvard, Samuel Langdon, for
his residence. But finding it too cramped for his needs and those of
his staff (his military “family”), the general moved a few days later to
one of the largest, most elegant houses in town, a gray clapboard
Georgian mansion half a mile from the college on the King’s
Highway. Three stories tall, with an unobstructed view of the Charles
River, it belonged to a wealthy Loyalist, John Vassall, who, fearing
for his life and the lives of his family, had abandoned the place, fine
furnishings and all, to take refuge in Boston. For Washington, who
had a fondness for handsome architecture and river views, the
house suited perfectly and would serve as his command
headquarters through the siege, with his office established in a
drawing room off the front hall.

Page 56
Page 56
The house became a hive of activity, with people coming and
going at all hours. It was there that Washington conferred with his
highest-ranking officers, convened his councils of war, and, with staff
help, coped with numberless problems of organization, issued
orders, and labored over correspondence—paperwork without end,
letters to Congress, appeals to the governors of the New England
states, and the legislature of Massachusetts. There, too, he received
or entertained local dignitaries and politicians and their wives, always
in elegant fashion, as was both his pleasure and part of the role he
felt he must play. And as with everything connected with that role—
his uniform, the house, his horses and equipage, the military dress
and bearing of his staff—appearances were of great importance: a
leader must look and act the part.
 
To judge by surviving household accounts, Virginia hospitality
more than lived up to its reputation at Cambridge. Purchases
included quantities of beef, lamb, roasting pig, wild ducks, geese,
turtle, and a variety of fresh fish, of which Washington was especially
fond; plums, peaches, barrels of cider, brandy and rum by the gallon,
and limes by the hundreds, these to fend off scurvy. One entry
accounts for payment to a man named Simon Lovett “for carting a
load of liquor from Beverly.”
 
The domestic staff included a steward, two cooks (one of whom
was French), a kitchen maid, a washerwoman, eight others whose
duties were not specified and included several slaves, plus a
personal tailor for the commander, one Giles Alexander.
Washington’s body servant, a black slave named William (“Billy”)
Lee, was his steady companion. Riding with Washington on his
rounds of the defenses, Billy Lee became a familiar figure, a large
spyglass in a leather case slung over one shoulder.
 
As apparent to all, His Excellency was in the prime of life. A
strapping man of commanding presence, he stood six feet two
inches tall and weighed perhaps 190 pounds. His hair was reddish
brown, his eyes gray-blue, and the bridge of his prominent nose

Page 57
Page 57
unusually wide. The face was largely unlined, but freckled and sun-
beaten and slightly scarred by smallpox. A few “defective teeth” were
apparent when he smiled.
 
He carried himself like a soldier and sat a horse like the perfect
Virginia gentleman. It was the look and bearing of a man
accustomed to respect and to being obeyed. He was not austere.
There was no hint of arrogance. “Amiable” and “modest” were words
frequently used to describe him, and there was a softness in his
eyes that people remembered. Yet he had a certain distance in
manner that set him off from, or above, others.
 
“Be easy…but not too familiar,” he advised his officers, “lest you
subject yourself to a want of that respect, which is necessary to
support a proper command.”
 
It was a philosophy unfamiliar to most Yankees, who saw nothing
inappropriate about a captain shaving one of his soldiers, or rough-
hewn General Putnam standing in line for his rations along with
everyone else. Nor was it easy for Putnam and others of the older
officers to change their ways. On one occasion, surveying the work
on defenses by horseback, Putnam paused to ask a soldier to throw
a large rock in the path up onto the parapet. “Sir, I am a corporal,”
the soldier protested. “Oh, I ask your pardon, sir,” said the general,
who dismounted and threw the rock himself, to the delight of all
present.
 
The Philadelphia physician and patriot Benjamin Rush, a staunch
admirer, observed that Washington “has so much martial dignity in
his deportment that you would distinguish him to be a general and a
soldier from among 10,000 people. There is not a king in Europe that
would not look like a valet de chambre by his side.”
 
A Connecticut delegate to the Continental Congress, Eliphalet
Dyer, who had heartily joined in the unanimous decision to make
Washington the commander-in-chief, judged him to be no “harum

Page 58
Page 58
scarum” fellow. John Adams, who had put Washington’s name in
nomination for the command, described him in a letter to his wife
Abigail as amiable and brave. “This appointment,” wrote Adams, “will
have great effect in cementing and securing the union of these
colonies,” and he prophesied that Washington could become “one of
the most important characters in the world.” After meeting the
general herself for the first time, as a guest at one of his social
occasions at Cambridge, Abigail wrote to tell her husband he had
hardly said enough.
 
Washington’s effect on the troops and young officers was striking.
“Joy was visible on every countenance,” according to Nathanael
Greene, “and it seemed as if the spirit of conquest breathed through
the whole army.”
 
I hope we shall be taught to copy his example and to
prefer the love of liberty in this time of public danger to all
the soft pleasures of domestic life and support ourselves
with manly fortitude amidst all the dangers and hardships
that attend a state of war.
 
Joseph Reed, a young man with a long jaw and a somewhat
quizzical look in his eyes, was a charming, London-trained
Philadelphia lawyer who had been chosen as part of an honorary
escort when Washington departed Philadelphia for his new
command. Reed had intended to ride only as far as New York, but
found himself so in awe of the general that he continued on to
Cambridge to become Washington’s secretary, despite the fact that
he had made no provisions for his wife and three young children or
for his law practice. As Reed explained, Washington had “expressed
himself to me in such terms that I thought myself bound by every tie
of duty and honor to comply with his request to help him through the
sea of difficulties.”
 
Few would ever provide a more succinct description of
Washington’s particular hold on men.

Page 59
Page 59
BORN IN TIDEWATER VIRGINIA on February 11, 1732 (by the
Old Style calendar), George Washington was the great-grandson of
John Washington, who had emigrated from Northampton, England,
in 1657. His father, Augustine Washington, was a tobacco planter
also known for his “noble appearance and manly proportions.” His
mother, Mary Bell, was widowed when Washington was eleven.
Because of the family’s reduced circumstances, he had had little
education—only seven or eight years of schooling by private tutor,
no training in Latin or Greek or law, as had so many prominent
Virginia patriots—and, as those close to him knew, he was self-
conscious about this.
 
By steady application he had learned to write in a clear, strong
hand and to express himself on paper with force and clarity. He
learned to dance—Virginians loved to dance and he was no
exception—and he learned to comport himself in the elaborately
polite society of the day with perfect manners and polish. (Of the
110Rules of Civility and Decent Behavior in Company and
Conversation that he had laboriously copied down as a boy, Rule
Number One read: “Every action done in company ought to be with
some sign of respect to those who are present.”) He enjoyed parties
and particularly the company of attractive women. As would be said
of British officers, he “liked his glass, his lass, his game of cards,”
though gambling never became the obsession it was for so many of
his counterparts on the British side.
 
The great teacher for Washington was experience. At age
sixteen, he had set out to make his way in the world, as a surveyor’s
apprentice on an expedition into the wilderness of western Virginia,
over the Blue Ridge Mountains, and as years passed he spent more
time in the backcountry beyond the Blue Ridge than all but a few
from the Tidewater. In addition, surveying proved highly
remunerative.

Page 60
Page 60
In 1753, at twenty, he had been sent by the governor of Virginia
to the wilds of western Pennsylvania, to challenge French claims to
the Allegheny River valley, and publication of his diary of the venture,
The Journal of Major George Washington, made his daring and
resourcefulness known throughout the colonies and in Europe. A
year later, on his first command, inexperience and poor judgment led
to his famous encounter with French troops and Indians at Great
Meadows, in the same remote corner of western Pennsylvania—the
small, bloody backwoods incident, and first defeat for Washington,
that set in motion the conflict that ultimately involved much of the
world.
 
“I heard the bullets whistle; and believe me there is something
charming in the sound,” he had written in a letter printed later in the
London Magazine, which could be taken as the bravado of a callow
youth, but, as he had found, he was one of those rare few who,
under fire, were without fear.
 
As a provincial officer fighting with the British army during
General Edward Braddock’s defeat in western Pennsylvania, he had
shown conspicuous courage under fire and a marked ability for
leadership. If, as a young officer, he seemed at times flagrantly,
unattractively ambitious, he had long since overcome that. In 1759,
spurned in his desire for a royal commission, he had “retired” at age
twenty-seven to the life of a Virginia planter and, that same year,
married Martha Dandridge Custis of Williamsburg, an attractive,
extremely wealthy widow with two children, to whom he gave full
devotion. The children, John Parke Custis and Patsy, were treated
quite as though they were his own. Indeed, one of the worst
tragedies of Washington’s life had been the death of seventeen-year-
old Patsy of an epileptic fit in 1773.
 
Like other planters of the Tidewater, Washington embraced a life
very like that of the English gentry. English by ancestry, he was, in
dress, manner, and his favorite pastimes, as close to being an
English country gentleman as was possible for an American of the

Page 61
Page 61
day, and intentionally. His handsome green coach with its brass
fittings and leather lining had been custom built in England to his
specifications. He ordered his clothes from England, and only the
finest English wools and linens and latest fashions would do. He
wore English boots, English shoes, and Morocco leather slippers, all
made to order for him in London. The books on his shelves,
including the military treatises, were published in London. The very
glass in the windows through which he viewed his domain was
imported English glass.
 
Only the year before taking command at Cambridge, Washington
had commenced an ambitious expansion of his Virginia home,
Mount Vernon, which, when completed, would double its size. He
was adding a library and building a two-story dining room, or
banquet hall, suitable for entertaining on a grand scale. He was a
builder by nature. He had a passion for architecture and landscape
design, and Mount Vernon was his creation, everything done to his
own ideas and plans. How extremely important all this was to him
and the pleasure he drew from it, few people ever understood.
 
He had an abiding dislike of disorder and cared intensely about
every detail—wallpaper, paint color, ceiling ornaments—and insisted
on perfection. He hated to be away from the project. Even at the
distance of Cambridge, with all that weighed on his mind, he worried
that things were not being handled as he wished at Mount Vernon
and filled pages of instruction for his manager, Lund Washington.
 
I wish you would quicken Lanphire and Sears [the
carpenters] about the dining room chimney piece (to be
executed as mentioned in one of my last letters) as I could
wish to have that end of the house completely finished
before I return. I wish you had done the end of the new
kitchen next the garden, as also the old kitchen, with
rusticated boards; however, as it is not, I would have the
corners done so in the manner of our new church…. What

Page 62
Page 62
have you done with the well? Is that walled up? Have you
any acc[oun]ts of the painter?
 
Second only to his passion for architecture and landscape design
was a love of the theater, which again was quite characteristic of
Virginians. He had seen his first known theatrical production at age
nineteen on a trip with his older brother to Barbados. It was the first
and only time Washington had ever been beyond American shores
and the place where he was “strongly attacked” by smallpox. Later,
at Williamsburg, as a member of the Virginia legislature, he had
attended the theater regularly. During a visit to Annapolis, he
recorded going to “the play” four nights out of five. In New York later
he attended the theater seven times and saw his first production of
Hamlet.
 
But of all the theatrical productions he had seen it was Cato, by
the English author Joseph Addison, the most popular play of the
time, that Washington loved best. One line in particular he was to
think of or quote frequently in his role now as commander-in-chief:
“’Tis not in mortals to command success, but we’ll do more,
Sempronius, we’ll deserve it.”
 
Though Washington was often said to be the richest man in
America, he probably did not rank among the ten richest. He was
very wealthy, nonetheless, and in large part because of his marriage
to Martha Custis. His wealth was in land, upwards of 54,000 acres,
including some 8,000 acres at Mount Vernon, another 4,000 acres in
Virginia’s Dismal Swamp, nearly all of which he had acquired for
speculation. In addition, he owned more than one hundred slaves,
another measure of great wealth, whose labors made possible his
whole way of life.
 
In a popular English novel of the day, The Expedition of
Humphrey Clinker, Tobias Smollett wrote that to be a country
gentleman one was “obliged to keep horses, hounds, carriages, with
suitable numbers of servants, and maintain an elegant table for the

Page 63
Page 63
entertainment of his neighbors.” It could have been a description of
life at Mount Vernon, with the difference that the servants were black
slaves.
 
Among the Virginia gentry who had taken up fox hunting with an
exuberance no less than to be found on the country estates of
England, Washington stood out. Thomas Jefferson considered him
“the best horseman of his age.” That Washington was known to hunt
up to seven hours straight, riding as close to the hounds as possible,
“leaping fences, and going extremely quick,” and always to the end,
to be in on the kill, was considered not only a measure of his love of
the chase and his exceptional physical stamina, but also of his
uncommon, unrelenting determination.
 
Billy Lee, the body servant, rode with him, rode like the wind by
all accounts, and no less fearlessly than his master.
 
“Found a fox in Mr. Phil Alexander’s island which was lost after a
chase of seven hours,” Washington recorded in his diary at the end
of one winter day in 1772, but he did not give up, as shown in his
entry for the day following: “Found a fox in the same place again
which was killed at the end of 6 hours.”
 
An English sporting writer of a later era would describe fox
hunting as “the image of war without its guilt and only half its
danger.” In some years, according to Washington’s own records, the
days he devoted to fox hunting added up to a month. He kept
precise account of exactly how long each chase lasted, to the
minute. Again, he was a man who loved precision in everything.
 
Stories were told of extraordinary feats of strength—how, for
example, Washington had thrown a stone from the bed of a stream
to the top of Virginia’s famous Natural Bridge, a height of 215 feet.
The Philadelphia artist Charles Willson Peale, who had been a guest
at Mount Vernon in 1772 while painting Washington’s portrait,
described how he and several other young men were on the lawn

Page 64
Page 64
throwing an iron bar for sport, when Washington appeared and,
without bothering to remove his coat, took a turn, throwing it “far,
very far beyond our utmost limit.”
 
Washington’s wealth and way of life, like his physique and
horsemanship, were of great importance to large numbers of the
men he led and among many in Congress. The feeling was that if he,
George Washington, who had so much, was willing to risk “his all,”
however daunting the odds, then who were they to equivocate. That
he was also serving without pay was widely taken as further
evidence of the genuineness of his commitment.
 
There were, to be sure, those in the ranks and among the local
populace who had little fondness for Virginia planters and their high-
and-mighty airs, or who saw stunning incongruity in the cause of
liberty being led by a slavemaster.
 
It was also a matter of record that Washington had been retired
from military life for fifteen years, during which he had not even
drilled a militia company. His only prior experience had been in
backwoods warfare—a very different kind of warfare—and most
notably in the Braddock campaign of 1755, which had been a
disaster. He was by no means an experienced commander. He had
never led an army in battle, never before commanded anything
larger than a regiment. And never had he directed a siege.
 
Washington was quite aware of his limitations. In formal
acceptance of the new command, on June 16, 1775, standing at his
place in Congress, he had addressed John Hancock:
 
I am truly sensible of the high honor done me in this
appointment, yet I feel great distress from a consciousness
that my abilities and military experience may not be equal to
the extensive and important trust. However, as the
Congress desire i[t], I will enter upon the momentous duty,

Page 65
Page 65
and exert every power I possess in their service and for the
support of the glorious Cause.
 
He knew he might not succeed, and he gave Congress fair
warning:
 
But lest some unlucky event should happen unfavorable
to my reputation, I beg it may be remembered by every
gentleman in the room that I this day declare with the
utmost sincerity, I do not think myself equal to the command
I [am] honored with.
 
To his wife Martha he wrote that “far from seeking this
appointment, I have used every endeavor in my power to avoid it,
not only from my unwillingness to part with you and the family, but
from a consciousness of its being a trust too great for my capacity….
it has been a kind of destiny that has thrown me upon this
service….”
 
Yet he had attended Congress in his splendid blue and buff
uniform, conspicuously signaling a readiness to take command. If he
saw the responsibility as too great for his ability, it was because he
had a realistic idea of how immense that responsibility would be. For
such a trust, to lead an undisciplined, poorly armed volunteer force
of farmers and tradesmen against the best-trained, best-equipped,
most formidable military force on earth—and with so much riding on
the outcome—was, in reality, more than any man was qualified for.
 
But he knew also that someone had to take command, and
however impossible the task and the odds, he knew he was better
suited than any of the others Congress might have in mind.
 
Without question, Congress had made the right choice, and not
the least of reasons was political. As a Virginian, Washington
represented the richest, most populous of the thirteen colonies. He
himself had had years of political experience in the Virginia

Page 66
Page 66
legislature and as a member of the Continental Congress. It was as
one of them that the members of Congress knew him best and
respected him, not as a general. He knew the ways of politics and
factious politicians. He understood how the system worked. For all
the delays and frustrations, however severe the tests of patience he
was to suffer in his dealings with them and the system, he never
forgot that Congress held the ultimate power, that he, the
commander-in-chief, was the servant of some fifty-six delegates
who, in far-off Philadelphia, unlike Parliament, met in secrecy.
 
III
Contents - Prev / Next
 
IN THE FIRST DAYS OF SEPTEMBER, Washington began
drawing up plans for two bold moves.
 
He had decided to carry the war into Canada with a surprise
attack on the British at Quebec. A thousand men from the ranks
longing for action volunteered at once. Led by an aggressive
Connecticut colonel named Benedict Arnold, they were to advance
on Quebec across the Maine wilderness, taking a northeastern route
up the Kennebec River. Hastily conceived, this “secret expedition”
was based on too little knowledge of the terrain, but in small units the
men began marching off for Newburyport, north of Boston, from
where they would sail by sloop and schooner to the mouth of the
Kennebec.
 
He felt he could detach a thousand troops this way, Washington
informed Congress, because he had concluded, from intelligence
gathered from spies and British deserters, that the enemy in Boston
had no intention of launching an attack until they were reinforced.
 
His second plan was to end the waiting and strike at Boston,
which, it was understood, could mean destruction of the town. British

Page 67
Page 67
defenses were formidable. In fact, defenses on both sides had been
strengthened to the point where many believed neither army would
dare attack the other. Also, a siege by definition required a great deal
of prolonged standing still and waiting. But standing still and waiting
were not the way to win a war, and not in Washington’s nature.
 
“The inactive state we lie in is exceedingly disagreeable,” he had
confided to his brother John. He wanted a “speedy finish,” to fight
and be done with it. “No danger is to be considered when put in
competition with the magnitude of the cause,” he had asserted
earlier in a letter to the governor of Rhode Island.
 
According to his instructions from Congress, he was to take no
action of consequence until advising with his council of war, and thus
a meeting was scheduled for the morning of September 11, “to
know,” he informed his generals, “whether in your judgments, we
cannot make a successful attack upon the troops in Boston, by
means of boats.”
 
On September 10, mutiny broke out among the Pennsylvania
riflemen, after several of the worst troublemakers had been confined
to the guardhouse. Though the mutiny was put down at once by
General Greene and a large detachment of Rhode Island troops, it
only added to the sense of an army coming apart, and Washington
was visibly shaken.
 
The council of war convened in his office as scheduled the next
morning—three major generals, including the venerable Israel
Putnam, and four brigadiers. All were New Englanders but one,
Major General Charles Lee, who was Washington’s second-in-
command and the only professional soldier present. A former British
officer and veteran of the French and Indian War, Lee, like
Washington, had fought in the ill-fated Braddock campaign and later
settled in Virginia. He was a spare, odd-looking man with a long,
hooked nose and dark, bony face. Rough in manner, rough of

Page 68
Page 68
speech, he had nothing of Washington’s dignity. Even in uniform he
looked perpetually unkempt.
 
Lee might have been a character out of an English novel, such
were his eccentricities and colorful past. He had once been married
to an Indian woman, the daughter of a Seneca chief. He had served
gallantly with the British army in Spain, and as aide-de-camp to the
King of Poland. Like Frederick the Great, he made a flamboyant
show of his love for dogs, keeping two or three with him most of the
time. A New Hampshire clergyman, Jeremy Belknap, after dining
with the general in Cambridge, thought him “an odd genius…a great
sloven, wretchedly profane, and a great admirer of dogs, one of
them a native of Pomerania, which I should have taken for a bear
had I seen him in the woods.”
 
Lee was also self-assured, highly opinionated, moody, and ill-
tempered (his Indian name was Boiling Water), and he was thought
by many to have the best military mind of any of the generals, a view
he openly shared. Washington considered him “the first officer in
military knowledge and experience we have in the whole army,” and
it was at Washington’s specific request that Congress had made Lee
second-in-command.
 
Whatever opinions Lee had of Washington, he kept to himself,
except to remark that he thought the appellation “Excellency”
perfectly absurd.
 
In striking contrast to Lee was Major General Artemus Ward, a
heavy-set, pious-looking Massachusetts farmer, storekeeper, justice
of the peace, and veteran of the French and Indian War, who had
had overall command of the siege of Boston prior to Washington’s
arrival. Ward was considered “a good man, a thorough New England
man,” though uninspiring. General Lee privately called him a “fat, old
church warden” with “no acquaintance whatever with military
matters.” But if unspectacular, Ward was competent, thoughtful, and
not without good sense, as time would show.

Page 69
Page 69
Washington had assigned Lee to command the left wing of the
army, Putnam, the center, while Ward was responsible for the right
wing, which included Dorchester. As early as July 9, at Washington’s
first council of war, it had been proposed that the army take
possession of Dorchester Heights, but the idea was unanimously
rejected. Ward, however, refused to drop the subject. When in
August he again recommended that an effort be made to fortify the
Heights, again nothing was done.
 
The brigadiers present now were John Thomas and William
Heath of Massachusetts, John Sullivan of New Hampshire, Joseph
Spencer of Connecticut, and Nathanael Greene. Thomas was a
physician in his early fifties, tall and quiet-spoken. Heath, a much
younger man, was a fifth-generation Roxbury farmer, age thirty-eight,
who would affably describe himself in a memoir as “of middling
stature, light complexion, very corpulent, and bald-headed.” Sullivan,
a lawyer and politician in his mid-forties, had served with Washington
in the Continental Congress, and Spencer, who was older even than
Israel Putnam (his troops referred to him as “Granny”), would play
almost no part.
 
Of these New Englanders, all citizen-soldiers, Washington quickly
surmised that Thomas, Sullivan, and Greene were the best he had.
Thomas was the most commanding in appearance and had served
in the French and Indian War. Earlier, his pride hurt that the less
experienced Heath was to outrank him, Thomas had talked of
resigning, until Washington sent an urgent plea in which,
paraphrasing a line from his favorite playCato, he said that in such a
cause as they were engaged, “surely every post ought to be deemed
honorable in which a man can serve his country.”
 
His council assembled, Washington made the case for an all-out
amphibious assault on Boston, by sending troops across the shallow
Back Bay in flat-bottomed boats big enough to carry fifty men each.
He reminded the generals of what they already knew: that winter

Page 70
Page 70
was fast approaching and the troops were without barracks and
firewood; that men already eager to go home would be extremely
difficult to keep on duty once they felt the “severity of a northern
winter.” When enlistments expired, the disbanding of one army
before another was assembled could mean ruin. Gunpowder was
still in short supply, but there was enough at hand to mount an
attack. Of course, “the hazard, the loss of men in the attempt and the
probable consequences of failure” had also to be considered.
 
There was discussion of these and other points, including the
enemy’s defenses, after which it was agreed unanimously not to
attack, not for the “present at least.”
 
It was a sound decision. The “hazard” was far too great, the
chance of disastrous failure all too real. Casualties could have been
horrendous. Unless they caught the tide exactly right, the men in the
boats could have been stranded on mudflats a hundred yards or
more from dry ground and forced to struggle through knee-deep
muck while under withering fire. The slaughter could have been quite
as horrible as that of the British at Bunker Hill.
 
In fact, such a headlong attack on their works was exactly what
the British generals were hoping for, certain that if the Americans
were to be so foolhardy, it would mean the end of the rebellion.
 
In restraining Washington, the council had proven its value. For
the “present at least,” discretion was truly the better part of valor.
 
Washington accepted the decision, but work on the flat-bottomed
boats continued, and in a long letter to John Hancock, he made the
case for a “decisive stroke,” adding, “I cannot say that I have wholly
laid it aside.” Many in Congress, he sensed, were as impatient as he
with the stalemate. “The state of inactivity, in which this army has lain
for some time, by no means corresponds with my wishes, by some
decisive stroke, to relieve my country from the heavy expense its
subsistence must create.”

Page 71
Page 71
As Washington also reminded Hancock—and thus Congress—
his war chest was empty. The fact that the troops had not been paid
for weeks did not help morale or alleviate hardships at home. “The
paymaster has not a single dollar in hand.”
 
Money at least was on the way. On September 29, $500,000 in
Continental bills from Philadelphia were delivered to the
headquarters at Cambridge, and in a few days thousands of troops
were at last receiving some pay. “I send you eleven dollars,”
Lieutenant Joseph Hodgkins wrote to his wife Sarah on October 6.
His monthly pay was $13.
 
*** 
 
ASKED WHAT THEY WERE FIGHTING FOR, most of the army
—officers and men in the ranks—would until now have said it was in
defense of their country and of their rightful liberties as freeborn
Englishmen. It was to “defend our common rights” that he went to
war, Nathanael Greene had told his wife. The British regulars, the
hated redcoats, were the “invaders” and must be repelled. “We are
soldiers who devote ourselves to arms not for the invasion of other
countries but for the defense of our own, not for the gratification of
our own private interest, but for the public security,” Greene had
written in another letter to Samuel Ward. Writing to General Thomas,
Washington had said the object was “neither glory nor extent of
territory, but a defense of all that is dear and valuable in life.”
 
Independence was not mentioned. Nor had independence been
on the minds of those who fought at Bunker Hill or in Washington’s
thoughts when he took command of the army. En route to
Cambridge from Philadelphia, he had been quite specific in assuring
the New York Provincial Congress that “every exertion of my worthy
colleagues and myself will be equally extended to the
reestablishment of peace and harmony between the mother country
and the colonies.”

Page 72
Page 72
But more and more of late there was talk of independence. The
Reverend Belknap, from his visits to the camps, concluded that
independence had “become a favorite point in the army.” A
“declaration of independence” was heartily wished for, wrote
Nathanael Greene, who was one of the first to say it in writing. “We
had as good to begin in earnest first as last.”
 
*** 
 
IN LATE SEPTEMBER, the discovery that the surgeon general of
the army and head of the hospital at Cambridge, Dr. Benjamin
Church, was a spy, the first American traitor, rocked everyone.
Church had been one of the local dignitaries who had escorted
Washington into Cambridge the day of his arrival. He was as
prominent and trustworthy a man as any in the province, it was
thought, a member of the Provincial Congress, poet, author, a
Harvard classmate of John Hancock, and an outspoken patriot. Yet
the whole time he had been secretly corresponding with the British in
cipher, and was in their pay.
 
His treachery had been discovered quite by chance. A
mysterious, enciphered letter carried by a young woman of
questionable morals had wound up in the hands of a friend of
Nathanael Greene, who brought the letter to Greene, who in turn
carried it directly to Washington. When the woman was
apprehended, she confessed she had been keeping company with
Church and said the letter was his. The letter was deciphered and
Church exposed. The whole army, indeed all New England and the
Congress at Philadelphia, were stunned. Who could say how many
other Dr. Churches there might be?
 
Church, who was tried, convicted, and imprisoned, kept insisting
he was innocent. Sent into exile, on a ship bound for the West
Indies, he disappeared at sea. Only years later did further evidence
come to light proving his guilt.

Page 73
Page 73
*** 
 
ON OCTOBER 18,a raw, gloomy Wednesday, a congressional
committee of three, including Benjamin Franklin, gathered by a
roaring fire in Washington’s study and, after lengthy deliberations
with the commander and his generals, concluded that if an attack on
Boston meant the destruction of the town, they could not approve.
 
At a meeting of the war council it was decided still again that the
risks were too great “under the circumstances,” as said Brigadier
General Horatio Gates, who had been absent from the previous
meeting. Like Charles Lee, Gates was an experienced, former British
officer.
 
“Things hereabouts remain in pretty much the same situation,”
wrote James Warren, president of the Massachusetts Assembly. “We
look at their lines and they view ours…. They want courage to attack
us and we want powder to attack them and so there is no attack on
either side.”
 
On October 24, a post rider from Maine brought news that British
ships had attacked and burned the defenseless town of Falmouth.
The townspeople had been given advance warning and
consequently no one was killed, but the entire population was
without homes on the eve of winter. The attack was decried as an
outrage, “proof of the diabolical designs” of the administration in
London, as Washington said.
 
At the same time, Washington was dealt a further setback when
his bright and by-now-indispensable secretary, Joseph Reed,
decided he could no longer delay a return to Philadelphia to see to
his affairs and look after his family. “You cannot but be sensible of
your importance to me…judge you therefore how much I wished for
your return,” Washington would tell the absent Reed in one of a
string of letters. “I miss you exceedingly; and if an express

Page 74
Page 74
declaration of this be wanting, to hasten your return, I make it most
heartily,” he wrote another day.
 
John Adams, who had come to know Reed in Philadelphia,
described him as “very sensible.”
“amiable,” even “tender,” and Washington felt much the same
way. To Reed, as to almost no one, he signed his letters not with the
standard “Your Obedient Servant,” but “Your Affectionate and
Obedient Servant.”
 
The days were turning “cold and blustering,” recorded the still
uncomplaining Lieutenant Jabez Fitch. The construction of barracks
had begun. Washington authorized an order for 10,000 cords of
firewood. With epidemic dysentery sweeping through the outlying
towns, Dr. Thacher worried over the numbers of ill soldiers in the
camps and crowding the hospital. To add further to the miseries of
camp life, local farmers were charging ever-higher prices.
 
Washington fumed over such absence of patriotism, his dislike of
New Englanders compounding by the day. Yet the faith of the local
populace and their leaders in him remained high. They understood
the adversities he faced and they were depending on him, no less
than Congress and patriots everywhere were depending on him. As
James Warren wrote to John Adams, “He is certainly the best man
for the place he is in, important as it is, that ever lived.”
 
Adams, who was acutely sensitive to the differences between
New Englanders and Virginians, having experienced firsthand in
Congress the distrust many from the middle and southern provinces
felt for New Englanders, had become gravely concerned about the
damage to the Cause such opinions and prejudices could have
should they get out of hand.
 
Gentlemen in other colonies have large plantations of
slaves, and…are accustomed, habituated to higher notions
of themselves and the distinction between them and the

Page 75
Page 75
common people than we are…. I dread the consequences
of this dissimilitude of character, and without the utmost
caution on both sides, and the most considerate
forbearance with one another and prudent condescension
on both sides, they will certainly be fatal.
 
Nathanael Greene felt certain that Washington only needed time
to make himself “acquainted with the genius” of the New England
troops.
 
Meanwhile, Washington put increasing trust in Greene, as well as
another impressive young New Englander, Henry Knox, to whom he
assigned one of the most difficult and crucial missions of the war.
 
*** 
 
COLONEL HENRY KNOX was hard not to notice. Six feet tall, he
bulked large, weighing perhaps 250 pounds. He had a booming
voice. He was gregarious, jovial, quick of mind, highly energetic
—“very fat, but very active”—and all of twenty-five.
 
“Town-born” in Boston, in a narrow house on Sea Street facing
the harbor, he was seventh of the ten sons of Mary Campbell and
William Knox, Scotch-Irish Presbyterians. When his father, a
shipmaster, disappeared in the West Indies, nine-year-old Henry
went to work to help support his mother, and was thus, like
Nathanael Greene, almost entirely self-educated. He became a
bookseller, eventually opening his own London Book Store on
Cornhill Street, offering a “large and very elegant assortment” of the
latest books and magazines from London. In the notices he placed in
the Boston Gazette, the name Henry Knox always appeared in larger
type than the name of the store.
 
Though not especially prosperous, the store became “a great
resort for British officers and Tory ladies.”

Page 76
Page 76
“a fashionable morning lounge,” and its large, genial proprietor
became one of the best-known young men in town. John Adams, a
frequent patron, remembered Knox as a youth “of pleasing manners
and inquisitive turn of mind.” Another patron was Nathanael Greene,
who not only shared Knox’s love of books, but also an interest in “the
military art,” and it was thus, on the eve of war, that an important
friendship had commenced.
 
Knox read all he could on gunnery and tactics, and, as Greene
had joined the Rhode Island Kentish Guards, Knox signed up with
the new Boston Grenadier Corps, enjoying everything about it,
including the eating and drinking that went on.
 
At about the same time, Knox suffered an accident which, like
Greene’s stiff knee, might have precluded service as an officer. On a
bird-hunting expedition on Noddle’s Island in the harbor, his fowling
piece exploded, destroying the third and fourth fingers of his left
hand. In public thereafter he kept the hand wrapped in a
handkerchief.
 
To further complicate life, Knox had taken up the patriot cause
and fallen in love with the daughter of a prominent Tory. She, too,
was a patron of the bookstore, a correspondingly plump, gregarious
young woman named Lucy Flucker, whose father, Thomas Flucker,
was the royal secretary of the province. “My charmer,” he called her,
and neither his maimed hand nor his politics deterred her ardor.
Despite the objections of her family, they were married. When Lucy’s
father, in an effort to give his new son-in-law added respectability,
arranged for Knox to be offered a commission in the British army,
Knox declined.
 
In the tense days following the bloodshed at Lexington and
Concord, the young couple packed what little they could carry and
slipped out of Boston in disguise. Lucy was never again to see her
mother and father, who would eventually sail for England.

Page 77
Page 77
Having settled Lucy safely in Worcester, Knox reported for
service with General Artemus Ward, who assigned him to planning
and building fortifications. “Long to see you, which nothing would
prevent but the flattering hope of being able to do some little service
to my distressed and devoted country,” he wrote to her.
 
Washington first met Knox while inspecting the defenses at
Roxbury on July 5, only three days after he had taken command of
the army, and apparently he was impressed, while Knox thought
Washington everything to be wished for in a commander. “General
Washington fills his place with vast ease and dignity, and dispenses
happiness around him,” Knox wrote. He was called to confer at
headquarters, and later, like Nathanael Greene, invited to dine with
the general and his guests on several occasions.
 
It was Henry Knox who first suggested the idea of going after the
cannon at far-off Fort Ticonderoga on Lake Champlain, an
undertaking so enormous, so fraught with certain difficulties, that
many thought it impossible.
 
The capture of Fort Ticonderoga from the British by Ethan Allen,
Benedict Arnold, and a handful of Green Mountain Boys earlier in
May had been sensational news, but the fort and its captured artillery
were abandoned. When Knox told Washington he was confident the
guns could be retrieved and hauled overland to Boston, Washington
agreed at once, and put the young officer in charge of the expedition.
 
Like nearly everyone, Washington enjoyed Knox’s company.
Probably he also saw something of himself in the large, confident,
self-educated young man with the pleasing manners who had lost
his father when still a boy and had done so much on his own, and
who was so ready to take on a task of such difficulty and potential
consequence.
 
That such a scheme hatched by a junior officer in his twenties
who had had no experience was transmitted so directly to the

Page 78
Page 78
supreme commander, seriously considered, and acted upon, also
marked an important difference between the civilian army of the
Americans and that of the British. In an army where nearly everyone
was new to the tasks of soldiering and fighting a war, almost
anyone’s ideas deserved a hearing.
 
By November 16, Knox was on his way, accompanied by his
nineteen-year-old brother, William, and with authority to spend as
much as $1,000. “Don’t be afraid,” he wrote to Lucy. “There is no
fighting in the [assignment]. I am upon business only.”
 
*** 
 
WITH THE DAYS GROWING SHORTER and colder, flocks of
wild geese overhead grew in such numbers that orders had to be
posted to keep the men from firing at them and wasting precious
powder. “Every officer that stands an idle spectator, and sees such a
wanton waste of powder, and doesn’t do his utmost to suppress the
evil, may expect to be reported,” declared Nathanael Greene.
 
So great was the need to conserve powder that the morning gun,
a camp ritual, was dispensed with. Spears were issued to the troops
to be used in the event of a British attack.
 
Every colonel or commanding officer of a regiment [read
another of Greene’s orders] to appoint thirty men that are
active, bold, and resolute to use the spears in the defense
of the lines instead of guns.
 
The first snow fell on November 21, and in the days to follow it
was obvious winter had come to stay, with winds as bitter as January
and still more snow. The distress within Boston was reportedly
extreme. The British were cutting trees and tearing down old houses
for firewood. Supplying the besieged city by sea had become
increasingly difficult because of winter storms and American
privateers. Food was in desperately short supply. The King’s troops

Page 79
Page 79
were said to be so hungry that many were ready to desert at first
chance. Some of the redcoats said openly that if there were another
action and they could “get off under the smoke,” they would choose
“the fresh beef side of the question.” Men in their ranks were dying of
scurvy. Worse, smallpox raged.
 
Meanwhile, deserters from the American side were telling the
British that Washington’s army was tired and unpaid, that there was
too little clothing to keep warm, and that most of the men longed to
go home.
 
A memorable story of an incident that occurred at about this time
may or may not be entirely reliable, but portrays vividly the level of
tension among the troops and Washington’s own pent-up anger and
exasperation. It was told years afterward by Israel Trask, the ten-
year-old boy who had enlisted with his father and in whose eyes
Washington seemed almost supernatural.
 
A snowball fight broke out on Harvard Yard between fifty or more
backwoods Virginia riflemen and an equal number of sailors from the
Marblehead regiment. The fight quickly turned fierce, with “biting and
gouging on the one part, and knockdown on the other part with as
much apparent fury as the most deadly enmity could create,”
according to Trask. Hundreds of others rushed to the scene. Soon
more than a thousand men had joined in a furious brawl. Then
Washington arrived:
 
I only saw him and his colored servant, both mounted
[Trask remembered]. With the spring of a deer, he leaped
from his saddle, threw the reins of his bridle into the hands
of his servant, and rushed into the thickest of the melee,
with an iron grip seized two tall, brawny, athletic, savage-
looking riflemen by the throat, keeping them at arm’s length,
alternating shaking and talking to them.

Page 80
Page 80
Seeing this, the others took flight “at the top of their speed in all
directions from the scene of the conflict.” If Trask’s memory served,
the whole row, from start to finish, lasted all of fifteen minutes and
nothing more came of it.
 
On November 25, the British sent several boatloads of the
ragged poor of Boston, some 300 men, women, and children, across
the Back Bay, depositing them on the shore near Cambridge for the
rebels to cope with.
 
They were a heartrending sight. Many were sick and dying, “the
whole in the most miserable and piteous condition,” wrote
Washington. According to one explanation, General Howe was
making room in Boston for the reinforcements expected to arrive
anytime. But it was also said that numbers of the sick had been sent
“with [the] design of spreading the smallpox through this country and
camp,” an accusation Washington refused to believe. But when
another 150 desperate people were dispatched from Boston, as
smallpox continued unabated there, Washington described the
disease as a “weapon of defense they are using against us.”
 
Nearly all his efforts and those of his senior officers were
concentrated now on trying to hold the army together. The
Connecticut troops, whose enlistments were to expire on December
9, were counting the days until they could start for home. Nothing, it
seemed, could change their minds.
 
A stirring summons to renewed devotion to the cause of liberty,
as strong and eloquent an appeal to the men in the ranks, “the
guardians of America,” as had yet been seen in print, appeared in
the New England Chronicle, signed simply “A Freeman.” Not only did
it celebrate the Glorious Cause, but it spoke of a break with Britain
soon to come and a future “big with everything good and great,”
when Americans would decide their own salvation.

Page 81
Page 81
Your exertions in the cause of freedom, guided by
wisdom and animated by zeal and courage, have gained
you the love and confidence of your grateful countrymen;
and they look to you, who are experienced veterans, and
trust that you will still be the guardians of America. As I
have the honor to be an American, and one among the free
millions, who are defended by your valor, I would pay the
tribute of thanks, and express my gratitude, while I solicit
you to continue in your present honorable and important
station. I doubt not America will always find enough of her
sons ready to flock to her standard, and support her
freedom; but experience proves that experienced soldiers
are more capable of performing the duties of the camp, and
better qualified to face the enemy, than others; and
therefore every friend of America will be desirous that most
of the gentlemen who compose the present army may
continue in the service of their country until “Liberty, Peace,
and Safety” are established. Although your private concerns
may call for your assistance at home, yet the voice of your
country is still louder, and it is painful to heroic minds to quit
the field when liberty calls, and the voice of injured millions
cries “To arms! to arms!” Never was a cause more
important or glorious than that which you are engaged in;
not only your wives, your children, and distant posterity, but
humanity at large, the world of mankind, are interested in it;
for if tyranny should prevail in this great country, we may
expect liberty will expire throughout the world. Therefore,
more human glory and happiness may depend upon your
exertions than ever yet depended upon any of the sons of
men. He that is a soldier in defense of such a cause, needs
no title; his post is a post of honor, and although not an
emperor, yet he shall wear a crown—of glory—and blessed
will be his memory!
 
The savage and brutal barbarity of our enemies in
burning Falmouth, is a full demonstration that there is not

Page 82
Page 82
the least remains of virtue, wisdom, or humanity, in the
British court; and that they are fully determined with fire and
sword, to butcher and destroy, beggar and enslave the
whole American people. Therefore we expect soon to break
off all kind of connection with Britain, and form into a Grand
Republic of the American United Colonies, which will, by
the blessing of heaven, soon work out our salvation, and
perpetuate the liberties, increase the wealth, the power and
the glory of this Western world.
 
Notwithstanding the many difficulties we have to
encounter, and the rage of our merciless enemies, we have
a glorious prospect before us, big with everything good and
great. The further we enter into the field of independence,
our prospects will expand and brighten, and a complete
Republic will soon complete our happiness.
 
But reenlistments were alarmingly few. Of eleven regiments, or
roughly 10,000 men, fewer than 1,000 had agreed to stay. Some
stimulus besides love of country must be found to make men want to
serve, Washington advised Congress. Paying the troops a few
months in advance might help, he wrote, but again he had no money
at hand. By late November, he could report that only 2,540 of his
army had reenlisted. “Our situation is truly alarming, and of this
General Howe is well apprised…. No doubt when he is reinforced he
will avail himself of the information.”
 
Washington was a man of exceptional, almost excessive self-
command, rarely permitting himself any show of discouragement or
despair, but in the privacy of his correspondence with Joseph Reed,
he began now to reveal how very low and bitter he felt, if the truth
were known. Never had he seen “such a dearth of public spirit and
want of virtue” as among the Yankee soldiers, he confided in a letter
to Reed of November 28. “These people” were still beyond his
comprehension. A “dirty, mercenary spirit pervades the whole,” he
wrote. “Could I have foreseen what I have and am like to experience,

Page 83
Page 83
no consideration upon earth should have induced me to accept this
command.”
 
For six long months there had been hardly a shred of good news,
no single event to lift the spirits of the army, no sign to suggest better
days might lie ahead.
 
The next day, amazingly, came “glad tidings.” A privateer, the
schooner Lee, under the command of Captain John Manley, had
captured an enemy supply ship, the brig Nancy, off Cape Ann, north
of Boston. The ship was loaded with military treasure—a supply of
war material such as Congress could not be expected to provide for
months to come, including 2,500 stands of arms, cannon, mortars,
flints, some forty tons of shot, and 2,000 bayonets—nearly
everything needed but powder.
 
The Lee was one of the first of several armed schooners
Washington had sent out to prey on enemy shipping. It was a first
triumph for his new “navy,” and John Manley, a first hero. It was an
“instance of divine favor, for nothing surely ever came more
apropos,” Washington wrote immediately to Joseph Reed.
 
*** 
 
WITH THE END of enlistments only days away, concern grew
extreme. “Our people are almost bewitched about getting home,”
wrote Lieutenant Hodgkins to his wife Sarah. “I hope I and all my
townsmen shall have virtue enough to stay all winter as volunteers,
before we will leave the line without men. For our all is at stake, and
if we do not exert ourselves in this Glorious Cause, our all is gone.”
 
“I want you to come home and see us,” she wrote. “I look for you
almost every day, but I don’t allow myself to depend on anything, for
I find there is nothing to be depended upon but trouble and
disappointments.”

Page 84
Page 84
“I want to see you very much,” she said in other letters, warning
him that if he did not “alter” his mind about staying with the army, it
would be “such a disappointment that I can’t put up with it.”
 
The troops were called repeatedly into formation to be addressed
by officers and chaplains. A Connecticut soldier who had decided
nothing could keep him from going home, described how his
regiment was called out time and again to hear speeches. “We was
ordered to form a hollow square,” wrote Simeon Lyman in his diary,
“and General Lee came in and the first words was, ‘Men I do not
know what to call you; [you] are the worst of all creatures,’ and [he]
flung and cursed and swore at us…and our lieutenants begged us to
stay.” But for Simeon Lyman, like nearly all the regiment, December
9 was his last day as a soldier. On Sunday, December 10, he wrote:
 
In the morning we was ordered to parade before the
general’s door, and we was counted off and dismissed, and
we we[nt] to the lieuten[ant] and he gave us a dram, and
then we marched off.
 
General Lee stood and watched, finding a measure of
encouragement only in the response of the troops who remained:
 
Some of the Connecticutians who were homesick could
not be prevailed on to tarry, which means in the New
England dialect to serve any longer. They accordingly
marched off bag and baggage, but in passing through the
lines of the regiments, they were so horribly hissed,
groaned at, and pelted that I believe they wished their
aunts, grandmothers, and even sweethearts, to whom the
days before they were so much attached, [were] at the
devil’s own palace.
 
Washington pleaded with Congress and the provincial
governments to send more men with all possible speed. And new
recruits did continue to arrive, though only in dribs and drabs.

Page 85
Page 85
There was still no news from the expedition to Quebec, and no
word from Colonel Knox. When General Schuyler at Albany wrote to
bemoan his tribulations, Washington responded, “Let me ask you,
sir, when is the time for brave men to exert themselves in the cause
of liberty and their country, if this is not?” He understood the troubles
Schuyler faced, “but we must bear up against them, and make the
best of mankind as they are, since we cannot have them as we
wish.”
 
*** 
 
EARLIER IN THE FALL, Washington had written to his wife
Martha to say he would welcome her company in Cambridge, if she
did not think it too late in the season for such a journey. Six hundred
miles on dreadful roads by coach could be punishing even in fair
weather, and especially for someone unaccustomed to travel, no
matter her wealth or status.
 
On December 11, after more than a month on the road, Martha
Washington arrived, accompanied by her son John Custis, his wife
Eleanor, George Lewis, who was a nephew of Washington, and
Elizabeth Gates, the English wife of General Gates. Joseph Reed,
who had looked after the generals’ ladies during their stop in
Philadelphia, offered the thought, after seeing them on their way, that
they would be “not a bad supply…in a country where wood is
scarce.”
 
Sarah Mifflin, the wife of Colonel Thomas Mifflin, a young aide-
decamp, also arrived. The handsome colonel belonged to one of
Philadelphia’s most prominent families, and with his beautiful, stylish
wife added a distinct touch of glamour to Washington’s circle, while
Elizabeth Gates caused something of a sensation, going about
Cambridge in a mannish English riding habit.

Page 86
Page 86
Martha Washington, who had never been so far from home or in
the midst of war, wrote to a friend in Virginia that the boom of cannon
seemed to surprise no one but her. “I confess I shudder every time I
hear the sound of a gun…. To me that never see anything of war, the
preparations are very terrible indeed. But I endeavor to keep my
fears to myself as well as I can.”
 
In the meantime, after much debate, the Congress at
Philadelphia had passed a directive to Washington to destroy the
enemy forces in Boston, “even if the town must be burnt.” John
Hancock, whose stone mansion on Beacon Hill overlooking the
Common was one of the prominent features on the skyline, had
spoken “heartily” for the measure.
 
Work on fortifications continued without letup, and despite
freezing winds and snow, the work improved. Washington kept
moving the lines nearer and nearer the enemy. A newly completed
bastion at Cobble Hill, below Prospect Hill and fully a half mile nearer
to Boston, was described in the Providence Gazette as “the most
perfect piece of fortification that the American army has constructed
during the present campaign.”
 
*** 
 
ON DECEMBER 24, a storm swept across the whole of the
province. In the vicinity of Boston, temperatures dropped to the low
twenties, and a foot of snow fell. Christmas Day, a Monday, was still
bitterly cold, but clear, and the troops continued with their routine as
on any day.
 
On December 30, several British ships arrived in the harbor,
presumably bringing reinforcements.
 
“This is the last day of the old enlisted soldiers’ service,” wrote a
greatly distressed Nathanael Greene to Congressman Samuel Ward

Page 87
Page 87
the following day, December 31. “Nothing but confusion and disorder
reign.”
 
We have suffered prodigiously for want of wood. Many
regiments have been obliged to eat their provisions raw for
want of firing to cook, and notwithstanding we have burned
up all the fences and cut down all the trees for a mile
around the camp, our suffering has been inconceivable….
We have never been so weak as we shall be tomorrow.
 
On New Year’s Day, Monday, January 1, 1776, the first copies of
the speech delivered by King George III at the opening of Parliament
back in October were sent across the lines from Boston. They had
arrived with the ships from London.
 
The reaction among the army was rage and indignation. The
speech was burned in public by the soldiers and had stunning effect
everywhere, as word of its contents rapidly spread. Its charges of
traitorous rebellion, its ominous reference to “foreign assistance,”
assuredly ended any hope of reconciliation or a short war. It marked
a turning point as clear as the advent of the new year.
 
“We have consulted our wishes rather than our reason in the
indulgence of an idea of accommodation,” Nathanael Greene wrote
in another fervent letter to Samuel Ward in Philadelphia.
 
Heaven hath decreed that tottering empire Britain to
irretrievable ruin and thanks to God, since Providence hath
so determined, America must raise an empire of permanent
duration, supported upon the grand pillars of Truth,
Freedom, and Religion, encouraged by the smiles of
Justice and defended by her own patriotic sons…. Permit
me then to recommend from the sincerity of my heart, ready
at all times to bleed in my country’s cause, a Declaration of
Independence, and call upon the world and the great God

Page 88
Page 88
who governs it to witness the necessity, propriety and
rectitude thereof.
 
The effect of the King’s speech on Washington was profound. If
nothing else could “satisfy a tyrant and his diabolical ministry,” he
wrote to Joseph Reed, “we were determined to shake off all
connections with a state so unjust and unnatural. This I would tell
them, not under covert, but in words as clear as the sun in its
meridian brightness.”
 
Meanwhile, that New Year’s Day, the great turnover of the army
commenced, as new regiments arrived and the old departed “by
hundreds and by thousands…in the very teeth of an enemy,” as
General Heath noted.
 
Yet substantial numbers who had been in the lines stayed on,
including many who had served since Bunker Hill, like Samuel Webb
of Connecticut and young John Greenwood, the fifer. Joseph
Hodgkins would stay, for all that he and his wife longed for each
other. So would the artist John Trumbull and Dr. James Thacher.
Many, like Lieutenant Jabez Fitch of Connecticut, would go home,
but reenlist a little later in the new year. How many of the “old army”
would fight on is impossible to know, but it may have been as many
as 9,000.
 
At the Cambridge headquarters, Washington declared in his
general orders for New Year’s Day the commencement of a “new
army, which in every point of view is entirely continental.” And thus
the army, though still 90 percent a New England army, had a name,
the Continental Army.
 
He stressed the hope that “the importance of the great Cause we
are engaged in will be deeply impressed upon every man’s mind.”
Everything “dear and valuable to freemen” was at stake, he said,
calling on their patriotism to rally morale and commitment, but also
expressing exactly what he felt.

Page 89
Page 89
With the crash of a 13-gun salute, he raised a new flag in honor
of the birthday of the new army—a flag of thirteen red and white
stripes, with the British colors (the crosses of St. George and St.
Andrew) represented in the upper corner. When the British in Boston
saw it flying from Prospect Hill, they at first mistook it for a flag of
surrender.

Page 90
Page 90
Chapter Three Dorchester Heights
 
Contents - Prev / Next
 
 
We are not under the least apprehension of an attack on this
place by surprise or otherwise. 
—General William Howe
 
I
Contents - Prev / Next
 
THAT DORCHESTER HEIGHTS could decide the whole
outcome at Boston had been apparent to the British from the
beginning. Their initial plan, agreed to on June 15, had been to seize
the high ground on both the Charlestown and Dorchester peninsulas.
But then the rebels had made their surprise move at Charlestown,
digging in overnight on Bunker Hill, and it had taken the bloodbath of
June 17 to remove them. The morning after the battle, in a council of
war at the Province House, headquarters of the commander-in-chief,
Thomas Gage, it was proposed by Major General Henry Clinton to
move immediately on Dorchester. Possession of the heights was
“absolutely necessary for the security of Boston, as they lay directly
on our water communications and more seriously annoyed the port
of Boston than those of Charlestown,” Clinton later wrote, adding
that he expected to lead the assault. “I foresaw the consequence,
and gave it formally as my opinion at the time, that if the King’s
troops should be ever driven from Boston, it would be by rebel
batteries raised on those heights.”

Page 91
Page 91
But while Gage had kept Bunker Hill heavily armed with cannon
and manned by five hundred troops, he had done nothing about
Dorchester. Nor had General Howe since taking charge after Gage’s
departure for home in October. Nor, indeed, had the Americans.
Dorchester Heights remained a kind of high, windblown no-man’s-
land, neither side unmindful of its strategic importance, but neither
side daring to seize and fortify it.
 
Among those Loyalists in Boston who had closest contact with
the British command, it was commonly understood that Dorchester
was the key and commonly questioned why nothing was being done.
“It had often been wished,” wrote Justice Peter Oliver, one of the
most prominent Loyalists, “that this hill had had proper attention paid
to it; and it had been repeatedly mentioned that it was of the last
necessity to secure such a position; but the general answers were
that there was no danger from it, and that it was to be wished that
the rebels would take possession of it, as they could be dislodged.”
 
Of greater and more immediate interest to the British command
was the prospect of abandoning Boston altogether, of packing up
and sailing away. As things stood, it was clearly no place to launch
an offensive operation. New York should be made the “seat of war,”
Gage had stressed in correspondence with the administration in
London, and Howe and the others were of the same opinion.
 
Brigadier General James Grant had said months earlier that
Boston should be abandoned while there was still time. “We cannot
remain during the winter in this place, as our situation must go on
worse and that of the rebels better every day,” Grant had insisted in
a long letter from Boston to Edward Harvey, Adjutant General of the
British army in London, on August 11.
 
Grant, a grossly fat, highly opinionated Scot, who had served in
the French and Indian War, had an extremely low opinion of
Americans. (It was he who had boasted to Parliament that with 5,000

Page 92
Page 92
men he could march from one end of the American continent to the
other.) The only step that made sense, he wrote, was to burn Boston
and move on to New York. Besides, he wanted to turn the fleet loose
to burn every principle town along the New England coast. “Lenity is
out of the question.”
 
Such were the delays in communication across the ocean that by
the time General Howe received orders from London to “abandon
Boston before winter” and “remove the troops to New York,” it was
too late—winter had arrived. Besides, there were too few ships at
hand to transport the army and the hundreds of Loyalists about
whom Howe was greatly concerned, knowing what their fate could
be if they were left behind.
 
Seeing no reasonable alternative, Howe would wait for spring
when he could depart at a time and under conditions of his own
choosing. He expected no trouble from the Americans. “We are not
under the least apprehension of an attack on this place from the
rebels by surprise or otherwise,” he assured his superiors in London
and further stressed the point at a meeting with his general staff on
December 3. Should, however, the rebels make a move on
Dorchester, then, Howe affirmed, “We must go at it with our whole
force.”
 
Quite unlike the man in command of the army encircling the town,
the British commander was not impatient for action. On the contrary,
William Howe had little inclination ever to rush things. Further, it was
taken as a matter of course among professional soldiers that winter
was no season for campaigning.
 
And so the British army settled in for a long Boston winter, seeing
to their comforts as best they could under the circumstances.
 
The notable exception was Major General John Burgoyne,
“Gentleman Johnny,” an officer of distinguished record and
occasional playwright who had added welcome color to the social life

Page 93
Page 93
of the British officers and their ladies. Impatient with “supineness,” as
he said, and ambitious for a command of his own, Burgoyne had
sailed for England in early December.
 
*** 
 
WINTER IN AMERICA was a trial British soldiers could never get
used to, any more than they could adjust to the incessant clamor of
frogs on spring nights or American mosquitoes or the absence of
decent beer. The harsh winter winds and driving snows of the bay
area inflicted misery indiscriminately on both armies, of course, but
for the King’s men, unaccustomed to such a climate, the punishment
was all but unbearable. A young Irish nobleman, Captain Francis
Lord Rawdon, wrote of the suffering of his men encamped on Bunker
Hill in early December, their tents “so shattered” they could as well
have slept on the open ground—“and we hear with some envy of
several little balls and concerts which our brethren have had in
Boston.” Soldiers froze to death standing watch. Even when the
troops moved to winter quarters a few weeks later, keeping warm
seemed nearly impossible.
 
The open sea remained the only lifeline for fuel and food for the
town, but with the severity of storms on the North Atlantic, and
American privateers operating offshore in increasing numbers
despite the weather, fewer and fewer supply ships were getting
through. (“The rebels have the impudence to fit out privateers,” wrote
an indignant British officer, snug in his quarters, but the day would
come, he knew, when “we shall give the scoundrels a hearty
thrashing and put an end to this business.”)
 
British Admiral Samuel Graves, whose responsibility it was to
patrol the coastline against privateers, described snowstorms at sea
between Cape Ann and Cape Cod as defying the most resolute of
men.

Page 94
Page 94
This sort of storm is so severe that it cannot even be
looked against, and by the snow freezing as fast as it falls,
baffles all resistance—for the blocks become choked, the
tackle encrusted, the ropes and sails quite congealed, and
the whole ship before long one cake of ice…. Indeed, if the
severity of the winters be such in this climate that the
sentinel on shore is frequently found frozen to death upon
his post, though relieved every half hour, the reader may
frame some idea of what the seamen of a watch, especially
in small vessels, must suffer.
 
With firewood selling for $20 a cord in Boston, more and more
trees were cut down, including the old elm at the corner of Essex
and Orange streets, known as the Liberty Tree, which provided
fourteen cords. A hundred or more houses were pulled apart. Old
barns, old wharves, and derelict ships were chopped up, almost
anything that would burn. On orders from General Howe, Old North
Church was demolished for firewood.
 
Only a fraction of Boston’s former, peacetime population
remained, thousands having long since fled the town. But others,
Loyalists, had sought refuge there, and Loyalists were conspicuous,
if not necessarily more numerous than those inhabitants who had
chosen to stay in the hope of protecting their property, or because
they were too poor or helpless to do anything else. A few, like the
town’s selectmen, had been forbidden to leave. In all, there were
now about 4,000 civilians under siege, at least half of whom were
women and children, and they, too, no less than the redcoat army,
were hurting from shortages of all kinds, the poor inevitably suffering
most.
 
Food remained extremely scarce and dear. Young Lord Rawdon
described his famished troops as looking like skeletons. Even inferior
cuts of horse meat brought good prices. To put a stop to increasing
instances of plunder by the troops, Howe initiated punishments more
severe even than the standard for the British army. In fact, the new

Page 95
Page 95
year of 1776 began in Boston with the public whipping of a soldier
and his wife who had been caught with stolen goods.
 
For the British officers, however—the “redcoat gentry,” as
Washington called them—life was not entirely unpleasant. They had
appropriated Old South Church for a riding ring—Old South Church
being odious to them because town meetings had been held there.
(Pews were torn out, dirt spread on the floor. According to the diary
of Deacon Timothy Newell, one particularly beautiful, hand-carved
pew was taken away to serve as a hog sty.) Evening entertainments
were numerous. “We have plays, assemblies, and balls, and live as
if we were in a place of plenty,” wrote an officer. “In the midst of
these horrors of war, we endeavor as much as possible to forget
them,” explained the wife of another officer in a letter to a friend at
home.
 
Writing again to General Harvey, James Grant said, “We must get
through a disagreeable winter the best way we can. I do all in my
power to keep the ball up—I have all ranks of officers at dinner, give
them good wine, laugh at the Yankees and turn them into ridicule
when an opportunity offers.”
 
Boston having no theater, Faneuil Hall, sacred to Boston patriots
as “the cradle of liberty,” was converted on General Howe’s wish into
a “very elegant playhouse” for amateur productions of Shakespeare
and original farces, with officers and favored Loyalists taking parts.
Sally Flucker, the sister of Henry Knox’s wife, Lucy Flucker, for
example, took a lead part in a production of Maid of the Oaks, a
satire by General Burgoyne.
 
On the evening of January 8, uniformed officers and their ladies
packed Faneuil Hall for what was expected to be the event of the
season, a performance of a musical farce said also to have been
written by Burgoyne. Titled The Blockade, it was off to a rollicking
start from the moment the curtain rose. A ridiculous figure, supposed
to be George Washington, stumbled on stage wearing an oversized

Page 96
Page 96
wig and dragging a rusty sword. At the same moment, across the
bay, Connecticut soldiers led by Major Thomas Knowlton launched a
surprise attack on Charlestown, and the British responded with a
thunderous cannon barrage. With the roar of the guns, which the
audience at Faneuil Hall took to be part of the show, another comic
figure, a Yankee sergeant in farmer garb, rushed on stage to say the
rebels were “at it tooth and nail over in Charlestown.” The audience
roared with laughter and “clapped prodigiously,” sure that this, too,
was part of the fun.
 
But soon finding their mistake [wrote an eyewitness] a
general scene of confusion ensued. They immediately
hurried out of the house to their alarm posts, some skipping
over the orchestra, trampling on the fiddles, and, in short,
everyone making his most speedy retreat, the actors (who
were all officers) calling out for water to get the paint and
smut off their faces, women fainting, etc.
 
Reportedly, it was General Howe himself who shouted, “Turn out!
Turn out!”
 
*** 
 
THE BRITISH COMMANDER, an easygoing, affable man who
had never been averse to taking his pleasures when he could, was
openly enjoying himself through the winter with his own elegant
dinners, extended evenings at the faro table, and conspicuously in
the company of a stunning young woman about whom there was
much talk. The lady, who was to become known as Billy Howe’s
Cleopatra, was Elizabeth Lloyd Loring, the wife of Joshua Loring, Jr.,
a member of a prominent Loyalist family whom Howe had hired to
run the commissary for rebel prisoners. In the words of a
contemporary Loyalist chronicler of the war, “Joshua had a
handsome wife. The general…was fond of her. Joshua had no
objections. He fingered the cash, the general enjoyed madam.”

Page 97
Page 97
William Howe had been a professional soldier from the time he
finished school at Eton and at age seventeen received a commission
in the Duke of Cumberland’s Light Dragoons. Two older brothers had
also chosen military careers and distinguished themselves. The
oldest, George Augustus Lord Howe, had fought and died in America
in the French and Indian War and was remembered in New England
as one of the bravest, best-loved British officers of the time. The
other brother, Richard—Admiral Lord Howe—had begun his career
in the Royal Navy at fourteen. Like William, he was a member of
Parliament and much admired by the King.
 
The Howe brothers belonged to one of England’s most eminent
families. They were rich, accomplished, and extremely well
connected. Their mother, still a force in London society, was said to
be the illegitimate daughter of King George I. Both men were
staunch Whigs and had a decided resemblance, a rather gloomy,
dark look, with dark eyes, heavy lids, and a swarthy complexion. But
the general was the taller, at about six feet, the heavier, and a man
of fewer words. In Parliament he rarely spoke. To Horace Walpole,
Billy Howe was “one of those brave silent brothers [who] was
reckoned sensible, though so silent that nobody knew whether he
was or not.” Nor was it clear how much real heart the general had for
the war in America, given his earlier comments about having no wish
to serve in it.
 
William Howe’s ability and courage were indisputable. As a
heroic young lieutenant colonel in the French and Indian War, he had
led a detachment of light infantry up the steep embankments of
Quebec in the first light of dawn to make way for the army of General
James Wolfe to defeat the French under Montcalm on the Plains of
Abraham. Wolfe had called William Howe the best officer in the
King’s service. At Bunker Hill, assuring his troops he would not ask
them “to go a step further than where I go myself,” he had marched
in the front line. When the men fell back, after the slaughter of the
first assault, he led them up the hill twice again. After one blinding

Page 98
Page 98
volley during the third assault, he had been the only man in the front
line still standing.
 
But for all his raw courage in the heat and tumult of war, Billy
Howe could be, in the intervals between actions, slow-moving,
procrastinating, negligent in preparing for action, interested more in
his own creature comforts and pleasures.
 
That he had been stunned by the terrible cost of British victory at
Bunker Hill there is no question. “The success is too dearly bought,”
he had written to his brother the admiral. Still, he was a soldier, a
gifted strategist, and a fighter. He liked to tell his troops, “I do not in
the least doubt but that you will behave like Englishmen and as
becomes good soldiers,” and he expected no less of himself. He
would be a good soldier always, whenever put to the test. He meant
business, and at forty-five, or approximately the same age as
George Washington, he had far greater experience than
Washington, a far more impressive record, not to mention better-
trained, better-equipped troops, and ships of the Royal Navy riding at
anchor in the harbor.
 
He also had the ostensible advantage of experienced
subordinate officers, professionals all, several of whom had marked
ability. When, in the previous spring, Howe, Clinton, and Burgoyne
had sailed from England for the war in America, they truly
represented the pick of the King’s officers. All three were men of
proven courage and commitment to duty. Like Howe, Clinton and
Burgoyne were well-connected, well-schooled aristocrats, and, as
major generals, at the threshold of the peak years of their careers.
Clinton, Howe’s second-in-command, was the least impressive in
appearance, a short, fat, colorless man who could be shy and
petulant. But he had a keen military mind and the advantage of
knowing Americans from boyhood. He had grown up in New York,
where his father, Admiral George Clinton, served as governor from
1741 to 1751.

Page 99
Page 99
Among those of lesser rank, an outstanding example was John
Montresor, an officer of engineers whose years of service and
experience would seem to make a mockery of the very idea that
someone like Nathanael Greene could be a major general.
Montresor, too, had served in the French and Indian War, in the
Braddock campaign and at Wolfe’s siege of Quebec. In 1760, at age
twenty-four, he had led a winter expedition overland from Quebec to
New England, and at the war’s end worked on fortifications from
Boston to Detroit to New York City, where he bought an island,
Montresor’s Island, in the East River. He was resourceful, energetic,
probably the best engineer in the British army, and with experience
in America to equal any.
 
But it was also true that Howe and Clinton disliked one another
and did not work well together, and that John Montresor, who was
not an aristocrat, was still, at nearly forty, only a captain. If the
desperate American need for leaders had thrust young men like
Nathanael Greene into positions beyond their experience, the British
military system, wherein commissions were bought and aristocrats
given preference, denied many men of ability roles they should have
played. Had Captain John Montresor been a major general, the
outcome of the struggle might have been quite different.
 
Howe’s sources of intelligence, furthermore, were pitiful, virtually
nonexistent. As near at hand as the rebels were, the British
commander knew almost nothing of their true situation, their
perilously thin lines, their lack of gunpowder. Bunker Hill had taught
Howe not to underestimate his foe. Still, he had no doubt that the
“present unfavorable appearance of things” could be rectified readily
enough. All that was wanting was a “proper army” of 20,000.
 
In mid-January, on orders from London, General Clinton and a
small fleet sailed away southward to see what advantage might be
gained in the Carolinas, thus reducing the British force at Boston by
1,500 men. And, as pleased as Howe may have been to see Clinton

Page 100
Page 100
leave, Clinton had at least served as an antidote to Howe’s
“supineness.”
 
Oddly, Howe seems to have had no interest in the man who led
the army aligned against him. In all that he and others of the British
command wrote at the time, officially and privately, George
Washington was rarely ever mentioned except in passing. There was
no apparent consideration of what manner of man he was, what his
state of mind, his strengths and weaknesses, might be. Or what he
might be up to, given the working of his mind. Perhaps this was
indifference, perhaps the measure of an overreaching sense of
superiority. Washington, by contrast, was constantly trying to fathom
Howe’s intentions, his next move. Strange it was that the British
commander-in-chief, known for his chronic gambling, seemed to give
no thought to how his American opponent might play his hand.
 
*** 
ON JANUARY 14, two weeks into the new year, George
Washington wrote one of the most forlorn, despairing letters of his
life. He had been suffering sleepless nights in the big house by the
Charles. “The reflection upon my situation and that of this army
produces many an uneasy hour when all around me are wrapped in
sleep,” he told the absent Joseph Reed. “Few people know the
predicament we are in.”
 
Filling page after page, he enumerated the same troubles and
woes he had been reporting persistently to Congress for so long,
and that he would report still again to John Hancock that same day.
There was too little powder, still no money. (Money was useful in the
common affairs of life but in war it was essential, Washington would
remind the wealthy Hancock.) So many of the troops who had given
up and gone home had, against orders, carried off muskets that
were not their own that the supply of arms was depleted to the point
where there were not enough for the new recruits. “We have not at
this time 100 guns in the stores of all that have been taken in the

Page 101
Page 101
prize ship [the captured British supply shipNancy ],” he wrote to
Reed. On paper his army numbered between 8,000 and 10,000. In
reality only half that number were fit for duty.
 
It was because he had been unable to attack Boston that things
had come to such a pass, he was convinced. The changing of one
army to another in the midst of winter, with the enemy so close at
hand, was like nothing “in the pages of history.” That the British were
so “blind” to what was going on and the true state of his situation he
considered nearly miraculous.
 
He was downcast and feeling quite sorry for himself. Had he
known what he was getting into, he told Reed, he would never have
accepted the command.
 
I have often thought how much happier I should have
been if, instead of accepting of a command under such
circumstances, I had taken my musket upon my shoulders
and entered the ranks, or, if I could have justified the
measure to posterity, and my own conscience, had retired
to the back country, and lived in a wigwam. If I shall be able
to rise superior to these, and many other difficulties which
might be enumerated, I shall most religiously believe that
the finger of Providence is in it, to blind the eyes of our
enemies; for surely if we get well through this month, it must
be for want of their knowing the disadvantages we labor
under.
 
Could I have foreseen the difficulties which have come
upon us, could I have known that such a backwardness
would have been discovered in the old soldiers to the
service, all the generals upon earth should not have
convinced me of the propriety of delaying an attack upon
Boston till this time.

Page 102
Page 102
To add to his worries—and this he did not tell Reed—Washington
had learned through “undoubted intelligence” that the British were
fitting out ships in the harbor for the embarkation of troops, which he
took to mean, given the season of the year, they could only be bound
for a destination to the south, and almost certainly it was New York.
Generals Lee and Greene were convinced New York would be of
such “vast importance” to the enemy that no time could be lost
seeing to its defense. Loyalists were numerous in New York; their
support for the Crown was already strong. “If the tide of sentiment
gets against us in that province,” Nathanael Greene warned, “it will
give a fatal stab to the strength and union of the colonies.” In
Greene’s opinion there were but two choices open: defend New York
or burn it. General Lee proposed to Washington that he, Lee, be sent
immediately to New York to see about defenses.
 
Though in agreement that time was of the essence, Washington
knew that congressional approval was needed and that there must
be no ambiguity over whether his authority extended beyond the
immediate theater of war. As he would say, he was not fond of
“stretching” his powers, and such sensitivity to and respect for the
political ramifications of his command were exactly what made him
such an effective political general.
 
Fortunately, he was able to obtain an immediate opinion from
John Adams, who was on a brief leave from Congress at his home in
Braintree. The importance of New York was beyond question, Adams
formally assured the commander in a letter of January 6 delivered to
Cambridge that day. New York was “a kind of key to the whole
continent,” Adams wrote. “No effort to secure it ought to be omitted.”
On the matter of Washington’s authority, Adams courageously gave
him full, unambiguous approval for taking action in New York or
anywhere else, and the issue was never to be raised again.
 
“Your commission constitutes you commander ‘of all the forces…
and [you] are vested with full power and authority to act as you shall
think for the good and welfare of the service.’ ”

Page 103
Page 103
Thus, on January 8, Washington had dispatched General Lee to
New York to put the city “in the best posture of defense.”
 
There was no January thaw in eastern Massachusetts that year,
and this meant continued suffering for soldiers without winter
clothing, soldiers “sickly” and dying from disease. But with
temperatures in the twenties or lower day after day came the
increasing likelihood of Back Bay freezing over, and the possibility of
an attack on Boston across the ice.
 
On January 16, two days after his woeful letter to Reed,
Washington convened a council of war with Generals Ward, Putnam,
Heath, Spencer, Sullivan, Greene, and Gates present, but also
James Warren, head of the Massachusetts Assembly, and John
Adams. Washington spoke of the “indispensable necessity of making
a bold attempt” on Boston. The council listened, then voiced
agreement that a “vigorous attempt” should be made, but only when
“practicable.”
 
Late the following day, January 17, well after dark, a dispatch
rider dismounted at Washington’s headquarters carrying the worst
news of the war thus far. It was a letter from General Schuyler at
Albany. The army Washington had sent across the Maine wilderness
under Benedict Arnold to attack Quebec had been defeated. Arnold
was badly wounded. General Richard Montgomery, who, with 300
men, had joined in the assault, attacking from Montreal, had been
killed. Help was urgently needed. How many others had been killed
or wounded at Quebec, how many taken prisoner, no one yet knew.
 
Washington, as he wrote privately, often felt that the eyes of the
whole continent were on him, “fixed with anxious expectation.”
 
When the council of war convened again the first thing the next
morning, it was reluctantly concluded that given the “present feeble
state” of the army, no troops could be spared for Quebec.

Page 104
Page 104
The single glimmer of hope was confirmation from Schuyler, on
January 18, that the guns from Ticonderoga were on the way. As it
happened, Colonel Knox, who had ridden on ahead, reached
Cambridge later that same day.
 
***
 
KNOX HAD BEEN GONE for two months and he had fulfilled all
expectations, despite rough forest roads, freezing lakes, blizzards,
thaws, mountain wilderness, and repeated mishaps that would have
broken lesser spirits several times over. He had succeeded with his
bold, virtually impossible idea and at exactly the right moment,
justifying entirely the trust Washington had placed in him. The story
of the expedition would be told and retold for weeks within the army
and for years to come.
 
Departing from Cambridge on horseback on November 16, Knox
and his brother William had traveled first to New York City, where
they made arrangements for military supplies to be sent back to
Boston, then pressed northward up the Hudson Valley, at times
making forty miles a day.
 
They arrived at Fort Ticonderoga on December 5. Built by the
French at the start of the French and Indian War in 1755, the
limestone fort had been taken by the British in 1759, then by the
Americans in May of 1775. It stood at the southern end of Lake
Champlain, where Lake Champlain meets the northern end of Lake
George.
 
The guns Knox had come for were mostly French—mortars, 12-
and 18-pound cannon (that is, guns that fired cannonballs of 12 and
18 pounds), and one giant brass 24-pounder. Not all were in usable
condition. After looking them over, Knox selected 58 mortars and

Page 105
Page 105
cannon. Three of the mortars weighed a ton each and the 24-pound
cannon, more than 5,000 pounds. The whole lot was believed to
weigh not less than 120,000 pounds.
 
The plan was to transport the guns by boat down Lake George,
which was not yet completely frozen over. At the lake’s southern end
would begin the long haul overland, south as far as Albany before
turning east toward Boston across the Berkshire Mountains. The
distance to be covered was nearly three hundred miles. Knox
planned to drag the guns on giant sleds and was counting on snow.
But thus far only a light dusting covered the ground.
 
With the help of local soldiers and hired men, he set immediately
to work. Just moving the guns from the fort to the boat landing
proved a tremendous task. The passage down Lake George, not
quite forty miles, took eight days. Three boats and their immense
cargo set sail on December 9, and for the first hour had a fair wind.
After that progress came only with “the utmost difficulty.” Indeed,
from Knox’s hurried, all-but-illegible diary entries, that first hour on
the lake appears to have been the only hour of the entire trek that
did not bring “the utmost difficulty.”
 
One of the boats, a scow, struck a rock and sank, though close
enough to shore to be bailed out, patched up, and set afloat again.
Knox recorded days of heavy rowing against unrelenting headwinds
—four hours of “rowing exceeding hard” one day, six hours of
“excessive hard rowing” on another. In places, the boats had to cut
through ice. Knox’s brother William wrote at day’s end, December
14, of “beating all the way against the wind…. God send us a fair
wind.” Nights ashore were bitterly cold.
 
“It is not easy to conceive the difficulties we have had,” Knox
wrote to Washington at the end of the voyage on the lake, in a letter
of December 17 that would reach Cambridge only about the time he
did.

Page 106
Page 106
On his way north to Ticonderoga, Knox had arranged for heavy
sleds or sledges to be rounded up or built, forty-two in all, and to be
on hand at Fort George at the southern end of Lake George, about
thirty-five miles south of Ticonderoga. (“I most earnestly beg you to
spare no trouble or necessary expense in getting these,” he had told
a local officer.) With the sleds and eighty yoke of oxen, he was now
ready to push on. “Trusting that…we shall have a fine fall of snow….
I hope in sixteen or seventeen days to be able to present your
Excellency a noble train of artillery.”
 
To his wife, Knox claimed the most difficult part was over, and
speculated, “We shall cut no small figure through the country with
our cannon.”
 
Still there was no snow. Instead, a “cruel thaw” set in, halting
progress for several days. The route south to Albany required four
crossings of the Hudson. With ice on the river so thin, the heavy
caravan could only stand idly by at Fort George and wait for a
change in the weather. When the change came, it was a blizzard.
Three feet of snow fell, beginning Christmas Day. Determined to go
ahead to Albany on his own, Knox nearly froze to death struggling
through the snow on foot, until finding horses and a sleigh to take
him the rest of the route.
 
Eventually, the “precious convoy” pushed off from Fort George.
“Our cavalcade was quite imposing,” remembered John Becker, who
at age twelve had accompanied his father, one of the drivers on the
expedition. They proceeded slowly, laboriously in the heavy snow,
passing through the village of Saratoga, then on to Albany, where
Knox was busy cutting holes in the frozen Hudson in order to
strengthen the ice. (The idea was that water coming up through the
holes would spread over the surface of the ice and freeze, thus
gradually thickening the ice.)
 
On New Year’s Day, the weather turned warm again. Precious
time was wasting, he wrote to Lucy. “The thaw has been so grave

Page 107
Page 107
that I’ve trembled for the consequences, for without snow my very
important charge cannot get along.”
 
But the temperature plunged again. On January 7, General
Schuyler wrote to Washington from his Albany headquarters, “This
morning I had the satisfaction to see the first division of sleds with
cannon cross the river.”
 
They moved cautiously over the ice, and for several hours it
appeared that Knox’s holes had done the trick. Nearly a dozen sleds
had crossed without mishap, until suddenly one of the largest
cannons, an 18-pounder, broke through and sank not far from shore,
leaving a hole in the ice fourteen feet in diameter. Undaunted, Knox
at once set about retrieving the cannon from the bottom of the river,
losing a full day in the effort, but at last succeeding, as he wrote,
“owing to the assistance [of] the good people of Albany.”
 
On January 9, the expedition pushed on from the eastern shore
of the Hudson, with more than a hundred miles still to go. Snow in
the Berkshires lay thick, exactly as needed, but the mountains, steep
and tumbled and dissected by deep, narrow valleys, posed a
challenge as formidable as any. Knox, with no prior experience in
such terrain, wrote of climbing peaks “from which we might almost
have seen all the kingdoms of the earth.”
 
“It appeared to me almost a miracle that people with heavy loads
should be able to get up and down such hills,” reads another of his
diary entries.
 
To slow the descent of the laden sleds down slopes as steep as a
roof, check lines were anchored to trees. Brush and drag chains
were shoved beneath the runners. When some of his teamsters,
fearful of the risks, refused to go any further, Knox spent three hours
arguing and pleading until finally they agreed to head on.

Page 108
Page 108
News of the advancing procession raced ahead of the lead sleds,
and, as Knox had imagined, people began turning out along the
route to see for themselves the procession of the guns from
Ticonderoga.
 
“Our armament here was a great curiosity,” wrote John Becker of
the reception at the town of Westfield. “We found that very few, even
among the oldest inhabitants, had ever seen a cannon.” Becker, at
age twelve, had never known such excitement.
 
We were the great gainers by this curiosity, for while
they were employed in remarking upon our guns, we were,
with equal pleasure, discussing the qualities of their cider
and whiskey. These were generously brought out in great
profusion.
 
At Springfield, to quicken the pace, Knox changed from oxen to
horses, and on the final leg of the journey the number of onlookers
grew by the day.
 
The halt came at last about twenty miles west of Boston at
Framingham. The guns were unloaded, Knox, meantime, having
sped on to Cambridge.
 
Knox’s “noble train” had arrived intact. Not a gun had been lost.
Hundreds of men had taken part and their labors and resilience had
been exceptional. But it was the daring and determination of Knox
himself that had counted above all. The twenty-five-year-old Boston
bookseller had proven himself a leader of remarkable ability, a man
not only of enterprising ideas, but with the staying power to carry
them out. Immediately, Washington put him in command of the
artillery.
 
To those who rode out from Cambridge to Framingham to look
over the guns, it was clear that the stalemate at Boston was about to
change dramatically.

Page 109
Page 109
II
Contents - Prev / Next
 
THERE WAS A PERCEPTIBLE QUICKENING of activity at the
big gray house that served as headquarters. The pace of the
commander’s correspondence, the numbers of post riders and
uniformed officers coming and going, gave evidence of something in
the offing. “My business increases very fast…from great changes,”
Washington wrote to Joseph Reed without providing details. Reed’s
help was needed more than ever. “It is absolutely necessary…to
have persons that can think for me as well as execute orders.”
 
The strength of the army was still deficient, the situation so
serious, Washington confided, that he was “obliged to use art to
conceal it,” even from his own officers.
 
That he was about to take action could be read easily enough
between the lines of this and other correspondence that went
speeding off in the pouches of fast mail riders. The camps were alive
with rumors and speculation. “Great activity and animation are
observed among our officers and soldiers who manifest an anxious
desire to have a conflict with the enemy,” wrote the ever-perceptive
Dr. James Thacher, who predicted either a “general assault on the
town of Boston, or the erection of works on the Heights of
Dorchester, or both.”
 
The bitter cold continued. On January 27, the thermometer
dropped to 4 degrees; the low on January 28 was 1 degree, then 2
degrees on January 30. Yet cold as it was, there was still no “ice
bridge” sufficient to carry an army. Some mornings Washington went
to the bay to jump up and down on the ice himself to test its strength.

Page 110
Page 110
He made a personal reconnaissance of the approaches to
Dorchester, even to the heights apparently, accompanied by several
of his officers, including Henry Knox. According to one possibly
apocryphal account, Washington and the others had left their horses
and were proceeding on foot when suddenly two mounted British
officers coming at a gallop sent them “running and scampering for
life.”
 
A week later, a British raiding party crossed the ice to Dorchester
and burned several farmhouses.
 
On February 16, Washington convened his council of war for
what he hoped would be unanimous agreement that the time had
come to attack. A “stroke well aimed at this critical juncture might put
a final end to the war,” he argued.
 
“Perhaps a greater question was never agitated in a council of
war,” wrote General Gates of the meeting, and whatever “art”
Washington may have exercised to conceal the truth of the army’s
strength from his officers, there was, in fact, little that Gates and the
others gathered in the room were not aware of. For weeks the
demonstrative Israel Putnam had been bewailing the need for
gunpowder. Old Put would not relent, wrote one of Washington’s
staff. “He is still as hard as ever, crying out for powder—‘powder—ye
gods, give us powder!’ ”
 
Conspicuous by his absence was Nathanael Greene, who had
been stricken with jaundice. He was “as yellow as saffron,” and “so
weak that I can scarcely walk across the room,” he had written his
brother, to whom he also gave his own opinion on the proposed
attack. The very thought filled him with dread. An assault on a town
garrisoned with regular troops could have horrible consequences,
Greene wrote, “horrible if it succeeded, and still more horrible if it
failed.”

Page 111
Page 111
The council of war marked the fourth time Washington had called
for approval for an attack on Boston, and once again, wisely, the
generals said no. Very likely the shattering defeat at Quebec had
reinforced the view that any assault on so heavily defended a
position was not worth the terrible risk.
 
There was, however, agreement to another plan. Instead of
striking at the enemy where they were well fortified, they would lure
the enemy out to strike at them, as had been done at Bunker Hill.
From the accounts of spies and British deserters, it was by now
known that Howe had sworn he would “sally forth” if ever the
Americans tried to occupy Dorchester. And so it was resolved that
preparations begin “with a view of drawing out the enemy.”
 
Washington was crestfallen over the decision not to attack.
“Behold! Though we had been waiting all the year for this favorable
event, the enterprise was thought too dangerous!” he wrote to
Joseph Reed. But perhaps he had been wrong, he gracefully
conceded. “Perhaps the irksomeness of my situation led me to
undertake more than could be warranted by prudence.”
 
But all that was done with. The issue was “now at an end, and I
am preparing to take post on Dorchester.” From this point on, there
would be no holding back.
 
***
 
THE PREPARATIONS were elaborate and mammoth in scale,
and Washington threw himself into the effort, demanding that not an
hour be lost. Intelligence reports that the British intended to evacuate
Boston at first chance did nothing to deter him.
 
Twin hills comprised the Heights of the Dorchester peninsula, and
the distance from these summits to the nearest British lines at

Page 112
Page 112
Boston Neck was a mile and a half, well within range of a 12-or 18-
pound cannon. The distance to where most of the British fleet lay off
Long Wharf was greater, almost two miles, which was also within
range, though barely.
 
The plan was to occupy the Heights on a single night, before the
British knew what was happening, just as had been done at Bunker
Hill. This time, however, there were the guns from Ticonderoga to
haul in place, and the Heights of Dorchester were considerably
steeper than at Bunker Hill and, at an elevation of 112 feet, nearly
twice as high. More seriously, the frozen ground on top was
“impenetrable as a rock,” in Washington’s words, which meant that
digging trenches and throwing up breastworks in the usual fashion
would be impossible, at least in one night and with no noise.
 
The solution was a highly sophisticated scheme whereby the
fortifications would be fabricated elsewhere out of sight, then, with
massed manpower and oxen, hauled, along with the heavy cannon,
to the Heights of Dorchester, where all would have to be in place and
ready for action before daylight.
 
A resourceful lieutenant colonel who had directed the work on the
fortifications at Roxbury, Rufus Putnam—a farmer and surveyor in
normal times, and a cousin of Israel Putnam—had suggested the
idea after seeing an unfamiliar term in a text on artillery, Muller’s
Field Engineer, by a British professor named John Muller. Putnam
had taken his plan to his superior officer, Colonel Richard Gridley,
and to Henry Knox. In turn, the three had gone to see Washington,
and in no time hundreds of men were at work building chandeliers,
great timber frames that could be filled with “screwed hay” (hay
twisted into bales) or compact bundles of branches and brushwood
called fascines.
 
Washington also wanted barrels filled with earth set in rows in
front of the parapets, to add to the appearance of strength, but more
importantly to stand ready to be rolled down the steep slopes on the

Page 113
Page 113
advancing enemy. He had “a very high opinion of the defense which
may be made with barrels,” he told Artemus Ward, stressing that the
hoops should be well nailed so the barrels would not break to pieces.
 
To divert the enemy and drown out the noise of the work parties,
Washington planned to precede the operation with night barrages of
artillery fire from Roxbury, Cobble Hill, and Lechmere Point, where a
number of the guns from Ticonderoga had been newly emplaced.
 
As critical and dangerous as any part of the operation would be
the crossing of the lowlying causeway of the Dorchester peninsula,
which stood in plain view of the British lines at the Boston Neck, less
than a mile away. To conceal all movement over the causeway, an
extended barrier of hay bales was to be thrown up.
 
Three thousand men under General Thomas were to take part in
fortifying the Heights. Another 4,000 were to stand by at Cambridge
for an amphibious attack on Boston, once the British launched their
assault on the Heights—amphibious because milder weather had
returned and the bay was again largely open water. General Putnam
had overall command of the Boston attack. Generals Greene and
Sullivan would lead the crossing. On the Charles River at
Cambridge, sixty flatboats stood ready.
 
To bring the army to maximum strength, 2,000 Massachusetts
militia were called out, while work details were dispatched to round
up wagons, carts, and 800 oxen. At the army’s hospital in
Cambridge, thousands of bandages were being prepared, and
additional beds made ready. Notices in the Boston Gazette
(published in Watertown since the start of the siege) called for
volunteer nurses.
 
For miles around Boston everybody seemed to know someone,
or someone who knew someone, who was in the know about what to
expect. Bets were wagered on what would happen and when. In the
surrounding towns tension and fear grew by the day.

Page 114
Page 114
“It is generally thought that there will be something done amongst
you very soon,” Sarah Hodgkins wrote from Ipswich to her husband
Joseph.
 
“The preparations increase and something is daily expected,
something terrible it will be,” wrote Abigail Adams to her “Dearest
Friend,” who had since returned to Philadelphia. “I have been in a
continual state of anxiety and expectation…it has been said
‘tomorrow’ and ‘tomorrow’ for this [past] month, but when the
dreadful tomorrow will be I know not.”
 
As he had often before in his life, Washington eased the stress of
waiting by catching up with his correspondence, writing again to
Joseph Reed and to a young black poet, Phillis Wheatley, then living
in Providence, who had sent him a poem written in his honor:
“Proceed, great chief, with virtue on thy side / Thy every action let
the goddess guide.”
 
The country had no poets as yet, and Washington was not known
to be inclined to poetry or poetic musings. Yet he, a soldier and
planter—a slave master—despite all that bore heavily on his mind,
took time now to write to her in his own hand.
 
“I thank you most sincerely for your polite notice of me,”
Washington wrote, “and however undeserving I may be of such
encomium and panegyrick, the style and manner exhibit a striking
proof of your great poetical talents.” Should she ever come to
Cambridge, he would be “happy to see a person so favored by the
muses.”
 
In a letter to a Virginia friend, Washington wrote almost lightly of
preparing to “bring on a rumpus” with the redcoats.

Page 115
Page 115
THE DATE HAD BEEN SETTLED. The move on Dorchester
would begin after dark on March 4 and be completed by first light the
morning of March 5, the anniversary of the Boston Massacre.
 
How many hundreds, perhaps thousands, understood what was
unfolding, even in some detail, no one knew. Yet success depended
on secrecy. To this end Washington ordered a stop to all
communication with Boston. Generals Heath and Sullivan personally
inspected the lines to verify the vigilance of the guards on duty. On
the chance that the enemy got wind of what was happening and
moved first to occupy the Heights, certain regiments stood ready to
march at a moment’s notice.
 
One of the closest observers of the situation within Boston,
Loyalist Peter Oliver, would later write that there was not the least
suspicion of what the rebels were up to. But according to the diary of
one British officer, a few of the British did find out as early as
February 29, from deserters and from a spy referred to only as
“Junius,” that the rebels intended to “bombard the town from
Dorchester.” The warnings, however, were not taken seriously.
 
Washington issued orders to the troops clarifying how very
serious the moment was and what was expected of them:
 
As the season is now fast approaching when every man
must expect to be drawn into the field of action, it is highly
necessary that he should prepare his mind, as well as
everything necessary for it. It is a noble cause we are
engaged in, it is the cause of virtue and mankind, every
temporal advantage and comfort to us, and our posterity
depends upon the vigor of our exertions…. But it may not
be amiss for the troops to know that if any man in action
shall presume to skulk, hide himself, or retreat from the
enemy, without the orders of his commanding officer, he will
be instantly shot down, as an example of cowardice.

Page 116
Page 116
On Saturday evening, March 2, Washington wrote in haste to
Artemus Ward that everything must be set and ready to go as
planned on Monday night, March 4. After folding and sealing the
note, he scrawled on the back, “Remember barrels.”
 
 
THE BOMBARDMENT of Boston began at midnight Saturday
and continued at intervals until morning. The British answered at
once with a heavier, louder cannonade. “The house shakes…with
the roar of the cannon,” wrote Abigail Adams at her home ten miles
away. “No sleep for me tonight.”
 
Little damage was done by the exchange. It was nearly all noise,
just as Washington wished, and the night would have been reckoned
a complete success were it not that three of the big mortars burst,
due apparently to the inexperience of Henry Knox and his
artillerymen.
 
Sunday night the firing resumed and again the British responded
with full crescendo. On the third and crucial night of Monday, March
4, the roar of the guns from both sides became more furious by far.
 
British captain Charles Stuart described sheets of fire filling the
sky. But as he also recorded, “The inhabitants were in a horrid
situation, particularly the women, who were several times drove from
their houses by shot, and crying for protection.” Watching from the
American lines, Lieutenant Samuel Webb wrote, “Our shells raked
the houses and the cries of the poor women and children frequently
reached our ears.”
 
At the first crash of the guns, General Thomas and 2,000 men
started across the Dorchester causeway, moving rapidly and silently,
shielded from view by the long barrier of hay bales. An advance
guard of 800 men, a “covering party” made up largely of riflemen,
went first, to fan out along the Dorchester shores in case the British
made any attempt to investigate during the night. The main work

Page 117
Page 117
party of 1,200 men followed immediately after, and then came
hundreds of carts and heavy wagons loaded with chandeliers,
fascines, hay bales, barrels, and most important of all, the guns from
Ticonderoga.
 
“The whole procession moved on in solemn silence, and with
perfect order and regularity, while the continued roar of cannon
serves to engage the attention and divert the enemy,” wrote Dr.
Thacher, who, crossing the causeway with the troops, noted with
gratitude the “vast number of large bundles of screwed hay arranged
in a line next [to] the enemy…to which we should have been greatly
exposed while passing.”
 
Progress up the steep, smooth slopes was extremely difficult, yet
numbers of the ox teams and wagons made three and four trips.
 
The night was unseasonably mild—indeed, perfectly beautiful
with a full moon—ideal conditions for the work, as if the hand of the
Almighty were directing things, which the Reverend William Gordon,
like many others, felt certain it was. “A finer [night] for working could
not have been taken out of the whole 365,” he wrote. “It was hazy
below [the Heights] so that our people could not be seen, though it
was a bright moonlight night above on the hills.”
 
At Cambridge, on the moonlit Common, Generals Greene and
Sullivan paraded with 4,000 troops in front of the college buildings,
ready to move to the river and the shallow draft boats in the event of
a signal from the Roxbury church steeple.
 
Recounting the night’s events later, General Thomas would say it
was as early as ten o’clock when the fortifications on the Heights
were sufficiently ready to defend against small arms and grapeshot.
It was also about ten when a British lieutenant colonel, Sir John
Campbell, reported to Brigadier General Francis Smith that the
“rebels were at work on Dorchester Heights.” It was news that called
for immediate action. But Smith, a stout, slow-moving, slow-thinking

Page 118
Page 118
veteran of thirty years’ service, chose to ignore it; and from that point
on, the work proceeded unnoticed by any other British officers or
troops on guard, or by any of the Loyalists in Boston who served as
willing eyes and ears for the British.
 
On the Heights the men toiled steadily with picks and shovels,
breaking the frozen ground for earth and stone to fill the chandeliers
and barrels. At three in the morning a relief force of 3,000 men
moved in, and an additional five regiments of riflemen took up
positions near the shore. By the first faint light before dawn,
everything was ready, with at least 20 cannon in place.
 
It was an utterly phenomenal achievement. General Heath was
hardly exaggerating when he wrote, “Perhaps there never was so
much work done in so short a space of time.”
 
At daybreak, the British commanders looking up at the Heights
could scarcely believe their eyes. The hoped-for, all-important
surprise was total. General Howe was said to have exclaimed, “My
God, these fellows have done more work in one night than I could
make my army do in three months.”
 
The British engineering officer, Archibald Robertson, calculated
that to have carried everything into place as the rebels had—“a most
astonishing night’s work”—must have required at least 15,000 to
20,000 men. Howe, in his official account, would be more
conservative and put the number at 14,000.
 
Later that spring, one of the London papers would carry portions
of a letter attributed to an unnamed “officer of distinction at Boston”:
 
5th March. This is, I believe, likely to prove as important
a day to the British empire as any in our annals. We
underwent last night a very severe cannonade, which
damaged a number of houses, and killed some men. This
morning at day break we discovered two redoubts on the

Page 119
Page 119
hills of Dorchester Point, and two smaller works on their
flanks. They were all raised during the night, with an
expedition equal to that of the genie belonging to Aladdin’s
wonderful lamp. From these hills they command the whole
town, so that we must drive them from their post, or desert
the place.
 
 
THE SHOCK OF DISCOVERY threw the British into “utmost
consternation.” Their immediate response, a thunderous two-hour
cannonade, proved nothing, as their guns could not be elevated
sufficiently to strike a target so high. Meantime, from his flagship,
Admiral Molyneux Shuldham (who had replaced Admiral Graves)
sent an urgent, unequivocal message to William Howe: not a ship in
the harbor could remain unless the rebels were removed from their
position.
 
It was not that the ships were directly “under the guns” on the
Heights, as some later accounts gave the impression. At such a
distance of nearly two miles, a direct hit would be a lucky shot. Still
the ships were theoretically within range, and lucky shots were
known to happen.
 
Howe could dally no longer. With his generals gathered at the
Province House at midmorning, he made his decision: he would
attack, as he had vowed he would—and as his pride and honor
demanded. He had no intention of staying in Boston, but that now
seemed beside the point. Being who he was, he could not possibly
accept the prospect of being outdone by the ragtag enemy, even if
the carnage that had resulted from such an attack at Bunker Hill was
as well known to him as to any man alive.
 
Two thousand troops were ordered to proceed by ship down the
harbor to Castle Island, from where the attack on Dorchester would
be launched at nightfall.

Page 120
Page 120
Captain Archibald Robertson thought the plan little short of
madness and said so to others. Writing in his diary during the course
of the day, he called it “the most serious step ever an army of this
strength in such a situation took, considering the state the rebels’
works are in and the number of men they appear to have under
arms.” The fate of the whole town was at stake, “not to say the fate
of America.” These were his sentiments, he declared, and he listed
the names of the officers he had spoken to, hoping they could
persuade Howe to change his mind and embark from Boston as
quickly as possible. But starting about noon, the big transports
loaded with troops began pushing off from Long Wharf.
 
Years later, recalling the morning of March 5 on Dorchester
Heights, John Trumbull would write, “We saw distinctly the
preparations which the enemy were making to dislodge us. The
entire waterfront of Boston lay open to our observation, and we saw
the embarkation of troops from the various wharves…. We were in
high spirits, well prepared to receive the threatened attack.”
 
Dr. Thacher, setting events down in his journal as they unfolded
that “anxious” day on the Heights, wrote of the swarms of spectators
covering the nearby hills, waiting to see a bloody battle.
 
Sometime in the course of the day (the exact hour is not known),
Washington arrived to survey the defenses and the panorama below.
“His Excellency General Washington is present animating and
encouraging the soldiers,” recorded Thacher, “and they in return
manifest their joy, and express a warm desire for the approach of the
enemy.”
 
Each man knows his place, and is resolute to execute
his duty [he continued]. Our breastworks are strengthened,
and among the means of defense are a great number of
barrels, filled with stone and sand, arranged in front of our
works, which are to be put in motion and made to roll down
the hill, to break the ranks and legs of assailants as they

Page 121
Page 121
advance. These are the preparations for blood and
slaughter! Gracious God! If it be determined in thy
Providence that thousands of our fellow creatures shall this
day be slain, let thy wrath be appeased, and in mercy grant
that victory be on the side of our suffering, bleeding country.
 
According to the Reverend William Gordon, Washington called on
those within the sound of his voice to “ ‘remember it is the fifth of
March, and avenge the death of your brethren.’ It was immediately
asked what the general said by those that were not near enough to
hear, and as soon answered. And so from one to another through all
the troops, which added fresh fuel to the martial fire before kindled.”
 
Describing the troops drawn up at Cambridge, waiting for the
order to attack, Washington himself said he “never saw spirits
higher.”
 
It was about noon when the first of the British troop transports
pushed off for Castle Island and proceeded down the harbor with
increasing difficulty against strong headwinds. For by early
afternoon, what had been an abnormally warm, pleasant day had
changed dramatically. The wind had turned southeasterly, blowing
“pretty fresh.” Then, as foreseen in no one’s calculations, the
elements took over.
 
By nightfall, a storm raged, with hail mixed with snow and sleet.
By midnight, “the wind blew almost a hurricane.” Windows were
smashed, fences blown over. Two of the transports bound for Castle
Island were blown ashore. The American lieutenant Isaac Bangs,
who was among those freezing at their posts on the high ground of
Dorchester, called it the worst storm “that ever I was exposed to.”
Clearly there would be no British assault that night.
 
The morning after, the winds continued to blow with a fury. The
snow and sleet had changed to driving rain. General Heath
concluded that “kind Heaven” had stepped in to intervene. As so it

Page 122
Page 122
seemed to many on both sides, when, that morning, Howe called off
the attack and gave orders to prepare to evacuate Boston.
 
Possibly it was not the storm alone that caused Howe’s change
of mind. According to Captain Robertson, his pleas to cancel the
attack, and the influence of the other officers to whom he had made
his case, and John Montresor in particular, had had the desired
effect even before the storm reached full force. From what
Robertson wrote in the final lines of his diary entry for the day, it
would seem that the storm had merely given Howe an easy out.
 
It is now eight o’clock in the evening. [We] went to
headquarters at seven. After waiting some time Captain
Montresor came down from the general [and] told me he
had been in council and had advised the going off
[embarking] altogether, that Lord [General Hugh] Percy and
some others seconded him, and that the general said it was
his own sentiments from the first, but thought the honor of
the troops concerned. So it is agreed immediately to
embark everything.
 
Interestingly, Isaac Bangs, in his account of the day, wondered
whether the intent of the whole British expedition to Castle Island
was never anything “more than to make a parade” and if the storm
was only a “good excuse.”
 
In the view of General James Grant, however, there was never a
doubt of Howe’s desire to attack. “Indeed, we had often talked over
the subject and agreed that if the rebels made that move to their
right [to Dorchester], we must either drive them from that post or
leave Boston.” According to Grant, everything had been prepared,
and the plan to attack was “immediately formed, the redoubts to be
stormed by the troops in column [and] not to load, that they might be
under an absolute necessity of making use of their bayonets.”

Page 123
Page 123
Howe, in his own official account, was to say, “I determined upon
an immediate attack with all the force I could transport.” He added,
“The ardor of the troops encouraged me in this hazardous
enterprise,” and this could be the explanation, though an American
who saw the British troops waiting on the wharf to embark,
commented that “they looked in general pale and dejected, and said
to one another it would be another Bunker Hill or worse.”
 
Howe made no mention in his official account of the council of
war convened at seven o’clock, or of any second thoughts on his
part. The “contrary” winds of the afternoon of March 5, the storm that
followed that night, and the “weather continuing boisterous the next
day and night” were the deciding factors, Howe wrote, in that they
gave the enemy still more time to improve their defenses of the
Heights. “I could promise myself little success by attacking them
under all the disadvantages I had to encounter; wherefore I judged it
most advisable to prepare for the evacuation of the town.”
 
III
Contents - Prev / Next
 
NO ONE WHO WAS IN BOSTON would forget the days that
followed. In less than forty-eight hours, the supposedly invulnerable
security of the town had dissolved. Howe’s army and the fleet at
anchor were in danger of being destroyed at any time. The very
survival of the town itself was in question.
 
In conference and in dispatches to London, the general had
stated repeatedly his confidence that the rebels would make no
move. Now he and his vaunted regulars had been outsmarted by
“the rabble in arms,” whom they had so long disparaged and
despised. Instead of victory, they faced the humiliation of
ignominious retreat.

Page 124
Page 124
“Never [were] troops in so disgraceful a situation,” wrote one
officer. “I pity General Howe from my soul.”
 
Almost from the moment Howe made his announcement the
morning of March 6, ordering the army and fleet to prepare to leave,
Boston became a scene of utmost frenzy. “Nothing but hurry and
confusion, every person striving to get out of this place,” wrote an
American merchant, John Rowe.
 
Deacon Timothy Newell, who, like John Rowe, was a patriotic
American, had been forbidden, as a town selectman, to leave
Boston. “This day,” he wrote on March 6, “the utmost distress and
anxiety among the refugees and associators [Loyalists]…. Blessed
by God, our redemption draws near.”
 
Howe, who had received no orders—no word of any kind—from
London since October, had no long-standing plan for a withdrawal of
such magnitude, or any comparable past experience to draw upon. “I
told General Howe,” wrote James Grant, “that I had been in many
scrapes but that I never was in so thick a wood with all the branches
[like] thorns, but that we must look forward and get out.”
 
It was not just that there were thousands of troops and military
stores to transport, but the hundreds of women and children who
were with the army. Further, Howe intended to take every Loyalist
who chose to go.
 
The necessary care of the women, sick, and wounded
required every assistance that could be given [one man
wrote]. It was not like the breaking up of a camp, where
every man knows his duty. It was like departing your
country, with your wives, your servants, your household
furniture, and all your encumbrances.
 
It seemed everyone had his own dire needs or urgent special
request, someone or something to complain about, someone or

Page 125
Page 125
something to blame for his plight.
 
There were a sufficient number of transports and other ships at
hand, but these all had to be supplied with provisions and water.
Equipment of all kinds had to be put aboard. In the meantime, there
was very little to eat. Continued storms at sea had prevented nearly
all supply ships from even approaching the coast. When a single
sloop from the West Indies did make it into the harbor, it was learned
that more than seventy food transports, “victualers,” and store ships
that had been blown off course that winter were tied up and refitting
at Antigua. According to some rumors, there was not enough food
left in Boston to last three weeks.
 
High winds kept blowing, churning the harbor, and the rebel guns
remained silent. But while the rebels held their fire, they could be
seen in plain view on Dorchester Heights, steadily strengthening
their position.
 
All was still comparatively quiet on Friday, March 8, when Deacon
Newell and three other selectmen crossed the lines at the Neck
under a white flag carrying an unsigned paper stating that General
Howe had “no intention of destroying the town, unless the troops
under his command are molested during the embarkation.” Though
clearly intended for Washington, this declaration was not addressed
to him, and so it was given no reply. But the word had been passed
—if allowed to depart peacefully, the British would spare the town.
 
Then, the night of March 9, when the rebels were seen moving
on to Nook’s Hill on Dorchester, a high point of land only a quarter of
a mile from the British lines at the Neck, Howe ordered a thunderous
all-night bombardment. “Such a firing was never before heard in New
England,” wrote Isaac Bangs. Four men were killed by a single ball.
But that was the only damage done. The next day the men on the hill
gathered up 700 cannonballs that had been fired at them.

Page 126
Page 126
In town the pell-mell rush and confusion grew worse. The
“cathartic” was drastic, as Loyalist Peter Oliver observed.
Hogsheads of sugar and salt, barrels of flour for which there was no
room on the ships, were being dumped into the harbor, along with
smashed-up furniture, wagons, wheelbarrows, even the
commander’s elegant coach. Cannon for which there was no room
were spiked or dumped in the harbor.
 
Americans watching from a dozen hillsides and promontories
around the town could see, as Washington wrote, streets full of
“great movements and confusion among the troops night and day…
in hurrying down their cannon, artillery, and other stores to the
wharves with utmost precipitation.” Washington was convinced that
Howe was making ready to sail for New York.
 
*** 
 
THE ALARM AND ANXIETY among the Loyalists was extreme.
Leave they must, but no one knew how many there were, or whether
there would be room for all, or where they were heading. Not until
the morning of March 10 were they told they could begin coming
aboard. There was no time for deliberation. Virtually all they owned
would have to be left behind.
 
Those who were already refugees—those who had earlier fled
Cambridge, Roxbury, or Milton for the presumed safety of Boston—
knew what it was to abandon everything and find themselves
dependent on charity. Now Bostonians, too, faced the prospect of
forsaking lifelong associations and treasured belongings—indeed,
their very homeland and entire way of life.
 
“It is not easy to paint the distress and confusion of the
inhabitants on the occasion. I had but six or seven hours allowed to
prepare for this measure, being obliged to embark the same day,”
wrote the Reverend Henry Caner.

Page 127
Page 127
As rector of King’s Chapel, the first Anglican church in Boston,
the Reverend Caner was the leading Church of England clergyman
in Massachusetts and a greatly respected figure among all
denominations. He had been rector for nearly thirty years and lived
alone in a small frame house close to King’s Chapel, at the corner of
School and Tremont streets. In his account of “goods left in my
house at Boston, March 10, 1776,” he listed, among other items: “a
handsome clock,” two mahogany tables, teacups and saucers, “one
rich carved mahogany desk and book case [with] glass doors,”
pictures of the King and Queen “under glass with rich frames,” a pair
of brass andirons, “a fine harpsichord,” 1,000 books, a barn and
“appurtenances,” a cow and a calf.
 
The great majority of the Loyalists had never lived anywhere
else, or ever expected to live anywhere else. They were
disillusioned, disoriented, and not a little resentful. In their allegiance
to the King and to the rule of law, they saw themselves as the true
American patriots. They had wanted no part of the rebellion—“the
horrid crime of rebellion;” Justice Oliver called it—and had trusted,
not unrealistically, in the wealth and power of the British nation to
protect them and put a quick end to what, by their lights, had
become mob rule.
 
A Boston merchant named Theophilus Lillie, who owned a store
on Middle Street specializing in English dry goods and groceries,
had expressed his views in print in the aftermath of the mob assault
on British soldiers that erupted into the Boston Massacre.
 
Upon the whole, I cannot help saying—although I have
never entered into the mysteries of government, having
applied myself to my shop and my business—that it always
seemed strange to me that people who contend so much
for civil and religious liberty should be so ready to deprive
others of their natural liberty….

Page 128
Page 128
If one set of private subjects may at any time take upon
themselves to punish another set of private subjects just
when they please, it’s such a sort of government as I never
heard of before; and according to my poor notion of
government, this is one of the principle things which
government is designed to prevent.
 
Dr. Sylvester Gardiner, one of the best-known men in town, would
write to a son-in-law:
 
I found I could not stay in Boston and trust my person
with a set of lawless rebels whose actions have disgraced
human nature and who have treated all the King’s loyal
subjects that have fallen in their hands with great cruelty
and for no other crime than for their loyalty to the best of
Kings and a peaceable submission to the best constituted
government on earth. I don’t believe there ever was a
people in any age or part of the world that enjoyed so much
liberty as the people of America did under the mild
indulgent government (God bless it) of England and never
was a people under a worser state of tyranny than we are
at present.
 
It was said the fleet was bound for Halifax in Nova Scotia, but no
one could say for certain. And who knew, in any event, what miseries
lay in store for them at sea?
 
Many who wanted desperately to escape had “families they were
loath should be separated.” Many who chose to stay did so knowing
they could expect “ill-usage” at the hands of the rebels.
 
Conspicuous among those who began crowding the wharves,
and who took their turns going aboard the ships on March 10 and in
the days that followed, were many who had once figured prominently
in the government of the province and in its professional and
commercial life. There were leading churchmen like Henry Caner,

Page 129
Page 129
jurists like Peter Oliver, physicians, educators, and successful
merchants. The elderly Nathaniel Perkins was Boston’s foremost
physician. John Lovell was headmaster of the Boston Latin School.
Attorney James Putnam of Worcester had been John Adams’s
mentor in the law. Foster Hutchinson, jurist and merchant, was the
brother of the former royal governor of Massachusetts, Thomas
Hutchinson. General Timothy Ruggles, a veteran of the French and
Indian War, was a wealthy landowner and outspoken Tory who had
been put in command of three companies of Loyal American
Associators, as they were known, who had helped patrol the streets
during the siege. John Murray and Harrison Gray were prosperous
merchants.
 
A score or more were Harvard graduates, and many were fourth-
or fifth-generation Americans bearing some of the oldest names in
the province, such as Coffin and Chandler. Benjamin Faneuil, who
was departing with a family of three, was the nephew of wealthy
Peter Faneuil, whose many benefactions to Boston had included
Faneuil Hall.
 
These were people of wealth and position among the
conservative element of Massachusetts, people of distinction by and
large, as well as power. But prominent though they were, they were
not the majority of those departing with the fleet. Ultimately, 1,100
Loyalists went aboard the ships, and the greater part were from
every walk of life—shopkeepers, clerks, minor customs officials,
artisans and tradesmen, and their families. According to one study,
382 heads of families were farmers, mechanics, and ordinary
tradesmen. William MacAlpine, printer and bookbinder, declared his
“first and chief objective was to convey his wife in safety to
Scotland.”
 
Among the women listed as heads of families was Hannah
Flucker, the mother of Henry Knox’s wife Lucy, with a household of
six. (Thomas Flucker, Lucy’s father, appears to have departed
earlier.) Margaret Draper, who joined the exodus with a family of five,

Page 130
Page 130
had continued to publish the Loyalist newspaper the Massachusetts
Gazette and Boston Newsletter, after her husband’s death in 1774. It
was the only newspaper available in Boston during the siege.
 
Also listed was Dorcas Griffith, who ran a notorious waterfront
grog shop and was known to be John Hancock’s “discarded”
mistress.
 
Joshua Loring, Jr., was another of those departing, along with the
rebel prisoners he was charged with looking after. But his handsome
wife Elizabeth is not accounted for, suggesting she may have been
provided with more comfortable accommodations aboard the
flagshipChatham with General Howe.
 
Many of the crowd were elderly—the Reverend Caner and Dr.
Perkins were in their seventies—and many more were children or
infants. William Hill, a baker who had supplied bread for the British
troops, went aboard with a family of seventeen.
 
Accommodations on the crowded transports and other ships
were wretched. Foster Hutchinson and his large family were
assigned to steerage. Wealthy Benjamin Hallowell found himself
sharing a cabin with thirty-six others, “men, women, and children,
parents, masters, mistresses, obliged to pig together on the floor,
there being no berths,” until they left the harbor.
 
Appraising the situation, the royal governor of New Hampshire,
John Wentworth, hired a schooner to sail with the fleet and packed
fifty people on board.
 
In the next few days the ships with Loyalists began falling down
the harbor with the tide as far as King’s Road, below Castle Island,
to anchor out of range of the rebel cannon and to provide space for
other vessels to tie up at the wharves. And there the exiles sat,
rocking with the tide, day after day.

Page 131
Page 131
*** 
 
ON MARCH 10, Howe had issued a proclamation ordering
inhabitants to give up all linen and woolen goods that could be of use
to the enemy, and assigned a man named Crean Brush, one of a
Loyalist corps, to see that the order was carried out.
 
Sir [Brush’s official commission read]: I am informed
there are large quantities of goods in the town of Boston,
which, if in the possession of the rebels, would enable them
to carry on the war. And, whereas I have given notice to all
loyal inhabitants to remove such goods from hence, and all
who do not remove them, or deliver them to your care, will
be considered abettors of the rebels, you are hereby
authorized and required to take into your possession all
such goods as answer this description, and to give
certificates to the owners that you have received them for
their use, and will deliver them to the owners’ order,
unavoidable accidents excepted. And you are to make
inquiry if any such goods be secreted in stores, and you are
to seize all such.
 
In effect, Brush (remembered later as “a conceited New York
Tory”) was authorized to take whatever he wanted in return for
worthless certificates. And once he and his men began plundering
the town, gangs with axes, drunken soldiers and sailors rampaged in
the streets, breaking open houses and shops at will. “There never
was such destruction and outrage committed any day before this,”
wrote merchant John Rowe. On a visit to Rowe’s wharf and
warehouse, Brush and his men made off with goods worth more than
2,000 pounds.
 
“Soldiers and sailors plundering,” wrote Deacon Newell on March
13. “Same as above,” he recorded the next day.

Page 132
Page 132
On March 15, Newell and the other selectmen were summoned
to the Province House and told the army would embark that day and
that it would be wise for all remaining citizens to stay in their houses.
If there were any interference with the King’s troops, Howe warned,
he would burn the town. But the wind proved “unfavorable” for
departure.
 
Not until Sunday, March 17, St. Patrick’s Day, did the wind turn
fair and favorable.
 
The troops began moving out at four in the morning, more than
8,000 redcoats marching through the dark, narrow streets of Boston,
as if on parade. By seven the sun was up and ships thronged at the
wharves began lifting sail. By nine o’clock all were under way.
 
“Fine weather and fair wind,” wrote Major Stephen Kemble, a
Loyalist serving with the British. “The finest day in the world,” wrote
an exuberant Archibald Robertson.
 
It was a spectacle such as could only have been imagined until
that morning. There were 120 ships departing with more than 11,000
people packed on board—8,906 King’s troops, 667 women and 553
children, and in addition, waiting down the harbor, were 1,100
Loyalists.
 
“In the course of the forenoon,” wrote James Thacher, “we
enjoyed the unspeakable satisfaction of beholding their whole fleet
under sail, wafting from our shores the dreadful scourge of war.”
People on shore were cheering, weeping. “Surely it is the Lord’s
doings and it is marvelous in our eyes,” wrote Abigail Adams.
 
But then the whole fleet came to anchor at King’s Road and with
the arrival of General Howe’s flagship, Chatham, every ship-of-war
fired a roaring 21-gun salute, and the full 50 guns of theChatham
answered in kind—an ear-splitting reminder of royal might.

Page 133
Page 133
*** 
 
THE FIRST CHEERS from the American lines had been heard as
early as nine that morning, when the men on Prospect Hill and
Dorchester Heights saw clearly what was happening. In no time
small boys came running across the Neck from Boston to deliver the
news that the “lobster backs” were gone at last.
 
Puzzled that British troops appeared still to be manning the
fortifications on Bunker Hill, even as the fleet was getting under way,
General Sullivan mounted his horse and cantered off for a closer
look, only to discover that they were hay dummies set up by the
fleeing redcoats.
 
It was early afternoon when the first troops from Roxbury—500
men who had already had smallpox and were thus immune—
crossed the Neck and marched into Boston, drums beating, flags
flying, and led by Artemus Ward on horseback.
 
By all rights, it should have been Washington who made the
triumphal entry, but in a characteristically gracious gesture he gave
the honor to Ward, the “thorough New England man” who had been
his predecessor as commander and the first and most persistent in
favoring a move on Dorchester Heights—though how much this may
have figured in Washington’s decision is impossible to know.
 
Washington remained at Cambridge where he attended Sunday
services conducted by the chaplain of Knox’s artillery regiment, the
Reverend Abiel Leonard of Connecticut, who chose for his text
Exodus 14:25: “And they took off their chariot wheels, that they
drove them heavily; so that the Egyptians said, Let us flee from the
face of Israel; for the Lord fighteth for them against the Egyptians.”
 
Washington rode into Boston the following day, Monday, March
18, and took a close look at the place for the first time, after eight
and a half months of studying it through the lenses of his telescope

Page 134
Page 134
almost every day in every kind of light and from every possible
angle. He came without fanfare. His purpose, as he reported to
Congress, was to appraise the damage done and see what the
enemy had left behind.
 
The town, although it had “suffered greatly,” was not in as bad
shape as he had expected, he wrote to John Hancock, “and I have a
particular pleasure in being able to inform you, sir, that your house
has received no damage worth mentioning.” Other fine houses had
been much abused by the British, windows broken, furnishings
smashed or stolen, books destroyed. But at Hancock’s Beacon Hill
mansion all was in order, as General Sullivan also attested, and
there was a certain irony in this, since the house had been occupied
and maintained by the belligerent General James Grant, who had
wanted to lay waste to every town on the New England coast.
“Though I believe,” wrote Sullivan, “the brave general had made free
with some of the articles in the [wine] cellar.”
 
The last desperate efforts of the British to destroy whatever could
be of use to the Americans were in evidence everywhere—spiked
cannon, shattered gun carriages and wagons. Ships left behind at
the waterfront had been scuttled, their masts cut away. And as Dr.
Thacher noted with concern, smallpox was “lurking” still in several
parts of town.
 
But the surprise for Washington was how much had not been
destroyed or carried off, so great had been the chaos and rush of the
enemy in the last days. An inventory of British goods compiled by
Thomas Mifflin, now the quartermaster general, listed 5,000 bushels
of wheat at the Hancock wharf, 1,000 bushels of beans and 10 tons
of hay at the town granary, 35,000 feet of good planks at one of the
lumberyards. There were more than a hundred horses left by the
British. Indeed, there was nearly everything that was needed but
beef, gunpowder, and hard money. Washington estimated the total
value at perhaps 40,000 pounds, but after further examination that
figure would be raised to 50,000 pounds.

Page 135
Page 135
The other surprise was the strength of the enemy’s defenses.
The town was “amazingly strong…almost impregnable, every
avenue fortified,” he wrote. But if this gave rise to any second
thoughts about his repeated desire to send men against such
defenses, or the wisdom of his council of war in restraining him,
Washington kept such thoughts to himself.
 
Just as he had shown no signs of despair when prospects looked
bleak, he now showed no elation in what he wrote or in his outward
manner or comments.
 
On March 20, Washington put Nathanael Greene temporarily in
command of the town, while he returned to Cambridge to
concentrate on his next move. Certain that Howe intended to sail for
New York, he had already sent five regiments in that direction. But
with the British fleet still hovering below Castle Island, he dared not
send more, and worried now that Howe’s withdrawal might be a trick,
that the plan was to come ashore somewhere near Braintree and
double back to outflank Dorchester and Roxbury.
 
On the night of March 20, Boston and the whole south shore
were rocked by a tremendous explosion when British engineers
Montresor and Robertson blew up Castle William. The morning after,
in heavy snowfall, Howe’s fleet dropped still further down from the
town, to anchor in Nantasket Road off Braintree.
 
Those on board the ships were as puzzled by Howe’s intentions
as anyone. “We do not know where we are going, but are in great
distress,” one Loyalist wrote. They had been cooped up now in the
harbor for nearly two weeks. One man, wracked with despair, threw
himself overboard and was drowned. But to most on board, any
destination would be welcome after what they had been through.
“You know the proverbial expression, ‘neither hell, hull nor Halifax’
can afford worse shelter than Boston,” wrote an officer in description
of the prevailing mood.

Page 136
Page 136
At last, on March 27, ten days after the evacuation of Boston, the
fleet was again under way, and this time heading for the open sea.
When several Loyalists gathered at the rail of one of the ships
expressed confidence that they would be returning soon in triumph,
a prominent Boston merchant, George Erving, turned and said
solemnly, “Gentlemen, not one of you will ever see that place again,”
words long remembered by the five-year-old son who stood beside
him.
 
Merchant Erving had sided with the Loyalists primarily because
he thought the rebellion would fail. But the success of Washington’s
army at Boston had changed his mind, as it had for many.
 
By day’s end the fleet had disappeared over the horizon, bound
not for New York but for Halifax.
 
IV
Contents - Prev / Next
 
FAST RIDERS CARRIED THE NEWS to Providence and
Newport, Hartford and New Haven, New York, Philadelphia, then on
to Maryland, Virginia, the Carolinas, and Georgia, 1,100 arduous
miles from Boston. For all who believed in the American cause, it
was the first thrilling news of the war.
 
“The joy of our friends in Boston, on seeing the victorious and
gallant troops of their country enter the town almost on the heels of
their barbarous oppressors was inexplicably great,” reported the
New Haven Journal.
 
“The British,” said the New York Constitutional Gazette, “were
completely disgraced.”

Page 137
Page 137
Free men under arms had triumphed, with all the world watching,
and in the “admirable and beloved” Washington, the country had a
hero, as the citizens of Philadelphia and members of Congress read
in the Evening Post of March 30:
 
To the wisdom, firmness, intrepidity, and military abilities
of our admirable and beloved general, his Excellency
George Washington, Esq.; to the assiduity, skill, and
bravery of our other worthy generals and officers of the
army; and to the hardiness and gallantry of the soldiery, is
to be ascribed, under God, the glory and success of our
arms, in driving from one of the strongest holds in America,
so considerable a part of the British army.
 
Congress ordered a gold medal struck in Washington’s honor.
“The disinterested and patriotic principles which led you to the field
have also led you to glory,” read a formal letter of gratitude.
 
Those pages in the annals of America will record your
title to be a conspicuous place in the temple of fame, which
shall inform posterity, that under your directions, an
undisciplined band of husbandmen, in the course of a few
months, became soldiers.
 
“What an occurrence is this to be known in Europe?” wrote
Elbridge Gerry of the Massachusetts delegation in Congress. “How
are Parliamentary pretensions to be reconciled to facts?” What was
especially wondrous was that the British had been driven from
Boston by only “about the thirtieth part of the power of America.”
 
It would be six weeks before the news reached London, and on
May 6, a storm of criticism and recrimination erupted in Parliament,
led by the same ardent Whigs whose real power was no more than it
had ever been. In the House of Commons, Colonel Isaac Barre, Lord
Cavendish, and Edmund Burke spoke severely against the

Page 138
Page 138
administration, as Lord North and Lord Germain defended the
management of the war.
 
In the House of Lords, in defense of the ministry, the Earl of
Suffolk patiently and correctly explained that abandoning Boston had
been the established policy since the previous October.
 
“Let this transaction be dressed in what garb you please,”
answered the Duke of Manchester, “the fact remains that the army
which was sent to reduce the province of Massachusetts Bay has
been driven from the capital, and that the standard of the provincial
army now waves in triumph over the walls of Boston.”
 
At the headquarters in Cambridge, the Boston selectmen and a
delegation from the legislature of Massachusetts came to offer their
gratitude to Washington for saving the town “with so little effusion of
human blood,” and to shower him with praise. Harvard, in the spirit of
the moment, conferred an honorary degree on the man who had had
almost no formal schooling.
 
Responding to such tributes, Washington was duly modest and
gracious, and in truth they meant more than he showed. He was
happy to “hear from different quarters that my reputation stands fair,”
he wrote privately to his brother. He hoped it would be remembered
also that none of what happened had come easily or predictably.
 
We have maintained our ground against the enemy
under [a]…want of powder, and we have disbanded one
army and recruited another within musket shot of two and
twenty regiments, the flower of the British army, when our
strength has been little if any superior to theirs, and at last
have beat them in a shameful and precipitate manner, out
of a place the strongest by nature on this continent,
strengthened and fortified in the best manner and at an
enormous expense.

Page 139
Page 139
He was proud of the part he had played and wanted to say
something about that, at least to his brother, and about the
misconceptions he had been obliged to maintain.
 
I believe I may, with great truth, affirm that no man
perhaps since the first institution of armies ever
commanded one under more difficult circumstances than I
have done…. Many of my difficulties and distresses were of
so peculiar a cast that in order to conceal them from the
enemy, I was obliged to conceal them from my friends,
indeed from my own army, thereby subjecting my conduct
to interpretations unfavorable to my character.
 
An attack by Howe on Dorchester Heights had been his “utmost
wish,” and he could “scarce forbear lamenting the disappointment”
he felt. Like others, he attributed the storm of March 5 to the
intervening hand of God. He did not “lament or repine at any act of
Providence,” he told Joseph Reed, for “in great measure” he had
become a convert to the view of the poet Alexander Pope that
“whatever is, is right.”
 
For the Loyalists who had fled with the enemy, he had only
contempt. “Unhappy wretches! Deluded mortals!” he called them. He
had heard of some committing suicide and thought it would be well if
more did the same. “By all accounts a more miserable set of beings
does not exist.”
 
But then he had little time to dwell on such matters. “I am hurried
in dispatching one brigade after another for New York and preparing
for my own departure,” he informed Reed.
 
*** 
 
THE SIEGE had been the stunning success it was proclaimed,
and Washington’s performance had been truly exceptional. He had
indeed bested Howe and his regulars, and despite insufficient arms

Page 140
Page 140
and ammunition, insufficient shelter, sickness, inexperienced officers,
lack of discipline, clothing, and money. His patience with Congress
had been exemplary, and while he had been saved repeatedly by his
council of war from his headlong determination to attack, and thus
from almost certain catastrophe, he had accepted the judgment of
the council with no ill temper or self-serving histrionics.
 
He had kept his head, kept his health and his strength, bearing
up under a weight of work and worry that only a few could have
carried.
 
Having struggled with his festering dislike of New Englanders, he
had proven a keen judge of character and ability and pinned his
hopes on such untried born-and-bred Yankees as Greene and Knox.
Without Knox, there would have been no triumph at Dorchester
Heights. Henry Knox, in sum, had saved the day. And while
Nathanael Greene had not played so spectacular a part as Knox, the
troops under his command were distinguished as the best disciplined
in the army, and he himself had emerged as Washington’s ideal
lieutenant. In Greene and Knox, Washington had found the best men
possible, men of ability and energy who, like Washington, would
never lose sight of what the war was about, no matter what was to
come. All important, too, was the devotion and loyalty these two
young officers felt for Washington.
 
After the “miracle” of Dorchester Heights, Washington was never
again to speak ill of New Englanders because they were New
Englanders.
 
He had no illusions about the gravity of what lay ahead. Nor did
many of the wisest heads in Congress. The humiliation the British
had been subjected to, John Hancock warned Washington, could
well make them an even more formidable foe.
 
What may be their views, it is indeed impossible to tell,
with any degree of exactness [Hancock wrote]. We have all

Page 141
Page 141
the reason, however, from the rage of disappointment and
revenge, to expect the worst. Nor have I any doubt, that as
far as their power extends, they will inflict every species of
calamity upon us.
 
But great political change was in the offing, Washington sensed,
as he confided to Joseph Reed in one of the last letters written from
his Cambridge headquarters. This he attributed in good part to the
pamphletCommon Sense, published earlier in the year, the author of
which, Thomas Paine, was as yet unknown.
 
My countrymen, I know from their form of government
and steady attachment heretofore to royalty, will come
reluctantly into the idea of independency [Washington
wrote], but time and persecution brings many wonderful
things to pass, and by private letters which I have lately
received from Virginia, I findCommon Sense is working a
powerful change there in the minds of many men.
 
“The sun never shined on a cause of greater worth,” Paine had
written. “Everything that is right or reasonable pleads for separation.”
 
*** 
 
ONE AFTER ANOTHER the regiments were departing for New
York. An army that had moved not at all for nearly a year was on the
march, leaving New England for the first time.
 
The huge bastions that encircled Boston were left standing, but
only a holding force under General Ward remained to keep watch.
 
To most of the men the prospect of being on the move was
extremely welcome. Spirits were higher than they had ever been.
The soldier’s life, many decided, had much to be said for it after all.

Page 142
Page 142
Most of those in the ranks had no idea where they were bound,
but were glad to be going. One soldier, John Lapham of Duxbury,
wrote to his “Honored Parents” to send a pair of shoes as quickly as
possible, “for I expect that I shall march off soon, but whither we
shall go I do not know nor can I tell.”
 
Generals Heath and Sullivan and their forces had already
departed. General Greene and five regiments followed on April 1.
Three days later, on Thursday, April 4, Washington rode off from
Cambridge.

Page 143
Page 143
Part II

Page 144
Page 144
Fateful Summer
 
The fate of unborn millions will now depend, under God, on the
courage and conduct of this army.
—General George Washington
July 2, 1776
 
Chapter Four The Lines are Drawn
Contents - Prev / Next
 
 
 
I would not be understood that I should choose to march, but as I
am engaged in this glorious cause, I am will[ing] to go where I am
called.
—Lieutenant Joseph Hodgkins
 
I

Page 145
Page 145
Contents - Prev / Next
 
FOR TWO WEEKS AND MORE, the army was on the move, its
long, irregular columns winding through the untroubled countryside
of lower Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut, where open
fields and low-lying wooded hills were only now showing the first
faint signs of spring.
 
In scores of market towns and crossroad hamlets the local
citizenry came out to cheer and offer food and drink, or just to stand
at gateposts and kitchen doorways taking in the spectacle of so
many of their countrymen armed and on the march, whole regiments
passing for hours at a time. Large armies—large armies of any kind
—were an unfamiliar sight to Americans. No army of such size as
this had ever been seen before anywhere in the colonies.
 
And the army was stepping along “with great expedition,” as
General Heath wrote, with high-ranking uniformed officers like Heath
on horseback, stragglers and trains of heavy baggage wagons
struggling to keep up. Hurry was the order of the day, every day. He
must “hasten his march” to New York, Nathanael Greene had been
instructed by Washington. Henry Knox and his artillery were to move
“as speedily as possible” by “the directest road thither.” Several
times Washington referred to his own “extreme hurry.”
 
On April 5, the day the commander paraded into Providence, it
seemed all Rhode Island had come to catch sight of him. Two of
Greene’s regiments served as escort (none were to turn out “except
those dressed in uniforms,” all “washed, both face and hands clean,
their beards shaved, their hair combed and powdered”). At an
elegant banquet provided by the “gentlemen of the town” at Hackers
Hall, Washington was feted and toasted befitting a national hero. But
at first light the next day he was on his way again, with no time to
spare.

Page 146
Page 146
John Greenwood, the fifer, would remember everyone moving “at
great speed.” A five-or six-mile march before breakfast was usual,
fifteen to twenty miles a day about average, however seasonably wet
and unpredictable the weather or miserable the roads, which, with
the frost still coming out of the ground, could be slick with mud even
on fair days.
 
On days of “wet weather” and “very bad traveling,” recorded a
soldier named Solomon Nash marching with a Massachusetts
artillery company, they made only ten to fourteen miles, while moving
ten brass field pieces.
 
Marching did not trouble him anything like he had expected,
Lieutenant Joseph Hodgkins wrote to his Sarah after a few days on
the road.
 
I am willing to serve my country in the best way and
manner that I am capable of, and as our enemy are gone
from us, I expect I must follow them…. I would not be
understood that I should choose to march, but as I am
engaged in this glorious cause, I am will[ing] to go where I
am called.
 
He had vowed to “march with cheerfulness,” and plainly the
spirits of the whole army were greatly improved by being on the
move and by the warm reception along the way.
 
“I am a good deal tired of marching,” he confessed after crossing
into Connecticut, “though we get very good entertainment
[hospitality] in general. People are very kind to us.” Like the majority
of Massachusetts men, Hodgkins had never been so far from home.
 
Most of the regiments marched only as far as New London. From
there they were to proceed by water down Long Island Sound,
keeping close to the Connecticut shore to avoid enemy cruisers. But
with movement of any kind subject always to the elements—and

Page 147
Page 147
never more than by water—precious days were lost waiting for
favorable winds. Or at great risk ships embarked in the teeth of foul
weather. On April 11, Nathanael Greene and his brigade pushed off
in a blinding snow squall. Four days later, with still no word from
them, Washington, who was by then in New York, reported to
Congress that he feared for their lives. As it was, Greene and his
men did not reach New York until April 17.
 
By whatever means they traveled, all seemed to understand what
lay ahead. They were going to meet the enemy on the field of battle
for the first time. They were headed for “troble,” as Hodgkins wrote.
 
No one knew how many British there might be, yet few let that
bother them. An enthusiastic new recruit in the Connecticut ranks, a
farm boy named Joseph Plumb Martin, would recall, “I never spent a
thought about numbers. The Americans were invincible in my
opinion.”
 
As another soldier remembered, there was scarcely a militia man
who did not think himself equal to two or three of the British.
 
*** 
 
APPRAISING THE SITUATION from his new headquarters at No.
1 Broadway, a magnificent town house just back from the Battery at
the southernmost tip of New York, Washington had no illusions about
the difficulties to be faced. He was gravely, realistically apprehensive
about the magnitude of the enemy force en route. He fretted over
when their ships might appear, and how, with no naval strength, to
defend a city bounded by navigable rivers on two sides and a harbor
of a size sufficient to accommodate the largest fleet imaginable.
 
New York was not at all like Boston, geographically, strategically,
and in other ways. At Boston, Washington had known exactly where
the enemy was, and who they were, and what was needed to
contain them. At Boston the British had been largely at his mercy,

Page 148
Page 148
and especially once winter set in. Here, with their overwhelming
naval might and absolute control of the waters, they could strike at
will and from almost any direction. The time and place of battle
would be entirely their choice, and this was the worry overriding all
others.
 
General Lee, after appraising the situation in February, had been
extremely dubious. “What to do with the city? I own [it] puzzles me. It
is so encircled with deep navigable water that whoever commands
the sea must command the town,” he had succinctly summed up the
situation.
 
Washington, however, expressed no such misgivings. He would
later tell Congress he had not a doubt that he could defend the city,
and he was eager to do so, for all his anxieties. New York had “vast
importance,” he wrote, because control of its harbor could mean
control of the Hudson River and thus the whole Hudson–Lake
Champlain corridor north to Canada, which if seized by the enemy
could isolate New England from the other colonies—which, in fact,
was exactly the British intention.
 
But the decision to make a stand at New York was based more
on Washington’s political judgment than on military strategy. It was
his political sense that Congress and the patriots of New York
expected every effort to be made to hold the city, and that anything
less would have devastating political effect on the people at large
and thus on the American cause, which Washington fervently hoped
would soon become the cause of American independence.
 
Possibly he had discussed the subject of New York with members
of Congress the previous year, before leaving to take command at
Cambridge. And John Adams’s letter of January 6, describing New
York as “a kind of key to the whole continent” and affirming that “no
effort to secure it ought to be omitted,” was anything but ambiguous.

Page 149
Page 149
Still, Congress had issued no specific directive to defend the city.
The decision was Washington’s alone and he promised
unequivocally “to exert myself to the utmost to frustrate the designs
of the enemy.”
 
At Boston, where the comparatively few Loyalists of
Massachusetts had either fled the country or were bottled up with the
British, there had never been a serious threat from “internal foes,” in
Washington’s phrase. (The spy Benjamin Church had turned out to
be an aberration.) In New York the atmosphere was entirely different.
The city remained divided and tense. Loyalist, or Tory, sentiment,
while less conspicuous than it had been, was widespread and
ranged from the militant to the disaffected to those hesitant about
declaring themselves patriots for a variety of reasons, trade and
commerce not being the least of them.
 
Two-thirds of the property in New York belonged to Tories. The
year before, in 1775, more than half the New York Chamber of
Commerce were avowed Loyalists. When on a Sunday in January
1776 a prominent pastor, the Reverend John Rodgers, preached an
impassioned sermon from the pulpit of the Presbyterian Church on
Wall Street, exhorting young men to be brave and fight for the cause
of their country, he was himself being notably brave in speaking out.
“We are involved in the calamities of a civil war,” he had said, and so
it felt in New York.
 
The city and Long Island would provide Washington with five
regiments by summer and they would be led by officers bearing
prominent names—Livingston, Fish, Roosevelt, Remsen, and
Cowenhoven, among others—but the numbers of Loyalists still in the
city were considerable, and they included men and women from all
levels of society.
 
Across the East River on Long Island, in the villages and the rich
outlying farmlands, where the population was still mostly Dutch,
Loyalists were a decided majority. Staten Island, at the far end of the

Page 150
Page 150
harbor, or the Upper Bay, was another Loyalist stronghold. Thus the
potential for conspiracy, sabotage, or organized armed resistance
was all too real. At the moment, armed Loyalist bands were in hiding
in the swamps of Long Island, awaiting the chance to take action.
 
For months British warships, including the 64-gun Asia, had been
a formidable presence, anchored in the Upper Bay, reminders that
the city was entirely at their mercy. It was only on April 8, just a week
before Washington’s arrival, that theAsia and its entourage withdrew
to the outer approaches to the harbor beyond the Narrows, the water
passage between Long Island and Staten Island. On board the
King’s ship Duchess of Gordon, William Tryon, a seasoned soldier-
politician who was the royal governor of New York, maintained a
headquarters and was believed to be secretly directing Loyalist
operations.
 
At Boston, Washington had benefited greatly from a steady
supply of valuable intelligence coming out of the besieged town,
while Howe had known little or nothing of Washington’s strengths or
intentions. Here, with so much of the population still loyal to the king,
the situation was the reverse.
 
Washington’s New England army was intact, to be sure—
exhausted from its march, as he reported to Congress, but intact and
in place. In addition, new battalions had arrived from Connecticut,
New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, and still more were expected from
Maryland and Delaware. All were urgently needed, but they also
compounded the threat of regional animosity and discord, which
Washington still feared might tear the army and the country apart.
“We have nothing, my dear sir, to depend upon, but the protection of
a kind Providence and unanimity among ourselves,” he wrote to
John Adams from his Broadway headquarters.
 
Furthermore, as he knew, discipline was hardly
improved, and too many of the new troops were raw
recruits as unruly as those of the summer before. Some

Page 151
Page 151
who were lauded as shining examples of patriotism looked
hardly fit for battle, like the Connecticut unit comprised
entirely of “aged gentlemen.”
 
When they were ordered to New York [reads an old account] this
company was the first that reached the place of rendezvous. They
were twenty-four in number; and their united ages reached one
thousand. They were all married men, and left behind a hundred and
fifty-nine children and grandchildren.
 
Nor did the look and manner of Washington’s New England
troops necessarily inspire confidence among those from other
colonies. In the stilted phrasing of a young captain from
Pennsylvania, Alexander Graydon, “The appearance of things was
not much calculated to excite sanguine expectations in the mind of
the sober observer.” To Graydon, who in what he wrote did little to
conceal his feelings of superiority, the Yankees were a “miserably
constituted, ”“unwarlike” lot who did “not entirely come up to the
ideas we had formed of the heroes of Lexington and Bunker Hill.”
Most officers were still indistinguishable from their men. Deportment
seemed altogether absent.
 
Not until the arrival of the men from Marblehead under Colonel
John Glover did Captain Graydon see any New England troops that
met his approval. “But even in this regiment,” he noted, “there were a
number of Negroes, which to persons unaccustomed to such
associations had a disagreeable, degrading effect.”
 
One further large and important difference between New York
and the experience at Boston was also clear: this time there would
be little call for councils of war to decide whether or not to fight.
 
*** 
 
WASHINGTON HAD ARRIVED in the city with no ceremony at
midday, Saturday, April 13, and went directly to work at the

Page 152
Page 152
Broadway headquarters. Some days later, after Martha Washington
arrived, they would establish a country residence at a beautiful
estate overlooking the Hudson River, the Abraham Mortier house
(later known as Richmond Hill) two miles north, beyond the city
limits.
 
But No. 1 Broadway remained the commander’s base of
operations. Known also as the Kennedy Mansion, it was a famous
New York landmark. It had been built a generation earlier by a
Scottish immigrant and successful New York land speculator named
Archibald Kennedy and had remained the home of a son, Captain
Archibald Kennedy of the Royal Navy, until his recent departure for
England. The house fronted on Bowling Green and was considered
the height of elegance, with a grand stairway, a banquet hall, and a
parlor fifty feet long. A garden to the rear reached down to the shore
of the Hudson and from a rooftop platform and cupola, one could see
for miles in every direction.
 
As at Cambridge, Washington insisted on having his military
“family” in residence with him and thus on duty all the time.
 
Unfamiliar with the terrain, Washington set about inspecting the
fortifications begun earlier by General Lee, works that had been
subsequently carried on under General William Alexander of New
Jersey, better known as Lord Stirling, after Congress sent Lee to
take command in South Carolina. Lord Stirling was a rich, socially
prominent, hard-driving, hard-drinking patriot who at age fifty-eight
looked the part of commander and claimed his title as a Scottish earl
through his father. The claim was questionable, but sincere on his
part and generally accepted by his fellow officers and the troops he
led. Washington thought well of him and with good reason.
 
Lee and Stirling had had too little time and too few troops to do
the job. Men of the town had been pressed into labor, including large
numbers of slaves, but this was hardly enough. “It will require at

Page 153
Page 153
least eight thousand men to put this place in any posture of
defense,” Stirling had stressed.
 
Washington found the defenses only about half done, and even
with the troops he had, he knew more were needed. Crowding the
streets of the city, the army seemed an overwhelming multitude. The
soldiers themselves were emboldened by their numbers. But only
half were fit for duty and Washington worried exceedingly over what
the toll from disease would be with the return of warm weather, and
from such dissipations as were now readily at hand. Washington had
seen enough of New York on prior visits to dislike and distrust the
city as the most sinful place in America, a not uncommon view.
 
Larger than Boston but smaller than Philadelphia, New York had
a peacetime population of perhaps 20,000 people crowded into an
area of less than a square mile, less than a tenth of the Island of
Manhattan—or York Island, as it was then known—which from the
Battery to its northern boundary at the Harlem River reached nearly
eleven miles. That far larger stretch north of the city, known as the
Outward, was a mix of woods, streams, marshes, and great rocky
patches interspersed with a few small farms and large country
estates, all the way to King’s Bridge, where a narrow wooden bridge
over the Harlem connected the island to the mainland.
 
Normally it was a city of thriving commerce, shipbuilding, and
seagoing trade, and with much to see and talk about. “The
inhabitants are in general brisk and lively,” wrote one visitor. The
women were “handsome,” he recorded—as did others new to the
city—though, he added, “it rather hurts a European eye to see so
many Negro slaves upon the streets.”
 
Broadway, straight and wide, was the grand thoroughfare lined
with shade trees and fine houses and churches. Queen Street, close
to the crowded East River wharves, was the bustling business
center. City Hall stood on Wall Street, or “in” Wall Street, as people
said.

Page 154
Page 154
Henry Knox, stopping at New York for the first time on his way to
Ticonderoga in November, had admired the “principle streets much
wider than ours” and brick houses “better built than in Boston.” New
Yorkers, however, were another matter, as he reported to his adored
Lucy:
 
The people—why the people are magnificent: in their
carriages, which are numerous, in their house furniture,
which is fine, in their pride and conceit, which are inimitable,
in their profaneness, which is intolerable, in the want of
principle, which is prevalent, in their Toryism, which is
insufferable.
 
But the city had greatly changed. It had become an armed camp,
and thousands of people—perhaps a third of the population—had
fled, fearing it was soon to be the scene of terrible calamity. One
would “think the city almost evacuated,” wrote a dispirited resident.
Business was at a standstill.
 
Large numbers of troops were quartered in vacant buildings and
many of the finest mansions. (“Oh, the houses of New York, if you
could see the insides of them!” grieved another resident.) King’s
College, west of the Commons, one of the largest, handsomest
buildings in town, had been taken over as an army hospital, once the
library books were removed, lest the soldiers burn them for fuel.
 
For the troops from New England a roof overhead of any kind
seemed the height of luxury, and New York, however changed, a
center of wonders. Joseph Hodgkins decided, “This city York
exceeds all places that ever I saw,” though he found the living
“excessive dear.”
 
“They have all the simplicity of ploughmen,” a New Yorker wrote
of the Yankee soldiers. And according to one local paper, the New
York Packet, they were unexpectedly well behaved, “their civility to

Page 155
Page 155
the inhabitants very commendable.” They attended prayers “evening
and morning regularly,” their officers setting the example, the paper
noted. “On Lord’s day they attend public worship twice, and their
deportment in the house of God is such as becomes the place.”
 
But an earnest young Presbyterian chaplain with the New Jersey
troops, a graduate of the College of New Jersey at Princeton, Philip
Vickers Fithian, found the level of piety alarmingly below his
expectations and worried what the consequences might be to the
American cause of so many of all ranks so habitually taking the
name of the Lord in vain. “But alas, swearing abounds, all classes
swear,” he noted sadly.
 
Lieutenant Isaac Bangs of Massachusetts, who in his journal
would provide one of the fullest accounts of unfolding events that
spring and summer, wrote of his walking tours about town and such
sights to be seen as the waterworks and the larger-than-life
equestrian statue of King George III, which dominated Bowling
Green in front of Washington’s headquarters. “The design was in
imitation of one of the Roman emperors,” Bangs wrote. The King
was represented “about a third larger than a natural man,” and both
horse and rider were “neatly constructed of lead [and] gilt with gold,”
and “raised on a pedestal of white marble” fifteen feet high.
 
With twenty or more churches of differing denominations to
choose from (something unknown in Massachusetts), the lieutenant
attended as many as possible—an “English” church (most likely
Trinity Church on Broadway, which was Church of England), a
Congregational meeting, a high Dutch church (probably Old Dutch
Church on Garden Street), where only Dutch was spoken, and the
city’s one synagogue, Shearith Israel, on Mill Street. He liked the
Dutch church best, he decided, preferring the priest’s manifest piety
to the “pomp” of the English church, though he understood not a
word of the Dutch sermon. On a later Sunday he and a friend
attended a Quaker meeting, but after sitting through two hours

Page 156
Page 156
during which not a word was said, they happily repaired to a nearby
tavern.
 
In his conscientious way, Bangs proceeded to investigate the
darker side of city life that so worried his commander, embarking into
the section called the Holy Ground, a foul slum and brothel district
west of the Commons, much of which was owned by Trinity Church,
hence the name. By some estimates as many as five hundred
prostitutes plied their trade there. Robinson Street especially was
notorious for its rough gin shops and bawdy houses. If there was
trouble after dark in New York, it was nearly always in the Holy
Ground.
 
Bangs, a Harvard graduate with training in medicine, had initiated
his own tour of inspection out of concern for the health of his men—
though also out of curiosity, as he conceded—and was appalled by
what he saw.
 
“When I visited them [the prostitutes] at first I thought nothing
could exceed them for impudence and immodesty, but I found the
more I was acquainted with them the more they excelled in their
brutality.” How any man could desire “intimate connection” with such
“creatures” was more than he could comprehend. But so it was, and
among officers and soldiers alike, “till the fatal disorder [syphilis]
seized them.”
 
On April 22, less than a week after the Continental Army moved
into the city, all hell erupted in the Holy Ground. The mutilated bodies
of two soldiers were found concealed in a brothel. One of the victims
had been “castrated in a barbarous manner,” as Bangs recorded. In
furious retaliation, gangs of soldiers went on a rampage, tearing to
pieces the building where the murders had taken place. Some days
later, the remains of “an old whore” were discovered dumped in a
privy, “so long dead that she was rotten,” as Bangs also recorded.

Page 157
Page 157
Washington condemned all such “riotous behavior.” Were it to
happen again, the perpetrators would be subjected to the severest
punishment. If they resisted arrest, they would be “treated as a
common enemy,” meaning they would be shot dead on the spot.
 
He ordered a curfew and warned that any soldier found
“disguised with liquor” would be punished. Still, it seems, business
was business and not to be intruded upon. “Every brutal gratification
can be so easily indulged in this place,” wrote William Tudor of
Boston, Washington’s judge advocate, to his fiancée, “that the army
will be debauched here in a month more than in twelve at
Cambridge.”
 
The whores, the trulls, “these bitchfoxly, jades, hags, strums,” as
wrote another officer, Colonel Loammi Baldwin, continued “their
employ which is become very lucrative.” Baldwin, an apple grower
from Massachusetts, was one of the officers dispatched to the Holy
Ground with military patrols, under orders to deal only with drunken
or unruly soldiers—“hell’s work,” as he said. Since almost no soldiers
had uniforms, it was all but impossible to distinguish who among the
drunks and brawlers were soldiers and who were not, in dark,
shadowed streets lit only by dim oil lamps. Baldwin and his patrol
broke up “knots of men and women” fighting, cursing, “crying
‘Murder!’ ” and “hurried them off to the Provost dungeon by half
dozens.” Some were punished and some “got off clear—hell’s work.”
 
Meantime, the army was “growing sickly.” Smallpox appeared
and several soldiers died. Frightful rumors swept through the city,
including one that the British had returned to Boston and taken
Dorchester Heights. With more bad news from Canada, Washington
was directed by Congress to send reinforcements. When
approximately 3,000 men under General Sullivan departed by ship
up the Hudson, Washington informed Congress he had to have at
least 10,000 more.

Page 158
Page 158
Drill went on in the streets and on the Commons. Work on
defenses continued under steadily increasing pressure.
 
*** 
 
GENERAL LEE, considered an expert on defense, had
concluded that without command of the sea New York could not be
held. Still, as he had said, it could be an “advantageous” battlefield. If
the British were determined to take the city, they could be made to
pay a heavy toll.
 
Crucial to Lee’s plan was the defense of that part of Long Island
directly across the East River and particularly the imposing river
bluffs near the tiny hamlet called Brooklyn, which was also spelled
Breucklyn, Brucklyn, Broucklyn, Brookland, or Brookline, and
amounted to no more than seven or eight houses and an old Dutch
church that stood in the middle of the Jamaica Road, the main road
inland from the Brooklyn ferry landing.
 
From the New York side of the river, the village was out of sight,
three-quarters of a mile back from the partly wooded “noble bluff”
known as Columbia Heights or Brooklyn Heights. All one saw looking
across from New York, as Washington frequently did, was the steep
face of the bluff rising above the river and crowned now by the
beginnings of Fort Stirling, and to the right, also on the brow of the
bluff, the country house of Philip Livingston, a wealthy New York
importer and delegate to the Continental Congress.
 
When finished, the large square bastion of Fort Stirling, mounting
eight cannon, was expected to command the East River and New
York just as Dorchester Heights commanded Boston and its harbor.
From Brooklyn Heights one looked down on all of New York City, the
harbor, the rivers, and the long, low hills of New Jersey beyond. It
was one of the grandest panoramas to be seen on the entire Atlantic
seaboard.

Page 159
Page 159
The East River, no river at all but a saltwater estuary nearly a
mile wide, was famously difficult to navigate, with swift, contrary
currents and tides of as much as six feet. Because of winds and
tides, ferryboats to and from Brooklyn often had great difficulty. Even
with three men pulling at the oars, crossing the river could take over
an hour.
 
The Hudson, or North, River was greater still, more than two
miles wide, and so, as Lee had acknowledged, impossible to keep
closed to the enemy. But with batteries along the New York shore of
the Hudson, the British might think twice before risking their valuable
ships.
 
Washington agreed with the general outlines of the plan,
including, most importantly, the premise that an effective defense of
New York City would depend on the defense of Long Island. If New
York was the key to the continent, then Long Island was the key to
New York, and the key to the defense of Long Island was Brooklyn
Heights. “For should the enemy take possession of N[ew] York when
Long Island is in our hands,” Lee had written to Washington, “they
will find it almost impossible to subsist.”
 
That New York or Long Island, or both, could be a trap, neither of
them seems to have seriously considered, or at least acknowledged
for the record.
 
Given the importance of Long Island, Washington put General
Greene in command there, and by the first week of May, Greene and
his men, with the addition of a Pennsylvania rifle company, were
encamped at Brooklyn. In little time there were several thousand
troops on Long Island—which seemed a great many, but were less
than a third of those in and around New York—and their efforts
began to show. As would be said, the experience at Boston had
made them “veterans at least of the spade.”

Page 160
Page 160
In addition to Fort Stirling, three more forts were under
construction on the other, or eastern, side of the hamlet of Brooklyn,
these intended as a defense of Fort Stirling and Brooklyn Heights. If
the British were to come ashore on the broad beaches to the west, in
the vicinity of the village of Gravesend—as was widely expected—
and attack from the open plains to the south, this line of defense
would check their drive for the river.
 
To the left was Fort Putnam, named for Rufus Putnam, who
marked out most of the fortifications. In the middle was star-shaped
Fort Greene, mounting six cannon and commanding the Jamaica
Road. On the right was Fort Box, named for one of Greene’s officers,
Major Daniel Box.
 
Each of these bastions was to be surrounded with a broad ditch
and all were to be connected by a line of entrenchments reaching a
mile or more. With hundreds of axmen at work, trees were cut to give
full sweep to the fire of the cannon, and along most of the line,
pointed stakes—pickets—were driven into the ground. Farther still to
the right, at an isolated point on the Upper Bay called Red Hook, a
fifth defense, Fort Defiance, was being built. From Fort Putnam on
the left to Fort Defiance on the right was nearly three miles.
 
As the days grew longer and steadily warmer, the hard labor
continued with unrelenting determination. Any soldier caught leaving
the works without proper liberty would do “constant duty” for a week,
Greene warned. One Rhode Island officer riding herd on the men,
Colonel Ezekiel Cornell, became known as “Old Snarl.”
 
Greene himself was tireless in his efforts. Nothing escaped his
notice. He was everywhere on horseback surveying the work, or
scouting the lay of the land, making himself familiar with the whole
terrain from Brooklyn to Gravesend, and particularly the densely
wooded ridge about a mile and a half to the south known as the
Heights of Gowan, which ran like a natural defense between the forts
and the broad flatlands to the south.

Page 161
Page 161
Earthworks and gun emplacements were also under way on little
Governor’s Island between the Heights and Red Hook, in the direct
path of the entrance to the East River. “We have done a great deal,”
Washington could claim in early May. “Governor’s Island has a large
and strong work erected…. The point below (called Red Hook) has a
small, but exceedingly strong barbette [mounted] battery—and
several new works are constructed and many of them almost
executed at other places.”
 
Barricades were thrown up within the city itself. In the words of a
surviving British intelligence report, “every street facing both North
and East Rivers has wooden trunks made across ten feet thick filled
with earth, in order to intercept any troops that may attempt a
landing.”
 
There were guns along the banks of the Hudson, heavy cannon
at old Fort George by the Battery, and more at the Whitehall dock on
the East River.
 
Henry Knox was proud to report that 120 cannon were in place in
and about the city and this time ample ammunition was standing by.
The one glaring problem was an acute shortage of artillerymen.
Knowing how many soldiers in the ranks were without muskets or
arms of any kind, Knox persuaded Washington to reassign five or six
hundred of them to the artillery. Never mind that they were entirely
inexperienced, almost any live body being preferable to nothing.
 
The daily labors of the artillerymen were hardly less wearisome
than those of the troops digging trenches and throwing up
earthworks, and potentially a great deal more dangerous, as the
diary of the Massachusetts soldier Solomon Nash gives some
suggestion.
 
Monday, May 13…Fetched one 32 pounder from the fort
and placed it to the eastward of the grand battery….

Page 162
Page 162
Employed in piling up shot.
 
Thursday, May 16…Some of us employed…in firing our
cannon with double charges in them to prove them and they
all proved good but two. One of them split at the muzzle
and the other at the grand battery burst all in pieces. One
piece went 30 or 40 rods [about 200 yards] and fell upon a
house…through the roof and all the floors to the last one,
which hurt the house very much, but hurt nobody.
 
Wednesday, May 22…Employed in making cartridges….
 
Friday, May 31…Bigger part of our regiment employed
in making cartridges. So ends this month.
 
In early June, Knox and Greene rode together to the rugged
uppermost end of York Island to survey a craggy ridge 230 feet
above the Hudson, the highest point on the island, as the site for still
another major defense, and work soon commenced on what was to
be called Fort Washington, intended to keep the British navy from
coming up the river. Another fort, to be known as Fort Constitution,
was also planned for the opposite side of the Hudson.
 
The friendship of Knox and Greene that had begun in Knox’s
Boston bookshop continued to grow, as the two officers found
themselves increasingly important in the overall command and
nearly always in agreement on matters of consequence. In their
admiration of and loyalty to Washington, they were of one heart and
both had begun helping Washington in his dealings with Congress.
 
Greene, in a letter stressing the urgent need for more troops, told
John Adams, head of the Board of War, that if Congress were to
provide support for those soldiers maimed or killed that this in itself
would increase enlistments and “inspire those engaged with as much
courage as any measure that can be fixed upon.” He wrote, too, of
the low morale among officers whose pay was not enough to defray

Page 163
Page 163
even ordinary expenses. Good officers were “the very soul of an
army,” Greene wrote. The Congress must not be overconfident. “The
fate of war is very uncertain,” he warned.
 
Suppose this army should be defeated, two or three of
the leading generals killed, our stores and magazines all
lost, I would not be answerable for the consequences that
such a stroke might produce in American politics.
 
At Adams’s request, Knox provided a list of recommended books
on military matters, and in a letter to Adams of May 16, Knox
expressed in the strongest terms his belief that it was time to declare
American independence. Like Washington, like Greene—and like
Adams—Knox longed ardently for a separation from Britain, and the
sooner the better.
 
The future happiness or misery of a great proportion of
the human race is at stake—and if we make a wrong
choice, ourselves and our posterity must be wretched.
Wrong choice! There can be but one choice consistent with
the character of a people possessing the least degree of
reason. And that is to separate—to separate from that
people who from a total dissolution of virtue among them
must be our enemies—an event which I de[v]outly pray may
soon take place; and let it be as soon as may be.
 
As Martha Washington had joined the commander-in-chief in
New York, so Lucy Knox and Caty Greene traveled from New
England to be with their husbands, each young woman bringing an
infant born within the year—little Lucy Knox and George Washington
Greene. An undated invitation sent from Greene’s Long Island
quarters that spring reads: “Gen Green[e] and Lady present their
compliments to Col. Knox and his Lady and should be glad of their
company tomorrow at dinner at 2 o’clock.”

Page 164
Page 164
II
Contents - Prev / Next
 
THROUGH DAYS OF TOIL ON DEFENSES, through endless
hours taken up with military routine, endless problems of supply and
paperwork, and the innumerable day-to-day preoccupations of those
trying to carry on with the little that remained of normal civilian life,
the thought that the British could appear any time was seldom out of
mind. Every soldier, every civilian, it seemed, had one eye cocked on
the harbor for the first sign of British sails. Every waking day began
with the thought that it could be the day.
 
Washington ordered a signal system set up between Long Island,
Staten Island, and New York. On May 18 a rumor flew through the
city that the British had been sighted off Sandy Hook in the Lower
Bay, and though there was nothing to it, the story carried for days.
 
The number of sentries at gun emplacements was doubled. They
were “not to suffer any person whatever…to go into the batteries at
night,” Washington’s order read. “Nor is any person whatever, but
generals or field officers of the army, and officers and men of the
artillery who have real business there, to be permitted even in
daytime.”
 
More orders followed. Soldiers were to “lay upon [sleep with] their
arms and be ready to turn out at a minute’s notice.” To practice the
use of their arms, they were each to fire at least two rounds, and
practice moving rapidly from their camps into the trenches and
fortifications, to become familiar with the ground they would have to
cover when the attack came.
 
According to his own returns, Washington had 8,880 men at
hand, 6,923 of whom were fit for duty. At the same time, he received
reliable word that no fewer than 17,000 hired German troops were

Page 165
Page 165
on the way to serve under the British command, and that the full
enemy force could number as many as 30,000.
 
When Washington was called to Philadelphia to consult with
Congress, arrangements were made for fast horses to be held ready
at intervals along the road, so that if necessary he could get back to
New York with “utmost expedition.” It was the first time Washington
had left the army since taking command. No sooner had he
departed, on May 21, leaving General Putnam in charge, than the
rumor spread that he had gone to Philadelphia to resign his
command. When he returned, on June 6, after an absence of two
weeks, it was to a rousing welcome with drums rolling and five
regiments parading.
 
“Through Broadway we marched, round the King’s statue,” wrote
Lieutenant Bangs, jubilant, like all the army, at the commander’s
presence among them once more.
 
There was further bleak news from Canada, including word that
General John Thomas, who had been sent north with the
expectation that he could set things straight there, had died of
smallpox.
 
The one positive development for Washington was that during his
stay in Philadelphia he had convinced Joseph Reed to rejoin the
army, to serve as the army’s adjutant general—its administrative
head—with the rank of colonel, in place of General Horatio Gates,
who had been sent by Congress to see what he could do about
Canada.
 
Reed returned full of misgivings. He questioned his fitness for the
job—“It is so entirely out of my line,” he told his wife—and in a few
days he was ready to quit again. But Washington’s faith in the gifted
Reed, and his need for a confidant, were no less than ever. To
Washington his return was a godsend.

Page 166
Page 166
*** 
 
SUDDENLY, with the impact of an explosion, news of a Loyalist
plot to assassinate the commander-in-chief burst upon the city. A
dozen men were arrested, including the mayor of New York, David
Matthews, and two soldiers from Washington’s own Life Guard. The
plot reportedly was to kill Washington and his officers the moment
the British fleet appeared.
 
Patriot mobs took to the streets to hunt down Loyalists. Those
they seized were beaten, tarred and feathered, burned with candles,
or made “to ride the rail,” the cruel punishment whereby a man was
forced to straddle a sharp fence rail held on the shoulders of two
men, with other men on either side taking a grip on his legs to keep
him straight, and thus the victim was paraded through the streets.
 
“Dear Brother,” a New Yorker named Peter Elting wrote
approvingly on June 13, “We had some grand Tory rides in this city
this week and in particular yesterday. Several of them were handled
very roughly, being carried through the streets on rails, their clothes
tore from their back and their bodies pretty well mingled with the
dust.”
 
A local Moravian pastor, Ewald Shewkirk, writing in his diary of
such “very unhappy and shocking scenes,” noted also, “Some of the
generals, and especially Putnam, and their forces had enough to do
to quell the riot and make the mob disperse.”
 
Washington shifted his headquarters to City Hall. Knox and his
wife moved into No. 1 Broadway, while Martha Washington remained
at the Mortier house beyond the city—all this apparently out of
concern for Washington’s safety.
 
What was learned of the plot, in the course of a court-martial of
the two soldiers from the Life Guard, was less sensational than first
reported, but serious indeed, even if the evidence was thin.

Page 167
Page 167
According to the accused themselves, the plan had been to recruit
other soldiers to sabotage gun emplacements “when the fleet
arrives,” in return for royal pardons and financial bonuses
(“encouragement as to land and houses”). Besides the mayor, the
others arrested and imprisoned included two doctors, a shoemaker,
a tailor, a chandler, and a former schoolteacher. But only one of the
soldiers was convicted, an English immigrant named Thomas
Hickey, whose defense was that he had gotten involved only “for the
sake of cheating Tories and getting some money from them.”
 
Hickey was hanged before an enormous crowd on June 28, a
fate that most in the army approved. (“I wish twenty more were
served the same,” wrote Joseph Hodgkins.)
 
That same night Washington learned for the first time that the
British had sailed from Halifax bound for New York on June 9,
General Howe having departed somewhat earlier on the frigate
Greyhound. The information came by express rider from the captain
of an American schooner that had been captured by the Greyhound
off Cape Ann, then retaken by an armed American sloop.
 
The next morning, Saturday, June 29, officers with telescopes on
the roof of Washington’s headquarters and other vantage points in
the city and on Long Island, saw signals flying from the hills of Staten
Island. The first of the British fleet had appeared.
 
In a matter of hours, forty-five ships had dropped anchor inside
Sandy Hook in the Lower Bay, ten miles beyond the Narrows. To a
Pennsylvania rifleman closer at hand their masts looked like a forest
of trimmed pine trees. “I declare that I thought all London was afloat.”
 
*** 
 
HENRY AND LUCY KNOX were at breakfast at No. 1 Broadway
when they saw the fleet. It had become their practice to enjoy
breakfast beside a large Palladian window on the second floor with a

Page 168
Page 168
panoramic view of the harbor. But now suddenly the morning was
shattered and Lucy Knox was in a state of abject terror.
 
“You can scarcely conceive of the distress and anxiety which she
then had,” Knox would write to his brother William. “The city in an
uproar, the alarm guns firing, the troops repairing to their posts, and
everything in the [height] of bustle. I not at liberty to attend her, as
my country cries loudest.”
 
For weeks Knox had been urging Lucy to leave the city, for her
own safety and that of their infant daughter. “My God, may I never
experience the like feelings again! They were too much, but I found a
way to disguise them, for I scolded like a fury at her for not having
gone before.”
 
By sunset the enemy ships at anchor down the bay numbered
more than one hundred.
 
Riders galloped off to Connecticut and New Jersey to spread the
news and “hurry on the militia.” Martha Washington said her
goodbyes to her husband and departed the city by carriage with all
possible speed, as did Lucy Knox, Caty Greene, and their children,
along with hundreds more of the city’s inhabitants.
 
“The great being who watches the hearts of the children of men,
knows I value you above every blessing, and for that reason I wish
you to be at such a distance from the horrid scenes of war,” Knox
wrote to Lucy after she reached Connecticut, and lest anyone forget
all that was at stake, he reminded her, “We are fighting for our
country, for posterity perhaps. On the success of this campaign the
happiness or misery of millions may depend.”
 
Further details on the makeup of the enemy armada followed
quickly. The ships included the Centurion and the Chatham, of 50
guns each, the 40-gun Phoenix, and the 30-gun Greyhound with
General Howe on board, in addition to the 64-gun Asia. In their

Page 169
Page 169
combined firepower these five warships alone far exceeded all the
American guns now in place on shore. Nathanael Greene reported to
Washington that the total fleet of 120 ships had “10,000 troops
received at Halifax, beside some of the Scotch Brigade that have
joined the fleet on the passage.” And as Lieutenant Colonel Samuel
Webb of Washington’s staff further noted, an additional 15,000 to
20,000 could be expected “hourly” on still more ships from England
under the command of General Howe’s brother, Admiral Richard
Lord Howe.
 
The whole of New York was “in commotion,” wrote Pastor
Shewkirk. “On the one hand everyone that could was packing up and
getting away; and on the other hand country soldiers from the
neighboring places came in from all sides.”
 
On Long Island, one of Nathanael Greene’s field officers took
time to pen a note to his son back home in Newburyport,
Massachusetts. “I am of opinion our hands will be full,” wrote Colonel
Moses Little, a veteran of Bunker Hill.
 
*** 
 
IN PHILADELPHIA, the same day as the British landing on
Staten Island, July 2, 1776, the Continental Congress, in a
momentous decision, voted to “dissolve the connection” with Great
Britain. The news reached New York four days later, on July 6, and
at once spontaneous celebrations broke out. “The whole choir of our
officers…went to a public house to testify our joy at the happy news
of Independence. We spent the afternoon merrily,” recorded Isaac
Bangs.
 
A letter from John Hancock to Washington, as well as the
complete text of the Declaration, followed two days later:
 
That our affairs may take a more favorable turn
[Hancock wrote], the Congress have judged it necessary to

Page 170
Page 170
dissolve the connection between Great Britain and the
American colonies, and to declare them free and
independent states; as you will perceive by the enclosed
Declaration, which I am directed to transmit to you, and to
request you will have it proclaimed at the head of the army
in the way you shall think most proper.
 
Many, like Henry Knox, saw at once that with the enemy massing
for battle so close at hand and independence at last declared by
Congress, the war had entered an entirely new stage. The lines were
drawn now as never before, the stakes far higher. “The eyes of all
America are upon us,” Knox wrote. “As we play our part posterity will
bless or curse us.”
 
By renouncing their allegiance to the King, the delegates at
Philadelphia had committed treason and embarked on a course from
which there could be no turning back.
 
“We are in the very midst of a revolution,” wrote John Adams,
“the most complete, unexpected and remarkable of any in the history
of nations.”
 
In a ringing preamble, drafted by Thomas Jefferson, the
document declared it “self-evident” that “all men are created equal,”
and were endowed with the “unalienable” rights of “life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness.” And to this noble end the delegates had
pledged their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor.
 
Such courage and high ideals were of little consequence, of
course, the Declaration itself being no more than a declaration
without military success against the most formidable force on earth.
John Dickinson of Pennsylvania, an eminent member of Congress
who opposed the Declaration, had called it a “skiff made of paper.”
And as Nathanael Greene had warned, there were never any
certainties about the fate of war.

Page 171
Page 171
But from this point on, the citizen-soldiers of Washington’s army
were no longer to be fighting only for the defense of their country, or
for their rightful liberties as freeborn Englishmen, as they had at
Lexington and Concord, Bunker Hill and through the long siege at
Boston. It was now a proudly proclaimed, all-out war for an
independent America, a new America, and thus a new day of
freedom and equality.
 
At his home in Newport, Nathanael Greene’s mentor, the
Reverend Ezra Stiles, wrote in his diary almost in disbelief:
 
Thus the Congress has tied a Gordian knot, which the
Parl [iament] will find they can neither cut, nor untie. The
thirteen united colonies now rise into an Independent
Republic among the kingdoms, states, and empires on
earth…. And have I lived to see such an important and
astonishing revolution?
 
At a stroke the Continental Congress had made the Glorious
Cause of America more glorious still, for all the world to know, and
also to give every citizen soldier at this critical juncture something
still larger and more compelling for which to fight. Washington saw it
as a “fresh incentive,” and to his mind it had come not a moment too
soon.
 
On Tuesday, July 9, at six in the evening, on his orders, the
several brigades in the city were marched onto the Commons and
other parade grounds to hear the Declaration read aloud.
 
The general hopes this important event will serve as a
fresh incentive to every officer and soldier to act with fidelity
and courage, [the orders read] as knowing that now the
peace and safety of his country depends (under God) solely
on the success of our arms: And that he is now in the
service of a state possessed of sufficient power to reward

Page 172
Page 172
his merit, and advance him to the highest honors of a free
country.
 
The formal readings concluded, a great mob of cheering,
shouting soldiers and townspeople stormed down Broadway to
Bowling Green, where, with ropes and bars, they pulled down the
gilded lead statue of George III on his colossal horse. In their fury the
crowd hacked off the sovereign’s head, severed the nose, clipped
the laurels that wreathed the head, and mounted what remained of
the head on a spike outside a tavern.
 
Much of the lead from the rest of the statue would later be, as
reported, melted down for bullets “to assimilate with the brains of our
infatuated adversaries.”
 
*** 
 
NOT SINCE THE SPRING of 1775 had spirits been so high. But
the exuberance of the moment, or any thoughts that grand
pronouncements and the toppling of symbolic monuments were
sufficient to change the course of history, were quickly dashed in
dramatic fashion three days later, on July 12. In a surprise move, the
British demonstrated for all to see how much the defenders of New
York had still to learn, and the larger, ominous truth that without sea
power New York was indefensible.
 
It was a brilliant summer day with a brisk wind out of the
southwest, ideal sailing conditions. At approximately three in the
afternoon, His Majesty’s ships Phoenix and Rose, in the company of
three tenders, cast off their moorings at Staten Island and started up
the harbor under full sail, moving swiftly with the favorable wind and
a perfect flood tide.
 
Alarm guns sounded in New York. Soldiers rushed in every
direction through streets crowded with panic-stricken people. The
cannon at Red Hook and Governor’s Island opened fire, and as the

Page 173
Page 173
ships swept by lower Manhattan, heading into the mouth of the
Hudson, the guns at old Fort George and other shore batteries
opened up. Commanding the fire from Fort George was a nineteen-
year-old captain of New York artillery, Alexander Hamilton, who had
left King’s College to serve in the Cause. The ships returned the fire.
Cannonballs slammed into houses and came bounding down streets
still swarming with people. Washington would write of the extreme
distress he felt at the shrieks and cries of women and children
running every which way, and at the spectacle of his own men
standing at the water’s edge gawking helplessly, so awestruck—or
terrified—were they by the ferocious barrage let loose by the enemy
ships.
 
Private Joseph Martin, the fifteen-year-old Connecticut recruit,
would remember enjoying “a complete view of the whole affair.” It
was his first experience with the “muttering” of cannon fire, and he
“rather thought the sound was musical, or at least grand.”
 
Every battery along the Hudson fired away until cannon smoke
lay thick and heavy over the city, and the air reeked of gunpowder.
 
The British ships, keeping close to the New Jersey shore,
proceeded rapidly up the river and were soon out of sight. By five-
thirty they had passed the blasts of cannon from Fort Washington,
and by evening they were safely anchored thirty miles above the city
in the broadest part of the Hudson, the Tappan Zee at Tarrytown,
where their mission was to cut off rebel supplies and rouse local
Loyalists.
 
American gun crews had fired nearly 200 shots—more than 150
from the New York batteries alone—and to no apparent effect.
(According to the log of the Rose, the Americans “shot away our
starb[oa]rd fore shroud, fore tackle pendant, fore lift, fore topsail
clewlines, spritsail and main topsail braces, one 18 pound shot in the
head of our foremast, one through the pinnace, several through the
sails and some in the hull.”) Knox’s guns had proven more deadly to

Page 174
Page 174
his own men than to the foe. Six American artillerymen were killed,
the only fatalities of the day, when their cannon blew up due to their
own inexperience or overconfidence, or possibly, as said, because a
great many were drunk.
 
In his ensuing general orders, Washington could barely conceal
his disgust over the inexcusable behavior displayed in the face of the
enemy, and the shame he felt over officers who, instead of attending
to their duty, had stood gazing like bumpkins. To the proud
Washington, he and the army had been made a laughingstock.
 
Such unsoldierly conduct must grieve every good officer,
and give the enemy a mean opinion of the army, as nothing
shows the brave and good soldier more than in case of
alarms, coolly and calmly repairing to his post, and there
waiting his orders; whereas a weak curiosity at such a time
makes a man look mean and contemptible.
 
Knox wrote privately that while the loss of his six men had been a
great misfortune, he consoled himself with the hope that the day’s
action had taught the rest to be less “impetuous” the next time.
 
But there was a far larger, more ominous lesson in what had
happened. Clearly if two enemy warships with their tenders could
pass so swiftly and readily up the Hudson suffering no serious
damage from the onshore batteries, then so could ten or twenty
warships and transports, or for that matter, an entire British fleet, and
by landing an army of 10,000 or more upriver, they could cut off any
chance Washington and his forces might have for escape from New
York.
 
To compound Washington’s torment, the day’s drama closed in
late afternoon with the spectacle of the 64-gun HMS Eagle steadily
advancing up the bay with all canvas spread and the flag of St.
George flying at the foretop masthead, signifying it was the flagship
of Admiral Lord Howe and that therefore the fleet from England and

Page 175
Page 175
still more troops could not be far behind. In the gathering dusk of
New York, the boom of a Royal Navy salute came rolling across the
waters.
 
III
Contents - Prev / Next
 
MORALE IN THE BRITISH RANKS had never been higher. After
the miseries of the winter in Boston and months of bleak isolation at
Halifax, then more wearisome weeks at sea, Staten Island in
summer seemed a paradise.
 
“[We] are in very comfortable cantonments amongst a loyal and
liberal people, who produce [supply] us in plenty and in agreeable
variety all the necessaries of life, most of which we have been long
deprived of,” wrote a British officer. “We are in the most beautiful
island that nature could form or art improve,” declared another.
“Here,” reported a third, “we experience greater luxury than we have
done since the commencement of hostilities…fresh meat…eggs,
butter, milk, and vegetables,” and all on “reasonable terms.”
 
Captain Archibald Robertson hiked to the nearby hills with his
painting kit to do watercolor sketches as he had at Boston. The
difference here was the greater scale of everything spread before
him—the sweep of the surpassing harbor defined by New York and
Long Island in the distance, and the far larger British fleet now riding
at anchor in the middle foreground.
 
The redcoated soldiers found themselves well nourished and
welcome on American soil in a way they had never been—indeed,
openly greeted “with greatest joy.”
“We have now a very good supply of salt provisions,”
summarized still another officer, “a great quantity of rum, an
immense quantity of ammunition of all kinds, and what is best of all,

Page 176
Page 176
the very people who we suspected would oppose us are coming
over to us in great numbers.” Hardly a day passed without distraught
Loyalists or American deserters turning up, filled with tales of woe,
many of them having crossed at night by boat from Long Island or
New York.
 
Ambrose Serle, a patriotic young Englishman and fluent writer
who served as a civilian secretary to Admiral Howe, recorded in his
journal how his heart went out to the Loyalists. “It excited one’s
sympathy to see their poor meager faces,” he wrote of several who
had escaped from Long Island, “and to hear their complaints of being
hunted for their lives like game into the woods and swamps, only
because they would not renounce their allegiance to their King and
affection for their country.”
 
For deserters there was considerably less sympathy and little or
no trust. There was “no believing these poor deluded wretches,”
wrote Colonel Charles Stuart, summing up what most British officers
felt. General James Grant thought no American could be trusted,
Loyalists any more than the rest. “The inhabitants of this island,”
Grant concluded from his observations, “hate the rebel army
because they have been oppressed by them…. But from the
confession and conversation of our most loyal subjects of Staten
Island, I am quite confirmed in my opinion that we have not a friend
in America.”
 
This, however, was not the view of the more astute General
Howe, who saw immediately in the Loyalists an advantage he had
been denied at Boston. “I met with Governor Tryon on board of ship
at the Hook, and many gentlemen, fast friends to [the] government
attending him, from whom I have had the fullest information on the
state of the rebels,” Howe had reported to Lord Germain, on July 7,
just days after landing at Staten Island.
 
News of the Declaration of Independence served only to
underscore “the villainy and the madness of these deluded people,”

Page 177
Page 177
an outraged Ambrose Serle observed. “A more impudent, false, and
atrocious proclamation was never fabricated by the hands of man.”
 
Soldiers in his Majesty’s ranks talked of “the sporting season”
about to begin. The lust for the hunt was stronger than ever, their
officers happily took note. All rebels were fair game. “The troops hold
them very cheap,” wrote Serle, “and long for an opportunity of
revenging the cause of their countrymen who fell at Bunker Hill.”
 
Lord Rawdon, a veteran of Bunker Hill and of the siege of Boston
who had taken delight in the hatred his men felt for Yankees, was
cheered now by the number of soldiers being court-martialed for
rape, this being perfect proof, he wrote, of their improved diet and of
what a “spirited” lot they were.
 
The fair nymphs of this isle are in wonderful tribulation,
as the fresh meat our men have got here has made them
as riotous as satyrs. A girl cannot step into the bushes to
pluck a rose without running the most imminent risk of
being ravished, and they are so little accustomed to these
vigorous methods that they don’t bear them with the proper
resignation, and of consequence we have most entertaining
courts-martial every day.
 
Yet the courts-martial were themselves proof that such conduct
was no laughing matter to the British command, and in fact those
convicted faced punishment far more severe than what was
customarily dispensed in the American army.
 
Writing earlier to the Earl of Huntingdon, the handsome Lord
Rawdon had expressed the hope that “we shall soon have done with
these [American] scoundrels, for one only dirties one’s fingers by
meddling with them. I do not imagine they can possibly last out
beyond this campaign, if you give us the necessary means of
carrying on the war with vigor.” Now, with “the necessary means”
gathering in such heartening numbers on Staten Island, he eagerly

Page 178
Page 178
anticipated the moment when the “Yankee psalm-singers,” as he
loved to call them, crossed paths with the likes of the newly arrived
Scottish Highlanders armed with their murderous broadswords.
 
Through telescopes a dozen or more distant rebel camps could
be distinctly seen, and the enemy appeared “very numerous.” From
what could be learned from Loyalists and deserters, rebel strength in
New York and on Long Island was overestimated to be between
30,000 and 35,000. But few if any of the British doubted that the
conflict ahead would prove fatal to the rebel army, or that it would be
exceedingly bloody.
 
Among many officers the chief worry was that the Americans
might not fight. As one wrote anonymously in a letter published in
London’s Morning Chronicle, “Our only fear is that the rebels will not
choose to hazard a general action…. If…they are determined to act
upon the defensive only…our work will never be done.”
 
Even before the successful dash of the Phoenix and the Rose up
the Hudson, it had been assumed by many British officers that the
assault on New York would be made to the north, and thus the army
would advance on the city from the undefended rear, while the Royal
Navy let loose with a heavy bombardment from the rivers and
harbor. But General Howe was saying little of his plans, except that
the wait would continue until full reinforcements had arrived. The
general, too, was enjoying the comparative comforts of Staten
Island, as well as the company of the comely Mrs. Loring, and
characteristically he appeared to be in no hurry.
 
To what extent his brother the admiral would influence or even
determine strategy henceforth was an open question, and important,
since both the admiral and the general had been lately assigned by
the King to serve in the oddly ambiguous, potentially conflicting, role
of peace commissioners.

Page 179
Page 179
The general was known to want a “decisive action” as the surest
way to wind things up quickly—which was also the adamant view of
George Lord Germain, from whom he took his orders—and unlike
some of his officers, he was certain the Americans would fight. In a
letter written before sailing for New York from Halifax, he had said
they were undoubtedly spoiling for a fight, that “flushed with the idea
of superiority after the evacuation of Boston, [they] may be readier
brought to a decisive action,” and that nothing was “more to be
desired or sought for” as the most effective means “to terminate this
expensive war.”
 
Whether the admiral carried an olive branch or a sword was
unclear. But his presence on the Eagle and the prospect of more
men-of-war and transports arriving had a huge effect. The admiral
was a renowned fighting sailor, and as the older, less self-indulgent
of the brothers—and with an even darker, gloomier cast to his
expression—“Black Dick,” as he was known affectionately, was
thought to be the wiser of the two.
 
The fact that they were of like mind on most matters military and
political, and got along well, seemed to preclude the friction and
jealousies between the Royal Navy and the army frequently endemic
to such joint operations. Whatever strategy was resolved, the
assumption was that the sea and land forces would work in close
cooperation and harmony.
 
*** 
 
ON SATURDAY, JULY 13, General Howe and his staff, joined by
Royal Governor Tryon, dined with the admiral in his cabin on board
the Eagle. The discussion “turned upon military affairs, upon the
country, and upon the rebels,” and lasted well into the evening.
 
The next day came another surprise move when Lord Howe sent
a picked officer from the Eagle, Lieutenant Philip Brown, across the
bay to New York under a flag of truce carrying a letter addressed to

Page 180
Page 180
“George Washington, Esq.” Brown was met by Joseph Reed, who on
Washington’s orders had hurried to the waterfront accompanied by
Henry Knox and Samuel Webb.
 
“I have a letter, sir, from Lord Howe to Mr. Washington,”
Lieutenant Brown began.
 
“Sir,” replied Reed, “we have no person in our army with that
address.”
 
When Brown asked by what title Mr. Washington chose to be
addressed, Reed replied, “You are sensible, sir, of the rank of
General Washington in our army.”
 
“Yes, sir, we are,” answered Brown. “I am sure Lord Howe will
lament exceedingly this affair, as the letter is quite of a civil nature
and not a military one.”
 
Lord Howe also lamented “exceedingly that he was not here
sooner,” Brown added, implying that the admiral regretted not
arriving in New York before the Declaration of Independence.
 
Brown returned to the Eagle to report the response of the
Americans. (“So high is the vanity and the insolence of these men!”
huffed Ambrose Serle in his journal.) But the admiral persisted.
Three days later, Brown departed again under a white flag, the letter
now addressed to “George Washington, Esq., etc., etc.” But again it
was declined.
 
The day after the admiral made a third try, this time sending a
different messenger, a captain named Nisbet Balfour, to inquire
whether General Washington would receive the adjutant general to
General Howe, Colonel James Paterson. This time the answer was
yes.

Page 181
Page 181
Thus exactly at noon, Saturday, July 20, Colonel Paterson arrived
at New York and was escorted directly to No. 1 Broadway, where he
met Washington with all due formality, with Reed, Knox, and others
in attendance.
 
Washington’s guard stood at attention at the entrance.
Washington, as Knox wrote, was “very handsomely dressed and
made a most elegant appearance,” while Paterson conducted
himself with what Reed considered “the greatest politeness and
attention.”
 
Seated across a table from Washington, Paterson assured him
that Lord Howe did not mean to “derogate from the respect or rank of
General Washington.” Both Lord and General Howe held the “person
and character” of General Washington “in highest esteem,” Paterson
said. But when he took from his pocket the same letter—addressed
still to “George Washington, Esq., etc., etc.”—and placed it on the
table between them, Washington let it lie, pointedly refusing to touch
it.
 
The use of “etc., etc.” implied everything that ought to follow,
Paterson offered by way of explanation. “It so does,” said
Washington, “and anything.” A letter addressed to a person in a
position of public responsibility ought to indicate that station,
Washington said, otherwise it would appear mere private
correspondence. He would not accept such a letter.
 
Paterson talked of the “goodness” and “benevolence” of the King,
who had appointed Lord and General Howe as commissioners to
“accommodate this unhappy dispute.” As Reed would write in a
report to Congress—a report soon published in the Pennsylvania
Journal —Washington replied simply that he was “not vested with
any powers on this subject by those from whom he derived his
authority and power.”

Page 182
Page 182
It was his understanding, Washington continued, that Lord Howe
had come out from London with authority only to grant pardons. If
that was so, he had come to the wrong place.
 
“Those who have committed no fault want no pardon,”
Washington said plainly. “We are only defending what we deem our
indisputable rights.”
 
According to Henry Knox, the English officer appeared as
“awestruck as if before something super-natural.”
 
Paterson said he lamented that an “adherence to forms” might
“obstruct business of the greatest moment and concern.”
 
The meeting over, as Paterson himself would write, the general
“with a great deal of marked attention and civility permitted me to
take my leave.”
 
It had been a scene that those in the room would long remember.
Washington had performed his role to perfection. It was not enough
that a leader look the part; by Washington’s rules, he must know how
to act it with self-command and precision. John Adams would later
describe Washington approvingly as one of the great actors of the
age.
 
To Washington it had been an obligatory farce. He had no faith,
no trust whatever in any peace overtures by the British, however
properly rendered. He had agreed to take part in such an “interview,”
one senses, partly to show the British—and his own staff—that he
could go through the motions quite as well as any officer and
gentleman, but more importantly to send a message to the British
command absent any ambiguity. And in this he was unmistakably
successful.
 
As Lord Howe would report to Lord Germain on the prospect of
an accommodation acceptable to the King, the “interview…induced

Page 183
Page 183
me to change my subscription for the attainment of an end so
desirable.”
*** 
 
BRITISH SHIPS KEPT ARRIVING, their sails at first tiny glints on
the eastern horizon, then growing steadily larger by the hour as they
came up through the Narrows. Samuel Webb counted five ships on
July 25, eight on July 26. On July 29 another twenty arrived.
 
A midsummer drought had set in; the heat was fierce. Just as the
winter of 1776 had been one of extreme cold, so the summer was
one of extreme heat. “No air, and the thermometer at 94 degrees,”
recorded Ambrose Serle on board the Eagle.
 
Henry Knox, writing to Lucy at his desk at No. 1 Broadway, said
he had never worked so hard or felt so done in by the heat.
 
I generally rise with or a little before the sun and
immediately, with part of the regiment attend prayers, sing a
psalm or read a chapter [of the Bible]. I dispatch a
considerable deal of business before breakfast. From
breakfast to dinner I am boiling in a sun hot enough to roast
an egg. Indeed, my dear Lucy, I never suffered so much
from fatigue in my life.
 
On August 1, a swarm of forty-five ships carrying Generals Henry
Clinton and Charles Cornwallis and some 3,000 troops were sighted
off Sandy Hook, newly returned from South Carolina and making “a
very fine appearance,” in the eyes of the exultant British.
 
To the Americans the ships and Clinton’s army were as
unexpected as “if they had dropped from the clouds.”
 
And still ships kept coming.

Page 184
Page 184
On August 4, Nathanael Greene reported that another twenty-
one had been counted on the horizon, the whole of Lord Howe’s
fleet. And as if to underscore the ambiguity of the admiral’s mission,
transports loaded with troops bore such names as Good Intent,
Friendship, Amity’s Admonition, and Father’s Good Will.
 
“We have had so many arrivals of late,” wrote a nearly giddy
Ambrose Serle, “that the rebel commanders, we learn, give out to
their people that we send ships down in the night, which come up in
the course of the next day, as a maneuver to intimidate them.”
 
Joseph Reed, writing to a friend, said that no fewer than a
hundred ships had arrived within ten days, and as yet only part of the
“foreign” (Hessian) troops had come in. Reed, it appears, was
indeed intimidated. For the first time he expressed great misgivings
over the wisdom of even trying to defend New York against such a
force. “It is a mere point of honor that keeps us here now.” He had a
different strategy in mind.
 
“My opinion is,” he wrote, “we should make it a war of posts,
prolong, procrastinate, avoid any general action, or indeed any
action, unless we have great advantages.”
 
As things were, he saw no advantages. To what degree he was
pressing such views on his commander by this time is not known.
 
Even stalwart, optimistic Henry Knox suffered his own private
anguish. “I shrink and tremble at the importance of our present
conduct—the weight absolute without alleviation of perhaps posterity
on the shoulders of the present army, an army, I am sorry to say,
[that] is not sufficiently numerous to resist the formidable attacks
which will probably be made,” he told his brother in a letter of August
5.
 
Washington remained determined to make a stand, convinced
still that the city must be defended.

Page 185
Page 185
On August 12 the sea beyond the Narrows was filled with yet
another one hundred ships or more bearing down on New York, a
fleet so large that it took all day for them to come up the harbor
under full canvas, colors flying, guns saluting, sailors and soldiers on
the ships and on shore cheering themselves hoarse.
 
In addition, another 3,000 British troops and more than 8,000
Hessians had arrived after an arduous three months at sea.
 
Nothing like it had ever been seen in New York. Housetops were
covered with “gazers”; all wharves that offered a view were jammed
with people. The total British armada now at anchor in a “long, thick
cluster” off Staten Island numbered nearly four hundred ships large
and small, seventy-three warships, including eight ships of the line,
each mounting 50 guns or more. As British officers happily reminded
one another, it was the largest fleet ever seen in American waters. In
fact, it was the largest expeditionary force of the eighteenth century,
the largest, most powerful force ever sent forth from Britain or any
nation.
 
But it was also true that as big as the biggest ships were—and to
Americans who had never seen anything like them, they were
colossal—they could have been bigger still. Even theAsia andEagle
were small compared to other ships in the British fleet. HMSVictory,
for example, mounted fully 98 guns. Concerned about the difficulties
of clearing the shallows of Sandy Hook and negotiating the East
River and the Hudson, Admiral Lord Howe had wisely chosen speed
and maneuverability over size and more massive firepower.
 
Still, by the scale of things in the American colonies of 1776, it
was a display of military might past imagining. All told, 32,000 troops
had landed on Staten Island, a well-armed, well-equipped, trained
force more numerous than the entire population of New York or even
Philadelphia, which, with a population of about 30,000, was the
largest city in America.

Page 186
Page 186
Joseph Reed, writing to his wife, expressed what many felt:
 
When I look down and see the prodigious fleet they
have collected, the preparations they have made, and
consider the vast expenses incurred, I cannot help being
astonished that a people should come 3,000 miles at such
risk, trouble and expense to rob, plunder and destroy
another people because they will not lay their lives and
fortunes at their feet.
 
*** 
 
IN THE TENT ENCAMPMENTS dotting Staten Island the
redcoats were in holiday spirits. But so it was, also, on the American
side, among such veterans of the Boston campaign as Jabez Fitch in
camp in New York, and Joseph Hodgkins, on Long Island, who had
no doubt the troops would give a good account of themselves,
whatever was to come.
 
Their confidence was bolstered in large degree by distorted
notions of their own strength. It was true enough that the enemy was
“coming in almost every day,” wrote Hodgkins to his wife, and they
might number as many as 25,000. Yet she need not worry, “for we
have 42,000 men now and they are coming in every day.” One
newspaper said the American army numbered 70,000.
 
Many of the new arrivals looked the way soldiers were supposed
to, in smart uniforms and well armed, and they marched into town full
of pride. Delaware, the smallest colony, had sent the largest battalion
in the army, “the Delaware Blues,” a force of 800 turned out in
handsome red-trimmed blue coats, white waistcoats, buckskin
breeches, white woolen stockings, and carrying fine, “lately
imported” English muskets. The proud Maryland battalion
commanded by General William Smallwood was composed of “men
of honor, family, and fortune,” and, if anything, they were even better

Page 187
Page 187
armed and more dazzling in scarlet coats lined with buff. Colonel
John Glover’s tough Massachusetts fishermen wore the blue jackets
of sailors, white shirts, white breeches and caps, while their short,
stocky, red-haired commander had silver lace trim on his blue
broadcloth coat and carried a brace of silver pistols.
 
But while the incoming stream of reinforcements had become a
daily spectacle, desertions were increasing by the day, and signing
up new recruits was proving ever more difficult, in part because that
summer of 1776 was a bumper year on American farms and men
could rightly claim to be needed at home. “Their complaints are
without number,” the colonel of a Connecticut regiment wrote.
 
Some have got ten or twelve loads of hay cut, and not a
man left to take it up. Some have got a great quantity of
grass to cut. Some have not finished hoeing corn. Some, if
not all, have got their ploughing to do, for sowing their
winter grain. Some have all their families sick, and not a
person left to take care of them.
 
In the oppressive summer heat in New York and on Long Island,
camp fever had become epidemic. When Lieutenant Hodgkins
allowed to his wife Sarah that “a good many of our people are
poorly,” that was hardly the half of it. (Hodgkins was worried sick
over his youngest child, a two-year-old son and namesake, who, he
had learned, was deathly ill at home, and he was no doubt trying to
spare her still more worry.) In the regiment in which Jabez Fitch
served, 180 men, nearly two-thirds of the regiment, including the
commanding officer, Colonel Jedediah Huntington, were too sick for
duty. “Sickness prevails greatly in camp,” recorded a regimental
surgeon, Albigence Waldo, adding that in other camps conditions
were worse.
 
“The vile water here sickens us all,” wrote the New Jersey
chaplain Philip Fithian, who was himself ill.

Page 188
Page 188
One died this morning in our hospital of a dysentery….
Two died yesterday in the New England hospital of a
dysentery, and thirty more are confined with it and other
putrid disorders.
 
Many also through the camp are much unwell but will not go to
[the] hospital. Poor Mr. Donaldson, my old neighbor, is among these.
Yesterday he went to the hospital, but crawled back to his tent this
morning, and resolves there to die rather than return.
 
As they had so often at Boston, Washington and his generals
insisted on all possible cleanliness. Nathanael Greene, in particular,
gave repeated orders that the camp be kept clean, that the vaults—
as latrines were known—were covered with fresh earth daily, and
new vaults dug weekly.
 
The general also forbids in the most positive terms
[Greene had written in his orders of July 28] the troops
easing themselves in the ditches of the fortifications, a
practice that is disgraceful to the last degree. If these
matters are not attended to, the stench arising from such
places will soon breed a pestilence in the camp.
 
It was thought that anywhere from 3,000 to 6,000 men were sick.
“The numbers of his [Washington’s] men are daily diminishing,”
wrote an English visitor who had recently “escaped from the
provincials” at New York.
 
They desert in large bodies, are sickly, filthy, divided,
and unruly. Putrid disorders, the small pox in particular,
have carried off great numbers. When I left the city there
were six thousand in their hospitals, to which use they have
converted King’s College.
 
General Heath would later estimate that 10,000 of the army were
ill. “In almost every barn, stable, shed, and even under the fences

Page 189
Page 189
and bushes, were the sick to be seen, whose countenances were
but an index of the dejection of spirit and the distress they endured.”
And those who had not yet been “taken down” lived with the constant
dread that their turn could be next.
 
“These things are melancholy, but they are nevertheless true,”
Washington reported to John Hancock. “I hope for better.”
 
Under every disadvantage my utmost exertions shall be
employed to bring about the great end we have in view, and
so far as I can judge from the professions and apparent
disposition of my troops, I shall have their support. The
superiority of the enemy and the expected attack do not
seem to have depressed their spirits.
 
It had been a long time waiting. By mid-August it had been more
than four months since the army had set off from Boston for New
York, and hurry was the order of the day. The British had not arrived
until the end of June and then, instead of attacking at once, as
Washington expected, they had kept him watching and waiting week
after week, as still more of their navy and more troops arrived.
Whatever their plans or however little time remained in the “season
for action,” they seemed, inexplicably, in no hurry whatever.
 
Washington’s quandary over where the British would strike, and
how to apportion the strength he had, was no less extreme now than
it had been at the start. Greene and Reed, whose judgment he
valued most, were certain the enemy would attack Long Island, both
because of the numbers of Loyalists there and the broad accessible
beaches where troops could readily land under the protection of
British ships.
 
But Washington worried that a landing on Long Island might be a
diversion in advance of a full assault on New York. And with no way
of knowing, he felt compelled now to violate one of the oldest, most
fundamental rules of battle, never to divide your strength when faced

Page 190
Page 190
by a superior force. He split his army in roughly equal parts on the
theory that he could move men one way or the other over the East
River according to how events unfolded.
 
In a long report to Washington dated August 15, Greene stressed
a further cause for concern. The new troops coming over to Long
Island, besides being undisciplined, inexperienced, poorly armed,
and poorly equipped, were “strangers to the ground.” They had no
familiarity with the lay of the land, a subject Greene considered of
greatest importance. “They will not be so apt to support each other in
time of action as those who have long been acquainted, and who are
not only attached to each other but to the place.”
 
He confirmed that the troops were in “exceeding good spirits,”
and that, like Washington, he took heart from this. Only at the
conclusion did he acknowledge with regret that he was confined to
his bed with a raging fever. Greene, the officer who had been the
most concerned of all about the health of the troops, was himself
stricken at the crucial hour.
 
*** 
 
AT MEETINGS of the British high command, General Henry
Clinton had been making a case for an attack at the northern end of
York Island, up the Hudson, but in one conference after another
found he could get nowhere with William Howe, who had other
plans.
 
On the morning of Sunday, August 18, taking advantage of a
strong northeasterly wind, the Phoenix and the Rose “passed briskly”
back down the Hudson to rejoin the fleet. At one point during their
sojourn upriver, the Americans had sent a fireship—a ship set ablaze
—against the Phoenix, but to no avail; and on the return passage,
American guns had blasted away as before, “like incessant
thunders,” and again without much effect.

Page 191
Page 191
If anyone among the American command saw the return of the
two enemy ships from upriver as a sign of trouble, there is no record
of it.
 
The day after, August 19, Washington had a number of old ships
sunk at the mouth of the East River, between the Battery and
Governor’s Island, in the hope they would stop the British fleet from
any attempt at getting between New York and Brooklyn.
 
Captain William Tudor, the judge advocate, described the whole
army as impatient for action. Spade and pick had been so well
employed, wrote “Billy” Tudor, that there was “scarce a spot” left
undefended. “From the advantage we now possess, I think General
Howe must be repulsed whenever he attacks, but should he be able
to carry the island, it must be with so prodigious a loss that victory
will be ruin.” At the least, in other words, it would be Bunker Hill all
over again.
 
On August 20, Washington learned that Nathanael Greene, upon
whom he counted more than anyone, had taken a turn for the worse.
Knox, in letters to his wife, reported that “poor General Greene” was
“dangerously ill.”
“sick nearly to death.” Left no choice, Washington relieved
Greene of command, and the stricken general was moved from
Brooklyn Heights across the river to the “airy” safety of a house
several miles above New York.
 
In Greene’s place, Washington put the headstrong John Sullivan,
who had recently returned from Canada and who had nothing like
Greene’s ability or judgment. Further, Sullivan was, in Greene’s
expression, a complete “stranger to the ground” on Long Island.
 
Writing to John Hancock earlier, Washington had offered a candid
appraisal of Sullivan as “spirited and zealously attached to the
Cause,” but also a man touched with a “tincture of vanity” and too
great a “desire of being popular.” Then, generously and realistically,

Page 192
Page 192
Washington conceded that everyone in command of the army
suffered from a greater, more serious failing, himself included. “His
wants,” Washington said of Sullivan, “are common to us all; the want
of experience to move upon a large scale.”
*** 
 
AT SOME POINT in the course of Wednesday, August 21,
Washington scratched off a quick note to John Hancock to say only
that he had “nothing special” to communicate.
 
That same day, at a country estate near Elizabethtown, New
Jersey, General William Livingston, a former member of Congress
and newly in command of the New Jersey militia, wrote in “utmost
haste” to Washington that a spy he had sent to Staten Island had
just returned to report that the British were about to attack, both on
Long Island and up the Hudson, and that the attack could come any
hour, “this night at farthest.”
 
The reply from Washington, written in Joseph Reed’s hand, said,
“We have made no discovery of any movement here of any
consequence.”

Page 193
Page 193
Chapter Five Field of Battle
Contents - Prev / Next
 
Remember officers and soldiers that you are free men, fighting
for the blessings of liberty.
—General George Washington
 
I
Contents - Prev / Next
 
ON THE NIGHT OFAUGUST 21, 1776,a terrifying storm broke
over New York, a storm as vicious as any in living memory, and for
those who saw omens in such unleashed fury from the elements—
those familiar with the writings of the Roman historian Livy, say, or
the plays of Shakespeare, of whom there were many—a night so
violent seemed filled with portent.
 
Chroniclers Philip Fithian, Ambrose Serle, and Pastor Ewald
Shewkirk called it “a storm like a hurricane,” “a most terrible storm, ”
“the most vehement I ever saw, ” “an uncommon…awful scene.” A
Connecticut officer on Brooklyn Heights, Major Abner Benedict,
would describe how, at seven o’clock, a monstrous thundercloud
rose in the west. Looming higher and higher, “it was surcharged with
electricity, for the lightning was constantly searching it from limit to
limit,” he wrote. It began to rain. “Then followed a crash louder than a
thousand cannon…. In a few minutes the entire heavens became
black as ink, and from horizon to horizon the whole empyrean was
ablaze with lightning.” The thunder did not follow in successive
peals, but in one “continuous crash.”

Page 194
Page 194
The storm raged for three hours, yet strangely the cloud
appeared to stand still, “and swing round and round,” over the city.
“The lightning fell in masses and sheets of fire to the earth, and
seemed to strike incessantly and on every side.”
 
Houses burst into flame. Ten soldiers camped by the East River,
below Fort Stirling, were killed in a single flash. In New York, a
soldier hurrying through the streets was struck deaf, blind, and mute.
In another part of town three officers were killed by a single
thunderbolt. A later report described how the tips of their swords and
coins in their pockets had been melted, their bodies turned as black
as if roasted.
 
To Major Benedict the roar and bloodshed of battle were
something to be expected. “But there seems hidden meaning, some
secret purpose, when the bolt is launched by an invisible arm, and
from the mysterious depth of space.”
 
He could not account for the cloud remaining stationary for so
long, unless, he speculated, “the vast amount of arms collected in
and about the city held it by attraction and drew from it such a fearful
amount of electricity.”
 
*** 
 
BEFORE DAWN THE FOLLOWING DAY, Thursday, August 22,
the sky was clear and cloudless, as if nothing unusual had
happened. And with a fresh morning breeze and roll of drums, the
long-awaited British invasion of Long Island got under way.
 
The frigates Phoenix (with Lord Howe aboard), Rose, and
Greyhound, and two bomb ketches, the Carcass and the Thunder
(vessels equipped for shore bombardment), swung loose from their
moorings and stood down the Narrows to take their positions to
cover the landing. Then, at approximately five o’clock, with day
beginning to break, an advance corps—4,000 of the King’s elite

Page 195
Page 195
troops led by Generals Clinton and Cornwallis—pushed off, the men
packed aboard scores of flatboats (these built during the time on
Staten Island) with British sailors at the oars.
 
Slowly but steadily, in glorious early sunshine, the invasion force
proceeded across three miles of water, until, at precisely eight
o’clock, at the flash of a signal gun from the Phoenix, all 4,000 troops
went ashore on the long, flat, empty beach at Gravesend Bay.
 
Everything had been carefully prepared, every move of the army
and navy carefully coordinated. The landing was as smooth as if it
had been rehearsed, and there was no opposition. The comparative
few of Colonel Edward Hand’s Pennsylvania riflemen posted near
the shore had already withdrawn, driving off or killing cattle as they
went, and burning wheat fields and farm buildings. The dense
columns of smoke rising in the air could be seen in New York eight
miles away.
 
As more troops followed, a naval spectacle of more than ninety
vessels filled the Narrows. Wave after wave of soldiers came on,
their red coats and polished bayonets gleaming in the bright
sunshine. One battalion of blue-coated Hessian grenadiers was
ferried over standing in ranks, muskets in hand and in order of battle.
By noon a fully equipped army of 15,000 men and forty pieces of
artillery had landed and rapidly, smoothly assembled in perfect
formation on the adjacent plain. And still more would follow, including
the women who were with the army.
 
Loyalists by the hundreds converged to welcome the invaders,
many of them bringing long-hidden supplies of all kinds. The
welcome was more effusive even than it had been on Staten Island.
Meanwhile, Cornwallis and the advance guard pressed directly
inland for six miles to establish a camp at the little Dutch village of
Flatbush, near the wooded Heights of Gowan.
 
It all made a picturesque scene, wrote Ambrose Serle—

Page 196
Page 196
15,000 troops upon a fine beach…[then] forming upon
the adjacent plain…. Ships and vessels with their sails
spread open to dry, the sun shining clear upon them, the
green hills and meadows after the rain…. Add to all this, the
vast importance of the business…and the mind feels itself
wonderfully engaged.
 
British sailors who came ashore “regaled themselves with the fine
apples, which hung everywhere upon the trees in great abundance,”
Serle continued. “It was really diverting to see sailors and apples
tumbling from the trees together.”
 
But other aspects of the scene were anything but picturesque. A
Hessian officer, Lieutenant Johann Heinrich von Bardeleben,
described burned-out houses, fields in ashes, roads lined with dead
cattle, and old people looking with sadness at what “appeared
previously to have been a paradise standing in blooming
abundance.”
 
Our regiment was camped amidst orchards of apple and
pear trees…. Here, too, the picture of destruction was to be
seen on all sides. Almost everywhere there were chests of
drawers, chairs, mirrors with gold-gilded frames, porcelain,
and all sorts of items of the best and most expensive
manufacture.
 
The Hessian and British troops alike were astonished to find
Americans blessed with such abundance—substantial farmhouses
and fine furnishings. “In all the fields the finest fruit is to be found,”
Lieutenant von Bardeleben wrote after taking a walk on his own,
away from the path of destruction. “The peach and apple trees are
especially numerous…. The houses, in part, are made only of wood
and the furnishing in them are excellent. Comfort, beauty, and
cleanliness are readily apparent.”

Page 197
Page 197
To many of the English, such affluence as they saw on Long
Island was proof that America had indeed grown rich at the expense
of Great Britain.
 
In fact, the Americans of 1776 enjoyed a higher standard of living
than any people in the world. Their material wealth was considerably
less than it would become in time, still it was a great deal more than
others had elsewhere. How people with so much, living on their own
land, would ever choose to rebel against the ruler God had put over
them and thereby bring down such devastation upon themselves
was for the invaders incomprehensible.
*** 
 
WORD REACHED NEW YORK early in the day, but Washington
was badly misinformed about the size of the enemy force that had
come ashore. Told that there were 8,000 or 9,000, he quickly
concluded the landing was the feint he had expected, and
consequently he dispatched only 1,500 more troops across the East
River to Brooklyn, bringing the total American strength on Long
Island to something less than 6,000 men. The expectation of
another, larger strike by the British at New York or up the Hudson
persisted. But then no one seemed to know what was going on.
 
Lieutenant Jabez Fitch, whose Connecticut regiment was one of
those ordered across the river, wrote in his diary of being marched
forward at Brooklyn about a mile before being told to halt and wait for
further orders.
 
While we are waiting we hear many various reports
concerning the enemy, some say they are within four miles
of us, others, two and a half. Others say they have not
advanced more than a mile from where they landed, which
is near ten miles. So on the whole we know not what to
believe concerning them until we can see them.

Page 198
Page 198
Colonel Moses Little, whose information was remarkably
accurate, reported to his son that the enemy was within three miles,
and said in the same letter, “I have thought fit to send you my will.”
 
Meanwhile, impressive numbers of Connecticut reinforcements
had been arriving in New York. Only that day, twelve Connecticut
regiments paraded in the city. “Almost one half of the grand army
now consists of Connecticut troops!” an officer boasted to his wife.
The whole army, noted Joseph Reed, was in better spirits than he
had ever seen.
 
Not until the following day, August 23, did Washington confirm in
his general orders that the British had come ashore on Long Island.
Leaving no doubt about the seriousness of the moment for every
man in the army, he appealed to their pride and patriotism and love
of liberty.
 
The hour is fast approaching, on which the honor and
success of this army, and the safety of our bleeding country
depend. Remember officers and soldiers that you are free
men, fighting for the blessings of liberty—that slavery will be
your portion, and that of your posterity, if you do not acquit
yourselves like men.
 
Nor should they forget that they faced an enemy who held them
in contempt.
 
Remember how your courage and spirit have been
despised and traduced by your cruel invaders, though they
have found by dear experience at Boston, Charlestown,
and other places, what a few brave men contending in their
own land, and in the best of causes can do, against base
hirelings and mercenaries.
 
They must be “cool but determined.” And again, as at Boston, he
threatened instant death to any man who showed cowardice.

Page 199
Page 199
To General Heath, in command of defenses to the north at King’s
Bridge, Washington sent a message saying he dared not weaken his
forces in New York until he could be certain of the enemy’s real
intentions.
 
“I have never been afraid of the force of the enemy,” Heath
answered. “I am more so of their arts. They must be well watched.
They, like the Frenchman, look one way and row the other.”
 
Joseph Reed, who was as close to Washington as anyone,
expressed the same extreme concern. “The greatest vigilance is had
to prevent a surprise,” he wrote, “which we have to fear more than
anything.”
 
Washington crossed to Brooklyn that afternoon to confer with
General Sullivan. There had been some minor skirmishing only, he
was told, and he returned to New York still more convinced that
Howe had yet to commit his full force.
 
If the British had made no advance on New York with their fleet
since landing on Long Island, he reported to Congress, that could
very well be because it was not in their power. For days the wind had
either been head-on against them or too little when the tide served.
 
Washington was beset by second thoughts. On August 24, he
reshuffled the command at Brooklyn, placing Israel Putnam over
Sullivan, a move likely to unsettle the troops who had seen the
stricken Greene replaced by Sullivan, and now Sullivan superseded
by Putnam all in a matter of days.
 
Brave, popular “Old Put” might be the man to boost morale, but
he had neither the experience nor the temperament to direct so large
a force under such conditions and was thus a poor choice, as
Washington seems to have realized almost at once.

Page 200
Page 200
Putnam and six battalions crossed to Brooklyn early the next day,
a Sunday, causing a great stir. “Scarcely were religious services
finished,” wrote Abner Benedict, “when strains of martial music were
heard from the ferry, and not long after column after column came
winding up the Heights toward the fort…. The general was received
with loud cheers, and his presence inspired universal confidence.”
 
The day’s orders from Sullivan deplored the disorder and
unsoldierly behavior displayed in the camps on the eve of battle. Yet
soldiers were here, there, and everywhere, strolling about as if on
holiday, some of them miles from the lines. “Carts and horses driving
every way among the army,” wrote Philip Fithian. “Men marching out
and coming in…. Small arms and field pieces continually firing. All in
tumult.”
 
The contrast between such disorder and flagrant disregard for
authority and the perfectly orchestrated landing by Howe’s troops
could not have been more pronounced.
 
Arriving at Brooklyn, Washington was outraged by what he saw,
and in a letter written later in the day, he lectured Old Put as he
might the greenest lieutenant. All “irregularities” must cease at once.
“The distinction between a well regulated army and a mob is the
good order and discipline of the first, and the licentious and
disorderly behavior of the latter.”
 
Seeing things as they were, not as he would wish they were, was
known to be one of Washington’s salient strengths, and having
witnessed firsthand the “loose, disorderly, and unsoldierlike” state of
things among the troops at Brooklyn, and knowing how outnumbered
they were by the enemy, he might have ordered an immediate
withdrawal back to New York while there was still time. But he did
not, nor is there any evidence that such a move was even
considered.

Page 201
Page 201
In New York all the while, more than half the army, including
many of his best troops and best officers, like Henry Knox, waited in
anxious expectation of an attack there. “We expect the fleet up every
tide if the wind serves,” wrote a Connecticut colonel, William
Douglas.
 
That same Sunday another 5,000 Hessians crossed the Narrows
from Staten Island bringing Howe’s total forces on Long Island to
20,000.
 
*** 
 
WASHINGTON RETURNED AGAIN to Brooklyn early the
following day, August 26, to confer still again with his commanders
and appraise the defenses and deployment of troops. Almost
certainly he rode beyond Brooklyn to the Heights of Gowan, where
from the ridge line he could have seen the white tents of the British
spread across the plain at Flatlands. (“General Washington, with a
number of general officers went down to view the motion of the
enemy,” reads one account.) With his telescope, he could well have
watched Howe’s troops on their daily parade.
 
The plan was for General Putnam to direct the entire defense
from the fortifications on Brooklyn Heights. Generals Sullivan and
Stirling and their troops were to be positioned well forward on the
“out work” of the wooded ridge, to cover the few main roads or
passes through that long, natural barrier.
 
The Gowanus Road was on the far right, near the Narrows. The
Flatbush Road was at the center and thought to be the way the
British would come. A third, the Bedford Road, was off to the left. All
three were comparatively narrow cuts through the ridge and thus
“easily defensible.”
 
The ridge of hills and woods was all that separated the two
armies but was seen by the Americans as the ideal forward line of

Page 202
Page 202
defense, and so to their decided advantage. Joseph Reed, doubtless
reflecting Washington’s view, deemed it “very important.” The fight
when it came would surely come there, in the woods, where, it was
agreed, Americans fought best.
 
Stirling was responsible for the Gowanus Road on the right,
where about 500 troops were posted. Sullivan had command of both
the Flatbush Road at the center, where 1,000 were deployed, and
the Bedford Road, on the left flank, where another 800 or so were
positioned under Colonel Samuel Miles of Pennsylvania. In the
absence of uniforms, every man was to put a sprig of green in his
hat as identification.
 
Washington’s specific order to Putnam, who knew almost nothing
about Long Island, having visited there only occasionally, was to
position his best troops forward and “at all hazards prevent the
enemy’s passing the wood and approaching the works.”
 
As things stood, a force of fewer than 3,000 soldiers, nearly all of
whom had had no experience in battle, were expected to hold a
ridge four miles long, while the rest, another 6,000, remained within
the Brooklyn forts. In all, the outposts stretched six miles. The terrain
was so rugged that units had trouble communicating, and so thickly
wooded that in places men were blind to any movement beyond a
hundred feet.
 
Had there been American cavalry to serve as “eyes and ears,” or
had there been reliable intelligence, the defenders might have had a
better chance. But there was neither. The Continental Army had no
cavalry. Congress had not considered cavalry necessary, nor had
Washington asked for any. And however adamant he was about the
value of spies, as circumstances were, he had none.
 
Nor in the five days since the British landing had anyone been
stationed at a fourth, lesser-known pass on the far left, three miles
east of the Bedford Road. The Jamaica Pass, as it was called, was

Page 203
Page 203
narrower even than the others, and thus the easiest to defend. Yet
nothing had been said in any of the orders of Sullivan, or Putnam, or
Washington expressing concern about the Jamaica Pass or the need
to post sufficient troops there.
 
Having looked things over and conferred with his commanders,
Washington approved the plan, including, presumably, a last-minute
idea of having the Jamaica Pass patrolled by five young militia
officers who had horses.
 
Washington returned to New York that evening convinced at last
that the British would make their “grand push” against Brooklyn. Or
so he wrote to John Hancock. To General Heath he also wrote that
by the “present appearance of things” the enemy would make their
“capital impression” on Long Island. But then, as if still unable to
make up his mind, he cautioned yet again that it might all be “only a
feint to draw over our troops to that quarter, in order to weaken us
here.”
 
His army, he knew, was ill prepared for what was to come. There
was more sickness in the ranks than at any time before. Only a few
of his officers had ever faced an enemy on the field of battle. He
himself had never commanded an army in battle. His responsibilities,
the never-ending “load of business,” weighed heavily. The same
uncertainties that had vexed him in his first days of command at New
York vexed him still. The enemy could not delay much longer. The
time for warm-weather campaigning, “the season for action,” was
fast waning, yet even now he consoled himself with the hope that he
had a few more days before the enemy would strike.
 
It had been a long, anxious day, and in the privacy of his quarters
in the Mortier house, Washington turned his mind—turned for relief it
would seem—to thoughts of home. Alone at his desk, he wrote a
long letter to his manager at Mount Vernon, Lund Washington, filled
with thoughts on the marketing of flour and specific directions

Page 204
Page 204
concerning work on additions to the house. For much of the letter it
was as though he had nothing else on his mind.
 
I wish most ardently you could get the north end of the
house covered in this fall, if you should be obliged to send
all over Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania for nails to do
it with. Unless this is done it will throw everything
exceedingly backward—retard the design of planting
trees…besides keeping the house in a disagreeable littered
situation. It is equally my wish to have the chimneys run up.
In short I would wish to have the whole closed in (if you
were even to hire many workmen of different kinds to
accomplish it).
 
Of the war he wrote that a few more days would likely “bring
matters to an issue one way or other.” If he did not think the struggle
just, nothing on earth could “compensate [for] the loss of all my
domestic happiness and requite me for the load of business which
constantly presses upon and deprives me of every enjoyment.”
 
What he may have written to his wife Martha that night, or at any
point in the course of events to come, is unknown, since she later
destroyed all but three of his letters to her, and these survived only
by accident. His sleep that night was to be abbreviated, yet the most
he would have for days.
 
*** 
 
GENERAL HENRY CLINTON, not an impressive man in looks or
manner, had thus far in the war done little to show that appearances
could be deceiving, and that he had, as he knew, marked intelligence
and ability. For more than a year he had fared poorly in the service of
his King. At Boston, he and William Howe had been continuously at
odds, and he had failed most grievously (in his mind) to convince
Howe to seize Dorchester Heights before the rebels did. Sent off to
South Carolina, he had failed in his mission there. An attack on Fort

Page 205
Page 205
Sullivan at Charleston in June had been such a humiliating defeat for
the British that the campaign had to be abandoned, and largely
because Clinton had been too cautious. Then, returning to New
York, he had seen all his arguments for an invasion up the Hudson
rejected out of hand by Howe.
 
Clinton knew his failings. He knew he could be difficult, inclined to
“speak too freely,” that he was touchy and that in discussion his
excessive zeal often worked to his disadvantage.
 
On paper, however, Henry Clinton could be bold and convincing,
and he had returned from Charleston greatly changed in outlook. His
defeat had convinced him that the war should be waged not to
conquer territory but to destroy the rebel army by outflanking it
whenever or wherever possible, if not by water, then on land. As a
strategist, he knew well how to use a map. “Look at the map,” he
would proclaim.
 
Soon after the landing at Gravesend, accompanied by another
general, Sir William Erskine, and Lord Rawdon, Clinton had ridden
off to reconnoiter the rebel defenses and the few passes through the
wooded Heights of Gowan. Told by Loyalist farmers of the little-used
Jamaica Pass beyond the Bedford Road, and that it appeared to be
unguarded, the three British officers continued on to find that what
they had been told was true.
 
Clinton immediately drew up a plan. This time, however, instead
of going to Howe to make the case himself, he asked General
Erskine to take what he had written to the headquarters at Flatlands.
It read as follows:
 
The position which the rebels occupy in our front may be
turned by a gorge about six miles from us, through a
country in which cavalry may make the avant garde. That,
once possessed, gives us the island; and in a mile or two
further we shall be on the communications with their works

Page 206
Page 206
at Brooklyn. The corps which attempts to turn this flank
must be in very great force, for reasons too obvious to
require detailing. The attack should begin on the enemy’s
right by signal; and a share [should be] taken in it even by
the fleet, which (as the tide will then suit) may get under
way and make every demonstration of forcing by the
enemy’s batteries in the East River, without, however,
committing themselves. The efforts to be made by the army
will be along thedos d’ane at the points of Flatbush, New
Utrecht, etc. These [are] the principle [attacks]; many other
small ones to cooperate. They should all be vigorous but
not too obstinately persisted in, except that which is
designed to turn the left of the rebels, which should be
pushed as far as it will go. The moment this corps gets
possession of the pass above Howard’s House [Howard’s
Tavern], the rebels must quit directly or be ruined. I beg
leave also to propose that this corps may begin to move at
nightfall, so that everything may be [ready] at its ground by
daybreak.
 
Several days passed. Then on August 26, the same day
Washington spent looking things over at Brooklyn, Clinton was sent
for and told by Howe that the attack would be made entirely
according to his plan and to be prepared to march that night.
 
General Grant, with two brigades, was to make a “spirited” early-
morning diversion close to the Narrows, striking at the enemy’s right.
General Leopold Philipp von Heister’s Hessians, another 4,000 men,
would move out from Flatbush to keep the Americans occupied at
the center. In the meantime, the main body of the army would move
under the cover of dark to be in position at daybreak.
 
Clinton was to command the advance guard on the night march,
General Howe following with the rest of the main force, numbering in
all 10,000 men.

Page 207
Page 207
*** 
 
IF ASKED TO DESCRIBE the common soldiers of the King’s
army, the redcoats now falling in and dressing their ranks in the
gathering dusk at Flatlands, most of the American soldiers who lay in
wait for them would probably have said they were hardened, battle-
scarred veterans, the sweepings of the London and Liverpool slums,
debtors, drunks, common criminals and the like, who had been
bullied and beaten into mindless obedience. It was the common
American view. The truth was something else.
 
That the rank-and-file British regular was far better trained, better
disciplined, better equipped, and more regularly paid than his
American counterpart was beyond question, as the commanders on
both sides well appreciated. Further, the redcoats were in far better
health over all. Proper sanitation was part of British army life, and
discipline in this regard was as strictly enforced as any aspect of the
daily routine. Even after their long summer encampment on Staten
Island, the British troops, as their officers noted repeatedly, were in
excellent health, in striking contrast to the reports of rampant illness
among the rebels.
 
In an effort to explain why the “provincials” would, in their own
climate, be so afflicted with “putrid disorders,” while his Majesty’s
troops, who were foreign to the climate, would enjoy near perfect
health, the London Chronicle said the difference was the great
cleanliness of the regulars.
 
Among the regular troops every private soldier is obliged
to put on a clean shirt twice, perhaps three times a week,
according to the season and climate; and there are a
certain number of officers appointed every day to see that
each man washes his own linen, if he had not a woman to
do it for him.

Page 208
Page 208
While the dregs of society did indeed count among the King’s
troops, the great majority were young countrymen from rural
England, Scotland, and Ireland. They were farmers, unskilled
laborers, and tradesmen—blacksmiths, cordwainers, carpenters,
bakers, hatters, locksmiths, and weavers—who had been recruited,
not pressed into service, drawn by the promise of clothing, food, and
steady, if meager, pay, along with a chance at adventure, perhaps
even a touch of glory. In their rural or small-town origins they were
not greatly different from their American counterparts.
 
The average British regular was in his late twenties, or about five
years older than the average American soldier, but the average
regular had served five or six years in the army, or five or six times
longer than the average volunteer under Washington. To the British
rank-and-file there was nothing novel about being a soldier. The
harsh life was their way of life. They carried themselves like soldiers.
They had rules, regulations, and traditions down pat. They were
proud to serve in His Majesty’s army, proud of the uniform, and
fiercely proud of and loyal to their regiments.
 
On a day such as this, on the eve of battle, they would have
given close attention to all the particulars of their arms and
accoutrements, and each man to his own appearance. Most would
be freshly shaved and their uniforms made as presentable as
possible. On the move, seen from a distance, they looked glorious in
their red coats and crossbelts, marching rank on rank, their huge
regimental battle flags flying at the front atop ten-foot poles. Seen up
close, however, the red coats, waist-length in front, longer at the
back, were often faded and out at the elbows. Cuffs were frayed,
knees patched, stockings or marching gaiters often torn beyond
mending, try as each man would to look the part.
 
And with the pride in who and what they were went a very real
contempt for, even hatred of, their American foes, whom they saw as
cowards and traitors.

Page 209
Page 209
But by no means were they all battle-scarred veterans. Some of
the older soldiers and officers were veterans of the killing fields of
Europe during the Seven Years’ War, or the French and Indian War
in America, or had survived the retreat from Concord or the Battle of
Bunker Hill. The rest, the great majority of the British forces on Long
Island, including the Germans, knew only the drill and routine of
army life. For as long as the average soldier in Howe’s ranks had
been in service, it had been longer still, more than ten years, since
Britain had last waged war. For most of the redcoats, soldiers and
young officers, like nearly all of the Americans, the battle to come
was to be their first.
 
*** 
 
BY NIGHTFALL EVERYTHING WAS READY. At nine came the
order to move out. Clinton led a crack brigade of light infantry with
fixed bayonets. Cornwallis followed with eight reserve battalions and
fourteen pieces of artillery. They in turn were followed by Generals
Howe and Percy with another six battalions, more artillery, and
baggage wagons. The column of 10,000 stretched more than two
miles. At the head of the advance guard rode two mounted officers,
Captains William Glanville Evelyn and Oliver DeLancey, Jr., and
three Loyalist farmers who knew the way.
 
The white tents at Flatlands were left standing, campfires
burning, all to appear as though nothing were happening.
 
The night was unseasonably cool. The long column moved with
utmost silence and extremely slowly. An exhausted Scottish officer
who had had several sleepless nights on duty, described the march
as one of the worst he had known and endless. “We dragged on at
the most tedious pace,” wrote Sir James Murray, “halting every
minute just long enough to drop asleep, and to be disturbed again in
order to proceed twenty yards in the same manner.”

Page 210
Page 210
By agreeing to Clinton’s plan—by committing a force of such
numbers to a night march through unknown country, led like the blind
by three local farmers who might or might not be all they professed—
William Howe was putting his army at extreme risk. In the event of
discovery or sudden, surprise attack by the enemy, his stretched-out
column could be chopped to pieces. If all went as planned, the
maneuver would look like little more than a classic turning of the
enemy’s flank, but it took no great stretch of imagination to picture
the unforeseen circumstances, the vagaries of chance that could
play havoc.
 
As it was, no one except the commanders knew the details of the
plan. Not an officer or a man knew where they were going.
 
The route was northeast along what was known as the King’s
Highway, then at the village of New Lots the troops would swing
north toward the Heights of Gowan.
 
The advance guard moved more swiftly, at the same time
“sweeping up” any local inhabitants who looked as though they might
give the alarm. When the three Loyalist guides warned that the
rebels could be waiting at Schoonmaker’s Bridge over a little salt
creek that emptied into Jamaica Bay, the whole column halted while
skirmishers went ahead. But there was no one at the bridge and the
army continued on.
 
Nor was there a sign of the rebels at Howard’s Tavern, which
stood a few hundred yards from the entrance to the Jamaica Pass.
By then it was two in the morning. The tavernkeeper and his
fourteen-year-old son were rousted out of bed, closely questioned,
and pressed into service as additional guides. The pass, as far as
they knew, was unguarded.
 
Captains Evelyn and DeLancey and other mounted officers rode
ahead into the pass, a winding, rocky road through a narrow gorge
over-hung by trees and little wider than a bridle path.

Page 211
Page 211
It was only ten minutes or so after leaving the tavern when the
officers came up on five dark figures on horseback, the five
Americans on patrol. When the Americans, supposing the British
officers to be a party of their own troops, fell in with them, all five
were immediately captured without a shot fired or scarcely a sound.
 
The prisoners were taken to General Clinton, who succeeded in
learning from them that they alone were patrolling the pass, and that
indeed the pass was entirely unguarded.
 
When Clinton pressed harder, demanding to know how many
rebel troops were at Brooklyn, one of the Americans, Lieutenant
Edward Dunscomb, a twenty-two-year-old graduate of King’s
College, told Clinton indignantly that under different circumstances
he would never insult them in such a manner. Called “an impudent
rebel” and threatened with hanging, Dunscomb said that General
Washington would respond in kind and hang man for man. But
Dunscomb’s courage made little difference. He and the other
prisoners were taken away, and Clinton and the advance guard
moved on.
 
By first light they were through the gorge and at the Bedford
Road on the other side of the ridge. The men were told to lie down in
the tall grass by the road and get some rest.
 
For the main body of the army the march through the pass took
nearly two hours. (Wherever a tree had to be cleared to make way
for the artillery and wagons, it had to be done with saws instead of
axes in order to maintain all possible silence.) By the time Howe and
the army reached the Bedford Road, the sun was up.
 
At exactly nine o’clock, with the blasts of two heavy cannon—the
prearranged signal for the Hessians at the center and General Grant
on the American right to commence their assaults—Howe’s army

Page 212
Page 212
pushed on down the road toward the village of Bedford and to
Brooklyn beyond.
 
Years later, Henry Clinton would remember Howe being
extremely apprehensive. “The commander-in-chief seemed to have
some suspicion the enemy would attack us on our march, but I was
persuaded that, as they [had] neglected to oppose us at the gorge,
the affair was over.”
 
Good fortune had accompanied them through the night. Nothing
had gone amiss. The troops had marched nine miles in pitch
darkness through unfamiliar country and in perfect order. Everything
was on schedule and the day, like the day they first came ashore on
Long Island, was perfectly beautiful. 
 
II
Contents - Prev / Next
 
IT WAS THREE IN THE MORNING when General Putnam was
awakened by one of the guards at the Brooklyn headquarters and
told the enemy was attacking on the right near the Narrows, at the
Gowanus Road.
 
The British commander, Grant, had decided to occupy the
attention of the Americans on that part of the line ahead of schedule.
Three hundred British troops had stormed into the Gowanus Pass
with a roar of musket fire and the Americans on guard, green militia,
fled as fast as they could.
 
Putnam rushed to Lord Stirling’s camp outside the Brooklyn lines
to order Stirling to move to meet the enemy and “repulse them,” little
knowing how many of the enemy there were. Alarm guns sounded,
drums rolled as troops fell out at the forts. General Samuel Parsons,
who with Stirling shared responsibility for defenses on the Gowanus

Page 213
Page 213
Road, and who, like Putnam, had been resting at the Brooklyn
headquarters, mounted his horse and galloped off to arrive first on
the scene. Until the year before, Parsons had been a small-town
Connecticut lawyer.
 
I found by fair daylight, the enemy were through the
wood and descending the hill on the north side, on which,
with twenty of my fugitive guard being all I could collect, I
took post on a height in their front at about half a mile’s
distance—which halted their column and gave time for Lord
Stirling with his forces to come up.
 
Stirling’s forces numbered 1,600 men and included Colonel
Huntington’s Connecticut regiment, in which Jabez Fitch served, and
Colonel Samuel Atlee’s Pennsylvania battalion, in addition to
Smallwood’s Marylanders and Haslet’s colorful Delaware battalion,
which were thought to be the two best units in the army. But as it
happened, both their commanders, James Smallwood and John
Haslet, were absent, on court-martial duty in New York.
 
“A little before day, as we marched towards the enemy two miles
from our camp, we saw them,” wrote a nineteen-year-old lieutenant
with the Delaware troops, Enoch Anderson. In what seemed no time
they were in the middle of what Moses Little called “a smart
engagement.”
 
The redcoat regiments came on “in regular order,” colors flying,
field artillery out in front. Stirling drew up his lines and, in the words
of another American soldier, offered them “battle in true English
taste.” The British marched to within two hundred yards, then
opened fire with cannon and muskets, “now and then taking off a
head,” as the same soldier wrote. “Our men stood it amazingly well,
not even one of them showed a disposition to shrink.” Their orders
were to hold their fire until the enemy came within fifty yards. “But
when they perceivedwe stood their fire so cool and so resolutely,
they declined to come any nearer, although treble our number.”

Page 214
Page 214
“We gave them a fair fire—every man leveled well,” young Enoch
Anderson recounted:
 
I saw one man tumble from his horse—never did I take
better aim at a bird—yet I know not that I killed any or
touched any. The fire was returned and they killed two of
our men dead, none wounded. It became proper for us to
retreat and we retreated about four hundred yards and were
joined by Captain Atlee’s regiment.
 
Twice within an hour the British assaulted Parson’s troops on
their high ground, and twice the American lines held. Stirling’s men
were under steady cannon bombardment, but American cannon
answered in kind and in the roar and smoke the American troops
never flinched.
 
In this its first hours of battle with the enemy on an open field, the
Continental Army fought valiantly, believing they were holding their
own against British regulars. Addressing the troops, Stirling
reminded them that it was General Grant who had boasted that with
5,000 men he could conquer all of America. But as they could not
know, Grant was pressing his advantage only so much, holding back
according to plan. “We had a skirmishing and a cannonade for some
hours, which drew their whole attention,” Grant would later say.
 
***
 
AT THE CENTER, where Hessian artillery had been bombarding
Sullivan’s lines along the ridges since early morning, General von
Heister’s brigades could be seen drawn up on the plain to the south,
but showed no sign of moving. Three Hessian brigades stood waiting
in a line nearly a mile long.

Page 215
Page 215
Sullivan had ridden out from Brooklyn to take command at the
Flatbush Pass. Seeing that the Hessians were not moving and that
Stirling was in trouble on the right, he sent some of his regiments to
help.
 
Until nine o’clock the battle seemed to be unfolding about as the
Americans had expected, with the enemy attacking, or poised to
attack, head-on.
 
But at nine came the crash of Howe’s signal guns, and suddenly
Sullivan realized that a whole British army was coming at him from
behind and that he was surrounded.
 
On the plain beyond the ridge, General von Heister gave the
order and with drums rolling, the Hessians were in motion.
 
Leaving his advance guard posted along the ridge to do what
they could to hold off the Hessians, Sullivan pulled back his main
force and swung around to face the oncoming British ranks. And
though vastly outnumbered, the Americans returned the British fire
with murderous effect. Officers on both sides feared their men would
be cut to pieces, and officers and soldiers on both sides often had no
idea what was happening. Nor was it the Americans only who, when
faced with annihilation, ran for their lives.
 
A British light infantry officer who led thirty of Clinton’s advance
guard into the “very thick” of several hundred American riflemen, saw
a third of his men go down in the most ferocious exchange of fire he
had ever known. When he and a half dozen redcoats broke for the
woods, more rebels sprang up out of nowhere. The fire seemed to
come from every direction.
 
I called to my men to run to the first wall they could find
and we all set off, some into some short bushes, others
straight across a field…[and] in running across the field we
[were] exposed to the fire of 300 men. We had literally run

Page 216
Page 216
out in the midst [of them] and they calling to me to
surrender. I stopped twice to look behind me and saw the
riflemen so thick and not one of my own men. I made for
the wall as hard as I could drive and they peppering at
me…at last I gained the wall and threw myself headlong.
 
In the turmoil and confusion, Sullivan struggled to hold control
and keep his men from panicking. Their situation was desperate;
retreat was the only alternative, and in stages of “fight and flight,” he
lead them as rapidly as possible in the direction of the Brooklyn
lines.
 
Those left to hold the ridge had by now been overrun by the
Hessians. Green-coated jaegers (literally, huntsmen) and the blue-
coated grenadiers with their seventeen-inch bayonets had moved up
through the steep woods of the ridge—the “terrible hills”—as swiftly
and expertly as any Virginia rifleman. So suddenly did they appear
that the Americans had time to get off only a shot or two, or none at
all. Some fought back, wielding their muskets and rifles like clubs,
before being run through with bayonets. Some pleaded for mercy.
“Their fear of the Hessian troops was…indescribable,” wrote General
von Heister. At the very sight of a blue coat, he said, “they
surrendered immediately and begged on their knees for their lives.”
Those who could get away fled back down through the trees and out
into the open, only to run headlong into a hail of British fire.
 
At the same time, the whole left side of the American line
collapsed. Thousands of men were on the run, hundreds were
captured. Sullivan held back, in an effort to see as many as possible
to safety, and amazingly most of the men succeeded in reaching the
Brooklyn lines.
 
Sullivan, however, was captured. An American soldier named
Lewis Morris, who himself barely escaped, wrote of Sullivan in a
letter home. “The last I heard of him, he was in a cornfield close by
our lines, with a pistol in each hand, and the enemy had formed a

Page 217
Page 217
line each side of him, and he was going directly between them. I like
to have been taken prisoner myself.”
 
***
 
THE PRECISE TIME of Washington’s arrival on the scene at
Brooklyn was not recorded, but it is believed he crossed over from
New York at about nine o’clock, or just as Howe’s signal guns
sounded.
 
Like General Putnam, Washington, too, had been awakened in
the middle of the night with word of Grant’s early assault, and at
daybreak, still apprehensive of a second, larger attack on New York,
Washington had watched with increasing anxiety as five enemy
warships—Roebuck, Asia, Renown, Preston,and Repulse —started
for the East River with a favorable wind and tide. It was what he had
most feared.
 
Then miraculously the wind had veered off to the north. The
ships, after tacking to and fro, trying to gain headway, at last gave
up. Only the Roebuck could “fetch high enough” to threaten the
battery at Red Hook with a few random shots.
 
So Long Island it was to be, Washington saw. He immediately
ordered more troops to Brooklyn and wasted no time having himself
rowed across the river, Joseph Reed at his side.
 
Private Joseph Martin, one of those in the units ordered to march
to the Brooklyn ferry, remembered the cheers of the soldiers as they
embarked, and the answering cheers of the spectators who thronged
the wharves to watch the excitement. “They all wished us good luck
apparently.” For his own part, Private Martin could think only of the
horrors of war “in all their hideousness.”

Page 218
Page 218
On reaching the Brooklyn side, he saw, as he never had, the
blood and suffering of wounded men. “What were the feelings of
most or all the young soldiers at this time, I know not,” he would
remember, “but I know what were mine.”
 
I saw a lieutenant who…. ran round among the men of
his company, sniveling and blubbering, praying each one if
he had aught against him, or if he had injured any one, that
they would forgive him, declaring at the same time that he,
from his heart, forgave them if they had offended him…had
he been at the gallows with a halter about his neck, he
could not have shown more fear or penitence. A fine soldier
you are, I thought, a fine officer, an exemplary man for
young soldiers! I would have suffered anything short of
death rather than have made such an exhibition of myself.
 
Accounts of Washington’s activities as the battle raged are few
and somewhat conflicting. He would be remembered out in plain
view on horseback watching the clash of armies through a telescope.
Stories would be told of him riding among the troops exhorting them
to “quit yourselves like men, like soldiers,” or saying, “I will fight so
long as I have a leg or an arm.” One soldier later described him
walking the lines to rally the men. Possibly he did all of that. More
likely his place was a vantage point on Brooklyn Heights, and in any
case what was happening was out of his hands.
 
By ten o’clock his army had been hopelessly outflanked. The
British were within two miles of the Brooklyn lines. Defeated men by
the hundreds were streaming in from the battlefield, many blood-
spattered and wounded, all exhausted. Officers were missing.
Washington was facing disaster and could do nothing but sit astride
his horse and watch.
 
***

Page 219
Page 219
ONLY ON THE RIGHT did the uproar of cannon and musket fire
continue, as the indomitable Stirling and his men fought on against
Grant’s far greater force, still in the belief that they were holding the
line.
 
Colonel Samuel Atlee, who commanded the Pennsylvanians,
would remember actually thinking that the British were going down to
defeat: “For the batteries began to play and mowed them down like
grass when they retreated, and our army cried out, ‘The day is our
own!’ ”
 
But Grant kept holding back and in the interval, his division of
5,000 had been reinforced by 2,000 marines from the British ships
offshore and two companies of New York Loyalists recruited that
spring and summer by Governor Tryon.
 
Stirling had been ordered by Putnam to “repulse” the enemy, and
for lack of orders to the contrary, he and his men had held on for
nearly four hours. With great pride and no exaggeration, Colonel
John Haslet would describe how his “Delawares” stood with
“determined countenance,” in close array, their colors flying, the
enemy’s artillery “playing” on them all the while, and the enemy,
“though six times their number,” not daring to attack.
 
But they had stayed too long. At eleven o’clock Grant’s redcoats
hit hard at the center of Stirling’s line, as thousands of Hessians
struck from the woods to the left. When Stirling at last pulled back, it
was too late. More British were coming at him from the rear, on the
Gowanus Road, the line of retreat he had been counting on. A full
British division led by Cornwallis now stood between him and
Brooklyn. The only escape route still open, he saw, was in the
direction of Gowanus Bay, now on his left, across a tidal marsh and
a creek, which at high tide was about eighty yards wide, and the tide
was coming in rapidly.

Page 220
Page 220
Stirling ordered his men to “make the best of their way” through
the marsh and across the creek. Then, he and Major Mordecai Gist
and no more than 250 Marylanders attacked Cornwallis in a
headlong, valiant effort to cover the retreat of the others and perhaps
even break through the redcoats who had established their line on
the Gowanus Road beside a stone farmhouse.
 
The fighting was the most savage of the day. Driven back by a
blaze of deadly fire, Stirling’s men rallied and struck again five times.
Stirling himself fought “like a wolf.” The Marylanders, who until that
morning had never faced an enemy, fought no less tenaciously than
their commander.
 
Washington, watching from a Brooklyn hill, is said to have cried
out as he saw the Marylanders cut down time after time, “Good God,
what brave fellows I must this day lose!”
 
Giving up at last, Stirling ordered the men to scatter and try to get
back to the Brooklyn lines any way they could.
 
Of those trying to escape through the marshes, many bogged
down in the mud and could get nowhere. Men unable to swim
struggled pitifully in the swift tide of the creek and under a hail of
musket fire. Some officers swam their horses across. A few of the
men who could not swim held back and were captured.
 
An eighteen-year-old, six-month volunteer with a Pennsylvania
unit, Private Michael Graham, who started the day posted with eight
others on the ridge at the center of the American lines, had been
ordered to retreat. With men running in almost every direction, he
found himself mixed in with Stirling’s troops in their desperate flight.
 
It is impossible for me to describe the confusion and
horror…. [I] entered a swamp or marsh through which a
great many of our men were retreating. Some of them were
mired and crying to their fellows for God’s sake to help

Page 221
Page 221
them out. But every man was intent on his own safety…. At
the side of the marsh there was a pond which I took to be a
millpond. Numbers, as they came to this pond jumped in,
and some were drowned…. I got safely into camp. Out of
the eight men that were taken from the company to which I
belonged the day before the battle on guard, I only
escaped. The others were killed or taken prisoners.
 
At the time, I could not account for how it was that our
troops were so completely surrounded.
 
Joseph Hodgkins, as he later recounted for his wife, had run pell-
mell into the marshes while being fired on the whole way. He hardly
knew who was killed or drowned or taken prisoner.
 
Lord Stirling, finding himself hopelessly surrounded, and
determined not to surrender his sword to the British, broke through
their fire to a Hessian regiment and gave himself up to General von
Heister.
 
By noon or shortly thereafter the rout was over, the day lost for
the Americans. British troops, having advanced so far so rapidly
wanted to keep going and carry the attack straight to the Brooklyn
works. Numbers of British officers, too, felt it was no time to stop. But
Howe ordered a halt.
 
In his original plan, General Clinton had said that the principal
attacks, while vigorous, should not be pushed too far. The only
exception was the all-important flanking attack, which, he said,
“should be pushed as far as it will go.”
 
Clinton would later write of Howe’s decision to halt: “I had at the
moment but little inclination to check the ardor of our troops when I
saw the enemy flying in such a panic before them.” Howe himself,
recalling the mood of the men, would later write that “it required
repeated orders to prevail on them to desist.”

Page 222
Page 222
***  
 
IT HAD BEEN the first great battle of the Revolution, and by far
the largest battle ever fought in North America until then. Counting
both armies and the Royal Navy, more than 40,000 men had taken
part. The field of battle ranged over six miles, and the fighting lasted
just over six hors. And for the Continental Army, now the army of the
United States of America, in this first great test under fire, it had
been a crushing defeat.
 
“O Doleful! Doleful! Doleful!” scrawled Chaplain Philip Fithian in
his diary, expressing only the obvious.
 
To the British it was a “glorious day”—“a cheap and complete
victory” in the terse summation of General Grant. “You will be glad,”
Grant wrote to General Harvey, “that we have had the field day I
talked of in my last letter. If a good bleeding can bring those Bible-
faced Yankees to their senses, the fever of independency should
soon abate.”
 
Everything had gone like “clockwork.” Clinton’s overall plan had
succeeded “beyond our expectations,” reported Lord Percy to his
father. “Our men behaved themselves like British troops fighting in a
good cause.” In the opinion of Sir James Murray, no soldiers had
ever behaved with greater spirit.
 
In one thing only had they failed, thought Ambrose Serle. “They
could not run so fast as their foes, many of whom indeed were ready
to run over each other.”
 
In his own official reports, William Howe left no doubt about the
magnitude of the victory and was no less generous than others in his
praise of the army:

Page 223
Page 223
The behavior of both officers and soldiers, British and
Hessians, was highly to their honor. More determined
courage and steadfastness in troops have never been
experienced, or a greater ardor to distinguish themselves,
as all those who had an opportunity have amply evinced by
their actions.
 
Howe reported his losses to be less than 400—59 killed, 267
wounded, and 31 missing. The Hessians had lost a mere 5 killed and
26 wounded.
 
Rebel losses, on the other hand, numbered more than 3,000,
Howe claimed. Over 1,000 prisoners had been taken, while another
2,000 had been killed, wounded, or drowned.
 
The disparity of the losses as reported by Howe was greatly
exaggerated, however. Washington, unable to provide an exact
count, would later estimate in a report to Congress that about 700 to
1,000 of his men had been killed or taken prisoner.
 
General Parsons, who had succeeded in avoiding capture, wrote
that in the course of the battle the number of American dead he and
his men had collected, taken together with “the heap the enemy had
made,” amounted to 60, and while the total loss was still impossible
to know, Parsons judged the number of killed would be
“inconsiderable.”
 
Some of the other officers who had been in the thick of the fight
were convinced that the British had suffered more men killed than
had the Americans, but that the British took the most prisoners.
 
Very few on the American side were ready to acknowledge just
how severe a defeat it had been. In fact, American losses, though far
less than what Howe had reported, were dreadful. As close as can
be estimated about 300 Americans had been killed and over 1,000
taken prisoner, including three generals, Sullivan, Stirling, and

Page 224
Page 224
Nathaniel Woodhull. Sullivan and Stirling were to be treated with
marked courtesy by their captors, would even dine with Lord Howe
on board the Eagle. But Woodhull died of wounds a few weeks later.
 
Among the swarms of prisoners in British hands were Captain
Samuel Atlee and Lieutenant Jabez Fitch. Atlee was marched under
guard to General Howe’s headquarters at Bedford, where he and
other prisoners were subjected to “the most scurrilous and abusive
language, both from officers, soldiers, and camp-ladies, everyone…
demanding of the guard why we were taken, why we were not put to
the bayonet.”
 
Jabez Fitch, who had fought through the long day and
surrendered only after being surrounded, was confined with “a great
number of prisoners” in a barn, where he did all he could to comfort
his friend and company commander, Captain John Jewett, who had
been bayoneted twice, in the chest and stomach, and was in
excruciating pain. “I sat with him most of the night, and slept but very
little,” Fitch wrote. “The capt[ain]…was sensible of his being near his
end, often repeating that it was hard work to die.”
 
The father of ten children, Jewett made Fitch promise to describe
the circumstances of his death to his wife. Later, Fitch would write to
tell her that her husband had received his mortal wounds with a
bayonet “after he was taken prisoner and stripped of his arms and
part of his clothes.”
 
Accounts of British, Scottish, and Hessian soldiers bayoneting
Americans after they had surrendered were to become
commonplace. There were repeated stories of Hessians pinning
Americans to trees with their bayonets. A letter said to have been
written by an unnamed British officer appeared in the Massachusetts
Spy describing how readily surrendered Americans were
“dispatched.”

Page 225
Page 225
The Hessians and our Highlanders gave no quarters
[the letter read], and it was a fine thing to see with what
alacrity they dispatched the rebels with their bayonets after
we had surrendered them so that they could not resist….
You know all stratagems are lawful in war, especially
against such vile enemies to their King and country.
 
Numbers of individual Americans were indeed severely beaten
after surrendering, or, like Captain Jewett, run through with
bayonets, as reliable accounts attest, but no mass atrocities were
committed. The letter in the Massachusetts Spy —a letter quoted
repeatedly—was very likely a fake, fabricated as propaganda. Nor
was there truth to an account in a London paper of Hessians burying
five hundred American bodies in a single pit.
 
Some American prisoners, including Jabez Fitch, recorded acts
of genuine civility and kindness on the part of their captors. Even the
infamous General Grant, wrote Fitch, “was so good as to make us a
present of a side of mutton.”
 
For their British and Hessian captors, and particularly for the
Hessians, the prisoners were great curiosities, a first chance to see
close up what the rebel foe looked like. “They could not have been
taken as soldiers as they had no uniforms, but only torn blouses of
all colors,” wrote one astonished Hessian. Lieutenant von
Bardeleben, too, was surprised to see how badly clothed the
Americans were. Most, he wrote, “have nothing but a wretched
farmer’s costume and a weapon. Most of their officers are no better
dressed and until recently were only ordinary manual laborers.”
 
Writing in his diary in a code, Lieutenant von Bardeleben also
recorded that some of his fellow officers “shed their ideas of being
heroes. The prisoners who knelt and sought to surrender were
beaten.”

Page 226
Page 226
For most of the prisoners still worse treatment lay in store, when
confined and starved in old jails, church crypts, and vile British prison
ships anchored in the harbor.
 
*** 
 
IN THE REMAINING HOURS of the day, after the guns grew
silent, the Americans inside the Brooklyn defenses, expecting the
British to attack full force, waited tensely hour after hour as nothing
happened. All afternoon and into the night, pitiful cries could be
heard from wounded men who lay among the unburied dead on the
battlefield. Stragglers who had escaped capture kept coming into the
lines almost by the hour, bedraggled single soldiers or clusters of
three or four, many badly wounded. (“And the distressed wounded
came crying into the lines!” wrote Philip Fithian.) The morning after,
Mordecai Gist and nine others crossed into the camps. They were
the only ones of the valiant Marylanders to have made it back.
 
III
Contents - Prev / Next
 
ON THE MORNING of Wednesday, August 28, the situation
faced by Washington and the army was critical. Having been
outsmarted and outfought, they were now hemmed in at Brooklyn in
an area about three miles around, their backs to the East River,
which could serve as an escape route only as long as the wind
cooperated. With a change in the wind, it would take but a few British
warships in the river to make escape impossible. Brooklyn was a
trap ready to spring.
 
Yet early that morning Washington ordered still more of his army
over from New York, almost as though he did not comprehend how
perilous his position was.

Page 227
Page 227
Two Pennsylvania regiments and Colonel John Glover’s
Massachusetts troops—approximately 1,200 men—crossed the river
and marched into the Brooklyn entrenchments with considerable
show. Possibly it was this, the show, that Washington wanted, and if
so, he succeeded. The sight of the new troops, wrote the
Pennsylvania officer Alexander Graydon, brought a marked change.
“The faces that had been saddened by the disasters of yesterday
assumed a gleam of animation on our approach, accompanied with
a murmur…that ‘These were the lads that might do something.’ ”
 
In command of the fresh Pennsylvania brigades was handsome,
self-assured Thomas Mifflin, formerly of Washington’s staff at
Cambridge and now, at thirty-two, a brigadier general. Mifflin
immediately volunteered to survey the outermost defenses and
report back to Washington, little expecting the part he was soon to
play.
 
Joseph Hodgkins, so exhausted from the battle that he could
hardly hold his head up, nonetheless took time to write home to
report that “through the goodness of God,” he was still in one piece.
Like everyone, he expected at any moment to be in action again.
“The enemy are within a mile and a half of our lines,” he noted.
 
The weather had changed dramatically from the day before.
Under darkening skies, the temperature dropped ten degrees.
 
Riflemen in the outermost defenses were ordered to keep up a
steady fire at the enemy, if only to raise spirits, and the British fired
back steadily on into the afternoon when the clouds opened in a
cold, drenching downpour, the start of a northeastern storm that
brought still further misery to the defeated army.
 
Afternoon, at three, an alarm [gun] in the midst of a
violent rain [wrote Philip Fithian]. Drums heavily calling to
arms. Men running promiscuously and in columns to the
lines. All the time the rain falling with an uncommon torrent.

Page 228
Page 228
The guns of the whole army are wetted. And after the alarm
was over, which was occasioned by the regulars coming in
a greater body than usual to drive our riflemen, our troops
fired off their guns quite till evening, so that it seemed
indeed dangerous to walk within our own lines—for we
could from every part hear perpetually firing, and continually
hear the [cannon] balls pass over us.
 
The storm and the roar of the guns continued into the night.
Across the river in New York, Pastor Ewald Shewkirk wrote of the
boom of cannon at Brooklyn intermixed with flashes of lightning and
the roar of thunder.
 
The following day, Thursday, August 29, the storm continued,
heavy rains fell. Troops without tents also had little or no food. Fires
were nearly impossible to keep going for cooking or warmth. Private
Martin got by with biscuits he had had the foresight to stuff into his
knapsack before leaving New York, biscuits “hard enough to break
the teeth of a rat,” as he wrote. Anyone who had a bit of raw pork to
gnaw felt privileged. Nearly all were hungry and soaked to the skin.
In places in the trenches men stood in water up to their waists.
Muskets and cartridges were almost impossible to keep dry.
Soldiers, unable to stay awake any longer, fell asleep standing
upright in the rain or sitting without cover in the mud.
 
Washington, who had had little or no sleep, sent off a brief,
somewhat incoherent report to Congress at four-thirty in the
morning, saying his people were much “distressed.” Of the defeat of
the day before he said only that there had been “engagement” with
the enemy and that he had heard nothing from General Sullivan or
Lord Stirling. “Nor can I ascertain our loss.” Nor did he report that in
the night the British had started “advancing by approaches,” as it
was known. Instead of risking an open assault, they were digging
trenches toward the American lines and throwing up embankments
that already were no more than six hundred yards from Fort Putnam.

Page 229
Page 229
Yet for all the miseries it wrought, the storm was greatly to
Washington’s advantage. Under the circumstances, any ill wind from
the northeast was a stroke of good fortune. For as long as it held,
Lord Howe’s ships had no chance to “get up” where they could
wreak havoc.
 
But who knew how long such good fortune might serve? And
what if his luck ran out? (“But lest some unlucky event should
happen unfavorable to my reputation,” he had told Congress when
accepting his command, “I beg it may be remembered by every
gent[leme]n in the room that I this day declare with the utmost
sincerity, I do not think myself equal to the command I [am] honored
with.”)
 
He was now advised that the old ships that had been sunk in the
East River could not be counted on as a serious barrier against
British warships, and especially the smaller ships, which could come
up through that part of the East River between Governor’s Island
and Brooklyn where there were no barriers at all.
 
With the situation as grim as it could be, no one was more
conspicuous in his calm presence of mind than Washington, making
his rounds on horseback in the rain. They must be “cool but
determined,” he had told the men before the battle, when spirits were
high. Now, in the face of catastrophe, he was demonstrating what he
meant by his own example. Whatever anger or torment or despair he
felt, he kept to himself.
 
Since he first arrived in New York in April, the essence of
Washington’s policy had been to keep close watch and make
decisions according to circumstances. Sometime before noon,
having heard General Mifflin’s report on the progress made by the
British with their “approaches” during the night, as well as the
strongly expressed views of Joseph Reed, and having looked things
over himself, he made a momentous decision.

Page 230
Page 230
A secret and deliberately deceiving urgent message went off to
General Heath at King’s Bridge. Every flatbottomed boat or sloop,
almost any watercraft available, was to be rounded up “without
delay” for the reason that “we have many battalions from New Jersey
which are coming over to relieve others here.” The message was
signed by Mifflin.
 
Washington would later recall emphasizing that there be no
“ceremony” in carrying out the order—meaning that whatever boats
would serve should be confiscated on the spot.
 
Heath assigned the roundup to Colonel Hugh Hughes, a New
York schoolteacher, who, in pursuit of his mission over the next
twenty-four hours, would scarcely ever dismount from his horse.
 
At four in the afternoon, with still no letup in the rain, Washington
called a meeting with his generals at the Livingston mansion, on the
brow of Brooklyn Heights overlooking the river.
 
Mifflin, who had advised Washington that he must either fight or
retreat immediately, asked to be the one to propose the retreat, with
the understanding that if it were agreed on, he and the Pennsylvania
regiment would serve as the rear guard in the outermost defenses,
and thus hold the line until the rest of the army had departed. This
would be the most dangerous assignment of all and he insisted it be
his, Mifflin told Washington, lest by proposing retreat his reputation
should suffer.
 
In the words of the minutes of the meeting: “It was submitted to
the consideration of the council whether, under all circumstances, it
would not be eligible to leave Long Island and its dependencies
[fortifications] and remove the army to New York.”
 
Only one man expressed doubts: General John Morin Scott, a
leading New York attorney and ardent patriot-turned-soldier.

Page 231
Page 231
“As it was suddenly proposed, I as suddenly objected to it,” Scott
later wrote, “from an aversion to giving the enemy a single inch of
ground, but was soon convinced by the unanswerable reasons for it.”
 
Of the reasons put forward—ammunition spoiled by heavy rains,
the miseries and discouragement of the exhausted troops, the
enemy’s advancing by approaches, the precarious situation of an
army divided in half—the most serious was the looming threat of the
British fleet suddenly in command of the East River. As Joseph Reed
wrote in explanation, with Lord Howe trying every day to “get up”
against the wind, “it became a serious consideration whether we
ought to risk the fate of the army, and perhaps America, on
defending the circle of about three miles fortified with a few strong
redoubts, but chiefly open lines.”
 
The decision was unanimous. Orders went out and by evening
the plan was rapidly unfolding.
 
At Dorchester the year before, Washington had taken advantage
of the night to catch Howe by complete surprise. On Long Island,
Howe had sent 10,000 men through the night to catch Washington
by surprise. The night of Thursday, August 29, it was Washington’s
turn again.
 
*** 
 
THE ORDERS CAME AT SEVEN. The troops were to be “under
arms with packs and everything.” It was to be a night attack on the
enemy, they were told.
 
To Alexander Graydon, who was with the Pennsylvania regiments
assigned to the rear guard, it seemed a desperate measure, almost
suicidal. “Several nuncupative wills were made upon the occasion,
uncertain as it was, whether the persons to whom they were
communicated would survive, either to prove or to execute them.”
Graydon concentrated on summoning his own courage.

Page 232
Page 232
At about nine o’clock the troops with the least experience, along
with the sick and wounded, were ordered to start for the Brooklyn
ferry landing, on the pretext that they were being relieved by
reinforcements. But of this the soldiers nearer the front lines knew
nothing. “The thing was conducted with so much secrecy,” wrote
another of the Pennsylvanians, Lieutenant Tench Tilghman, “that
neither subalterns or privates knew that the whole army was to cross
back again to New York.” Nor were the officers told.
 
Alexander Graydon kept thinking what “extreme rashness” it was
to order an attack, given the condition of the men and their rain-
soaked arms. The more he thought, the more puzzled he became,
until suddenly it “flashed upon my mind that a retreat was the object,
and that the order for assailing the enemy was but a cover to the real
design.” The fellow officers to whom he confided his thoughts “dared
not suffer themselves to believe it.”
 
Others elsewhere in the forts and defenses began thinking that a
night escape had to be the true intent, and to weigh the risks
involved. As one particularly clear-headed officer, Major Benjamin
Tallmadge of Connecticut, would later write, putting himself in
Washington’s place:
 
To move so large a body of troops, with all their
necessary appendages, across a river full a mile wide, with
a rapid current, in face of a victorious well-disciplined army
nearly three times as numerous as his own, and a fleet
capable of stopping the navigation, so that not one boat
could have passed over, seemed to present most
formidable obstacles.
 
The rain had stopped at last, but the northeast wind that had kept
the river free of the British fleet was blowing still, and this, with an
ebb tide, was proving no less a deterrent to an American retreat.

Page 233
Page 233
The first troops ordered to withdraw to the ferry landing found that
the river was so rough that no boats could cross. The men could only
stand and wait in the dark. According to one account, General
Alexander McDougall, who was in charge of the embarkation, sent
Washington a message saying that with conditions as they were,
there could be no retreat that night.
 
It was about eleven o’clock when, as if by design, the northeast
wind died down. Then the wind shifted to the southwest and a small
armada of boats manned by more of John Glover’s Massachusetts
sailors and fishermen started over the river from New York, Glover
himself crossing to Brooklyn to give directions.
 
Glover’s men proved as crucial as the change in the wind. In a
feat of extraordinary seamanship, at the helm and manning oars
hour after hour, they negotiated the river’s swift, contrary currents in
boats so loaded with troops and supplies, horses and cannon, that
the water was often but inches below the gunnels—and all in pitch
dark, with no running lights. Few men ever had so much riding on
their skill, or were under such pressure, or performed so superbly.
 
As the boats worked back and forth from Brooklyn, more troops
were ordered to withdraw from the lines and march to the ferry
landing. “And tedious was the operation through mud and mire,” one
man remembered.
 
Wagon wheels, anything that might make noise, were muffled
with rags. Talking was forbidden. “We were strictly enjoined not to
speak, or even cough,” wrote Private Martin. “All orders were given
from officer to officer and communicated to the men in whispers.”
 
They moved through the night like specters. “As one regiment left
their station on guard, the remaining troops moved to the right and
left and filled up the vacancies,” wrote Benjamin Tallmadge, recalling
also that for many of the men it was their third night without sleep.

Page 234
Page 234
Washington, meanwhile, had ridden to the ferry landing to take
personal charge of the embarkation.
 
The orderly withdrawal of an army was considered one of the
most difficult of all maneuvers, even for the best-trained soldiers, and
the fact that Washington’s ragtag amateur army was making a night
withdrawal in perfect order and silence thus far, seemed more than
could be hoped for. The worst fear was that by some blunder the
British would discover what was afoot and descend with all their
superior force.
 
Those in greatest jeopardy, the troops in Mifflin’s vanguard, were
still holding the outer defenses. Waiting their turn to be withdrawn,
they kept busy creating enough of a stir and tending campfires to
make it appear the army was still in place, knowing all the while that
if the enemy were to become the wiser, they stood an excellent
chance of being annihilated.
 
In the event of a British attack, they were supposed to fall back
and rally at the old Dutch church in the middle of the road in the
village of Brooklyn. As the hours passed, there was no mistaking the
sound of British picks and shovels digging steadily toward them in
the darkness.
 
The full garrison at Fort Stirling on Brooklyn Heights also had
orders to stay through the night, as cover against an attack by
enemy ships.
 
At about two in the morning a cannon went off. No explanation
was ever given. “If the explosion was within our lines,” Alexander
Graydon later speculated, “the gun was probably discharged in the
act of spiking it.”
 
For the rest of his life, Graydon could never recall that night
without thinking of the scene in Shakespeare’s Henry V of the long
night wait before the Battle of Agincourt, in which, as Graydon wrote,

Page 235
Page 235
“is arrayed, in appropriate gloom, a similar interval of dread
suspense and awful expectation.”
 
*** 
 
IT WAS APPROXIMATELY four o’clock and still dark when a
young officer on horseback, Major Alexander Scammell, came riding
through the outer defenses looking for General Mifflin.
 
Scammell was twenty-nine years old and well liked. A Harvard
graduate and an attorney in civilian life, he was quick-witted,
charming, six feet two inches tall, and had been serving as an aide-
de-camp to General Sullivan.
 
Scammell told Mifflin the boats were ready at the river landing
and that Washington was anxiously waiting for the arrival of the last
remaining troops. Mifflin said Scammel had to be mistaken. He could
not imagine that Washington meant his own vanguard. Scammel
insisted he was not mistaken, saying he had ridden from the extreme
left where he had ordered all the troops he met to march for the ferry,
that they were then on the move, and that he would continue on to
give the same orders.
 
Mifflin then ordered General Edward Hand to form up the
regiment and move out as soon as possible.
 
But Scammell was mistaken. He had misunderstood Washington.
The order was a blunder of exactly the kind that could spell disaster.
 
The troops left the trenches and started for the river “without
delay,” until just beyond the Dutch church, within a half mile of the
landing, where the column halted.
 
Washington, astride his horse in the middle of the road,
demanded to know what was going on. General Hand was
explaining when Mifflin rode up. Faces were hard to see in the dark,

Page 236
Page 236
but Hand would remember Washington exclaiming, “Good God!
General Mifflin, I am afraid you have ruined us!”
 
Mifflin responded “with some warmth” that he was only obeying
Washington’s orders as delivered by Major Scammell.
 
Washington said it was a “dreadful mistake,” that they had come
too soon, that things were in “much confusion at the ferry,” and they
must turn at once and go back to their posts.
 
For the weary troops who had held the lines through the night,
counting the hours until they could be relieved and escape with the
others, and who waited now in the dark, it was a moment of extreme
difficulty, “trying business to young soldiers,” as Alexander Graydon
wrote. “Whoever has seen troops in a similar situation, or duly
contemplates the human heart in such trials well knows how to
appreciate the conduct of these brave men on this occasion.”
 
They returned to the lines as ordered, and in the words of
General Hand “had the good fortune to recover our stations and
keep them for some hours longer, without the enemy perceiving what
was going forward.”
 
*** 
 
AT THE FERRY LANDING all this time troops and supplies and
artillery were being loaded aboard one boat after another as quickly
as humanly possible and sent on their way. Everyone worked
furiously. A Connecticut soldier manning one of the boats would
remember making eleven crossings in the course of the night.
 
But the exodus was not moving fast enough. Some of the heavy
cannon, mired in mud, were impossible to move and had to be left
behind. Time was running out. Though nearly morning, a large part
of the army still waited to embark, and without the curtain of night to
conceal them, their escape was doomed.

Page 237
Page 237
Incredibly, yet again, circumstances—fate, luck, Providence, the
hand of God, as would be said so often—intervened.
 
Just at daybreak a heavy fog settled in over the whole of
Brooklyn, concealing everything no less than had the night. It was a
fog so thick, remembered a soldier, that one “could scarcely discern
a man at six yards distance.” Even with the sun up, the fog remained
as dense as ever, while over on the New York side of the river there
was no fog at all.
 
At long last Mifflin and the rear guard and the troops at Fort
Stirling were summoned. “It may be supposed we did not linger,”
wrote Alexander Graydon.
 
Major Tallmadge, who with his regiment was among the last to
depart on the boats, would write later that he thought he saw
Washington on the ferry stairs staying to the very end.
 
Graydon estimated that it was seven in the morning, perhaps a
little later, when he and his men landed in New York. “And in less
than an hour after, the fog having dispersed, the enemy was visible
on the shore we had left [behind].”
 
In a single night, 9,000 troops had escaped across the river. Not
a life was lost. The only men captured were three who had hung
back to plunder.
 
IV
Contents - Prev / Next
 
Friday, August 30th. In the morning, to our great
astonishment, found they had evacuated all their works on
Brookland…with not a shot being fired at them…neither

Page 238
Page 238
could our shipping get up for want of wind, and the whole
escaped…to New York.
 
The immediate reaction of the British was, as Major Stephen
Kemble recorded in his diary, one of utter astonishment. That the
rebel army had silently vanished in the night under their very noses
was almost inconceivable. The surprise for the British was no less
than it had been the morning of March 5, at Boston, when they
awakened to see the guns of Ticonderoga on Dorchester Heights.
The great difference now was a feeling of relief, not dread. All at
once the whole of Brooklyn and its elaborate defenses were theirs
for the taking and the rebels were on the run.
 
“We cannot yet account for their precipitate retreat,” wrote
General Grant. Like many of the British, Grant failed to understand
how the Americans, having labored for months on their massive
fortifications, could so readily abandon them.
 
General Howe had performed most admirably and deserved his
success, Grant thought. The lesson of Brooklyn, Grant decided, was
that if pushed the Americans would never face the King’s troops
again.
 
Lord Percy agreed. “They feel severely the blow of the 27th,” he
wrote to his father, “and I think I may venture to assert that they will
never again stand before us in the field. Everything seems to be over
with them, and I flatter myself now that this campaign will put a total
end to the war.” To Lord Germain as well, he predicted, “This
business is pretty near over.”
 
General Clinton, justifiably proud of his role in the triumph, wrote
to his sister that he expected to be home by Christmas.
 
As many officers as could came to see the rebel works and enjoy
the view from Fort Stirling. “This and the parts adjacent is the most
beautiful and fertile spot I have yet seen in America,” recorded

Page 239
Page 239
Ambrose Serle, who was disturbed only by the reek of the unburied
dead still strewn about in the fields.
 
As for the rebels and their flight, Serle, like many of the British,
thought they had “behaved very ill as men.”
 
But there were those, including General Grant, who saw that the
Americans had made a daring and superbly executed move. They
had “wisely” gotten out when they did, General Clinton would later
comment, and “very ably effected the retreat of their whole army.”
Charles Stedman, an officer under Lord Percy, would later write a
widely respected history of the war—one of the few histories by
someone who was actually in the war—in which he called the retreat
“particularly glorious to the Americans.” Further, he saw, as
apparently Grant did not, the peril the Americans would have faced
in the event of a change in the wind. Had the Phoenix and the Rose,
with their combined 72 guns, fetched up into the East River as they
had done before on the Hudson, Stedman emphasized, any chance
of escape would have been cut off “most completely.”
 
*** 
 
AS COMMENDABLE as Washington’s leadership during the
retreat had been, good luck had played a very large part, and wars
were not won by withdrawals, however well handled. Nor could a
successful evacuation compensate for the losses suffered in dead
and wounded and the thousand or more who had been taken
prisoner by the enemy.
 
The Battle of Brooklyn—the Battle of Long Island as it would be
later known—had been a fiasco. Washington had proven indecisive
and inept. In his first command on a large-scale field of battle, he
and his general officers had not only failed, they had been made to
look like fools.

Page 240
Page 240
Almost from the moment he took command in New York,
Washington had put himself in an impossible position. He had failed
to recognize that whether the British were to attack Manhattan or
Long Island, he was in a trap either way. General Lee had seen
clearly that “whoever commands the sea must command the town,”
and from the moment Washington chose to ignore that warning, he
was in trouble.
 
Dividing his army, he had counted on his ability to respond to
circumstances as need be, as though moving his forces back and
forth over the East River would always be his choice to make. On the
very eve of the British attack on Long Island, he was still baffled over
whether it was the real thing and, if so, what he ought to do.
 
For the British everything went as planned, from the landing at
Gravesend Bay to the night march of 10,000 men through the
Jamaica Pass to the battle itself. For Washington almost nothing
went as planned. The assumption that the British would make an all-
out frontal assault at Brooklyn, as at Bunker Hill, and as they had
seemed ready to repeat at Dorchester Heights, was the heart of the
American strategy, and it was largely wishful thinking. So quickly, so
completely was Washington outmaneuvered, the battle was virtually
over before it began. It was as though in all his anguish over where
and how he might be outflanked by water, he forgot that it could
happen on land.
 
How a man so characteristically insistent that things be done just
so, David McCullough who took such care about details, could have
let the Jamaica Pass stand unguarded is impossible to explain—and
particularly when he had spent the full day at Brooklyn, August 26,
studying the situation.
 
Washington never accounted for his part in what happened at the
Battle of Long Island, and for many the brilliant success of the night
escape would serve both as proof of his ability and a way to ease the
humiliation and pain of defeat. The Americans could also rightly

Page 241
Page 241
claim that they had been vastly outnumbered by a far-better-trained
army, and that given the odds against them, they had, in several
instances, shown exemplary courage and tenacity.
 
General Putnam was blamed for not ordering Stirling to withdraw
sooner. Sullivan was blamed for knowing too little about the terrain.
Putnam and Sullivan were both faulted for leaving the Jamaica Pass
unattended. Colonel Samuel Miles, the one supposed to be in
charge of the left flank, later claimed to have had a hunch the enemy
would make use of Jamaica Pass, yet he had done nothing about it.
Stirling, for all his bravery, was criticized for trying to fight the British
on the open field in their own fashion.
 
Many, including Henry Knox, would insist that had Nathanael
Greene, with his familiarity with every detail of the Heights of Gowan,
been present, the British would have met stiff opposition at the
Jamaica Pass and things would have gone differently. Possibly they
could have. Greene’s illness and consequent absence was without
question one of Washington’s severest blows.
 
Washington would hold Sullivan largely to blame, for too little
vigilance at the Jamaica Pass, thus implying that in his view Greene
would never have allowed a British surprise to succeed there.
 
But in fact a British victory had been certain all day, no matter
what the Americans did. The struggle might have lasted longer, the
cost to the British might have been greater, but outnumbered by
such superior troops and without control of the sea, Washington and
his army never really had a chance—and this quite apart from the far
greater experience of the British command.
 
General Howe’s decision not to continue the attack the afternoon
of the battle would be a subject of endless speculation and debate.
Among Howe’s severest critics was Captain John Montresor, who,
the morning of August 30, had been the first to discover that the
Americans had vanished in the night. To Montresor there was no

Page 242
Page 242
question that Howe should have pressed the attack and that to have
failed to do so was a grievous mistake. “Never pursues his victories”
was Montresor’s curt assessment of William Howe.
 
General Clinton, too, seemed to feel that with the Americans
“flying in such a panic” Howe had as good a chance as he would
ever have to finish them off and end the war at a stroke. But Clinton
would never say so when questioned. Rather he would write that had
he been in Howe’s position, he, too, would have “judged it prudent”
to hold back.
 
In testimony before Parliament, General Cornwallis would refuse
to say that the Brooklyn lines could have been taken by an
immediate attack, and said that at the time he never heard anyone
claim they could have been.
 
The Americans had wanted another Bunker Hill. Howe,
remembering Bunker Hill, had no desire to squander lives with
another bloody frontal attack on an army dug in on a hill, if, with a
little patience, that same hill could be taken by less costly means. “It
was apparent the lines must have been ours at a very cheap rate by
regular approaches,” he would say in explanation. “I could not risk
the loss that might have been sustained in the assault.”
 
Had Howe pressed on the afternoon of the 27th, the British
victory could have been total. Or had the wind turned earlier, and the
British navy moved into the East River, the war and the chances of
an independent United States of America could have been long
delayed, or even ended there and then.
 
*** 
 
WHEN NEWS OF THE BATTLE, together with Howe’s
exaggerated estimates of American losses, at last reached London,
it caused a sensation. A victory so grand, said the press, “fully
controverted” all the “full-mouthed predictions” of the opponents of

Page 243
Page 243
the war. Edmund Burke, Charles Fox, and others in Parliament
opposed to the war were as downcast as prominent Tories were
jubilant. News to “enliven our countenances,” the Tory historian
Edward Gibbon called it.
 
All Britain was in “an ecstasy which I cannot express,” a friend
wrote to Henry Clinton. Bells were rung in London and in rural
hamlets, windows lighted with candles. The King was reported to
have paused during a stroll in Kew Gardens to express his “great
satisfaction” with the report of General Howe, upon whom he was to
confer the Order of Bath.
 
*** 
 
IN CONGRESS the defeat was spoken of privately as an
“unfortunate beginning” at best, and more candidly as a “disaster.”
But there was no panic.
 
Elsewhere in the country early reports of the battle were taken at
first as “Tory news.” Afterward, great anxiety, if not panic, set in. “All
in solicitude,” recorded the Reverend Ezra Stiles at his home in
Newport. “Tories rejoicing. Sons of Liberty dejected.”
 
Newspapers put heavy emphasis on Washington’s daring night
retreat, calling it renewed cause for confidence in the army and in
Washington most of all. The escape from Brooklyn was “a
masterpiece,” read a report in the New England Chronicle. “The
manner in which our retreat was performed,” reported the Virginia
Gazette, “reflects the highest credit upon our commander-in-chief,
and the officers in general.”
 
While one writer in the New England Chronicle declared,
“Providence favored us,” another in the Massachusetts Spy assured
his readers that the defeat on Long Island and consequent distress
were “loud speaking testimonies of the displeasure and anger of
Almighty God against a sinful people.”

Page 244
Page 244
We have thought God was for us, and had given many
and signal instances of his power and mercy in our favor,
and had greatly frowned upon and disappointed our
enemies; and verily it has been so. But have we repented
and given him the glory? Verily no. His hand seems to be
turned and stretched out against us—and strong is his
hand.
 
In New York the gloom of defeat hung heavy. The high spirits of
the soldiers that had been counted on for so long to compensate for,
even overcome, whatever advantages the enemy might have, were
gone. The army that had crossed in the night from Brooklyn was, in
the light of day on August 30, a sorry sight to behold—filthy,
bedraggled, numb with fatigue, still soaked to the skin, many of them
sick and emaciated. The army that had gone off to Brooklyn cheering
was no more.
 
“It was a surprising change,” Pastor Shewkirk noted in his diary,
“the merry tones on drums and fifes had ceased…. It seemed a
general damp had spread, and the sight of scattered people up and
down the streets was indeed moving.”
 
They had been swiftly, overwhelmingly defeated. “A hard day
this, for us poor Yankees” was young Enoch Anderson’s unadorned
summing up of the Battle of Brooklyn.
 
But as resounding as the British victory had been, it was not a
decisive victory. The war had not been ended at a stroke by a
superior force of professional soldiers. Washington and his 9,000
troops had survived to fight another day.
 
*** 
 
FOR THE FIRST TWENTY-FOUR HOURS in New York, nearly
all were collapsed in sleep, including the commander-in-chief. Not

Page 245
Page 245
until Saturday, August 31, could Washington summon the strength
even to notify Congress of the escape. He had been “entirely unfit to
take pen in hand,” he explained. “Since Monday scarce any of us
have been out of the lines till our passage across the East River was
effected yesterday morning, and for forty-eight hours preceding that I
had hardly been of[f] my horse and never closed my eyes.”
 
Presently he was “much hurried and engaged in arranging and
making new dispositions of our forces,” he said. He would save for
another letter the extremity of the concern he felt.

Page 246
Page 246
Part III

Page 247
Page 247
The Long Retreat
 
 
These are the times that try men’s souls.
—Thomas Paine,The Crisis
December 1776
 
 
Chapter Six Fortune Frowns
Contents - Prev / Next
 
 
We want great men who, when fortune frowns, will not be
discouraged.
—Colonel Henry Knox
 
I
Contents - Prev / Next
 
I HAVE ONLY TIME to say I am alive and well,” Joseph Reed
reported to his wife Esther. His spirits, however, were but “middling.”

Page 248
Page 248
The justice of our cause, the hope of success, and every
other circumstance that can enliven us, must be put into the
scale against those of a contrary kind, which I allow to be
serious…. My honor, duty, and every other tie held sacred
among men, call upon me to proceed with firmness and
resolution…. My country will, I trust, yet be free, whatever
may be our fate who are cooped up, or are in danger of
being so, on this tongue of land, where we ought never to
have been.
 
It was “a mere point of honor which keeps us here,” he had
written earlier to a friend. Now, in the dismal aftermath of defeat, the
idea of risking the fate of America in defense of New York seemed so
senseless that submitting to the “dispensations of Providence,” as he
said, was about the only recourse left.
 
The army that had shown such remarkable discipline and unity
through the long night of the escape from Brooklyn had rapidly
become engulfed with despair, turned surly and out of hand. Gangs
of soldiers roamed the streets of New York breaking into houses and
taking whatever they wanted. Even Lord Stirling’s mansion, at the
corner of Broad and Beaver streets, was wantonly ransacked.
 
Joseph Hodgkins, already as downcast as he had ever been over
the defeat, learned in a letter from his wife of the death of their small,
ailing son. It was “heavy news,” he told her. He was trying hard not to
be discouraged over the way the war was going.
 
But only consider a minute, we have been all this
summer digging and building of forts to cover our heads
and now we have been obliged to leave them and now we
are here and not one shovel full of dirt to cover us…. I don’t
write this to discourage you or to increase you[r] trouble, but
only to let you know as near as I can of our circumstances.

Page 249
Page 249
Still concerned for her, he wrote again the next day to assure her
he himself had suffered no real damage thus far. “I had my sleeve
button shot out of my sleeve and the skin a little grazed, but through
mercy, received no other hurt.” There was no mention of giving up
and coming home.
 
But others by the hundreds were doing just that, many walking off
with their arms and ammunition. (One soldier was found lugging a
cannonball, to give to his mother, he explained, to use to pound
mustard seed.) Entire Connecticut militia units were departing en
masse, saying they had had enough. The roads in Connecticut and
New Jersey were filled with soldiers heading home. Probably one in
four carried disease, and those who did not spread their own
corrosive discouragement.
 
Men in the ranks complained they had been “sold out.” Some
were openly saying they longed for the return of General Lee.
Washington’s leadership was in question. Colonel John Haslet wrote
to Caesar Rodney, a delegate to Congress, “I fear General
Washington has too heavy a task, assisted mostly by beardless
boys.”
 
Henry Knox, whose faith in Washington never faltered, wrote to
his wife that the pressing need was for great men “who when fortune
frowns will not be discouraged.” If there was a grievous flaw in how
things were being run, it was the “stupid parsimony” of the Congress.
 
Washington had concluded his general orders for September 2
with a call for steadfastness and valor in the defense of New York:
“Now is the time for every man to exert himself and make our
country glorious or become contemptible.” But by all signs his words
had little effect. Indeed, in a letter to Congress written that same day,
Washington portrayed much of the army as plainly “contemptible.”
 
The militia, instead of calling forth their utmost efforts to
a brave and manly opposition, in order to repair our losses,

Page 250
Page 250
are dismayed, intractable, and impatient to return. Great
numbers of them have gone off, in some instances almost
by whole regiments.
 
Worse, their example had “infected” others to the point that he no
longer had confidence in the army as a whole and for the first time
questioned whether New York had become a lost cause.
 
He needed to know from Congress whether, in the event he had
to abandon the city, it should be left to “stand as winter quarters for
the enemy”—meaning, should it be burned? “They would derive
great conveniences from it, on the one hand, and much property
would be destroyed on the other.” The question, he wrote, allowed
“but little time for deliberation.”
 
The letter went immediately off to Philadelphia, where, as it
happened, General John Sullivan arrived that same day, September
2, having been temporarily paroled by Lord Howe to deliver a peace
overture to Congress. Washington, who took a dim view of Sullivan’s
mission, had nonetheless given his approval, feeling it was not for
him to withhold whatever Howe had to say. As Sullivan reported, His
Lordship, being “desirous of an accommodation with America,”
wished to meet “almost any place” with a delegation from Congress.
 
British troops all the while were advancing on the opposite shore
of the East River, heading north in the direction of King’s Bridge.
Then, in the dark of night, September 3, the first enemy ship, the
frigateRose, towing thirty flatboats, started up the river with a north-
flowing tide, anchoring ultimately in the mouth of Newtown Creek,
directly across from a large cove on the New York side known as
Kips Bay.
 
The day after brought a “mighty movement” of transports and
more flatboats up the East River, while two more frigates, the
Repulse and the Pearl, sailed into the Hudson.

Page 251
Page 251
In Philadelphia, Congress resolved that in the event General
Washington found it necessary to withdraw from New York, there
must be “no damage” done to the city, as Washington was informed
in a letter from John Hancock. And as if to underscore how little the
members of Congress comprehended the actual situation, it was
further stated that they had “no doubt of being able to recover” the
city, should the enemy “obtain possession of it.”
 
Where the British would strike was as uncertain as it had been
from the start. What Washington feared most was an attack from the
rear, in the vicinity of King’s Bridge, and having convinced himself
that this was Howe’s intention, he began moving troops there.
General Heath warned that the enemy might land on the coast of
Westchester County, beyond the Harlem River. Everything depended
on reliable intelligence, Washington told Heath, and he had none. He
urged Heath to “leave no stone unturned” or spare any expense in
finding out all he could as soon as possible.
 
“We think (at least I do) that we cannot stay,” Joseph Reed wrote
again to his wife, “and yet we do not know how to go, so that we may
be properly said to be between hawk and buzzard.”
 
Reed, who seemed older and wiser than his years, had tried
always to take a large, philosophical view of life’s travails, and this, in
combination with a natural cheerfulness and a strong, analytical
mind, had put him at the head of the legal profession in Philadelphia
while still in his early thirties. But it was a struggle now for him to
offer even a fragment of hope. It was the sluggards and skulkers, the
tavern patriots and windy politicians, who evoked a wrath he could
not contain.
 
When I look round, and see how few of the numbers
who talked so largely of death and honor are around me,
and that those who are here are those from whom it was
least expected…I am lost in wonder and surprise…. Your
noisy sons of liberty are, I find, the quietest in the field….

Page 252
Page 252
An engagement, or even the expectation of one, gives a
wonderful insight into character.
 
Though an observer only through the Battle of Brooklyn, Reed
had been with Washington throughout. For six days there had not
been time even for a change of clothes, and, like Washington, he
had had no sleep for several nights. Whether he could continue to
bear up under the strain and fatigue, as Washington seemed able to
do, remained to be seen.
 
Esther, as she wrote, hoped he would come home to be with her
at the birth of their fourth child.
 
It was thought that the American army, spread now from the
Battery to King’s Bridge, numbered 20,000, but with men deserting in
droves, it was difficult to tell. Perhaps a quarter of the men were sick,
and officers, as well as men in the ranks, often feigned sickness.
 
One of the most seriously ill had recovered, however, and with
immediate consequences. On September 5, Nathanael Greene
returned to duty and promptly submitted to Washington an emphatic,
closely reasoned argument for abandoning New York at once. If
illness had denied him the chance to play a part at Brooklyn, he had
by no means let his mind drift from the fate of the army, or all that
was at stake. While others, like Reed, were of the same mind,
Greene alone committed his views to paper.
 
I think we have no object on this side of King’s Bridge.
Our troops are now so scattered that one part may be cut
off before the others can come to their support. In this
situation suppose the enemy should run up the North River
several ships of force and a number of transpo[rts] at the
same time, and effect a landing between the town and
middle division of the army. Another party from Long Island
should land right opposite. These two parties form a line
across the Island and entrench themselves. The two flanks

Page 253
Page 253
of this line could be easily supported by the shipping. The
center, fortified with the redoubts, would render it very
difficult, if not impossible, to cut our way through…. Should
this event take place, and by the by I don’t think it very
improbable, your Excellency will be reduced to that situation
which every prudent general would wish to avoid, that is of
being obligated to fight the enemy to a disadvantage or
submit.
 
It had been agreed, Greene continued, that without the
possession of Long Island, New York could not be held. The army,
dispersed as it was from one end of York Island to the other, could
not possibly stop an attack, and another such defeat as at Brooklyn
could be ruinous. “ ’Tis our business to study to avoid any
considerable misfortune.” Besides, two-thirds of the city belonged to
Tories. There was no sound reason to run any great risk in its
defense.
 
“I give it as my opinion that a general and speedy retreat is
absolutely necessary and that the honor and interest of America
require it.”
 
Further, he would burn the city. Once taken by the British, it could
never be recovered without a naval force superior to theirs. Left
standing, it would guarantee them abundant housing, wharves, and
a market for their every need. Greene could not conceive of a single
benefit to the American cause that could come from preserving New
York, and he urged Washington to summon a war council.
 
By the time the council convened, on September 7, at
Washington’s headquarters at the Mortier house north of town, the
letter from John Hancock had arrived saying Congress wanted no
damage done to New York.
 
It was agreed by the council that if the British were to bring up
their fleet and open fire, the city was untenable. Greene, Reed, Israel

Page 254
Page 254
Putnam, and several others called for a total and immediate
withdrawal from all of York Island. This, they argued, would deprive
the enemy of the advantage of their sea power, “put nothing to the
hazard,” and keep the army together.
 
But they were overruled by the majority, as Washington promptly
reported to Congress. What Washington said at the meeting is not
known, as no record survived, though it appears he thought the
directive from Congress was an egregious mistake and that
Nathanael Greene had the right idea. In a letter to Lund Washington
he would later write, “Had I been left to the dictates of my own
judgment, New York should have been laid in ashes.”
 
To Congress on September 8, Washington expressed his fear of
being outflanked again by the enemy. “On every side there is a
choice of difficulties,” he wrote. And with every decision went the
possibility that his army would not fight. It was a fear that never left
him. Young, inexperienced soldiers who were so greatly
outnumbered ought never be drawn into an open conflict, he wrote.
 
“We should on all occasions avoid a general action or put
anything to the risk unless compelled by a necessity.”
 
Yet he seemed unable to make up his mind. “On the other hand,
to abandon a city which has been by some deemed defensible and
on whose works much labor has been bestowed, has a tendency to
dispirit the troops and enfeeble our cause.” Strong posts at Fort
Washington and on the opposite side of the Hudson would secure
the Hudson corridor. A retreating army was always “encircled with
difficulties,” and “declining an engagement subjects a general to
reproach.”
 
But then he held out the possibility that some “brilliant stroke”
might save the cause, though who knew what that might be.

Page 255
Page 255
It did not help that the men were badly fed and unpaid—many
had seen no pay for two months—while across the East River the
British were well supplied with fresh provisions from the farms of
Long Island, “a pleasing circumstance,” as Ambrose Serle noted,
“both for the health and spirit of the troops.” The Hessians especially
claimed they had never fared so well.
*** 
 
AT PHILADELPHIA, after days of debate, Congress decided to
send a delegation of three—Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, and
Edward Rutledge—to meet with Lord Howe. The three men departed
on September 9.
 
On September 10, advancing British forces crossed from Long
Island to occupy Montresor’s Island at the mouth of the Harlem
River.
 
Nathanael Greene pressed Washington to reconvene the war
council. The situation was “so critical and dangerous” that a decision
must be made, Washington read in a joint statement signed by
Greene and six other general officers, this written September 11, the
day the three-man congressional delegation crossed from New
Jersey to Staten Island to confer with Lord Howe.
 
The Staten Island meeting lasted several hours, during which
Lord Howe did most of the talking. “It is desirable to put a stop to
these ruinous extremities, as well for the sake of our country as
yours,” said the resplendently uniformed admiral. Was there no way
of “treading back this step of independency?” There was not, he was
told, and the meeting came to nothing, as expected.
 
But it had at least brought a pause to enemy movements. The
British had suspended operations during what could have been a
golden opportunity to attack, as one perfect, late-summer day
followed another.

Page 256
Page 256
Washington’s war council met again on September 12 and this
time resolved to abandon the city. The main part of the army was to
move north to King’s Bridge as rapidly as possible, while some 4,000
troops under General Putnam remained to hold off an attack. The
sick were to be moved first. Cannon and tons of supplies and
ammunition had to be hauled from the city, a mammoth undertaking.
Every available horse and wagon was pressed into service.
 
On the afternoon of Friday the 13th, the British were on the move
again. Clearly some “grand military exertion” was under way, in
Joseph Reed’s words. The warships Roebuck and Phoenix, and the
frigates Orpheus and Carysfort —four ships mounting 148 cannon—
proceeded up the East River with six troop transports, to anchor in
Bushwick Creek. Fired on “briskly” by American batteries, the ships
received no serious damage, nor bothered even to return the fire.
 
On Saturday the 14th, Washington received another directive
from John Hancock. After further consideration, Congress had now
decided to leave the timing of an evacuation of New York entirely to
the commander-in-chief. He and the army were to remain not “a
moment longer” than he thought necessary.
 
Washington replied at once:
 
We are now taking every method in our power to
remove the stores, etc…. they are so great and so
numerous that I fear we shall not effect the whole before we
meet with some interruption…. Our sick are extremely
numerous and we find their removal attended with the
greatest difficulty.
 
Yet by late afternoon the larger part of the army had moved north
to King’s Bridge and Harlem Heights. Washington and his staff would
depart from the Mortier house that night and head north.

Page 257
Page 257
*** 
 
SURVEYING THE SHORE of Kips Bay with his telescope, from
the deck of the Roebuck, General Henry Clinton could see
entrenchments “lined with men whose countenance appeared
respectable and firm,” as he later wrote. The invasion of New York
was about to begin, and Clinton was again to lead the attack.
 
Kips Bay was not his choice. He had adamantly opposed the
plan, insisting that the Harlem River and King’s Bridge were the key
to victory. If York Island was a bottle, then Harlem was the neck.
Close it off, Clinton argued, and Washington and his rebel army
would be trapped, the war won.
 
Though overruled, Clinton continued to press his opinions almost
to the last hour. Even if the landing at Kips Bay were to succeed, he
said, it would still be necessary to drive the rebels from Harlem and
from King’s Bridge.
 
General Howe and his brother the admiral were not unmindful of
Clinton’s logic, but the captains of the ships in the East River feared
the infamously treacherous currents at Hell Gate, at the confluence
of the East River and the Harlem.
 
William Howe issued a final order to the troops saying an attack
on the enemy was “shortly intended,” and recommending “an entire
dependence upon their bayonets, with which they will ever command
that success which their bravery so well deserves.” There was no
ringing call for valor in the cause of country or the blessings of
liberty, as Washington had exhorted his troops at Brooklyn, only a
final reminder of the effectiveness of bayonets.
 
The invasion was set for Sunday the 15th. Had Howe and the
rest of his command known more, and waited one more day, the
American evacuation would have been complete, and they could
have walked into New York without a worry.

Page 258
Page 258
On the opposite shore, at Kips Bay, Private Joseph Martin was
among the Connecticut troops posted in shallow trenches to help
secure the retreat of the rest of the army. As night came on,
sentinels by the water’s edge reported regularly on the half hour,
“All’s well.” From one of the British ships, Private Martin heard a
voice answer, “We will alter your tune before tomorrow night.”
II
Contents - Prev / Next
 
ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL ROSTER, the Connecticut
brigade commanded by Colonel William Douglas numbered 1,500
men. But a third or more were sick, and only about half of those fit
for duty were manning the trenches by Kips Bay. They had been
awake all night and had had little or nothing to eat in twenty-four
hours. Many were the greenest of green American troops, farm boys
who had joined the ranks only the week before. Some who had no
muskets carried homemade pikes fashioned from scythe blades
fixed to the ends of poles.
 
Colonel Douglas, a New Haven shipmaster and merchant who
had fought gallantly at Brooklyn, thought New York untenable. Still,
in the expression of the time, he was a thorough soldier. “I think if we
will stand by each other, and not run like cowards, with God’s
blessing, [we] may keep them off,” he had written to his wife.
 
In the course of the night, five British frigates had maneuvered
into position off Kips Bay, and in the gray half-light before dawn
Douglas and his men could see their dark hulls anchored in a row,
broadside to the shore about two hundred yards out, so close that
they loomed much larger and more menacing than they had ever
looked before. Private Martin would remember being able to read the
name of the 44-gunPhoenix “as distinctly as though I had been
directly under her stern.”

Page 259
Page 259
The sun rose on a warm late-summer morning with clear skies
and a fine, southwest breeze. “We lay very quiet in our ditch…till the
sun was an hour or two high,” Martin wrote. “We heard a cannonade
at the city, but our attention was drawn toward our own guests.”
 
The distant roar was an exchange of fire on the other side of York
Island, as more of the British fleet, taking advantage of the ideal
winds and a running tide, moved into the Hudson, making it appear
that the attack was to come there.
 
The five ships off Kips Bay lay “entirely quiet” as the day grew
oppressively hot. Then four long columns of enemy flatboats could
be seen emerging from Newtown Cove across the river, brimming
with redcoated troops. “When they came to the edge of the tide,”
wrote Martin, “they formed their boats in line…until they appeared
like a large field of clover in full bloom.”
 
At about ten o’clock, a first wave of more than eighty flatboats
pushed off into the river. On board were 4,000 British and Hessian
soldiers, crowded shoulder-to-shoulder. Lord Rawdon, who was with
General Clinton in the lead boat, later wrote that the Hessians,
unaccustomed to “this water business” and fearful of being fired on
when packed so closely, began singing hymns, while the redcoats
responded in their own fashion, “by damning themselves and the
enemy indiscriminately with wonderful fervency.”
 
The crossing went slowly, almost noiselessly, until all at once, the
ships standing broadside to Kips Bay went into action, and the quiet
of the nearly three weeks since the Battle of Brooklyn came to a
thunderous end.
 
Just three days earlier, at Staten Island, Admiral Lord Howe had
spoken solicitously of putting “a stop to these ruinous extremities,” if
only the Americans would give up “independency.” Now, at about
eleven o’clock, he lay aside the olive branch in a manner that none

Page 260
Page 260
of the three members of Congress, or anyone, could have imagined,
or that any of those present at Kips Bay would ever forget.
 
The fury let loose was impossible to conceive, wrote a British
midshipman. “So terrible and so incessant a roar of guns few even in
the army and navy had ever heard before,” recorded Ambrose Serle.
 
It continued without stop for a full hour, a total of nearly eighty
guns pounding point-blank at the shore and shrouding the river with
acrid smoke. Joseph Martin, who had made a “frog’s leap” into a
ditch, thought he might die of the sound alone.
 
The barrage pulverized the meager breastworks, buried men
under sod and sand, and kicked up such dust and smoke that there
was no possibility of firing back at the enemy.
 
When the guns at last ceased, the first wave of flatboats emerged
from the drifting smoke into the sunlight and made for shore. By then
the Americans had fled as fast as their legs would carry them.
 
Colonel Douglas had told his men to save themselves and run,
but the order was hardly necessary. The fire from the enemy ships,
he wrote, was as “hot” as ever could be imagined, “but they mostly
overshot us. The brigade was in such a scattered [position] that I
could not collect them and I found the whole army on a retreat.”
 
From the lead landing craft, Lord Rawdon saw the rebels break
instantly, “happy to escape” to the nearest woods. “We pressed to
shore,” he wrote, “landed, and formed without losing a single man.”
 
Not all the Americans got away. As another British officer would
write, “I saw a Hessian sever a rebel’s head from his body and clap it
on a pole in the entrenchments.”
 
Clinton and his advance corps pressed inland unopposed for a
quarter of a mile, to secure high ground known as Inclenberg. There

Page 261
Page 261
they halted and waited.
 
*** 
 
FROM HIS NEW COMMAND POST on the crest of Harlem
Heights, four miles to the north, Washington had heard the roar of
cannon at Kips Bay and seen smoke rising in the distance. In an
instant he was on his horse and racing south at a gallop, down the
post road. Reining up at a cornfield about a mile inland from Kips
Bay, he found men “flying in every direction.” It was everything he
had feared and worse, his army in pell-mell panic, Americans turned
cowards before the enemy.
 
In a fury, he plunged his horse in among them, trying to stop
them. Cursing violently, he lost control of himself. By some accounts,
he brandished a cocked pistol. In other accounts, he drew his sword,
threatening to run men through. “Take the walls!” he shouted. “Take
the corn field!” When no one obeyed, he threw his hat on the ground,
exclaiming in disgust, “Are these the men with which I am to defend
America?”
 
When an advance party of Hessians appeared, and the fleeing
men refused to make a stand, Washington is said to have flogged
some of their officers with his riding crop. A few soldiers turned and
fired on the enemy, killing and wounding several. When a number of
other Americans surrendered, with their hands uplifted, the Hessians
shot or bayoneted them.
 
Two Continental brigades, a force of more than 2,000 under
Generals Samuel Parsons and John Fellows, arrived in support, but
at the sight of men fleeing in panic all around, they, too, turned and
ran, strewing the ground with muskets, cartridge boxes, canteens,
knapsacks, hats, and coats—this at the sight of fewer than a
hundred enemy soldiers.

Page 262
Page 262
“The demons of fear and disorder,” said Joseph Martin, “seemed
to take full possession of all and everything that day.” All, that is, but
Washington, who, in a rage, heedless of his own safety or the
chance of being captured, rode to within a hundred yards of the
enemy. Only with difficulty were two of his aides able to grab the
bridle of his horse and get him to leave the field.
 
More British troops were landing. By late afternoon, another
9,000 would be ashore at Kips Bay. When word came that the rebels
had abandoned New York, a British brigade headed rapidly south
and the city was theirs.
 
They were welcomed with open arms. “Nothing could equal the
expressions of joy shown by the inhabitants, upon the arrival of the
King’s officers among them,” wrote Ambrose Serle. “They even
carried some of them upon their shoulders about the streets, and
behaved in all respects, women as well as men, like overjoyed
Bedlamites.” At old Fort George on the Battery, a woman pulled
down the flag of the Continental Army and trampled it under foot
before raising the Union Jack.
 
Serle had watched the whole scene from Lord Howe’s flagship.
His contempt for the rebels had never been greater: “Thus this town
and its environs, which these blustering gentlemen had taken such
wonderful pains to fortify, were given up in two or three hours without
any defense, or the least appearance of a manly resistance.”
 
For the remnants of the American army who had gotten away, it
had been a close call. Henry Knox had managed to escape at the
last minute only by seizing a boat on the Hudson. Israel Putnam and
several thousand of his troops had set off on a forced march up the
post road, a route that would have taken them up the east side of the
island and straight into the invading British army had Putnam not
been convinced by a young aide, twenty-year-old Lieutenant Aaron
Burr, to head north by less traveled roads along the Hudson.

Page 263
Page 263
Leading his soldiers through the sweltering afternoon, rugged
“Old Put” was at his best, riding up and down the long line exhorting
them to stay together and keep moving, to get past the British before
they had the island sealed off from the East River to the Hudson. At
one time the two armies were passing each other less than a mile
apart, only a stretch of woods dividing them.
 
Another young officer who made the march, Captain David
Humphreys, would later write of General Putnam:
 
Having myself been a volunteer in his division and
acting adjutant to the last regiment that left the city, I had
frequent opportunities that day of beholding him, for the
purpose of issuing orders, and encouraging the troops,
flying on his horse covered with foam, wherever his
presence was necessary. Without his extraordinary
exertions…it is probable the entire corps would have been
cut to pieces.
 
Putnam and his exhausted men marched into the main camp at
Harlem after dark to rousing cheers. They had been given up for lost.
When Knox turned up later, he, too, was greeted with shouts of
welcome, even an embrace from the commander-in-chief.
 
*** 
 
WASHINGTON WOULD CALLthe conduct of those who had fled
at Kips Bay “shameful,” “scandalous,” “disgraceful and dastardly.”
Nathanael Greene wrote of the “miserable disorderly retreat” and
described Washington’s behavior as he tried to rally the terrified men
as close to suicidal. “Fellows’s and Parsons’s whole brigade[s] ran
away from about fifty men,” Greene reported to a friend, “and left his
Excellency on the ground within eighty yards of the enemy, so vexed
at the infamous conduct of the troops that he sought death rather
than life.”

Page 264
Page 264
Washington’s anger may also have been partly with himself, as
the attack at Kips Bay had been nearly as great a tactical surprise as
the enemy’s night march through the Jamaica Pass. He had been
made to look a fool by Howe still again.
 
The Connecticut militia, already in disgrace for deserting in such
appalling numbers, were tagged now with cowardice. The
Connecticut “runaways” were held to blame for the whole fiasco,
which only made worse the hard feelings between the troops of New
England and those of the other states that had plagued the army
almost from the beginning.
 
Not all judgments were so harsh, however. Other things had to be
weighed in the balance, wrote General Heath. “The wounds received
on Long Island were yet bleeding; and the officers, if not the men,
knew that the city was not to be defended.” A Connecticut chaplain,
Benjamin Trumbull, who only a short while before had delivered a
rousing sermon calling for courage and heroism in battle, wrote in his
diary:
 
The men were blamed for retreating and even flying…
but I imag[in]e the fault was principally in the general
officers…to give the men [a] rational prospect of defense
and a safe retreat, should they engage the enemy. And it is
probable many lives were saved…though it was not
honorable. It is admirable that so few men are lost.
 
In fact, many lives were saved, and even veteran troops would
have fled under such a murderous cannonade as at Kips Bay. For
the Connecticut men to have stayed would have been truly suicidal.
 
Henry Knox attributed the failure at both Brooklyn and Kips Bay
to inadequate leadership by ill-trained, inexperienced officers, and a
woefully overworked commander-in-chief. “The general is as worthy
a man as breathes, but he cannot do everything and be
everywhere,” Knox reflected in a letter to his brother.

Page 265
Page 265
We ought to have men of merit in the most extensive
and unlimited sense of the word. Instead of which, the bulk
of the officers of the army are a parcel of ignorant, stupid
men who might make tolerable soldiers but [are] bad
officers.
 
There should be military academies established to “teach the art
of war,” Knox wrote, “and every other encouragement possible to
draw persons into the army that may give luster to our arms.”
 
Again, as on Long Island, the enemy effort had gone like
clockwork. But why their commanders had delayed in crossing the
island, why they had not pushed straight on to the Hudson, remained
a puzzle. Had they advanced another mile or so, they could have cut
the island in two, just as Nathanael Greene had predicted, sealing off
any chance Putnam and his troops had to escape.
 
In explanation, a romantic story spread—a story that would
become legendary—that a Mrs. Robert Murray, a Quaker and an
ardent patriot, had delayed William Howe and his generals by
inviting them to afternoon tea at her country home at Inclenberg,
later known as Murray Hill. “Mrs. Murray treated them with cake and
wine, and they were induced to tarry two hours or more,” the story
went, and thus Mary Lindley Murray was credited with saving part of
the army, perhaps even the cause of liberty. She would be portrayed
as a veritable Circe charming the gallant Britons with her feminine
wiles. Possibly she did invite the officers to tea, and she may have
been extremely charming, but she was also a woman in her fifties
and the mother of twelve children.
 
More to the point, Clinton’s delay at Inclenberg was according to
plan. His orders had been to hold the line there until General Howe
and the rest of the invading force had landed later in the afternoon.

Page 266
Page 266
The British, quite understandably, considered the invasion an
immense success. Howe had wanted to seize and occupy New York
as quickly as possible and at the least cost in bloodshed, and all that
had been accomplished. New York, the key to British strategy, was at
last in British hands. Howe and his generals were entirely satisfied
with the day’s work, and by nightfall their troops had crossed the
middle of the island to the Hudson and pressed north to within
striking distance of the rebel lines by the Harlem River.
 
But then, the very next day, September 16, to the astonishment
of everyone, it would be the Americans’ turn to claim success.
 
*** 
 
WASHINGTON, AS USUAL, was up before dawn, drafting
correspondence at his spacious new headquarters, the Palladian-
style mansion of a departed Loyalist, Colonel Roger Morris, with
whom he had once served in the French and Indian War. The house,
about a mile south of Fort Washington, commanded the summit of
Harlem Heights—indeed, it stood at the highest elevation on all of
York Island. From the balcony of its columned portico, one could see
the Hudson on the right, and off to the left, three miles down the
Harlem River valley, the old Dutch village of Harlem and the waters
of Hell Gate. To the south, on clear days—and they were nearly all
clear, dry days that September—one could pick out the distant spires
of New York and further still, the hills of Staten Island, twenty miles
away.
 
According to Joseph Reed, who was with Washington, it was still
very early when word came that the enemy was advancing, and
Washington sent Reed cantering off to investigate.
 
Washington had been expecting an attack. “I have sent out some
reconnoitering parties to gain intelligence if possible of the
disposition of the enemy,” he had already reported in a letter to
Congress that morning. More than a hundred Connecticut Rangers,

Page 267
Page 267
some of the best soldiers in the army, had left on the mission before
dawn, led by one of the best field officers in the army, a strapping
Connecticut farmer and veteran of Bunker Hill, Colonel Thomas
Knowlton. (It was Knowlton at Bunker Hill who, with Colonel John
Stark, had famously held the rail fence in the face of the oncoming
British lines, and Knowlton who, during the siege of Boston, had led
the night attack on Charlestown that so upset the British officer’s
production of the Burgoyne farce The Blockade at Faneuil Hall.)
 
Knowlton and his Rangers were to probe for the enemy along the
wooded ridges to the south, which rose beyond a narrow, intervening
valley known as the Hollow Way. And it was there at daybreak, in the
woods of the highlands to the south, that Knowlton and his men ran
into the British and a “brisk” skirmish ensued.
 
Reed arrived just as the enemy attacked, with some four hundred
light infantry, thus outnumbering the Americans by nearly four to one.
 
I went down to our most advanced post [he wrote] and
while talking there with the officer of the guard, the enemy’s
advanced guard fired upon us at about fifty yards distance.
Our men behaved well, stood and returned the fire, till,
overpowered by numbers, they were obliged to retreat.
 
Reed raced off to get help from Washington, who had since
ridden to the southern reaches of Harlem Heights, where Nathanael
Greene’s brigades were drawn up, overlooking the Hollow Way. By
the time Reed arrived, Knowlton and his men could be seen
retreating swiftly down the slopes on the opposite side.
 
Then out of the far woods and down the hill came the British in
pursuit, sounding their bugles, as if on a fox hunt. “I never felt such a
sensation before,” Reed wrote. “It seemed to crown our disgrace.”
 
What the Virginia fox hunter watching the scene from his saddle
may have felt or thought can only be imagined, for he never said. But

Page 268
Page 268
his response was an immediate decision to make a fight, if only, as
he later explained to Patrick Henry, “to recover that military ardor
which is of the utmost moment to an army.”
 
Washington ordered a counterattack across the Hollow Way, and
sent Knowlton and his men, plus three companies of Virginians led
by Major Andrew Leitch, on the encircling move to the left, with Reed
as guide. They were to get behind the redcoats and entrap them in
the Hollow Way. Greene and Putnam led the main attack, and both
were soon in the thick of it.
 
The enemy had “rushed down the hill with all speed to a plain
spot of ground,” wrote Joseph Hodgkins, who was back in action
with Greene’s troops for the first time since Brooklyn. “Then our
brigade marched out of the woods. Then a very hot fire began on
both sides.”
 
But Knowlton’s encircling move ran into trouble when some of his
men opened fire too soon, attacking the enemy’s flank, instead of
getting behind and cutting off their retreat. The fighting grew fierce.
Within minutes Knowlton and Major Leitch both fell, mortally
wounded.
 
With the chance to encircle and capture the British gone,
Washington threw more of his forces into the main attack, and the
British, too, rushed in reinforcements. In little time the British had
committed 5,000 men.
 
The struggle went on for hours, the Americans, for once, holding
their own. Slowly the British began to give way. Then the British
turned and ran, and the Americans took after them. “[We] drove the
dogs near three miles,” wrote one of the Connecticut men.
 
Fearing the enemy might bring up still more strength, and that his
men might be running into a trap, Washington called off the attack,
which was not easily done. “The pursuit of a flying enemy was so

Page 269
Page 269
new a scene, that it was with difficulty our men could be brought to
retreat,” wrote Joseph Reed.
 
From all that Joseph Hodgkins had seen, and from what others
had told him, he reckoned they had killed no fewer than 500 of the
enemy and wounded that many or more. “They were seen to carry
off several wagon loads. Besides our people buried a good many
that they left.”
 
Probably the British and Hessian losses were 90 killed and about
300 wounded. The number of American casualties was far lower,
fewer than 100 wounded and 30 killed, but these included Major
Leitch and Colonel Knowlton, whose deaths were a heavy blow to
the army. To Reed, who had carried the wounded Knowlton from the
field, and to Washington, Thomas Knowlton was the “greatest loss.”
 
*** 
 
REPORTING TOCONGRESS on the Battle of Harlem Heights,
Washington referred to it only as “a pretty sharp skirmish” and made
no claims to a great victory. But to the troops it was a genuine victory
at long last, and an urgently needed lift to their self-respect. They
had seen the backs of redcoats on the fly. As Henry Knox wrote,
“They find that if they stick to these mighty men, they will run as fast
as other people.”
 
Nathanael Greene, who from the first weeks at Boston had never
doubted that the army would fight if properly led, wrote proudly to
William Ellery, a delegate to Congress from Rhode Island:
 
Our people beat the enemy off the ground…. Had all the
colonies good officers, there is no danger of the troops;
never was troops that would stand in the field longer than
the American soldiery. If the officers were as good as the
men, and had only a few months to form the troops to
discipline, America might bid defiance to the whole world.

Page 270
Page 270
British prisoners captured in the fight said they had never
expected the Americans to attack, and were “never more surprised.”
Henry Clinton, in accounting for what happened, blamed the
“impetuosity” of the light infantry for pursuing the rebels in the first
place. For contrary to what Washington thought, the British had had
no plans for or any intention of engaging the rebels that day, or
anytime soon.
 
*** 
 
FOR DAYS THE TWO ARMIES, close as they were, remained
perfectly quiet, “as quiet,” wrote Lieutenant Tilghman of
Washington’s staff, “as if they were a thousand miles apart.”
 
The position of the Americans on the rocky heights above the
Harlem River was as advantageous as any they had held since the
war began, and they labored on steadily to make it still more secure.
“If we cannot fight them on this ground, we can on none in America,”
concluded Joseph Reed. Nor was the point lost on the British
commander-in-chief who, with New York in hand, saw no reason to
press the attack just yet.
 
In his own good time William Howe was drawing up plans to
outmaneuver the rebels once again, while his brother, Lord Howe,
reflected on whether it might be the opportune moment for another
peace overture. Increasing numbers of rebel soldiers, all “much
dispirited,” were crossing the lines to defect, reinforcing the
commonly held opinion among the British commanders that the
rebellion had run its course.
 
Meanwhile, others of the British army were finding New York
delightful. There were “many fair houses” for quarters. Food was
more plentiful than ever. It was the height of the harvest season and
the supply of fresh produce from the farms of Long Island seemed

Page 271
Page 271
limitless. As a bonus, the rebels, in their hurry to leave, had left
behind more than 5,000 barrels of flour.
 
Off-duty British soldiers and officers flocked like tourists to inspect
the abandoned rebel fortifications, marveling at their size and
number and the work that had gone into them.
 
“The shore of the Island, from Hell Gate on the East River, quite
round by the town, up to Bloomingdale on the North River, an extent
of near fourteen miles, is fortified at almost every accessible part,
and there is hardly a height without a redoubt or battery on it,” wrote
Lieutenant Frederick Mackenzie in admiration. Ambrose Serle, after
a walking tour of the town, recorded his “astonishment” at the sight
of rebel breastworks and embrasures at the end of nearly every
street and avenue.
 
The infinite pains and labor which they must have
bestowed, one would have thought, from regret alone,
would have inclined them to make some kind of stand. But
their fears overpowered their resolution, and they
evacuated the object of all their toil in one short hour,
without making the least defense or anything like a
handsome retreat.
 
On September 19, against the judgment of most of the British
high command, including presumably his brother the general, Lord
Howe issued a direct appeal to the people of America, in the form of
a proclamation warning that the stubbornness of their
representatives in Congress was leading to their downfall and
misery. Americans ought to “judge for themselves,” he wrote,
“whether it be more consistent with their honor and happiness to
offer up their lives as a sacrifice to the unjust and precarious cause
in which they are engaged,” or “to return to their allegiance, accept
the blessings of peace,” and thus be “secured in the free enjoyment
of their liberty and properties.”

Page 272
Page 272
The proclamation seemed only to irritate everyone on both sides,
and was all but forgotten after the night of September 20–21, when
fire raged out of control in New York and a large part of the city
burned to the ground.
 
Fire was a constant fear in every town and city of the time, and
never more than when the weather was as hot and dry as it had
been that summer. Fire at night was the most terrifying of all.
 
The fire, it appears from several eyewitness accounts, began
shortly after midnight in a “low grogery” called the Fighting Cocks, at
Whitehall Slip, at the southern tip of New York.
 
Driven by a southwesterly wind, the flames turned quickly to
wildfire. Choking smoke and fiery-red, windborne flakes of burning
shingles filled the air, as the flames swept uptown, across Dock
Street, Bridge Street, Stone, Marketfield, and Beaver streets. Seen
from the American lines at Harlem, ten miles to the north, it looked
as though the very heavens were ablaze.
 
No warning bells rang, because Washington had ordered every
bell in the city carried away to be recast for cannon. British soldiers
and others rushed to help, but the heat was so intense, the fire so
out of control, that no one could get near it. There were too few
buckets and little water at hand. The few fire engines there were
proved useless.
 
Houses were torn down in advance of the flames, but then
nothing seemed to check the inferno. Had the wind not shifted to the
southeast at about two in the morning, the entire city might have
been consumed. As it was, the fire raged up the west side,
destroying nearly everything between Broadway and the Hudson,
including the infamous Holy Ground, to as far as the open field at
King’s College. When Trinity Church, at Broadway and Wall Street,
burst into flames, its shingled steeple became a vast “pyramid of
fire,” until it burned to its timbers and crashed to the ground.

Page 273
Page 273
“It is almost impossible to conceive a scene of more horror and
distress,” wrote Frederick Mackenzie, who was among those trying
to fight the flames.
 
The sick, the aged, women, and children, half naked,
were seen going they knew not where, and taking refuge in
houses which were at a distance from the fire, but from
whence they were in several instances driven a second and
even a third time…. The terror was increased by the horrid
noise of the burning and falling houses, the pulling down of
such wooden buildings as served to conduct the fire…the
rattling of above 100 wagons, sent in from the army, and
which were constantly employed in conveying to the
common such goods and effects as could be saved. The
confused voices of so many men, the shrieks and cries of
the women and children…
 
Concerned that the burning city could be the prelude to a night
attack by the rebels, the Howes held back from sending more
soldiers and seamen to fight the blaze until daybreak, and by ten
o’clock the fire had burned itself out.
 
Nearly five hundred houses were destroyed, or approximately a
quarter of the city, and in the shock and horror of the moment it
seemed certain the disaster was the villainous work of the enemy.
Rebel incendiaries had been caught in the act, it was widely
reported. One such man, caught with “fire brand” in hand, had been
knocked down by a British grenadier and “thrown into the flames” for
his reward. Another who was seen cutting off the handles of water
buckets was hanged from a signpost by British sailors, then hung up
by the heels like a slaughtered animal.
 
Witnesses reported having seen the fire break out in several
different places, not just at Whitehall Slip, and this was taken as
proof of arson. But Frederick Mackenzie, who was no less certain

Page 274
Page 274
than others that the town had been “designedly” set afire,
acknowledged in his diary, “There is no doubt…that the flames were
communicated to several houses by means of the burning flakes of
the shingles, which being light, were carried by the wind to some
distance and…kindled the fire anew.”
 
In a letter to Lord Germain, General Howe charged the deed to
unnamed “lurking” villains. “The Yankees [New York Loyalists] are
convinced that the New England men set fire to the town; they will
never forgive them,” wrote General James Grant. Governor William
Tryon went further, implying in a letter to Germain that Washington
himself had devised the plot and instructed the incendiaries.
 
More than a hundred suspects were rounded up, but no evidence
was found against them. None were brought to trial. All were
eventually released. It was never determined, then or later, that the
“Great Fire” was anything other than accidental.
 
Washington, in his report to Congress, called it an accident.
Writing privately, however, he allowed to Lund Washington that
“Providence, or some good honest fellow, has done more for us than
we were disposed to do for ourselves.” Beyond that he said no more.
 
Nor was Washington to say anything about Captain Nathan Hale,
who was “apprehended” by the British the day after the fire and, it
appears, as part of the roundup of suspected incendiaries.
 
By several accounts, Hale’s capture took place in New York. A
report in the New York Gazette, a Tory paper, said an unnamed
“New England man who had a captain’s commission” was seized in
the city with “dreadful implements of ruin [firebrands]” and, when
searched, “the sum of 500 [pounds] was found upon him.” This could
refer to Hale, although Frederick Mackenzie noted that “a person
named Nathan Hales” was apprehended on Long Island on the night
of September 21.

Page 275
Page 275
Whatever the circumstances of his capture, Hale admitted to
being a spy, and General Howe ordered him hanged without trial.
 
Hale was twenty-one years old, a handsome, athletic graduate of
Yale, a schoolmaster and wholehearted patriot. Raised on a
Connecticut farm, he was one of six brothers who served in the war.
He had signed up more than a year before, taken part in the Siege of
Boston, and lately joined Colonel Knowlton’s Rangers. Yet thus far
he felt he had rendered no real service to the country, and when
Knowlton, on orders from Washington, called for a volunteer to cross
the lines and bring back desperately needed intelligence, he had
bravely offered to go.
 
A fellow Connecticut officer, Captain William Hull, who had known
Hale in college, tried to talk him out of it, warning that he was by
nature “too frank and open for deceit and disguise,” and that no one
respected the character of a spy. Hale had said only that he would
“reflect, and do nothing but what duty demands.” The next thing Hull
knew, his friend had disappeared.
 
The mission was doomed from the start, ill-planned and
pathetically amateurish, and Hale was a poor choice. He knew
nothing of spying. The scars from a powder burn on his face made
him readily identifiable, and a Loyalist cousin who knew him well was
serving as General Howe’s deputy commissary of prisoners.
 
Hale went under the guise of a Dutch schoolmaster in search of
work. Apparently it was from naïvely confiding the truth of his
mission to the wrong people that led to his capture.
 
He was hanged on the morning of September 21, in an artillery
park near the Beekman house, a country estate not far from the East
River that served as Howe’s headquarters.
 
It was Captain John Montresor, who, only hours afterward, under
a white flag, brought word of Hale’s fate to the Americans and

Page 276
Page 276
described what had happened to Hale to his friend Captain Hull. And
it was Hull, later, who reported Montresor’s account of Hale’s last
words as he was about to be executed: “I only regret that I have but
one life to lose for my country,” which was a variation on another
then-famous line from the playCato. (One imagines that in delivering
the line to his British executioners, Hale, knowing that it was as
familiar to them as to him, put the emphasis on the second-to-last
word: “I only regret that I have but one life to lose formy country.”)
 
On September 26, a British officer wrote in a letter,
 
We hung up a rebel spy the other day, and some
soldiers got out of a rebel gentleman’s garden a painted
soldier on a board, and hung it along with the rebel, and
wrote upon it, General Washington, and I saw it yesterday
beyond headquarters, by the roadside.
 
Hale’s place in the pantheon of American heroes, as the martyr
spy of the Revolution, was not to come until years later. For now very
little was known or said of his story. Washington, angry or saddened
as he may have been, is not known to have mentioned the subject.
 
 
AMERICAN SOLDIERS WERE DESERTING as if leaving a
sinking ship, thirty or forty at a time, many defecting to the enemy.
Disobedience and theft were epidemic. It was far from an army of
heroes only. “A spirit of desertion, cowardice, plunder, and shrinking
from duty when attended with fatigue or danger, prevailed but too
generally,” wrote Joseph Reed, who had become so demoralized
that even he was on the verge of quitting.
 
An experience on the battlefield on September 16 had had a
searing effect. In the heat of the fight, Reed had seen a soldier
running from the enemy. Ordered to stop and go back, the soldier, a
Connecticut private named Ebenezer Leffingwell, had raised his
musket, taken aim from a distance of only a few yards, and pulled

Page 277
Page 277
the trigger. But the lock only snapped. When Reed grabbed the gun
of another soldier and pulled the trigger, it too snapped. Reed drew
his sword and, striking twice, wounded Leffingwell on the head,
severed a thumb, and forced him to surrender. “I should have shot
him, could I have got my gun off,” Reed said at Leffingwell’s court-
martial on September 19.
 
Leffingwell, who confessed he had been running away, was
found guilty of cowardice and of “presenting his firelock at his
superior officer.” He was sentenced to be executed before the
assembled troops the following day. But at Reed’s urging,
Washington pardoned Leffingwell at the last moment, after
Leffingwell had kneeled to be shot. The next such offender would
“suffer death without mercy,” warned Washington.
 
“To attempt to introduce discipline and subordination into a new
army must always be a work of much difficulty,” Reed wrote to his
wife, “but where the principles of democracy so universally prevail,
where so great an equality and so thorough a leveling spirit
predominates, either no discipline can be established, or he who
attempts it must become odious and detestable, a position which no
one will choose.”
 
Washington was no less a commanding presence than ever, and
except for his raging outburst at Kips Bay, he seemed imperturbable,
entirely in control. In truth, he was as discouraged as he had ever
been in his life, and miserably unhappy. It was all he could do to
keep up appearances.
 
“Unless some speedy, and effectual measures are adopted by
Congress, our cause will be lost,” he told John Hancock in a long,
foreboding letter dated September 25.
 
Like Greene, like Knox and Reed, Washington knew the problem
with the army was not so much the men in the ranks as those who
led them. The war was to be no “work of a day,” he warned, and

Page 278
Page 278
must be carried on “systematically.” Good officers were mandatory,
and the only means to obtain good officers was to establish the army
on a permanent footing. There must be an end to short-term
enlistments. Officers must be better paid, better trained. Soldiers
must be offered a good bounty, adequate clothing and blankets, plus
the promise of free land.
 
Inflamed by passions, stirred by patriotism, men will “fly hastily
and cheerfully to arms,” Washington continued, but to expect “the
bulk of an army” to serve on selflessly, come what may, once the first
emotions subsided, would be “to look for what never did, and, I fear,
never will, happen.” Even among officers, those who acted with true
“disinterestedness” were “no more than a drop in the ocean,” wrote
this most disinterested and selfless of officers.
 
To place any dependence on militia is, assuredly, resting
upon a broken staff. Men just dragged from the tender
scenes of domestic life—unaccustomed to the din of arms
—totally unacquainted with every kind of military skill, which
being followed by a want of confidence in themselves when
opposed to troops regularly trained, disciplined, and
appointed, superior in knowledge, and superior in arms,
makes them timid and ready to fly from their own shadows.
 
He wrote of the “lust after plunder” among the men, of regimental
surgeons taking bribes to certify sickness or infirmities that would
qualify for discharges. He understood the fear there was in Congress
and among the people of a standing army, but he thought the evils
imagined were remote. On the other hand, were there to be no
standing army, the cause of independence faced ruin.
 
He wanted rules and regulations adopted, punishments made
more severe. As it was, for the most “atrocious offenses,” the
maximum was thirty-nine lashes, and these, he had found, were
seldom layed on as they should be, but more as “sport.” It was

Page 279
Page 279
punishment of a kind that, for a bottle of rum, many “hardened
fellows” were quite willing to undergo.
 
But as Washington had no way of knowing, Congress had
already acted on most of what he wanted, due largely to the efforts
of John Adams as head of the Board of War and in floor debate.
Every soldier who enlisted for the “duration” of the war was to
receive $20 and one hundred acres of land. New Articles of War,
drawn up by Adams and based largely on the British Articles of War,
went far to ensure justice for the individual soldier, provided stiffer
punishments for major offenses (up to one hundred lashes), and
increased the number of crimes for which the penalty was death.
Adams also proposed for the first time the creation of a military
academy, as Knox had urged, but nothing came of the motion.
 
Writing to Lund Washington on September 30, Washington was
even more candid about his miseries. “Such is my situation that if I
were to wish the bitterest curse to an enemy on this side of the
grave, I should put him in my stead with my feelings.” He was
“wearied to death” with problems. One regiment had fewer than fifty
men left, another, all of fourteen fit for duty. “In confidence I tell you
that I never was in such an unhappy, divided state since I was born.”
And the enemy, all the while, was “within stone’s throw.”
 
Then, as he had before, and as though such a giant shift of mind
was perfectly natural, he turned to the subject of Mount Vernon. He
was concerned about the fireplaces:
 
That in the parlor must, I should think, stand as it does;
not so much on account of the wainscotting, which I think
must be altered (on account of the door leading into the
new building), as on account of the chimney piece and the
manner of its fronting into the room. The chimney in the
room above ought, if it could be so contrived, to be an angle
chimney as the others are: but I would not have this
attempted at the expense of pulling down the partition. The

Page 280
Page 280
chimney in the new room should be exactly in the middle of
it—the doors and everything else to be exactly answerable
and uniform. In short, I would have the whole executed in a
masterly manner.
 
If all could not be as he wished with the army, if all could not be
“exactly answerable and uniform” or “executed in a masterly
manner,” concerning the war he was expected to wage and win, then
he would at least have it so at his distant, beloved home.
 
*** 
 
THE CRYSTAL DAYSof late September and early October in
New York followed one after another, with lucent skies and stands of
maple and sumac just beginning to turn color. The East River had
become a spectacle of British ships of every kind lining nearly its
entire length. The Hudson, in the sharp light of the season, sparkled
like an inland sea. In all, it could not have been a more beautiful
setting for the strange, extended intermission in a war that many
hoped might be put to rest for the winter, not to resume until spring,
and then, preferably, not too early.
 
On the morning of October 9, any such hopes ended. Three of
the British warships, Phoenix, Roebuck, and Tartar, weighed anchor
and with the advantage of a flood tide and a brisk southwesterly
wind, proceeded up the Hudson to force passage beyond Forts
Washington and Constitution, where, at enormous effort, the
Americans had tried to block the river from shore to shore with
sunken hulks and a submerged chain of spike-studded logs.
 
The guns of the forts high above the river opened fire. The ships
answered with a pounding barrage, and by holding close to the
eastern shore, where the river was deepest, they sailed straight, if
slowly, through to safe anchorage upriver at the broad Tappan Zee,
off Tarrytown.

Page 281
Page 281
Washington had observed the whole sorry scene. “To our
surprise and mortification, they ran through without the least
difficulty, and without receiving any apparent damage from our forts,
though they kept up a heavy fire from both sides,” he wrote. Again,
no end of time and labor devoted to defense had come to nothing.
 
In fact, the British had suffered nine seamen killed and
considerable damage to their ships, while showing once more in
spectacular fashion that the Hudson was undeniably theirs to employ
as they wished.
 
The day could have led to a decisive change in American
strategy. If the purpose of the forts was to deny the British navy use
of the river, then all the effort and risk of holding the forts should
have been reconsidered at once. Clearly the forts had been shown
to be useless.
 
Yet Washington raised no questions then, and Nathanael Greene
declared confidently, at day’s end, that the army was so strongly
positioned in the forts that there was “little more to fear this
campaign.” Instead of a lesson learned, the day marked the onset of
one of the greatest American blunders of the war, and what was to
be a painful humiliation for Washington and Greene.
 
*** 
 
THE BRITISH PLAN,once again, was to outflank the rebels, and
again by water. Early on October 12, in an unexpected morning fog,
a massive armada got under way on the East River.
 
With Admiral Lord Howe in command, 150 ships set sail
upstream, through the dangerous Hell Gate channel “in very thick
fog”—a mariner’s nightmare—and into Long Island Sound, and all
without mishap. It was a stunning feat of seamanship. By noon an
advance force of 4,000 troops led by Henry Clinton had landed at
Throg’s Neck (also known as Frog’s Neck), a marshy point of land on

Page 282
Page 282
the shoreline of Westchester County, due east of the American lines
at Harlem Heights and King’s Bridge.
 
Throg’s Neck had been Lord Howe’s choice and proved to be a
poor one for the army. What appeared to be a peninsula on the map
was more an island connected to the mainland only at low tide.
When the British tried to advance over a causeway, a small
detachment of American riflemen, crouched behind log piles, held
them in check, and when more American support moved in, after
more British troops had landed, General Howe decided to reembark
once sufficient supplies arrived and still more reinforcements were at
hand, which consumed another four days. (“Tweedledum business,”
an exasperated Henry Clinton called it.) But the reinforcements
Howe expected were worth the wait—7,000 newly arrived Hessians
under the command of the extremely able General Wilhelm von
Knyphausen. And when Howe moved, he moved with astonishing
speed, landing this time a short way up the sound, at Pell’s Point, a
part of the mainland.
 
At the first report of the Throg’s Neck landing, Washington knew
the Harlem Heights bastion had become a trap. The British were up
to “their former scheme of getting to our rear,” he wrote. They had
only to strike inland toward King’s Bridge. The army must withdraw
as soon as possible. He would concentrate his forces at safer
ground eighteen miles to the north at White Plains, the seat of
Westchester County.
 
Through prisoner exchanges, Lord Stirling and General Sullivan
had rejoined the army, in what seemed the nick of time. Both were
warmly welcomed by Washington and assigned commands.
 
On October 14, the gaunt, odd-looking figure of General Charles
Lee reappeared, dogs and all, and immediately resumed his place
as second-in-command. Lee was the subject of much talk, raising
spirits in the ranks and in Congress. Always popular in Congress, he
had become even more so since the defeat of Clinton’s expedition to

Page 283
Page 283
South Carolina, where Lee had had overall command of the
American forces. While Washington’s ability had become subject to
question, as one failure followed another, Lee’s reputation had never
been higher. Some in Congress saw him as a potential savior.
 
For his part, Lee recklessly told General Gates that he thought
Washington was only compounding his troubles by tolerating such
“absurd interference” by the “cattle” in Congress in his conduct of the
war, and that Washington was remiss for not “menacing ’em” with
threats of resignation. (Were Washington to resign, of course, it
would be Lee who succeeded him.)
 
Washington well knew the quirks and vanity of his old military
friend and was glad to have him back. As a gesture of appreciation,
he gave Fort Constitution a new name, Fort Lee.
 
At a council of war on October 16, it was decided that Fort
Washington and its garrison should be, in the words of the brief
minutes, “retained as long as possible.” The passage of ships on the
Hudson was no longer the issue—the obstructions in the North River
had proved insufficient—still, “communication” across the river to
New Jersey had to be maintained.
 
Besides Washington and Lee, the general officers present
included Heath, Sullivan, Stirling, and Mifflin. Colonel Knox was also
present, but General Greene was not. According to the minutes,
there was only one dissenting voice, and it was General George
Clinton, not Lee, as he later implied.
 
The week before, Congress had resolved that, if “practicable,”
every effort be made to “obstruct effectually” navigation on the
Hudson at Fort Washington, but whether this was known in advance
of the council of war, or had any bearing on the decision, is not clear.
 
All of York Island was finally to be evacuated. The entire
American army would march off, except for 1,000 men left to hold

Page 284
Page 284
Fort Washington.
 
Officially it was to be called “an alteration of our position,” not a
retreat. The commander’s orders for October 17 read, in part, as
follows:
 
As the movements of the enemy make an alteration of
our position necessary…tents are to be struck and carefully
rolled, the men to take the tent poles in their hands, two
men out of a company, with a careful subaltern, to go with
the baggage and not leave it on any pretense. No packs
(unless of sick men), chairs, tables, benches, or heavy
lumber [are] to be put on the wagons. No person, unless
unable to walk, is to presume to get upon them. The
wagons [are] to move forward before the regiments…Every
regiment under marching orders, to see they have their
flints and ammunition in good order and complete.
 
The exodus was soon under way, the army crossing the narrow
bridge at King’s Bridge and heading north along the west bank of the
little Bronx River. The sick were the greatest burden. With teams and
wagons in short supply, the trek was slow and difficult, the men
themselves, in many cases, hauling the baggage wagons and
cannon.
 
Private Joseph Martin would remember lugging a cast-iron kettle
the size of a milk pail until his arms were nearly dislocated. During a
rest, he put it down, and, as he wrote, “one of the others gave it a
shove with his foot, and it rolled down against a fence, and that was
the last I ever saw of it. When we got through the night’s march, we
found our mess was not the only one that was rid of their iron
bondage.”
 
***

Page 285
Page 285
AS THE FIRST of Washington’s army struggled toward White
Plains, the British made their swift landing at Pell’s Point. Again an
advance force of 4,000 British and Hessian troops went ashore in
the early morning and, this time, were unopposed. They moved
directly inland a mile or more and might have kept going had it not
been for the intrepid John Glover and his men. The date was
October 18.
 
From a hilltop before dawn, Glover had seen through a telescope
what looked like upwards of two hundred ships. “Oh! The anxiety of
mind I was in then for the fate of the day…. I would have given a
thousand worlds to have had General Lee, or some experienced
officer present to direct, or at least to approve what I had done,”
Glover later wrote.
 
Acting on his own, he rushed forward with some 750 men who
fought tenaciously from behind stone walls, inflicting heavy
casualties and stalling the enemy advance for a full day before
forced to fall back.
 
Colonel Loammi Baldwin, the Massachusetts apple grower who,
with his small regiment, joined in the fight, later claimed the men
stayed as calm as if shooting ducks. He thought the enemy dead
numbered at least 200, which was undoubtedly an exaggeration. But
even if he was wrong by half, the British lost more men killed at
Pell’s Point than in the Battle of Brooklyn. By Glover’s calculations,
American casualties numbered 8 dead, 13 wounded.
 
Such ferocity as the Americans had shown appears to have
stunned Howe, leading him to conclude that, with stone walls lining
every road and adjacent field, more deadly fire could be waiting at
any turn. Had the British kept moving inland with speed, they might
have caught Washington’s retreating army head-on.
 
As it was, the British advance—along the shore as far as
Mamaroneck, then inland toward White Plains—was slow and

Page 286
Page 286
extremely cautious, seldom more than a few miles a day and against
little or no resistance.
 
Probably Howe saw no more need to hurry now than he had
before, and in fact, he did not expect to cut the rebel retreat. Rather,
in eighteenth-century military fashion, he hoped to maneuver
Washington onto the open field, and then, with his superior,
professional force, destroy the Yankee “rabel” in one grand, decisive
victory. Even after reaching White Plains, Howe took another few
days to be sure all was ready.
 
*** 
 
AT LAST, on October 28, ten days after landing at Pell’s Point,
William Howe sent 13,000 redcoats and Hessians up the main road
to White Plains. It was early morning and yet another sparkling fall
day. Washington, determined to avoid any test of strength on an
open field, was well dug in on high ground in back of the village, his
lines reaching more than a mile in length. For a brief time, it looked
as though Howe intended to attack head-on, as the Americans
hoped he would. British field guns opened fire, and Howe’s army
marched in perfect order in two columns straight for where
Washington commanded at the center. “The sun shone bright, their
arms glittered, and perhaps troops never were shown to more
advantage than these now appeared,” wrote General Heath of the
oncoming foe.
 
Suddenly, one column wheeled sharply left in the direction of a
higher hill on the American right, on the other side of the Bronx
River. Chatterton’s Hill was thickly wooded on its slopes but had
open fields above, and it dominated the American lines. “Yonder is
the ground we ought to occupy,” Charles Lee had reportedly told
Washington, but only at the last hour had troops been rushed to
defend Chatterton’s Hill and these were mainly militia.

Page 287
Page 287
The British artillery moved to closer range. Cannon roared on
both sides. “The air and hills smoked and echoed terribly,” wrote a
Pennsylvania soldier. “The fences and walls were knocked down and
torn to pieces, and men’s legs, arms, and bodies mingled with
cannon and grapeshot all round us.”
 
Washington ordered more men to the top of Chatterton’s Hill. The
British and Hessians forded the river, and the Hessians, part of the
newly arrived 7,000 led by Colonel Johann Rall, launched the uphill
charge. The militia broke and ran, and while the reinforcements,
including Colonel Haslet’s Delaware troops and Smallwood’s
Marylanders, fought bravely, they had to give way at the last.
 
The Battle of White Plains was the battle of Chatterton’s Hill and
the British and the Hessians carried the day. But it was at a cost of
more than 250 casualties, twice what the Americans suffered. Nor
was it a victory that achieved anything.
 
The day after, October 29, Howe decided to pause again, to wait
for still more reinforcements. The day after that, October 30, it
poured rain. On the morning of November 1, Howe found that
overnight Washington and his army had pulled back half a mile to a
stronger position on high ground across the Bronx River.
 
For two more days the two armies waited and watched. “The
enemy are determined on something decisive,” Henry Knox wrote to
his brother, “and we are determined to risk a general battle on the
most advantageous terms.”
 
When, on the night of November 3, American sentinels reported
the rumbling of enemy carriages in the dark, it was assumed another
attack was imminent. There was more stirring among the British
ranks the next day, and the Americans braced themselves. But on
the morning of November 5, to the complete surprise of the
Americans, the whole of the British army was in motion, heading off

Page 288
Page 288
in another direction, southwest toward the Hudson and King’s
Bridge.
 
III
Contents - Prev / Next
 
“OPINIONS HERE ARE VARIOUS,” Joseph Reed confided to his
wife, following a council of war during which he had kept the
minutes.
 
Some of the generals thought the British were headed for Fort
Washington, or were bound for the Hudson to board ships and
proceed upriver to attack from the rear. “Others, and a great majority,
think that, finding this army too strongly posted, they have changed
their whole plan…intending to penetrate the Jerseys and so move on
to Philadelphia.”
 
Who had said what or the most in the course of the meeting,
Reed did not mention. In his own opinion, however, it was too late in
the season for any British movements of consequence, other than a
few “excursions” into New Jersey perhaps, to revive the “drooping”
spirits of the many Loyalists there.
 
Washington doubted that Howe would close the campaign
“without attempting something more,” as he wrote to John Hancock.
Almost certainly Howe was headed for New Jersey.
 
Nearing the close of the letter, Washington added a further worry:
“I expect the enemy will bend their force against Fort Washington
and invest it immediately,” he said, the term “invest” meaning to
surround and lay siege, not necessarily to attack all-out.
 
Like most of the army he led, Washington was still exhausted and
dispirited. To some who were closest at hand he seemed a little

Page 289
Page 289
bewildered and unsuitably indecisive. Reed in particular, as he would
later reveal, was having second thoughts about Washington’s
capacity for leadership.
 
Increasingly worried over Fort Washington, the commander
pondered whether to pull the troops out while there was yet time. In
a letter to Nathanael Greene from White Plains dated November 8,
Washington had reasoned, as he might well have earlier:
 
If we cannot prevent vessels passing up [the Hudson],
and the enemy are possessed of the surrounding country,
what valuable purpose can it answer to attempt to hold a
post from which the expected benefit cannot be had. I am
therefore inclined to think it will not be prudent to hazard the
men and stores.
 
Yet he left the decision to Greene. “But as you are on the spot, [I]
leave it to you to give such orders as to evacuating…as you judge
best.”
 
Central to all that had to be taken into consideration was the
Hudson River, which loomed as large in everyone’s calculations as it
had for nearly a year, from the time Washington first dispatched
Charles Lee south from Cambridge to take charge of fortifying New
York—the Hudson, key to the whole British strategy.
 
Would the British decide to take care of the unfinished business
of Fort Washington on this side of the river? Or would they cross
over and strike into New Jersey? Or might they do both? And what in
any case should be done?
 
Howe and his army were known to have reached Dobbs Ferry on
the Hudson, less than ten miles above King’s Bridge, and were now
moving south.

Page 290
Page 290
Once again, Washington decided to divide his army, and this time
four ways. Seven thousand troops, much the largest part of the
army, were to remain east of the Hudson under General Lee, to
check any British move on New England. General Heath and
another 3,000 were to guard the Hudson Highlands at Peekskill,
New York, thirty miles to the north. Washington, with what was left of
the army—only 2,000 men or so—would cross to the other side of
the river, where, it was expected, he would be joined by New Jersey
and Pennsylvania reinforcements. Nathanael Greene was to
maintain his same position on the river, with overall command of the
troops at Fort Washington and Fort Lee.
 
Washington and his 2,000 left White Plains on November 10. At
midmorning, November 12, at Peekskill, he crossed the Hudson and
headed directly south for New Jersey, reaching Fort Lee on
November 13—all told, a sixty-five-mile march in three days.
 
For the better part of two days he and Greene conferred. Greene,
who had yet to fight a battle, remained optimistic, convinced that Fort
Washington could be held, and especially as he had more than
doubled the number of troops at the fort, bringing the total force
there to more than 2,000.
 
It was a remarkable reversal of roles. Washington, who in
September had refused to abandon New York, seemed ready now to
do so. Greene, in September, had seen no reason to remain a day
longer on York Island, and had he had his way, the whole present
crisis would have been avoided. Yet it was Greene now who wanted
to make a stand on the last bit of the island still in American hands,
arguing that it would keep communications open across the river, tie
up British troops that might otherwise join in an attack on New
Jersey (and ultimately Philadelphia), and lead possibly to another
slaughter of the enemy as at Bunker Hill. Further, Greene reasoned,
one more retreat could be devastating to the army’s already
demoralized state.

Page 291
Page 291
Despite its formidable presence high over the river, its steep,
rock-bound approaches, Fort Washington was, in several ways, not
the impregnable bastion it seemed. An irregular pentagon in plan, it
covered about four acres, its walls made of piled-up earth. There
were no barracks for the troops, and there was no water supply,
other than what could be hauled up from below—hardly what was
needed in the event of a long siege with winter approaching.
 
Nonetheless, its commander, Colonel Robert Magaw, thought the
fort could hold out until the end of December, and Greene agreed.
 
In his letter to Greene from White Plains, Washington had said he
was “inclined to think” it prudent to abandon the fort, but left the
decision to Greene, who was “on the spot.” Now that he himself was
on the spot, Washington still could not decide what to do and so
again, in effect, he let the decision be Greene’s.
 
“His Excellency General Washington has been with me for
several days…but finally nothing concluded on,” Greene wrote to
Henry Knox.
 
“The movements and designs of the enemy are not yet
understood,” Washington reported to John Hancock.
 
*** 
TO THE BRITISH CAPTAIN Frederick Mackenzie it was all-but-
perfect campaigning weather. There had been a frost nearly every
night, but it disappeared once the sun was up. The only thing lacking
was a stiff breeze to accommodate the navy. “No wind for some days
past,” he recorded in his diary, “so that if it was intended to send any
number of ships up the North River, it could not have been effected.”
 
The entry, dated November 7, affirmed that General Howe had by
then established headquarters just six miles above King’s Bridge,
and that the next move would “probably be against Fort

Page 292
Page 292
Washington.” But then Captain Mackenzie never doubted that
“reduction” of the fort was “the first object,” and like others, he felt
more confident than ever of success, for a fund of timely and
accurate intelligence had unexpectedly fallen into British hands. If
Washington failed still to understand British “designs,” the British
now knew quite a lot about the American situation, or at least a great
deal more than they might have.
 
On November 2, when Howe’s army was still at White Plains, an
American staff officer named William Demont (whom Mackenzie
referred to as William Diamond), turned traitor, defecting to the
British from Fort Washington and bringing with him copies he had
made of plans of the fort and the placement of cannon, as well as
accounts of the mounting discontent and animosity between the
rebels from New England and those from the South.
 
Only days before a packet of letters written by Washington, Reed,
and others of Washington’s staff wound up in British hands, after
being left unguarded at an inn at Trenton by a careless post rider
bound for Philadelphia. In one letter Washington complained bitterly
of the lack of discipline in the army and wrote with scorn of the
“dreaming, sleepy-headed” officers he had to contend with. Another
letter, written by Lieutenant Colonel Robert Hanson Harrison of
Washington’s staff, provided the far more important revelation that
Washington was dividing his army.
 
The purloined letters and the plan of Fort Washington provided by
Demont’s treachery may not have greatly altered the course of
events to follow. But the British rightfully considered them a windfall,
as both Mackenzie’s diary and that kept by Ambrose Serle attest.
Washington’s decision to divide the army was taken as a clearest
possible sign of weakness. “It is easy to see whither all this tends,
and what will be the probable consequence of such a division,” wrote
Serle, who as Lord Howe’s secretary had been the first to see the
letters. If the rebels could not “find spirit to act under the
encouragement of their present numbers, there is little reason to

Page 293
Page 293
believe that their courage will increase upon a reduction of their
strength.” The letters, thought Mackenzie, were certain to be “of
much service to General Howe.”
 
The British by this time had doubtless picked up sufficient
information from deserters to know a considerable amount about the
state of things at Fort Washington, but having the plans and
Demont’s account were of importance all the same, if only as
confirmation.
 
Be that as it may, the famously cautious William Howe, who,
supposedly, would never risk a frontal attack on a heavily fortified
rebel position, because of the painful lesson learned at Bunker Hill,
was about to disprove that theory, and with the full agreement of his
commanders.
 
Frederick Mackenzie had total confidence in the attack, predicting
further, “from the general appearance of matters,” that as soon as
Fort Washington was taken, Howe would move on to New Jersey.
The fact that the rebel troops from New Jersey and Pennsylvania
that Washington counted on for help had never materialized was
also well known to the British, and this, thought Mackenzie, left little
“to prevent our arrival at Philadelphia.”
 
By November 12, the day Washington crossed the Hudson,
Howe’s army was within four miles of King’s Bridge. The plan was for
a four-part assault, with the Hessians playing the major role.
 
The plan began to unfold at midday, November 15, when Howe
sent Colonel James Paterson under a white flag to deliver a
message to the American commander at Fort Washington, Colonel
Magaw. Paterson was the same British officer who, in July, had
carried letters to Washington from Lord Howe proffering the
possibility of peace. This time he bore an ultimatum: surrender the
fort or face annihilation.

Page 294
Page 294
Told he had two hours to make up his mind, Magaw responded at
once with a written reply:
 
Sir, if I rightly understand the purport of your
message…‘this post is to be immediately surrendered or
the garrison put to the sword.’ I rather think it is a mistake
than a settled resolution in General Howe to act a part so
unworthy [of] himself and the British nation, but give me
leave to assure his excellency that actuated by the most
glorious cause that mankind ever fought in, I am
determined to defend this post to the very last extremity.
 
Howe had no intention of carrying out his threat of slaughter. The
ultimatum was designed to play on the fears and distress of the
rebels. Magaw’s bold response was written in the belief that he and
his men could indeed hold out, or if need be, escape across the
Hudson after dark.
 
***
 
WHEN WORD OF THE ULTIMATUM, and of Magaw’s answer,
reached Fort Lee later that afternoon, Nathanael Greene dispatched
a rider to tell Washington, who, earlier, had ridden to Hackensack,
six miles away, where his army had pitched camp.
 
Washington dashed back, arriving at Fort Lee at nightfall. Finding
that Greene and Israel Putnam had been rowed across the river to
meet with Magaw and appraise the situation, Washington followed in
a small boat.
 
Halfway across, he met Greene and Putnam, who were on their
way back, and there, at midriver in the dark, Greene and Putnam
gave an encouraging report. The troops were in “high spirits and

Page 295
Page 295
would make a good defense.” And thus, “it being late at night,” in
Washington’s words, the three returned to Fort Lee.
 
The same night, as went unobserved by the Americans, the
British brought a fleet of thirty flatboats up the river with oars muffled,
past Fort Washington, into Spuyten Duyvil Creek, and down the
Harlem, to be ready for morning.
 
*** 
 
AT FIRST CHANCE, early Saturday, November 16, Washington,
with Greene, Putnam, and another of his generals, Hugh Mercer of
Virginia, again crossed the Hudson, “to determine,” as Greene wrote,
“what was best to be done.” No sooner had their boat pushed off
than the sound of heavy cannon carried over the water, and off in the
distance, to the left of Fort Washington, they could see the attack
had begun.
 
Landing on the opposite shore, downriver from the fort, the four
generals scrambled up the steep slopes to the crest, to a point near
the Morris house.
 
“There we all stood in a very awkward situation,” wrote Greene.
“As the disposition [of the troops] was made and the enemy
advancing, we durst not attempt to make any new disposition.”
Somehow, they still could not see the disaster in store. “Indeed, we
saw nothing amiss,” Greene wrote.
 
Concerned for Washington’s safety, the three generals urged him
to leave and go back over the river. Greene volunteered to stay, as in
turn did Putnam and Mercer. But Washington thought it “best” that
they all go.
 
***

Page 296
Page 296
THE ASSAULT CAME from three directions, after a prolonged
pounding of the fort’s outer defenses by British cannon. Four
thousand Hessians came down from the north, over the bridge at
King’s Bridge, led by General von Knyphausen, who had requested
the honor of leading the main attack.
 
The Hessians were professionals hired to perform a duty, and
this was to be their day to show themselves superior in a profession
they took extreme pride in. (During the time he had been held
prisoner, Lord Stirling had heard Hessian officers remark that they
had never considered it their duty to inquire which of the two sides in
the American controversy was right.)
 
A force of British troops under Cornwallis, plus a battalion of
Highlanders, struck from the east, crossing the Harlem River in the
flatboats that had been brought up during the night. The third force of
some 3,000 men, both British and Hessians, came up from the
south, led by Lord Percy.
 
By ten o’clock General Howe had committed 8,000 troops to the
assault, nearly four times the number of those defending Fort
Washington.
 
The farthest reach of the fort’s outer defenses was about five
miles, north and south, and Knyphausen’s Hessians faced the
steepest, roughest terrain and withering fire from Virginia and
Maryland riflemen positioned among the rocks under Colonel Moses
Rawlings. It was the scene of the most ferocious fighting of the day,
and the Hessians were dauntless. The rock slopes they scaled
would have been a rough struggle even had no one been firing at
them. One of their officers, Captain Andreas Wiederhold, would
describe attacking up “this almost inaccessible rock,” and yet, “every
obstacle was swept aside…the precipitous rocks scaled.”

Page 297
Page 297
A Hessian soldier, John Reuber, wrote in his journal, “We were
obliged to drag ourselves by the beech-tree bushes up the height
where we could not really stand.”
 
At last, however, we got about on top of the hill where
there were trees and great stones. We had a hard time of it
there together. Because they now had no idea of yielding,
Col. Rall gave the word of command thus: “All that are my
grenadiers, march forwards!” All the drummers struck up
the march, the hautboy-players [oboe players] blew. At
once all that were yet alive shouted, “Hurrah!” Immediately
all were mingled together, Americans and Hessians. There
was no more firing, but all ran forward pell-mell upon the
fortress.
 
General Grant, who disliked the Hessians almost as much as he
disliked Americans, wrote with unalloyed admiration of how they
“surmounted every difficulty,” and after gaining the heights kept on
“at a trot…and if General Knyphausen had not stopped Colonel Rall,
I am convinced he would have been in the fort in five minutes.”
 
The other sides of the attack advanced accordingly, with some of
the American defenders putting up little resistance, while others
fought tenaciously. Alexander Graydon, who commanded a company
facing the assault by Lord Percy from the south, described how 150
men with a single 18-pound cannon held off 800 of the British.
 
When Percy’s attacking troops captured the Morris house, it was,
according to Graydon, only fifteen minutes after Washington and his
generals made their exit.
 
But courage was not enough. The Americans were too few to
hold such extended lines. The only recourse was to retreat to the fort
with all speed. A seventeen-year-old private from York,
Pennsylvania, John Adlum, described running such a distance uphill
that he had hardly breath enough to keep going. “As I was a good

Page 298
Page 298
deal fatigued and the firing had in a great measure ceased, I walked
to the fort very leisurely,” he wrote.
 
Before I was near the fort the British began to fire at it
with a field piece with round shot, at the men who were
standing in huddles between the fort and the lines within the
abbitis that was round the fort. When I arrived at this work, I
sat upon it looking at the enemy who were firing at us with
the field piece and not more than four hundred yards of us,
or from where I was then sitting, when at length a ball took
off a part of two men’s heads and wounded another. I then
went into the fort.
 
By one o’clock nearly all the defending force had been driven
inside the fort, where there was scarcely room for them.
 
An hour or so later, the Hessian commander, Knyphausen,
demanded surrender. Colonel Magaw said he needed time to
decide, and asked for half an hour. General Howe arrived and
ordered the Americans to surrender immediately, and with no terms
other than a promise of their lives.
 
It was three o’clock when Magaw capitulated, and about four
when the entire garrison of 2,837 Americans marched out of the fort
between two lines of Hessians and lay down their arms.
 
***  
 
IN A DISASTROUS CAMPAIGN for New York in which
Washington’s army had suffered one humiliating, costly reverse after
another, this, the surrender of Fort Washington on Saturday,
November 16, was the most devastating blow of all, an utter
catastrophe. The taking of more than a thousand American prisoners
by the British at Brooklyn had been a dreadful loss. Now more than
twice that number were marched off as prisoners, making a total loss
from the two battles of nearly four thousand men—from an army

Page 299
Page 299
already rapidly disintegrating from sickness and desertions and in
desperate need of almost anyone fit enough to pick up a musket.
 
(As Frederick Mackenzie recorded, the British were astonished to
find how many of the American prisoners were less than fifteen, or
old men, all “indifferently clothed,” filthy, and without shoes. “Their
odd figures frequently excited the laughter of our soldiers.”)
 
The crushing defeat at Fort Washington, the capture of its
garrison, plus quantities of arms, tools, tents, blankets, and some
146 brass and iron cannon, had been accomplished by the British
and Hessians in a matter of hours. And it need never have
happened.
 
Fifty-nine Americans had been killed and 100 or more wounded.
The British lost 28 killed and over 100 wounded. Hessian losses
were heavier, 58 killed and more than 250 wounded.
 
Bad as it was, it could have been even worse. In the view of both
General Grant and Colonel Mackenzie, an all-out slaughter of
Americans had been avoided only because General Knyphausen
stopped Colonel Rall and his Hessians from entering the fort. “They
had been pretty well pelted [in the battle], were angry and would not
have spared the Yankees,” Grant wrote. “The carnage would then
have been dreadful,” wrote Mackenzie, “for the rebels were so
numerous they had not room to defend themselves with effect, and
so frightened they had not the power.”
 
What lay ahead of the Americans taken prisoner was a horror of
another kind. Nearly all would be held captive in overcrowded,
unheated barns and sheds, and on British prison ships in the harbor,
where hundreds died of disease.
 
***

Page 300
Page 300
WASHINGTON IS SAID TO HAVE WEPTas he watched the
tragedy unfold from across the river, and though this seems unlikely,
given his well-documented imperturbability, he surely wept within his
soul. He had faced ruin before, but never like this. To his brother
Jack he would write, “I am wearied almost to death with the
retrograde motions of things.”
 
Nathanael Greene, in an anguished letter to Henry Knox, said, “I
feel mad, vexed, sick, and sorry. Never did I need the consoling
voice of a friend more than now. Happy should I be to see you. This
is a most terrible event. Its consequences are justly to be dreaded.”
 
Both Washington and Greene had been badly mistaken in their
judgment. Both worried over what would become of their reputations.
Indeed, it would be hard to say which of them was the most sensitive
to what others thought of them, and criticism of both was to be
severe, and especially among those who had been taken prisoner.
Alexander Graydon, writing more than a generation later, could still
barely contain his disdain for the decisions that had been made.
 
Most immediate and blistering was the reaction of Charles Lee.
By his own account, Lee became so furious over the news of Fort
Washington he tore out some of his hair. “I must entreat that you will
keep what I say to yourself, but I foresaw, predicted, all that has
happened,” Lee wrote to Dr. Benjamin Rush, an influential member
of Congress, who, Lee knew, would never keep it to himself. Lee
claimed his last words to Washington were, “Draw off the garrison, or
they will be lost.”
 
“Had I the powers, I could do you much good,” he told Rush not
very subtly, “but I am sure you will never give any man the necessary
power.”
 
“Oh, General,” Lee admonished Washington in a letter, “why
would you be over-persuaded by men of inferior judgment to your

Page 301
Page 301
own?”—thereby inviting the commander to blame it all on Nathanael
Greene.
 
Washington had failed to override Greene’s judgment and make
a clear decision of his own, and, as commander-in-chief, he was, of
course, ultimately responsible. Greene’s responsibility for what
happened ceased with Washington’s arrival at Fort Lee on
November 13, three days before the attack. Washington never
blamed himself for the loss of Fort Washington, but then he never
openly blamed Greene either, which he could have. He said only that
he had acted on the judgment of others.
 
Nor, importantly, did he fire Greene, or shuffle him off to some
meaningless, out-of-the-way command. He undoubtedly thought less
of the young general than he had before. Still, he knew Greene’s
strengths. Only weeks before, Greene had demonstrated both rare
foresight and a marked gift for organization when he recommended
to Washington, and Washington agreed, that a series of supply
depots be established across New Jersey, along what might, of
necessity, become the army’s path of retreat, should the British make
a drive toward Philadelphia.
 
Washington needed Greene. He knew that Greene, like Knox,
would never give up, never walk away, any more than he would, or
lose sight of what the war was about, any more than he would.
Washington would repay loyalty with loyalty, and this, after so many
bad decisions, was one of his wisest decisions ever.
 
Only one American hero was to emerge from what happened at
Fort Washington. She was Margaret (“Molly”) Corbin, the wife of a
Pennsylvania soldier, John Corbin, who had gone into battle at her
husband’s side, and when he was killed, stepped into his place, to
load and fire a cannon, until she fell wounded, nearly losing one arm.
After the surrender, she was allowed by her captors to return home
to Pennsylvania.

Page 302
Page 302
*** 
 
THE USUALLY UNHURRIED WILLIAM HOWE made his next
move with hardly a pause. Three nights later, he sent 4,000 British
and Hessian troops under the cover of darkness and drenching rain
across the Hudson to land upstream from Fort Lee at a point called
Closter. There, led by Cornwallis, they scaled the Palisades, climbing
a steep, almost perpendicular footpath, and once on top, advanced
on Fort Lee. It was a daring attack very like the one Howe himself,
as a young officer, had led up the steep slopes of Quebec early on
the morning of the British triumph there in the French and Indian
War.
 
Warning of the attack reached Fort Lee in advance, possibly from
a local farmer, possibly from a British deserter—accounts differ.
Washington rushed to the scene from Hackensack and shouted
orders to abandon the fort at once. Everything was to be left behind,
guns, stores, hundreds of tents, even breakfast cooking on the fire.
When the British arrived, they found the place deserted, but for a
dozen men who had gotten into the rum supply and were all drunk.
 
Washington and his army fled in haste down the road and over
the Hackensack River farther into New Jersey.

Page 303
Page 303
Chapter Seven Darkest Hour
Contents - Prev / Next
I hope this is the dark part of the night, which is generally just
before day.
—General Nathanael Greene
 
I
Contents - Prev / Next
 
THE RETREAT OFGEORGE WASHINGTON and his battered
little army, southward across New Jersey, began the morning of
November 21. They were headed for a crossing point called
Acquackanonk on the Passaic River, five miles away, retreat being
their only choice and rivers offering the one possible defense against
the oncoming foe in “dead flat” country, as Washington described it,
with no stone walls. Once over the Passaic, they pushed on another
twenty miles down the west bank of the river to the little port town of
Newark.
 
Heavy rains had left the narrow road sloppy with mud, and the
men were in tatters, many without shoes, their feet wrapped in rags.
Washington rode at the rear of the column, a point long remembered
by a newly arrived eighteen-year-old Virginia lieutenant named
James Monroe. “I saw him…at the head of a small band, or rather in
its rear, for he was always near the enemy, and his countenance and
manner made an impression on me which I can never efface.”
 
By young Monroe’s estimate, Washington had at most 3,000
men, yet his expression gave no sign of worry. “A deportment so

Page 304
Page 304
firm, so dignified, but yet so modest and composed, I have never
seen in any other person.”
 
Washington had set the army on the road in the early morning but
not before getting off an urgent request to General Lee at North
Castle, New York, in which he had made his worries and troubles
abundantly clear. The men were “broken and dispirited.” They had
no tents, no baggage, no entrenching tools. (Every pick and shovel
had been left behind at Fort Lee.) As things were, he dared not risk
contact with the enemy, Washington wrote, and “so must leave a
very fine country open to their ravages.”
 
He urged Lee to cross the Hudson with his brigades and join
forces before it was too late. New Jersey was too rich a prize to give
up without even the “appearance” of a fight. Were New Jersey to fall,
it could have devastating effect on Pennsylvania.
 
To be certain Lee understood what he wanted, Washington said it
again. “I would have you move over by the easiest and best [swiftest]
passage.”
 
Yet it was a request only, not an order.
 
The letter had been dictated to Joseph Reed and sent off by
express rider in a dispatch case into which Reed put a letter of his
own to Lee. But of this Washington was told nothing.
 
Reed’s letter was a stunning indictment of Washington. At best, it
could be taken as a desperate indiscretion; at worst, an
underhanded act of betrayal.
 
His commander’s indecision over whether to abandon New York
and again at Fort Washington had left Reed badly shaken. His
confidence in Washington was shattered. But instead of confiding his
feelings to Washington, he secretly poured them out to Lee, leaving

Page 305
Page 305
no doubt as to who he thought should be leading the army in its hour
of need.
 
He wished “most earnestly” to have Lee “where the principle
scene of action is laid,” Reed wrote, seconding what Washington
had said. Then, claiming he had no wish to flatter Lee, he went on to
do just that and to make his main point.
 
I do not mean to flatter or praise you at the expense of
any other, but I confess I do think it is entirely owing to you
that this army, and the liberties of America, so far as they
are dependent on it, are not totally cut off…. You have
decision, a quality often wanted in minds otherwise
valuable…. Oh! General, an indecisive mind is one of the
greatest misfortunes that can befall an army. How often
have I lamented it this campaign. All circumstances
considered, we are in a very awful and alarming situation—
one that requires the utmost wisdom and firmness of mind.
As soon as the season will admit, I think yourself and some
others should go to Congress and form the plan of the new
army.
 
Washington worried about the health of his men. He worried
about rumors of a British invasion to the south of Newark at Perth
Amboy, at the mouth of the Raritan River, where New Jersey and
Staten Island were separated by only a narrow channel.
 
In less than two weeks, on December 1, the enlistments of 2,000
of his troops would be up, the men free to go. It was the same
nightmare prospect he had faced at Boston exactly a year before,
and with the misery of the men greater now than ever, and morale
suffering, there seemed every chance that his army would evaporate
before his eyes.
 
Privately, Washington talked with Reed about the possibility of
retreating to western Pennsylvania if necessary. Reed thought that if

Page 306
Page 306
eastern Pennsylvania were to give up, the rest of the state would
follow. Washington is said to have passed his hand over his throat
and remarked, “My neck does not feel as though it was made for a
halter.” He talked of retreating to the mountains of Augusta County,
in western Virginia. From there they could carry on a “predatory war,”
Washington said. “And if over-powered, we must cross the Allegheny
Mountains.” He knew, as the enemy had little idea, just how big a
country it was.
 
The problem was not that there were too few American soldiers in
the thirteen states. There were plenty, but the states were reluctant
to send the troops they had to help fight the war, preferring to keep
them close to home, and especially as the war was not going well. In
August, Washington had had an army of 20,000. In the three months
since, he had lost four battles—at Brooklyn, Kips Bay, White Plains,
and Fort Washington—then gave up Fort Lee without a fight. His
army now was divided as it had not been in August and, just as
young Lieutenant Monroe had speculated, he had only about 3,500
troops under his personal command—that was all.
 
Desperate for help, he sent Reed off to Burlington, New Jersey,
on the eastern bank of the Delaware River, upstream from
Philadelphia, to impress upon the governor of New Jersey, William
Livingston, the urgent need for reinforcements. As it was, New
Jersey militia were not turning out in any numbers that could make a
difference.
 
General Mifflin was dispatched on a similar mission to
Philadelphia, to alert Congress to the “critical state of our affairs,”
and do everything possible to round up Pennsylvania troops and
send them on with all speed.
 
These were two critical undertakings, and in the choice of Reed,
his closest confidant, and the very able Mifflin, the Philadelphian who
had shown such valor in command of the rear guard at Brooklyn,
Washington felt confident he was sending two of the best men he

Page 307
Page 307
had, and that this would not be lost on any who listened to what they
had to say.
 
The first report from Mifflin was bitterly disappointing. His fellow
Pennsylvanians were “divided and lethargic,” Mifflin wrote,
“slumbering under the shade of peace and in the full enjoyment of
the sweets of commerce.” From Reed, Washington heard nothing.
 
*** 
 
IT RAINED HEAVILY on November 22, the day the army reached
Newark, and rain fell through that night and again the next day. “The
sufferings we endured are beyond description—no tent to cover us
at night—exposed to cold and rains day and night,” one soldier
would remember. Colonel Samuel Webb, writing at the time, said it
was impossible to describe conditions as they were. “I can only say
that no lads ever showed greater activity in retreating than we
have…. Our soldiers are the best fellows in the world at this
business.” Webb, who had only just recovered from wounds received
at White Plains, served still on Washington’s staff.
 
But of greatest importance, as time would tell, was the
impression made on Thomas Paine, the author of Common Sense,
who had recently volunteered to serve as a civilian aide on Greene’s
staff. Greene, with his love of literature and political philosophy, had
taken a great liking to the brilliant Paine, an impoverished English
immigrant, who, like Greene, had been raised a Quaker, and whose
pamphlet, Common Sense, since its appearance early in the year,
had become more widely read than anything yet published in
America. Greene called him Common Sense. (“Common Sense and
Col. Snarl, or Cornell, are perpetually wrangling about mathematical
problems,” Greene had reported to his wife during less troubled
times before the fall of Fort Washington.)
 
Sick at heart over the suffering and despair he saw, but inspired
by the undaunted resolution of many around him, Paine is said to

Page 308
Page 308
have committed his thoughts to paper during the retreat, writing at
night on a drumhead by the light of a campfire. He himself, however,
said it was not until later, at Philadelphia, that in a “passion of
patriotism,” he began what he called The Crisis, with its immortal
opening lines:
 
These are the times that try men’s souls. The summer
soldier and the sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink
from the service of their country; but he that stands it now,
deserves the love and thanks of man and woman.
 
On November 24, Washington sent off another message to
General Lee saying he must come by a “safe and secure route,” and
asking that he bring a particular 24-pound cannon, “provided it can
be done without great inconvenience.”
 
With Loyalists more prevalent in New Jersey than in any other of
the thirteen states, and American deserters continuing to go over to
the enemy, Washington’s plight was well known to the British
command.
 
“The fact is,” wrote Lord Rawdon, “their army is broken all to
pieces, and the spirit of their leaders and their abettors is all
broken…. I think one may venture to pronounce that it is well nigh
over with them.”
 
*** 
 
SINCE THE FALL of Fort Washington there had been a major
shift in British plans. General Clinton was reassigned. He was to sail
with an expedition of 6,000 troops to take Rhode Island, or more
specifically Newport. For in the time when the fortunes of the rebel
army were going steadily from bad to worse, rebel privateers off the
New England coast had been attacking British supply ships with
increasing success, and Admiral Lord Howe was in need of a
secure, ice-free winter roadstead in the vicinity for some of his fleet.

Page 309
Page 309
Clinton thought ill of the Rhode Island expedition. He had argued
that it be postponed and that instead he and his forces land at Perth
Amboy and thus outflank and destroy the crippled rebels in one
sweeping, concentrated effort before the onset of winter snow. Or,
Clinton proposed, he could carry his attack directly to Philadelphia,
by sailing up the Delaware. “This, in all probability,” he later wrote,
“would have dispersed the Congress, and…deranged all their
affairs.”
 
It was a critical moment in the management of the war, with
Clinton and William Howe once more opposed on how best to
proceed. Clinton continued to see Washington’s army as the heart of
the rebellion, and the envelopment of the army, therefore, as the
most expeditious strategy. Howe wanted to keep the Americans on
the run, and continue to clear the board, so to speak—to clear New
Jersey and Rhode Island of the rebel forces just as he had cleared
New York, and by such conquests of vital territory bring the deluded
American people and their political leaders to their senses and end
their demonstrably futile rebellion.
 
Clinton was overruled, and though unconvinced, he departed
dutifully for Rhode Island, where his expedition seized Newport
without opposition and the predominantly Quaker inhabitants
seemed quite happy to live in peace under his protection. But it was
a conquest of little importance. As would be said, its effect on the
course of the war was about what it would have been had Clinton’s
forces occupied the town of Newport on the Isle of Wight.
 
Difficulties between Clinton and William Howe, the friction of the
two contrasting personalities, had grown steadily worse. At White
Plains, in an outburst of frustration and anger, Clinton had told
General Cornwallis he could not bear to serve under Howe, and this
Cornwallis had chosen to tell Howe. Thus it was with considerable
relief that Howe saw Clinton sail off from New York, just as when
Clinton had departed Boston for South Carolina.

Page 310
Page 310
In Clinton’s place, Howe put Cornwallis, knowing he had a far
more reasonable man to deal with and a highly energetic and
effective field commander.
 
Like Howe—indeed, like Clinton—Charles Cornwallis was a true
eighteenth-century English aristocrat, a shining representative of
Britain’s ruling class, born to wealth, position, and influence.
Schooled at Eton, he had decided in his youth on a military career, in
which he had distinguished himself ever since. At age thirty-seven,
he was at his professional prime but, unlike Howe, a man with no
bad habits or inclinations to self-indulgence, and if not as
intellectually gifted as Clinton, he had no peevish or contrary side.
 
Tall and somewhat overweight, as was the fashion, he carried
himself well and was considered handsome, except for a cast in one
eye. (In fact, he had lost sight in one eye as a result of a boyhood
accident.) He was devoted to his ailing wife, whom he missed
dreadfully, and devoted to his men—“I love that army,” he had once
declared—and their devotion to him was notable. He was the most
popular British general serving in America, known to be strict but fair,
and genuinely concerned for the well-being of his troops. Repeatedly
in the year’s campaign—at Brooklyn, Kips Bay, Fort Washington, and
in his stunning surprise capture of Fort Lee—he had shown himself
to be enterprising and aggressive. Thus far, he had done everything
right.
 
On November 23, two days after the capture of Fort Lee,
Cornwallis had met there with General Howe (who, having been
made a Knight of the Bath by the King, was now Sir William Howe).
The two conferred for several hours, going over the map of New
Jersey and reviewing plans.
 
Howe gave orders to Cornwallis to pursue the rebels as far as
New Brunswick, or Brunswick as it was then known, another fifty

Page 311
Page 311
miles south of Newark, on the Raritan River, and stop there until
further orders.
 
On November 25, after the rains subsided, Cornwallis and an
army now numbering 10,000 set off, determined to catch
Washington, Cornwallis said, as a hunter bags a fox. But on the rain-
drenched roads, in muck ankle-deep or worse, the long columns of
redcoats and Hessians with their heavy baggage trains and artillery
moved slower even than the Americans had. They were three days
reaching Newark.
 
At nine o’clock on the morning of November 28, the British
engineering officer, Captain Archibald Robertson, recorded, “All the
army marched in two columns towards Newark, where it was said
the rebels would stand.” About one o’clock, the British advanced on
the town in force, only to find it empty.
 
Washington had pressed on toward Brunswick and the Raritan.
“The enemy gave us not the least interruption upon our march,” he
wrote to General Heath.
 
There was word at last from Charles Lee, but only to report his
own tribulations with foul weather and men without shoes. He was
still at North Castle and made no mention of plans to leave.
 
Washington replied at once. “My former letters were so full and
explicit as to the necessity of your marching as early as possible…
that I confess I expected you would have been sooner in motion,” he
said sharply. Yet he was still reluctant to issue a clear order to Lee.
 
By the time he reached Brunswick the morning of November 29,
Washington had been joined by the dauntless Lord Stirling and more
than 1,000 reinforcements. They were a first glimmer of hope,
though hardly enough. Numbers of Stirling’s men, too, were
shoeless and without coats or even shirts, and the December 1

Page 312
Page 312
expiration of enlistments, when twice that number would be free to
leave, was only two days away.
 
*** 
 
ON NOVEMBER 30 AT BRUNSWICK, a sealed letter from
General Lee to Joseph Reed arrived by express rider. With Reed still
absent, Washington tore it open thinking it might be news that Lee
and his men were at last on the way. The letter was dated November
24. “My dear Reed,” it began.
 
I received your most obliging, flattering letter—lament
with you that fatal indecision of mind which in war is a much
greater disqualification than stupidity or even want of
personal courage. Accident may put a decisive blunder in
the right, but eternal defeat and miscarriage must attend the
men of the best parts if cursed with indecision.
 
Lee went on to explain why he had not started for New Jersey as
Washington wished, and apparently he did not intend to do so.
 
What Washington thought or felt as he read the letter, or how
many times he may have reread its first paragraph, no one knows.
Clearly Reed, his trusted confidant and supposed friend, and Lee,
his secondin-command, had both lost faith in him.
 
Washington resealed the letter and sent it off to Reed with a note
of explanation.
 
The enclosed was put into my hands by an express
[rider]…. Having no idea of its being a private letter…I
opened it…. This, as it is the truth, must be my excuse for
seeing the contents of a letter which neither inclinationor
intention would have prompted me to.

Page 313
Page 313
He thanked Reed for the “trouble and fatigue” of his journey to
Burlington and wished him success in his mission. And that was all.
 
Possibly, Washington was more hurt than angry. Later he would
tell Reed, “I was hurt not because I thought my judgment wronged by
the expressions contained in it [the letter], but because the same
sentiments were not communicated immediately to myself.” Possibly
the charge of “fatal indecision of mind” also hurt deeply, because
Washington knew it to be true.
 
Above all, he must have felt profoundly alone, as alone as he had
ever been. First Greene had let him down, now Reed. And who was
to say what Lee had in mind, or might do?
 
At Philadelphia many of the Congress were ill or exhausted or
absent. All three of the principle contributors to the Declaration of
Independence were no longer present. Thomas Jefferson had gone
home to Virginia in September. John Adams was at Braintree.
Benjamin Franklin had departed on a mission to France. At times
there were not enough delegates for a quorum, and as the news
from New Jersey became more bleak, and the British army drew
nearer, Philadelphia was beset by an extreme outbreak of the jitters.
 
The Pennsylvania Journal announced “very good intelligence that
the British intend to make a push for Philadelphia,” and Richard
Henry Lee of Virginia, among others, reported “much alarm” in the
city and in Congress. Delegate William Hooper of North Carolina,
another signer of the Declaration of Independence, described a
prevailing “torpor” in Congress. Hooper, however, had no patience
with those blaming Washington for every misfortune.
 
Oh how I feel for Washington, that best of men [he
wrote]. The difficulties which he has now to encounter are
beyond the power of language to describe, but to be
unfortunate is to be wrong and there are men…who are

Page 314
Page 314
villains enough to brand him. There are some long faces
here.
 
Once, during the Siege of Boston, when almost nothing was
going right and General Schuyler had written from Albany to bemoan
his troubles, Washington had replied that he understood but that “we
must bear up against them, and make the best of mankind as they
are, since we cannot have them as we wish.” It was such resolve
and an acceptance of mankind and circumstances as they were, not
as he wished them to be, that continued to carry Washington
through. “I will not however despair,” he now wrote to Governor
William Livingston.
 
*** 
 
ON SUNDAY MORNING, December 1, with British and Hessian
columns advancing on Brunswick, 2,000 of Washington’s troops,
New Jersey and Maryland militia, their enlistments up, walked away
from the war, and without apology. “Two brigades left us at
Brunswick,” wrote Nathanael Greene, “notwithstanding the enemy
are within two hours march and coming on.”
 
Washington sent off still another urgent summons to Lee to come
with all speed, “or your arrival may be too late to answer any
valuable purpose.”
 
“The enemy are fast advancing,” he reported in a hurried
dispatch to John Hancock, noting that the time was half past one.
“Some of them are in sight.”
 
He ordered the only bridge over the Raritan at Brunswick
destroyed, and this had been largely accomplished. But the river was
fordable—in some places only knee-deep—and as he also told
Hancock, mincing no words, his present force was “totally
inadequate” to stop the enemy.

Page 315
Page 315
The first of the British artillery arrived at the river, and by late
afternoon British and American cannon were exchanging fire, the
American guns commanded by young Captain Alexander Hamilton.
But again, as at Newark, when the British troops pressed on to the
town the next morning, they found that the Americans had taken off.
 
Washington had decided what must be done. He was heading for
Trenton. “It being impossible to oppose them with our present force
with the least possible prospect of success,” he informed Congress,
“we shall retreat to the west bank of the Delaware.”
 
“When we left Brunswick,” wrote Nathanael Greene, “we had not
3,000 men—a very pitiful army to trust the liberties of America on.”
The hour had never looked darker.
 
The post road, or King’s Highway, from Brunswick to Trenton, the
main thoroughfare between New York and Philadelphia, was as
straight and flat and fine a thirty-mile stretch of road as any in the
country, and the retreating army made good time. The retreat was
not at a run. It was a forced march, not a rout, as sometimes
portrayed. Washington and the main body of the army, marching
through the night, reached Trenton on the Delaware the morning of
December 2, having left Lord Stirling and two brigades as a rear
guard at the little college town of Princeton.
 
Orders were issued to round up all boats along the east bank of
the Delaware and to destroy any that could not be used, to keep
them out of enemy hands.
 
Among the delegates to Congress, the distances from Brunswick
to Trenton and Trenton to Philadelphia were well known, and so if
Cornwallis was at Brunswick, then he and his army were a mere
sixty miles from Philadelphia. “The inhabitants of Princeton and
Trenton…are evacuated,” wrote Massachusetts delegate Robert
Treat Paine. “The people left them on Sunday night with panic and
precipitation.” People in Philadelphia were getting out, too, many

Page 316
Page 316
taking all the possessions they could carry. “Numbers of families
loading wagons,” a citizen recorded. “All shops ordered shut…
people in confusion, of all ranks.”
 
The great question on everyone’s mind was where were Lee and
his men. It was said they were not far, “close in the rear of the
enemy.” But no one knew. “I have not heard a word from General
Lee since the 26th of last month,” John Hancock read in a letter from
Washington dated December 3.
 
II
Contents - Prev / Next
 
WITH HIS BROTHER Sir William’s campaign succeeding
splendidly in New Jersey, and the war rapidly losing support among
the people there, David McCullough Admiral Lord Howe decided to
make yet another appeal for conciliation. Signed also by Sir William,
the new proclamation was their boldest, most generous gesture thus
far, they felt. It was issued in the spirit of their obligation, as
commissioned by the King, to serve as peace negotiators as well as
military commanders, but also because Lord Howe genuinely
believed that a negotiated settlement with the Americans was yet
possible and vastly preferable to a long-drawn-out conflict. He had
no desire to lose any more British lives or to inflict any more
destruction and suffering on the Americans than necessary.
 
The proclamation, dated November 30, was an immediate
success. It offered all who, within sixty days, would come forth and
take an oath of allegiance to the King—and pledge their “peaceable
obedience”—a “free and general pardon,” and that they would
 
reap the benefit of his Majesty’s paternal goodness, in
the preservation of their property, the restoration of their
commerce, and the security of their most valuable rights,

Page 317
Page 317
under the just and most moderate authority of the crown
and Parliament of Britain.
 
Hundreds, eventually thousands, in New Jersey flocked to the
British camps to declare their loyalty. Considering the way the war
was going, the size and might of the British army, and the pathetic
state of Washington’s meager band, it seemed the prudent thing to
do. As a farmer near Brunswick named John Bray wrote to a
kinsman:
 
You can come down and receive protection and return
home without molestation on the part of the King’s troops
and you best know the situation of the provincial army. Do
advise Cousin Johnny and Thomas and Cousin Thomas
Jones, for if they do stay out to the last, they will
undoubtedly fare the worst.
 
*** 
 
HAVING CROSSED THE RARITAN and occupied Brunswick on
December 1, Cornwallis called a halt, as he had been ordered by
General Howe. For six days—six merciful days for Washington and
his army—the British and Hessians made no move, a decision that
puzzled, even infuriated many of the British and local Loyalists who
saw no reason to let up on the chase.
 
Called on to explain later, Cornwallis would say his troops were
exhausted, footsore, hungry, and in need of rest. More important, it
had not seemed at the time that excessive haste was wise or
necessary. There were dangers in too rapid a pursuit. He worried
about General Lee, who was variously reported just ahead or coming
up from behind. But had it looked like he could catch Washington,
Cornwallis said, he would have kept going, whatever the risks, no
matter the orders.

Page 318
Page 318
Some would see the pause as a horrendous blunder and blame
William Howe. Captain Charles Stedman, one of Cornwallis’s own
officers and the earliest British historian of the war, would speculate
that had Cornwallis been allowed “to act at his own discretion…he
would have pursued the weakened and alarmed enemy to the
Delaware, over which, without falling into his hands, they never could
have passed.” But this assumed that Washington and the army could
not have escaped down the east side of the river, which seems
unreasonable.
 
The Hessian officer Johann Ewald, an intelligent and experienced
soldier, concluded that Cornwallis had no desire to put his valuable
troops in needless jeopardy. On the night of the capture of Fort Lee,
when Ewald and his jaegers had started after a column of rebels
retreating in “a cloud of dust,” Cornwallis had ordered them back.
“Let them go, my dear Ewald, and stay here,” Cornwallis had said.
“We do not want to lose any men. One jaeger is worth more than ten
rebels.” By the time of the halt at Brunswick, Ewald wrote, the hope
of the whole British command was “of ending the war amicably,
without shedding the blood of the King’s subjects in a needless way.”
 
Others would say it was for political reasons related to the latest
peace move that Cornwallis intentionally let Washington get away.
No one would ever prove this, and it seems unlikely, especially since
General Howe, sensing that a final blow might now indeed be struck,
arrived at Brunswick on December 6 with an additional brigade
commanded by General Grant, and ordered the advance to continue
at once.
 
The weather had turned unseasonably warm, ideal for
campaigning. A Loyalist newspaper in New York had already set the
scene in a report published the day before:
 
It is said by some persons who have lately seen the
rebel forces that they are the most pitiable collection of
ragged, dispirited mortals that ever pretended to the name

Page 319
Page 319
of an army…and that if the weather continues fair but a little
longer, there is no visible impediment to His Majesty’s
troops in completing a march to the capitol of Pennsylvania.
 
Everything seemed to the advantage of the conquering army, all
was going as wished except for one vexing problem that had been
growing steadily worse for several weeks. Marauding and pillaging
by redcoats and Hessians had gotten out of hand. “Scandalous
behavior for British troops,” wrote Major Stephen Kemble, the
Loyalist serving with the British army, “and the Hessians
outrageously licentious, and cruel to such a degree as to threaten
with death all such as dare obstruct them in their depredations.”
Kemble had recorded this in his diary in early November, before the
capture of Fort Washington. “[I] shudder for New Jersey,” he had
written.
 
The plenty of New Jersey, the “Garden of America,” its broad,
fertile, well-tended farms, abundant supplies of livestock, grain, hay,
food put up for winter, barrels of wine and beer for the taking, were
all too much to resist. On the first night his Hessian troops set foot in
New Jersey, Captain Ewald wrote, “All the plantations in the vicinity
were plundered, and whatever the soldiers found in the houses was
declared booty.” Ewald was appalled by what he saw.
 
On this march [through New Jersey] we looked upon a
deplorable sight. The region is well-cultivated, with very
attractive plantations, but all their occupants had fled and all
the houses had been or were being plundered and
destroyed.
 
The British blamed the Hessians. (“The Hessians are more
infamous and cruel than any,” wrote Ambrose Serle, after hearing
reports of British plundering.) The Hessians blamed the British. The
Americans blamed both the British and the Hessians, as well as the
New Jersey Loyalists, and the British and Hessian commanders
seemed no more able to put a stop to such excesses than

Page 320
Page 320
Washington had been. The stories, amplified as many may have
been, were a searing part of a war that seemed only to grow more
brutal and destructive.
 
Accounts of houses sacked, of families robbed of all they had,
became commonplace. American reports of atrocities were often
propaganda, but many were also quite accurate. The Pennsylvania
Journal, the Pennsylvania Evening Post, and the Freeman’s Journal
carried reports of the sick and elderly being abused, of rape and
murder. No one was safe, according to the British officer Charles
Stedman. “The friend and the foe from the hand of rapine shared
alike.”
 
The New Jersey Loyalists were the most villainous of all,
Nathanael Greene reported to his wife Caty.
 
They lead the relentless foreigners to the houses of their
neighbors and strip poor women and children of everything
they have to eat or wear; and after plundering them in this
sort, the brutes often ravish the mothers and daughters and
compel the fathers and sons to behold their brutality.
 
“The enemy’s ravages in New Jersey exceed all description,”
Greene would report to Governor Nicholas Cooke of Rhode Island.
“Many hundred women ravished.”
 
At Newark, according to the report of a congressional committee,
three women, one of whom was in her seventies, another pregnant,
were “most horribly ravished.”
 
Fear and outrage spread across New Jersey and beyond. “Their
footsteps are marked with destruction wherever they go,” Greene
said of the enemy.
 
What remained of Washington’s army, the “shadow army,” as
Greene called it, was pitiful to behold. “But give me leave to tell you,

Page 321
Page 321
Sir,” Greene would write to John Adams, “that our difficulties were
inconceivable to those who were not eye witnesses to them.”
 
*** 
 
BRITISH AND HESSIAN FORCES got under way from
Brunswick on December 7 and came on faster than ever, William
Howe having decided that, “The possession of Trenton was
extremely desirable.” With the continuing success of the
Proclamation of November 30 and hardly any opposition from the
rebels, Howe intended to secure another large part of New Jersey
where Loyalists were plentiful, and where, as he also said,
Philadelphia was in easy striking distance.
 
Washington was on his way from Trenton to look things over at
Princeton when he received word of the enemy’s strength and rapid
advance. Immediately he turned back.
 
“Our retreat should not be neglected for fear of consequences,”
advised Nathanael Greene, who had also ridden to Princeton earlier
in the day. In the trek across New Jersey, Washington had become
increasingly dependent on Greene. But it was “beyond doubt” that
the enemy was advancing, Greene reported. Lord Stirling expected
them by noon. Lee was also said to be “at the heels of the enemy,”
but Greene cautioned Washington that, whatever happened, Lee
ought to be kept under control “within the lines of some general plan
or else his operations will be independent of yours.”
 
Washington had already made his decision, and he calmly,
deliberately, carried it out. A fleet of boats was standing ready at
Trenton. By nightfall, the weary troops and their commander were
crossing the Delaware to the Pennsylvania shore, where bonfires
had been set ablaze to light the way.
 
One of those watching from the Pennsylvania side was the artist
Charles Willson Peale, who had arrived with a Philadelphia militia

Page 322
Page 322
unit in answer to Washington’s call for help. Peale wrote later of the
firelight on the river and shore, of boats laden with soldiers, horses,
cannon, and equipment, of men calling out orders. It was “a grand
but dreadful” spectacle: “The hallooing of hundreds of men in their
difficulties getting horses and artillery out of the boats, made it rather
the appearance of Hell than any earthly scene.”
 
The long retreat that had begun in New York and continued from
the Hudson to the Delaware was over. Casualties had been few in
New Jersey, and its pitiable appearance and miseries
notwithstanding, the army, or the semblance of an army, had once
again survived.
 
“With a handful of men we sustained an orderly retreat,” wrote
Thomas Paine in The Crisis, which soon appeared in Philadelphia.
No sign of fear was to be seen, he insisted. “Once more we are
collected and collecting…. By perseverance and fortitude we have
the prospect of a glorious issue.”
 
Henry Knox, writing on the morning of December 8, his first letter
to his wife in weeks, said she might be surprised to find he was in
Pennsylvania. Though physically exhausted, he, like Paine, refused
to be downcast. It was “a combination of unlucky circumstances” that
had brought things to such a pass, he told her. “We are now making
a stand on the side of the Delaware toward Philadelphia.”
 
In truth, men were dreadfully dispirited. Many had given up, in
addition to the 2,000 who had refused to sign on again after
December 1. Hundreds had deserted. Many of those left were sick,
hungry, altogether as miserable as they appeared.
 
To Charles Willson Peale, walking among them by the light of the
next morning on the Pennsylvania shore, they looked as wretched as
any men he had ever seen. One had almost no clothes. “He was in
an old dirty blanket jacket, his beard long, and his face so full of
sores that he could not clean it.” So “disfigured” was he that Peale

Page 323
Page 323
failed at first to recognize that the man was his own brother, James
Peale, who had been with a Maryland unit as part of the rear guard.
 
*** 
 
THAT THE ENEMY MIGHT CROSS the Delaware at one or
several points and move quickly to seize Philadelphia, as they had
New York, no one doubted. On Washington’s orders every boat not
commanded to bring the army across had been destroyed for sixty
miles along the east bank of the river, which was no small
accomplishment. But broad and swift as it was, the river could
remain a barrier to Howe only so long, as Washington warned the
members of Congress repeatedly in a series of urgent dispatches.
 
“From several accounts, I am led to think that the enemy are
bringing boats with them,” he wrote.
 
If so, it will be impossible for our small force to give them
any considerable opposition in the passage of the river….
Under the circumstances, the security of Philadelphia
should be our next object.
 
In another letter to John Hancock, he stated flatly that
“Philadelphia beyond all question is the object of the enemy’s
movements,” that “nothing less than our utmost exertions” could stop
Howe, and that his own force was too thin and weak to count on.
 
Washington and his staff had taken up quarters in a brick house
directly across the river from Trenton, where he hoped to keep watch
on the enemy. His troops were scattered close by the river for nearly
twenty-five miles, camped in the woods and brush out of sight from
the river, the greater part of them about ten miles to the north of
Washington’s headquarters.
 
While Joseph Reed had gotten nowhere with his recruiting efforts
in New Jersey, Mifflin’s efforts had produced some results. The

Page 324
Page 324
Philadelphia volunteer militia (or Philadelphia Associators as they
were called) that Charles Willson Peale had arrived with numbered
1,000 and marched into camp “in a very spirited manner,” as
Washington noted approvingly.
 
On December 10, word came at last that Lee and 4,000 troops
commanded by General Sullivan had reached Morristown to the
northeast.
 
“General Lee…is on his march to join me,” Washington wrote to
the governor of Connecticut, Jonathan Trumbull. “If he can effect this
junction, our army will again make a respectable appearance, and
such as I hope will disappoint the enemy in their plan on
Philadelphia.”
 
Everything depended on Lee.
 
The letter to Trumbull was written December 14, when
Washington knew nothing of events of the day before, Friday the
13th—events wholly unexpected and of far-reaching consequences.
As time would show, that Friday the 13th had been an exceedingly
lucky day for Washington and for his country.
 
*** 
 
IN AN INEXPLICABLE LAPSE of judgment, General Lee had
spent the previous night of the 12th separated from his troops,
stopping at a tavern about three miles away at Basking Ridge, for
what reason is not known.
 
With Lee was a personal guard of fifteen officers and men. The
next morning, in low spirits and no apparent hurry, Lee sat at a table
in his dressing gown attending to routine paperwork, then took time
to write a letter to General Gates for no other purpose than to blame
Washington for all his troubles and for the woeful state of affairs in
general.

Page 325
Page 325
“Entre nous, a certain great man is damnable deficient,” Lee told
Gates.
 
He has thrown me into a situation where I have my
choice of difficulties: if I stay in this province, I risk myself
and army; and if I do not stay, the province is lost forever….
In short, unless something which I do not expect turns up,
we are lost.
 
It was just after ten when a swarm of British cavalry appeared
suddenly at the end of the lane. They were a scouting party of
twenty-five horsemen commanded by Colonel William Harcourt, who
had once served under Lee in Portugal. They had been sent out
from Trenton by Cornwallis to gather intelligence on Lee’s “motions
and situation.” At Basking Ridge, a local Loyalist had given them the
answer.
 
From the end of the lane to the tavern was a distance of about a
hundred yards. Six of the horsemen, led by Lieutenant Banister
Tarleton, came at a gallop. In minutes they had the building
surrounded, killed two of the guards, and scattered the rest.
 
“I ordered my men to fire into the house through every window
and door, and cut up as many of the guard as they could,” Tarleton
later wrote.
 
Some of those inside fired back. Then the owner of the tavern, a
woman named White, appeared at the door. Screaming that Lee was
inside, she begged for mercy.
 
Tarleton shouted that he would burn the building unless Lee gave
himself up. In a few minutes Lee appeared and surrendered, saying
he trusted he would be treated as a gentleman.

Page 326
Page 326
A young American lieutenant who had been inside and managed
to escape, James Wilkinson, would later describe how a cheer went
up among Lee’s captors and a trumpet sounded. Then off they
dashed with their prize, the “unfortunate” Lee, hatless, still in his
dressing gown and slippers, mounted on Wilkinson’s horse, which
happened to have been tethered at the door. The astonishing raid
had taken no more than fifteen minutes.
 
News of Lee’s capture spread in all directions as fast as the
fastest horses could move. The British were jubilant. At Brunswick,
where the prisoner was put under lock and key, Harcourt’s
cavalrymen celebrated by getting Lee’s horse (Wilkinson’s horse)
drunk, along with themselves, as a band played into the night.
 
A Hessian captain wrote in his journal, “We have captured
General Lee, the only rebel general whom we had cause to fear.”
The hero of the hour, Lieutenant Tarleton, wrote triumphantly to his
mother, “This coup de main has put an end to the campaign.”
 
When the news reached England it was thought at first to be too
improbable, then set off bell-ringing and joyful demonstrations as if a
great battle had been won.
 
Among the British, it was thought that because Lee was a British
soldier and gentleman, he was therefore, of course, superior to any
raw American provincial who had assumed high rank, but then for
the same reason, he was also that much more of a traitor to his King.
 
To the American officers and troops deployed along the west
bank of the Delaware, and all whose hopes were riding on them, the
loss of Lee seemed the worst possible news at the worst possible
moment.
 
To Nathanael Greene it was one of a “combination of evils…
pressing in upon us on all sides.” Washington, on first hearing what
had happened, called it a “severe blow,” then said he would

Page 327
Page 327
comment no further on “this unhappy accident.” Privately he was
furious with Lee for having been such a fool. “Unhappy man! Taken
by his own imprudence,” he told Lund Washington. And privately he
must also have breathed a sigh of relief. After the continuing
frustrations and anxieties Lee had subjected him to, there must have
been a feeling of deliverance for Washington.
 
The popular, egotistical general who considered the members of
Congress no better than cattle and longed for the “necessary power”
to set everything straight was no longer a factor. In little time, fearing
he might be hanged as a traitor and hoping to ingratiate himself with
his old military friend William Howe, Lee would resort to offering his
thoughts to Howe on ways the British could win the war.
 
The same day as Lee’s capture, Washington learned that
Congress had adjourned in order to move to a safer location at
Baltimore. It was abandoning Philadelphia for the first time since
convening there for the First Continental Congress in 1774.
 
*** 
 
EVERYTHING SEEMED TO BE HAPPENING at once. On
December 13, at his Trenton headquarters across the river from
Washington, William Howe made one of the fateful decisions of the
war. He was suspending further military operations until spring.
Beginning immediately, he and his army would retire to winter
quarters in northern New Jersey and New York. To secure the
ground gained in the campaign, he would establish a string of
outposts in New Jersey.
 
There had been a change in the weather. The days had turned
much colder. The nights were the coldest yet with a “hard frost” and
snow flurries, and this was all Howe had needed to make up his
mind, “the weather,” as he wrote, “having become too severe to keep
the field.”

Page 328
Page 328
It was commonly understood that eighteenth-century professional
armies and their gentlemen commanders did not subject themselves
to the miseries of winter campaigns, unless there were overriding
reasons to the contrary. Considering all he had accomplished in the
year’s campaign and knowing the helpless state of the rebel army,
Howe saw no cause to continue the fight or to remain a day longer
than necessary in a punishing American winter in a place like
Trenton.
 
And there were, besides, compelling reasons to retire to New
York City, for quarters for the army, and for the comforts and
pleasures that so appealed to the general himself.
 
Howe departed for New York on Saturday, December 14, joined
by Cornwallis, whom he had granted leave to return to England to
visit his ailing wife.
 
General Howe cozily accommodated in New York, as pictured in
the minds of many, would rekindle old gossip and give rise to some
popular doggerel:
 
Sir William, he, snug as a flea, 
Lay all this time a-snoring; 
Nor dreamed of harm, as he lay warm 
In bed with Mrs. Loring.
 
***
 
NO BOATS WERE TO BE BUILT or hauled overland by the
British to cross the Delaware. And for now there was to be no march
on Philadelphia. The members of Congress could as well have
stayed where they were.

Page 329
Page 329
But of this Washington seems to have known little or nothing.
Close as he was to the enemy he had almost no idea of what they
were doing, no knowledge that Howe and Cornwallis had departed,
and that neither he nor Congress were any longer under immediate
threat.
 
“The Delaware now divides what remains of our little force from
that of General Howe whose object, beyond all question, is to
possess Philadelphia,” Washington wrote on December 18, four
days after Howe’s departure, to James Bowdoin, a member of the
Massachusetts Council. Were the river to freeze, Washington feared,
the enemy might attack over the ice. “Strain every nerve for carrying
out the necessary works,” he told Israel Putnam, who was charged
with the defense of Philadelphia. “There seems to be the strongest
reason to believe the enemy will attempt to pass the river as soon as
the ice is sufficiently formed.”
 
Desperate for reliable intelligence—for information of almost any
kind—Washington let it be known he was willing to pay for it, at
almost any price. In a dispatch to his general officers, he implored
them to find a spy who would cross the river and determine whether
any boats were being built or coming overland. “Expense must not
be spared in procuring such intelligence, and will readily be paid by
me.” To Lord Stirling, he wrote, “Use every possible means without
regard to expense to come with certainty at the enemy’s strength,
situation, and movements—without this we wander in a wilderness of
uncertainties.”
 
As early as December 15, he had received a report from a
commander of Pennsylvania militia posted below Trenton, John
Cadwalader, saying, “General Howe is certainly gone to New York,
unless the whole is a scheme to amuse and surprise.” Perhaps
Washington found it impossible to believe, or suspected that it was
indeed a ruse. Whatever the reason, he seems to have ignored it.

Page 330
Page 330
The foe gathered on the other side of the river was the British
army no longer, but a holding force of 1,500 Hessians settled in for
the winter under the command of Colonel Johann Rall, the veteran
officer who had led the fierce Hessian assaults at White Plains and
Fort Washington.
 
Concerned about “the apparent designs” of the enemy—the
“wilderness of uncertainties”—Washington moved his headquarters
ten miles upstream to Buckingham Township, closer to the main
body of the army, where Greene, Stirling, and Knox had their
headquarters.
 
In two weeks, on New Year’s Day, all enlistments would expire.
And what then? “Our only dependence now is upon the speedy
enlistment of a new army,” he wrote to Lund Washington. “If this fails,
I think the game is pretty near up.”
 
On December 20, in the midst of a snowstorm, General Sullivan
rode into Buckingham at the head of Lee’s troops, having marched
at a pace four times what Lee had set in order to join Washington as
soon as possible. But instead of the 4,000 that Washington had been
expecting, there were only half that number, and the men were in
more wretched condition even than Washington’s own ranks. When
Lee had complained of his troops having no shoes, it had been no
exaggeration for effect. General Heath would later write of seeing
Lee’s troops pass through Peekskill, many “so destitute of shoes that
the blood left on the frozen ground, in many places, marked the
route they had taken.”
 
One of those who had made the trek from Peekskill was
Lieutenant Joseph Hodgkins. In a letter headed “Buckingham in
Pennsylvania, December 20, 1776,” Hodgkins reported to his wife
Sarah:
 
We have been on the march since the 29th of last
month and we are now within 10 or 12 miles of General

Page 331
Page 331
Washington’s army. We expect to be there tonight. But how
long we shall stay there I can’t tell. Neither can I tell you
much about the enemy, only that they are on one side of
the Delaware River and our army on the other.
 
They had marched about two hundred miles, Hodgkins thought,
and the greatest part of the way was dangerous—“the enemy being
near,” but also because so much of the country was “full of them
cursed creatures called Tories.”
 
General Gates, too, arrived, but to Washington’s disappointment,
he had with him only six hundred men.
 
Before departing for Baltimore, Congress had named Robert
Morris to head the committee to look after affairs in Philadelphia, by
now an all-but-abandoned city. Writing to Morris three days before
Christmas, Washington said he thought the enemy was waiting for
two events only before marching on Philadelphia—“Ice for a
passage, and the dissolution of the poor remains of our debilitated
army.”
 
As near as could be determined, Washington now had an army of
about 7,500, but that was a paper figure only. Possibly 6,000 were fit
for duty. Hundreds were sick and suffering from the cold. Robert
Morris and others in and around Philadelphia were doing everything
possible to find winter clothes and blankets, while more and more of
the local citizenry were signing the British proclamation. Congress
had fled. Two former members of Congress, Joseph Galloway and
Andrew Allen, had gone over to the enemy. By all reasonable signs,
the war was over and the Americans had lost.
 
Yet for all the troubles that beset him, all the high expectations
and illusions that he had seen shattered since the triumph at Boston,
Washington had more strength to draw upon than met the eye—in
his own inner resources and in the abilities of those still with him and
resolved to carry on.

Page 332
Page 332
In Greene, Stirling, and Sullivan he had field commanders as
good as or better than any. Though Greene, his best, and the very
able Joseph Reed had let him down, both had learned from the
experience, just as Washington had, and were more determined
than ever to prove themselves worthy in his eyes. Greene, as he
would confide to his wife, was extremely happy to have again “the
full confidence of his Excellency,” confidence that seemed to
increase “the more difficult and distressing our affairs grow.”
 
Henry Knox, a novice artilleryman no longer, and the steadfast
John Glover, could be counted on no matter how tough the going. (In
recognition of the part played thus far by the twenty-six-year-old
Knox, Washington had already recommended him for promotion to
the rank of brigadier general.) Junior officers and soldiers in the
ranks, men like Joseph Hodgkins, were battered, weary, ragged as
beggars, but not beaten.
 
Washington himself was by no means beaten. If William Howe
and others of like mind thought the war was over and the British had
won, Washington did not. Washington refused to see it that way.
 
With Lee gone and Congress entrusting him with more power,
Washington was fully the commander now and it suited him. Out of
adversity he seemed to draw greater energy and determination. “His
Excellency George Washington,” wrote Greene later, “never
appeared to so much advantage as in the hour of distress.”
 
His health was excellent. The loyalty of those he counted on was
stronger than ever.
 
On December 24, the day before Christmas, Washington’s judge
advocate, Colonel William Tudor, who had been with him from the
beginning, wrote again, as he often had during the campaign, to tell
his fiancée in Boston of his continuing love for her, and to explain
why his hopes of returning soon to Boston had vanished. “I cannot

Page 333
Page 333
desert a man (and it would certainly be desertion in a court of honor)
who has deserted everything to defend his country, and whose chief
misfortune, among ten thousand others, is that a large part of it
wants spirit to defend itself.”
 
*** 
 
BRISTOL, PENNSYLVANIA, was a small town on the western
side of the Delaware, downstream from Trenton, across the river
from Burlington, New Jersey. It was from Bristol, where he was
helping to organize Pennsylvania militia, that Joseph Reed had
written a remarkable letter to Washington dated December 22.
 
It was time something was done, something aggressive and
surprising, Reed wrote. Even failure would be preferable to doing
nothing.
 
Will it not be possible, my dear General, for our troops
or such part of them as can act with advantage to make a
diversion or something more at or about Trenton? The
greater the alarm, the more likely success will attend the
attacks….
 
I will not disguise my own sentiments that our cause is
desperate and hopeless if we do not take the opp[ortunit]y
of the collection of troops at present to strike some stroke.
Our affairs are hastening fast to ruin if we do not retrieve
them by some happy event. Delay with us is now equal to
total defeat.
 
Apparently the letter was unsolicited. What was remarkable was
the degree to which it corresponded with Washington’s own mind
and plans.
 
In the bleak days after the Battle of Brooklyn, Washington had
told Congress, “We should on all occasions avoid a general action or

Page 334
Page 334
put anything to the risk unless compelled by a necessity.” But he had
also written of the possibility of some “brilliant stroke” on his part that
might save the cause.
 
On December 14, he had written to Governor Trumbull that a
“lucky blow” against the enemy would “most certainly rouse the
spirits of the people, which are quite sunk by our misfortunes.”
 
Now, compelled by necessity, his “brilliant stroke” worked out in
his mind, he was ready to put almost everything at risk.
 
With Greene and a few others at the Buckingham headquarters,
he had been going over the plan for days, insisting on the strictest
secrecy.
 
But on December 21, Robert Morris had written to say he had
heard an attack across the Delaware was being prepared and that
he hoped this was true.
 
Responding now to Reed, Washington confirmed that an attack
on Trenton was to begin Christmas night. “For Heaven’s sake keep
this to yourself, as discovery of it may prove fatal to us…but
necessity, dire necessity, will, nay must, justify an attempt.”
 
III
Contents - Prev / Next
 
ON CHRISTMAS EVE, Washington called a meeting at Greene’s
headquarters to go over the final details.
 
The army was to attack across the Delaware at three places. A
force of 1,000 Pennsylvania militia and some 500 veteran Rhode
Island troops, led by General John Cadwalader and Joseph Reed,
were to cross downriver at Bristol and advance toward Burlington.

Page 335
Page 335
A second smaller force of 700 Pennsylvania militia under General
James Ewing was to attack directly across the river at Trenton and
hold the wooden bridge over Assunpink Creek at the foot of Queen
Street, which the enemy might use as an escape route.
 
The third and much the largest force of 2,400 of the Continental
Army led by Washington, Greene, Sullivan, and Stirling would cross
the Delaware, nine miles upstream from Trenton, at McKonkey’s
Ferry.
 
Once over the river, Washington’s army would head south, then
halfway to Trenton divide into two columns, one led by Sullivan,
taking the River Road, the other, commanded by Greene, taking the
Pennington Road farther inland. Four of Knox’s cannon were to
advance at the head of each column. Washington would ride with
Greene.
 
According to the latest intelligence, the enemy’s force at Trenton
numbered between 2,000 and 3,000 men.
 
The first step, the crossing, was set for midnight, December 25,
Christmas night. By marching through the night, the two columns
were to arrive at Trenton no later than five in the morning. The attack
was set for six, an hour before daylight. Officers were to have a
piece of white paper in their hats to distinguish them. Absolute
secrecy was demanded. A “profound silence” was to be observed,
the orders read, “and no man to quit his ranks on pain of death.”
 
Christmas Day the weather turned ominous. A northeast storm
was gathering. The river was up, and filled with broken sheets of ice.
 
In the course of the day, Joseph Reed arrived from Bristol,
accompanied by Congressman and physician Benjamin Rush, who,
since the adjournment of Congress, had reported to Reed and
Cadwalader to volunteer his services. Years later, Rush would recall

Page 336
Page 336
a private meeting with Washington at Buckingham, during which
Washington seemed “much depressed.” In “affecting terms,” he
described the state of the army. As they talked, Washington kept
writing something with his pen on small pieces of paper. When one
of them fell to the floor by Rush’s foot, he saw what was written:
“Victory or Death.” It was to be the password for the night.
 
When Rush, or possibly Reed, warned the general not to expect
very much from the militiamen under Cadwalader, Washington
scratched out a note that he asked Rush to take to Cadwalader as
soon as possible:
 
I am determined, as the night is favorable, to cross the
river and make an attack on Trenton in the morning. If you
can do nothing real, at least create as great a diversion as
possible.
 
The crossing of Washington’s force was to be made in big flat-
bottomed, high-sided Durham boats, as they were known, normally
used to transport pig iron on the Delaware from the Durham Iron
Works near Philadelphia. Painted black and pointed at both ends,
they were forty to sixty feet long, with a beam of eight feet. The
biggest of them could carry as many as forty men standing up, and
fully loaded they drew only about two feet, and so could be brought
close to shore. The oars—or sweeps—used to propel the boats were
eighteen feet long.
 
Henry Knox was to organize and direct the crossing, and the
biggest, most difficult part of the task, as he knew, would be
transporting eighteen field cannon and fifty horses or more, including
those of the officers. Again, as at Brooklyn, John Glover and his men
were in charge of the boats.
 
Before leaving his headquarters to lead the march, Washington,
in what seems to have been a state of perfect calm, wrote to Robert
Morris, “I agree with you that it is vain to ruminate upon, or even

Page 337
Page 337
reflect upon the authors of our present misfortunes. We should
rather exert ourselves, and look forward with hopes, that some lucky
chance may yet turn up in our favor.”
 
Drums rolled in the camps, and starting about two in the
afternoon the army began moving out for the river, each man
carrying sixty rounds of ammunition and food enough for three days.
 
*** 
 
IT WAS NEARLY DARK and raining when the first troops
reached McKonkey’s Ferry where the boats waited. Henry Knox’s
unmistakable bass voice could be heard bellowing orders above the
rising wind and rain. According to one account, had it not been for
the powerful lungs and “extraordinary exertions” of Knox, the
crossing that night would have failed.
 
Knox himself later praised the heroic efforts of Glover and his
men, describing how ice in the river made their labor “almost
incredible,” and the “almost infinite difficulty” they had getting the
horses and cannon on board the boats.
 
The Delaware was not so broad at McKonkey’s Ferry as at
Trenton or below Trenton, where it became a tidal estuary. Under
normal conditions the width of the river at McKonkey’s Ferry was
about eight hundred feet, but with the water as high as it was that
night, the distance was greater by fifty feet or more, and the current
strong, the ice formidable, as all accounts attest.
 
Glover’s men used oars and poles to get the big boats across.
The troops went standing, packed on board as close as possible.
 
Washington crossed early and watched the slow process from
the New Jersey side. About eleven o’clock, the storm struck, a full-
blown northeaster.

Page 338
Page 338
Among the most vivid firsthand accounts of the night was that of
John Greenwood, the young fifer from Boston, who after the march
to New York in April had been sent off to serve in Canada and had
only just rejoined Washington’s army.
 
Fifes not being a priority under the circumstances, sixteen-year-
old Greenwood carried a musket like every other man and crossed in
one of the first boats.
 
Over the river we then went in a flat-bottomed scow [he
wrote]…and we had to wait for the rest and so began to pull
down fences and make fires to warm ourselves, for the
storm was increasing rapidly. After a while it rained, hailed,
snowed, and froze, and at the same time blew a perfect
hurricane, so much so that I perfectly recollect, after putting
the rails on to burn, the wind and fire would cut them in two
in a moment, and when I turned my face to the fire, my
back would be freezing. However…by turning myself round
and round I kept myself from perishing.
 
As during the escape from Brooklyn, Washington’s other daring
river-crossing by night, a northeaster was again, decisively, a
blessing and a curse—a blessing in that it covered the noise of the
crossing, a curse in that, with the ice on the river, it was badly
slowing progress when time was of the essence. The plan was to
have the whole army over the river no later than midnight, in order to
reach Trenton before dawn.
 
According to Washington, it was three o’clock, three hours behind
schedule, before the last of the troops, horses, and cannon were
across.
 
At that point the attack might have been called off, the men sent
back over the river, since the entire plan rested on the element of
surprise and the chances for surprise now seemed gone. It was a
decision that could not be delayed and involved great risk either way.

Page 339
Page 339
Washington decided without hesitation. As he would explain
succinctly to John Hancock, “I well knew we could not reach it
[Trenton] before day was fairly broke, but as I was certain there was
no making a retreat without being discovered, and harassed on
repassing the river, I determined to push on at all events.”
 
Downstream, as he had no way of knowing, the other part of his
plan was failing badly. General Ewing had called off his attack on
Trenton because of ice in the river. At Bristol, where ice was piled
higher even than at Trenton, Cadwalader and Reed had succeeded
in getting some of their troops over to the other side, but then,
unable to move their cannon across, they, too, had called off the
attack.
 
“It was as severe a night as I ever saw,” wrote an officer with
Cadwalader,
 
and after two battalions were landed, the storm
increased so much that it was impossible to get the artillery
over, for we had to walk one hundred yards on the ice to get
on shore. General Cadwalader, therefore, ordered the
whole to retreat again, and we had to stand at least six
hours under arms—first to cover the landing, and till all the
rest had retreated again—and by this time the storm of
wind, rain, hail, and snow with the ice was so bad that some
of the infantry could not get back till next day.
 
Unable to recross the ice with their horses, Reed and another
officer chose to stay on the New Jersey side, concealed in the house
of a friend.
 
Thus, of the three planned attacks on the enemy, only one was
moving forward and it perilously behind schedule.

Page 340
Page 340
The march south from McKonkey’s Ferry was for many the most
harrowing part of the night. The storm grew worse, with cold driving
rain, sleet, snow, and violent hail. The troops, as Henry Knox wrote,
pushed on “with the most profound silence.”
 
For the first half mile or more the dark road from the ferry was a
steep uphill climb. After another two miles the road dropped into a
ravine and crossed Jacobs Creek.
 
John Greenwood remembered moving no faster than a child
could walk, stopping frequently, and suffering terribly from the cold.
 
I recollect very well that at one time, when we halted on
the road, I sat down on the stump of a tree and was so be-
numbed with cold that I wanted to go to sleep. Had I been
passed unnoticed, I should have frozen to death without
knowing it.
 
In fact, in the course of the night two of the men did freeze to
death.
 
There was little light to see by. A few men carried lanterns, and
torches were mounted on some of the cannon.
 
The entire 2,400 on the march kept together for five miles, as far
as a little crossroads called Birmingham, where the army divided,
Sullivan’s column keeping to the right on the River Road, while
Washington’s and Greene’s force veered off to the left on the
Pennington Road, both routes slick with ice and snow. The distance
to Trenton was the same either way, about four miles. Men and
horses kept slipping and skidding in the dark.
 
A Connecticut lieutenant, Elisha Bostwick, remembered
Washington coming along on his horse, telling the men “in a deep
and solemn voice” to keep with their officers. “For God’s sake keep
with your officers.”

Page 341
Page 341
When his army had marched out of Boston heading for New York
and their first field of battle, the commander-in-chief had traveled by
coach. Much of the time since, he had conducted the war from
established headquarters in elegant houses. And though he had
been with the army the night of the escape from Brooklyn and
through the retreat across New Jersey, until now he had never been
with them as a field commander on the attack.
 
When handed a message from General Sullivan saying that the
men had found their guns too soaked to fire, Washington answered,
“Tell the general to use the bayonet.”
 
“None but the first officers knew where we were going, or what
we were about,” John Greenwood wrote.
 
This was not unusual, however, as I never heard
soldiers say anything, nor ever saw them trouble
themselves, as to where they were or where they were led.
It was enough for them to know that wherever the officers
commanded they must go…for it was all the same owing to
the impossibility of being in a worse condition than their
present one, and therefore the men always liked to be kept
moving in expectation of bettering themselves.
 
The two columns reached their assigned positions outside
Trenton at about the same time, a few minutes before eight, an hour
after daylight.
 
 
TRENTON WAS OFTEN REFERRED TO as a pretty village,
which was an exaggeration. With perhaps a hundred houses, an
Episcopal church, a marketplace, and two or three mills and iron
furnaces, it was, in peacetime, a busy but plain little place of no
particular consequence, except that it was at the head of navigation
on the river and a stop on the King’s Highway from New York to

Page 342
Page 342
Philadelphia. There was also a large two-story stone barracks built
during the French and Indian War, and the bridge over Assunpink
Creek below town.
 
The principal streets were King Street and Queen Street, which
ran parallel toward the river, sloping downhill from the point above
town where the Pennington Road and the King’s Highway
converged. By Washington’s plan of attack, this point, the head of
King and Queen streets, would decide the day.
 
But in the early light of December 26, in the white blur of the
continuing storm, it was difficult to distinguish much of anything
about Trenton.
 
Most of the townspeople had fled, taking as much as possible of
their belongings. In the bare houses and the stone barracks were
quartered the 1,500 Hessians who occupied the town. Their
commander, Colonel Rall, had established himself in an ample frame
house on King Street, the home of an owner of an iron furnace,
Stacy Potts, who was happy to have the colonel as his guest.
 
Johann Gottlieb Rall was a sturdy, able career soldier, and at age
fifty-six a senior among officers. The command at Trenton had been
conferred in recognition of his valor at White Plains and Fort
Washington. He was a man of limited imagination. He spoke little or
no English and had only contempt for the rebel army. His pleasures
were a game of cards, a good drink or two, and martial music, which
he relished to the point of absurdity, marching himself with his
military band at almost any excuse.
 
Rall would be roundly criticized later by some of his junior officers
for being lazy, lax, indifferent to the possibility of surprise attack, and
a drunkard. Captain Johann Ewald, as fair-minded as any Hessian
officer who served in America, later wrote that many who criticized
Rall after his death were not fit to have carried his sword.

Page 343
Page 343
Harassed by rebel patrols that kept coming over the Delaware,
Rall had established outposts beyond the town and insisted that
each night one company sleep with their muskets ready to be called
out at a moment’s notice, and they were called out, it seemed to
some, more often than necessary. If anything, the colonel was
thought to be too much on edge. (An officer complained in his diary,
“We have not slept one night in peace since we came to this place.”)
 
It was the size of the attack to come, and in such weather, that
Rall did not anticipate, and in this he was not alone.
 
Before departing for New York, General Howe had put James
Grant in overall command of the string of outposts in New Jersey.
Grant was at Brunswick, twenty-five miles from Trenton. On
December 24, he received “certain intelligence” that the rebels were
planning an attack on Trenton. While he did not think them “equal to
the attempt,” he alerted Rall, telling him to be on guard. Rall received
the message at five o’clock the afternoon of the 25th.
 
Not long after, a dozen Hessians on guard on the Pennington
Road beyond town were fired on in the dark by an American patrol,
which had quickly withdrawn. Rall himself rode out through the storm
to look things over and concluded that this was the attack he had
been warned about. On such a night, he assumed nothing more
would happen.
 
Later in the evening Rall attended a small Christmas gathering at
the home of a local merchant and was playing cards when,
reportedly, a servant interrupted to deliver still another warning
message that had been delivered to the door by an unknown
Loyalist, and this Rall is said to have thrust into his pocket.
 
It is not known what time he returned to his quarters or whether,
as later said, he had had too much to drink.
 
***

Page 344
Page 344
THE ATTACK BEGAN just after eight o’clock. The Americans
under Nathanael Greene came out of the woods and across a field
through driving snow about half a mile from town. They were moving
fast, at what was called a “long trot.” The Hessians on guard on the
Pennington Road had trouble at first making out who they were and
how many there were. “The storm continued with great violence,”
Henry Knox wrote, “but was in our backs, and consequently in the
faces of the enemy.”
 
The Americans opened fire. The Hessians waited for them to get
closer, then fired and began quickly, smoothly falling back into town,
exactly as they had been trained to do when retreat was the only
choice. Washington thought they performed particularly well keeping
up a steady retreating fire.
 
As Greene’s and Sullivan’s columns converged on the town,
Washington moved to high ground nearby on the north where he
tried to keep watch on what was happening.
 
His 2,400 Americans, having been on their feet all night, wet,
cold, their weapons soaked, went into the fight as if everything
depended on them. Each man “seemed to vie with the other in
pressing forward,” Washington wrote.
 
In town the Hessians came rushing out of their houses and
barracks into the streets. Drums beat, the band played, officers
shouted orders in German, and as fast as the Hessians began
forming up, Knox’s artillery were in position at the head of King and
Queen streets.
 
The cannon opened fire with deadly effect down hundreds of
yards on each street, and in minutes—“in the twinkling of an eye,”
Knox said—cleared the streets.

Page 345
Page 345
When the Hessians retreated into the side streets, they found
Sullivan’s men coming at them with fixed bayonets. For a brief time,
a thousand or more Americans and Hessians were locked in savage
house-to-house fighting.
 
It was all happening extremely fast, in wild confusion and swirling
snow made more blinding by clouds of gunpowder smoke. “The
storm of nature and the storm of the town,” wrote Nathanael Greene,
“exhibited a scene that filled the mind during the action with passions
easier conceived than described.”
 
When the Hessians rolled out a field gun midway on King Street,
a half dozen Virginians led by Captain William Washington (a distant
cousin of the commander) and Lieutenant James Monroe rushed
forward, seized it, and turned it on them.
 
Colonel Rall, who had been rousted from his bed and was quickly
on horseback and in command in the midst of the fray, ordered a
charge. Men were being hit all around him. The line faltered. He
ordered a retreat into an orchard at the southeast edge of town.
Then Rall, too, was hit and fell from his horse. Mortally wounded, he
was picked up and carried to the Potts house.
 
The Hessians in the orchard, finding themselves surrounded, lay
down their arms and surrendered.
 
It had all happened in forty-five minutes or less. Twenty-one
Hessians had been killed, 90 wounded. The prisoners taken
numbered approximately 900. Another 500 had managed to escape,
most of them by the bridge over Assunpink Creek.
 
Incredibly, in a battle of such extreme savagery, only four
Americans had been wounded, including Captain Washington and
Lieutenant Monroe, and not one American had been killed. The only
American fatalities were the two soldiers who had frozen to death
during the night on the road.

Page 346
Page 346
“After having marched off the prisoners and secured the cannon,
stores, etc.,” wrote Knox, “we returned to the place nine miles
distant, where we had embarked.” Thus after marching through the
night a second time, back to McKonkey’s ferry, the army crossed the
Delaware once again back to the Pennsylvania side of the river.
 
*** 
 
NOT SINCE TAKING COMMAND the summer of 1775 had
Washington ever addressed the army with such words of praise,
affection, and gratitude as he did in his general orders for the
following day, December 27. And never had he greater reason. It
had been their triumph, he wanted them to know.
 
“The general, with the utmost sincerity and affection, thanks the
officers and soldiers for their spirited and gallant behavior at Trenton
yesterday,” he began. “It is with inexpressible pleasure that he can
declare that he did not see a single instance of bad behavior in either
officers or privates.”
 
In appreciation of such “spirited behavior” he would see that all
who had “crossed the river” would receive, in cash, a proportionate
part of the total value of the cannon, arms, horses, and “everything
else” captured at Trenton.
 
Allegedly there had been some less-than-stellar behavior, which
either Washington did not see or chose to ignore given the spirit of
the moment. With the battle over, a number of soldiers reportedly
broke into the Hessian rum supply and got roaring drunk.
 
Far more, however, would be said later and repeated endlessly of
Hessians who supposedly, on the morning of the attack, were still
reeling drunk or in a stupor from having celebrated Christmas in the
Germanic tradition. But there is no evidence that any of them were
drunk. John Greenwood, who was in the thick of the fight, later

Page 347
Page 347
wrote, “I am willing to go upon oath that I did not see even a solitary
drunken soldier belonging to the enemy.”
 
Major James Wilkinson, the young officer who had been present
at the capture of General Lee and who also fought at Trenton and
later wrote an account of the battle, made no mention of anyone
being drunk.
 
What Wilkinson did record, memorably, was riding to Washington
with a message just after the Hessians had surrendered. “On my
approach,” he wrote, “the commander-in-chief took me by the hand
and observed, ‘Major Wilkinson, this is a glorious day for our
country.’ ”
 
They all felt something of the kind. They knew they had done
something big at last. “The troops behaved like men contending for
everything that was dear and valuable,” Knox wrote to Lucy.
Nathanael Greene told his wife, “This is an important period to
America, big with great events.”
 
Writing to Governor Trumbull earlier, Washington had prophesied
that some “lucky blow” would “rouse the spirits of the people,” but he
could hardly have imagined how stunning the effect of the news of
Trenton would be on the morale of the country.
 
In a matter of days, newspapers were filled with accounts of
Washington’s crossing of the Delaware, the night march and the
overwhelming success of the surprise attack, the numbers of
prisoners taken, the cannon, arms, swords, horses, even the number
of drums and trumpets from Colonel Rall’s military band. But fast
post riders and word of mouth spread the story more rapidly still.
 
John Adlum, the seventeen-year-old private from York,
Pennsylvania, who had been captured at Fort Washington and was
among the fortunate prisoners—mostly officers—confined to houses
in New York and allowed some freedom of movement, wrote later of

Page 348
Page 348
how he heard the news of Trenton. The owner of a grocery store had
pulled him into a back room and kept shaking his hand and trembling
with such emotion he was unable to speak.
 
“I looked at him and thought him crazy or mad,” Adlum wrote, “but
as soon as he could give utterance to his word he says to me,
‘General Washington has defeated the Hessians at Trenton this
morning and has taken 900 prisoners and six pieces of artillery!’ ”
 
I did not wait to hear anything more said, but dropped
the basket and ran out into the street and passed two
[British] sentinels that I had given the countersign on my
way to the store. Though they challenged me, I did not stop,
but ran as fast as I could to my quarters…. By the time I got
home I was quite out of breath and ran into the room where
the officers were sitting around the table. Several of them
asked what’s the matter, and as soon as I could recover
breath to speak I spoke with considerable emphasis:
“General Washington has defeated the Hessians at Trenton
this morning and has taken 900 prisoners and six pieces of
artillery.”
 
“Who told you so?”
 
I could not tell as I did not know the gentleman’s name,
but I told them it was where I purchased the groceries…. At
which some of theofficers laughed and asked me various
questions, while others did not say a word and looked very
serious, as if doubting the news, and others thought it too
good to be true.
 
Washington was extolled as he had been at Boston, as a hero
and savior. “It appears to us that your attack on Trenton was…[a]
success beyond expectation,” wrote Robert Morris from Philadelphia
on behalf of the Executive Committee of Congress, and this was
entirely befitting “a character which we admire and which we have

Page 349
Page 349
long wished to appear in the world with that brilliancy that success
always obtains and which members of Congress know you deserve.”
 
From Baltimore, addressing Washington on behalf of the entire
Congress, John Hancock said that the victory at Trenton was all the
more “extraordinary” given that it had been achieved by men “broken
by fatigue and ill-fortune.”
 
But troops properly inspired, and animated by a just
confidence in their leader will often exceed expectation, or
the limits of probability. As it is entirely to your wisdom and
conduct, the United States are indebted for the late success
of your arms.
 
To General James Grant, Howe’s commander of the New Jersey
outposts, and thus the one who bore the responsibility for what had
happened, Trenton was an “unlucky.”
“cursed” affair, quite beyond comprehension. “ ’Tis an infamous
business. I can not account for the misbehavior of the Hessians,”
Grant wrote to General Harvey. He had been sure, Grant told
Harvey, that the Hessians at Trenton were “as safe as you are in
London.”
 
How Colonel Rall could have failed to act upon the warning he
had been given was more than Grant could understand. But then
Rall had died of his wounds and would have no chance to speak in
his own defense.
 
In New York, William Howe responded to the news of Trenton by
taking immediate action. Cornwallis, his leave canceled, was ordered
to return at once to New Jersey with an army of 8,000.
 
*** 
 
WASHINGTON HAD BEEN WEIGHING his next move and
worrying over how possibly to keep his army together. His decision,

Page 350
Page 350
given the way events had turned and his own nature, was not
surprising. He would go after the enemy once again.
 
Thinking that Washington was still in New Jersey, General
Cadwalader, in a bold move, had crossed the Delaware downstream
at Bristol, and General Mifflin was joining him with more recruits.
 
On December 29, Washington, Greene, Sullivan, Knox, and their
troops were on the move, marching through a six-inch snowfall, to
cross the Delaware at McKonkey’s Ferry and nearby Yardley’s Ferry,
an undertaking that was as harrowing as the crossing of Christmas
night. At Yardley’s Ferry, where Greene’s troops crossed, the river
was iced over, just thick enough for the men to pick their way warily
across, but too thin for horses and cannon. At McKonkey’s, it was
only with the greatest difficulty that Washington and the rest were
able to get over. Amazingly, Knox and Glover succeeded this time in
transporting some 40 cannon and their horses, twice what had been
managed Christmas night.
 
At Trenton, Washington drew up his forces on a low ridge along
the south side of Assunpink Creek, with the Delaware on their left
flank, a patch of woods to the right. It was December 30. The
following day, the last day of 1776, he made a dramatic appeal to the
veteran troops of the Continental Army to stay with him.
 
Having no authority whatever to do so, he offered a bounty of ten
dollars for all who would stay another six months after their
enlistments expired that day—a considerable sum for men whose
pay was six dollars a month.
 
“I feel the inconvenience of this advance,” Washington would
later tell Congress. “But what was to be done?” To Robert Morris he
said more bluntly, “I thought it no time to stand on trifles.”
 
One of the soldiers would remember his regiment being called
into formation and His Excellency, astride a big horse, addressing

Page 351
Page 351
them “in the most affectionate manner.” The great majority of the
men were New Englanders who had served longer than any and
who had no illusions about what was being asked of them. Those
willing to stay were asked to step forward. Drums rolled, but no one
moved. Minutes passed. Then Washington “wheeled his horse
about” and spoke again.
 
“My brave fellows, you have done all I asked you to do, and more
than could be reasonably expected, but your country is at stake, your
wives, your houses, and all that you hold dear. You have worn
yourselves out with fatigues and hardships, but we know not how to
spare you. If you will consent to stay one month longer, you will
render that service to the cause of liberty, and to your country, which
you can probably never do under any other circumstance.”
 
Again the drums sounded and this time the men began stepping
forward. “God Almighty,” wrote Nathanael Greene, “inclined their
hearts to listen to the proposal and they engaged anew.”
 
In the last hours before New Year’s Day, Washington would learn
that on December 27, by the vote of Congress, he had been
authorized to “use every endeavor,” including bounties, “to prevail
upon the troops…to stay with the army….” Indeed, for a period of six
months the Congress at Baltimore had made him a virtual dictator.
 
“Happy it is for this country,” read part of the letter transmitting
the resolution, “that the general of their forces can safely be
entrusted with the most unlimited power, and neither personal
security, liberty, nor property be in the least degree endangered
thereby.”
 
In his letter of reply to the members of Congress, Washington
wrote:
 
Instead of thinking myself freed from all civil obligations
by this mark of their confidence, I shall constantly bear in

Page 352
Page 352
mind that as the sword was the last resort for the
preservation of our liberties, so it ought to be the first thing
laid aside when those liberties are firmly established.
 
“The year 1776 is over. I am heartily glad of it and I hope you nor
America will ever be plagued with such another,” Robert Morris wrote
to Washington on New Year’s Day. But the campaign was not over
just yet.
 
*** 
 
BY JANUARY 1, 1777, Cornwallis and his army had reached
Princeton. On January 2, Cornwallis left part of his force there, and
with 5,500 strong, set off down the road to Trenton, ten miles away.
 
There had been a sudden thaw and the mud of the road slowed
the march.
 
Colonel Edward Hand and the Pennsylvania riflemen sent to
check the enemy advance fought with deadly effect but could only
fall back against such a force. By dusk the Americans were
retreating back through Trenton, down Queen Street toward the
bridge over the Assunpink, and it was only Knox’s cannon from
across the creek that held the British at bay.
 
“The enemy pushed our small party through the town with vigor…
[then] advanced within reach of our cannon, who saluted them with
great vociferation and some execution,” Knox wrote. British artillery
answered and Cornwallis ordered three successive attacks on the
bridge, only to be driven back each time.
 
Dr. Benjamin Rush, who had arrived with Cadwalader’s brigades
to help establish a field hospital, wrote later of this his first direct
encounter with war. Indeed, Rush was one of the very few signers of
the Declaration of Independence yet to see the reality of the war
firsthand.

Page 353
Page 353
The American army retired and left the British in
possession of Trenton. The scene which accompanied and
followed this combat was new to me. The first wounded
man that came off the field was a New England soldier. His
right hand hung a little above his wrist by nothing but a
piece of skin. It had been broken by a cannon ball. I took
charge of him and directed him to a house on the river
which had been appropriated for a hospital. In the evening
all the wounded, about 20 in number, were brought to this
hospital and dressed by Dr. [John] Cochran, myself, and
several young surgeons who acted under our direction. We
all lay down on some straw in the same room with our
wounded patients. It was now for the first time war
appeared to me in its awful plenitude of horrors. I want
words to describe the anguish of my soul, excited by the
cries and groans and convulsions of the men who lay by my
side.
 
In the last light of day Cornwallis and his commanders had
convened to decide whether to carry the attack across the Assunpink
still again, or to wait for daylight. “If Washington is the general I take
him to be,” one of them, Sir William Erskine, is alleged to have
commented, “he will not be found in the morning.” Cornwallis is said
to have replied that they would “bag him” in the morning.
 
It was an understandable decision. Night attacks could be
extremely costly and there seemed no reason not to wait.
 
The British engineer Captain Archibald Robertson thought the
Americans had positioned themselves extremely well. “We…durst
not attack them,” Robertson recorded in his diary. “They were exactly
in the position Rall should have taken when he was attacked, from
which he might have retreated towards Borden’s Town [downstream
on the Delaware] with very little loss.”

Page 354
Page 354
It had turned cold again. The British troops slept that night on the
frozen ground and without campfires in order to keep watch on the
rebels and their fires across the creek.
 
But when morning came, the Americans were gone. Leaving a
small force to keep the fires burning and make the appropriate
noises of an army settling in for the night, Washington and some
5,500 men, horses, and cannon had stolen away in the dark. But
instead of heading south to Bordentown as would be expected, he
struck off on a wide, daring sweep on little-known back roads to
attack Cornwallis’s rear guard at Princeton.
 
They marched east to Sandtown, then north-northeast to Quaker
Bridge by mud roads frozen as hard as rock. Fields along the way
were covered with hoarfrost, and with a few dim stars overhead the
night was not as dark as it might have been. But for men with scant
clothing and broken shoes, or no shoes, it was again an extreme
ordeal.
 
Washington’s plan, as at Trenton, was again to divide his force,
with Greene’s column going off to the left, Sullivan’s column to the
right.
 
The battle broke out at sunrise, Friday, January 3, when Greene’s
vanguard and British forces ran into each other by chance two miles
out from Princeton. General Hugh Mercer with several hundred men
went off to the left to destroy a bridge on the King’s Highway, to stop
any enemy retreat from the town in that direction. Mercer and his
men arrived just as the British commander at Princeton, Colonel
Charles Mawhood, and two regiments were setting off from
Princeton to join Cornwallis at Trenton.
 
For the British the appearance of the Americans at that hour and
in such numbers was totally unexpected. “They could not possibly
suppose it was our army, for that, they took for granted, was cooped
up near Trenton,” Knox would write. “I believe they were as much

Page 355
Page 355
astonished as if an army had dropped perpendicularly upon them.
However, they had not much time for consideration.”
 
Both sides opened fire, and in a battle that quickly escalated on
the sweeping open fields and orchard of William Clarke’s farm, the
fighting turned as furious as any of the war, the dead and bleeding
strewn everywhere.
 
Mercer, who had dismounted when his horse was hit in the midst
of a British bayonet attack, fought with his sword until he was
clubbed to the ground, then bayoneted repeatedly—bayoneted
seven times—and left for dead. Colonel John Haslet, who tried to
rally the brigade, was killed instantly by a bullet in the head.
 
More Americans rushed forward, many of them Pennsylvania
militia with little or no training, who refused to yield, as Washington,
Greene, and Cadwalader rode among them to lead the way. The
sight of Washington set an example of courage such as he had
never seen, wrote one young officer afterward. “I shall never forget
what I felt…when I saw him brave all the dangers of the field and his
important life hanging as it were by a single hair with a thousand
deaths flying around him. Believe me, I thought not of myself.”
 
“Parade with us, my brave fellows,” Washington is said to have
called out to them. “There is but a handful of the enemy, and we will
have them directly!”
 
More Americans descended on the enemy’s flanks and Mawhood
and his redcoats were soon in full flight toward Trenton. (“A
resolution was taken to retreat,” remembered one of Mawhood’s
junior officers, “i.e., run away as fast as we could.”) Washington,
unable to resist, spurred his horse and took after them, shouting, “It’s
a fine fox chase, my boys!”
 
The ferocious battle on the Clarke farm, the deciding action of the
day, had lasted all of fifteen minutes.

Page 356
Page 356
By the time Washington had reigned in his horse and called off
the pursuit, another part of the army had entered the town, where
some 200 of the British garrisoned there had barricaded themselves
inside the large stone main building of the college, Nassau Hall.
When Captain Alexander Hamilton and his artillerymen fired a few
rounds into the building, the redcoats gave up.
 
The American dead numbered 23, including Colonel Haslet and
General Mercer, who suffered nine days before dying of his wounds.
Mercer, a doctor and pharmacist in civilian life who came from
Fredericksburg, Virginia, not far from Mount Vernon, had been a
favorite of Washington’s.
 
But losses were greater in British dead and wounded, and the
Americans had taken three hundred prisoners. The British, though
greatly outnumbered, had put up a fierce fight. But for Washington
and the army it was another stunning, unexpected victory.
 
Washington’s impulse was to push on to Brunswick, to destroy
enemy supplies there and capture a British pay chest of 70,000
pounds, and thereby, he speculated, end the war. But his exhausted
army was in no shape for another forced march of nineteen miles or
another battle, and Greene, Knox, and others talked him out of it,
warning of the danger of losing all they had gained “by aiming at too
much.”
 
Thus, the army marched north to Somerset Courthouse and, in
the days that followed, on to the comparative security of the hilly,
wooded country near the village of Morristown for the duration of the
winter.
 
*** 
 
THE CAMPAIGN OF 1776 had ended with a second astonishing
victory. Had Washington been born in the days of idolatry, declared

Page 357
Page 357
the Pennsylvania Journal, he would be worshiped as a god. “If there
are spots on his character, they are like the spots on the sun, only
discernible by the magnifying powers of a telescope.”
 
As Nathanael Greene wrote to Thomas Paine, “The two late
actions at Trenton and Princeton have put a very different face upon
affairs.”
 
But as thrilling as the news of Princeton was for the country,
coming so quickly after the triumph at Trenton, it was Trenton that
meant the most, Trenton and the night crossing of the Delaware that
were rightly seen as a great turning point. With the victory at Trenton
came the realization that Americans had bested the enemy, bested
the fearsome Hessians, the King’s detested hirelings, outsmarted
them and outfought them, and so might well again.
 
Among some of the British command, and some skeptical
Americans, what happened at Trenton was seen as only a minor
defeat, an aggravating affair, but of no great consequence when
compared to such large-scale British victories of 1776 as the Battle
of Brooklyn or the taking of Fort Washington. Trenton was a
“skirmish,” an “engagement,” not a battle.
 
But some on the British side grudgingly conceded that the
“rabble” must henceforth be regarded with new respect. Colonel
William Harcourt, the cavalry officer who had led the capture of
Charles Lee, wrote in a letter to his father that though the Americans
remained ignorant of military order and large-scale maneuver, they
had shown themselves capable of great cunning, great industry, and
spirit of enterprise. And while it had been “the fashion in this army to
treat them in the most contemptible light, they are now become a
formidable enemy.”
 
Measured by the size of its importance to those fighting for the
Cause of America, those everywhere in the country who saw
Washington and his army as the one means of deliverance of

Page 358
Page 358
American independence and all that was promised by the
Declaration of Independence, Trenton was the first great cause for
hope, a brave and truly “brilliant” stroke.
 
From the last week of August to the last week of December, the
year 1776 had been as dark a time as those devoted to the
American cause had ever known—indeed, as dark a time as any in
the history of the country. And suddenly, miraculously it seemed, that
had changed because of a small band of determined men and their
leader.
 
A century later, Sir George Otto Trevelyan would write in a classic
study of the American Revolution, “It may be doubted whether so
small a number of men ever employed so short a space of time with
greater and more lasting effects upon the history of the world.”
 
Closer to the moment, Abigail Adams wrote to her friend Mercy
Otis Warren, “I am apt to think that our later misfortunes have called
out the hidden excellencies of our commander-in-chief.”
“ ‘Affliction is the good man’s shining time,’ ” she wrote, quoting a
favorite line from the English poet Edward Young.
 
Mercy Warren, the wife of James Warren and an author, would
write in her own history of the American Revolution that there were
perhaps “no people on earth in whom a spirit of enthusiastic zeal is
so readily kindled, and burns so remarkably, as among Americans.”
 
The energetic operation of this sanguine temper was
never more remarkably exhibited than in the change
instantaneously wrought in the minds of men, by the
capture of Trenton at so unexpected a moment. From the
state of mind bordering on despair, courage was
invigorated, every countenance brightened.
 
***

Page 359
Page 359
WITH THE NEW YEAR, news arrived from England that on
October 31 in London, His Majesty King George III had once again
ridden in splendor from St. James’s Palace to Westminster to
address the opening of Parliament on the still-distressing war in
America.
 
Nothing could have afforded me so much satisfaction
[said the King] as to have been able to inform you…that my
unhappy people [in America], recovered from their delusion,
had delivered themselves from the oppression of their
leaders and returned to their duty. But so daring and
desperate is the spirit of those leaders, whose object has
always been dominion and power, that they have now
openly renounced all allegiance to the Crown, and all
political connection with this country…and have presumed
to set up their rebellious confederacies for independent
states. If their treason be suffered to take root, much
mischief must grow from it.
 
Another military campaign would be undertaken in America.
 
The same Whig leaders in Parliament spoke out as they had
before, ardently denouncing the “wicked war.” Lord Germain, in
response, said the army in America would be reinforced. And as it
had before, in what seemed the long-ago October of 1775, the
Parliament approved the King’s policy by an overwhelming margin.
 
When, in March 1777, the news of Trenton reached England, it
was said (in the London General Evening Post and elsewhere) that
the defeat of the Hessians, while “disagreeable,” was “more than
counter-balanced” by the capture of General Lee. Lord Germain saw
at once that the importance of the news was the effect it would have
on American opinion. Still, he had no doubt that the rebel army was
all but finished.

Page 360
Page 360
In New Jersey the fighting would continue sporadically as winter
wore on. The war itself would continue, endlessly it seemed to many.
In all, it would be another six and a half years before the Treaty of
Paris ending the war was signed in 1783.
 
Some who had been with the army and Washington at the
beginning, like Joseph Hodgkins, would serve several more years
before deciding they had done their duty. Some, like Private Joseph
Martin, would serve to the end.
 
In the campaign in the South that set the stage for the last major
battle, at Yorktown, Virginia, Nathanael Greene would prove the
most brilliant American field commander of the war. Washington felt
that if anything were to happen to him—were Washington to be
captured or killed—Greene should become the commander-in-chief.
 
Of all the general officers who had taken part in the Siege of
Boston, only two were still serving at the time of the British surrender
at Yorktown, Washington and Greene. Henry Knox, who had become
a brigadier general after the Battle of Trenton, and who fought in
every battle in which Washington took part, was also present at
Yorktown. Greene and Knox, the two young untried New Englanders
Washington had singled out at the beginning as the best of the “raw
material” he had to work with, had both shown true greatness and
stayed in the fight to the finish.
 
Financial support from France and the Netherlands, and military
support from the French army and navy, would play a large part in
the outcome. But in the last analysis it was Washington and the army
that won the war for American independence. The fate of the war
and the revolution rested on the army. The Continental Army—not
the Hudson River or the possession of New York or Philadelphia—
was the key to victory. And it was Washington who held the army
together and gave it “spirit” through the most desperate of times.

Page 361
Page 361
He was not a brilliant strategist or tactician, not a gifted orator, not
an intellectual. At several crucial moments he had shown marked
indecisiveness. He had made serious mistakes in judgment. But
experience had been his great teacher from boyhood, and in this his
greatest test, he learned steadily from experience. Above all,
Washington never forgot what was at stake and he never gave up.
 
Again and again, in letters to Congress and to his officers, and in
his general orders, he had called for perseverance—for
“perseverance and spirit,” for “patience and perseverance,” for
“unremitting courage and perseverance.” Soon after the victories of
Trenton and Princeton, he had written: “A people unused to restraint
must be led, they will not be drove.” Without Washington’s leadership
and unrelenting perseverance, the revolution almost certainly would
have failed. As Nathanael Greene foresaw as the war went on, “He
will be the deliverer of his own country.”
 
The war was a longer, far more arduous, and more painful
struggle than later generations would understand or sufficiently
appreciate. By the time it ended, it had taken the lives of an
estimated 25,000 Americans, or roughly 1 percent of the population.
In percentage of lives lost, it was the most costly war in American
history, except for the Civil War.
 
The year 1776, celebrated as the birth year of the nation and for
the signing of the Declaration of Independence, was for those who
carried the fight for independence forward a year of all-too-few
victories, of sustained suffering, disease, hunger, desertion,
cowardice, disillusionment, defeat, terrible discouragement, and fear,
as they would never forget, but also of phenomenal courage and
bedrock devotion to country, and that, too, they would never forget.
 
Especially for those who had been with Washington and who
knew what a close call it was at the beginning—how often
circumstance, storms, contrary winds, the oddities or strengths of

Page 362
Page 362
individual character had made the difference—the outcome seemed
little short of a miracle.

Page 363
Page 363
Acknowledgments
Contents - Prev / Next
 
 
MATERIAL FOR THIS BOOK has been gathered at more than
twenty-five libraries, archives, special collections, and historic sites
here in the United States, and in the United Kingdom, at the British
Library and the National Archives. I am greatly indebted to the staffs
of all of them and wish to thank the following in particular for their
many courtesies and help:
 
William Fowler, Peter Drummey, Brenda Lawson, and Anne
Bentley of the Massachusetts Historical Society; Philander Chase,
Frank Grizzard, Jr., and Edward Lengel, editors of The Papers of
George Washington at the University of Virginia; James C. Rees,
Carol Borchert Cadou, Linda Ayres, and Barbara McMillan of Mount
Vernon; Gerard Gawalt, Jeffrey Flannery, James Hutson, Edward
Redmond, and Michael Klein of the Library of Congress; Richard
Peuser of the National Archives; John C. Dann, Brian Leigh
Dunnigan, Barbara DeWolfe, and Clayton Lewis of the William L.
Clements Library, Ann Arbor, Michigan; Jack Bales, Roy Strohl, and
Tim Newman of the Simpson Library, University of Mary Washington;
Ellen McCallister Clark, Jack D. Warren, Sandra L. Powers, Lauren
Gish, and Emily Schulz of the Society of the Cincinnati, Washington,
D.C.; Andrea Ashby-Leraris of Independence National Historic Park,
Philadelphia; Roy Goodman and Robert Cox of the American
Philosophical Society, Philadelphia; David Fowler, Greg Johnson,
and Kathy Ludwig of the David Library of the American Revolution,
Washington Crossing, Pennsylvania; Michael Bertheaud of the
Washington Crossing Historic Park; Cathy Hellier and John Hill of
Colonial Williamsburg; James Shea and Anita Israel of the Henry
Wadsworth Longfellow House, Cambridge, Massachusetts; Vincent

Page 364
Page 364
Golden of the American Antiquarian Society, Worcester,
Massachusetts; Jan Hilley and Ted O’Reilly of the New-York
Historical Society; Leslie Fields of the Pierpont Morgan Library, New
York; Rick Statler of the Rhode Island Historical Society; Greg and
Mary Mierka of the Nathanael Greene Homestead, Coventry, Rhode
Island; Martin Clayton, the King’s Map Collection, Windsor Castle;
Mr. and Mrs. Oliver Russell, Ballindalloch Castle, Banffshire,
Scotland; Bryson Clevenger, Jr., of the Alderman Library, University
of Virginia; Helen Cooper of the Yale University Art Gallery; and Eric
P. Frazier of the Boston Public Library.
 
Peter Drummey, the incomparably knowledgeable Librarian of the
Massachusetts Historical Society, and Major General Josiah Bunting
III, soldier, scholar, author, and generous friend, were good enough
to read the manuscript and offer valuable suggestions. And so, too,
was Philander Chase, senior editor of The Papers of George
Washington, whose insights into the life and character of Washington
and close reading of and comments on the manuscript helped
immeasurably.
 
Sean P. Hennessey and his associates at the National Park
Service in Charlestown, Massachusetts, gave me a superb tour of
Bunker Hill and Dorchester Heights; Martin Maher of the New York
City Parks Department took me the length and breadth of Brooklyn
on a memorable all-day survey of the events that took place there
August 27, 1776; and on another expedition, John Mills,
superintendent of the Princeton Battlefield State Park, guided me
along the route of the famous night march to Trenton, beginning at
the point where Washington and the army crossed the Delaware,
then through the battles of both Trenton and Princeton. For their
time, their illuminating commentary and infectious enthusiasm for
their subjects, I thank them all.
 
For the privilege of visiting the birthplace of Nathanael Greene at
East Greenwich, Rhode Island, I am ever grateful to its present

Page 365
Page 365
owner, Thomas Casey Greene, who, as a direct descendant, knows
much about the general not to be found in the usual texts.
 
Over the years I have benefited repeatedly from the friendship
and the insights of historians Richard Ketchum, Thomas Fleming,
Don Higginbotham, and David Hackett Fischer, each the author of
landmark works on the Revolutionary War.
 
For their interest and a great variety of thoughtful suggestions
and favors, I thank William Paul Deary, Philip A. Forbes, Wendell
Garrett, Richard Gilder, J. Craig Huff, Jr., Father Michael Greene,
Tim Greene, Daniel P. Jordan, Michael Kammen, Ravi Khanna,
William Martin, Sally O’Brien, Doug Smith, Matthew Stackpole,
Renny A. Stackpole, Clarence Wolf, and John Zentay.
 
Thomas J. McGuire has read so much about the realities of
soldiering in the Revolution that it is almost as though he fought in it
himself. He was a great help from the start of my efforts, supplying a
wealth of material from his own wide-ranging research and abundant
knowledge.
 
Gayle Mone helped with correspondence, typed the manuscript,
and assisted superbly and tirelessly in the work of the Bibliography
and Source Notes.
 
Mike Hill, my research assistant on this and previous books, has
been a mainstay. His expertise and enterprise, his amazing stamina
and unfailing good cheer, are beyond compare.
 
Again, I proudly acknowledge the parts played by my editor
Michael Korda and my literary agent, Morton L. Janklow. I am ever
grateful for their support and counsel, not to say the pleasure of their
company. And again I thank my lucky stars for copy editors Gypsy
da Silva and Fred Wiemer, for Amy Hill, who designed the book, and
Wendell Minor, who designed the jacket. I think it is no exaggeration
to say they are the best in the business.

Page 366
Page 366
As always, I thank my family, who know how much help and
support they have given me and how much I appreciate all they have
done.
 
To my wife Rosalee, to whom the book is dedicated, I owe the
most by far. She is editor-in-chief. Her spirit never flags. She holds a
steady course in all seasons.
 
David McCullough
West Tisbury, Massachusetts
November 29, 2004

Page 367
Page 367
Bibliography
Contents - Prev / Next

Page 368
Page 368
A Note on Sources
 
For a year of such momentous events and historic consequence
as 1776, source material dating from the time is appropriately
voluminous. The primary sources I have drawn on—the letters,
diaries, memoirs, maps, orderly books, newspaper accounts, and the
like—are listed in the bibliography. But those of the utmost
importance have been the letters of George Washington, Nathanael
Greene, Henry Knox, Joseph Reed, and Joseph Hodgkins. That
these men found the time, and energy, to write all that they did, given
the circumstances, is a wonder, and ought to be acknowledged as
another of their great services to their country. Washington, in the
time covered by this narrative, from July of 1775 to the first week of
1777, wrote no fewer than 947 letters!
 
On the British side, the letters of the irrepressibly opinionated
James Grant were also a particularly rich and welcome source.
Privately held at Ballindalloch Castle in Scotland, the ancestral home
of the Grants, the papers are now available on microfilm at the
Library of Congress.
 
Of the more than seventy diaries I have consulted, much the
most valuable have been those of Jabez Fitch, James Thacher,
Philip V. Fithian, Ambrose Serle, Archibald Robertson, Frederick
Mackenzie, and Johann Ewald. Of the memoirs, those of Alexander
Graydon, Joseph Plumb Martin, and John Greenwood are
outstanding.
 
I have drawn a great deal also from three of the earliest histories
of the Revolutionary War, all published in the last decade of the
eighteenth century, when memories were still relatively fresh and
many of the principals were still alive.The History of the American
Revolution by David Ramsay andThe History of the Rise, Progress,
and Establishment of the Independence of the United States of
America by William Gordon are both the works of Americans.
(Ramsay was a physician from South Carolina; Gordon, a

Page 369
Page 369
Massachusetts clergyman.) The third is the first full account by an
Englishman and by someone who actually fought in the war:The
History of the Origin, Progress, and Termination of the American War
by Charles Stedman.
 
In addition, I have relied on a number of exceptional secondary
works on the war overall:Angel in the Whirlwind by Benson
Bobrick;The War for America, 1775–1783 by Piers Mackesy;The
Glorious Cause by Robert Middlekauff;A Revolutionary People at
War by Charles Royster; andA People Numerous and Armed by
John Shy.
 
Christopher Ward’s two-volumeThe War of the Revolution,
published more than fifty years ago, remains an excellent military
study. Don Higginbotham’sThe War of American Independence is
masterful, clear, and balanced. (Its bibliographical essay is especially
valuable.) And the grand old multivolume classic,The American
Revolution by Sir George Otto Trevelyan, first published in 1899, is a
joy for the prose alone, but also filled with illuminating observations
and details to be found almost nowhere else.
 
Of the books on the war in 1776, four are first-rate and
essential:Washington’s Crossing by David Hackett Fischer;1776:
Year of Illusions by Thomas Fleming;The Year That Tried Men’s
Souls by Merritt Ierly; andThe Winter Soldiers by Richard M.
Ketchum. And four skillfully edited anthologies of the letters and
reminiscences of many who played a part in the war, both American
and British, have been mainstays:The Spirit of ’Seventy-Six, in two
volumes, edited by Henry Steele Commager and Richard B.
Morris;The Revolution Remembered, edited by John C. Dann;Rebels
and Redcoats, edited by George F. Scheer and Hugh F. Rankin;
andLetters on the American Revolution, 1774–1776, edited by
Margaret Wheeler Willard.
 
One of the early surprises of my research was to find how very
much material there is on the Siege of Boston. (I could readily have

Page 370
Page 370
focused on that alone.) Yet for some strange reason, it is a subject
that has been largely overlooked by historians for years. The one
book of consequence,The First Year of the American Revolution by
Allen French, was published in 1934. But it is an expert study, and in
combination with Mr. French’s extensive notes, on file at the
Massachusetts Historical Society, it has been invaluable.
 
For the war in New York, the best accounts areUnder the Guns
andBattle for Manhattan, both by Bruce Bliven, Jr.;The Battle of Long
Island by Eric I. Manders;The Battle of Brooklyn, 1776 by John J.
Gallagher; andThe Battle for New York by Barnet Schecter. The
earliest scholarly work,The Campaign of 1776 Around New York and
Brooklyn, written by Henry P. Johnston and published by the Long
Island Historical Society in 1878, has been indispensable.
 
The best study of the Siege of Fort Washington is “Toward
Disaster at Fort Washington,” by William Paul Deary, an unpublished
dissertation submitted to the Columbian School of Arts and
Sciences, George Washington University, in 1996.
 
Of the books devoted to the campaign in New Jersey, I have
drawn from the first serious work on the subject, William S.
Stryker’sBattles of Trenton and Princeton, published in 1898, as well
as Arthur S. Lefkowitz’s more conciseThe Long Retreat, published in
1998;The Campaign of Princeton, 1776–1777 by Alfred Hoyt Bill;
andThe Day Is Ours by William M. Dwyer.
 
The biographies that have been of continuous value throughout
my work include first and foremost Douglas Southall
Freeman’sGeorge Washington, and especially volumes III and IV.
Though a bit old-fashioned in manner, Freeman’sWashington still
stands second only toThe Papers of George Washington in its
comprehensive treatment of Washington’s leading part in the war
and in its plenitude of exceptional footnotes.

Page 371
Page 371
Other biographies repeatedly consulted areGeorge III: A
Personal History by Christopher Hibbert; Theodore
Thayer’sNathanael Greene; The Life of Nathanael Greene by
George Washington Greene; North Callahan’sHenry Knox; John
Richard Alden’sGeneral Charles Lee; General John Glover and His
Marblehead Mariners by George Athan Billias; William B. Willcox’s
insightful study of Sir Henry Clinton,Portrait of a General; The Howe
Brothers and the American Revolution by Ira D. Gruber;The
Command of the Howe Brothers During the American Revolution by
Troyer Steele Anderson; andCornwallis: The American Adventure by
Franklin and Mary Wickwire.
 
The American Rebellion,another mainstay, is Sir Henry Clinton’s
own narrative of his campaigns, edited by William B. Willcox.
 
And, like all who write about the Revolutionary War, I am
everlastingly indebted toThe Iconography of Manhattan Island,
1498–1909 by I. N. Phelps Stokes,American Archives by Peter
Force, and theEncyclopedia of the American Revolution by Mark
Mayo Boatner III.
 
I have, as well, referred repeatedly to portraits by John Trumbull,
most of whose works are at the Yale University Art Gallery, and by
Charles Willson Peale, particularly those at the National
Independence Park in Philadelphia. In the works of these two great
painters, both of whom served in the war, we see not only the faces
of the protagonists on the American side but a delineation of
character.
 
Finally, I must include five historic houses that figure in the story:
 
The old white-frame homestead at East Greenwich, Rhode
Island, where Nathanael Greene was born and raised, still stands
and still belongs to the Greene family. Its treasures include the
cradle Nathanael Greene was rocked in, numbers of his books, and
even the musket he bought from a British deserter before marching

Page 372
Page 372
off to war. The handsome, foursquare house Greene built shortly
before he was married also still stands at Covington, Rhode Island,
near the site of his iron foundry.
 
Mount Vernon, Washington’s home in Virginia, is in many ways
the autobiography that Washington never wrote, in all that it tells us
about him. Then there are two that served as his headquarters
during the course of 1776, the magnificent Longfellow House, as it
has long been known, on Brattle Street in Cambridge, and the
Morris-Jumel Mansion on Jumel Terrace in New York City, off 160th
Street. With the exception of the Greene homestead at East
Greenwich, all of these great houses are open to the public, and in
their way their old walls can truly talk.

Page 373
Page 373
Manuscript Collections
 
American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Mass.
 
Newspaper, manuscript, and broadside collections
 
American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia

Page 374
Page 374
Nathan Sellers Journal

Page 375
Page 375
Boston Public Library
 
Clements Library, Ann Arbor, Mich.

Page 376
Page 376
Loftus Cliffe Papers

Page 377
Page 377
Henry Clinton Papers
 
James S. Schoff Revolutionary War Collection
 
Colonial Williamsburg Reference Library, Williamsburg, Va.
 
Harvard University Archives, Cambridge, Mass.

Page 378
Page 378
John Winthrop Papers
 
Historical Society of Delaware, Wilmington
 
Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia

Page 379
Page 379
Edward Hand Papers
 
Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.

Page 380
Page 380
Peter Force Archives

Page 381
Page 381
Geography and Map Division

Page 382
Page 382
James Grant Papers

Page 383
Page 383
Consider Tiffany Papers

Page 384
Page 384
George Washington Papers
 
Longfellow House National Historic Site, Cambridge, Mass.
 
George Washington Papers and Park Service Archives
 
Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston

Page 385
Page 385
John Adams Papers

Page 386
Page 386
Reverend Samuel Cooper Diary

Page 387
Page 387
Allen French Papers

Page 388
Page 388
Richard Frothingham Papers

Page 389
Page 389
Henry Knox Diary

Page 390
Page 390
Timothy Pickering Papers

Page 391
Page 391
Samuel Shaw Papers

Page 392
Page 392
William Tudor Papers

Page 393
Page 393
Lieutenant Richard Williams Papers
 
Hannah Winthrop and Mercy Warren Correspondence
 
Mount Vernon Department of Collections, Mount Vernon, Va.
 
Museum of the City of New York Archives
 
National Archives, Washington, D.C.

Page 394
Page 394
Revolutionary Pension Records
 
New-York Historical Society, New York City
 
William Alexander, Lord Stirling, Correspondence

Page 395
Page 395
Lachlan Campbell Journal

Page 396
Page 396
William Duer Papers

Page 397
Page 397
Nathan Eells Papers
 
Henry Knox Papers (Gilder-Lehrman Collection)

Page 398
Page 398
Alexander McDougall Papers

Page 399
Page 399
Solomon Nash Journal

Page 400
Page 400
Joseph Reed Papers
 
Pierpont Morgan Library, New York City

Page 401
Page 401
John Trumbull Papers
 
Public Records Office, Kew Gardens, London

Page 402
Page 402
Lord William Howe Papers

Page 403
Page 403
Loyalist Claims Records

Page 404
Page 404
Sir George Osborn Papers
 
Rhode Island Historical Society, Providence

Page 405
Page 405
Thomas Foster Papers

Page 406
Page 406
Nathanael Greene Papers

Page 407
Page 407
Captain Stephen Olney Papers
 
Society of Cincinnati, Washington, D.C.
 
Manuscript, Map, and Graphic Material Collections
 
Yale University Art Gallery, New Haven, Conn.

Page 408
Page 408
Books
 
Abbott, W. W., ed.The Papers of George Washington, Colonial
Series. Vol. I. Charlottesville: University Press of Virginia, 1983.
 
Adair, Douglass, and John A. Schutz, eds.Peter Oliver’s “Origin
and Progress of the American Rebellion: A Tory View.” San Marino,
Calif.: Huntington Library, 1961.
 
Adams, Charles Francis, ed.The Works of John Adams. Vols. III,
IX. Boston: Little, Brown, 1856.
 
Adams, Hannah.A Summary History of New-England: From the
First Settlement at Plymouth to the Acceptance of the Federal
Constitution, Comprehending a General Sketch of the American War.
Dedham, Mass.: H. Mann & J. H. Adams, 1799.
 
Adams, Randolph G.Sir Henry Clinton Maps: British
Headquarters Maps and Sketches. Ann Arbor, Mich.: William L.
Clements Library, 1928.
 
Alden, John R.General Charles Lee: Traitor or Patriot? Baton
Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1951.
 
———.A History of the American Revolution. New York: Knopf,
1969.
 
The American Revolution in New York: Its Political, Social, and
Economic Significance.(Prepared by the Division of Archives and
History) Albany: University of the State of New York, 1926.
 
Anderson, Fred.Crucible of War: The Seven Years’ War and the
Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754–1766. New York:
Knopf, 2000.

Page 409
Page 409
Anderson, Troyer Steele.The Command of the Howe Brothers
During the American Revolution. New York and London: Oxford
University Press, 1936.
 
Andrews, John.History of the War with America, France, Spain,
and Holland. Vol. II. London: John Fielding, 1785–1786.
 
The Annual Register; or, A View of the History, Politics, and
Literature for the Year 1775.London: Printed for J. Dodsley, 1776.
 
Arch, Nigel, and Joanna Marschner.Splendour at Court: Dressing
for Royal Occasions Since 1700. London and Sydney: Unwin
Hyman, 1987.
 
Atwood, Rodney.The Hessians: Mercenaries from Hessen-Kassel
in the American Revolution. Cambridge, Eng.: Cambridge University
Press, 1980.
 
Bailyn, Bernard.Faces of Revolution: Personalities and Themes
in the Struggle for American Independence. New York: Knopf, 1990.
 
Bakeless, John.Turncoats, Traitors, and Heroes. Philadelphia: J.
B. Lippincott, 1959.
 
Balch, Thomas, ed.Papers Relating Chiefly to the Maryland Line
During the Revolution. Philadelphia: Printed for the Seventy-Six
Society, 1857.
 
Bancroft, George.History of the United States. Vol. IX. Boston:
Little, Brown, 1866.
 
Barck, Oscar Theodore, Jr.New York City During the War for
Independence. New York: Columbia University Press, 1931.
 
Barnum, H. L.The Spy Unmasked; or, Memoirs of Enoch Crosby.
Harrison, N.Y.: Harbor Hill Books, 1975.

Page 410
Page 410
Beatson, Robert.Naval and Military Memoirs of Great Britain from
1727 to 1783. Vol. VI. Boston: Gregg Press, 1972.
 
Becker, John.The Sexagenary; or, Reminiscences of the
American Revolution. Albany, N.Y.: J. Munsell, 1866.
 
Berger, Joseph, and Dorothy Berger, eds.Diary of America. New
York: Simon & Schuster, 1957.
 
Bill, Alfred Hoyt.The Campaign of Princeton: 1776–1777.
Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1948.
 
Billias, George Athan.General John Glover and His Marblehead
Mariners. New York: Henry Holt, 1960.
 
———.George Washington’s Generals. New York: Morrow, 1964.
 
Black, Jeremy.Pitt the Elder: The Great Commoner.
Gloucestershire, Eng.: Sutton Publishing, 1999.
 
Blakeslee, Katherine Walton.Mordecai Gist and His American
Progenitors. Baltimore: Daughters of the American Revolution, 1923.
 
Bliven, Bruce, Jr.Battle for Manhattan. New York: Holt, 1955.
 
———.Under the Guns: New York, 1775–1776. New York:
Harper & Row, 1972.
 
Blumenthal, Walter Hart.Women Camp Followers of the
American Revolution. Philadelphia: George S. MacManus Co., 1952.
 
Bobrick, Benson.Angel in the Whirlwind: The Triumph of the
American Revolution. New York: Simon & Schuster, 1997.

Page 411
Page 411
Bolton, Charles Knowles, ed.Letters of Hugh Earl Percy from
Boston and New York: 1774–1776. Boston: Gregg Press, 1972.
 
———.The Private Soldier Under Washington. Port Washington,
N.Y.: Kennikat Press, 1964.
 
Bowman, Allen.The Morale of the American Revolutionary Army.
Washington, D.C.: American Council on Public Affairs, 1943.
 
Bowne, William L.Ye Cohorn Caravan: The Knox Expedition in
the Winter of 1775–76. Schuylerville, N.Y.: NaPaul Publishers, 1975.
 
Bridenbaugh, Carl.Cities in Revolt: Urban Life in America, 1743–
1776. New York: Knopf, 1955.
 
Brooke, John.King George III. London: Constable, 1972.
 
Brookhiser, Richard.Founding Father. New York: Free Press,
1996.
 
Brooks, Noah.Henry Knox: A Soldier of the Revolution: 1750–
1806. New York and London: Putnam, 1900.
 
Brooks, Victor:The Boston Campaign: April 1775–March 1776.
Conshohocken, Pa.: Combined Publishing, 1999.
 
Buckley, Gail.American Patriots: The Story of Blacks in the
Military from the Revolution to Desert Storm. New York: Random
House, 2001.
 
Buel, Joy Day, and Richard Buel, Jr.The Way of Duty: A Woman
and Her Family in Revolutionary America. New York: Norton, 1984.
 
Burgoyne, Bruce E., ed.Enemy Views: The American
Revolutionary War as Recorded by the Hessian Participants. Bowie,
Md.: Heritage Books, 1996.

Page 412
Page 412
———.The Hesse-Cassel Mirbach Regiment in the American
Revolution. Bowie, Md.: Heritage Books, 1998.
 
Burke, Edmund.The Correspondence. Vol. III.July 1774–June
1778. Cambridge, Eng.: Cambridge University Press, 1961.
 
Burnaby, Rev. Andrew.Travels Through the Middle Settlements in
North America in the Years 1759 and 1760. 3rd ed. London: For T.
Payne, 1798.
 
Burrows, Edwin G., and Mike Wallace.A History of New York City
to 1898. New York and Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1999.
 
Butterfield, L. H., ed.Adams Family Correspondence. Vols. I–II.
Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1963.
 
———.Letters of Benjamin Rush. Vols. I–II. Princeton, N.J.:
American Philosophical Society, 1951.
 
Callahan, North.Henry Knox: General Washington’s General.
South Brunswick, Maine: A. S. Barnes & Co., 1958.
 
Chase, Philander; W. W. Abbott; and Dorothy Twohig, eds.The
Papers of George Washington. Vols. I–VIII. Charlottesville: University
Press of Virginia, 1985–1998.
 
Chidsey, Donald Barr.The Tide Turns: An Informal History of the
Campaign of 1776 in the American Revolution. New York: Crown
Publishers, 1966.
 
Churchill, Sir Winston.The Great Republic: A History of America.
New York: Modern Library, 2001.
 
Clark, William Bell, ed.Naval Documents of the American
Revolution. Vols. III–VII. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Department of the

Page 413
Page 413
Navy, 1968–1976.
 
Cobbett, William.The Parliamentary History of England from the
Earliest Period to the Year 1803. Vol. XVIII. London: T. C. Hansard,
1813.
 
Coffin, Charles, ed.The Lives and Services of Maj. Gen. John
Thomas, Col. Thomas Knowlton, Col. Alexander Scammell, Maj.
Gen. Henry Dearborn. New York: Egbert, Hovey & King, 1845.
 
Colley, Linda.Britons Forging the Nation, 1707–1837. New
Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1992.
 
Collins, Varnum Lansing, ed.A Brief Narrative of the Ravages of
the British and Hessians at Princeton, 1776–1777. Princeton, N.J.:
University Library, 1999.
 
Commager, Henry Steele, and Richard B. Morris, eds.The Spirit
of ’Seventy-Six: The Story of the American Revolution as Told by
Participants. Vols. I–II. Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill, 1958.
 
Conway, Moncure Daniel.Writings of Thomas Paine. Vol. I. New
York: Putnam, 1894.
 
Cook, Don.The Long Fuse: How England Lost the American
Colonies, 1760–1785. New York: Atlantic Monthly Press, 1995.
 
Copley, John Singleton.Letters and Papers of John Singleton
Copley and Henry Pelham, 1739–1776. Boston: Massachusetts
Historical Society, 1914.
 
Corner, George W., ed.The Autobiography of Benjamin Rush: His
Travels Through Life, Together with His ‘Commonplace Book’ for
1789–1813. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1970.

Page 414
Page 414
Coupland, R.The American Revolution and the British Empire.
New York: Russell & Russell, 1965.
 
Crary, Catherine S.The Price of Loyalty: Tory Writings from the
Revolutionary Era. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1973.
 
Cumming, W. P., and Hugh Rankin.The Fate of a Nation: The
American Revolution Through Contemporary Eyes. London: Phaidon
Press, 1975.
 
Cunliffe, Marcus.George Washington: Man and Monument. New
York: New American Library, 1958.
 
Custis, George Washington Parke.Recollections and Private
Memoirs of Washington. New York: Derby & Jackson, 1860.
 
Cutter, William.The Life of Israel Putnam, Major General in the
Army of the American Revolution. Boston: Sanborn, Carter, Bazin &
Co., 1846.
 
Dalzell, Robert F., Jr., and Lee Baldwin Dalzell.George
Washington’s Mount Vernon. New York: Oxford University Press,
1998.
 
Dann, John C., ed.The Revolution Remembered: Eyewitness
Accounts of the War for Independence. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 1980.
 
Davies, K. G., ed.Documents of the American Revolution, 1770–
1783. Colonial Office Series. Vols. XI, XIV. Dublin: Irish University
Press, 1976.
 
Dawson, Henry B., ed.New York City During the American
Revolution: Being a Collection of Original Papers from the
Manuscripts of the Mercantile Library Association of New York City.
New York: Privately printed for the Association, 1861.

Page 415
Page 415
Deary, William Paul. “Toward Disaster at Fort Washington,
November 1776.” Dissertation, George Washington University, 1996.
 
Decker, Malcolm.Brink of Revolution: New York in Crisis, 1765–
1776. New York: Argosy Antiquarian, 1964.
 
Defoe, Daniel.A Tour Thro’ Great Britain, 1742. Vol. II. New York
& London: Garland Publishing, 1975.
 
Diamant, Lincoln.Chaining the Hudson: The Fight for the River in
the American Revolution. Carol Publishing Group, 1994.
 
———.Revolutionary Women in the War for American
Independence. A one-volume revised edition of Elizabeth Ellet’s
1848 Landmark Series. Westport, Conn.: Praeger, 1998.
 
Drake, Francis S.Life and Correspondence of Henry Knox.
Boston: Samuel G. Drake, 1873.
 
Drake, Samuel Adams.General Israel Putnam: The Commander
at Bunker Hill. Boston: Nichols & Hall, 1875.
 
———.Old Landmarks and Historic Personages of Boston.
Boston: James R. Osgood & Co., 1873.
 
Draper, Theodore.A Struggle for Power: The American
Revolution. New York: Times Books, 1996.
 
Drinkwater, John.Charles James Fox. New York: Cosmopolitan
Book Corp., 1928.
 
Duer, William Alexander.The Life of William Alexander, Earl of
Stirling, with Selections from His Correspondence. Published for the
New Jersey Historical Society. New York: Wiley & Putnam, 1847.

Page 416
Page 416
Duncan, Louis C.Medical Men in the American Revolution.
Jefferson, N.C., and London: McFarland & Co., 1998.
 
Dwyer, William M.The Day Is Ours: November 1776–January
1777, An Inside View of the Battles of Trenton and Princeton. New
York: Viking Press, 1983.
 
Eliot, Ellsworth, Jr.The Patriotism of Joseph Reed. New Haven,
Conn.: Yale University Library, 1943.
 
Ellet, Elizabeth F.The Women of the American Revolution. Vol. III.
Philadelphia: George W. Jacobs & Co., 1900.
 
English, Frederick.General Hugh Mercer: Forgotten Hero of the
American Revolution. Lawrenceville, N.J.: Princeton Academic
Press, 1975.
 
Fenn, Elizabeth A.Pox Americana: The Great Smallpox Epidemic
of 1775–82. New York: Hill & Wang, 2001.
 
Ferris, Robert G., and Richard E. Morris.The Signers of the
Declaration of Independence. Flagstaff, Ariz.: Interpretive
Publications, 1982.
 
Field, Thomas W.Battle of Long Island. Brooklyn: Long Island
Historical Society, 1869.
 
Fields, Joseph E.Worthy Partner: The Papers of Martha
Washington. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1994.
 
Fischer, David Hackett.Paul Revere’s Ride. New York: Oxford
University Press, 1994.
 
———.Washington’s Crossing. New York: Oxford University
Press, 2004.

Page 417
Page 417
Fisher, Sydney George.The True History of the American
Revolution. Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott, 1902.
 
Fiske, John.The American Revolution. Vols. I–II. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin, 1891.
 
Fitzpatrick, John C., ed.George Washington Accounts of
Expenses. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1917.
 
———.George Washington Himself. Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill,
1933.
 
———.The Writings of George Washington from the Original
Manuscript Sources, 1745–1799. Vols. I–VIII. Washington, D.C.:
U.S. Government Printing Office, 1931–1933.
 
Fleming, Thomas.Now We Are Enemies: The Story of Bunker
Hill. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1960.
 
———.1776: Year of Illusions. New York: Norton, 1975.
 
Flexner, James Thomas.George Washington: The Forge of
Experience, 1732–1775. Vol. 1. Boston: Little, Brown, 1965.
 
———.George Washington in the American Revolution, 1775–
1783. Vol. II. Boston: Little, Brown, 1967.
 
———.The Young Hamilton: A Biography. Boston and Toronto:
Little, Brown, 1978.
 
Flood, Charles Bracelen.Rise, and Fight Again: Perilous Times
Along the Road to Independence. New York: Dodd, Mead, 1976.
 
Foner, Philip S., ed.The Complete Writings of Thomas Paine. 2
vols. New York: Citadel Press, 1945.

Page 418
Page 418
Forbes, Esther.Paul Revere and the World He Lived In. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin, 1942.
 
Force, Peter.American Archives: Consisting of a Collection of
Authentick Records, State Papers, Debates, and Letters and Other
Notices of Public Affairs. 4th series. 9 vols. Washington, D.C.: M. St.
Clair and Peter Force, 1837–1853.
 
Ford, Paul Leicester.Washington and the Theatre. New York:
Dunlap Society, 1899.
 
Fortescue, Sir John, ed.The Correspondence of King George the
Third from 1760 to December 1783. Vol. III. London: Macmillan,
1927–1928.
 
———.The War of Independence: The British Army in North
America, 1775–1783. London: Greenhill Books, 2001.
 
Fowler, William, Jr.The Baron of Beacon Hill: A Biography of John
Hancock. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1980.
 
———.Rebels Under Sail: The American Navy During the
Revolution. New York: Scribner, 1976.
 
Freeman, Douglas Southall.George Washington. Vols. I–II.Young
Washington. New York: Scribner, 1948–1949.
 
———.George Washington. Vol. III.Planter and Patriot. New
York: Scribner, 1951.
 
———.George Washington. Vol. IV.Leader of the Revolution.
New York: Scribner, 1951.
 
French, Allen.The First Year of the American Revolution. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin, 1934.

Page 419
Page 419
———.The Siege of Boston. New York: Macmillan, 1911.
 
Frey, Sylvia R.The British Soldier in America: A Social History of
Military Life in the Revolutionary Period. Austin: University of Texas,
1981.
 
Frothingham, Thomas G.History of the Siege of Boston, and of
the Battles of Lexington, Concord, and Bunker Hill. New York: Da
Capo Press, 1970.
 
———.Washington: Commander in Chief. Boston: Houghton
Mifflin, 1930.
 
Fruchtman, Jack, Jr.Thomas Paine, Apostle of Freedom. New
York: Four Walls Eight Windows, 1994.
 
Gallagher, John J.The Battle of Brooklyn, 1776. New York:
Sarpedon, 1995.
 
Garrett, Wendell.George Washington’s Mount Vernon. New York:
Monacelli Press, 1998.
 
Gerlach, Larry R., ed.New Jersey in the American Revolution:
1763–1783. Trenton, N.J.: New Jersey Historical Commission, 1975.
 
Gillett, Mary C.The Army Medical Department, 1775–1818.
Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1995.
 
Gordon, William.The History of the Rise, Progress, and
Establishment of the Independence of the United States of America.
Vols. I–II. London, 1788.
 
Greene, Albert.Recollections of the Jersey Prison Ship. Bedford,
Mass.: Applewood Books, 1961.

Page 420
Page 420
Greene, George Washington.The Life of Nathanael Greene. Vol.
I. Freeport, N.Y.: Books for Libraries Press, 1962.
 
———.Nathanael Greene: An Examination of Some Statements
Concerning Major General Greene in the Ninth Volume of Bancroft’s
“History of the United States.” Boston: Ticknor & Fields, 1866.
 
Griffiths, Thomas Morgan.Major General Henry Knox and the
Last Heirs to Montpelier. Monmouth, Maine: Monmouth Press, 1965.
 
Gruber, Ira D.The Howe Brothers and the American Revolution.
New York: Atheneum, 1972.
 
Hamilton, John C.The Life of Alexander Hamilton. Vol. I. New
York: Halsted & Voorhies, 1834.
 
Hammond, Otis G., ed.Letters and Papers of Major-General John
Sullivan. Vols. I–III. Concord: New Hampshire Historical Society,
1930–1939.
 
Harcourt, Edward William, ed.The Harcourt Papers. Vol. XI.
Oxford, Eng.: James Parke & Co., 1884.
 
Harrison, Peleg.The Stars and Stripes and Other American Flags.
Boston: Little, Brown, 1914.
 
Hawke, David Freeman.Paine. New York: Harper & Row, 1974.
 
Heller, Charles E., and William A. Stofft, eds.America’s First
Battles, 1776–1965. Lawrence: University Press of Kansas, 1986.
 
Hibbert, Christopher.George III: A Personal History. New York:
Viking Press, 1998.
 
———.Redcoats and Rebels. New York: Avon Books, 1990.

Page 421
Page 421
Higginbotham, Don.George Washington and the American
Military Tradition. Athens: University of Georgia Press, 1985.
 
———, ed.George Washington Reconsidered. Charlottesville:
University Press of Virginia, 2001.
 
———.George Washington: Uniting a Nation. Lanham, Md.:
Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, 2002.
 
———.The War of American Independence: Military Attitudes,
Policies, and Practice, 1763–1789. New York: Macmillan, 1971.
 
Hill, George Canning.Gen. Israel Putnam: “Old Put,” a Biography.
Boston: E. O. Libby & Co., 1858.
 
Hirschfield, Fritz.George Washington and Slavery. Columbia:
University of Missouri Press, 1997.
 
Hofstra, Warren R., ed.George Washington and the Virginia
Backcountry. Madison, Wis.: Madison House Publishers, 1998.
 
Holmes, Richard.Redcoat: The British Soldier in the Age of Horse
and Musket. New York: Norton, 2001
 
Houlding, J. A.Fit for Service: The Training of the British Army,
1715–1795. Oxford, Eng.: Clarendon Press, 1981.
 
Huddleston, F. J.Gentleman Johnny Burgoyne. Garden City, N.Y.:
Garden City Publishing, 1927.
 
Humphreys, David.An Essay on the Life of the Honourable Major-
General Isaac Putnam. Indianapolis: Liberty Fund, 2000.
 
———.The Life, Anecdotes, and Heroic Exploits of Israel
Putnam. Cleveland: M. C. Younglove & Co., 1849.

Page 422
Page 422
———.Life of General Washington. Athens: University of Georgia
Press, 1991.
 
Ierley, Merritt.The Year That Tried Men’s Souls: A Journalistic
Reconstruction of the World of 1776. South Brunswick, N.J.: A. S.
Barnes & Co., 1976.
 
Jesse, J. Heneage.Memoirs of the Life and Reign of King George
the Third. Vol. II. 2nd ed. London: Tinsley Bros., 1867.
 
Johnston, Elizabeth Bryant.George Washington Day by Day. New
York: Baker & Taylor Co., 1895.
 
Johnston, Henry Phelps.The Battle of Harlem Heights,
September 16, 1776. New York: Macmillan, 1897.
 
———.The Campaign of 1776 Around New York and Brooklyn.
Brooklyn: Long Island Historical Society, 1878.
 
———.Nathan Hale, 1776. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University
Press, 1914.
 
———.Yale and Her Honor Roll in the American Revolution,
1775–1783. New York: Privately printed, 1888.
 
Jones, E. Alfred.The Loyalists of Massachusetts. London: St.
Catherine Press, 1930.
 
Jones, Michael Wynn.Cartoon History of the American
Revolution. New York: Putnam, 1975.
 
Jones, Thomas.History of New York During the Revolutionary
War. Vols. I–II. New York: New-York Historical Society, 1879.
 
Kammen, Michael.Colonial New York: A History. New York:
Scribner, 1975.

Page 423
Page 423
———.A Season of Youth: The American Revolution and the
Historical Imagination. New York: Knopf, 1978.
 
Ketchum, Richard M.Decisive Day: The Battle for Bunker Hill.
New York: Doubleday, 1962.
 
———.Divided Loyalties: How the American Revolution Came to
New York. New York: Holt, 2002.
 
———.The Winter Soldiers. Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday, 1973.
 
———.The World of George Washington. New York: American
Heritage, 1974.
 
Kidder, Frederic.History of the First New Hampshire Regiment in
the War of the Revolution. Albany, N.Y.: Joel Munsell, 1968.
 
Lancaster, Bruce.From Lexington to Liberty: The Story of the
American Revolution. Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday, 1955.
 
Langford, Paul, ed.The Writings and Speeches of Edmund Burke.
Oxford, Eng.: Clarendon Press, 1996.
 
Lawrence, Vera Brodsky.Music for Patriots, Politicians, and
Presidents. New York: Macmillan, 1975.
 
Lefferts, Lt. Charles M.Uniforms of the American, British, French,
and German Armies in the War of the American Revolution. New
York: New-York Historical Society, 1926.
 
Lefkowitz, Arthur S.The Long Retreat: The Calamitous American
Defense of New Jersey, 1776. Metuchen, N.J.: Upland Press, 1998.
 
Lewis, W. S., and John Riely, eds.Horace Walpole’s
Miscellaneous Correspondence. Vol. II. New Haven, Conn.: Yale

Page 424
Page 424
University Press, 1980.
 
Lewis, Wilmouth Sheldon.Three Tours Through London in the
Years 1748, 1776, 1797. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press,
1941.
 
Longmore, Paul K.The Invention of George Washington.
Berkeley: University of California Press, 1988.
 
Lundin, Leonard.Cockpit of the Revolution: The War for
Independence in New Jersey. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University
Press, 1940.
 
Lushington, S. R.The Life and Services of General Lord Harris.
2nd ed. London: John W. Parker, 1845.
 
Lutnick, Solomon.The American Revolution and the British Press,
1775–1783. Columbia: University of Missouri Press, 1967.
 
Mackesy, Piers.The War for America: 1775–1783. London:
Longmans, Green & Co., 1964.
 
Maier, Pauline.American Scripture: Making the Declaration of
Independence. New York: Knopf, 1997.
 
Manders, Eric I.The Battle of Long Island. Monmouth Beach,
N.J.: Philip Freneau Press, 1978.
 
Marshall, John.The Life of George Washington, Commander-in-
Chief of the American Forces. Vol. II. Philadelphia: C. P. Wayne,
1804.
 
Martyn, Charles.The Life of Artemas Ward, the First Commander-
in-Chief of the American Revolution. New York: Artemas Ward, 1921.

Page 425
Page 425
Mason, George C.The Life and Works of Gilbert Stuart. New
York: Scribner, 1879.
 
McCullough, David.John Adams. New York: Simon & Schuster,
2001.
 
McKenzie, Matthew G.Barefooted, Bare Leg’d, Bare Breech’d:
The Revolutionary War Service of the Massachusetts Continental
Line. Boston: Massachusetts Society of the Cincinnati, 1995.
 
Middlekauff, Robert.The Glorious Cause: The American
Revolution, 1763–1789. New York: Oxford University Press, 1982.
 
Middleton, Richard.Colonial America: A History, 1585–1776. 3rd
ed. Oxford, Eng.: Blackwell Publishers, 2002.
 
Miller, Lillian B., ed.Selected Papers of Charles Willson Peale
and His Family. Vols. I, V. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press,
1983, 2000.
 
Mitchell, L. G.Charles J. Fox. Oxford, Eng.: Oxford University
Press, 1992.
 
Montross, Lynn.The Reluctant Rebels: The Story of the
Continental Congress, 1774–1789. New York: Barnes & Noble,
1950.
 
———.The Story of the Continental Army, 1775–1783. New York:
Barnes & Noble, 1967.
 
Moore, Frank.Diary of the American Revolution. Vols. I–II. New
York: Charles Scribner, 1860.
 
Moore, George H.The Treason of Charles Lee. Port Washington,
N.Y.: Kennikat Press, 1970

Page 426
Page 426
Morgan, Edmund S.The Genius of George Washington. New
York: Norton 1977.
 
Morgan, Edwin V.Slavery in New York. Half Moon Series edition.
Vol. II, No. 1. New York: Putnam, 1898.
 
Morgan, William James, ed.Naval Documents of the American
Revolution. Vols. IV–VI. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Department of the
Navy, 1969–1972.
 
Morrissey, Brendan.Boston, 1775: The Shot Heard Around the
World. London: Osprey, 1995.
 
Murray, Rev. James.An Impartial History of the War in America.
Vol. II. Newcastle, Eng.: Printed for T. Robson, 1780.
 
Norton, J. E., ed.The Letters of Edward Gibbon. Vol. II.1774–
1784. New York: Macmillan, 1956.
 
Norton, Mary Beth.Liberty’s Daughters. Boston: Little, Brown,
1980.
 
Olsen, Kirstin.Daily Life in 18th-Century England. Westport,
Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1999.
 
Onderdonk, Henry, Jr.Revolutionary Incidents of Suffolk and
Kings Counties. New York: Leavitt & Co., 1849.
 
Otten, Robert M.Joseph Addison. Boston: Twayne Publishers,
1982.
 
Pain, Nesta.George III at Home. London: Eyre Methuen, 1975.
 
Paine, Thomas.The American Crisis. London: T. W. Shaw, 1775.

Page 427
Page 427
———.“Rights of Man” and “Common Sense.” New York: Knopf,
1994.
 
Palmer, Dave Richard.The Way of the Fox: American Strategy in
the War for America, 1775–1783. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood
Press, 1975.
 
Partridge, Bellamy.Sir Billy Howe. London: Longmans, Green &
Co., 1932.
 
Pearson, Michael.Those Damned Rebels. New York: Da Capo
Press, 1972.
 
Peckham, Howard H., ed.The Toll of Independence. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, 1974.
 
Peterson, Harold L.The Book of the Continental Soldier.
Harrisburg, Pa.: Stackpole Co., 1968.
 
Phillips, Brig. Gen. Thomas R., ed.Reveries on the Art of War:
Marshal Maurice de Saxe. Harrisburg, Pa.: Military Service
Publishing Co., 1944.
 
Plumb, J. H.The First Four Georges. London: Fontana/Collins,
1956.
 
Preble, George Henry.Origin and History of the American Flag.
Philadelphia: Nicholas L. Brown, 1917.
 
Putnam, Alfred P.A Sketch of General Israel Putnam. Salem,
Mass.: Eben Putnam, 1893.
 
Quarles, Benjamin.The Negro in the American Revolution.
Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1961.

Page 428
Page 428
Ramsay, David.The History of the American Revolution. Vols. I–
II. London: Printed for John Stockdale, 1793.
 
———.Life of George Washington. Ithaca, N.Y.: Mack, Andrus &
Woodruff, 1840.
 
Raphael, Ray.A People’s History of the American Revolution:
How Common People Shaped the Fight for Independence. New
York: New Press, 2001.
 
Rasmussen, William M. S., and Robert S. Tilton.George
Washington: The Man Behind the Myths. Charlottesville: University
Press of Virginia, 1999.
 
Rawson, Jonathan.1776: A Day-by-Day Story. New York:
Frederick A. Stokes Co., 1927.
 
Reed, William B., ed.Life and Correspondence of Joseph Reed.
Vol. I. Philadelphia: Lindsay & Blakiston, 1847.
 
Reich, Jerome R.British Friends of the American Revolution.
Armonk, N.Y.: M. E. Sharpe, 1998.
 
Reid, Stuart.Wolfe: The Career of General James Wolfe from
Culloden to Quebec. Staple-hurst, Eng.: Spellmount, 2000.
 
Reilly, Robin.Wolfe of Quebec. London: Cassell & Co., 2001.
 
Rhodehamel, John, ed.The American Revolution: Writings from
the War of Independence. New York: Library of America, 2001.
 
———.George Washington: Writings. New York: Library of
America, 1997.
 
Rhoden, Nancy L., and Ian K. Steele, eds.The Human Tradition
in the American Revolution. Wilmington, Del.: Scholarly Resources,

Page 429
Page 429
2000.
 
Riding, Christine, and Jacqueline Riding.The Houses of
Parliament: History, Art, Architecture. London: Merrell, 2000.
 
Ritcheson, Charles R.British Politics and the American
Revolution. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1981.
 
Roberts, Jane, ed.George III and Queen Charlotte: Patronage,
Collecting, and Court Taste. London: Royal Collection Enterprises,
2004.
 
Robson, Eric, ed.Letters from America, 1773–1780. Manchester,
Eng.: Manchester University Press, 1951.
 
Roche, John F.Joseph Reed: A Moderate in the American
Revolution. New York: Columbia University Press, 1957.
 
Rossman, Kenneth R.Thomas Mifflin and the Politics of the
American Revolution. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press,
1952.
 
Royster, Charles.A Revolutionary People at War: The Continental
Army and American Character, 1775–1783. Chapel Hill: University of
North Carolina Press, 1979.
 
Sabine, Lorenzo.Biographical Sketches of Loyalists of the
American Revolution. 2 vols. Port Washington, N.Y.: Kennikat Press,
1966.
 
Sabine, William H. W.Murder, 1776 and Washington’s Policy of
Silence. New York: Theo. Gaus’ Sons, Inc., 1973.
 
Sayen, William Guthrie. “A Compleat Gentleman: The Making of
George Washington, 1732–1775.” Dissertation, University of
Connecticut, 1998.

Page 430
Page 430
Schecter, Barnet.The Battle for New York: The City at the Heart
of the American Revolution. New York: Walker & Co., 2002.
 
Scheer, George F., and Hugh F. Rankin.Rebels and Redcoats:
The American Revolution Through the Eyes of Those Who Fought
and Lived It. New York: Da Capo Press, 1957.
 
Schroeder, John Frederick, ed.Maxims of George Washington.
Mount Vernon, Va.: Mount Vernon Ladies Association, 1989.
 
Schwarz, Philip J., ed.Slavery at the Home of George
Washington. Mount Vernon, Va.: Mount Vernon Ladies Association,
2001.
 
Scott, John Anthony.Trumpet of a Prophecy: Revolutionary
America, 1763–1783. New York: Knopf, 1969.
 
Sellers, Charles Coleman.Charles Willson Peale. Vol. I.Early Life.
Philadelphia: American Philosophical Society, 1947.
 
Seymour, William.The Price of Folly: British Blunders in the War
of American Independence. London: Brassey’s, 1995.
 
Sheppard, Edgar.Memorials of St. James’s Palace. Vol. I.
London: Longmans, Green & Co., 1894.
 
Showman, Richard K., ed.The Papers of Nathanael Greene.
Vols. I, II, X. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1976,
1980, 1998.
 
Shy, John.A People Numerous and Armed: Reflections on the
Military Struggle for American Independence. Ann Arbor: University
of Michigan Press, 1990.

Page 431
Page 431
Simms, W. Gilmore, ed.The Life of Nathanael Greene. New York:
George F. Cooledge and Bro., 1849.
 
Sizer, Theodore, ed.The Autobiography of Colonel John
Trumbull. Library of American Art. New York: Da Capo Press, 1970.
 
Smith, Paul H., ed.Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774–1789.
Vols. I–V. Washington, D.C.: Library of Congress, 1976–1979.
 
Smollett, Tobias.Adventures of Roderick Random. London:
Hutchinson & Co., 1904.
 
———.The Expedition of Humphrey Clinker. Oxford, Eng.: Oxford
University Press, 1966.
 
Stark, James H.The Loyalists of Massachusetts and the Other
Side of the American Revolution. Boston: W. B. Clarke Co., 1910.
 
Stedman, Charles.The History of the Origin, Progress, and
Termination of the American War. Vol I. London: J. Murray 1794;
reprint, New York: Arno Press, 1969.
 
Stiles, Henry R.History of the City of Brooklyn. Vol. I. Albany,
N.Y.: J. Munsell, 1869.
 
Still, Bayrd.Mirror for Gotham New York as Seen by
Contemporaries from Dutch Days to the Present. New York:
University Press, 1956.
 
Stokes, I. N. Phelps.The Iconography of Manhattan Island, 1498–
1909. Vols. I, IV, V. New York: Arno Press, 1967.
 
Stryker, William S.Battles of Trenton and Princeton. Trenton, N.J.:
Old Barracks Association, 2001.

Page 432
Page 432
Surtees, R. S.Mr. Sponge’s Sporting Tour. London: Folio Society,
1950.
 
Taylor, Maureen Alice, and John Wood Sweet.Runaways,
Deserters, and Notorious Villains. Vol. II. Rockport, Maine: Picton
Press, 2001.
 
Taylor, Robert J., ed.Papers of John Adams. Vols. III–V.
Cambridge, Mass.: Belknap Press, 1979, 1983.
 
Thayer, Theodore.Nathanael Greene: Strategist of the American
Revolution. New York: Twayne Publishers, 1960.
 
Thomas, Peter D. G.Lord North. New York: St. Martin’s Press,
1976.
 
Thompson, Eben Francis.A Brief Chronicle of Rufus Putnam and
His Rutland Home. Worcester, Mass.: Privately printed, 1930.
 
Trevelyan, Sir George Otto.The American Revolution. Vols. I–IV.
New York: Longmans, Green & Co., 1899.
 
Tuchman, Barbara W.The March of Folly: From Troy to Vietnam.
New York: Ballantine Books, 1984.
 
Turberville, A. S., ed.Johnson’s England: An Account of the Life
and Manners of His Age. Oxford, Eng.: Clarendon Press, 1933.
 
Tyler, Moses Coit.The Literary History of the American
Revolution. Vols. I–II. New York: Frederick Ungar Publishing Co.,
1957.
 
Valentine, Alan.Lord Stirling: Colonial Gentleman and General in
Washington’s Army. New York: Oxford University Press, 1969.

Page 433
Page 433
Van Doren, Carl.Secret History of the American Revolution.
Garden City, N.Y.: Garden City Publishing Co., 1941.
 
Van Tyne, Claude Halstead.Loyalists in the American Revolution.
Gansevoort, N.Y.: Corner House Historical Publications, 1999.
 
Wade, Herbert T., and Robert A. Lively, eds.This Glorious Cause:
The Adventures of Two Company Officers in Washington’s Army.
Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1958.
 
Ward, Christopher.The War of the Revolution. Edited by John
Richard Alden. Vols. I–II. New York: Macmillan, 1952.
 
Warden, G. B.Boston: 1689–1776. Boston: Little, Brown, 1970.
 
Warren, Mercy Otis.History of the Rise, Progress, and
Termination of the American Revolution. Edited by Lester H. Cohen.
Vols. I–IV. Indianapolis: Liberty Fund, 1989 (orig., 1805).
 
Warren-Adams Letters.Vol. I.1743–1777. New York: AMS Press,
1972.
 
Washington, George.Rules of Civility and Decent Behavior in
Company and Conversation. Mt. Vernon, Va.: Mount Vernon’s Ladies
Association, 1989.
 
Weigley, Russell F.History of the United States Army. New York:
Macmillan, 1967.
 
Wheeler, Richard.Voices of 1776: The Story of the American
Revolution in the Words of Those Who Were There. New York:
Thomas Y. Crowell Co., 1972.
 
Whitehill, Walter Muir.Boston: A Topographical History.
Cambridge, Mass.: Belknap Press, 1968.

Page 434
Page 434
Whiteley, William G.The Revolutionary Soldiers of Delaware.
Wilmington, Del.: James & Webb Printers, 1875.
 
Wick, Wendy C.George Washington, an American Icon: The
Eighteenth-Century Graphic Portraits. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service and the National
Portrait Gallery, 1982.
 
Wickwire, Franklin, and Mary Wickwire.Cornwallis: The American
Adventure. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1970.
 
Willard, Margaret Wheeler, ed.Letters on the American
Revolution, 1774–1776. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1925.
 
Willcox, William B.Portrait of a General: Sir Henry Clinton in the
War of Independence. New York: Knopf, 1962.
 
Winsor, Justin, ed.The Memorial History of Boston. Vol. III.
Boston: James Osgood & Co., 1881.
 
Wood, Gordon S.The Creation of the American Republic, 1776–
1787. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1969.
 
Wood, W. J.Battles of the Revolutionary War: 1775–1781. New
York: Da Capo Press, 1995.
 
Wortley, The Honorable Mrs. E. Stuart, ed.A Prime Minister and
His Son: From the Correspondence of the Third Earl of Bute and of
Lieutenant General the Honorable Sir Charles Stuart. London: John
Murray, 1925.
 
Wright, Esmond.Fabric of Freedom: 1763–1800. New York: Hill &
Wang, 1961.

Page 435
Page 435
Reference Works
 
Black, Jeremy, and Roy Porter, eds.The Penguin Dictionary of
Eighteenth-Century History. London: Penguin Books, 1994.
 
Boatner, Mark M., III, ed.Encyclopedia of the American
Revolution. New York: David McKay Co., 1966.
 
———.Landmarks of the American Revolution. Harrisburg, Pa.:
Stackpole Books, 1973.
 
Cappon, Lester J., ed.The Atlas of Early American History: The
Revolutionary Era, 1760–1790. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University
Press, 1976.
 
Carnes, Mark C., and John A. Garraty.Mapping America’s Past: A
Historical Atlas. New York: Holt, 1996.
 
Dexter, Franklin Bowditch.Biographical Sketches of the
Graduates of Yale College. Vol. III.1763–1778. New York: Holt, 1903.
 
Foner, Eric, and John A. Garraty, eds.Reader’s Companion to
American History. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1991.
 
Grizzard, Frank E., Jr.George Washington: A Biographical
Companion. Santa Barbara, Calif.: ABC-Clio, 2002.
 
Homberger, Eric.Historical Atlas of New York City. New York:
Holt, 1944.
 
Johnson, Allen, ed.Dictionary of American Biography. 11 vols.
New York: Scribner, 1936–1964.
 
Ketchum, Richard M., ed.The American Heritage Book of the
Revolution. New York: American Heritage, 1958.

Page 436
Page 436
Kiple, Kenneth F.Cambridge World History of Human Disease.
Cambridge, Eng.: Cambridge University Press, 1992.
 
Marshall, P. J., ed.The Oxford History of the British Empire: The
Eighteenth Century. Vol. II. Oxford, Eng.: Oxford University Press,
1998.
 
Mollo, John, and Malcolm McGregor.Uniforms of the American
Revolution in Color. New York: Macmillan, 1975.
 
Nebenzahl, Kenneth, ed.Atlas of the American Revolution.
Chicago: Rand McNally, 1974.
 
Purcell, L. Edward, and David F. Burg, eds.World Almanac of the
American Revolution. New York: World Almanac, 1992.
 
Sebastian, Anton.Dictionary of the History of Medicine. New York:
Parthenon Publishers, 1999.
 
Shipton, Clifford K., ed.Sibley’s Harvard Graduates, Vols. XIII,
XVII. Boston: Massachusetts Historical Society, 1965, 1975.
 
Stember, Sol.The Bicentennial Guide to the American Revolution.
Vol. II. New York: Saturday Review Press, 1974.
 
Stephen, Sir Leslie, and Sir Sidney Lee, eds.Dictionary of
National Biography. Vols. I–LX. Oxford, Eng.: Oxford University
Press, 2004.
 
Symonds, Craig L.A Battlefield Atlas of the American Revolution.
Baltimore: Nautical & Aviation Publishing, 1986.
 
Diaries, Journals, and Memoirs
 
Adlum, John.Memoirs of the Life of John Adlum in the
Revolutionary War. Edited by Howard H. Peckham. Chicago: Caxton

Page 437
Page 437
Club, 1968.
 
Amory, Thomas C. “Memoir of General Sullivan.”Pennsylvania
Magazine of History and Biography. Vol. II. Philadelphia: Published
for the Society, 1878.
 
Anderson, Enoch.Personal Recollections of Captain Enoch
Anderson. Vol XVI of thePapers of the Historical Society of
Delaware. Wilmington: Historical Society of Delaware, 1896.
 
Baldwin, Jeduthan.The Revolutionary Journal of Col. Jeduthan
Baldwin, 1775–1778. Edited by Thomas Williams Baldwin. Bangor,
Maine: Printed for the DeBurians, 1906.
 
Bangs, Isaac.Journal of Lieutenant Isaac Bangs: April 1, 1776–
July 29, 1776. Edited by Edward Bangs. Cambridge, Mass.: John
Wilson & Son, 1890.
 
Barker, John.The British in Boston: The Diary of Lieutenant John
Barker. Edited by Elizabeth Ellery Dana. New York: Arno Press,
1969.
 
Bixby, Samuel. “Diary of Samuel Bixby, August 3–12,
1775.”Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical Society. Vol. XIV
(1875–1876).
 
Black, Jeannette D., and William Greene Roelker, eds.A Rhode
Island Chaplain in the Revolution: Letters of Ebenezer David to
Nicholas Brown, 1775–1778. Clements Library, Ann Arbor, Mich.
 
Boyle, Joseph Lee, ed.From Redcoat to Rebel: The Thomas
Sullivan Journal. Bowie, Md.: Heritage Books, 1997.
 
Bradford, S. Sidney, ed. “A British Officer’s Revolutionary War
Journal, 1776–1778.”Maryland History Magazine, Vol. LVI (June
1961).

Page 438
Page 438
Bray, Robert, and Paul Bushnell, eds.Diary of a Common Soldier
in the American Revolution: 1775–1783. DeKalb: Northern Illinois
University Press, 1978.
 
Burgoyne, Bruce E.An Anonymous Hessian Diary, Probably the
Diary of Lieutenant Johann Heinrich von Bardeleben of the Hesse-
Cassel von Donop Regiment. Bowie, Md.: Heritage Books, 1998.
 
———, ed.Defeat, Disaster, and Dedication: The Diaries of the
Hessian Officers Jakob Piel and Andreas Wiederhold. Translated
from manuscripts in the New York Public Library. Bowie, Md.:
Heritage Books, Inc., 1997.
 
Campbell, Lachlan. “British Journal from Aboard Ship in Boston
Commencing January 1776 and Then Moving to New York.” New-
York Historical Society.
 
Carter, Lt. William.A Genuine Detail of the Several Engagements,
Positions, and Movements of Royal and American Armies During the
Years 1775 and 1776. London: Printed for the Author, 1784.
 
Chastellux, Marquis de.Travels in North America in the Years
1780, 1781, and 1782. Vols. I–II. Edited by Howard C. Rice. Chapel
Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1963.
 
Cheever, William. “William Cheever’s Diary, 1775–
1776.”Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical Society. Vol. LX
(October 1926–June 1927).
 
Clinton, Sir Henry.The American Rebellion: Sir Henry Clinton’s
Narrative of His Campaigns, 1775–1782. Edited by William B.
Willcox. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1954.
 
Cresswell, Nicholas.The Journal of Nicholas Cresswell, 1774–
1777. New York: Dial Press, 1924.

Page 439
Page 439
Curwen, Samuel.The Journal of Samuel Curwen, Loyalist. Vols.
I–II. Edited by Andrew Oliver. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University
Press, 1972.
 
“Diary of Reverend Benjamin Boardman” (July 31, 1775–Nov. 12,
1775).Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical Society. 2nd
series. Vol. VII (1891–1892).
 
“Diary of Obadiah Brown.”Quarterly Bulletin of the Westchester
County Historical Society. Nos. 4–5 (1928–1929).
 
Diary of Reverend Samuel Cooper. Massachusetts Historical
Society.
 
Diary of John Kettel. Massachusetts Historical Society.
 
Diary of Loyalist Thomas Moffatt. Peter Force Papers. Library of
Congress.
 
“Diary of Nathan Sellers, 1776.” American Philosophical Society.
 
“A Diary of Trifling Occurrences: Sarah Fisher
Logan.”Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography. Vol.
LXXXII (1958).
 
“Diary of Ebenezer Wild.”Proceedings of the Massachusetts
Historical Society. 2nd series. Vol. VI (1891).
 
Duane, William, ed.Diary of Christopher Marshall, 1774–1781.
Albany, N.Y.: Joel Munsell, 1877.
 
Emerson, William.Diaries and Letters of William Emerson, 1743–
1776. Edited by Amelia Forbes Emerson. Boston: Thomas Todd,
1972.

Page 440
Page 440
Ewald, Captain Johann.Diary of the American War: A Hessian
Journal. Edited by Joseph P. Tustin. New Haven, Conn.: Yale
University Press, 1979.
 
Fitch, Jabez. “Boston Siege Diary of Jabez Fitch.”Proceedings of
the Massachusetts Historical Society. 2nd series. Vol IX (1894–
1895).
 
———.The New York Diary of Lieutenant Jabez Fitch of the 17th
(Connecticut) Regiment from August 2, 1776, to December 15, 1777.
Edited by W. H. W. Sabine. New York: Colburn & Tegg, 1954.
 
Fithian, Philip Vickers.Philip Vickers Fithian: Journal, 1775–1776,
Written on the Virginia-Pennsylvania Frontier and in the Army
Around New York. Edited by Robert Greenhalgh Albion and
Leonidas Dodson. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1934.
 
Graydon, Alexander.Memoirs of His Own Time: With
Reminiscences of the Men and Events of the Revolution. Edited by
John Stockton Littell. Philadelphia: Lindsay & Blakiston, 1846.
 
Greenwood, John.The Revolutionary Services of John
Greenwood of Boston and New York, 1775–1783. Edited by Isaac J.
Greenwood. New York: De Vinne Press 1922.
 
Gruber, Ira D., ed.John Peeble’s American War: The Diary of a
Scottish Grenadier, 1776–1782. Mechanicsburg, Pa.: Stackpole
Books, 1998.
 
Hanson, Robert Brand, ed.The Diary of Dr. Nathaniel Ames of
Dedham, Massachusetts, 1758–1822. Camden, Maine: Picton
Press, 1998.
 
Heath, Major General William.Heath’s Memoirs of the American
War. Edited by Rufus Rockwell Wilson. New York: A. Wessels Co.,
1904.

Page 441
Page 441
Hutchinson, Thomas.The Diary and Letters of His Excellency
Thomas Hutchinson Esq. Edited by Peter Orlando Hutchinson.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1884.
 
Inman, George. “George Inman’s Narrative of the American
Revolution.”Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography. Vol.
VII (1883).
 
“Journal of Samuel Correy, New Jersey Militia.” Clements Library.
 
“A Journal Kept by John Leach, During His Confinement by the
British, in Boston ‘Gaol’ in 1775.”New England Historic and
Genealogical Register. Vol. XIX (1865).
 
“Journal of Ensign Nathaniel Morgan, April 21 to December 11,
1775.”Collections of the Connecticut Historical Society. Vol. VII
(1889).
 
“Journal of Nathaniel Ober.” Massachusetts Historical Society.
 
“Journal of Lieutenant Williams.” New-York Historical Society.
 
“Journal of Captain James Wood, Third British Battalion, Royal
Artillery, 1775.” New-York Historical Society.
 
“Journal of Sergeant William Young.”Pennsylvania Magazine of
History and Biography. Vol. VIII (1884).
 
Kemble, Stephen.Journals of Lieutenant-Colonel Stephen
Kemble, 1773–1789, and British Army Orders: General Sir William
Howe, 1775–1778; General Sir Henry Clinton, 1778; and General
Daniel Jones, 1778. Boston: Gregg Press, 1972.
 
Kipping, Ernst, ed.At General Howe’s Side, 1776–1778: The
Diary of General William Howe’s Aide de Camp, Captain Friedrich

Page 442
Page 442
von Muenchhausen. Monmouth Beach, N.J.: Philip Freneau Press,
1974.
 
Knox, Henry. “Knox’s Diary During His Ticonderoga
Expedition.”New England Historic and Genealogical Register. Vol.
XXX (1876).
 
Leggett, Abraham.The Narrative of Major Abraham Leggett. New
York: Arno Press, 1971.
 
Lender, Mark E., and James Kirby Martin, eds.Citizen Soldier:
The Revolutionary War Journal of Joseph Bloomfield. Newark: New
Jersey Historical Society, 1982.
 
Lyman, Simeon.Journal of Simeon Lyman of Sharon, August 10
to December 28, 1775. Collections of the Connecticut Historical
Society. Vol. VII (1899).
 
Lynn, Mary C., ed.An Eyewitness Account of the American
Revolution and New England Life: The Journal of J. F. Wasmus,
German Company Surgeon, 1776–1783. New York: Greenwood
Press, 1990.
 
Martin, Joseph Plumb.A Narrative of a Revolutionary Soldier:
Some of the Adventures, Dangers, and Sufferings of Joseph Plumb
Martin. New York: Penguin Putnam, 2001.
 
McKenzie, Frederick.Diary of Frederick Mackenzie. Vol. I.
Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1930.
 
Montresor, John.“Journals of Captain John Montresor.” Edited by
G. D. Scull. Collections of the New-York Historical Society, 1881.
 
Morris, Margaret.Private Journal Kept During the Revolutionary
War. New York: Arno Press, 1969.

Page 443
Page 443
Murray, James.Letters from America, 1773 to 1780: Being the
Letters of a Scots Officer, Sir James Murray. Edited by Eric Robson.
New York: Barnes & Noble, 1874.
 
Nash, Solomon.Journal of Solomon Nash, a Soldier of the
Revolution, 1776–1777. Edited by Charles I. Bushnell. New York:
Privately printed, 1861.
 
“The Papers of General Samuel Smith.”Historical Magazine. 2nd
series. Vol. VII (February 1870).
 
Rau, Louise, ed. “Sergeant John Smith’s Diary of
1776.”Mississippi Valley Historical Review. Vol. XX (1933–1934).
 
Rawdon, Reginald Lord.Report on the Manuscripts of the Late
Reginald Rawdon Hastings. 4 vols. London: Her Majesty’s Stationery
Office, 1930–1947.
 
“Recollections of Incidents of the Revolution: General Jeremiah
Johnson.”Journal of Long Island History. Vol. XII, No. 2 (Spring
1976).
 
Robertson, Archibald.Archibald Robertson: His Diaries and
Sketches in America, 1762–1780. Edited by Harry Miller Lydenberg.
New York: New York Public Library, 1930.
 
Rowe, John.Letters and Diary of John Rowe, Boston Merchant,
1759–1762, 1764–1779. Edited by Anne Rowe Cunningham.
Boston: W. B. Clarke Co., 1903.
 
Sargent, Winthrop, ed. “Letters of John Andrews, Esq. of Boston:
1772–1776.” Cambridge, Eng.: Press of J. Wilson & Sons, 1866.
 
Scull, G. D., ed.Memoir and Letters of Captain W. Glanville
Evelyn, 1747–1776. Oxford, Eng.: James Parker & Co., 1879.

Page 444
Page 444
Serle, Ambrose.The American Journal of Ambrose Serle,
Secretary to Lord Howe, 1776–1778. Edited by Edward H. Tatum, Jr.
San Marino, Calif.: Huntington Library, 1940.
 
Sleeper, Moses.Diary of a Soldier, June 1775–September 1776.
Longfellow House National Historic Site, Cambridge, Mass.
 
Stabler, Lois K., ed.Very Poor and of a Lo Make: The Journal of
Abner Sanger. Portsmouth, N.H.: Historical Society of Cheshire
County, 1986.
 
Stark, John.Memoir and Official Correspondence of General John
Stark. Edited by Caleb Stark. Boston: Gregg Press, 1972.
 
Stiles, Ezra.The Literary Diary of Ezra Stiles: President of Yale
College. Edited by Franklin Bowditch Dexter. Vols. I–II. New York:
Scribner, 1901.
 
Tallmadge, Benjamin.Memoir of Colonel Benjamin Tallmadge.
New York: Arno Press, 1968.
 
Thacher, James, M.D.Military Journal During the American
Revolution, 17750–1783. Boston: Richardson & Lord, 1823.
 
Trumbull, Benjamin. “Journal of the Campaign at New York,
1776–1777.”Collections of the Connecticut Historical Society. Vol. VII
(1899).
 
Tudor, John.Deacon Tudor’s Diary. Boston: Press of W. Spooner,
1896.
 
Washington, George.The Diaries of George Washington, 1780–
1781. Vol. III. Edited by Donald Jackson. Charlottesville: University
Press of Virginia, 1978.

Page 445
Page 445
Webb, Samuel Blachley.Correspondence and Journals of Samuel
Blachley Webb: 1772–1777. Vol. I. Edited by Worthington Chauncey
Ford. Lancaster, Pa.: Wickersham Press, 1893.
 
———.Family Letters of Samuel Blachley Webb, 1764–1807.
Edited by Worthington Chauncey Ford. New York: Cambridge
University Press, 1912.
 
Wilkinson, General James.Memoirs of My Own Times. Vol. I.
Philadelphia: Abraham Small, 1816.
 
Williams, Elisha. “Elisha Williams’ Diary of 1776.”Pennsylvania
Magazine of History and Biography. Vol. XLVIII (1924).

Page 446
Page 446
Articles
 
Anderson, Fred W. “The Hinge of the Revolution: George
Washington Confronts a People’s Army, July 3,
1775.”Massachusetts Historical Review. Vol. I (1999).
 
Baker, William S. “Itinerary of General Washington from June 15,
1775, to December 23, 1783.”Pennsylvania Magazine of History and
Biography. Vol. XIV, No. 2 (1890).
 
“British Officer in Boston 1775.”Atlantic Monthly. April 1877.
 
Brookhiser, Richard. “A Man on Horseback.”Atlantic Monthly.
January 1996.
 
Brown, Wallace. “An Englishman Views the American Revolution:
The Letters of Henry Hulton, 1769–1776.”Huntington Library
Quarterly. Vol. XXXVI (1972–1973).
 
“The Capture of Fort Washington, New York. Described by Cpt.
Andreas Wiederhold.”Pennsylvania Magazine of History and
Biography. Vol. XXIII (1899).
 
“Contemporaneous Account of the Battle of
Trenton,Pennsylvania Evening Post, December 28,
1776.”Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography. Vol. IV
(1880).
 
Conway, Stephen. “From Fellow-Nationals to Foreigners: British
Perceptions of the Americans, circa 1739–1783.”William and Mary
Quarterly. 3rd series. Vol. LIX, No. 1 (January 2002).
 
Davis, General W. W. H. “Washington on the West Bank of the
Delaware 1776.”Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography.
Vol. IV, No. 2 (1980).

Page 447
Page 447
Delancy, E. F. “Mount Washington and Its Capture on the 16th of
November, 1776.”Magazine of American History. Vol. I (February
1877).
 
Gelb, Norman. “Winter of Discontent.”Smithsonian Magazine.
May 2003.
 
Gordon, Reverend William. Letters,Proceedings of the
Massachusetts Historical Society. Vol. LX (October 1926–June
1927).
 
Greene, George Washington. “Major-General Nathanael
Greene.”Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography. Vol. II
(1878).
 
Gruber, Ira. D. “Lord Howe and Lord George Germain: British
Politics and the Winning of American Independence.”William and
Mary Quarterly. 3rd series. Vol. XXII, No. 2 (April 1965).
 
Heathcote, Charles William. “General Israel Putnam.”Picket Post
(Valley Forge Historical Society). February 1963.
 
“House of Lords and the House of Commons.”Mirror of Literature,
Amusement, and Instruction. No. 688 (November 1, 1834).
 
Ketchum, Richard M. “Men of the Revolution: Israel
Putnam.”American Heritage. Vol. XXIV (June 1973).
 
Koke, Richard J. “Forcing the Hudson River Passing.”New-York
Historical Society Quarterly. Vol. XXXVI (October 1952).
 
Kranish, Michael. “Washington Reconstructed.”Boston Globe,
February 17, 2002.
 
Kurtz, Henry I. “Victory on Dorchester Heights.”American History
Illustrated. Vol. IV (December 1969).

Page 448
Page 448
“Late House of Commons and Antiquities of St. Stephen’s
Chapel.”Mirror of Literature, Amusement, and Instruction. No. 690
(November 8, 1834).
 
“Letter of Reverend William Gordon to Samuel Wilcon, April 6,
1776.”Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical Society. Vol. LX
(1926–1927).
 
“Letters from a Hessian Mercenary.”Pennsylvania Magazine of
History and Biography. Vol. LXII, No. 4 (October 1938).
 
“Letters Written During the Revolutionary War by Colonel William
Douglas to His Wife Covering the Period July 19, 1775, to December
5, 1775.”New-York Historical Society Bulletin. Vols. XII–XIII (January
1929–January 1930).
 
Luther, F. S. “General Israel Putnam.”Proceedings of the
Worcester Society of Antiquity for the Year 1904. Vol. XX, No. 4
(1905).
 
“Major General John Thomas.”Proceedings of the Massachusetts
Historical Society. 2nd series. Vol. XVIII (1903–1904).
 
“Occupation of New York City by the British.”Pennsylvania
Magazine of History and Biography. Vol. IV (1980).
 
Paltsits, Victor Hugo. “The Jeopardy of Washington, September
15, 1776.”New-York Historical Society Quarterly. Vol. XXXII (October
1948).
 
Pogue, Dennis J. “General Washington: One of the Wealthiest
Men in American History?” Mount Vernon Library (2002).
 
Powell, William S. “A Connecticut Soldier Writing Home: Elisha
Bostwick’s Memoirs of the First Years of the Revolution.”William and

Page 449
Page 449
Mary Quarterly. 3rd series. Vol. VI (1949).
 
R——, Sergeant. “Battle of Princeton.”Pennsylvania Magazine of
History and Biography. Vol. XX (1896).
 
“Sermon of Rev. John Rodgers, Jan. 14, 1776.”New York Times,
March 16, 2003.
 
Shelton, William Henry. “Nathan Hale Execution.”New York
Times, September 22, 1929.
 
Vernon-Jackson, H. O. H. “A Loyalist’s Wife: Letters of Mrs. Philip
Van Cortlandt, 1776–1777.”History Today. Vol. XIV (August 1964).
 
Wakin, Daniel J. “Pastor’s Call to Arms in 1776 Has Echoes in
2003.” New York Report inNew York Times, March 16, 2003.
 
Warren,———. “Uniform of the Revolutionary Army.”Proceedings
of the Massachusetts Historical Society. Vol. IV (1858–1860).
 
“Washington’s Headquarters in New York.”National Historical
Magazine. July 1944.
 
Wertenbaker, Thomas Jefferson. “The Battle of Princeton.” InThe
Princeton Battle Monument. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University
Press, 1922.
 
Whitehorne, Joseph. “Shepardstown and the Morgan-Stevenson
Companies.”Magazine of the Jefferson County Historical Society.
Vol. LVIII (December 1992).

Page 450
Page 450
Newspapers and Journals

Page 451
Page 451
Boston Gazette

Page 452
Page 452
Boston Newsletter

Page 453
Page 453
Boston Transcript
 
Connecticut Gazette and Universal Intelligencer(New London)
 
Connecticut Journal(New Haven)
 
Essex Gazette(Salem, Mass.)
 
Essex Journal(Newburyport, Mass.)
 
Freeman’s Journal(Philadelphia)
 
Gentleman’s Magazine(London)
 
Hartford(Connecticut)Courant and Weekly Intelligencer
 
Lloyd’s Evening Post and British Chronicle(London)

Page 454
Page 454
London Chronicle

Page 455
Page 455
London Gazette
 
London Gazette and New Daily Advertiser

Page 456
Page 456
London General Evening Post

Page 457
Page 457
London Public Advertiser
 
Massachusetts Gazette and Boston Weekly Newsletter
 
Massachusetts Spy(Boston)
 
Mirror of Literature, Amusement, and Instruction(London)

Page 458
Page 458
Morning Chronicle and London Advertiser
 
New England Chronicle and Essex Gazette(Cambridge, Mass.)

Page 459
Page 459
New Haven Journal
 
Newport(Rhode Island)Mercury

Page 460
Page 460
New York Constitutional Gazette

Page 461
Page 461
New York Gazette
 
New-York Packet

Page 462
Page 462
New York Sun
 
Pennsylvania Evening Post(Philadelphia)
 
Pennsylvania Gazette(Philadelphia)
 
Pennsylvania Journal and Weekly Advertiser(Philadelphia)
 
Pennsylvania Packet(Philadelphia)

Page 463
Page 463
Providence Gazette
 
St. James’s Chronicle(London)
 
Universal Magazine(London)
 
Virginia Gazette(Williamsburg)

Page 464
Page 464
Photographs & Maps
Contents - Prev / Next
 
 
1
 
King George III by Johann Zoffany. Crowned in 1760, at age
twenty-two, George III had ruled for fifteen years by the time he went
before Parliament in late 1775 to declare the American colonies in
rebellion and affirm his resolve to bring them to heel. In this 1771
portrait he is portrayed as a robust, dutiful man of substance, which,
in fact, he was, as well as considerably more acute and
accomplished than history has often remembered him.

Page 465
Page 465
Lord George Germain by George Romney. Appointed by the King
as Secretary of the American colonies in the late autumn of 1775,
Lord Germain stood in marked contrast to the very unwarlike Prime
Minister, Lord North. A soldier and politician, Germain was proud,
commanding, and keenly intelligent. The American rebellion could
best be resolved, he believed, with one “decisive blow.”

Page 466
Page 466
Edmund Burke, from a caricature by James Sayers. Of those
sympathetic to the American cause, Edmund Burke was preeminent,
his speeches among the most eloquent ever heard in the House of
Commons. But Burke and others of like mind were a decided
minority, and even he spoke of the American colonies as “our”
colonies.

Page 467
Page 467
Frederick, Lord North, by Nathaniel Dance. Instinctively obliging,
liked by all in Parliament, the Prime Minister, Lord North, had little
heart for the war in America, yet dutifully served his King, who called
North his “sheet anchor.”

Page 468
Page 468
George Washington by Charles Willson Peale. One of the
strongest, most characteristic portraits ever done of Washington was
this by Peale, painted in 1787, a dozen years after Washington first
took command at Cambridge at age 43. With his height (six feet, two
inches) and his beautifully tailored military attire, the commander-in-
chief was easy to distinguish in an army where almost no one was
as tall and few had even a semblance of a uniform. A leader, he
believed, ought both to act and look the part.

Page 469
Page 469
Joseph Reed by Charles Willson Peale. Of those on his
immediate staff, his military “family” as he called it, Washington
prized especially Joseph Reed, a talented young Philadelphia
attorney who served as secretary and became his closest confidant.
Reed’s admiration for his commander was boundless.

Page 470
Page 470
In this excerpt from one of a series of private letters to Reed,
Washington expressed his ardent wish for Reed to return to help
him. “It is absolutely necessary…for me to have persons that can
think for me, as well as execute orders,” Washington wrote on
January 23, 1776.

Page 471
Page 471
General Nathanael Greene by Charles Willson Peale. Greene of
Rhode Island, a handsome, good-natured Quaker who walked with a
limp, knew little of military life other than what he had read in books,
when, at thirty-three, he became the youngest brigadier general in
the American army. With experience, he would stand second only to
Washington. The portrait is one of Peale’s “Gallery of Great Men.”

Page 472
Page 472
General John Sullivan by Richard Morrell Staigg. An ambitious
New Hampshire politician turned soldier, Sullivan had courage and
tenacity, but nothing like Greene’s ability.

Page 473
Page 473
General Israel Putnam by John Trumbull. Indomitable, popular
“Old Put” of Connecticut was afraid of nothing but unsuited for the
multiple responsibilities of a large command.

Page 474
Page 474
William Alexander, Lord Stirling by Bass Otis. The only American
general to claim a title, Stirling of New Jersey led his small force at
Brooklyn with extraordinary valor.

Page 475
Page 475
Captain C. W. Peale self-portrait. To please his wife, the artist
painted himself in his new Pennsylvania militia uniform.

Page 476
Page 476
Thomas and Sarah Mifflin in a portrait by John Singleton Copley.
Especially during the escape from Brooklyn, Thomas Mifflin proved
to be one of the best officers in Washington’s command.

Page 477
Page 477
General Henry Knox by Charles Willson Peale. Big, gregarious,
artilleryman Knox, the former Boston bookseller, was, like his friend
Nathanael Greene, a man of marked ability, which Washington saw
from the start. Under the most trying conditions, through the darkest
hours, Knox proved an outstanding leader, capable of accomplishing
almost anything, and, like Greene, he remained steadfastly loyal to
Washington.

Page 478
Page 478
Map 1. The “situation” at Boston as drawn by a British army
engineer in October 1775.

Page 479
Page 479
Map 2. A detail from a 1776 British map of the battles of Brooklyn
and New York shows British movements in red, American in green.

Page 480
Page 480
Map 3. A 1777 British map of the battles of Trenton and
Princeton.

Page 481
Page 481
John Adams, Roger Sherman, Robert R. Livingston, Thomas
Jefferson, and Benjamin Franklin, in a detail from theDeclaration of
Independence 4 July 1776 by John Trumbull.

Page 482
Page 482
The Washington Family by Edward Savage. A post-war print
depicts the commander-in-chief at home at Mt. Vernon, surrounded
by his wife, Martha, and her grandchildren, Eleanor Custis and
George Washington Parke Custis, and the slave William Lee, who
served at Washington’s side through the war. The elegance of the
general’s world was in sharp contrast to the ragtag army he led in
1776. The cartoon, a British rendition of a representative Yankee
patriot, is not widely different from Washington’s own privately
expressed view.

Page 483
Page 483
Washington’s headquarters through the Siege of Boston was a
Cambridge mansion that still stands, now known as the Longfellow
House.

Page 484
Page 484
General William Howe, who belonged to one of England’s most
influential families, was a courageous professional soldier but
inclined to dawdle when there was no action. The daring mission by
the young amateur artilleryman Henry Knox, to bring the guns of
Ticonderoga to Dorchester Heights, took Howe completely by
surprise.

Page 485
Page 485
A big man of big ideas, Knox liked to advertise the “very large”
selections of his London Book-Store in Boston with advertisements
displaying his own name written largest of all.

Page 486
Page 486
A page from Knox’s diary kept through the epic winter expedition
to Ticonderoga and back is shown in its actual size. Here he writes
of climbing peaks in the Berkshires “from which we might almost
have seen all the kingdoms of the earth.” The date was January 10,
1776.

Page 487
Page 487
The British evacuation of Boston began before daylight, Sunday,
March 17, 1776. Cannon were spiked or dumped in the harbor, as
nearly 9,000 of the King’s troops, and 1,100 Loyalists went aboard
British ships bound for Halifax. Americans on shore witnessing the
spectacle were cheering and weeping. “Surely it is the Lord’s doing,”
wrote Abigail Adams.

Page 488
Page 488
Among the Loyalists who fled were many of Boston’s leading
citizens, like Justice Peter Oliver. The majority, however, were from
every walk of life, farmers and tradesmen, who, firm in their loyalty to
the King, considered themselves true patriots.

Page 489
Page 489
Washington generously conferred the honor of leading the
American troops into Boston to the Massachusetts general, Artemus
Ward, shown at left in a portrait by Charles Willson Peale.

Page 490
Page 490
Before the British set sail for the open sea, two of their engineers,
Captains John Montresor and Archibald Robertson, blew up Castle
William in Boston Harbor. The scene below was drawn by
Robertson, who had done numerous sketches in and around Boston
and kept a diary all through the Siege.

Page 491
Page 491
The British armada that sailed into New York Harbor in early
summer, 1776, numbered more than 400 ships. It was the largest
naval force ever seen in American waters, the largest sent out from
the British Isles to defeat a distant foe. With no fighting ships of their
own, the Americans faced an almost impossible task of defending
against such might.

Page 492
Page 492
General Henry Clinton was neither impressive in appearance nor
easy for his fellow British commanders to work with, but his plan for
a night flanking movement on Brooklyn succeeded brilliantly. Had
Clinton’s overall strategy for defeating the Americans been adopted,
the outcome of the year’s campaign might have been different.

Page 493
Page 493
The fury of the first great battle of the war—and the first colossal
defeat for the Continental Army—at Brooklyn on August 27, 1776, is
dramatically portrayed in a painting by Alonzo Chappel. In the
distance at left, Lord Stirling leads a few hundred Marylanders in a
brave attack on the British lines, while in the right foreground other
American troops in desperate retreat plunge into Gowanus Creek.

Page 494
Page 494
The night escape of the American army from Brooklyn, across
the East River, could never have succeeded without the intrepid
Marblehead mariners who manned the boats. The pencil sketch of
their commander, Colonel John Glover, is by John Trumbull.

Page 495
Page 495
In a single night, 9,000 troops, plus equipment and horses, were
transported across a mile of turbulent water to New York, without the
British ever knowing and without the loss of a single life. In a print by
M. A. Wageman, Washington is shown directing the exodus at the
Brooklyn ferry landing.

Page 496
Page 496
A German engraving of the burning of New York, September 20,
1776, shows great drama but little knowledge of what the city looked
like. The British blamed the fire on “lurking” American villains.
Washington wrote, “Providence, or some good honest fellow, has
done more for us than we were disposed to do for ourselves.”

Page 497
Page 497
A British flotilla, led byPhoenix andRoebuck, defies the American
guns of Fort Lee and Fort Washington to sail up the Hudson on
October 9, 1776. The painting by a French marine artist, Dominic
Serres, makes the Hudson look narrower—and thus the ships larger
—than in reality.

Page 498
Page 498
One of the most revealing of the many diaries kept by American
soldiers in 1776 was that of Lieutenant Jabez Fitch, a Connecticut
farmer who recorded his experiences through one ordeal after
another, including his time as a prisoner of war. The page at left,
from August 28, records how, unexpectedly, the British general
James Grant gave the famished prisoners “two quarters of mutton
well cooked,” and, from August 29, that the prisoners are to be put
aboard a ship.

Page 499
Page 499
Captured Americans by the thousands were crowded aboard
rotting British prison ships anchored in New York Harbor, where they
were to perish by the thousands, mostly from disease.

Page 500
Page 500
Grossly fat and contemptuous of Americans, the British general
James Grant was also capable of small kindnesses to prisoners like
Jabez Fitch (see diary at left) and wrote particularly vivid letters
describing the campaign of 1776 from the British point of view.

Page 501
Page 501
British troops commanded by General Cornwallis scaled the
Hudson River Palisades November 20, 1776, in a watercolor
attributed to Lord Rawdon. In fact, this daring British move on New
Jersey took place in the dead of night, not in daylight as shown.

Page 502
Page 502
Charles Cornwallis by Thomas Gainsborough. The most popular
British general serving in America, Cornwallis had shown himself to
be enterprising and aggressive. On November 25, 1776, with 10,000
men, he set off across New Jersey determined, he said, to catch
Washington as a hunter bags a fox. The one looming uncertainty
was the whereabouts of Charles Lee, the eccentric British general
turned American patriot who was thought to be a more adroit and
dangerous foe than Washington. a caricature of Lee with one of his
numerous dogs.

Page 503
Page 503
A war of words came to a crescendo during the long retreat of
Washington’s battered army across New Jersey. A Proclamation
issued by Admiral Lord Richard Howe on November 30, 1776,
offered pardon to all Americans who would take an allegiance to the
King, and throngs in New Jersey flocked to British camps to sign
their names. By contrast, Thomas Paine’sThe American Crisis,
which appeared on December 23, was a powerful summons to
American patriotism second only to hisCommon Sense . Page one
with its immortal opening lines is shown at left.

Page 504
Page 504
The Capture of the Hessians at Trenton, New Jersey, 26
December 1776by John Trumbull. Though the ceremony portrayed
in Trumbull’s great, stylized painting, with the mortally wounded
Hessian commander, Colonel Johann Rall, surrendering before
George Washington, never happened, and no one after the battle
looked so costume-perfect, the principals are all readily indentifiable
(see key below), and the high drama of Trumbull’s scene was
considered in the eighteenth century entirely suitable for the
American triumph at Trenton, one of the turning points of the war.

Page 505
Page 505
A rapid sketch by John Trumbull, one of several preliminary
studies, shows General Hugh Mercer being bayonetted in the fury of
the Battle of Princeton.

Page 506
Page 506
KEY
 
1. Colonel Johann Gottlieb Rall
 
2. Colonel William Stevens Smith, aide-de-camp to Major
General Sullivan
 
3. Colonel Robert Hanson Harrison, Military Secretary to
Washington
 
4. Captain Tench Tilghman, Military
Secretary to Washington
 
5. General George Washington
 
6. Major General John Sullivan

Page 507
Page 507
7. Major General Nathanael Greene
 
8. Captain William Washington
 
9. Brigadier General Henry Knox

Page 508
Page 508
Washington at the Battle of Princeton by Charles Willson Peale.
Painted in 1779, this full-length portrait became immediately popular,
and Peale produced a number of replicas, one of which was ordered
as a present for the King of France. The sash Washington wears is
the light blue insignia he chose as commander-in-chief beginning
with the summer of 1775. Nassau Hall at Princeton is shown on the
distant horizon on the left.

Page 509
Page 509

Page 510
Page 510
As the war continued after 1776, Nathanael Greene wrote
prophetically of Washington’s singular place in history as the
“deliverer of his country.”

Page 511
Page 511
Also By David McCullough
Contents - Prev / Next
 
Also by David McCullough
 
John Adams
 
Truman
 
Brave Companions
 
Mornings on Horseback
 
The Path Between the Seas
 
The Great Bridge
 
The Johnstown Flood

Page 512
Page 512
Copyright
Contents - Prev / Next
 
SIMON&SCHUSTER
Rockefeller Center
1230 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10020
 
Copyright © 2005 by David McCullough All rights reserved,
including the right of reproduction in whole or in part in any form.
 
SIMON&SCHUSTER and colophon are registered trademarks of
Simon & Schuster, Inc.
 
Designed by Amy Hill
 
Endpapers:(Front) View of Boston Harbor;(back) the Royal Navy
in New York Harbor; both by British Captain Archibald Robertson
 
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
 
McCullough, David G.
1776 / David McCullough.
 
p. cm.
Includes bibliographical references (p.) and index.
1. United States–History—Revolution, 1775–1783.
I. Title: Seventeen seventy-six. II. Title.

Page 513
Page 513
E208.M396 2005
973.3—dc22 2005042505
ISBN: 0-7432-8770-3
 
Picture Credits
 
The maps at the end of the color insert are courtesy of the Library
of Congress. Other illustrations are courtesy of the following:
 
American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: 28,
p. 199. Author’s collection: iv. Boston Gazette: 6. British Museum,
London, England: 19. The Brooklyn Historical Society: 14. Clements
Library, University of Michigan: 1, 5, 18, 35, 36. Emmett Collection,
New York Public Library/Art Resource: 3. Frick Art Reference Library,
New York: 9. Independence National Historical Park: 10, 22, 24, 25,
27, 30. John Carter Brown Library, Providence, Rhode Island: 23.
Mariner’s Museum, Newport News, Virginia: 12. Massachusetts
Historical Society: 7. The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Bequest of
Charles Allen Munn, 1924: 2. Morristown, New Jersey, National
Historical Park: 32. National Portrait Gallery, London, England: 20,
38. Naval Academy Museum, Annapolis, Maryland: 33. Collection of
the New-York Historical Society: 8. New York Public Library/Art
Resource, NY: front and back endpapers, 4, 11, 15, 16, 34, 37, 39,
40, 41. Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, Bequest of Mrs. Sarah Harrison, the Joseph Harrison,
Jr., Collection: 21; and Gift of Maria McKean Allen and Phebe
Warren Downes, through the bequest of their mother, Elizabeth
Wharton McKean: 44. Pennsylvania Museum of Art: 29. Pierpont
Morgan Library, New York: 45. Princeton University Library,
Department of Rare Books and Special Collections: 43. R. W. Norton
Art Gallery, Shreveport, Louisiana: 13. The Royal Collection, © 2004,
Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II: 17. Wadsworth  
Atheneum Museum of Art, Hartford, Connecticut, lent by the
Putnam Phalanx: 26. Winterthur Museum, p. 1. Yale University Art
Gallery: 16, 31, 42.

Page 514
Page 514
Visit us on the World Wide Web: http://www.SimonSays.com

Page 515
Page 515
Scan and Proof Notes
Contents - Prev 
 
[ Release Notes ] 
[ Released as V.1.0 10/11/2005 ] 
[ HTML, RTF, RB formats ]  
[ Scanned and proofed annon. ] 
[ Annotations removed ] 
[ If errors found, correct and increase version by .01 and re-release ] 
[LM]

1776
1776
Page 1
Page 2
Page 3
Page 4
Page 5
Page 6
Page 7
Page 8
Page 9
Page 10
Page 11
Page 12
Page 13
Page 14
Page 15
Page 16
Page 17
Page 18
Page 19
Page 20
Page 21
Page 22
Page 23
Page 24
Page 25
Page 26
Page 27
Page 28
Page 29
Page 30
Page 31
Page 32
Page 33
Page 34
Page 35
Page 36
Page 37
Page 38
Page 39
Page 40
Page 41
Page 42
Page 43
Page 44
Page 45
Page 46
Page 47
Page 48
Page 49
Page 50
Page 51
Page 52
Page 53
Page 54
Page 55
Page 56
Page 57
Page 58
Page 59
Page 60
Page 61
Page 62
Page 63
Page 64
Page 65
Page 66
Page 67
Page 68
Page 69
Page 70
Page 71
Page 72
Page 73
Page 74
Page 75
Page 76
Page 77
Page 78
Page 79
Page 80
Page 81
Page 82
Page 83
Page 84
Page 85
Page 86
Page 87
Page 88
Page 89
Page 90
Page 91
Page 92
Page 93
Page 94
Page 95
Page 96
Page 97
Page 98
Page 99
Page 100
Page 101
Page 102
Page 103
Page 104
Page 105
Page 106
Page 107
Page 108
Page 109
Page 110
Page 111
Page 112
Page 113
Page 114
Page 115
Page 116
Page 117
Page 118
Page 119
Page 120
Page 121
Page 122
Page 123
Page 124
Page 125
Page 126
Page 127
Page 128
Page 129
Page 130
Page 131
Page 132
Page 133
Page 134
Page 135
Page 136
Page 137
Page 138
Page 139
Page 140
Page 141
Page 142
Page 143
Page 144
Page 145
Page 146
Page 147
Page 148
Page 149
Page 150
Page 151
Page 152
Page 153
Page 154
Page 155
Page 156
Page 157
Page 158
Page 159
Page 160
Page 161
Page 162
Page 163
Page 164
Page 165
Page 166
Page 167
Page 168
Page 169
Page 170
Page 171
Page 172
Page 173
Page 174
Page 175
Page 176
Page 177
Page 178
Page 179
Page 180
Page 181
Page 182
Page 183
Page 184
Page 185
Page 186
Page 187
Page 188
Page 189
Page 190
Page 191
Page 192
Page 193
Page 194
Page 195
Page 196
Page 197
Page 198
Page 199
Page 200
Page 201
Page 202
Page 203
Page 204
Page 205
Page 206
Page 207
Page 208
Page 209
Page 210
Page 211
Page 212
Page 213
Page 214
Page 215
Page 216
Page 217
Page 218
Page 219
Page 220
Page 221
Page 222
Page 223
Page 224
Page 225
Page 226
Page 227
Page 228
Page 229
Page 230
Page 231
Page 232
Page 233
Page 234
Page 235
Page 236
Page 237
Page 238
Page 239
Page 240
Page 241
Page 242
Page 243
Page 244
Page 245
Page 246
Page 247
Page 248
Page 249
Page 250
Page 251
Page 252
Page 253
Page 254
Page 255
Page 256
Page 257
Page 258
Page 259
Page 260
Page 261
Page 262
Page 263
Page 264
Page 265
Page 266
Page 267
Page 268
Page 269
Page 270
Page 271
Page 272
Page 273
Page 274
Page 275
Page 276
Page 277
Page 278
Page 279
Page 280
Page 281
Page 282
Page 283
Page 284
Page 285
Page 286
Page 287
Page 288
Page 289
Page 290
Page 291
Page 292
Page 293
Page 294
Page 295
Page 296
Page 297
Page 298
Page 299
Page 300
Page 301
Page 302
Page 303
Page 304
Page 305
Page 306
Page 307
Page 308
Page 309
Page 310
Page 311
Page 312
Page 313
Page 314
Page 315
Page 316
Page 317
Page 318
Page 319
Page 320
Page 321
Page 322
Page 323
Page 324
Page 325
Page 326
Page 327
Page 328
Page 329
Page 330
Page 331
Page 332
Page 333
Page 334
Page 335
Page 336
Page 337
Page 338
Page 339
Page 340
Page 341
Page 342
Page 343
Page 344
Page 345
Page 346
Page 347
Page 348
Page 349
Page 350
Page 351
Page 352
Page 353
Page 354
Page 355
Page 356
Page 357
Page 358
Page 359
Page 360
Page 361
Page 362
Page 363
Page 364
Page 365
Page 366
Page 367
Page 368
Page 369
Page 370
Page 371
Page 372
Page 373
Page 374
Page 375
Page 376
Page 377
Page 378
Page 379
Page 380
Page 381
Page 382
Page 383
Page 384
Page 385
Page 386
Page 387
Page 388
Page 389
Page 390
Page 391
Page 392
Page 393
Page 394
Page 395
Page 396
Page 397
Page 398
Page 399
Page 400
Page 401
Page 402
Page 403
Page 404
Page 405
Page 406
Page 407
Page 408
Page 409
Page 410
Page 411
Page 412
Page 413
Page 414
Page 415
Page 416
Page 417
Page 418
Page 419
Page 420
Page 421
Page 422
Page 423
Page 424
Page 425
Page 426
Page 427
Page 428
Page 429
Page 430
Page 431
Page 432
Page 433
Page 434
Page 435
Page 436
Page 437
Page 438
Page 439
Page 440
Page 441
Page 442
Page 443
Page 444
Page 445
Page 446
Page 447
Page 448
Page 449
Page 450
Page 451
Page 452
Page 453
Page 454
Page 455
Page 456
Page 457
Page 458
Page 459
Page 460
Page 461
Page 462
Page 463
Page 464
Page 465
Page 466
Page 467
Page 468
Page 469
Page 470
Page 471
Page 472
Page 473
Page 474
Page 475
Page 476
Page 477
Page 478
Page 479
Page 480
Page 481
Page 482
Page 483
Page 484
Page 485
Page 486
Page 487
Page 488
Page 489
Page 490
Page 491
Page 492
Page 493
Page 494
Page 495
Page 496
Page 497
Page 498
Page 499
Page 500
Page 501
Page 502
Page 503
Page 504
Page 505
Page 506
Page 507
Page 508
Page 509
Page 510
Page 511
Page 512
Page 513
Page 514
Page 515