
Finance
McGraw−Hill Primis
ISBN: 0−390−32000−5
Text: 
 
Corporate Finance, Sixth Edition
Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe
Corporate Fiance
David Whitehurst
UMIST
Volume 1
McGraw-Hill/Irwin


Finance
http://www.mhhe.com/primis/online/
Copyright ©2003 by The McGraw−Hill Companies, Inc. All rights 
reserved. Printed in the United States of America. Except as 
permitted under the United States Copyright Act of 1976, no part 
of this publication may be reproduced or distributed in any form 
or by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, 
without prior written permission of the publisher. 
 
This McGraw−Hill Primis text may include materials submitted to 
McGraw−Hill for publication by the instructor of this course. The 
instructor is solely responsible for the editorial content of such 
materials.
111
FINA
ISBN: 0−390−32000−5
This book was printed on recycled paper.

Finance
Volume 1
Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe  •  Corporate Finance, Sixth Edition 
Front Matter 
1
Preface 
1
I. Overview 
8
Introduction 
8
1. Introduction to Corporate Finance 
9
2. Accounting Statements and Cash Flow 
29
II. Value and Capital Budgeting 
51
Introduction 
51
3. Financial Markets and Net Present Value: First Principles of Finance 
(Adv.) 
52
4. Net Present Value 
72
5. How to Value Bonds and Stocks 
108
6. Some Alternative Investment Rules 
146
7. Net Present Value and Capital Budgeting 
175
8. Strategy and Analysis in Using Net Present Value 
206
III. Risk 
225
Introduction 
225
9. Capital Market Theory: An Overview 
226
10. Return and Risk: The Capital−Asset−Pricing Model 
248
11. An Alternative View of Risk and Return: The Arbitrage Pricing 
Theory 
291
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, and Capital Budgeting 
313
IV. Capital Structure and Dividend Policy 
343
Introduction 
343
13. Corporate−Financing Decisions and Efficient Capital Markets 
345
14. Long−Term Financing: An Introduction 
377
15. Capital Structure: Basic Concepts 
396
16. Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt 
428
17. Valuation and Capital Budgeting for the Levered Firm 
474
18. Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter? 
501
V. Long−Term Financing 
539
Introduction 
539
19. Issuing Securities to the Public 
540
iii

20. Long−Term Debt 
569
21. Leasing 
592
VI. Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance 
617
Introduction 
617
22. Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts 
618
23. Options and Corporate Finance: Extensions and Applications 
656
24. Warrants and Convertibles 
680
25. Derivatives and Hedging Risk 
701
VII. Financial Planning and Short−Term Finance 
736
Introduction 
736
26. Corporate Financial Models and Long−Term Planning 
737
27. Short−Term Finance and Planning 
751
28. Cash Management 
776
29. Credit Management 
803
VIII. Special Topics 
820
Introduction 
820
30. Mergers and Acquisitions 
821
31. Financial Distress 
859
32. International Corporate Finance 
877
iv

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Front Matter
Preface
1
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The teaching and the practicing of corporate finance are more challenging and exciting
than ever before. The last decade has seen fundamental changes in financial markets and
financial instruments. In the early years of the 21st century, we still see announcements in
the financial press about such matters as takeovers, junk bonds, financial restructuring, ini-
tial public offerings, bankruptcy, and derivatives. In addition, there is the new recognition
of “real” options (Chapters 21 and 22), private equity and venture capital (Chapter 19), and
the disappearing dividend (Chapter 18). The world’s financial markets are more integrated
than ever before. Both the theory and practice of corporate finance have been moving
ahead with uncommon speed, and our teaching must keep pace.
These developments place new burdens on the teaching of corporate finance. On one
hand, the changing world of finance makes it more difficult to keep materials up to date.
On the other hand, the teacher must distinguish the permanent from the temporary and
avoid the temptation to follow fads. Our solution to this problem is to emphasize the mod-
ern fundamentals of the theory of finance and make the theory come to life with contem-
porary examples. Increasingly, many of these examples are outside the United States. All
too often, the beginning student views corporate finance as a collection of unrelated topics
that are unified largely because they are bound together between the covers of one book.
As in the previous editions, our aim is to present corporate finance as the working of a
small number of integrated and powerful institutions.
THE INTENDED AUDIENCE OF THIS BOOK
This book has been written for the introductory courses in corporate finance at the MBA
level, and for the intermediate courses in many undergraduate programs. Some instructors
will find our text appropriate for the introductory course at the undergraduate level as well.
We assume that most students either will have taken, or will be concurrently enrolled in,
courses in accounting, statistics, and economics. This exposure will help students understand
some of the more difficult material. However, the book is self-contained, and a prior knowl-
edge of these areas is not essential. The only mathematics prerequisite is basic algebra.
NEW TO THE SIXTH EDITION
Following are the key revisions and updates to this edition:
• A complete update of all cost of capital discussions to emphasize its usefulness in
capital budgeting, primarily in Chapters 12 and 17.
Preface

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Front Matter
Preface
2
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Preface
vii
• A new appendix on performance evaluation and EVA in Chapter 12.
• A new section on liquidity and the cost of capital in Chapter 12.
• New evidence on efficient markets and CAPM in Chapter 13.
• New treatment on why firms choose different capital structures and dividend poli-
cies: the case of Qualcomm in Chapters 16 and 18.
• A redesign and rewrite of options and derivatives chapters into a new Part VI.
• Extension of options theory to mergers and acquisitions in Chapter 22.
• An expanded discussion of real options and their importance to capital budgeting in
Chapter 23.
• New material on carveouts, spinoffs, and tracking stocks in Chapter 30.
• Many new end-of-chapter problems throughout all chapters.
ATTENTION TO PEDAGOGY
Executive Summary
Each chapter begins with a “roadmap” that describes the objectives of the chapter and how
it connects with concepts already learned in previous chapters. Real company examples
that will be discussed are highlighted in this section.
Case Study
There are 10 case studies that are highlighted in the Sixth Edition that present situations
with real companies and how they rationalized the decisions they made to solve various
problems. They provide extended examples of the material covered in the chapter. The
cases are highlighted in the detailed Table of Contents.
In Their Own Words Boxes
Located throughout the Sixth Edition, this unique series consists of articles written by dis-
tinguished scholars or practitioners on key topics in the text. 
Concept Questions
Included after each major section in a chapter, Concept Questions point to essential mater-
ial and allow students to test their recall and comprehension before moving forward.
Key Terms 
Students will note that important words are highlighted in boldface type the first time they
appear. They are also listed at the end of the chapter, along with the page number on which
they first appear, as well as in the glossary at the end of the book.
Demonstration Problems
We have provided worked-out examples throughout the text to give students a clear under-
standing of the logic and structure of the solution process. These examples are clearly
called out in the text.
Highlighted Concepts
Throughout the text, important ideas are pulled out and presented in a copper box—signal-
ing to students that this material is particularly relevant and critical for their understanding.
Numbered Equations
Key equations are numbered and listed on the back end sheets for easy reference. 
The end of-chapter material reflects and builds on the concepts learned from the chap-
ter and study features:

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Front Matter
Preface
3
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Summary and Conclusions
The numbered summary provides a quick review of key concepts in the chapter.
List of Key Terms
A list of the boldfaced key terms with page numbers is included for easy reference.
Suggested Readings
Each chapter is followed by a short, annotated list of books and articles to which interest-
ed students can refer for additional information.
Questions and Problems
Because solving problems is so critical to a student’s learning, they have been revised, thor-
oughly reviewed, and accuracy-checked. The problem sets are graded for difficulty, moving
from easier problems intended to build confidence and skill to more difficult problems
designed to challenge the enthusiastic student. Problems have been grouped according to the
concepts they test on. Additionally, we have tried to make the problems in the critical “con-
cept” chapters, such as those on value, risk, and capital structure, especially challenging and
interesting. We provide answers to selected problems in Appendix B at the end of the book.
Minicase
This end-of-chapter feature, located in Chapters 12 and 30, parallels the Case Study feature
found in various chapters. These Minicases apply what is learned in a number of chapters
to a real-world type of scenario. After presenting the facts, the student is given guidance in
rationalizing a sound business decision.
SUPPLEMENTS PACKAGE
As with the text, developing supplements of extraordinary quality and utility was the pri-
mary objective. Each component in the supplement package underwent extensive review
and revision. 
FOR THE INSTRUCTOR
Instructor’s Manual (0-07-233882-2)
Prepared by John Stansfield, University of Missouri, Columbia, this instructor’s tool has
been thoroughly revised and updated. Each chapter includes a list of transparencies/
PowerPoint slides, a brief chapter outline, an introduction, and an annotated outline. The
annotated outline contains references to the transparencies/PowerPoint slides, additional
explanations and examples, and teaching tips.
PowerPoint Presentation System (0-07-233883-0)
This presentation system was developed in conjunction with the Instructor’s Manual by the
same author, allowing for a complete and integrated teaching package. These slides contain
useful outlines, summaries, and exhibits from the text. If you have PowerPoint installed on
your PC, you have the ability to edit, print, or rearrange the complete transparency presen-
tation to meet your specific needs.
Test Bank (0-07-233885-7)
The Test Bank, prepared by David Burnie, Western Michigan University, includes an aver-
age of 35 multiple-choice questions and problems per chapter, and 5 essay questions per
viii
Preface

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Front Matter
Preface
4
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Preface
ix
chapter. Each question is labeled with the level of difficulty. About 30–40 percent of these
problems are new or revised. 
Computerized Testing Software (0-07-233881-4)
This software includes an easy-to-use menu system which allows quick access to all the
powerful features available. The Keyword Search option lets you browse through the ques-
tion bank for problems containing a specific word or phrase. Password protection is avail-
able for saved tests or for the entire database. Questions can be added, modified, or deleted.
Available in Windows version.
Solutions Manual (0-07-233884-9)
The Solutions Manual, prepared by John A. Helmuth, University of Michigan, contains
worked-out solutions for all of the problems, and has been thoroughly reviewed for accu-
racy. The Solutions Manual is also available to be purchased for your students.
Instructor CD-ROM (0-07-246238-8)
You can receive all of the supplements in an electronic format! The Instructor’s Manual,
PowerPoint, Test Bank, and Solutions Manual are all together on one convenient CD. The
interface provides the instructor with a self-contained program that allows him or her to
arrange the visual resources into his or her own presentation and add additional files as well. 
Videos (0-07-250741-1)
These finance videos are 10-minute case studies on topics such as Financial Markets,
Careers, Rightsizing, Capital Budgeting, EVA (Economic Value Added), Mergers and
Acquisitions, and International Finance. Questions to accompany these videos can be
found on the book’s Online Learning Center.
FOR THE STUDENTS
Standard & Poor’s Educational Version of Market Insight. If you purchased a new book,
you will have received a free passcode card that will give you access to the same company
and industry data that industry experts use. See www.mhhe.com/edumarketinsight for
details on this exclusive partnership!
PowerWeb
If you purchased a new book, free access to PowerWeb—a dynamic supplement specific to
your corporate finance course—is also available. Included are three levels of resource
materials: articles from journals and magazines from the past year, weekly updates on cur-
rent issues, and links to current news of the day. Also available is a series of study aids,
such as quizzes, web links, and interactive exercises. See www.dushkin.com/powerweb for
more details and access to this valuable resource.
Student Problem Manual (0-07-233880-6)
Written by Robert Hanson, Eastern Michigan University, the Student Problem Manual is a
direct companion to the text. It is uniquely designed to involve the student in the learning
process. Each chapter contains a Mission Statement, an average of 20 fill-in-the-blank
Concept Test questions and answers, and an average of 15 problems and worked-out solu-
tions. This product can be purchased separately or packaged with the text.
Online Learning Center
Visit the full web resource now available with the Sixth Edition at www.mhhe.com/rwj. The
Information Center includes information on this new edition, and links for special offers.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Front Matter
Preface
5
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
x
Preface
The Instructor Center includes all of the teaching resources for the book, and the Student
Center includes free online study materials—such as quizzes, study outlines, and spread-
sheets—developed specifically for this edition. A feedback form is also available for your
questions and comments.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The plan for developing this edition began with a number of our colleagues who had an inter-
est in the book and regularly teach the MBA introductory course. We integrated their com-
ments and recommendations throughout the Sixth Edition. Contributors to this edition include:
R. Aggarwal, John Carroll University
Christopher Anderson, University of
Missouri–Columbia
James J. Angel, Georgetown University
Kevin Bahr, University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee
Michael Barry, Boston College
William O. Brown, Claremont McKenna College
Bill Callahan, Southern Methodist University
Steven Carvell, Cornell University
Indudeep S. Chhachhi, Western Kentucky
University
Jeffrey L. Coles, Arizona State University
Raymond Cox, Central Michigan University
John Crockett, George Mason University
Robert Duvic, The University of Texas at Austin
Steven Ferraro, Pepperdine University
Adlai Fisher, New York University
Yee-Tien Fu, Stanford University
Bruno Gerard, University of Southern California
Frank Ghannadian, Mercer University–Atlanta
John A. Helmuth, University of
Michigan–Dearborn
Edith Hotchkiss, Boston College
Charles Hu, Claremont McKenna College
Raymond Jackson, University of
Massachusetts–Dartmouth
Narayanan Jayaraman, Georgia Institute of
Technology
Dolly King, University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee
Ronald Kudla, The University of Akron
Dilip Kumar Patro, Rutgers University
Youngsik Kwak, Delaware State University
Youngho Lee, Howard University
Yulong Ma, Cal State—Long Beach
Richard Miller, Wesleyan University
Naval Modani, University of Central Florida
Robert Nachtmann, University of Pittsburgh
Edward Nelling, Georgia Tech
Gregory Niehaus, University of South Carolina
Ingmar Nyman, Hunter College
Venky Panchapagesan, Washington
University–St. Louis
Bulent Parker, University of Wisconsin–Madison
Christo Pirinsky, Ohio State University
Jeffrey Pontiff, University of Washington
N. Prabhala, Yale University
Mao Qiu, University of Utah–Salt Lake City
Latha Ramchand, University of Houston
Gabriel Ramirez, Virginia Commonwealth
University
Stuart Rosenstein, University of Colorado at
Denver
Bruce Rubin, Old Dominion University
Jaime Sabal, New York University
Andy Saporoschenko, University of Akron
William Sartoris, Indiana University
Faruk Selcuk, University of Bridgeport
Sudhir Singh, Frostburg State University
John S. Strong, College of William and Mary
Michael Sullivan, University of Nevada–Las Vegas
Andrew C. Thompson, Virginia Polytechnic
Institute
Karin Thorburn, Dartmouth College
Satish Thosar, University of
Massachusetts–Dorchester
Oscar Varela, University of New Orleans
Steven Venti, Dartmouth College
Susan White, University of Texas–Austin
Over the years, many others have contributed their time and expertise to the development and
writing of this text. We extend our thanks once again for their assistance and countless insights:

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Front Matter
Preface
6
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Preface
xi
James J. Angel, Georgetown University
Nasser Arshadi, University of Missouri–St. Louis
Robert Balik, Western Michigan University
John W. Ballantine, Babson College
Thomas Bankston, Angelo State University
Swati Bhatt, Rutgers University
Roger Bolton, Williams College
Gordon Bonner, University of Delaware
Brad Borber, University of California–Davis
Oswald Bowlin, Texas Technical University
Ronald Braswell, Florida State University
Kirt Butler, Michigan State University
Andreas Christofi, Pennsylvania State
University–Harrisburg
James Cotter, University of Iowa
Jay Coughenour, University of
Massachusetts–Boston
Arnold Cowan, Iowa State University
Mark Cross, Louisiana Technical University
Ron Crowe, Jacksonville University
William Damon, Vanderbilt University
Sudip Datta, Bentley College
Anand Desai, University of Florida
Miranda Lam Detzler, University of
Massachusetts–Boston
David Distad, University of California–Berkeley
Dennis Draper, University of Southern California
Jean-Francois Dreyfus, New York University
Gene Drzycimski, University of
Wisconsin–Oshkosh
Robert Eldridge, Fairfield University
Gary Emery, University of Oklahoma
Theodore Eytan, City University of New
York–Baruch College
Don Fehrs, University of Notre Dame
Andrew Fields, University of Delaware
Paige Fields, Texas A&M
Michael Fishman, Northwestern University
Michael Goldstein, University of Colorado
Indra Guertler, Babson College
James Haltiner, College of William and Mary
Delvin Hawley, University of Mississippi
Hal Heaton, Brigham Young University
John Helmuth, Rochester Institute of Technology
Michael Hemler, University of Notre Dame
Stephen Heston, Washington University
Andrea Heuson, University of Miami
Hugh Hunter, Eastern Washington University
James Jackson, Oklahoma State University
Prem Jain, Tulane University
Brad Jordan, University of Kentucky
Jarl Kallberg, New York University
Jonathan Karpoff, University of Washington
Paul Keat, American Graduate School of
International Management
Brian Kluger, University of Cincinnati
Narayana Kocherlakota, University of Iowa
Nelson Lacey, University of Massachusetts
Gene Lai, University of Rhode Island
Josef Lakonishok, University of Illinois
Dennis Lasser, SUNY–Binghamton
Paul Laux, Case Western Reserve University
Bong-Su Lee, University of Minnesota
James T. Lindley, University of Southern
Mississippi
Dennis Logue, Dartmouth College
Michael Long, Rutgers University
Ileen Malitz, Fairleigh Dickinson University
Terry Maness, Baylor University
Surendra Mansinghka, San Francisco State
University
Michael Mazzco, Michigan State University
Robert I. McDonald, Northwestern University
Hugh McLaughlin, Bentley College
Larry Merville, University of Texas–Richardson
Joe Messina, San Francisco State University
Roger Mesznik, City College of New
York–Baruch College
Rick Meyer, University of South Florida
Richard Mull, New Mexico State University
Jim Musumeci, Southern Illinois
University–Carbondale
Peder Nielsen, Oregon State University
Dennis Officer, University of Kentucky
Joseph Ogden, State University of New York
Ajay Patel, University of Missouri–Columbia
Glenn N. Pettengill, Emporia State University
Pegaret Pichler, University of Maryland
Franklin Potts, Baylor University
Annette Poulsen, University of Georgia
Latha Ramchand, University of Houston
Narendar Rao, Northeastern Illinois University
Steven Raymar, Indiana University
Stuart Rosenstein, Southern Illinois University

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Front Matter
Preface
7
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Patricia Ryan, Drake University
Anthony Sanders, Ohio State University
James Schallheim, University of Utah
Mary Jean Scheuer, California State University
at Northridge
Lemma Senbet, University of Maryland
Kuldeep Shastri, University of Pittsburgh
Scott Smart, Indiana University
Jackie So, Southern Illinois University
John Stansfield, Columbia College
A. Charlene Sullivan, Purdue University
Timothy Sullivan, Bentley College
R. Bruce Swensen, Adelphi University
Ernest Swift, Georgia State University
Alex Tang, Morgan State University
Richard Taylor, Arkansas State University
Timothy Thompson, Northwestern University
Charles Trzcinka, State University of New
York–Buffalo
Haluk Unal, University of Maryland–College Park
Avinash Verma, Washington University
Lankford Walker, Eastern Illinois University
Ralph Walkling, Ohio State University
F. Katherine Warne, Southern Bell College
Robert Whitelaw, New York University
Berry Wilson, Georgetown University
Thomas Zorn, University of Nebraska–Lincoln
Kent Zumwalt, Colorado State University
xii
Preface
For their help on the Sixth Edition, we would like to thank Linda De Angelo, Dennis
Draper, Kim Dietrich, Alan Shapiro, Harry De Angelo, Aris Protopapadakis, Anath
Madhevan, and Suh-Pyng Ku, all of the Marshall School of Business at the University of
Southern California. We also owe a debt of gratitude to Edward I. Altman, of New York
University; Robert S. Hansen, of Virginia Tech; and Jay Ritter, of the University of Florida,
who have provided several thoughtful comments and immeasurable help. 
Over the past three years, readers have provided assistance by detecting and reporting
errors. Our goal is to offer the best textbook available on the subject, so this information
was invaluable as we prepared the Sixth Edition. We want to ensure that all future editions
are error-free and therefore we will offer $10 per arithmetic error to the first individual
reporting it. Any arithmetic error resulting in subsequent errors will be counted double. All
errors should be reported using the Feedback Form on the Corporate Finance Online
Learning Center at www.mhhe.com/rwj.
In addition, Sandra Robinson and Wendy Wat have given significant assistance in
preparing the manuscript.
Finally, we wish to thank our families and friends, Carol, Kate, Jon, Jan, Mark, and
Lynne for their forbearance and help.
Stephen A. Ross
Randolph W. Westerfield
Jeffrey F. Jaffe

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
Introduction
8
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Overview
PART I
1 Introduction to Corporate Finance 2
2 Accounting Statements and Cash Flow 22
T
O engage in business the financial managers of a firm must find answers to three
kinds of important questions. First, what long-term investments should the firm take
on? This is the capital budgeting decision. Second, how can cash be raised for the re-
quired investments? We call this the financing decision. Third, how will the firm man-
age its day-to-day cash and financial affairs? These decisions involve short-term finance
and concern net working capital.
In Chapter 1 we discuss these important questions, briefly introducing the basic
ideas of this book and describing the nature of the modern corporation and why it has
emerged as the leading form of the business firm. Using the set-of-contracts perspective,
the chapter discusses the goals of the modern corporation. Though the goals of share-
holders and managers may not always be the same, conflicts usually will be resolved in
favor of the shareholders. Finally, the chapter reviews some of the salient features of
modern financial markets. This preliminary material will be familiar to students who
have some background in accounting, finance, and economics.
Chapter 2 examines the basic accounting statements. It is review material for stu-
dents with an accounting background. We describe the balance sheet and the income
statement. The point of the chapter is to show the ways of converting data from ac-
counting statements into cash flow. Understanding how to identify cash flow from ac-
counting statements is especially important for later chapters on capital budgeting.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
9
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Introduction to 
Corporate Finance
CHAPTER 1
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
T
he Video Product Company designs and manufactures very popular software for
video game consoles. The company was started in 1999, and soon thereafter its game
“Gadfly” appeared on the cover of Billboard magazine. Company sales in 2000 were
over $20 million. Video Product’s initial financing of $2 million came from Seed Ltd., a
venture-capital firm, in exchange for a 15-percent equity stake in the company. Now the fi-
nancial management of Video Product realizes that its initial financing was too small. In the
long run Video Product would like to expand its design activity to the education and busi-
ness areas. It would also like to significantly enhance its website for future Internet sales.
However, at present the company has a short-run cash flow problem and cannot even buy
$200,000 of materials to fill its holiday orders.
Video Product’s experience illustrates the basic concerns of corporate finance:
1. What long-term investment strategy should a company take on?
2. How can cash be raised for the required investments?
3. How much short-term cash flow does a company need to pay its bills?
These are not the only questions of corporate finance. They are, however, among the most
important questions and, taken in order, they provide a rough outline of our book.
One way that companies raise cash to finance their investment activities is by selling
or “issuing” securities. The securities, sometimes called financial instruments or claims,
may be roughly classified as equity or debt, loosely called stocks or bonds. The difference
between equity and debt is a basic distinction in the modern theory of finance. All securi-
ties of a firm are claims that depend on or are contingent on the value of the firm.1 In Section
1.2 we show how debt and equity securities depend on the firm’s value, and we describe
them as different contingent claims.
In Section 1.3 we discuss different organizational forms and the pros and cons of the
decision to become a corporation.
In Section 1.4 we take a close look at the goals of the corporation and discuss why max-
imizing shareholder wealth is likely to be the primary goal of the corporation. Throughout
the rest of the book, we assume that the firm’s performance depends on the value it creates
for its shareholders. Shareholders are better off when the value of their shares is increased
by the firm’s decisions.
A company raises cash by issuing securities to the financial markets. The market value
of outstanding long-term corporate debt and equity securities traded in the U.S. financial
markets is in excess of $25 trillion. In Section 1.5 we describe some of the basic features of
the financial markets. Roughly speaking, there are two basic types of financial markets: the
money markets and the capital markets. The last section of the chapter provides an outline
of the rest of the book.
1We tend to use the words firm, company, and business interchangeably. However, there is a difference between
a firm and a corporation. We discuss this difference in Section 1.3.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
10
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 1
Introduction to Corporate Finance
3
1.1 WHAT IS CORPORATE FINANCE?
Suppose you decide to start a firm to make tennis balls. To do this, you hire managers to
buy raw materials, and you assemble a workforce that will produce and sell finished tennis
balls. In the language of finance, you make an investment in assets such as inventory, ma-
chinery, land, and labor. The amount of cash you invest in assets must be matched by an
equal amount of cash raised by financing. When you begin to sell tennis balls, your firm
will generate cash. This is the basis of value creation. The purpose of the firm is to create
value for you, the owner. The firm must generate more cash flow than it uses. The value is
reflected in the framework of the simple balance-sheet model of the firm.
The Balance-Sheet Model of the Firm
Suppose we take a financial snapshot of the firm and its activities at a single point in time.
Figure 1.1 shows a graphic conceptualization of the balance sheet, and it will help intro-
duce you to corporate finance.
The assets of the firm are on the left-hand side of the balance sheet. These assets can
be thought of as current and fixed. Fixed assets are those that will last a long time, such as
buildings. Some fixed assets are tangible, such as machinery and equipment. Other fixed
assets are intangible, such as patents, trademarks, and the quality of management. The other
category of assets, current assets, comprises those that have short lives, such as inventory.
The tennis balls that your firm has made but has not yet sold are part of its inventory. Unless
you have overproduced, they will leave the firm shortly.
Before a company can invest in an asset, it must obtain financing, which means that it
must raise the money to pay for the investment. The forms of financing are represented on
the right-hand side of the balance sheet. A firm will issue (sell) pieces of paper called debt
Long-term debt
Current assets
Fixed assets
1. Tangible fixed
assets
2. Intangible fixed
assets
Net
working
capital
Current liabilities
Shareholders’ equity
Total value of assets
Total value of the firm
to investors
I FIGURE 1.1 The Balance-Sheet Model of the Firm
Left side, total value of assets. Right side, total value of the firm to investors,
which determines how the value is distributed.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
11
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
(loan agreements) or equity shares (stock certificates). Just as assets are classified as long-
lived or short-lived, so too are liabilities. A short-term debt is called a current liability.
Short-term debt represents loans and other obligations that must be repaid within one year.
Long-term debt is debt that does not have to be repaid within one year. Shareholders’ eq-
uity represents the difference between the value of the assets and the debt of the firm. In this
sense it is a residual claim on the firm’s assets.
From the balance-sheet model of the firm it is easy to see why finance can be thought
of as the study of the following three questions:
1. In what long-lived assets should the firm invest? This question concerns the left-
hand side of the balance sheet. Of course, the type and proportions of assets the firm needs
tend to be set by the nature of the business. We use the terms capital budgeting and capi-
tal expenditures to describe the process of making and managing expenditures on long-
lived assets.
2. How can the firm raise cash for required capital expenditures? This question con-
cerns the right-hand side of the balance sheet. The answer to this involves the firm’s capi-
tal structure, which represents the proportions of the firm’s financing from current and
long-term debt and equity.
3. How should short-term operating cash flows be managed? This question concerns
the upper portion of the balance sheet. There is often a mismatch between the timing of cash
inflows and cash outflows during operating activities. Furthermore, the amount and timing
of operating cash flows are not known with certainty. The financial managers must attempt
to manage the gaps in cash flow. From a balance-sheet perspective, short-term management
of cash flow is associated with a firm’s net working capital. Net working capital is defined
as current assets minus current liabilities. From a financial perspective, the short-term cash
flow problem comes from the mismatching of cash inflows and outflows. It is the subject
of short-term finance.
Capital Structure
Financing arrangements determine how the value of the firm is sliced up. The persons or
institutions that buy debt from the firm are called creditors.2 The holders of equity shares
are called shareholders.
Sometimes it is useful to think of the firm as a pie. Initially, the size of the pie will depend
on how well the firm has made its investment decisions. After a firm has made its investment
decisions, it determines the value of its assets (e.g., its buildings, land, and inventories).
The firm can then determine its capital structure. The firm might initially have raised
the cash to invest in its assets by issuing more debt than equity; now it can consider chang-
ing that mix by issuing more equity and using the proceeds to buy back some of its debt.
Financing decisions like this can be made independently of the original investment deci-
sions. The decisions to issue debt and equity affect how the pie is sliced.
The pie we are thinking of is depicted in Figure 1.2. The size of the pie is the value of
the firm in the financial markets. We can write the value of the firm, V, as
V  B  S
where B is the value of the debt and S is the value of the equity. The pie diagrams con-
sider two ways of slicing the pie: 50 percent debt and 50 percent equity, and 25 percent
4
Part I
Overview
2We tend to use the words creditors, debtholders, and bondholders interchangeably. In later chapters we
examine the differences among the kinds of creditors. In algebraic notation, we will usually refer to the firm’s
debt with the letter B (for bondholders).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
12
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
debt and 75 percent equity. The way the pie is sliced could affect its value. If so, the goal
of the financial manager will be to choose the ratio of debt to equity that makes the value
of the pie—that is, the value of the firm, V—as large as it can be.
The Financial Manager
In large firms the finance activity is usually associated with a top officer of the firm, such
as the vice president and chief financial officer, and some lesser officers. Figure 1.3 depicts
a general organizational structure emphasizing the finance activity within the firm. Report-
ing to the chief financial officer are the treasurer and the controller. The treasurer is re-
sponsible for handling cash flows, managing capital-expenditures decisions, and making
financial plans. The controller handles the accounting function, which includes taxes, cost
and financial accounting, and information systems.
We think that the most important job of a financial manager is to create value from the
firm’s capital budgeting, financing, and liquidity activities. How do financial managers cre-
ate value?
1. The firm should try to buy assets that generate more cash than they cost.
2. The firm should sell bonds and stocks and other financial instruments that raise more
cash than they cost.
Thus the firm must create more cash flow than it uses. The cash flows paid to bond-
holders and stockholders of the firm should be higher than the cash flows put into the firm
by the bondholders and stockholders. To see how this is done, we can trace the cash flows
from the firm to the financial markets and back again.
The interplay of the firm’s finance with the financial markets is illustrated in Figure
1.4. The arrows in Figure 1.4 trace cash flow from the firm to the financial markets and back
again. Suppose we begin with the firm’s financing activities. To raise money the firm sells
debt and equity shares to investors in the financial markets. This results in cash flows from
the financial markets to the firm (A). This cash is invested in the investment activities of the
firm (B) by the firm’s management. The cash generated by the firm (C) is paid to share-
holders and bondholders (F). The shareholders receive cash in the form of dividends; the
bondholders who lent funds to the firm receive interest and, when the initial loan is repaid,
principal. Not all of the firm’s cash is paid out. Some is retained (E), and some is paid to
the government as taxes (D).
Over time, if the cash paid to shareholders and bondholders (F) is greater than the cash
raised in the financial markets (A), value will be created.
Identification of Cash Flows
Unfortunately, it is not all that easy to observe cash flows
directly. Much of the information we obtain is in the form of accounting statements, and
Chapter 1
Introduction to Corporate Finance
5
50% debt
50% equity
25% debt
75% equity
Capital structure 1
Capital structure 2
I FIGURE 1.2 Two Pie Models of the Firm

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
13
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
much of the work of financial analysis is to extract cash flow information from accounting
statements. The following example illustrates how this is done.
EXAMPLE
The Midland Company refines and trades gold. At the end of the year it sold 2,500
ounces of gold for $1 million. The company had acquired the gold for $900,000 at
the beginning of the year. The company paid cash for the gold when it was pur-
chased. Unfortunately, it has yet to collect from the customer to whom the gold
was sold. The following is a standard accounting of Midland’s financial circum-
stances at year-end:
6
Part I
Overview
Board of Directors
Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
President and Chief
Operations Officer (COO)
Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer (CFO)
Treasurer
Controller
Cash Manager
Credit Manager
Tax Manager
Cost Accounting
Manager
Data Processing
Manager
Financial
Accounting
Manager
Financial
Planning
Capital
Expenditures
I FIGURE 1.3 Hypothetical Organization Chart

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
14
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
By generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the sale is recorded even
though the customer has yet to pay. It is assumed that the customer will pay soon.
From the accounting perspective, Midland seems to be profitable. However, the
perspective of corporate finance is different. It focuses on cash flows:
The perspective of corporate finance is interested in whether cash flows are being
created by the gold-trading operations of Midland. Value creation depends on cash
flows. For Midland, value creation depends on whether and when it actually re-
ceives $1 million.
Timing of Cash Flows
The value of an investment made by the firm depends on the tim-
ing of cash flows. One of the most important assumptions of finance is that individuals pre-
fer to receive cash flows earlier rather than later. One dollar received today is worth more
than one dollar received next year. This time preference plays a role in stock and bond prices.
EXAMPLE
The Midland Company is attempting to choose between two proposals for new
products. Both proposals will provide additional cash flows over a four-year period
and will initially cost $10,000. The cash flows from the proposals are as follows:
THE MIDLAND COMPANY
Corporate Finance View
Income Statement
Year Ended December 31
Cash inflow
$
0
Cash outflow
 900,000
__________
$900,000
THE MIDLAND COMPANY
Accounting View
Income Statement
Year Ended December 31
Sales
$1,000,000
Costs
900,000
______
__________
Profit
$ 100,000
Chapter 1
Introduction to Corporate Finance
7
IN THEIR OWN WORDS
Skills Needed for the Chief Financial Officers of eFinance.com
Chief strategist: CFOs will need to use real-time fi-
nancial information to make crucial decisions fast.
Chief dealmaker: CFOs must be adept at venture capi-
tal, mergers and acquisitions, and strategic partnerships.
Chief risk officer: Limiting risk will be even more
important as markets become more global and hedg-
ing instruments become more complex.
Chief communicator: Gaining the confidence of Wall
Street and the media will be essential.
Source: Business Week, August 28, 2000, p. 120.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
15
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
At first it appears that new product A would be best. However, the cash flows from
proposal B come earlier than those of A. Without more information we cannot de-
cide which set of cash flows would create the most value to the bondholders and
shareholders. It depends on whether the value of getting cash from B up front out-
weighs the extra total cash from A. Bond and stock prices reflect this preference for
earlier cash, and we will see how to use them to decide between A and B.
Risk of Cash Flows
The firm must consider risk. The amount and timing of cash flows
are not usually known with certainty. Most investors have an aversion to risk.
EXAMPLE
The Midland Company is considering expanding operations overseas. It is evalu-
ating Europe and Japan as possible sites. Europe is considered to be relatively safe,
whereas operating in Japan is seen as very risky. In both cases the company would
close down operations after one year.
Year
New Product A
New Product B
1
$
0
$ 4,000
2
0
4,000
3
0
4,000
4
20,000
4,000
_______
_______
Total
$20,000
$16,000
8
Part I
Overview
Firm invests
in assets
(B)
Current assets
Fixed assets
Financial
markets
Short-term debt
Long-term debt
Equity shares
Government
(D)
Total value of the firm
to investors in
the financial markets
Dividends and
debt payments (F)
Firm issues securities (A)
Retained cash flows (E)
Cash flow
from firm (C)
Total value of assets
Taxes
I FIGURE 1.4 Cash Flows between the Firm and the Financial
Markets
(A) Firm issues securities to raise cash (the financing decision).
(B) Firm invests in assets (capital budgeting).
(C) Firm’s operations generate cash flow.
(D) Cash is paid to government as taxes.
(E) Retained cash flows are reinvested in firm.
(F) Cash is paid out to investors in the form of interest and dividends.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
16
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
After doing a complete financial analysis, Midland has come up with the fol-
lowing cash flows of the alternative plans for expansion under three equally likely
scenarios—pessimistic, most likely, and optimistic:
If we ignore the pessimistic scenario, perhaps Japan is the best alternative. When
we take the pessimistic scenario into account, the choice is unclear. Japan appears
to be riskier, but it also offers a higher expected level of cash flow. What is risk and
how can it be defined? We must try to answer this important question. Corporate
finance cannot avoid coping with risky alternatives, and much of our book is de-
voted to developing methods for evaluating risky opportunities.
• What are three basic questions of corporate finance?
• Describe capital structure.
• How is value created?
• List the three reasons why value creation is difficult.
1.2 CORPORATE SECURITIES AS CONTINGENT CLAIMS ON
TOTAL FIRM VALUE
What is the essential difference between debt and equity? The answer can be found by think-
ing about what happens to the payoffs to debt and equity when the value of the firm changes.
The basic feature of a debt is that it is a promise by the borrowing firm to repay a fixed
dollar amount by a certain date.
EXAMPLE
The Officer Corporation promises to pay $100 to the Brigham Insurance Company
at the end of one year. This is a debt of the Officer Corporation. Holders of the debt
will receive $100 if the value of the Officer Corporation’s assets is equal to or more
than $100 at the end of the year.
Formally, the debtholders have been promised an amount F at the end of the
year. If the value of the firm, X, is equal to or greater than F at year-end, debthold-
ers will get F. Of course, if the firm does not have enough to pay off the promised
amount, the firm will be “broke.” It may be forced to liquidate its assets for what-
ever they are worth, and the bondholders will receive X. Mathematically this
means that the debtholders have a claim to X or F, whichever is smaller. Figure 1.5
illustrates the general nature of the payoff structure to debtholders.
Suppose at year-end the Officer Corporation’s value is equal to $100. The firm has
promised to pay the Brigham Insurance Company $100,so the debtholders will get $100.
Now suppose the Officer Corporation’s value is $200 at year-end and the debthold-
ers are promised $100. How much will the debtholders receive? It should be clear that
they will receive the same amount as when the Officer Corporation was worth $100.
Suppose the firm’s value is $75 at year-end and debtholders are promised $100.
How much will the debtholders receive? In this case the debtholders will get $75.
Pessimistic
Most Likely
Optimistic
Europe
$75,000
$100,000
$125,000
Japan
0
150,000
200,000
Chapter 1
Introduction to Corporate Finance
9
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
17
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The stockholders’ claim on firm value at the end of the period is the amount that re-
mains after the debtholders are paid. Of course, stockholders get nothing if the firm’s value
is equal to or less than the amount promised to the debtholders.
EXAMPLE
The Officer Corporation will sell its assets for $200 at year-end. The firm has
promised to pay the Brigham Insurance Company $100 at that time. The stock-
holders will get the residual value of $100.
Algebraically, the stockholders’ claim is X  F if X  F and zero if X  F. This is de-
picted in Figure 1.5. The sum of the debtholders’ claim and the stockholders’ claim is al-
ways the value of the firm at the end of the period.
The debt and equity securities issued by a firm derive their value from the total value
of the firm. In the words of finance theory, debt and equity securities are contingent claims
on the total firm value.
When the value of the firm exceeds the amount promised to the debtholders, the share-
holders obtain the residual of the firm’s value over the amount promised the debtholders,
and the debtholders obtain the amount promised. When the value of the firm is less than the
amount promised the debtholders, the shareholders receive nothing and the debtholders get
the value of the firm.
• What is a contingent claim?
• Describe equity and debt as contingent claims.
1.3 THE CORPORATE FIRM
The firm is a way of organizing the economic activity of many individuals, and there are
many reasons why so much economic activity is carried out by firms and not by individuals.
The theory of firms, however, does not tell us much about why most large firms are corpo-
rations rather than any of the other legal forms that firms can assume.
10
Part I
Overview
F
F
F
F
F
Payoff to
debtholders
Value
of the
firm
(X )
Payoff to
equity shareholders
Payoffs to debtholders
and equity shareholders
Payoff to
equity
shareholders
Payoff to
debtholders
Value
of the
firm
(X )
Value
of the
firm
(X )
I FIGURE 1.5 Debt and Equity as Contingent Claims
F is the promised payoff to debtholders. X  F is the payoff to equity shareholders if X  F  0. Otherwise the
payoff is 0.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
18
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
A basic problem of the firm is how to raise cash. The corporate form of business, that
is, organizing the firm as a corporation, is the standard method for solving problems en-
countered in raising large amounts of cash. However, businesses can take other forms. In
this section we consider the three basic legal forms of organizing firms, and we see how
firms go about the task of raising large amounts of money under each form.
The Sole Proprietorship
A sole proprietorship is a business owned by one person. Suppose you decide to start a
business to produce mousetraps. Going into business is simple: You announce to all who
will listen, “Today I am going to build a better mousetrap.”
Most large cities require that you obtain a business license. Afterward you can begin
to hire as many people as you need and borrow whatever money you need. At year-end all
the profits and the losses will be yours.
Here are some factors that are important in considering a sole proprietorship:
1. The sole proprietorship is the cheapest business to form. No formal charter is required,
and few government regulations must be satisfied for most industries.
2. A sole proprietorship pays no corporate income taxes. All profits of the business are
taxed as individual income.
3. The sole proprietorship has unlimited liability for business debts and obligations. No
distinction is made between personal and business assets.
4. The life of the sole proprietorship is limited by the life of the sole proprietor.
5. Because the only money invested in the firm is the proprietor’s, the equity money that
can be raised by the sole proprietor is limited to the proprietor’s personal wealth.
The Partnership
Any two or more persons can get together and form a partnership. Partnerships fall into
two categories: (1) general partnerships and (2) limited partnerships.
In a general partnership all partners agree to provide some fraction of the work and
cash and to share the profits and losses. Each partner is liable for the debts of the partner-
ship. A partnership agreement specifies the nature of the arrangement. The partnership
agreement may be an oral agreement or a formal document setting forth the understanding.
Limited partnerships permit the liability of some of the partners to be limited to the
amount of cash each has contributed to the partnership. Limited partnerships usually re-
quire that (1) at least one partner be a general partner and (2) the limited partners do not
participate in managing the business. Here are some things that are important when con-
sidering a partnership:
1. Partnerships are usually inexpensive and easy to form. Written documents are required
in complicated arrangements, including general and limited partnerships. Business li-
censes and filing fees may be necessary.
2. General partners have unlimited liability for all debts. The liability of limited partners is
usually limited to the contribution each has made to the partnership. If one general part-
ner is unable to meet his or her commitment, the shortfall must be made up by the other
general partners.
3. The general partnership is terminated when a general partner dies or withdraws (but this
is not so for a limited partner). It is difficult for a partnership to transfer ownership with-
out dissolving. Usually, all general partners must agree. However, limited partners may
sell their interest in a business.
Chapter 1
Introduction to Corporate Finance
11

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
19
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
4. It is difficult for a partnership to raise large amounts of cash. Equity contributions are
usually limited to a partner’s ability and desire to contribute to the partnership. Many
companies, such as Apple Computer, start life as a proprietorship or partnership, but at
some point they choose to convert to corporate form.
5. Income from a partnership is taxed as personal income to the partners.
6. Management control resides with the general partners. Usually a majority vote is re-
quired on important matters, such as the amount of profit to be retained in the business.
It is very difficult for large business organizations to exist as sole proprietorships or
partnerships. The main advantage is the cost of getting started. Afterward, the disadvan-
tages, which may become severe, are (1) unlimited liability, (2) limited life of the enter-
prise, and (3) difficulty of transferring ownership. These three disadvantages lead to (4) the
difficulty of raising cash.
The Corporation
Of the many forms of business enterprises, the corporation is by far the most important. It
is a distinct legal entity. As such, a corporation can have a name and enjoy many of the le-
gal powers of natural persons. For example, corporations can acquire and exchange prop-
erty. Corporations can enter into contracts and may sue and be sued. For jurisdictional pur-
poses, the corporation is a citizen of its state of incorporation. (It cannot vote, however.)
Starting a corporation is more complicated than starting a proprietorship or partner-
ship. The incorporators must prepare articles of incorporation and a set of bylaws. The ar-
ticles of incorporation must include the following:
1. Name of the corporation.
2. Intended life of the corporation (it may be forever).
3. Business purpose.
4. Number of shares of stock that the corporation is authorized to issue, with a statement
of limitations and rights of different classes of shares.
5. Nature of the rights granted to shareholders.
6. Number of members of the initial board of directors.
The bylaws are the rules to be used by the corporation to regulate its own existence, and
they concern its shareholders, directors, and officers. Bylaws range from the briefest possi-
ble statement of rules for the corporation’s management to hundreds of pages of text.
In its simplest form, the corporation comprises three sets of distinct interests: the share-
holders (the owners), the directors, and the corporation officers (the top management).
Traditionally, the shareholders control the corporation’s direction, policies, and activities.
The shareholders elect a board of directors, who in turn selects top management. Members
of top management serve as corporate officers and manage the operation of the corporation
in the best interest of the shareholders. In closely held corporations with few shareholders
there may be a large overlap among the shareholders, the directors, and the top manage-
ment. However, in larger corporations the shareholders, directors, and the top management
are likely to be distinct groups.
The potential separation of ownership from management gives the corporation several
advantages over proprietorships and partnerships:
1. Because ownership in a corporation is represented by shares of stock, ownership can be read-
ily transferred to new owners. Because the corporation exists independently of those who
own its shares, there is no limit to the transferability of shares as there is in partnerships.
12
Part I
Overview

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
20
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
2. The corporation has unlimited life. Because the corporation is separate from its owners,
the death or withdrawal of an owner does not affect its legal existence. The corporation
can continue on after the original owners have withdrawn.
3. The shareholders’liability is limited to the amount invested in the ownership shares. For
example, if a shareholder purchased $1,000 in shares of a corporation, the potential loss
would be $1,000. In a partnership, a general partner with a $1,000 contribution could
lose the $1,000 plus any other indebtedness of the partnership.
Limited liability, ease of ownership transfer, and perpetual succession are the major ad-
vantages of the corporation form of business organization. These give the corporation an
enhanced ability to raise cash.
There is, however, one great disadvantage to incorporation. The federal government
taxes corporate income. This tax is in addition to the personal income tax that shareholders
pay on dividend income they receive. This is double taxation for shareholders when com-
pared to taxation on proprietorships and partnerships.
CASE STUDY:
Making the Decision to Become a Corporation:
The Case of PLM International, Inc.3
I
n 1972,several entrepreneurs agreed to start a company they called PLM (Professional Lease Man-
agement, Inc.).Their idea was to sponsor, syndicate, and manage public and private limited part-
nerships with the purpose of acquiring and leasing transportation equipment.They created an oper-
ating subsidiary called FSI (Financial Services, Inc.) to be the general partner of each of the
partnerships. PLM had limited success in its early years, but during the period 1981 to 1986 more
than 27 public partnerships were formed. Each partnership was set up to acquire and lease trans-
portation equipment, such as aircraft, tractors and trailers, cargo containers, and railcars, to trans-
portation companies.
Until the Tax Reform Act of 1986, PLM enjoyed considerable success with its partnerships. It
became one of the largest equipment-leasing firms in the United States.The partnerships appealed
to high-tax-bracket individuals because unlike corporations, partnerships are not taxed.The part-
nerships were set up to be self-liquidating (i.e., all excess cash flow was to be distributed to the
partners),and no reinvestment could take place.No ready market for the partnership units existed,
and each partnership invested in a narrow class of transportation equipment. PLM’s success de-
pended on creating tax-sheltered cash flow from accelerated depreciation and investment tax cred-
its. However, the 1986 Tax Reform Act had a devastating impact on tax-sheltered limited partner-
ships. The act substantially flattened personal tax rates, eliminated the investment tax credit,
shortened depreciation schedules, and established an alternative minimum tax rate.The act caused
PLM to think about different types of equipment-leasing organizational forms.What was needed was
an organization form that could take advantage of potential growth and diversification opportuni-
ties and that wasn’t based entirely upon tax sheltering.
In 1987 PLM, with the advice and assistance of the now-bankrupt Drexel Burnham Lambert in-
vestment banking firm, terminated its partnerships and converted consenting partnerships to a new
umbrella corporation called PLM International.After much legal maneuvering, PLM International pub-
licly announced that a majority of the partnerships had consented to the consolidation and incorpora-
tion.(A majority vote was needed for voluntary termination and some partnerships decided not to in-
corporate.) On February 2, 1988, PLM International’s common stock began trading on the American
Stock Exchange (AMEX) at about $8 per share. However, PLM International did not perform well, de-
spite its conversion to a corporation. In April 2000, its stock was trading at only $5 per share.
Chapter 1
Introduction to Corporate Finance
13
3The S–4 Registration  Statement, PLM International, Inc., filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Washington, D.C., August 1987, gives further details.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
21
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The decision to become a corporation is complicated,and there are several pros and cons.PLM
International cited several basic reasons to support the consolidation and incorporation of its trans-
portation-equipment–leasing activities.
• Enhanced access to equity and debt capital for future growth.
• The possibility of reinvestment for future profit opportunities.
• Better liquidity for investors through common stock listing on AMEX.
These are all good reasons for incorporating, and they provided potential benefits to the new
shareholders of PLM International that may have outweighed the disadvantages of double taxation that
came from incorporating. However, not all the PLM partnerships wanted to convert to the corpora-
tion. Sometimes it is not easy to determine whether a partnership or a corporation is the best orga-
nizational form. Corporate income is taxable at the personal and corporation levels. Because of this
double taxation,firms having the most to gain from incorporation share the following characteristics:
• Low taxable income.
• Low marginal corporate tax rates.
• Low marginal personal tax rates among potential shareholders.
In addition,firms with high rates of reinvestment relative to current income are good candidates
for the corporate form because corporations can more easily retain profits for reinvestment than
partnerships.Also, it is easier for corporations to sell shares of stock on public stock markets to fi-
nance possible investment opportunities.
14
Part I
Overview
A COMPARISON OF PARTNERSHIP AND CORPORATIONS
Corporation
Partnership
Liquidity and marketability
Shares can be exchanged without 
Units are subject to substantial 
termination of the corporation.
restrictions on transferability.There 
Common stock can be listed on 
is usually no established trading 
stock exchange.
market for partnership units.
Voting rights
Usually each share of common stock
Some voting rights by limited 
entitles the holder to one vote per 
partners. However, general partner 
share on matters requiring a vote 
has exclusive control and 
and on the election of the 
management of operations.
directors. Directors determine 
top management.
Taxation
Corporations have double taxation:
Partnerships are not taxable. Partners 
Corporate income is taxable, and 
pay taxes on distributed shares of 
dividends to shareholders are also 
partnership.
taxable.
Reinvestment and dividend payout
Corporations have broad latitude on 
Partnerships are generally prohibited 
dividend payout decisions.
from reinvesting partnership cash
flow.All net cash flow is distributed
to partners.
Liability
Shareholders are not personally liable 
Limited partners are not liable for 
for obligations of the corporation.
obligations of partnerships.
General partners may have unlimited
liability.
Continuity of existence
Corporations have perpetual life.
Partnerships have limited life.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
22
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
• Define a proprietorship, a partnership, and a corporation.
• What are the advantages of the corporate form of business organization?
1.4 GOALS OF THE CORPORATE FIRM
What is the primary goal of the corporation? The traditional answer is that managers in a
corporation make decisions for the stockholders because the stockholders own and control
the corporation. If so, the goal of the corporation is to add value for the stockholders. This
goal is a little vague and so we will try to come up with a precise formulation. It is also im-
possible to give a definitive answer to this important question because the corporation is an
artificial being, not a natural person. It exists in the “contemplation of the law.”4
It is necessary to precisely identify who controls the corporation. We shall consider the
set-of-contracts viewpoint. This viewpoint suggests the corporate firm will attempt to
maximize the shareholders’ wealth by taking actions that increase the current value per
share of existing stock of the firm.
Agency Costs and the Set-of-Contracts Perspective
The set-of-contracts theory of the firm states that the firm can be viewed as a set of con-
tracts.5 One of the contract claims is a residual claim (equity) on the firm’s assets and cash
flows. The equity contract can be defined as a principal-agent relationship. The members
of the management team are the agents, and the equity investors (shareholders) are the prin-
cipals. It is assumed that the managers and the shareholders, if left alone, will each attempt
to act in his or her own self-interest.
The shareholders, however, can discourage the managers from diverging from the share-
holders’ interests by devising appropriate incentives for managers and then monitoring their
behavior. Doing so, unfortunately, is complicated and costly. The cost of resolving the con-
flicts of interest between managers and shareholders are special types of costs called agency
costs. These costs are defined as the sum of (1) the monitoring costs of the shareholders and
(2) the costs of implementing control devices. It can be expected that contracts will be devised
that will provide the managers with appropriate incentives to maximize the shareholders’
wealth. Thus, the set-of-contracts theory suggests that managers in the corporate firm will
usually act in the best interest of shareholders. However, agency problems can never be per-
fectly solved and, as a consequence, shareholders may experience residual losses. Residual
losses are the lost wealth of the shareholders due to divergent behavior of the managers.
Managerial Goals
Managerial goals may be different from those of shareholders. What goals will managers
maximize if they are left to pursue their own rather than shareholders’ goals?
Williamson proposes the notion of expense preference.6 He argues that managers ob-
tain value from certain kinds of expenses. In particular, company cars, office furniture, of-
fice location, and funds for discretionary investment have value to managers beyond that
which comes from their productivity.
Chapter 1
Introduction to Corporate Finance
15
4These are the words of Chief Justice John Marshall from The Trustees of Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4,
Wheaton 636 (1819).
5M. C. Jensen and W. Meckling, “Theory of the Firm: Managerial Behavior, Agency Costs and Ownership
Structure,” Journal of Financial Economics 3 (1976).
6O. Williamson, “Managerial Discretion and Business Behavior,” American Economic Review 53 (1963).
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
23
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Donaldson conducted a series of interviews with the chief executives of several large
companies.7 He concluded that managers are influenced by two basic motivations:
1. Survival. Organizational survival means that management will always try to command
sufficient resources to avoid the firm’s going out of business.
2. Independence and self-sufficiency. This is the freedom to make decisions without en-
countering external parties or depending on outside financial markets. The Donaldson
interviews suggested that managers do not like to issue new shares of stock. Instead, they
like to be able to rely on internally generated cash flow.
These motivations lead to what Donaldson concludes is the basic financial objective of
managers: the maximization of corporate wealth. Corporate wealth is that wealth over
which management has effective control; it is closely associated with corporate growth and
corporate size. Corporate wealth is not necessarily shareholder wealth. Corporate wealth
tends to lead to increased growth by providing funds for growth and limiting the extent to
which new equity is raised. Increased growth and size are not necessarily the same thing as
increased shareholder wealth.
Separation of Ownership and Control
Some people argue that shareholders do not completely control the corporation. They ar-
gue that shareholder ownership is too diffuse and fragmented for effective control of man-
agement.8 A striking feature of the modern large corporation is the diffusion of ownership
among thousands of investors. For example, Table 1.1 shows that 3,700,000 persons and in-
stitutions own shares of AT&T stock.
One of the most important advantages of the corporate form of business organization is
that it allows ownership of shares to be transferred. The resulting diffuse ownership, however,
16
Part I
Overview
7G. Donaldson, Managing Corporate Wealth: The Operations of a Comprehensive Financial Goals System
(New York: Praeger Publishers, 1984).
8Recent work by Gerald T. Garvey and Peter L. Swan, “The Economics of Corporate Governance: Beyond the
Marshallian Firm,” Journal of Corporate Finance 1 (1994), surveys literature on the stated assumption of
shareholder maximization.
I TABLE 1.1 Some of the World’s Largest Industrial Corporations, 2000
Market Value*
Shares Outstanding
Number of
Company
(in $ billions)
(in millions)
Shareholders
Microsoft
$525.7
5209
92,130
General Electric
434.0
3714
534,000
Intel
400.1
3555
203,000
IBM
188.8
1875
616,000
AT&T
173.2
3194
3,700,000
Merck
138.7
2968
269,600
Pfizer
134.6
4138
105,000
Toyota
119.2
1875
100,000
Coca Cola
112.5
3464
366,000
Sources: Value Line, Business Week, and Standard & Poor’s Security Owners Stock Guide.
*Market price multiplied by shares outstanding.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
24
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
brings with it the separation of ownership and control of the large corporation. The possible
separation of ownership and control raises an important question: Who controls the firm?
Do Shareholders Control Managerial Behavior?
The claim that managers can ignore the interests of shareholders is deduced from the fact
that ownership in large corporations is widely dispersed. As a consequence, it is often
claimed that individual shareholders cannot control management. There is some merit in
this argument, but it is too simplistic.
When a conflict of interest exists between management and shareholders, who wins?
Does management or the shareholders control the firm? There is no doubt that ownership
in large corporations is diffuse when compared to the closely held corporation. However,
several control devices used by shareholders bond management to the self-interest of
shareholders:
1. Shareholders determine the membership of the board of directors by voting. Thus, share-
holders control the directors, who in turn select the management team.
2. Contracts with management and arrangements for compensation, such as stock option plans,
can be made so that management has an incentive to pursue the goal of the shareholders. An-
other device is called performance shares. These are shares of stock given to managers on
the basis of performance as measured by earnings per share and similar criteria.
3. If the price of a firm’s stock drops too low because of poor management, the firm may
be acquired by another group of shareholders, by another firm, or by an individual. This
is called a takeover. In a takeover, the top management of the acquired firm may find
themselves out of a job. This puts pressure on the management to make decisions in the
stockholders’ interests. Fear of a takeover gives managers an incentive to take actions
that will maximize stock prices.
4. Competition in the managerial labor market may force managers to perform in the best
interest of stockholders. Otherwise they will be replaced. Firms willing to pay the most
will lure good managers. These are likely to be firms that compensate managers based
on the value they create.
The available evidence and theory are consistent with the ideas of shareholder control
and shareholder value maximization. However, there can be no doubt that at times corpo-
rations pursue managerial goals at the expense of shareholders. There is also evidence that
the diverse claims of customers, vendors, and employees must frequently be considered in
the goals of the corporation.
• What are the two types of agency costs?
• How are managers bonded to shareholders?
• Can you recall some managerial goals?
• What is the set-of-contracts perspective?
1.5 FINANCIAL MARKETS
As indicated in Section 1.1, firms offer two basic types of securities to investors. Debt se-
curities are contractual obligations to repay corporate borrowing. Equity securities are
shares of common stock and preferred stock that represent noncontractual claims to the
Chapter 1
Introduction to Corporate Finance
17
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
25
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
residual cash flow of the firm. Issues of debt and stock that are publicly sold by the firm are
then traded on the financial markets.
The financial markets are composed of the money markets and the capital markets.
Money markets are the markets for debt securities that will pay off in the short term (usu-
ally less than one year). Capital markets are the markets for long-term debt (with a matu-
rity at over one year) and for equity shares.
The term money market applies to a group of loosely connected markets. They are
dealer markets. Dealers are firms that make continuous quotations of prices for which they
stand ready to buy and sell money-market instruments for their own inventory and at their
own risk. Thus, the dealer is a principal in most transactions. This is different from a stock-
broker acting as an agent for a customer in buying or selling common stock on most stock
exchanges; an agent does not actually acquire the securities.
At the core of the money markets are the money-market banks (these are large banks in
New York), more than 30 government securities dealers (some of which are the large banks),
a dozen or so commercial-paper dealers, and a large number of money brokers. Money bro-
kers specialize in finding short-term money for borrowers and placing money for lenders. The
financial markets can be classified further as the primary market and the secondary markets.
The Primary Market: New Issues
The primary market is used when governments and corporations initially sell securities.
Corporations engage in two types of primary-market sales of debt and equity: public offer-
ings and private placements.
Most publicly offered corporate debt and equity come to the market underwritten by a syn-
dicate of investment banking firms. The underwriting syndicate buys the new securities from the
firm for the syndicate’s own account and resells them at a higher price. Publicly issued debt and
equity must be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Registration requires
the corporation to disclose all of the material information in a registration statement.
The legal, accounting, and other costs of preparing the registration statement are not neg-
ligible. In part to avoid these costs, privately placed debt and equity are sold on the basis of
private negotiations to large financial institutions, such as insurance companies and mutual
funds. Private placements are not registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Secondary Markets
After debt and equity securities are originally sold, they are traded in the secondary markets.
There are two kinds of secondary markets: the auction markets and the dealer markets.
The equity securities of most large U.S. firms trade in organized auction markets, such
as the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange, and regional exchanges,
such as the Midwest Stock Exchange. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is the most
important auction exchange. It usually accounts for more than 85 percent of all shares
traded in U.S. auction exchanges. Bond trading on auction exchanges is inconsequential.
Most debt securities are traded in dealer markets. The many bond dealers communi-
cate with one another by telecommunications equipment—wires, computers, and tele-
phones. Investors get in touch with dealers when they want to buy or sell, and can negoti-
ate a deal. Some stocks are traded in the dealer markets. When they are, it is referred to as
the over-the-counter (OTC) market.
In February 1971, the National Association of Securities Dealers made available to
dealers and brokers in the OTC market an automated quotation system called the National
Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation (NASDAQ) system. The market
value of shares of OTC stocks in the NASDAQ system at the end of 1998 was about 25 per-
cent of the market value of the shares on the NYSE.
18
Part I
Overview

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
26
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Exchange Trading of Listed Stocks
Auction markets are different from dealer markets in two ways: First, trading in a given auc-
tion exchange takes place at a single site on the floor of the exchange. Second, transaction
prices of shares traded on auction exchanges are communicated almost immediately to the
public by computer and other devices.
The NYSE is one of the preeminent securities exchanges in the world. All transactions
in stocks listed on the NYSE occur at a particular place on the floor of the exchange called
a post. At the heart of the market is the specialist. Specialists are members of the NYSE
who make a market in designated stocks. Specialists have an obligation to offer to buy and
sell shares of their assigned NYSE stocks. It is believed that this makes the market liquid
because the specialist assumes the role of a buyer for investors if they wish to sell and a
seller if they wish to buy.
Listing
Firms that want their equity shares to be traded on the NYSE must apply for listing. To be
listed initially on the NYSE a company is expected to satisfy certain minimum require-
ments. Some of these for U.S. companies are as follows:
1. Demonstrated earning power of either $2.5 million before taxes for the most recent year
and $2 million before taxes for each of the preceding two years, or an aggregate for the
last three years of $6.5 million together with a minimum in the most recent year of $4.5
million (all years must be profitable).
2. Net tangible assets equal to at least $40 million.
3. A market value for publicly held shares of $40 million.
4. A total of a least 1.1 million publicly held shares.
5. A total of at least 2,000 holders of 100 shares of stock or more.
The listing requirements for non–U.S. companies are somewhat more stringent. Table 1.2
gives the market value of NYSE-listed stocks and bonds.
Chapter 1
Introduction to Corporate Finance
19
I TABLE 1.2 Market Value of NYSE-Listed Securities
End-of-
Number of
Market Value
Year
Companies
($ millions)
NYSE-listed stocks*
1999
3025
12,296,057
1998
3114
10,864,472
1997
3047
9,413,109
1996
2907
7,300,351
NYSE-listed bonds†
1999
416
2,401,605
1998
474
2,554,122
1997
533
2,625,357
1996
563
2,862,382
*Includes preferred stock and common stock.
†Includes government issues.
Source: Data from the New York Stock Exchange Fact Book 1999, published by the New York Stock Exchange.
In the case of bonds, in some instances we report the face value.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
27
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
20
Part I
Overview
• Distinguish between money markets and capital markets.
• What is listing?
• What is the difference between a primary market and a secondary market?
1.6 OUTLINE OF THE TEXT
Now that we’ve taken the quick tour through all of corporate finance, we can take a closer
look at this book. The book is divided into eight parts. The long-term investment decision
is covered first. Financing decisions and working capital are covered next. Finally a series
of special topics are covered. Here are the eight parts:
Part I
Overview
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
Part III
Risk
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
Part V
Long-Term Financing
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
Part VIII Special Topics
Part II describes how investment opportunities are valued in financial markets. This
part contains basic theory. Because finance is a subject that builds understanding from the
ground up, the material is very important. The most important concept in Part II is net
present value. We develop the net present value rule into a tool for valuing investment al-
ternatives. We discuss general formulas and apply them to a variety of different financial
instruments.
Part III introduces basic measures of risk. The capital-asset pricing model (CAPM) and
the arbitrage pricing theory (APT) are used to devise methods for incorporating risk in val-
uation. As part of this discussion, we describe the famous beta coefficient. Finally, we use
the above pricing models to handle capital budgeting under risk.
Part IV examines two interrelated topics: capital structure and dividend policy. Capital
structure is the extent to which the firm relies on debt. It cannot be separated from the
amount of cash dividends the firm decides to pay out to its equity shareholders.
Part V concerns long-term financing. We describe the securities that corporations issue
to raise cash, as well as the mechanics of offering securities for a public sale. Here we dis-
cuss call provisions, warrants, convertibles, and leasing.
Part VI discusses special contractual arrangements called Options.
Part VII is devoted to financial planning and short-term finance. The first chapter de-
scribes financial planning. Next we focus on managing the firm’s current assets and current
liabilities. We describe aspects of the firm’s short-term financial management. Separate
chapters on cash management and on credit management are included.
Part VIII covers two important special topics: mergers and international corporate
finance.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
1. Introduction to Corporate 
Finance
28
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 1
Introduction to Corporate Finance
21
KEY TERMS
Capital budgeting
4
Money markets
18
Capital markets
18
Net working capital
4
Capital structure
4
Partnership
11
Contingent claims
10
Set-of-contracts viewpoint
15
Corporation
12
Sole proprietorship
11
SUGGESTED READINGS
Evidence is provided on the tax factor in choosing to incorporate in:
Mackie-Mason, J. K., and R. H. Gordon. “How Much Do Taxes Discourage Incorporation?”
Journal of Finance (June 1997).
Do American managers pay too little attention to shareholders? This is the question posed in:
M. Miller. “Is American Corporate Governance Fatally Flawed?” Journal of Applied Corporate
Finance (Winter 1994).
What are the patterns of corporate ownership around the world? This is the question posed by:
La Porta, R., F. Lopez-De-Silanes, and A. Shleiter. “Corporate Ownership Around the World.”
Journal of Finance 54 (1999).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
29
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Accounting Statements
and Cash Flow
CHAPTER 2
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
C
hapter 2 describes the basic accounting statements used for reporting corporate ac-
tivity. The focus of the chapter is the practical details of cash flow. It will become
obvious to you in the next several chapters that knowing how to determine cash flow
helps the financial manager make better decisions. Students who have had accounting
courses will not find the material new and can think of it as a review with an emphasis on
finance. We will discuss cash flow further in later chapters.
2.1 THE BALANCE SHEET
The balance sheet is an accountant’s snapshot of the firm’s accounting value on a particu-
lar date, as though the firm stood momentarily still. The balance sheet has two sides: on the
left are the assets and on the right are the liabilities and stockholders’ equity. The balance
sheet states what the firm owns and how it is financed. The accounting definition that un-
derlies the balance sheet and describes the balance is 
Assets  Liabilities  Stockholders’ equity
We have put a three-line equality in the balance equation to indicate that it must always
hold, by definition. In fact, the stockholders’ equity is defined to be the difference between
the assets and the liabilities of the firm. In principle, equity is what the stockholders would
have remaining after the firm discharged its obligations.
Table 2.1 gives the 20X2 and 20X1 balance sheet for the fictitious U.S. Composite
Corporation. The assets in the balance sheet are listed in order by the length of time it nor-
mally would take an ongoing firm to convert them to cash. The asset side depends on the
nature of the business and how management chooses to conduct it. Management must make
decisions about cash versus marketable securities, credit versus cash sales, whether to make
or buy commodities, whether to lease or purchase items, the types of business in which to
engage, and so on. The liabilities and the stockholders’ equity are listed in the order in
which they must be paid.
The liabilities and stockholders’ equity side reflects the types and proportions of fi-
nancing, which depend on management’s choice of capital structure, as between debt and
equity and between current debt and long-term debt.
When analyzing a balance sheet, the financial manager should be aware of three con-
cerns: accounting liquidity, debt versus equity, and value versus cost.
Accounting Liquidity
Accounting liquidity refers to the ease and quickness with which assets can be converted
to cash. Current assets are the most liquid and include cash and those assets that will be
turned into cash within a year from the date of the balance sheet. Accounts receivable are

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
30
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 2
Accounting Statements and Cash Flow
23
amounts not yet collected from customers for goods or services sold to them (after ad-
justment for potential bad debts). Inventory is composed of raw materials to be used in pro-
duction, work in process, and finished goods. Fixed assets are the least liquid kind of as-
sets. Tangible fixed assets include property, plant, and equipment. These assets do not
convert to cash from normal business activity, and they are not usually used to pay ex-
penses, such as payroll.
Some fixed assets are not tangible. Intangible assets have no physical existence but can
be very valuable. Examples of intangible assets are the value of a trademark or the value of
a patent. The more liquid a firm’s assets, the less likely the firm is to experience problems
meeting short-term obligations. Thus, the probability that a firm will avoid financial dis-
tress can be linked to the firm’s liquidity. Unfortunately, liquid assets frequently have lower
rates of return than fixed assets; for example, cash generates no investment income. To the
extent a firm invests in liquid assets, it sacrifices an opportunity to invest in more profitable
investment vehicles.
I TABLE 2.1 The Balance Sheet of the U.S. Composite Corporation
U.S. COMPOSITE CORPORATION
Balance Sheet
20X2 and 20X1
(in $ millions)
Liabilities (Debt)
Assets
20X2
20X1
and Stockholders’ Equity
20X2
20X1
Current assets:
Current liabilities:
Cash and equivalents
$ 140
$ 107
Accounts payable
$ 213
$ 197
Accounts receivable
294
270
Notes payable
50
53
Inventories
269
280
Accrued expenses
223
205
______
______
Other
58
50
Total current liabilities
$ 486
$ 455
______
______
Total current assets
$ 761
$ 707
Long-term liabilities:
Fixed assets:
Deferred taxes
$ 117
$ 104
Property, plant, and equipment
$1,423
$1,274
Long-term debt1
471
458
______
______
Less accumulated depreciation
(550)
(460)
Total long-term liabilities
$ 588
$ 562
______
______
Net property, plant, and equipment
873
814
Stockholders’ equity:
Intangible assets and others
245
221
Preferred stock
$
39
$
39
______
______
Total fixed assets
$1,118
$1,035
Common stock ($1 par value)
55
32
______
______
Capital surplus
347
327
Accumulated retained earnings
390
347
Less treasury stock2
(26)
(20)
______
______
Total equity
$ 805
$ 725
______
______
Total assets
$1,879
$1,742
Total liabilities and stockholders’equity3
$1,879
$1,742
______
______
______
______
______
______
______
______
Notes:
1Long-term debt rose by $471 million–$458 million  $13 million. This is the difference between $86 million new debt and $73 million in
retirement of old debt.
2Treasury stock rose by $6 million. This reflects the repurchase of $6 million of U.S. Composite’s company stock.
3U.S. Composite reports $43 million in new equity. The company issued 23 million shares at a price of $1.87. The par value of common stock
increased by $23 million, and capital surplus increased by $20 million.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
31
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Debt versus Equity
Liabilities are obligations of the firm that require a payout of cash within a stipulated time
period. Many liabilities involve contractual obligations to repay a stated amount and inter-
est over a period. Thus, liabilities are debts and are frequently associated with nominally
fixed cash burdens, called debt service, that put the firm in default of a contract if they are
not paid. Stockholders’ equity is a claim against the firm’s assets that is residual and not
fixed. In general terms, when the firm borrows, it gives the bondholders first claim on the
firm’s cash flow.1 Bondholders can sue the firm if the firm defaults on its bond contracts.
This may lead the firm to declare itself bankrupt. Stockholders’ equity is the residual dif-
ference between assets and liabilities:
Assets  Liabilities  Stockholders’ equity
This is the stockholders’ share in the firm stated in accounting terms. The accounting value
of stockholders’ equity increases when retained earnings are added. This occurs when the
firm retains part of its earnings instead of paying them out as dividends.
Value versus Cost
The accounting value of a firm’s assets is frequently referred to as the carrying value or the
book value of the assets.2 Under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), au-
dited financial statements of firms in the United States carry the assets at cost.3 Thus the
terms carrying value and book value are unfortunate. They specifically say “value,” when
in fact the accounting numbers are based on cost. This misleads many readers of financial
statements to think that the firm’s assets are recorded at true market values. Market value is
the price at which willing buyers and sellers trade the assets. It would be only a coincidence
if accounting value and market value were the same. In fact, management’s job is to create
a value for the firm that is higher than its cost.
Many people use the balance sheet although the information each may wish to ex-
tract is not the same. A banker may look at a balance sheet for evidence of accounting
liquidity and working capital. A supplier may also note the size of accounts payable and
therefore the general promptness of payments. Many users of financial statements, in-
cluding managers and investors, want to know the value of the firm, not its cost. This is
not found on the balance sheet. In fact, many of the true resources of the firm do not ap-
pear on the balance sheet: good management, proprietary assets, favorable economic con-
ditions, and so on.
• What is the balance-sheet equation?
• What three things should be kept in mind when looking at a balance sheet?
24
Part I
Overview
1Bondholders are investors in the firm’s debt. They are creditors of the firm. In this discussion, the term
bondholder means the same thing as creditor.
2Confusion often arises because many financial accounting terms have the same meaning. This presents a
problem with jargon for the reader of financial statements. For example, the following terms usually refer to the
same thing: assets minus liabilities, net worth, stockholders’ equity, owner’s equity, and equity capitalization.
3Formally, GAAP requires assets to be carried at the lower of cost or market value. In most instances cost is
lower than market value.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
32
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
2.2 THE INCOME STATEMENT
The income statement measures performance over a specific period of time, say, a year.
The accounting definition of income is
Revenue  Expenses  Income
If the balance sheet is like a snapshot, the income statement is like a video recording of what
the people did between two snapshots. Table 2.2 gives the income statement for the U.S.
Composite Corporation for 20X2.
The income statement usually includes several sections. The operations section reports
the firm’s revenues and expenses from principal operations. One number of particular im-
portance is earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), which summarizes earnings before
taxes and financing costs. Among other things, the nonoperating section of the income
statement includes all financing costs, such as interest expense. Usually a second section
Chapter 2
Accounting Statements and Cash Flow
25
I TABLE 2.2 The Income Statement of the U.S. Composite Corporation
U.S. COMPOSITE CORPORATION
Income Statement
20X2
(in $ millions)
Total operating revenues
$2,262
Cost of goods sold
(1,655)
Selling, general, and administrative expenses
(327)
Depreciation
(90)
______
Operating income
$ 190
Other income
29
______
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT)
$ 219
Interest expense
(49)
______
Pretax income
$ 170
Taxes
(84)
Current:
$
71
Deferred: $
13
______
Net income
$
86
______
______
Retained earnings:
$
43
Dividends:
$
43
Notes:
1. There are 29 million shares outstanding. Earnings per share and dividends per share can be calculated as follows:
Earnings per share  Net income
Total shares outstanding
 $86
29
 $2.97 per share
Dividends per share  Dividends
Total shares outstanding
 $43
29
 $1.48 per share

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
33
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
reports as a separate item the amount of taxes levied on income. The last item on the in-
come statement is the bottom line, or net income. Net income is frequently expressed per
share of common stock, that is, earnings per share.
When analyzing an income statement, the financial manager should keep in mind
GAAP, noncash items, time, and costs.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
Revenue is recognized on an income statement when the earnings process is virtually com-
pleted and an exchange of goods or services has occurred. Therefore, the unrealized appre-
ciation in owning property will not be recognized as income. This provides a device for
smoothing income by selling appreciated property at convenient times. For example, if the
firm owns a tree farm that has doubled in value, then, in a year when its earnings from other
businesses are down, it can raise overall earnings by selling some trees. The matching prin-
ciple of GAAP dictates that revenues be matched with expenses. Thus, income is reported
when it is earned, or accrued, even though no cash flow has necessarily occurred (for ex-
ample, when goods are sold for credit, sales and profits are reported).
Noncash Items
The economic value of assets is intimately connected to their future incremental cash flows.
However, cash flow does not appear on an income statement. There are several noncash
items that are expenses against revenues, but that do not affect cash flow. The most impor-
tant of these is depreciation. Depreciation reflects the accountant’s estimate of the cost of
equipment used up in the production process. For example, suppose an asset with a five-
year life and no resale value is purchased for $1,000. According to accountants, the $1,000
cost must be expensed over the useful life of the asset. If straight-line depreciation is used,
there will be five equal installments and $200 of depreciation expense will be incurred each
year. From a finance perspective, the cost of the asset is the actual negative cash flow in-
curred when the asset is acquired (that is, $1,000, not the accountant’s smoothed $200-per-
year depreciation expense).
Another noncash expense is deferred taxes. Deferred taxes result from differences be-
tween accounting income and true taxable income.4 Notice that the accounting tax shown
on the income statement for the U.S. Composite Corporation is $84 million. It can be bro-
ken down as current taxes and deferred taxes. The current tax portion is actually sent to the
tax authorities (for example, the Internal Revenue Service). The deferred tax portion is not.
However, the theory is that if taxable income is less than accounting income in the current
year, it will be more than accounting income later on. Consequently, the taxes that are not
paid today will have to be paid in the future, and they represent a liability of the firm. This
shows up on the balance sheet as deferred tax liability. From the cash flow perspective,
though, deferred tax is not a cash outflow.
Time and Costs
It is often useful to think of all of future time as having two distinct parts, the short run and
the long run. The short run is that period of time in which certain equipment, resources, and
commitments of the firm are fixed; but the time is long enough for the firm to vary its out-
put by using more labor and raw materials. The short run is not a precise period of time that
will be the same for all industries. However, all firms making decisions in the short run have
26
Part I
Overview
4One situation in which taxable income may be lower than accounting income is when the firm uses accelerated
depreciation expense procedures for the IRS but uses straight-line procedures allowed by GAAP for reporting
purposes.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
34
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
some fixed costs, that is, costs that will not change because of fixed commitments. In real
business activity, examples of fixed costs are bond interest, overhead, and property taxes.
Costs that are not fixed are variable. Variable costs change as the output of the firm changes;
some examples are raw materials and wages for laborers on the production line.
In the long run, all costs are variable.5 Financial accountants do not distinguish be-
tween variable costs and fixed costs. Instead, accounting costs usually fit into a classifica-
tion that distinguishes product costs from period costs. Product costs are the total produc-
tion costs incurred during a period—raw materials, direct labor, and manufacturing
overhead—and are reported on the income statement as cost of goods sold. Both variable
and fixed costs are included in product costs. Period costs are costs that are allocated to a
time period; they are called selling, general, and administrative expenses. One period cost
would be the company president’s salary.
• What is the income statement equation?
• What are three things to keep in mind when looking at an income statement?
• What are noncash expenses?
2.3 NET WORKING CAPITAL
Net working capital is current assets minus current liabilities. Net working capital is posi-
tive when current assets are greater than current liabilities. This means the cash that will be-
come available over the next 12 months will be greater than the cash that must be paid out.
The net working capital of the U.S. Composite Corporation is $275 million in 20X2 and
$252 million in 20X1:
Current assets
Current liabilities
Net working capital
($ millions)

($ millions)

($ millions)
20X2
$761

$486

$275
20X1
707

455

252
In addition to investing in fixed assets (i.e., capital spending), a firm can invest in net work-
ing capital. This is called the change in net working capital. The change in net working
capital in 20X2 is the difference between the net working capital in 20X2 and 20X1; that
is, $275 million  $252 million  $23 million. The change in net working capital is usu-
ally positive in a growing firm.
• What is net working capital?
• What is the change in net working capital?
2.4 FINANCIAL CASH FLOW
Perhaps the most important item that can be extracted from financial statements is the ac-
tual cash flow of the firm. There is an official accounting statement called the statement of
cash flows. This statement helps to explain the change in accounting cash and equivalents,
Chapter 2
Accounting Statements and Cash Flow
27
5When one famous economist was asked about the difference between the long run and the short run, he said,
“In the long run we are all dead.”
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
35
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
which for U.S. Composite is $33 million in 20X2. (See Appendix 2B.) Notice in Table 2.1
that Cash and equivalents increases from $107 million in 20X1 to $140 million in 20X2.
However, we will look at cash flow from a different perspective, the perspective of finance.
In finance the value of the firm is its ability to generate financial cash flow. (We will talk
more about financial cash flow in Chapter 7.)
The first point we should mention is that cash flow is not the same as net working cap-
ital. For example, increasing inventory requires using cash. Because both inventories and
cash are current assets, this does not affect net working capital. In this case, an increase in
a particular net working capital account, such as inventory, is associated with decreasing
cash flow.
Just as we established that the value of a firm’s assets is always equal to the value of
the liabilities and the value of the equity, the cash flows received from the firm’s assets (that
is, its operating activities), CF(A), must equal the cash flows to the firm’s creditors, CF(B),
and equity investors, CF(S):
CF(A)  CF(B)  CF(S)
The first step in determining cash flows of the firm is to figure out the cash flow from op-
erations. As can be seen in Table 2.3, operating cash flow is the cash flow generated by busi-
ness activities, including sales of goods and services. Operating cash flow reflects tax pay-
ments, but not financing, capital spending, or changes in net working capital.
Another important component of cash flow involves changes in fixed assets. For ex-
ample, when U.S. Composite sold its power systems subsidiary in 20X2 it generated $25
in cash flow. The net change in fixed assets equals sales of fixed assets minus the acquisi-
tion of fixed assets. The result is the cash flow used for capital spending:
( $149  $24  increase
in property, plant, and
equipment  increase in
intangible assets)
Cash flows are also used for making investments in net working capital. In the U.S. Com-
posite Corporation in 20X2, additions to net working capital are
Additions to net working capital
$23
Total cash flows generated by the firm’s assets are the sum of
Operating cash flow
$238
Capital spending
(173)
Additions to net working capital
(23)
____
Total cash flow of the firm
$42
____
____
Acquisition of fixed assets
$198
Sales of fixed assets
(25)
____
Capital spending
$173
____
____
In $ Millions
Earnings before interest and taxes
$219
Depreciation
90
____
Current taxes
(71)
Operating cash flow
$238
28
Part I
Overview

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
36
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The total outgoing cash flow of the firm can be separated into cash flow paid to credi-
tors and cash flow paid to stockholders. The cash flow paid to creditors represents a re-
grouping of the data in Table 2.3 and an explicit recording of interest expense. Creditors are
paid an amount generally referred to as debt service. Debt service is interest payments plus
repayments of principal (that is, retirement of debt).
An important source of cash flow is from selling new debt. U.S. Composite’s long-term
debt increased by $13 million (the difference between $86 million in new debt and $73 mil-
lion in retirement of old debt.6) Thus, an increase in long-term debt is the net effect of new
borrowing and repayment of maturing obligations plus interest expense.
Cash Flow Paid to Creditors
(in $ millions)
Interest
$49
Retirement of debt
73
____
Debt service
122
Proceeds from long-term debt sales
(86)
____
Total
$36
____
____
Chapter 2
Accounting Statements and Cash Flow
29
I TABLE 2.3 Financial Cash Flow of the U.S. Composite Corporation
U.S. COMPOSITE CORPORATION
Financial Cash Flow
20X2
(in $ millions)
Cash Flow of the Firm
Operating cash flow
$238
(Earnings before interest and taxes
plus depreciation minus taxes)
Capital spending
(173)
(Acquisitions of fixed assets
minus sales of fixed assets)
Additions to net working capital
(23)
____
Total
$ 42
____
____
Cash Flow to Investors in the Firm
Debt
$ 36
(Interest plus retirement of debt
minus long-term debt financing)
Equity
6
(Dividends plus repurchase of
equity minus new equity financing)
____
Total
$ 42
____
____
6New debt and the retirement of old debt are usually found in the “notes” to the balance sheet.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
37
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Cash flow of the firm also is paid to the stockholders. It is the net effect of paying div-
idends plus repurchasing outstanding shares of stock and issuing new shares of stock.
Some important observations can be drawn from our discussion of cash flow:
1. Several types of cash flow are relevant to understanding the financial situation of the
firm. Operating cash flow, defined as earnings before interest and depreciation minus taxes,
measures the cash generated from operations not counting capital spending or working cap-
ital requirements. It should usually be positive; a firm is in trouble if operating cash flow is
negative for a long time because the firm is not generating enough cash to pay operating
costs. Total cash flow of the firm includes adjustments for capital spending and additions
to net working capital. It will frequently be negative. When a firm is growing at a rapid rate,
the spending on inventory and fixed assets can be higher than cash flow from sales.7
2. Net income is not cash flow. The net income of the U.S. Composite Corporation in
20X2 was $86 million, whereas cash flow was $42 million. The two numbers are not usu-
ally the same. In determining the economic and financial condition of a firm, cash flow is
more revealing.
• How is cash flow different from changes in net working capital?
• What is the difference between operating cash flow and total cash flow of the firm?
2.5 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Besides introducing you to corporate accounting, the purpose of this chapter has been to teach
you how to determine cash flow from the accounting statements of a typical company.
1. Cash flow is generated by the firm and paid to creditors and shareholders. It can be
classified as:
a. Cash flow from operations.
b. Cash flow from changes in fixed assets.
c. Cash flow from changes in working capital.
Cash Flow to Stockholders
(in $ millions)
Dividends
$43
Repurchase of stock
6
____
Cash to stockholders
49
Proceeds from new stock issue 
(43)
____
Total
$ 6
____
____
30
Part I
Overview
7Sometimes financial analysts refer to a firm’s free cash flow. Free cash flow is the cash flow in excess of that
required to fund profitable capital projects. We call free cash flow the total cash flow of the firm.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
38
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 2
Accounting Statements and Cash Flow
31
2. Calculations of cash flow are not difficult, but they require care and particular attention to
detail in properly accounting for noncash expenses such as depreciation and deferred taxes. It
is especially important that you do not confuse cash flow with changes in net working capital
and net income.
KEY TERMS
Balance sheet
22
Income statement
25
Cash flow
27
Noncash items
26
Change in net working capital
27
Operating cash flow
30
Free cash flow
30
Total cash flow of the firm
30
Generally accepted accounting 
principles (GAAP)
24
SUGGESTED READING
There are many excellent textbooks on accounting. The one that we have found helpful is:
Kieso, D. E., and J. J. Weygandt. Intermediate Accounting, 7th ed. New York: John Wiley. 1992.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
The Balance Sheet
2.1 Prepare a December 31 balance sheet using the following data:
Cash
$ 4,000
Patents
82,000
Accounts payable
6,000
Accounts receivable
8,000
Taxes payable
2,000
Machinery
34,000
Bonds payable
7,000
Accumulated retained 
earnings
6,000
Capital surplus
19,000
The par value of the firm’s common stock is $100.
2.2 The following table presents the long-term liabilities and stockholders’ equity of
Information Control Corp. of one year ago.
Long-term debt
$50,000,000
Preferred stock
30,000,000
Common stock
100,000,000
Retained earnings
20,000,000
During the past year, Information Control issued $10 million of new common stock. The firm
generated $5 million of net income and paid $3 million of dividends. Construct today’s balance
sheet reflecting the changes that occurred at Information Control Corp. during the year.
The Income Statement
2.3 Prepare an income statement using the following data.
Sales
$500,000
Cost of goods sold
200,000
Administrative 
expenses
100,000
Interest expense
50,000
The firm’s tax rate is 34 percent.
Chapter 2
Accounting Statements and Cash Flow
31

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
39
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
32
Part I
Overview
2.4 The Flying Lion Corporation reported the following data on the income statement of one of
its divisions. Flying Lion Corporation has other profitable divisions.
a. Prepare an income statement for each year.
b. Determine the operating cash flow during each year.
Financial Cash Flow
2.5 What are the differences between accounting profit and cash flow?
2.6 During 1998, the Senbet Discount Tire Company had gross sales of $1 million. The firm’s cost
of goods sold and selling expenses were $300,000 and $200,000, respectively. These figures do
not include depreciation. Senbet also had notes payable of $1 million. These notes carried an
interest rate of 10 percent. Depreciation was $100,000. Senbet’s tax rate in 1998 was 35 percent.
a. What was Senbet’s net operating income?
b. What were the firm’s earnings before taxes?
c. What was Senbet’s net income?
d. What was Senbet’s operating cash flow?
2.7 The Stancil Corporation provided the following current information.
Determine the cash flow for the Stancil Corporation.
2.8 Ritter Corporation’s accountants prepared the following financial statements for year-end 20X2.
RITTER CORPORATION
Income Statement
20X2
Revenue
$400
Expenses
250
Depreciation
50
____
Net income
$100
Dividends
$ 50
RITTER CORPORATION
Balance Sheets
December 31
20X2
20X1
Assets
Current assets
$150
$100
Net fixed assets
200
100
____
____
Total assets
$350
$200
Liabilities and Equity
Current liabilities
$ 75
$ 50
Long-term debt
75
0
Stockholders’ equity
200
150
____
____
Total liabilities and equity
$350
$200
Proceeds from short-term borrowing
$ 6,000
Proceeds from long-term borrowing
20,000
Proceeds from the sale of common stock
1,000
Purchases of fixed assets
1,000
Purchases of inventories
4,000
Payment of dividends
22,000
20X2
20X1
Net sales
$800,000
$500,000
Cost of goods sold
560,000
320,000
Operating expenses
75,000
56,000
Depreciation
300,000
200,000
Tax rate (%)
30
30

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
40
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
a. Determine the change in net working capital in 20X2.
b. Determine the cash flow during the year 20X2.
Appendix 2A FINANCIAL STATEMENT ANALYSIS
The objective of this appendix is to show how to rearrange information from financial state-
ments into financial ratios that provide information about five areas of financial performance:
1. Short-term solvency—the ability of the firm to meet its short-run obligations.
2. Activity—the ability of the firm to control its investment in assets.
3. Financial leverage—the extent to which a firm relies on debt financing.
4. Profitability—the extent to which a firm is profitable.
5. Value—the value of the firm.
Financial statements cannot provide the answers to the preceding five measures of per-
formance. However, management must constantly evaluate how well the firm is doing, and
financial statements provide useful information. The financial statements of the U.S.
Composite Corporation, which appear in Tables 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3, provide the information
for the examples that follow. (Monetary values are given in $ millions.)
Short-Term Solvency
Ratios of short-term solvency measure the ability of the firm to meet recurring financial ob-
ligations (that is, to pay its bills). To the extent a firm has sufficient cash flow, it will be able
to avoid defaulting on its financial obligations and, thus, avoid experiencing financial dis-
tress. Accounting liquidity measures short-term solvency and is often associated with net
working capital, the difference between current assets and current liabilities. Recall that
current liabilities are debts that are due within one year from the date of the balance sheet.
The basic source from which to pay these debts is current assets.
The most widely used measures of accounting liquidity are the current ratio and the
quick ratio.
Current Ratio
To find the current ratio, divide current assets by current liabilities. For the
U.S. Composite Corporation, the figure for 20X2 is
If a firm is having financial difficulty, it may not be able to pay its bills (accounts payable)
on time or it may need to extend its bank credit (notes payable). As a consequence, current
liabilities may rise faster than current assets and the current ratio may fall. This may be the
first sign of financial trouble. Of course, a firm’s current ratio should be calculated over sev-
eral years for historical perspective, and it should be compared to the current ratios of other
firms with similar operating activities.
Quick Ratio
The quick ratio is computed by subtracting inventories from current assets
and dividing the difference (called quick assets) by current liabilities:
Quick assets are those current assets that are quickly convertible into cash. Inventories are
the least liquid current assets. Many financial analysts believe it is important to determine
a firm’s ability to pay off current liabilities without relying on the sale of inventories.
Quick ratio 
Quick assets
Total current liabilities  492
486  1.01
Current ratio 
Total current assets
Total current liabilities  761
486  1.57
Chapter 2
Accounting Statements and Cash Flow
33

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
41
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Activity
Ratios of activity are constructed to measure how effectively the firm’s assets are being
managed. The level of a firm’s investment in assets depends on many factors. For example,
Toys ’
Us might have a large stock of toys at the peak of the Christmas season; yet that
same inventory in January would be undesirable. How can the appropriate level of invest-
ment in assets be measured? One logical starting point is to compare assets with sales for
the year to arrive at turnover. The idea is to find out how effectively assets are used to gen-
erate sales.
Total Asset Turnover
The total asset turnover ratio is determined by dividing total oper-
ating revenues for the accounting period by the average of total assets. The total asset
turnover ratio for the U.S. Composite Corporation for 20X2 is
This ratio is intended to indicate how effectively a firm is using all of its assets. If the asset
turnover ratio is high, the firm is presumably using its assets effectively in generating sales.
If the ratio is low, the firm is not using its assets to their capacity and must either increase
sales or dispose of some of the assets. One problem in interpreting this ratio is that it is max-
imized by using older assets because their accounting value is lower than newer assets.
Also, firms with relatively small investments in fixed assets, such as retail and wholesale
trade firms, tend to have high ratios of total asset turnover when compared with firms that
require a large investment in fixed assets, such as manufacturing firms.
Receivables Turnover
The ratio of receivables turnover is calculated by dividing sales by
average receivables during the accounting period. If the number of days in the year (365) is
divided by the receivables turnover ratio, the average collection period can be determined.
Net receivables are used for these calculations.9 The receivables turnover ratio and average
collection period for the U.S. Composite Corporation are
The receivables turnover ratio and the average collection period provide some information
on the success of the firm in managing its investment in accounts receivable. The actual
value of these ratios reflects the firm’s credit policy. If a firm has a liberal credit policy, the
amount of its receivables will be higher than would otherwise be the case. One common
rule of thumb that financial analysts use is that the average collection period of a firm should
not exceed the time allowed for payment in the credit terms by more than 10 days.
Average collection period 
Days in period
Receivables turnover  365
8.02  45.5 days
Average receivables  294  270
2
 282
Receivables turnover  Total operating revenues
Receivables average
 2,262
282  8.02
Average total assets  1,879  1,742
2
 1,810.5
Total asset turnover8  Total operating revenues
Total assets average
 2,262
1,810.5  1.25
R
34
Part I
Overview
8Notice that we use an average of total assets in our calculation of total asset turnover. Many financial analysts
use the end of period total asset amount for simplicity.
9Net receivables are determined after an allowance for potential bad debts.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
42
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Inventory Turnover
The ratio of inventory turnover is calculated by dividing the cost of
goods sold by average inventory. Because inventory is always stated in terms of historical cost,
it must be divided by cost of goods sold instead of sales (sales include a margin for profit and
are not commensurate with inventory). The number of days in the year divided by the ratio of
inventory turnover yields the ratio of days in inventory. The ratio of days in inventory is the
number of days it takes to get goods produced and sold; it is called shelf life for retail and
wholesale trade firms. The inventory ratios for the U.S. Composite Corporation are 
The inventory ratios measure how quickly inventory is produced and sold. They are signif-
icantly affected by the production technology of goods being manufactured. It takes longer
to produce a gas turbine engine than a loaf of bread. The ratios also are affected by the per-
ishability of the finished goods. A large increase in the ratio of days in inventory could sug-
gest an ominously high inventory of unsold finished goods or a change in the firm’s prod-
uct mix to goods with longer production periods.
The method of inventory valuation can materially affect the computed inventory ratios.
Thus, financial analysts should be aware of the different inventory valuation methods and
how they might affect the ratios.
Financial Leverage
Financial leverage is related to the extent to which a firm relies on debt financing rather than
equity. Measures of financial leverage are tools in determining the probability that the firm
will default on its debt contracts. The more debt a firm has, the more likely it is that the firm
will become unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. In other words, too much debt can
lead to a higher probability of insolvency and financial distress.
On the positive side, debt is an important form of financing, and provides a significant
tax advantage because interest payments are tax deductible. If a firm uses debt, creditors
and equity investors may have conflicts of interest. Creditors may want the firm to invest in
less risky ventures than those the equity investors prefer.
Debt Ratio
The debt ratio is calculated by dividing total debt by total assets. We can also
use several other ways to express the extent to which a firm uses debt, such as the debt-to-
equity ratio and the equity multiplier (that is, total assets divided by equity). The debt ra-
tios for the U.S. Composite Corporation for 20X2 are
Debt ratios provide information about protection of creditors from insolvency and the abil-
ity of firms to obtain additional financing for potentially attractive investment opportunities.
However, debt is carried on the balance sheet simply as the unpaid balance. Consequently,
Equity multiplier  Total assets
Total equity  1,879
805  2.33
Debt-to-equity ratio  Total debt
Total equity  1,074
805  1.33
Debt ratio  Total debt
Total assets  1,074
1,879  0.57
Days in inventory 
Days in period
Inventory turnover  365
6.03  60.5 days
Average inventory  269  280
2
 274.5
Inventory turnover  Cost of goods sold
Inventory average  1,655
274.5  6.03
Chapter 2
Accounting Statements and Cash Flow
35

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
43
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
no adjustment is made for the current level of interest rates (which may be higher or lower
than when the debt was originally issued) or risk. Thus, the accounting value of debt may
differ substantially from its market value. Some forms of debt may not appear on the balance
sheet at all, such as pension liabilities or lease obligations.
Interest Coverage
The ratio of interest coverage is calculated by dividing earnings (be-
fore interest and taxes) by interest. This ratio emphasizes the ability of the firm to generate
enough income to cover interest expense. This ratio for the U.S. Composite Corporation is
Interest expense is an obstacle that a firm must surmount if it is to avoid default. The ratio
of interest coverage is directly connected to the ability of the firm to pay interest. However,
it would probably make sense to add depreciation to income in computing this ratio and to
include other financing expenses, such as payments of principal and lease payments.
A large debt burden is a problem only if the firm’s cash flow is insufficient to make the
required debt service payments. This is related to the uncertainty of future cash flows. Firms
with predictable cash flows are frequently said to have more debt capacity than firms with
high, uncertain cash flows. Therefore, it makes sense to compute the variability of the firm’s
cash flows. One possible way to do this is to calculate the standard deviation of cash flows
relative to the average cash flow.
Profitability
One of the most difficult attributes of a firm to conceptualize and to measure is profitabil-
ity. In a general sense, accounting profits are the difference between revenues and costs. Un-
fortunately, there is no completely unambiguous way to know when a firm is profitable. At
best, a financial analyst can measure current or past accounting profitability. Many business
opportunities, however, involve sacrificing current profits for future profits. For example,
all new products require large start-up costs and, as a consequence, produce low initial prof-
its. Thus, current profits can be a poor reflection of true future profitability. Another prob-
lem with accounting-based measures of profitability is that they ignore risk. It would be
false to conclude that two firms with identical current profits were equally profitable if the
risk of one was greater than the other.
The most important conceptual problem with accounting measures of profitability is
they do not give us a benchmark for making comparisons. In general, a firm is profitable in
the economic sense only if its profitability is greater than investors can achieve on their own
in the capital markets.
Profit Margin
Profit margins are computed by dividing profits by total operating revenue
and thus they express profits as a percentage of total operating revenue. The most impor-
tant margin is the net profit margin. The net profit margin for the U.S. Composite Corpora-
tion is
In general, profit margins reflect the firm’s ability to produce a product or service at a low cost
or a high price. Profit margins are not direct measures of profitability because they are based
on total operating revenue, not on the investment made in assets by the firm or the equity in-
vestors. Trade firms tend to have low margins and service firms tend to have high margins.
Gross profit margin  Earnings before interest and taxes
Total operating revenues
 219
2,262  0.097 9.7%
Net profit margin 
Net income
Total operating revenue 
86
2,262  0.038 3.8%
Interest coverage  Earnings before interest and taxes
Interest expense
 219
49  4.5
36
Part I
Overview

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
44
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Return on Assets
One common measure of managerial performance is the ratio of income
to average total assets, both before tax and after tax. These ratios for the U.S. Composite
Corporation for 20X2 are
One of the most interesting aspects of return on assets (ROA) is how some financial ratios
can be linked together to compute ROA. One implication of this is usually referred to as the
DuPont system of financial control. This system highlights the fact that ROA can be ex-
pressed in terms of the profit margin and asset turnover. The basic components of the sys-
tem are as follows:
ROA 
Profit margin

Asset turnover
ROA (net) 

0.0475 
0.038

1.25
ROA (gross) 

0.121 
0.097

1.25
Firms can increase ROA by increasing profit margins or asset turnover. Of course, compe-
tition limits their ability to do so simultaneously. Thus, firms tend to face a trade-off be-
tween turnover and margin. In retail trade, for example, mail-order outfits such as L. L.
Bean have low margins and high turnover, whereas high-quality jewelry stores such as
Tiffany’s have high margins and low turnover.
It is often useful to describe financial strategies in terms of margins and turnover. Suppose
a firm selling pneumatic equipment is thinking about providing customers with more liberal
credit terms. This will probably decrease asset turnover (because receivables would increase
more than sales). Thus, the margins will have to go up to keep ROA from falling.
Return on Equity
This ratio (ROE) is defined as net income (after interest and taxes) di-
vided by average common stockholders’equity, which for the U.S. Composite Corporation is
The most important difference between ROA and ROE is due to financial leverage. To see
this, consider the following breakdown of ROE:
ROE  Profit margin

Asset turnover

Equity multiplier
Total operating
Average



revenue
assets
equity
0.112 
0.038

1.25

2.36
From the preceding numbers, it would appear that financial leverage always magnifies
ROE. Actually, this occurs only when ROA (gross) is greater than the interest rate on debt.
total assets
Average stockholders'
revenue
Average total
Net income
Total operating
Average stockholders' equity  805  725
2
 765
ROE 
Net income
Average stockholders' equity  86
765  0.112 11.27%
Total operating revenue
Average total assets
Earnings before interest and taxes
Total operating revenue
Total operating revenue
Average total assets
Net income
Total operating revenue
 Gross return on assets  Earnings before interest and taxes
Average total assets

219
1,810.5  0.121 12.1%
 Net return on assets 
Net income
Average total assets 
86
1,810.5  0.0475 4.75%
Chapter 2
Accounting Statements and Cash Flow
37

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
45
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Payout Ratio
The payout ratio is the proportion of net income paid out in cash dividends.
For the U.S. Composite Corporation
The retention ratio for the U.S. Composite Corporation is
Retained earnings  Net income  Dividends
The Sustainable Growth Rate
One ratio that is very helpful in financial analysis is called the sustainable growth rate.
It is the maximum rate of growth a firm can maintain without increasing its financial
leverage and using internal equity only. The precise value of sustainable growth can be
calculated as
Sustainable growth rate  ROE  Retention ratio
For the U.S. Composite Company, ROE is 11.2 percent. The retention ratio is 1/2, so we
can calculate the sustainable growth rate as
Sustainable growth rate  11.2  (1/2)  5.6%
The U.S. Composite Corporation can expand at a maximum rate of 5.6 percent per year
with no external equity financing or without increasing financial leverage. (We discuss sus-
tainable growth in Chapters 5 and 26.)
Market Value Ratios
We can learn many things from a close examination of balance sheets and income state-
ments. However, one very important characteristic of a firm that cannot be found on an ac-
counting statement is its market value.
Market Price
The market price of a share of common stock is the price that buyers and
sellers establish when they trade the stock. The market value of the common equity of a
firm is the market price of a share of common stock multiplied by the number of shares
outstanding.
Sometimes the words “fair market value” are used to describe market prices. Fair mar-
ket value is the amount at which common stock would change hands between a willing
buyer and a willing seller, both having knowledge of the relevant facts. Thus, market prices
give guesses about the true worth of the assets of a firm. In an efficient stock market, mar-
ket prices reflect all relevant facts about firms, and thus market prices reveal the true value
of the firm’s underlying assets.
The market value of IBM is many times greater than that of Apple Computer. This may
suggest nothing more than the fact that IBM is a bigger firm than Apple (hardly a surpris-
ing revelation). Financial analysts construct ratios to extract information that is independ-
ent of a firm’s size.
Price-to-Earnings (P/E) Ratio
One way to calculate the P/E ratio is to divide the current
market price by the earnings per share of common stock for the latest year. The P/E ratios
of some of the largest firms in the United States and Japan are as follows:
Retention ratio  Retained earnings
Net income
 43
86  0.5
Payout ratio  Cash dividends
Net income
 43
86  0.5
38
Part I
Overview

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
46
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
As can be seen, some firms have high P/E ratios (Sony, for example) and some firms have
low ones (General Motors).
Dividend Yield
The dividend yield is calculated by annualizing the last observed dividend
payment of a firm and dividing by the current market price:
The dividend yields for several large firms in the United States and Japan are:
Dividend yields are related to the market’s perception of future growth prospects for firms.
Firms with high growth prospects will generally have lower dividend yields.
Market-to-Book (M/B) Value and the Q ratio
The market-to-book value ratio is calcu-
lated by dividing the market price per share by the book value per share.
The market-to-book ratios of several of the largest firms in the United States and
Japan are:
There is another ratio, called Tobin’s Q, that is very much like the M/B ratio.10 Tobin’s Q
ratio divides the market value of all of the firm’s debt plus equity by the replacement value
of the firm’s assets. The Q ratios for several firms are:
Q Ratio11
High Qs
Coca-Cola
4.2
IBM
4.2
Low Qs
National Steel
0.53
U.S. Steel
0.61
Market-to-Book Ratios
2000
United States
Japan
AT&T
1
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone
3.4
General Motors
2.4
Toyota Motor
2.8
Hewlett Packard
8
Sony
3.5
Dividend Yield (%)
2000
United States
Japan
AT&T
0.9
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone
0.4
General Motors
2.0
Toyota Motor
0.5
Hewlett Packard
0.6
Sony
0.3
Dividend yield 
Dividend per share
Market price per share
P/E Ratios
2000
United States
Japan
AT&T
24
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone
53
General Motors
8
Toyota Motor
44
Hewlett Packard
43
Sony
72
Chapter 2
Accounting Statements and Cash Flow
39
10Kee H. Chung and Stephen W. Pruitt, “A Simple Approximation of Tobin’s Q,” Financial Management
Vol 23, No. 3 (Autumn 1994).
11E. B. Lindberg and S. Ross, “Tobin’s Q and Industrial Organization,” Journal of Business 54 (January 1981).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
47
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The Q ratio differs from the M/B ratio in that the Q ratio uses market value of the debt
plus equity. It also uses the replacement value of all assets and not the historical cost
value.
It should be obvious that if a firm has a Q ratio above 1 it has an incentive to in-
vest that is probably greater than a firm with a Q ratio below 1. Firms with high Q ra-
tios tend to be those firms with attractive investment opportunities or a significant com-
petitive advantage.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Much research indicates that accounting statements provide important information about
the value of the firm. Financial analysts and managers learn how to rearrange financial
statements to squeeze out the maximum amount of information. In particular, analysts and
managers use financial ratios to summarize the firm’s liquidity, activity, financial leverage,
and profitability. When possible, they also use market values. This appendix describes the
most popular financial ratios. You should keep in mind the following points when trying to
interpret financial statements:
1. Measures of profitability such as return on equity suffer from several potential deficien-
cies as indicators of performance. They do not take into account the risk or timing of
cash flows.
2. Financial ratios are linked to one another. For example, return on equity is determined
from the profit margins, the asset turnover ratio, and the financial leverage.
Appendix 2B STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
There is an official accounting statement called the statement of cash flows. This statement
helps explain the change in accounting cash, which for U.S. Composite is $33 million in
20X2. It is very useful in understanding financial cash flow. Notice in Table 2.1 that cash
increases from $107 million in 20X1 to $140 million in 20X2.
The first step in determining the change in cash is to figure out cash flow from operat-
ing activities. This is the cash flow that results from the firm’s normal activities producing
and selling goods and services. The second step is to make an adjustment for cash flow from
investing activities. The final step is to make an adjustment for cash flow from financing ac-
tivities. Financing activities are the net payments to creditors and owners (excluding inter-
est expense) made during the year.
The three components of the statement of cash flows are determined below.
Cash Flow from Operating Activities
To calculate cash flow from operating activities we start with net income. Net income can
be found on the income statement and is equal to 86. We now need to add back noncash ex-
penses and adjust for changes in current assets and liabilities (other than cash). The result
is cash flow from operating activities.
40
Part I
Overview

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
48
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Cash Flow from Investing Activities
Cash flow from investing activities involves changes in capital assets: acquisition of fixed
assets and sales of fixed assets (i.e., net capital expenditures). The result for U.S. Compos-
ite is below.
Cash Flow from Financing Activities
Cash flows to and from creditors and owners include changes in equity and debt.
The statement of cash flows is the addition of cash flows from operations, cash flows
from investing activities, and cash flows from financing activities, and is produced in Table
2.4. There is a close relationship between the official accounting statement called the state-
ment of cash flows and the total cash flow of the firm used in finance. The difference be-
tween cash flow from financing activities and total cash flow of the firm (see Table 2.3) is
interest expense.
U.S. COMPOSITE CORPORATION
Cash Flow from Financing Activities
20X2
(in $ millions)
Retirement of debt (includes notes)
$(73)
Proceeds from long-term debt sales
86
Dividends
(43)
Repurchase of stock
(6)
Proceeds from new stock issue
43
____
Cash flow from financing activities
$
7
____
____
U.S. COMPOSITE CORPORATION
Cash Flow from Investing Activities
20X2
(in $ millions)
Acquisition of fixed assets
(198)
Sales of fixed assets
25
____
Cash flow from investing activities
(173)
____
____
U.S. COMPOSITE CORPORATION
Cash Flow from Operating Activities
20X2
(in $ millions)
Net income
86
Depreciation
90
Deferred taxes
13
Change in assets and liabilities
Accounts receivable
(24)
Inventories
11
Accounts payable
16
Accrued expense
18
Notes payable
(3)
Other
(8)
___
Cash flow from operating activities
199
___
___
Chapter 2
Accounting Statements and Cash Flow
41

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
49
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Appendix 2C U.S. FEDERAL TAX RATES
As of the printing date of this text, the following United States federal tax rules apply.
1. The top marginal rate for corporations is 39 percent (see Table 2.5). The highest mar-
ginal rate for individuals is 39.6 percent (see Table 2.6).
2. Short-term realized capital gains and ordinary income are taxed at the corporation’s or
individual’s marginal rate.
3. For individuals, long-term capital gains (in excess of long-term and short-term capital
losses) are taxed at a preferential rate. Generally, the top rate for long-term capital gains
is 20 percent for capital assets held more than 18 months and 28 percent for capital as-
sets held between one year and 18 months. For taxpayers in the 15 percent bracket, the
rate is 15 percent for capital assets held between 12 and 18 months and 10 percent for
assets held longer than 18 months.
42
Part I
Overview
I TABLE 2A.4 Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows of the U.S.
Composite Corporation
U.S. COMPOSITE CORPORATION
Statement of Cash Flows
20X2
(in $ millions)
Operations
Net income
$ 86
Depreciation
90
Deferred taxes
13
Changes in assets and liabilities
Accounts receivable
(24)
Inventories
11
Accounts payable
16
Accrued expenses
18
Notes payable
(3)
Other
(8)
_____
Total cash flow from operations
$ 199
_____
_____
Investing activities
Acquisition of fixed assets
$(198)
Sales of fixed assets
25
_____
Total cash flow from investing activities
$(173)
_____
_____
Financing activities
Retirement of debt (including notes)
$ (73)
Proceeds of long-term debt
86
Dividends
(43)
Repurchase of stock
(6)
Proceeds from new stock issues
43
_____
Total cash flow from financing activities
$
7
_____
_____
Change in cash (on the balance sheet)
$ 33
_____
_____

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
I. Overview
2. Accounting Statements 
and Cash Flow
50
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
4. Dividends received by a U.S. corporation are 100 percent exempt from taxation if the
dividend-paying corporation is fully owned by the other corporation. The exemption is
80 percent if the receiving corporation owns between 20 and 80 percent of the paying
corporation. In all other cases, the exemption is 70 percent.
Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT)
Corporations and individuals must pay either their regularly calculated tax or an alternative
minimum tax, whichever is higher. The alternative minimum tax is calculated with lower
rates (either 26 or 28 percent for individuals or 20 percent for corporations) applied to a
broader base of income. The broader base is determined by taking taxable income and
adding back certain tax preference items, e.g., accelerated depreciation, which reduce reg-
ular taxable income. A corporation which had average gross receipts of less than $5 million
for calendar years 1998 through 2000 is exempt from the alternative minimum tax as long
as average gross receipts do not exceed $7.5 million.
Tax Operating Loss Carrybacks and Carryforwards
The federal tax law permits corporations to carry back net operating losses two years and
to carry forward net operating losses for 20 years.
Chapter 2
Accounting Statements and Cash Flow
43
I TABLE 2A.5 Corporation Income Tax Rates for 2000
Corporations
Taxable Income
Over
Not Over
Tax Rate
$
0
$
50,000
15%
50,000
75,000
25
75,000
100,000
34
100,000
335,000
39
335,000
10,000,000
34
10,000,000
15,000,000
35
15,000,000
18,333,333
38
18,333,333
—
35
I TABLE 2A.6 Tax Rates for Married Individuals Filing Jointly and
Surviving Spouses—2000
Taxable Income
Of the
But Not
Percent on
Amount
Over
Over
Pay

Excess
Over
$
0
$ 41,200
$
0
15%
$
0
41,200
99,600
6,180.00
28
41,200
99,600
151,750
22,532.00
31
99,600
151,750
271,050
38,698.50
36
151,750
271,050
—
81,646.50
39.6
271,050

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
Introduction
51
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Value and 
Capital Budgeting
PART II
3 Financial Markets and Net Present Value: First Principles of Finance (Advanced) 46
4 Net Present Value 66
5 How to Value Bonds and Stocks 102
6 Some Alternative Investment Rules 140
7 Net Present Value and Capital Budgeting 169
8 Strategy and Analysis in Using Net Present Value 200
F
IRMS and individuals invest in a large variety of assets. Some are real assets such as
machinery and land, and some are financial assets such as stocks and bonds. The ob-
ject of an investment is to maximize the value of the investment. In the simplest terms,
this means to find assets that have more value to the firm than they cost. To do this we
need a theory of value. We develop a theory of value in Part II.
Finance is the study of markets and instruments that deal with cash flows over time.
In Chapter 3 we describe how financial markets allow us to determine the value of fi-
nancial instruments. We study some stylized examples of money over time and show
why financial markets and financial instruments are created. We introduce the basic prin-
ciples of rational decision making. We apply these principles to a two-period investment.
Here we introduce one of the most important ideas in finance: net present value (NPV).
We show why net present value is useful and the conditions that make it applicable.
In Chapter 4 we extend the concept of net present value to more than one time period.
The mathematics of compounding and discounting are presented. In Chapter 5 we apply
net present value to bonds and stocks. This is a very important chapter because net present
value can be used to determine the value of a wide variety of financial instruments.
Although we have made a strong case for using the NPV rule in Chapters 3 and 4,
Chapter 6 presents four other rules: the payback rule, the accounting-rate-of-return rule,
the internal rate of return (IRR), and the profitability index. Each of these alternatives
has some redeeming features, but these qualities aren’t sufficient to let any of the alter-
natives replace the NPV rule.
In Chapter 7 we analyze how to estimate the cash flows required for capital budg-
eting. We start the chapter with a discussion of the concept of incremental cash flows—
the difference between the cash flows for the firm with and without the project. Chapter
8 focuses on assessing the reliability and reasonableness of estimates of NPV. The chap-
ter introduces techniques for dealing with uncertain incremental cash flows in capital
budgeting, including break-even analysis, decision trees, and sensitivity analysis.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
52
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Financial Markets and
Net Present Value: First
Principles of Finance
(Advanced)
CHAPTER 3
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
F
inance refers to the process by which special markets deal with cash flows over time.
These markets are called financial markets. Making investment and financing deci-
sions requires an understanding of the basic economic principles of financial markets.
This introductory chapter describes a financial market as one that makes it possible for indi-
viduals and corporations to borrow and lend. As a consequence, financial markets can be
used by individuals to adjust their patterns of consumption over time and by corporations to
adjust their patterns of investment spending over time. The main point of this chapter is that
individuals and corporations can use the financial markets to help them make investment de-
cisions. We introduce one of the most important ideas in finance: net present value.
3.1 THE FINANCIAL MARKET ECONOMY
Financial markets develop to facilitate borrowing and lending between individuals. Here we
talk about how this happens. Suppose we describe the economic circumstances of two peo-
ple, Tom and Leslie. Both Tom and Leslie have current income of $100,000. Tom is a very
patient person, and some people call him a miser. He wants to consume only $50,000 of
current income and save the rest. Leslie is a very impatient person, and some people call
her extravagant. She wants to consume $150,000 this year. Tom and Leslie have different
intertemporal consumption preferences.
Such preferences are personal matters and have more to do with psychology than with
finance. However, it seems that Tom and Leslie could strike a deal: Tom could give up some
of his income this year in exchange for future income that Leslie can promise to give him.
Tom can lend $50,000 to Leslie, and Leslie can borrow $50,000 from Tom.
Suppose that they do strike this deal, with Tom giving up $50,000 this year in exchange
for $55,000 next year. This is illustrated in Figure 3.1 with the basic cash flow time chart,
a representation of the timing and amount of the cash flows. The cash flows that are received
are represented by an arrow pointing up from the point on the time line at which the cash
flow occurs. The cash flows paid out are represented by an arrow pointing down. In other
words, for each dollar Tom trades away or lends, he gets a commitment to get it back as
well as to receive 10 percent more.
In the language of finance, 10 percent is the annual rate of interest on the loan. When
a dollar is lent out, the repayment of $1.10 can be thought of as being made up of two parts.
First, the lender gets the dollar back; that is the principal repayment. Second, the lender re-
ceives an interest payment, which is $0.10 in this example.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
53
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 3
Financial Markets and Net Present Value: First Principles of Finance (Advanced)
47
Now, not only have Tom and Leslie struck a deal, but as a by-product of their bargain
they have created a financial instrument, the IOU. This piece of paper entitles whoever re-
ceives it to present it to Leslie in the next year and redeem it for $55,000. Financial instru-
ments that entitle whoever possesses them to receive payment are called bearer instruments
because whoever bears them can use them. Presumably there could be more such IOUs in
the economy written by many different lenders and borrowers like Tom and Leslie.
The Anonymous Market
If the borrower does not care whom he has to pay back, and if the lender does not care
whose IOUs he is holding, we could just as well drop Tom’s and Leslie’s names from their
contract. All we need is a record book, in which we could record the fact that Tom has lent
$50,000 and Leslie has borrowed $50,000 and that the terms of the loan, the interest rate,
are 10 percent. Perhaps another person could keep the records for borrowers and lenders,
for a fee, of course. In fact, and this is one of the virtues of such an arrangement, Tom and
Leslie wouldn’t even need to meet. Instead of needing to find and trade with each other, they
could each trade with the record keeper. The record keeper could deal with thousands of
such borrowers and lenders, none of whom would need to meet the other.
Institutions that perform this sort of market function, matching borrowers and lenders
or traders, are called financial intermediaries. Stockbrokers and banks are examples of fi-
nancial intermediaries in our modern world. A bank’s depositors lend the bank money, and
the bank makes loans from the funds it has on deposit. In essence, the bank is an interme-
diary between the depositors and the ultimate borrowers. To make the market work, we
must be certain that the market clears. By market clearing we mean that the total amount
that people like Tom wish to lend to the market should equal the total amount that people
like Leslie wish to borrow.
Market Clearing
If the lenders wish to lend more than the borrowers want to borrow, then presumably the in-
terest rate is too high. Because there would not be enough borrowing for all of the lenders
at, say, 15 percent, there are really only two ways that the market could be made to clear. One
is to ration the lenders. For example, if the lenders wish to lend $20 million when interest
Tom’s cash flows
Cash inflows
Time
0
1
– $50,000
$55,000
Cash outflows
Leslie’s cash flows
Cash inflows
Time
0
1
– $55,000
$50,000
Cash outflows
I FIGURE 3.1 Tom’s and Leslie’s Cash Flow

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
54
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
rates are at 15 percent and the borrowers wish to borrow only $8 million, the market could
take, say, 8/20 of each dollar, or $0.40, from each of the lenders and distribute it to the bor-
rowers. This is one possible scheme for making the market clear, but it is not one that would
be sustainable in a free and competitive marketplace. Why not?
To answer this important question, let’s go back to our lender, Tom. Tom sees that in-
terest rates are 15 percent and, not surprisingly, rather than simply lending the $50,000 that
he was willing to lend when rates were 10 percent, Tom decides that at the higher rates he
would like to lend more, say $80,000. But since the lenders want to lend more money than
the borrowers want to borrow, the record keepers tell Tom that they won’t be able to take
all of his $80,000; rather, they will take only 40 percent of it, or $32,000. With the interest
rate at 15 percent, people are not willing to borrow enough to match up with all of the loans
that are available at that rate.
Tom is not very pleased with that state of affairs, but he can do something to improve
his situation. Suppose that he knows that Leslie is borrowing $20,000 in the market at the 15
percent interest rate. That means that Leslie must repay $20,000 on her loan next year plus
the interest of 15 percent of $20,000 or 0.15  $20,000  $3,000. Suppose that Tom goes
to Leslie and offers to lend her the $20,000 for 14 percent. Leslie is happy because she will
save 1 percent on the deal and will need to pay back only $2,800 in interest next year. This
is $200 less than if she had borrowed from the record keepers. Tom is happy too, because he
has found a way to lend some of the money that the record keepers would not take. The net
result of this transaction is that the record keepers have lost Leslie as a customer. Why should
she borrow from them when Tom will lend her the money at a lower interest rate?
Tom and Leslie are not the only ones cutting side deals in the marketplace, and it is
clear that the record keepers will not be able to maintain the 15 percent rate. The interest
rate must fall if they are to stay in business.
Suppose, then, that the market clears at the rate of 10 percent. At this rate the amount
of money that the lenders wish to lend is exactly equal to the amount that the borrowers de-
sire. We refer to the interest rate that clears the market, 10 percent in our example, as the
equilibrium rate of interest.
In this section we have shown that in the market for loans, bonds or IOUs are traded.
These are financial instruments. The interest rate on these loans is set so that the total de-
mand for such loans by borrowers equals the total supply of loans by lenders. At a higher
interest rate, lenders wish to supply more loans than are demanded, and if the interest rate
is lower than this equilibrium level, borrowers demand more loans than lenders are willing
to supply.
• What is an interest rate?
• What are institutions that match borrowers and lenders called?
• What do we mean when we say a market clears? What is an equilibrium rate of interest?
3.2 MAKING CONSUMPTION CHOICES OVER TIME
Figure 3.2 illustrates the situation faced by a representative individual in the financial mar-
ket. This person is assumed to have an income of $50,000 this year and an income of
$60,000 next year. The market allows him not only to consume $50,000 worth of goods this
year and $60,000 next year, but also to borrow and lend at the equilibrium interest rate.
The line AB in Figure 3.2 shows all of the consumption possibilities open to the person
through borrowing or lending, and the shaded area contains all of the feasible choices. Let’s
look at this figure more closely to see exactly why points in the shaded area are available.
48
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
55
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
We will use the letter r to denote the interest rate—the equilibrium rate—in this mar-
ket. The rate is risk-free because we assume that no default can take place. Look at point A
on the vertical axis of Figure 3.2. Point A is a height of
A  $60,000  [$50,000  (1  r)]
For example, if the rate of interest is 10 percent, then point A would be
A  $60,000  [$50,000  (1  0.1)]
 $60,000  $55,000
 $115,000
Point A is the maximum amount of wealth that this person can spend in the second year.
He gets to point A by lending the full income that is available this year, $50,000, and con-
suming none of it. In the second year, then, he will have the second year’s income of
$60,000 plus the proceeds from the loan that he made in the first year, $55,000, for a total
of $115,000.
Now let’s take a look at point B. Point B is a distance of
B  $50,000  [$60,000/(1  r)]
along the horizontal axis. If the interest rate is 10 percent, point B will be
B  $50,000  [$60,000/(1  0.1)]
 $50,000  $54,545
 $104,545
(We have rounded off to the nearest dollar.)
Why do we divide next year’s income of $60,000 by (1  r), or 1.1 in the preceding
computation? Point B represents the maximum amount available for this person to consume
this year. To achieve that maximum he would borrow as much as possible and repay the loan
from the income, $60,000, that he was going to receive next year. Because $60,000 will be
available to repay the loan next year, we are asking how much he could borrow this year at
an interest rate of r and still be able to repay the loan. The answer is
$60,000/(1  r)
Chapter 3
Financial Markets and Net Present Value: First Principles of Finance (Advanced)
49
Consumption next year
Slope = – (1 + r )
C
Y
D
B
$115,000
$71,000
$60,000
$49,000
$40,000
$60,000
$50,000
Consumption this year
Borrowing
Lending
A
$104,545
I FIGURE 3.2 Intertemporal Consumption Opportunities

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
56
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
because if he borrows this amount, he must repay it next year with interest. Thus, next year
he must repay
[$60,000/(1  r)]  (1  r)  $60,000
no matter what the interest rate, r, is. In our example we found that he could borrow $54,545
and, sure enough,
$54,545  1.1  $60,000
(after rounding off to the nearest dollar).
Furthermore, by borrowing and lending different amounts the person can achieve any
point on the line AB. For example, point C is a point where he has chosen to lend $10,000
of today’s income. This means that at point C he will have
Consumption this year at point C  $50,000  $10,000  $40,000
and
Consumption next year at point C  $60,000  [$10,000  (1  r)]  $71,000
when the interest rate is 10 percent.
Similarly, at point D, the individual has decided to borrow $10,000 and repay the loan
next year. At point D, then,
Consumption this year at point D  $50,000  $10,000  $60,000
and
Consumption next year at point D  $60,000  [$10,000  (1  r)]  $49,000
at an interest rate of 10 percent.
In fact, this person can consume any point on the line AB. This line has a slope of (1  r),
which means that for each dollar that is added to the x coordinate along the line, (1  r) dol-
lars are subtracted from the y coordinate. Moving along the line from point A, the initial point
of $50,000 this year and $60,000 next year, toward point B gives the person more consump-
tion today and less next year. In other words, moving toward point B is borrowing. Similarly,
moving up toward point A, he is consuming less today and more next year and is lending. The
line is a straight line because the individual has no effect on the interest rate. This is one of the
assumptions of perfectly competitive financial markets.
Where will the person actually be? The answer to that question depends on the indi-
vidual’s tastes and personal situation, just as it did before there was a market. If the person
is impatient, he might wish to borrow money at a point such as D, and if he is patient, he
might wish to lend some of this year’s income and enjoy more consumption next year at,
for example, a point such as C.
Notice that whether we think of someone as patient or impatient depends on the inter-
est rate he or she faces in the market. Suppose that our individual was impatient and chose
to borrow $10,000 and move to point D. Now suppose that we raise the interest rate to 20
percent or even 50 percent. Suddenly our impatient person may become very patient and
might prefer to lend some of this year’s income to take advantage of the very high interest
rate. The general result is depicted in Figure 3.3. We can see that lending at point C′ yields
much greater future income and consumption possibilities than before.1
1Those familiar with consumer theory might be aware of the surprising case where raising the interest rate actually
makes people borrow more or lowering the rate makes them lend more. The latter case might occur, for example, if
the decline in the interest rate made the lenders have so little consumption next year that they have no choice but to
lend out even more than they were lending before just to subsist. Nothing we do depends on excluding such cases,
but it is much easier to ignore them, and the resulting analysis fits the real markets more closely.
50
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
57
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
• How does an individual change his consumption across periods through borrowing and
lending?
• How do interest rate changes affect one’s degree of impatience?
3.3 THE COMPETITIVE MARKET
In the previous analysis we assumed the individual moves freely along the line AB, and we
ignored—and assumed that the individual ignored—any effect his borrowing or lending de-
cisions might have on the equilibrium interest rate itself. What would happen, though, if the
total amount of loans outstanding in the market when the person was doing no borrowing
or lending was $10 million, and if our person then decided to lend, say, $5 million? His
lending would be half as much as the rest of the market put together, and it would not be
unreasonable to think that the equilibrium interest rate would fall to induce more borrow-
ers into the market to take his additional loans. In such a situation the person would have
some power in the market to influence the equilibrium rate significantly, and he would take
this power into consideration in making his decisions.
In the modern financial market, however, the total amount of borrowing and lending is
not $10 million; rather, as we saw in Chapter 1, it is closer to $10 trillion. In such a huge
market no one investor or even any single company can have a significant effect (although
a government might). We assume, then, in all of our subsequent discussions and analyses
that the financial market is competitive. By that we mean no individuals or firms think they
have any effect whatsoever on the interest rates that they face no matter how much bor-
rowing, lending, or investing they do. In the language of economics, individuals who re-
spond to rates and prices by acting as though they have no influence on them are called price
takers, and this assumption is sometimes called the price-taking assumption. It is the con-
dition of perfectly competitive financial markets (or, more simply, perfect markets). The
following conditions are likely to lead to this:
Chapter 3
Financial Markets and Net Present Value: First Principles of Finance (Advanced)
51
Consumption next year
Slope = – 1.5
Y
D
B
$115,000
$75,000
$60,000
$49,000
$40,000
$60,000
$50,000
Consumption this year
Borrowing
Lending
A′
$45,000
$71,000
A
B′
D′
C′
$90,000
Slope = – 1.1
0
$104,545
$135,000
C
I FIGURE 3.3 The Effect of Different Interest Rates on Consumption
Opportunities
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
58
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
1. Trading is costless. Access to the financial markets is free.
2. Information about borrowing and lending opportunities is available.
3. There are many traders, and no single trader can have a significant impact on market prices.
How Many Interest Rates Are There in a Competitive Market?
An important point about this one-year market where no defaults can take place is that only
one interest rate can be quoted in the market at any one time. Suppose that some competing
record keepers decide to set up a rival market. To attract customers, their business plan is to
offer lower interest rates, say, 9 percent. Their business plan is based on the hope that they
will be able to attract borrowers away from the first market and soon have all of the business.
Their business plan will work, but it will do so beyond their wildest expectations. They
will indeed attract the borrowers, all $11 million worth of them! But the matter doesn’t stop
there. By offering to borrow and lend at 9 percent when another market is offering 10 per-
cent, they have created the proverbial money machine.
The world of finance is populated by sharp-eyed inhabitants who would not let this op-
portunity slip by them. Any one of these, whether a borrower or a lender, would go to the
new market and borrow everything he could at the 9-percent rate. At the same time he was
borrowing in the new market, he would also be striking a deal to lend in the old market at
the 10-percent rate. If he could borrow $100 million at 9 percent and lend it at 10 percent,
he would be able to net 1 percent, or $1 million, next year. He would repay the $109 mil-
lion he owed to the new market from the $110 million he receives when the 10-percent loans
he made in the original market are repaid, pocketing $1 million profit.
This process of striking a deal in one market and an offsetting deal in another market
simultaneously and at more favorable terms is called arbitrage, and doing it is called arbi-
traging. Of course, someone must be paying for all this free money, and it must be the record
keepers because the borrowers and the lenders are all making money. Our intrepid entre-
preneurs will lose their proverbial shirts and go out of business. The moral of this is clear:
As soon as different interest rates are offered for essentially the same risk-free loans, arbi-
trageurs will take advantage of the situation by borrowing at the low rate and lending at the
high rate. The gap between the two rates will be closed quickly, and for all practical pur-
poses there will be only one rate available in the market.
• What is the most important feature of a competitive financial market?
• What conditions are likely to lead to this?
3.4 THE BASIC PRINCIPLE
We have already shown how people use the financial markets to adjust their patterns of con-
sumption over time to fit their particular preferences. By borrowing and lending, they can
greatly expand their range of choices. They need only to have access to a market with an
interest rate at which they can borrow and lend.
In the previous section we saw how these savings and consumption decisions depend
on the interest rate. The financial markets also provide a benchmark against which proposed
investments can be compared, and the interest rate is the basis for a test that any proposed
investment must pass. The financial markets give the individual, the corporation, or even
the government a standard of comparison for economic decisions. This benchmark is criti-
cal when investment decisions are being made.
52
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
59
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The way we use the financial markets to aid us in making investment decisions is a di-
rect consequence of our basic assumption that individuals can never be made worse off by
increasing the range of choices open to them. People always can make use of the financial
markets to adjust their savings and consumption by borrowing or lending. An investment
project is worth undertaking only if it increases the range of choices in the financial mar-
kets. To do this the project must be at least as desirable as what is available in the financial
markets.2 If it were not as desirable as what the financial markets have to offer, people could
simply use the financial markets instead of undertaking the investment. This point will gov-
ern us in all our investment decisions. It is the first principle of investment decision making,
and it is the foundation on which all of our rules are built.
• Describe the basic financial principle of investment decision making.
3.5 PRACTICING THE PRINCIPLE
Let us apply the basic principle of investment decision making to some concrete situations.
A Lending Example
Consider a person who is concerned only about this year and the next. She has an income of
$100,000 this year and expects to make the same amount next year. The interest rate is 10 per-
cent. This individual is thinking about investing in a piece of land that costs $70,000. She is
certain that next year the land will be worth $75,000, a sure $5,000 gain. Should she under-
take the investment? This situation is described in Figure 3.4 with the cash flow time chart.
A moment’s thought should be all it takes to convince her that this is not an attractive
business deal. By investing $70,000 in the land, she will have $75,000 available next year.
Suppose, instead, that she puts the same $70,000 into a loan in the financial market. At the
10-percent rate of interest this $70,000 would grow to
(1  0.1)  $70,000  $77,000
next year.
It would be foolish to buy the land when the same $70,000 investment in the financial
market would beat it by $2,000 (that is, $77,000 from the loan minus $75,000 from the land
investment).
Chapter 3
Financial Markets and Net Present Value: First Principles of Finance (Advanced)
53
Cash inflows
Time
0
1
– $70,000
$75,000
Cash outflows
I FIGURE 3.4 Cash Flows for Investment in Land
2You might wonder what to do if an investment is as desirable as an alternative in the financial markets. In
principle, if there is a tie, it doesn’t matter whether or not we take on the investment. In practice, we’ve never
seen an exact tie.
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
60
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Figure 3.5 illustrates this situation. Notice that the $70,000 loan gives no less income
today and $2,000 more next year. This example illustrates some amazing features of the fi-
nancial markets. It is remarkable to consider all of the information that we did not use when
arriving at the decision not to invest in the land. We did not need to know how much income
the person has this year or next year. We also did not need to know whether the person pre-
ferred more income this year or next.
We did not need to know any of these other facts, and more important, the person mak-
ing the decision did not need to know them either. She only needed to be able to compare
the investment with a relevant alternative available in the financial market. When this in-
vestment fell short of that standard—by $2,000 in the previous example—regardless of
what the individual wanted to do, she knew that she should not buy the land.
A Borrowing Example
Let us sweeten the deal a bit. Suppose that instead of being worth $75,000 next year the
land would be worth $80,000. What should our investor do now? This case is a bit more dif-
ficult. After all, even if the land seems like a good deal, this person’s income this year is
$100,000. Does she really want to make a $70,000 investment this year? Won’t that leave
only $30,000 for consumption?
The answers to these questions are yes, the individual should buy the land; yes, she does
want to make a $70,000 investment this year; and, most surprising of all, even though her in-
come is $100,000, making the $70,000 investment will not leave her with $30,000 to con-
sume this year! Now let us see how finance lets us get around the basic laws of arithmetic.
The financial markets are the key to solving our problem. First, the financial markets can
be used as a standard of comparison against which any investment project must be measured.
Second, they can be used as a tool to actually help the individual undertake investments. These
twin features of the financial markets enable us to make the right investment decision.
Suppose that the person borrows the $70,000 initial investment that is needed to pur-
chase the land. Next year she must repay this loan. Because the interest rate is 10 percent,
she will owe the financial market $77,000 next year. This is depicted in Figure 3.6. Because
the land will be worth $80,000 next year, she can sell it, pay off her debt of $77,000, and
have $3,000 extra cash.
54
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
Consumption next year
$210,000
$30,000
$100,000
Consumption this year
Loan
$175,000
$177,000
$190,909.09
Slope = – 1.10
Land
Consumption
endowment
Y
$100,000
I FIGURE 3.5 Consumption Opportunities with Borrowing and Lending

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
61
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
If she wishes, this person can now consume an extra $3,000 worth of goods and ser-
vices next year. This possibility is illustrated in Figure 3.7. In fact, even if she wants to do all
of her consuming this year, she is still better off taking the investment. All she must do is take
out a loan this year and repay it from the proceeds of the land next year and profit by $3,000.
Furthermore, instead of borrowing just the $70,000 that she needed to purchase the
land, she could have borrowed $72,727.27. She could have used $70,000 to buy the land
and consumed the remaining $2,727.27.
Chapter 3
Financial Markets and Net Present Value: First Principles of Finance (Advanced)
55
Cash flows of borrowing
0
1
– $70,000
$80,000
Cash inflows
Time
0
1
– $77,000
$70,000
Cash outflows
Cash flows of investing in land
Cash inflows
Time
Cash outflows
0
1
$3,000
Cash flows of borrowing and investing in land
Cash inflows
Time
I FIGURE 3.6 Cash Flows of Borrowing to Purchase the Land
Consumption next year
$213,000
$30,000
$100,000
Consumption this year
$100,000
$180,000
$210,000
$190,909.09
Y
$177,000
$193,636.36
$102,727.27
Loan
Land
Land plus borrowing
I FIGURE 3.7 Consumption Opportunities with Investment
Opportunity and Borrowing and Lending

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
62
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
We will call $2,727.27 the net present value of the transaction. Notice that it is equal
to $3,000  1/1.1. How did we figure out that this was the exact amount that she could bor-
row? It was easy: If $72,727.27 is the amount that she borrows, then, because the interest
rate is 10 percent, she must repay
$72,727.27  (1  0.1)  $80,000
next year, and that is exactly what the land will be worth. The line through the investment
position in Figure 3.7 illustrates this borrowing possibility.
The amazing thing about both of these cases, one where the land is worth $75,000 next
year and the other where it is worth $80,000 next year, is that we needed only to compare
the investment with the financial markets to decide whether it was worth undertaking or not.
This is one of the more important points in all of finance. It is true regardless of the con-
sumption preferences of the individual. This is one of a number of separation theorems in
finance. It states that the value of an investment to an individual is not dependent on con-
sumption preferences. In our examples we showed that the person’s decision to invest in
land was not affected by consumption preferences. However, these preferences dictated
whether she borrowed or lent.
• Describe how the financial markets can be used to evaluate investment alternatives.
• What is the separation theorem? Why is it important?
3.6 ILLUSTRATING THE INVESTMENT DECISION
Figure 3.2 describes the possibilities open to a person who has an income of $50,000 this
year and $60,000 next year and faces a financial market in which the interest rate is 10 per-
cent. But, at that moment, the person has no investment possibilities beyond the 10-percent
borrowing and lending that is available in the financial market.
Suppose that we give this person the chance to undertake an investment project that
will require a $30,000 outlay of cash this year and that will return $40,000 to the investor
next year. Refer to Figure 3.2 and determine how you could include this new possibility in
that figure and how you could use the figure to help you decide whether to undertake the
investment.
Now look at Figure 3.8. In Figure 3.8 we have labeled the original point with $50,000
this year and $60,000 next year as point A. We have also added a new point B, with $20,000
available for consumption this year and $100,000 next year. The difference between point
A and point B is that at point A the person is just where we started him off, and at point B
the person has also decided to undertake the investment project. As a result of this decision
the person at point B has
$50,000  $30,000  $20,000
left for consumption this year, and
$60,000  $40,000  $100,000
available next year. These are the coordinates of point B.
We must use our knowledge of the individual’s borrowing and lending opportunities in
order to decide whether to accept or reject the investment. This is illustrated in Figure 3.9.
Figure 3.9 is similar to Figure 3.8, but in it we have drawn a line through point A that shows
56
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
63
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
the possibilities open to the person if he stays at point A and does not take the investment.
This line is exactly the same as the one in Figure 3.2. We have also drawn a parallel line
through point B that shows the new possibilities that are available to the person if he un-
dertakes the investment. The two lines are parallel because the slope of each is determined
by the same interest rate, 10 percent. It does not matter whether the person takes the in-
vestment and goes to point B or does not and stays at point A; in the financial market, each
dollar of lending is a dollar less available for consumption this year and moves him to the
left by a dollar along the x-axis. Because the interest rate is 10 percent, the $1 loan repays
$1.10 and it moves him up by $1.10 along the y-axis.
It is easy to see from Figure 3.9 that the investment has made the person better off. The
line through point B is higher than the line through point A. Thus, no matter what pattern of
consumption this person wanted this year and next, he could have more in each year if he
undertook the investment.
Chapter 3
Financial Markets and Net Present Value: First Principles of Finance (Advanced)
57
Consumption next year
$20,000
Consumption this year
$100,000
$50,000
$60,000
B
A
I FIGURE 3.8 Consumption Choices with Investment but 
No Financial Markets
Consumption next year
$122,000
$20,000 $50,000
Consumption this year
$60,000
$100,000
$115,000
$104,545
B
$67,000
L
C
A
$110,909
$56,364
I FIGURE 3.9 Consumption Choices with Investment Opportunities
and Financial Markets

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
64
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
For example, suppose that our individual wanted to consume everything this year. If he
did not take the investment, the point where the line through point A intersected the x-axis
would give the maximum amount of consumption he could enjoy this year. This point has
$104,545 available this year. To recall how we found this figure, review the analysis of
Figure 3.2. But in Figure 3.9 the line that goes through point B hits the x-axis at a higher
point than the line that goes through point A. Along this line the person can have the $20,000
that is left after investing $30,000, plus all that he can borrow and repay with both next
year’s income and the proceeds from the investment. The total amount available to consume
today is therefore
 $50,000  $30,000  ($60,000  $40,000)/(1  0.1)
 $20,000  ($100,000/1.1)
 $110,909
The additional consumption available this year from undertaking the investment and using
the financial market is the difference on the x-axis between the points where these two lines
intersect:
$110,909  $104,545  $6,364
This difference is an important measure of what the investment is worth to the person.
It answers a variety of questions. For example, it is the answer to the question: How much
money would we need to give the investor this year to make him just as well off as he is
with the investment?
Because the line through point B is parallel to the line through point A but has been
moved over by $6,364, we know that if we were to add this amount to the investor’s current
income this year at point A and take away the investment, he would wind up on the line
through point B and with the same possibilities. If we do this, the person will have $56,364
this year and $60,000 next year, which is the situation of the point on the line through point
B that lies to the right of point A in Figure 3.9. This is point C.
We could also ask a different question: How much money would we need to give the
investor next year to make him just as well off as he is with the investment?
This is the same as asking how much higher the line through point B is than the line
through point A. In other words, what is the difference in Figure 3.9 between the point
where the line through A intercepts the y-axis and the point where the line through B inter-
cepts the y-axis?
The point where the line through A intercepts the y-axis shows the maximum amount
the person could consume next year if all of his current income were lent out and the pro-
ceeds of the loan were consumed along with next year’s income.
As we showed in our analysis of Figure 3.2, this amount is $115,000. How does this
compare with what the person can have next year if he takes the investment? By taking
the investment we saw that he would be at point B where he has $20,000 left this year
and would have $100,000 next year. By lending the $20,000 that is left this year and
adding the proceeds of this loan to the $100,000, we find the line through B intercepts
the y-axis at:
($20,000  1.1)  $100,000  $122,000
The difference between this amount and $115,000 is
$122,000  $115,000  $7,000
which is the answer to the question of how much we would need to give the person next
year to make him as well off as he is with the investment.
58
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
65
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
There is a simple relationship between these two numbers. If we multiply $6,364 by 1.1
we get $7,000! Consider why this must be so. The $6,364 is the amount of extra cash we
must give the person this year to substitute for having the investment. In a financial market
with a 10-percent rate of interest, however, $1 this year is worth exactly the same as $1.10
next year. Thus, $6,364 this year is the same as $6,364  1.1 next year. In other words, the
person does not care whether he has the investment, $6,364, this year or $6,364  1.1 next
year. But we already showed that the investor is equally willing to have the investment and
to have $7,000 next year. This must mean that
$6,364  1.1  $7,000
You can also verify this relationship between these two variables by using Figure 3.9.
Because the lines through A and B each have the same slope of 1.1, the difference of
$7,000 between where they intersect on the x-axis must be in the ratio of 1.1 to 1.
Now we can show you how to evaluate the investment opportunity on a stand-alone ba-
sis. Here are the relevant facts: The individual must give up $30,000 this year to get $40,000
next year. These cash flows are illustrated in Figure 3.10.
The investment rule that follows from the previous analysis is the net present value
(NPV) rule. Here we convert all consumption values to the present and add them up:
Net present value  $30,000  $40,000  (1/1.1)
 $30,000  $36,364
 $6,364
The future amount, $40,000, is called the future value (FV).
The net present value of an investment is a simple criterion for deciding whether or not to
undertake an investment. NPV answers the question of how much cash an investor would need
to have today as a substitute for making the investment. If the net present value is positive, the
investment is worth taking on because doing so is essentially the same as receiving a cash pay-
ment equal to the net present value. If the net present value is negative, taking on the invest-
ment today is equivalent to giving up some cash today, and the investment should be rejected.
We use the term net present value to emphasize that we are already including the cur-
rent cost of the investment in determining its value and not simply what it will return. For
example, if the interest rate is 10 percent and an investment of $30,000 today will produce a
total cash return of $40,000 in one year’s time, the present value of the $40,000 by itself is
$40,000/1.1  $36,364
but the net present value of the investment is $36,364 minus the original investment:
Net present value  $36,364  $30,000  $6,364
The present value of a future cash flow is the value of that cash flow after considering the
appropriate market interest rate. The net present value of an investment is the present value
of the investment’s future cash flows, minus the initial cost of the investment. We have just
decided that our investment is a good opportunity. It has a positive net present value because
it is worth more than it costs.
Chapter 3
Financial Markets and Net Present Value: First Principles of Finance (Advanced)
59
0
1
– $30,000
$40,000
Cash inflows
Time
Cash outflows
I FIGURE 3.10 Cash Flows for the Investment Project 

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
66
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
In general, the above can be stated in terms of the net present value rule:
An investment is worth making if it has a positive NPV. If an investment’s NPV is negative, it
should be rejected.
• Give the definitions of net present value, future value, and present value.
• What information does a person need to compute an investment’s net present value?
3.7 CORPORATE INVESTMENT DECISION MAKING
Up to now, everything we have done has been from the perspective of the individual in-
vestor. How do corporations and firms make investment decisions? Aren’t their decisions
governed by a much more complicated set of rules and principles than the simple NPV rule
that we have developed for individuals?
We return to questions of corporate decision making and corporate governance later in
the book, but it is remarkable how well our central ideas and the NPV rule hold up even
when applied to corporations.
Suppose that firms are just ways in which many investors can pool their resources to
make large-scale business decisions. Suppose, for example, that you own 1 percent of some
firm. Now suppose that this firm is considering whether or not to undertake some invest-
ment. If that investment passes the NPV rule, that is, if it has a positive NPV, then 1 percent
of that NPV belongs to you. If the firm takes on this investment, the value of the whole firm
will rise by the NPV and your investment in the firm will rise by 1 percent of the NPV of
the investment. Similarly, the other shareholders in the firm will profit by having the firm
take on the positive NPV project because the value of their shares in the firm will also in-
crease. This means that the shareholders in the firm will be unanimous in wanting the firm
to increase its value by taking on the positive NPV project. If you follow this line of rea-
soning, you will also be able to see why the shareholders would oppose the firm taking on
any projects with a negative NPV because this would lower the value of their shares.
One difference between the firm and the individual is that the firm has no consumption
endowment. In terms of our one-period consumption diagram, the firm starts at the origin.
Figure 3.11 illustrates the situation of a firm with investment opportunity B. B is an invest-
ment that has a future value of $33,000 and will cost $25,000 now. If the interest rate is 10
percent, the NPV of B can be determined using the NPV rule. This is marked as point C in
Figure 3.11. The cash flows of this investment are depicted in Figure 3.12.
Net present value 
$25,000  [$33,000  (1/1.1)]  $5,000
One common objection to this line of reasoning is that people differ in their tastes and
that they would not necessarily agree to take on or reject investments by the NPV rule. For in-
stance, suppose that you and we each own some shares in a company. Further suppose that we
are older than you and might be anxious to spend our money. Being younger, you might be
more patient than we are and more willing to wait for a good long-term investment to pay off.
Because of the financial markets we all agree that the company should take on invest-
ments with positive NPVs and reject those with negative NPVs. If there were no financial
markets, then, being impatient, we might want the company to do little or no investing so
that we could have as much money as possible to consume now, and, being patient, you
might prefer the company to make some investments. With financial markets, we are both
satisfied by having the company follow the NPV rule.
60
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
67
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Suppose that the company takes on a positive NPV investment. Let us assume that this
investment has a net payoff of $1 million next year. That means that the value of the com-
pany will increase by $1 million next year and, consequently, if you own 1 percent of the
company’s shares, the value of your shares will increase by 1 percent of $1 million, or
$10,000, next year. Because you are patient, you might be prepared to wait for your $10,000
until next year. Being impatient, we do not want to wait, and with financial markets, we do
not need to wait. We can simply borrow against the extra $10,000 we will have tomorrow
and use the loan to consume more today.
In fact, if there is also a market for the firm’s shares, we do not even need to borrow.
After the company takes on a positive NPV investment, our shares in the company increase
in value today. This is because owning the shares today entitles investors to their portion of
the extra $1 million the company will have next year. This means that the shares would rise
in value today by the present value of $1 million. Because you want to delay your con-
sumption, you could wait until next year and sell your shares then to have extra consump-
tion next year. Being impatient, we might sell our shares now and use the money to con-
sume more today. If we owned 1 percent of the company’s shares, we could sell our shares
for an extra amount equal to the present value of $10,000.
Chapter 3
Financial Markets and Net Present Value: First Principles of Finance (Advanced)
61
$–25,000
0
C
NPV = $5,000
Consumption this year
B
Consumption
next year
(future value)
$33,000
Slope = – 1.1
I FIGURE 3.11 Consumption Choices, the NPV Rule,
and the Corporation
0
1
– $25,000
$33,000
Cash inflows
Time
Cash outflows
I FIGURE 3.12 Corporate Investment Cash Flows

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
68
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
In reality, shareholders in big companies do not vote on every investment decision, and
the managers of big companies must have rules that they follow. We have seen that all share-
holders in a company will be better off—no matter what their levels of patience or impa-
tience—if these managers follow the NPV rule. This is a marvelous result because it makes
it possible for many different owners to delegate decision-making powers to the managers.
They need only tell the managers to follow the NPV rule, and if the managers do so, they
will be doing exactly what the stockholders want them to do. Sometimes this form of the
NPV rule is stated as having the managers maximize the value of the company. As we ar-
gued, the current value of the shares of the company will increase by the NPV of any in-
vestments that the company undertakes. This means that the managers of the company can
make the shareholders as well off as possible by taking on all positive NPV projects and re-
jecting projects with negative NPVs.
Separating investment decision making from the owners is a basic requirement of the mod-
ern large firm. The separation theorem in financial markets says that all investors will want to
accept or reject the same investment projects by using the NPV rule, regardless of their per-
sonal preferences. Investors can delegate the operations of the firm and require that managers
use the NPV rule. Of course, much remains for us to discuss about this topic. For example, what
insurance do stockholders have that managers will actually do what is best for them?
We discussed this possibility in Chapter 1, and we take up this interesting topic later in
the book. For now, though, we no longer will consider our perspective to be that of the lone
investor. Instead, thanks to the separation theorem, we will use the NPV rule for companies
as well as for investors. Our justification of the NPV rule depends on the conditions neces-
sary to derive the separation theorem. These conditions are the ones that result in competi-
tive financial markets. The analysis we have presented has been restricted to risk-free cash
flows in one time period. However, the separation theorem also can be derived for risky cash
flows that extend beyond one period.
For the reader interested in studying further about the separation theorem, we include sev-
eral suggested readings at the end of this chapter that build on the material we have presented.
• In terms of the net present value rule, what is the essential difference between the indi-
vidual and the corporation?
3.8 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Finance is a subject that builds understanding from the ground up. Whenever you come up
against a new problem or issue in finance, you can always return to the basic principles of this
chapter for guidance.
1. Financial markets exist because people want to adjust their consumption over time. They do
this by borrowing and lending.
2. Financial markets provide the key test for investment decision making. Whether a particular
investment decision should or should not be taken depends only on this test: If there is a
superior alternative in the financial markets, the investment should be rejected; if not, the
62
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
69
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
investment is worth taking. The most important thing about this principle is that the investor
need not use his preferences to decide whether the investment should be taken. Regardless of
the individual’s preference for consumption this year versus the next, regardless of how
patient or impatient the individual is, making the proper investment decision depends only on
comparing it with the alternatives in the financial markets.
3. The net present value of an investment helps us make the comparison between the investment
and the financial market. If the NPV is positive, our rule tells us to undertake the investment.
This illustrates the second major feature of the financial markets and investment. Not only
does the NPV rule tell us which investments to accept and which to reject, the financial
markets also provide us with the tools for actually acquiring the funds to make the
investments. In short, we use the financial markets to decide both what to do and how to do it.
4. The NPV rule can be applied to corporations as well as to individuals. The separation
theorem developed in this chapter conveys that all of the owners of the firm would agree that
the firm should use the NPV rule even though each might differ in personal tastes for
consumption and savings.
In the next chapter we learn more about the NPV rule by using it to examine a wide array of
problems in finance.
KEY TERMS
Equilibrium rate of interest
48
Perfectly competitive financial market
51
Financial intermediaries
47
Separation theorems
56
Net present value rule
60
SUGGESTED READINGS
Two books that have good discussions of the consumption and savings decisions of individuals
and the beginnings of financial markets are:
Fama, E. F., and M. H. Miller. The Theory of Finance. New York: Holt, Rinehart & Winston,
1971: Chapter 1.
Hirshleifer, J. Investment, Interest and Capital. Upper Saddle River, N.J.: Prentice Hall, 1970:
Chapter 1.
The seminal work on the net present value rule is:
Fisher, I. G. The Theory of Interest. New York: Augustus M. Kelly, 1965. (This is a reprint of the
1930 edition.)
A rigorous treatment of the net present value rule along the lines of Irving Fisher can be found in:
Hirshleifer, J. “On the Theory of Optimal Investment Decision.” Journal of Political Economy
66 (August 1958).
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Making Consumption Choices
3.1 Currently, Jim Morris makes $100,000. Next year his income will be $120,000. Jim is a big
spender and he wants to consume $150,000 this year. The equilibrium interest rate is 10 percent.
What will be Jim’s consumption potential next year if he consumes $150,000 this year?
3.2 Rich Pettit is a miser. His current income is $50,000; next year he will earn $40,000. He
plans to consume only $20,000 this year. The current interest rate is 12 percent. What will
Rich’s consumption potential be next year?
The Competitive Finance Market
3.3 What is the basic reason that financial markets develop?
Chapter 3
Financial Markets and Net Present Value: First Principles of Finance (Advanced)
63

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
70
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Illustrating the Investment Decision
3.4 The following figure depicts the financial situation of Ms. J. Fawn. In period 0 her labor
income and current consumption is $40; later, in period 1, her labor income and
consumption will be $22. She has an opportunity to make the investment represented by
point D. By borrowing and lending, she will be able to reach any point along the line FDE.
a. What is the market rate of interest? (Hint: The new market interest rate line EF is parallel
to AH.)
b. What is the NPV of point D?
c. If Ms. Fawn wishes to consume the same quantity in each period, how much should she
consume in period 0?
3.5 Harry Hernandez has $60,000 this year. He faces the investment opportunities represented
by point B in the following figure. He wants to consume $20,000 this year and $67,500 next
year. This pattern of consumption is represented by point F.
a. What is the market interest rate?
b. How much must Harry invest in financial assets and productive assets today if he follows
an optimum strategy?
c. What is the NPV of his investment in nonfinancial assets?
Consumption
next year
Consumption this year
D
$90,000
$30,000
F
B
A
C
$20,000
$60,000
$80,000
$67,500
$56,250
– (1 + r )
H
F
Period 1 ($)
Period 0 ($)
75
22
60
40
D
C
B
E
– (1 + r )
A
64
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
3. Financial Markets and 
Net Present Value: First 
Principles of Finance 
(Adv.)
71
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
3.6 Suppose that the person in the land-investment example in the text wants to consume
$60,000 this year.
a. Detail a plan of investment and borrowing or lending that would permit her to consume
$60,000 if the land investment is worth $75,000 next year.
b. Detail a plan of investment and borrowing or lending that would permit her to consume
$60,000 if the land investment is worth $80,000 next year.
c. In which of these cases should she invest in the land?
d. In each of these cases, how much will she be able to consume next year?
Corporate Investment Decision Making
3.7 a. Briefly explain why from the shareholders’ perspective it is desirable for corporations to
maximize NPV.
b. What assumptions are necessary for this argument to be correct?
3.8 Consider a one-year world with perfect capital markets in which the interest rate is 10
percent. Suppose a firm has $12 million in cash. The firm invests $7 million today, and $5
million is paid to shareholders. The NPV of the firm’s investment is $3 million. All
shareholders are identical.
a. How much cash will the firm receive next year from its investment?
b. Suppose shareholders plan to spend $10 million today.
(i) How can they do this?
(ii) How much money will they have available to spend next year if they follow your plan?
3.9 To answer this question, refer to the following figure.
The Badvest Corporation is an all-equity firm with BD in cash on hand. It has an investment
opportunity at point C, and it plans to invest AD in real assets today. Thus, the firm will need to
raise AB by a new issue of equity.
a. What is the present value of the investment?
b. What is the rate of return on the old equity? Measure this rate of return from before the
investment plans are announced to afterwards.
c. What is the rate of return on the new equity?
New issue
of security
Dollars this year
F
Dollars
next year
C
A
B
E
D
Cash on
hand
Investment
Chapter 3
Financial Markets and Net Present Value: First Principles of Finance (Advanced)
65

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
72
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Net Present Value
CHAPTER 4
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
W
e now examine one of the most important concepts in all of corporate finance, the
relationship between $1 today and $1 in the future. Consider the following exam-
ple: A firm is contemplating investing $1 million in a project that is expected to pay
out $200,000 per year for nine years. Should the firm accept the project? One might say yes at
first glance, since total inflows of $1.8 million ( $200,000  9) are greater than $1 million
outflow. However, the $1 million is paid out immediately, whereas the $200,000 per year will
be received in the future. Also, the immediate payment is known with certainty, whereas the
later inflows can only be estimated. Thus, we need to know the relationship between a dollar
today and a (possibly uncertain) dollar in the future before deciding on the project.
This relationship is called the time-value-of-money concept. It is important in such ar-
eas as capital budgeting, lease versus buy decisions, accounts receivable analysis, financ-
ing arrangements, mergers, and pension funding.
The basics are presented in this chapter. We begin by discussing two fundamental con-
cepts, future value and present value. Next, we treat simplifying formulas such as perpetu-
ities and annuities.
4.1 THE ONE-PERIOD CASE
EXAMPLE
Don Simkowitz is trying to sell a piece of raw land in Alaska. Yesterday, he was of-
fered $10,000 for the property. He was about ready to accept the offer when another
individual offered him $11,424. However, the second offer was to be paid a year
from now. Don has satisfied himself that both buyers are honest and financially sol-
vent, so he has no fear that the offer he selects will fall through. These two offers
are pictured as cash flows in Figure 4.1. Which offer should Mr. Simkowitz choose?
Mike Tuttle, Don’s financial advisor, points out that if Don takes the first of-
fer, he could invest the $10,000 in the bank at an insured rate of 12 percent. At the
end of one year, he would have
$10,000  (0.12  $10,000)  $10,000  1.12  $11,200
Return of
Interest
principal
Because this is less than the $11,424 Don could receive from the second offer, Mr.
Tuttle recommends that he take the latter. This analysis uses the concept of future
value or compound value, which is the value of a sum after investing over one or
more periods. The compound or future value of $10,000 is $11,200.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
73
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
67
An alternative method employs the concept of present value. One can determine pres-
ent value by asking the following question: How much money must Don put in the bank to-
day so that he will have $11,424 next year? We can write this algebraically as
PV  1.12  $11,424
(4.1)
We want to solve for present value (PV), the amount of money that yields $11,424 if in-
vested at 12 percent today. Solving for PV, we have
PV 
 $10,200
The formula for PV can be written as
Present Value of Investment:
PV 
where C1 is cash flow at date 1 and r is the appropriate interest rate. r is the rate of return that
Don Simkowitz requires on his land sale. It is sometimes referred to as the discount rate.
Present value analysis tells us that a payment of $11,424 to be received next year has
a present value of $10,200 today. In other words, at a 12-percent interest rate, Mr.
Simkowitz could not care less whether you gave him $10,200 today or $11,424 next year.
If you gave him $10,200 today, he could put it in the bank and receive $11,424 next year.
Because the second offer has a present value of $10,200, whereas the first offer is for
only $10,000, present value analysis also indicates that Mr. Simkowitz should take the sec-
ond offer. In other words, both future value analysis and present value analysis lead to the
same decision. As it turns out, present value analysis and future value analysis must always
lead to the same decision.
As simple as this example is, it contains the basic principles that we will be working
with over the next few chapters. We now use another example to develop the concept of net
present value.
EXAMPLE
Louisa Dice, a financial analyst at Kaufman & Broad, a leading real estate firm, is
thinking about recommending that Kaufman & Broad invest in a piece of land that
costs $85,000. She is certain that next year the land will be worth $91,000, a sure
$6,000 gain. Given that the guaranteed interest rate in the bank is 10 percent,
should Kaufman & Broad undertake the investment in land? Ms. Dice’s choice is
described in Figure 4.2 with the cash flow time chart.
A moment’s thought should be all it takes to convince her that this is not an
attractive business deal. By investing $85,000 in the land, she will have $91,000
available next year. Suppose, instead, that Kaufman & Broad puts the same
C1
1  r
$11,424
1.12
0
1
$10,000
$11,424
Alternative
sale prices
Year:
I FIGURE 4.1 Cash Flow for Mr. Simkowitz’s Sale

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
74
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
$85,000 into the bank. At the interest rate of 10 percent, this $85,000 would
grow to
(1  0.10)  $85,000  $93,500
next year.
It would be foolish to buy the land when investing the same $85,000 in the fi-
nancial market would produce an extra $2,500 (that is, $93,500 from the bank mi-
nus $91,000 from the land investment). This is a future-value calculation.
Alternatively, she could calculate the present value of the sale price next year as
Present value 
 $82,727.27
Because the present value of next year’s sales price is less than this year’s purchase
price of $85,000, present-value analysis also indicates that she should not recom-
mend purchasing the property.
Frequently, businesspeople want to determine the exact cost or benefit of a decision.
The decision to buy this year and sell next year can be evaluated as
Net Present Value of Investment:
$2,273  $85,000

(4.2)
Cost of land
Present value of
today
next year’s sales price
The formula for NPV can be written as
NPV 
Cost

PV
Equation (4.2) says that the value of the investment is $2,273, after stating all the bene-
fits and all the costs as of date 0. We say that $2,273 is the net present value (NPV) of
the investment. That is, NPV is the present value of future cash flows minus the present
value of the cost of the investment. Because the net present value is negative, Louisa Dice
should not recommend purchasing the land.
Both the Simkowitz and the Dice examples deal with perfect certainty. That is, Don
Simkowitz knows with perfect certainty that he could sell his land for $11,424 next year.
Similarly, Louisa Dice knows with perfect certainty that Kaufman & Broad could receive
$91,000 for selling its land. Unfortunately, businesspeople frequently do not know future
cash flows. This uncertainty is treated in the next example.
$91,000
1.10
$91,000
1.10
68
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
0
1
– $85,000
$91,000
Cash inflow
Time
Cash outflow
I FIGURE 4.2 Cash Flows for Land Investment

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
75
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
Professional Artworks, Inc., is a firm that speculates in modern paintings. The
manager is thinking of buying an original Picasso for $400,000 with the intention
of selling it at the end of one year. The manager expects that the painting will be
worth $480,000 in one year. The relevant cash flows are depicted in Figure 4.3.
Of course, this is only an expectation—the painting could be worth more or
less than $480,000. Suppose the guaranteed interest rate granted by banks is 10
percent. Should the firm purchase the piece of art?
Our first thought might be to discount at the interest rate, yielding
 $436,364
Because $436,364 is greater than $400,000, it looks at first glance as if the paint-
ing should be purchased. However, 10 percent is the return one can earn on a risk-
less investment. Because the painting is quite risky, a higher discount rate is called
for. The manager chooses a rate of 25 percent to reflect this risk. In other words,
he argues that a 25-percent expected return is fair compensation for an investment
as risky as this painting.
The present value of the painting becomes
 $384,000
Thus, the manager believes that the painting is currently overpriced at $400,000
and does not make the purchase.
The preceding analysis is typical of decision making in today’s corporations, though
real-world examples are, of course, much more complex. Unfortunately, any example with
risk poses a problem not faced by a riskless example. In an example with riskless cash
flows, the appropriate interest rate can be determined by simply checking with a few
banks.1 The selection of the discount rate for a risky investment is quite a difficult task. We
simply don’t know at this point whether the discount rate on the painting should be 11 per-
cent, 25 percent, 52 percent, or some other percentage.
$480,000
1.25
$480,000
1.10
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
69
0
1
– $400,000
$480,000
Expected cash inflow
Time
Cash outflow
I FIGURE 4.3 Cash Flows for Investment in Painting
1In Chapter 9, we discuss estimation of the riskless rate in more detail.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
76
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Because the choice of a discount rate is so difficult, we merely wanted to broach the
subject here. The rest of the chapter will revert to examples under perfect certainty. We must
wait until the specific material on risk and return is covered in later chapters before a risk-
adjusted analysis can be presented.
• Define future value and present value.
• How does one use net present value when making an investment decision?
4.2 THE MULTIPERIOD CASE
The previous section presented the calculation of future value and present value for one pe-
riod only. We will now perform the calculations for the multiperiod case.
Future Value and Compounding
Suppose an individual were to make a loan of $1. At the end of the first year, the borrower
would owe the lender the principal amount of $1 plus the interest on the loan at the interest
rate of r. For the specific case where the interest rate is, say, 9 percent, the borrower owes
the lender
$1  (1  r)  $1  1.09  $1.09
At the end of the year, though, the lender has two choices. She can either take the $1.09—
or, more generally, (1  r)—out of the capital market, or she can leave it in and lend it again
for a second year. The process of leaving the money in the capital market and lending it for
another year is called compounding.
Suppose that the lender decides to compound her loan for another year. She does this
by taking the proceeds from her first one-year loan, $1.09, and lending this amount for the
next year. At the end of next year, then, the borrower will owe her
$1  (1  r)  (1  r)  $1  (1  r)2  1  2r  r2
$1  (1.09)  (1.09)  $1  (1.09)2  $1  $0.18  0.0081  $1.1881
This is the total she will receive two years from now by compounding the loan.
In other words, the capital market enables the investor, by providing a ready opportu-
nity for lending, to transform $1 today into $1.1881 at the end of two years. At the end of
three years, the cash will be $1  (1.09)3  $1.2950.
The most important point to notice is that the total amount that the lender receives is
not just the $1 that she lent out plus two years’ worth of interest on $1:
2  r  2  $0.09  $0.18
The lender also gets back an amount r2, which is the interest in the second year on the in-
terest that was earned in the first year. The term, 2  r, represents simple interest over the
two years, and the term, r2, is referred to as the interest on interest. In our example this lat-
ter amount is exactly
r2  ($0.09)2  $0.0081
When cash is invested at compound interest, each interest payment is reinvested. With sim-
ple interest, the interest is not reinvested. Benjamin Franklin’s statement, “Money makes
money and the money that money makes makes more money,” is a colorful way of explaining
compound interest. The difference between compound interest and simple interest is illustrated
70
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
77
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
in Figure 4.4. In this example the difference does not amount to much because the loan is for
$1. If the loan were for $1 million, the lender would receive $1,188,100 in two years’time. Of
this amount, $8,100 is interest on interest. The lesson is that those small numbers beyond the
decimal point can add up to big dollar amounts when the transactions are for big amounts. In
addition, the longer-lasting the loan, the more important interest on interest becomes.
The general formula for an investment over many periods can be written as
Future Value of an Investment:
FV  C0  (1  r)T
where C0 is the cash to be invested at date 0, r is the interest rate, and T is the number of
periods over which the cash is invested.
EXAMPLE
Suh-Pyng Ku has put $500 in a savings account at the First National Bank of Kent.
The account earns 7 percent, compounded annually. How much will Ms. Ku have
at the end of three years?
$500  1.07  1.07  1.07  $500  (1.07)3  $612.52
Figure 4.5 illustrates the growth of Ms. Ku’s account.
EXAMPLE
Jay Ritter invested $1,000 in the stock of the SDH Company. The company pays
a current dividend of $2, which is expected to grow by 20 percent per year for the
next two years. What will the dividend of the SDH Company be after two years?
$2  (1.20)2  $2.88
Figure 4.6 illustrates the increasing value of SDH’s dividends.
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
71
$1.295
$1.270
$1.188
$1.180
$1.09
$1
1 year
2 years
3 years
I FIGURE 4.4 Simple and Compound Interest
The dark-shaded area indicates the difference between
compound and simple interest. The difference is substantial
over a period of many years or decades.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
78
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The two previous examples can be calculated in any one of three ways. The computa-
tions could be done by hand, by calculator, or with the help of a table. The appropriate table
is Table A.3, which appears in the back of the text. This table presents Future values of $1
at the end of t periods. The table is used by locating the appropriate interest rate on the hor-
izontal and the appropriate number of periods on the vertical.
For example, Suh-Pyng Ku would look at the following portion of Table A.3:
She could calculate the future value of her $500 as
$500

1.2250

$612.50
Initial
Future value
investment
of $1
In the example concerning Suh-Pyng Ku, we gave you both the initial investment and the
interest rate and then asked you to calculate the future value. Alternatively, the interest rate
could have been unknown, as shown in the following example.
Interest rate
Period
6%
7%
8%
1
1.0600
1.0700
1.0800
2
1.1236
1.1449
1.1664
3
1.1910
1.2250
1.2597
4
1.2625
1.3108
1.3605
72
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
0
1
2
3
$612.52
$500
Dollars
Time
0
1
2
3
$612.52
–$500
Time
I FIGURE 4.5 Suh-Pyng Ku’s Savings Account
0
1
2
$2.00
Dollars
Time
0
1
2
$2.88
Time
$2.40
$2.88
$2.40
$2.00
Cash inflows
I FIGURE 4.6 The Growth of the SDH Dividends

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
79
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
Carl Voigt, who recently won $10,000 in the lottery, wants to buy a car in five
years. Carl estimates that the car will cost $16,105 at that time. His cash flows are
displayed in Figure 4.7.
What interest rate must he earn to be able to afford the car?
The ratio of purchase price to initial cash is
 1.6105
Thus, he must earn an interest rate that allows $1 to become $1.6105 in five years.
Table A.3 tells us that an interest rate of 10 percent will allow him to purchase the car.
One can express the problem algebraically as
$10,000  (1  r)5  $16,105
where r is the interest rate needed to purchase the car. Because $16,105/$10,000 
1.6105, we have
(1  r)5  1.6105
Either the table or any sophisticated hand calculator solves2 for r.
The Power of Compounding: A Digression
Most people who have had any experience with compounding are impressed with its power
over long periods of time. Take the stock market, for example. Ibbotson and Sinquefield
have calculated what the stock market returned as a whole from 1926 through 1999.3 They
find that one dollar placed in these stocks at the beginning of 1926 would have been worth
$2,845.63 at the end of 1999. This is 11.35 percent compounded annually for 74 years, i.e.,
(1.1135)74  $2,845.63. (Note: We are rounding 11.346 to 11.35.)
The example illustrates the great difference between compound and simple interest. At
11.35 percent, simple interest on $1 is 11.35 cents a year. Simple interest over 74 years is
$8.40 (74  $0.1135). That is, an individual withdrawing 11.35 cents every year would
have withdrawn $8.40 (74  $0.1135) over 74 years. This is quite a bit below the $2,845.63
that was obtained by reinvestment of all principal and interest.
$16,105
$10,000
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
73
0
5
– $16,105
Cash inflow
Time
Cash outflow
$10,000
I FIGURE 4.7 Cash Flows for Purchase of Carl Voigt’s Car
2Conceptually, we are taking the fifth roots of both sides of the equation. That is,
r 
5
 1
3Stocks, Bonds, Bills and Inflation [SBBI]. 1999 Yearbook. Ibbotson Associates, Chicago, 2000.
1.6105

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
80
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The results are more impressive over even longer periods of time. A person with no ex-
perience in compounding might think that the value of $1 at the end of 148 years would be
twice the value of $1 at the end of 74 years, if the yearly rate of return stayed the same.
Actually the value of $1 at the end of 148 years would be the square of the value of $1 at
the end of 74 years. That is, if the annual rate of return remained the same, a $1 investment
in common stocks should be worth $8,097,610.1[$1  (2845.63  2845.63)].
A few years ago an archaeologist unearthed a relic stating that Julius Caesar lent the
Roman equivalent of one penny to someone. Since there was no record of the penny ever be-
ing repaid, the archaeologist wondered what the interest and principal would be if a descen-
dant of Caesar tried to collect from a descendant of the borrower in the 20th century. The ar-
chaeologist felt that a rate of 6 percent might be appropriate. To his surprise, the principal
and interest due after more than 2,000 years was far greater than the entire wealth on earth.
The power of compounding can explain why the parents of well-to-do families fre-
quently bequeath wealth to their grandchildren rather than to their children. That is, they
skip a generation. The parents would rather make the grandchildren very rich than make the
children moderately rich. We have found that in these families the grandchildren have a
more positive view of the power of compounding than do the children.
EXAMPLE
Some people have said that it was the best real estate deal in history. Peter Minuit,
director–general of New Netherlands, the Dutch West India Company’s Colony in
North America, in 1626 allegedly bought Manhattan Island for 60 guilders worth of
trinkets from native Americans. By 1667 the Dutch were forced to exchange it for
Suriname with the British (perhaps the worst real estate deal ever). This sounds cheap
but did the Dutch really get the better end of the deal? It is reported that 60 guilders
was worth about $24 at the prevailing exchange rate. If the native Americans had sold
the trinkets at a fair market value and invested the $24 at 5 percent (tax free), it would
now, 375 years later, be worth more than $2.0 billion. Today, Manhattan is un-
doubtedly worth more than $2 billion, and so at a 5 percent rate of return, the native
Americans got the worst of the deal. However, if invested at 10 percent, the amount
of money they received would be worth about
$24 (1  r)T  1.1375  $72 quadrillion
This is a lot of money. In fact, $72 quadrillion is more than all the real estate in the
world is worth today. No one in the history of the world has ever been able to find
an investment yielding 10% every year for 375 years.
Present Value and Discounting
We now know that an annual interest rate of 9 percent enables the investor to transform $1
today into $1.1881 two years from now. In addition, we would like to know:
How much would an investor need to lend today so that she could receive $1 two years
from today?
Algebraically, we can write this as
PV  (1.09)2  $1
In the preceding equation, PV stands for present value, the amount of money we must lend
today in order to receive $1 in two years’ time.
74
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
81
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Solving for PV in this equation, we have
PV 
 $0.84
This process of calculating the present value of a future cash flow is called discounting. It
is the opposite of compounding. The difference between compounding and discounting is
illustrated in Figure 4.8.
To be certain that $0.84 is in fact the present value of $1 to be received in two years, we must
check whether or not, if we loaned out $0.84 and rolled over the loan for two years, we would
get exactly $1 back. If this were the case, the capital markets would be saying that $1 received in
two years’time is equivalent to having $0.84 today. Checking the exact numbers, we get
$0.84168  1.09  1.09  $1
In other words, when we have capital markets with a sure interest rate of 9 percent, we are
indifferent between receiving $0.84 today or $1 in two years. We have no reason to treat these
two choices differently from each other, because if we had $0.84 today and loaned it out for
two years, it would return $1 to us at the end of that time. The value 0.84 [1/(1.09)2] is called
the present value factor. It is the factor used to calculate the present value of a future cash flow.
In the multiperiod case, the formula for PV can be written as
Present Value of Investment
PV 
(4.3)
where CT is cash flow at date T and r is the appropriate interest rate.
EXAMPLE
Bernard Dumas will receive $10,000 three years from now. Bernard can earn 
8 percent on his investments, and so the appropriate discount rate is 8 percent.
What is the present value of his future cash flow?
CT
1  r T
$1
1.1881
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
75
Dollars
Future years
$1,000
10
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Compounding
at 9%
$2,367.36
Compound interest
Discounting at
9%
$422.41
$1,900
Simple interest
$1,000
I FIGURE 4.8 Compounding and Discounting
The top line shows the growth of $1,000 at compound interest with the funds
invested at 9 percent: $1,000  (1.09)10  $2,367.36. Simple interest is shown
on the next line. It is $1,000  [10  ($1,000  0.09)]  $1,900. The bottom
line shows the discounted value of $1,000 if the interest rate is 9 percent.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
82
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
PV  $10,000  
 $10,000  0.7938
 $7,938
Figure 4.9 illustrates the application of the present value factor to Bernard’s
investment.
When his investments grow at an 8 percent rate of interest, Bernard Dumas is
equally inclined toward receiving $7,938 now and receiving $10,000 in three
years’ time. After all, he could convert the $7,938 he receives today into $10,000
in three years by lending it at an interest rate of 8 percent.
Bernard Dumas could have reached his present value calculation in one of three
ways. The computation could have been done by hand, by calculator, or with the help
of Table A.1, which appears in the back of the text. This table presents present value
of $1 to be received after t periods. The table is used by locating the appropriate in-
terest rate on the horizontal and the appropriate number of periods on the vertical.
For example, Bernard Dumas would look at the following portion of Table A.1:
The appropriate present value factor is 0.7938.
In the preceding example, we gave both the interest rate and the future cash flow.
Alternatively, the interest rate could have been unknown.
EXAMPLE
A customer of the Chaffkin Corp. wants to buy a tugboat today. Rather than pay-
ing immediately, he will pay $50,000 in three years. It will cost the Chaffkin Corp.
$38,610 to build the tugboat immediately. The relevant cash flows to Chaffkin
Corp. are displayed in Figure 4.10. By charging what interest rate would the Chaf-
fkin Corp. neither gain nor lose on the sale?
Interest rate
Period
7%
8%
9%
1
0.9346
0.9259
0.9174
2
0.8734
0.8573
0.8417
3
0.8163
0.7938
0.7722
4
0.7629
0.7350
0.7084

1
1.083
76
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
0
1
2
$7,938
Dollars
Time
0
2
3
$10,000
$10,000
Cash inflows
1
3
Time
I FIGURE 4.9 Discounting Bernard Dumas’ Opportunity

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
83
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The ratio of construction cost to sale price is
 0.7722
We must determine the interest rate that allows $1 to be received in three years to have
a present value of $0.7722. Table A.1 tells us that 9 percent is that interest rate.4
Frequently, an investor or a business will receive more than one cash flow. The present
value of the set of cash flows is simply the sum of the present values of the individual cash
flows. This is illustrated in the following example.
EXAMPLE
Dennis Draper has won the Kentucky state lottery and will receive the following
set of cash flows over the next two years:
Mr. Draper can currently earn 6 percent in his passbook savings account, and so,
the appropriate discount rate is 6 percent. The present value of the cash flows is
Year
Cash Flow  Present Value Factor  Present Value
1
$2,000 
 0.943

$1,887
2
$5,000 
 0.890

$4,450
Total
$6,337
In other words, Mr. Draper is equally inclined toward receiving $6,337 today and
receiving $2,000 and $5,000 over the next two years.

1
1.06
2
1
1.06
Year
Cash Flow
1
$2,000
2
$5,000
$38,610
$50,000
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
77
0
– $38,610
$50,000
Cash inflows
Time
Cash outflows
3
I FIGURE 4.10 Cash Flows for Tugboat
4Algebraically, we are solving for r in the equation
 $38,610
or, equivalently,
 $0.7722
$1
1  r 3
$50,000
1  r 3

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
84
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
Finance.com has an opportunity to invest in a new high-speed computer that costs
$50,000. The computer will generate cash flows (from cost savings) of $25,000
one year from now, $20,000 two years from now, and $15,000 three years from
now. The computer will be worthless after three years, and no additional cash
flows will occur. Finance.com has determined that the appropriate discount rate is
7 percent for this investment. Should Finance.com make this investment in a new
high-speed computer? What is the present value of the investment?
The cash flows and present value factors of the proposed computer are as follows.
Cash Flows
Present Value Factor
Year 0
–$50,000
1
 1
1
$25,000
 0.9346
2
$20,000
 0.8734
3
$15,000
 0.8163
The present values of the cash flows are:
Cash flows  Present value factor  Present value
Year 0
–$50,000  1
 –$50,000
1
$25,000  0.9346 
$23,365
2
$20,000  0.8734 
$17,468
3
$15,000  0.8163 
$12,244.5
Total:
$ 3,077.5
Finance.com should invest in a new high-speed computer because the present
value of its future cash flows is greater than its cost. The NPV is $3,077.5.
The Algebraic Formula
To derive an algebraic formula for net present value of a cash flow, recall that the PV of re-
ceiving a cash flow one year from now is
PV  C1/(1  r)
and the PV of receiving a cash flow two years from now is
PV  C2/(1  r)2
We can write the NPV of a T-period project as
NPV  C0 
The initial flow, C0, is assumed to be negative because it represents an investment. The
 is shorthand for the sum of the series.
• What is the difference between simple interest and compound interest?
• What is the formula for the net present value of a project?
C1
1  r  
C2
1  r 2  ...  
CT
1  r T    C0  
T
i 1
Ci
1  r i

1
1.07
3

1
1.07
2
1
1.07
78
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
85
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
4.3 COMPOUNDING PERIODS
So far we have assumed that compounding and discounting occur yearly. Sometimes com-
pounding may occur more frequently than just once a year. For example, imagine that a bank
pays a 10-percent interest rate “compounded semiannually.” This means that a $1,000 deposit
in the bank would be worth $1,000  1.05  $1,050 after six months, and $1,050  1.05 
$1,102.50 at the end of the year.
The end-of-the-year wealth can be written as5
$1,000
 $1,000  (1.05)2  $1,102.50
Of course, a $1,000 deposit would be worth $1,100 ($1,000  1.10) with yearly com-
pounding. Note that the future value at the end of one year is greater with semiannual com-
pounding than with yearly compounding. With yearly compounding, the original $1,000 re-
mains the investment base for the full year. The original $1,000 is the investment base only
for the first six months with semiannual compounding. The base over the second six months
is $1,050. Hence, one gets interest on interest with semiannual compounding.
Because $1,000  1.1025  $1,102.50, 10 percent compounded semiannually is the
same as 10.25 percent compounded annually. In other words, a rational investor could not
care less whether she is quoted a rate of 10 percent compounded semiannually, or a rate of
10.25 percent compounded annually.
Quarterly compounding at 10 percent yields wealth at the end of one year of
$1,000
 $1,103.81
More generally, compounding an investment m times a year provides end-of-year
wealth of
(4.4)
where C0 is one’s initial investment and r is the stated annual interest rate. The stated an-
nual interest rate is the annual interest rate without consideration of compounding. Banks
and other financial institutions may use other names for the stated annual interest rate. An-
nual percentage rate is perhaps the most common synonym.
EXAMPLE
What is the end-of-year wealth if Jane Christine receives a stated annual interest
rate of 24 percent compounded monthly on a $1 investment?
Using (4.4), her wealth is
$1
 $1  (1.02)12
 $1.2682
1  0.24
12 
12
C01  r
m
m
1  0.10
4 
4
1  0.10
2 
2
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
79
5In addition to using a calculator, one can still use Table A.3 when the compounding period is less than a year.
Here, one sets the interest rate at 5 percent and the number of periods at two.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
86
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The annual rate of return is 26.82 percent. This annual rate of return is either called
the effective annual interest rate or the effective annual yield. Due to com-
pounding, the effective annual interest rate is greater than the stated annual interest
rate of 24 percent. Algebraically, we can rewrite the effective annual interest rate as
Effective Annual Interest Rate:
 1
(4.5)
Students are often bothered by the subtraction of 1 in (4.5). Note that end-of-year
wealth is composed of both the interest earned over the year and the original prin-
cipal. We remove the original principal by subtracting one in (4.5).
EXAMPLE
If the stated annual rate of interest, 8 percent, is compounded quarterly, what is the
effective annual rate of interest?
Using (4.5), we have
 1  0.0824  8.24%
Referring back to our original example where C0  $1,000 and r  10%, we
can generate the following table:
Effective Annual
Interest Rate 
C0
Compounding Frequency (m)
C1
$1,000
Yearly (m  1)
$1,100.00
0.10
1,000
Semiannually (m  2)
1,102.50
0.1025
1,000
Quarterly (m  4)
1,103.81
0.10381
1,000
Daily (m  365)
1,105.16
0.10516
Distinction between Stated Annual Interest Rate 
and Effective Annual Interest Rate
The distinction between the stated annual interest rate (SAIR) and the effective annual in-
terest rate (EAIR) is frequently quite troubling to students. One can reduce the confusion
by noting that the SAIR becomes meaningful only if the compounding interval is given. For
example, for an SAIR of 10 percent, the future value at the end of one year with semian-
nual compounding is [1  (.10/2)]2  1.1025. The future value with quarterly compound-
ing is [1  (.10/4)]4  1.1038. If the SAIR is 10 percent but no compounding interval is
given, one cannot calculate future value. In other words, one does not know whether to
compound semiannually, quarterly, or over some other interval.
By contrast, the EAIR is meaningful without a compounding interval. For example, an
EAIR of 10.25 percent means that a $1 investment will be worth $1.1025 in one year. One
can think of this as an SAIR of 10 percent with semiannual compounding or an SAIR of
10.25 percent with annual compounding, or some other possibility.
1  r
m
m
  1
1  r
m
m
 1  1  0.08
4 
4
1  r
m
m
80
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
87
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Compounding over Many Years
Formula (4.4) applies for an investment over one year. For an investment over one or more
(T) years, the formula becomes
Future Value with Compounding:
FV 
(4.6)
EXAMPLE
Harry DeAngelo is investing $5,000 at a stated annual interest rate of 12 percent per
year, compounded quarterly, for five years. What is his wealth at the end of five years?
Using formula (4.6), his wealth is
$5,000 
 $5,000  (1.03)20  $5,000  1.8061  $9,030.50
Continuous Compounding (Advanced)
The previous discussion shows that one can compound much more frequently than once a
year. One could compound semiannually, quarterly, monthly, daily, hourly, each minute, or
even more often. The limiting case would be to compound every infinitesimal instant,
which is commonly called continuous compounding. Surprisingly, banks and other fi-
nancial institutions frequently quote continuously compounded rates, which is why we
study them.
Though the idea of compounding this rapidly may boggle the mind, a simple formula
is involved. With continuous compounding, the value at the end of T years is expressed as
C0  erT
(4.7)
where C0 is the initial investment, r is the stated annual interest rate, and T is the number of
years over which the investment runs. The number e is a constant and is approximately
equal to 2.718. It is not an unknown like C0, r, and T.
EXAMPLE
Linda DeFond invested $1,000 at a continuously compounded rate of 10 percent
for one year. What is the value of her wealth at the end of one year?
From formula (4.7) we have
$1,000  e0.10  $1,000  1.1052  $1,105.20
This number can easily be read from our Table A.5. One merely sets r, the value
on the horizontal dimension, to 10% and T, the value on the vertical dimension, to
1. For this problem, the relevant portion of the table is
Continuously compounded rate (r)
Period
(T)
9%
10%
11%
1
1.0942
1.1052
1.1163
2
1.1972
1.2214
1.2461
3
1.3100
1.3499
1.3910
1  0.12
4 
45
C01  r
m
mT
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
81

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
88
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Note that a continuously compounded rate of 10 percent is equivalent to an
annually compounded rate of 10.52 percent. In other words, Linda DeFond could
not care less whether her bank quoted a continuously compounded rate of 10 per-
cent or a 10.52-percent rate, compounded annually.
EXAMPLE
Linda DeFond’s brother, Mark, invested $1,000 at a continuously compounded
rate of 10 percent for two years.
The appropriate formula here is
$1,000  e0.102  $1,000  e0.20 $1,221.40
Using the portion of the table of continuously compounded rates reproduced
above, we find the value to be 1.2214.
Figure 4.11 illustrates the relationship among annual, semiannual, and continuous
compounding. Semiannual compounding gives rise to both a smoother curve and a higher
ending value than does annual compounding. Continuous compounding has both the
smoothest curve and the highest ending value of all.
EXAMPLE
The Michigan state lottery is going to pay you $1,000 at the end of four years. If
the annual continuously compounded rate of interest is 8 percent, what is the pres-
ent value of this payment?
$1,000 
 $1,000 
 $726.16
• What is a stated annual interest rate?
• What is an effective annual interest rate?
• What is the relationship between the stated annual interest rate and the effective annual
interest rate?
• Define continuous compounding.
1
1.3771
1
e0.084
82
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
0
1
5
1
Dollars
2
3
2
3
4
4
Interest
earned
Years
Annual compounding
0
1
5
1
Dollars
2
3
2
3
4
4
Interest
earned
Years
Semiannual compounding
0
1
5
1
Dollars
2
3
2
3
4
4
Interest
earned
Years
Continuous compounding
I FIGURE 4.11 Annual, Semiannual, and Continuous Compounding
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
89
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
4.4 SIMPLIFICATIONS
The first part of this chapter has examined the concepts of future value and present value.
Although these concepts allow one to answer a host of problems concerning the time value
of money, the human effort involved can frequently be excessive. For example, consider a
bank calculating the present value on a 20-year monthly mortgage. Because this mortgage
has 240 (20  12) payments, a lot of time is needed to perform a conceptually simple task.
Because many basic finance problems are potentially so time-consuming, we search
out simplifications in this section. We provide simplifying formulas for four classes of cash
flow streams:
• Perpetuity
• Growing perpetuity
• Annuity
• Growing annuity
Perpetuity
A perpetuity is a constant stream of cash flows without end. If you are thinking that per-
petuities have no relevance to reality, it will surprise you that there is a well-known case of
an unending cash flow stream: the British bonds called consols. An investor purchasing a
consol is entitled to receive yearly interest from the British government forever.
How can the price of a consol be determined? Consider a consol that pays a coupon of
C dollars each year and will do so forever. Simply applying the PV formula gives us
PV 
 . . .
where the dots at the end of the formula stand for the infinite string of terms that continues
the formula. Series like the preceding one are called geometric series. It is well known that
even though they have an infinite number of terms, the whole series has a finite sum be-
cause each term is only a fraction of the preceding term. Before turning to our calculus
books, though, it is worth going back to our original principles to see if a bit of financial in-
tuition can help us find the PV.
The present value of the consol is the present value of all of its future coupons. In other
words, it is an amount of money that, if an investor had it today, would enable him to achieve
the same pattern of expenditures that the consol and its coupons would. Suppose that an in-
vestor wanted to spend exactly C dollars each year. If he had the consol, he could do this.
How much money must he have today to spend the same amount? Clearly he would need
exactly enough so that the interest on the money would be C dollars per year. If he had any
more, he could spend more than C dollars each year. If he had any less, he would eventu-
ally run out of money spending C dollars per year.
The amount that will give the investor C dollars each year, and therefore the present
value of the consol, is simply
PV 
(4.8)
To confirm that this is the right answer, notice that if we lend the amount C/r, the interest it
earns each year will be
Interest 
 r  C
C
r
C
r
C
1  r  
C
1  r 2  
C
1  r 3
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
83

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
90
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
which is exactly the consol payment.6 To sum up, we have shown that for a consol
Formula for Present Value of Perpetuity:
PV 
 . . .

It is comforting to know how easily we can use a bit of financial intuition to solve this math-
ematical problem.
EXAMPLE
Consider a perpetuity paying $100 a year. If the relevant interest rate is 8 percent,
what is the value of the consol?
Using formula (4.8), we have
PV 
 $1,250
Now suppose that interest rates fall to 6 percent. Using (4.8), the value of the per-
petuity is
PV 
 $1,666.67
Note that the value of the perpetuity rises with a drop in the interest rate. Con-
versely, the value of the perpetuity falls with a rise in the interest rate.
Growing Perpetuity
Imagine an apartment building where cash flows to the landlord after expenses will be
$100,000 next year. These cash flows are expected to rise at 5 percent per year. If one as-
sumes that this rise will continue indefinitely, the cash flow stream is termed a growing
perpetuity. The relevant interest rate is 11 percent. Therefore, the appropriate discount rate
is 11 percent and the present value of the cash flows can be represented as
PV 
 . . . 
 . . .
$100,0001.05 N1
1.11 N
$100,000
1.11
  $100,0001.05
1.11 2
  $100,0001.05 2
1.11 3
$100
0.06
$100
0.08
C
r
C
1  r  
C
1  r 2  
C
1  r 3
84
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
6We can prove this by looking at the PV equation:
PV  C/(1  r)  C/(1  r)2  . . .
Let C/(1  r)  a and 1/(1  r)  x. We now have
PV  a(1  x  x2  . . .)
(1)
Next we can multiply by x:
xPV  ax  ax2  . . .
(2)
Subtracting (2) from (1) gives
PV(1  x)  a
Now we substitute for a and x and rearrange:
PV  C/r

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
91
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Algebraically, we can write the formula as
PV 
 . . . 
 . . . (4.9)
where C is the cash flow to be received one period hence, g is the rate of growth per period,
expressed as a percentage, and r is the appropriate discount rate.
Fortunately, formula (4.9) reduces to the following simplification:7
Formula for Present Value of Growing Perpetuity:
PV 
(4.10)
From formula (4.10), the present value of the cash flows from the apartment building is
 $1,666,667
There are three important points concerning the growing perpetuity formula:
1. The Numerator. The numerator in (4.10) is the cash flow one period hence, not at
date 0. Consider the following example:
EXAMPLE
Rothstein Corporation is just about to pay a dividend of $3.00 per share. Investors
anticipate that the annual dividend will rise by 6 percent a year forever. The ap-
plicable interest rate is 11 percent. What is the price of the stock today?
The numerator in formula (4.10) is the cash flow to be received next period.
Since the growth rate is 6 percent, the dividend next year is $3.18 ($3.00  1.06).
The price of the stock today is
$66.60 
$3.00

Imminent
Present value of all
dividend
dividends beginning
a year from now
The price of $66.60 includes both the dividend to be received immediately and the
present value of all dividends beginning a year from now. Formula (4.10) only
makes it possible to calculate the present value of all dividends beginning a year
from now. Be sure you understand this example; test questions on this subject al-
ways seem to trip up a few of our students.
$3.18
0.11  0.06
$100,000
0.11  0.05
C
r   g
C  1  g N1
1  r N
C
1   r   C   1   g
1   r 2
   C   1   g 2
1   r 3
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
85
7PV is the sum of an infinite geometric series:
PV  a(1  x  x2  . . .)
where a  C/(1  r) and x  (1  g)/(1  r). Previously we showed that the sum of an infinite geometric series
is a/(1  x). Using this result and substituting for a and x, we find
PV  C/(r  g)
Note that this geometric series converges to a finite sum only when x is less than 1. This implies that the growth
rate, g, must be less than the interest rate, r.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
92
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
2. The Interest Rate and the Growth Rate. The interest rate r must be greater than the
growth rate g for the growing perpetuity formula to work. Consider the case in which the
growth rate approaches the interest rate in magnitude. Then the denominator in the grow-
ing perpetuity formula gets infinitesimally small and the present value grows infinitely
large. The present value is in fact undefined when r is less than g.
3. The Timing Assumption. Cash generally flows into and out of real-world firms both
randomly and nearly continuously. However, formula (4.10) assumes that cash flows are re-
ceived and disbursed at regular and discrete points in time. In the example of the apartment,
we assumed that the net cash flows of $100,000 only occurred once a year. In reality, rent
checks are commonly received every month. Payments for maintenance and other expenses
may occur anytime within the year.
The growing perpetuity formula of (4.10) can be applied only by assuming a regular
and discrete pattern of cash flow. Although this assumption is sensible because the formula
saves so much time, the user should never forget that it is an assumption. This point will be
mentioned again in the chapters ahead.
A few words should be said about terminology. Authors of financial textbooks gener-
ally use one of two conventions to refer to time. A minority of financial writers treat cash
flows as being received on exact dates, for example date 0, date 1, and so forth. Under this
convention, date 0 represents the present time. However, because a year is an interval, not
a specific moment in time, the great majority of authors refer to cash flows that occur at the
end of a year (or alternatively, the end of a period). Under this end-of-the-year convention,
the end of year 0 is the present, the end of year 1 occurs one period hence, and so on. (The
beginning of year 0 has already passed and is not generally referred to.)8
The interchangeability of the two conventions can be seen from the following chart:
Date 0
Date 1
Date 2
Date 3
. . .
 Now
End of year 0
End of year 1
End of year 2
End of year 3
. . .
 Now
We strongly believe that the dates convention reduces ambiguity. However, we use both
conventions because you are likely to see the end-of-year convention in later courses. In
fact, both conventions may appear in the same example for the sake of practice.
Annuity
An annuity is a level stream of regular payments that lasts for a fixed number of periods.
Not surprisingly, annuities are among the most common kinds of financial instruments. The
pensions that people receive when they retire are often in the form of an annuity. Leases and
mortgages are also often annuities.
To figure out the present value of an annuity we need to evaluate the following equation:
 . . . 
The present value of only receiving the coupons for T periods must be less than the present
value of a consol, but how much less? To answer this we have to look at consols a bit more
closely.
C
1  r T
C
1  r  
C
1  r 2  
C
1  r 3
86
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
8Sometimes financial writers merely speak of a cash flow in year x. Although this terminology is ambiguous,
such writers generally mean the end of year x.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
93
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Consider the following time chart:
Now
Date (or end of year)
0
1
2
3
T
(T  1) (T  2)
Consol 1
C
C
C . . .
C
C
C . . .
Consol 2
C
C . . .
Annuity
C
C
C . . .
C
Consol 1 is a normal consol with its first payment at date 1. The first payment of consol 2
occurs at date T  1.
The present value of having a cash flow of C at each of T dates is equal to the present value
of consol 1 minus the present value of consol 2. The present value of consol 1 is given by
PV 
(4.11)
Consol 2 is just a consol with its first payment at date T  1. From the perpetuity formula,
this consol will be worth C/r at date T.9 However, we do not want the value at date T. We
want the value now; in other words, the present value at date 0. We must discount C/r back
by T periods. Therefore, the present value of consol 2 is
PV 
(4.12)
The present value of having cash flows for T years is the present value of a consol with its first
payment at date 1 minus the present value of a consol with its first payment at date T  1. Thus,
the present value of an annuity is formula (4.11) minus formula (4.12). This can be written as
This simplifies to
Formula for Present Value of Annuity:10, 11
PV  C
(4.13)
EXAMPLE
Mark Young has just won the state lottery, paying $50,000 a year for 20 years. He
is to receive his first payment a year from now. The state advertises this as the Mil-
lion Dollar Lottery because $1,000,000  $50,000  20. If the interest rate is 8
percent, what is the true value of the lottery?

1
r  
1
r1  r T	
C
r    C
r
1
1  r T	
C
r
1
1  r T	
C
r
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
87
9Students frequently think that C/r is the present value at date T  1 because the consol’s first payment is at
date T  1. However, the formula values the annuity as of one period prior to the first payment.
10This can also be written as
C[1  1/(1  r)T]/r
11We can also provide a formula for the future value of an annuity.
FV  C
1  r T
r
  1
r	

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
94
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Formula (4.13) yields
Present value of
Million Dollar Lottery  $50,000 
Periodic payment
Annuity factor
 $50,000

9.8181
 $490,905
Rather than being overjoyed at winning, Mr. Young sues the state for misrepre-
sentation and fraud. His legal brief states that he was promised $1 million but re-
ceived only $490,905.12
The term we use to compute the value of the stream of level payments, C, for T years
is called an annuity factor. The annuity factor in the current example is 9.8181. Because
the annuity factor is used so often in PV calculations, we have included it in Table A.2 in
the back of this book. The table gives the values of these factors for a range of interest rates,
r, and maturity dates, T.
The annuity factor as expressed in the brackets of (4.13) is a complex formula. For sim-
plification, we may from time to time refer to the annuity factor as
(4.14)
That is, expression (4.14) stands for the present value of $1 a year for T years at an interest
rate of r.
Our experience is that annuity formulas are not hard, but tricky, for the beginning stu-
dent. We present four tricks below.
Trick 1: A Delayed Annuity
One of the tricks in working with annuities or perpetuities
is getting the timing exactly right. This is particularly true when an annuity or perpetuity
begins at a date many periods in the future. We have found that even the brightest begin-
ning student can make errors here. Consider the following example.
EXAMPLE
Danielle Caravello will receive a four-year annuity of $500 per year, beginning at
date 6. If the interest rate is 10 percent, what is the present value of her annuity?
This situation can be graphed as:
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
$500
$500
$500
$500
AT
r

1
0.08  
1
0.081.08 20	
88
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
12To solve this problem on a common type HP19B II financial calculator, you should do the following:
a. Press “FIN” and “TVM.”
b. Enter the payment 50,000 and press “PMT.”
c. Enter the interest rate 8 and press “I % YR.”
d. Enter the number of periods 20 and press “N.”
e. Finally, press “PV” to solve.
Notice your answer is $490,907.370372. The calculator uses 11 digits for the annuity factor and the answer,
whereas the example uses only 4 digits in the annuity factor and rounds the final answer to the nearest dollar.
That is why the answer in the text example differs from the one using the calculator. In practice, the answer
using the calculator is the best because it is more precise.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
95
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The analysis involves two steps:
1. Calculate the present value of the annuity using (4.13). This is
Present Value of Annuity at Date 5:
$500
 $500 
 $500  3.1699
 $1,584.95
Note that $1,584.95 represents the present value at date 5.
Students frequently think that $1,584.95 is the present value at date 6, because
the annuity begins at date 6. However, our formula values the annuity as of one pe-
riod prior to the first payment. This can be seen in the most typical case where the
first payment occurs at date 1. The formula values the annuity as of date 0 here.
2. Discount the present value of the annuity back to date 0. That is 
Present Value at Date 0:
 $984.13
Again, it is worthwhile mentioning that, because the annuity formula brings
Danielle’s annuity back to date 5, the second calculation must discount over the
remaining 5 periods. The two-step procedure is graphed in Figure 4.12.
Trick 2: Annuity in Advance
The annuity formula of (4.13) assumes that the first annu-
ity payment begins a full period hence. This type of annuity is frequently called an annuity
in arrears. What happens if the annuity begins today, in other words, at date 0?
EXAMPLE
In a previous example, Mark Young received $50,000 a year for 20 years from the
state lottery. In that example, he was to receive the first payment a year from the
winning date. Let us now assume that the first payment occurs immediately. The
total number of payments remains 20.
Under this new assumption, we have a 19-date annuity with the first payment
occurring at date 1—plus an extra payment at date 0. The present value is
$50,000

$50,000 
Payment at date 0
19-year annuity
 $50,000  ($50,000  9.6036)
 $530,180
A 19
0.08
$1,584.95
1.10 5
A4
0.10

1
0.10  
1
0.101.10 4	
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
89
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Date
Cash flow
$984.13
$1,584.95
$500
$500
$500
$500
I FIGURE 4.12 Discounting Danielle Caravello’s Annuity
Step one: Discount the four payments back to date 5 by using the annuity formula.
Step two: Discount the present value at date 5 ($1,584.95) back to present value at date 0.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
96
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
$530,180, the present value in this example, is greater than $490,905, the present
value in the earlier lottery example. This is to be expected because the annuity of
the current example begins earlier. An annuity with an immediate initial payment
is called an annuity in advance. Always remember that formula (4.13), as well as
Table A.2, in this book refers to an annuity in arrears.
Trick 3: The Infrequent Annuity
The following example treats an annuity with pay-
ments occurring less frequently than once a year.
EXAMPLE
Ms. Ann Chen receives an annuity of $450, payable once every two years. The an-
nuity stretches out over 20 years. The first payment occurs at date 2, that is, two
years from today. The annual interest rate is 6 percent.
The trick is to determine the interest rate over a two-year period. The interest
rate over two years is
(1.06  1.06)  1  12.36%
That is, $100 invested over two years will yield $112.36.
What we want is the present value of a $450 annuity over 10 periods, with an
interest rate of 12.36 percent per period. This is 
$450
$2,505.57
Trick 4: Equating Present Value of Two Annuities
The following example equates the
present value of inflows with the present value of outflows.
EXAMPLE
Harold and Helen Nash are saving for the college education of their newborn
daughter, Susan. The Nashes estimate that college expenses will run $30,000 per
year when their daughter reaches college in 18 years. The annual interest rate over
the next few decades will be 14 percent. How much money must they deposit in
the bank each year so that their daughter will be completely supported through
four years of college?
To simplify the calculations, we assume that Susan is born today. Her parents
will make the first of her four annual tuition payments on her 18th birthday. They
will make equal bank deposits on each of her first 17 birthdays, but no deposit at
date 0. This is illustrated as
Date
0
1
2
17
18
19
20
21
Susan’s
Parents’ Parents’
. . .
Parents’
Tuition
Tuition
Tuition
Tuition
birth
1st
2nd
17th and
payment
payment
payment
payment
deposit
deposit
last
1
2
3
4
deposit

1
0.1236 
1
0.1236  1.1236 10 	  $450  A 10
0.1236 
90
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
97
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Mr. and Ms. Nash will be making deposits to the bank over the next 
17 years. They will be withdrawing $30,000 per year over the following four
years. We can be sure they will be able to withdraw fully $30,000 per year if
the present value of the deposits is equal to the present value of the four
$30,000 withdrawals.
This calculation requires three steps. The first two determine the present value
of the withdrawals. The final step determines yearly deposits that will have a pres-
ent value equal to that of the withdrawals.
1. We calculate the present value of the four years at college using the annu-
ity formula.
$30,000 
 $30,000 
 $30,000  2.9137  $87,411
We assume that Susan enters college on her 18th birthday. Given our discussion in
Trick 1 $87,411 represents the present value at date 17.
2. We calculate the present value of the college education at date 0 as
 $9,422.91
3. Assuming that Helen and Harold Nash make deposits to the bank at the
end of each of the 17 years, we calculate the annual deposit that will yield a pres-
ent value of all deposits of $9,422.91. This is calculated as
C 
 $9,422.91
Because 
 6.3729,
 $1,478.59
Thus, deposits of $1,478.59 made at the end of each of the first 17 years and in-
vested at 14 percent will provide enough money to make tuition payments of
$30,000 over the following four years.
An alternative method would be to (1) calculate the present value of the tuition pay-
ments at Susan’s 18th birthday and (2) calculate annual deposits such that the future
value of the deposits at her 18th birthday equals the present value of the tuition payments
at that date. Although this technique can also provide the right answer, we have found
that it is more likely to lead to errors. Therefore, we only equate present values in our
presentation.
Growing Annuity
Cash flows in business are very likely to grow over time, due either to real growth or to in-
flation. The growing perpetuity, which assumes an infinite number of cash flows, provides
one formula to handle this growth. We now consider a growing annuity, which is a finite
C  $9,422.91
6.3729
A 17
0.14
A 17
0.14
$87,411
1.14 17
A 4
0.14

1
0.14 
1
0.14  1.14 4	
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
91

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
98
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
number of growing cash flows. Because perpetuities of any kind are rare, a formula for a
growing annuity would be useful indeed. The formula is13
Formula for Present Value of Growing Annuity:
PV  C
(4.15)
where, as before, C is the payment to occur at the end of the first period, r is the interest
rate, g is the rate of growth per period, expressed as a percentage, and T is the number of
periods for the annuity.
EXAMPLE
Stuart Gabriel, a second-year MBA student, has just been offered a job at $80,000
a year. He anticipates his salary increasing by 9 percent a year until his retirement
in 40 years. Given an interest rate of 20 percent, what is the present value of his
lifetime salary?
We simplify by assuming he will be paid his $80,000 salary exactly one year
from now, and that his salary will continue to be paid in annual installments. The
appropriate discount rate is 20 percent. From (4.15), the calculation is
Present value
of Stuart’s  $80,000 
 $711,731
lifetime salary
Though the growing annuity is quite useful, it is more tedious than the other simpli-
fying formulas. Whereas most sophisticated calculators have special programs for
perpetuity, growing perpetuity, and annuity, there is no special program for growing
annuity. Hence, one must calculate all the terms in formula (4.15) directly.
EXAMPLE
In a previous example, Harold and Helen Nash planned to make 17 identical pay-
ments in order to fund the college education of their daughter, Susan. Alterna-
tively, imagine that they planned to increase their payments at 4 percent per year.
What would their first payment be?

1
0.20  0.09 
1
0.20  0.09
1.09
1.20
40	

1
r  g 
1
r  g 
1  g
1  r
T	
92
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
13This can be proved as follows. A growing annuity can be viewed as the difference between two growing
perpetuities. Consider a growing perpetuity A, where the first payment of C occurs at date 1. Next, consider
growing perpetuity B, where the first payment of C(1  g)T is made at date T  1. Both perpetuities grow at rate g.
The growing annuity over T periods is the difference between annuity A and annuity B. This can be represented as:
Date
0
1
2
3
. . .
T
T  1
T  2
T  3
Perpetuity A
C
C  (1  g)
C  (1  g)2
. . . C  (1  g)T1
C  (1  g)T
C  (1  g)T1
C  (1  g)T2 . . .
Perpetuity B
C  (1  g)T
C  (1  g)T1
C  (1  g)T2 . . .
Annuity
C
C  (1  g)
C  (1  g)2
. . . C  (1  g)T1
The value of perpetuity A is
The value of perpetuity B is
The difference between the two perpetuities is given by (4.15).
C  1  g T
r  g

1
1  r T
C
r  g

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
99
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The first two steps of the previous Nash family example showed that the pres-
ent value of the college costs was $9,422.91. These two steps would be the same
here. However, the third step must be altered. Now we must ask, How much should
their first payment be so that, if payments increase by 4 percent per year, the pres-
ent value of all payments will be $9,422.91?
We set the growing-annuity formula equal to $9,422.91 and solve for C.

 $9,422.91
Here, C  $1,192.78. Thus, the deposit on their daughter’s first birthday is
$1,192.78, the deposit on the second birthday is $1,240.49 (1.04  $1,192.78),
and so on.
• What are the formulas for perpetuity, growing perpetuity, annuity, and growing annuity?
• What are three important points concerning the growing-perpetuity formula?
• What are four tricks concerning annuities?
CASE STUDY:
Making the Decision to Convert Lottery Prize Winnings:
The Case of the Singer Asset Finance Company
I
n 1987, Rosalind Setchfield won more than $1.3 million in the Arizona state lottery.The winnings
were to be paid in 20 yearly installments of $65,276.79. Six years later, in 1995, Mrs. Setchfield re-
ceived a phone call from a salesman for the Singer Asset Finance Company of West Palm Beach,
Florida.The Singer company offered to give her $140,000 immediately for one-half of the next nine
lottery checks (i.e., $140,000 now for $32,638.39  9  $293,745.51 over nine years). Singer is a
prize broker with many employees whose main job is to track down million-dollar-lottery prize-
winners like Mrs. Setchfield. Singer knows that many people are eager to trade all or part of their
promised winnings for a discounted lump sum immediately. Singer is part of a growing $700 million
prize-broker business. Singer and Woodbridge Sterling Capital currently account for about 80 per-
cent of the market for lottery prize conversions. Prize brokers like Singer resell their rights to 
receive future payouts (called structured payouts) to institutional investors such as SunAmerica,Inc.,
or the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co. In the case of Mrs. Setchfield, the investor was the
Enhance Financial Service Group, a New York municipal bond reinsurer. Singer had arranged to sell
its stake in Mrs. Setchfield’s lottery prize to Enhance for $196,000 and would make a quick $56,000
profit if she accepted the offer. Mrs. Setchfield accepted Singer’s offer and the deal was made.
How was Singer able to structure a deal that resulted in a $56,000 profit? The answer is that in-
dividuals and institutions have different intertemporal consumption preferences.Mrs.Setchfield’s fam-
ily had experienced some financial difficulties and was in need of some immediate cash.She didn’t want
to wait nine years for her prize winnings. On the other hand, the Enhance Group had some excess
cash and was very willing to make a $196,000 investment in order to receive the rights to obtain half
of Mrs.Setchfield’s prize winnings,or $32,638.39 a year for nine years.The discount rate the Enhance
Group applied to the future payouts was about 8.96 percent (i.e., the discount rate that equates the
present value of $196,000 with Singer’s right to receive their equal payments of $32,638.39).
The discount rate that Mrs.Setchfield used was 18.1 percent,reflecting her aversion to deferred
cash flows.
Source:Vanessa Williams,“How Major Players Turn Lottery Jackpots into Guaranteed Bet,” The Wall Street
Journal, September 23, 1997.
C
1
0.14  0.04 
1
0.14  0.04
1.04
1.14
17	
C
1
r  g 
1
r  g 
1  g
1  r
T	
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
93
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
100
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
4.5 WHAT IS A FIRM WORTH?
Suppose you are in the business of trying to determine the value of small companies. (You
are a business appraiser.) How can you determine what a firm is worth? One way to think
about the question of how much a firm is worth is to calculate the present value of its fu-
ture cash flows.
Let us consider the example of a firm that is expected to generate net cash flows (cash
inflows minus cash outflows) of $5,000 in the first year and $2,000 for each of the next five
years. The firm can be sold for $10,000 seven years from now. The owners of the firm would
like to be able to make 10 percent on their investment in the firm.
The value of the firm is found by multiplying the net cash flows by the appropriate
present-value factor. The value of the firm is simply the sum of the present values of the in-
dividual net cash flows.
The present value of the net cash flows is given next.
We can also use the simplifying formula for an annuity to give us
 $16,569.35
Suppose you have the opportunity to acquire the firm for $12,000. Should you acquire the
firm? The answer is yes because the NPV is positive.
NPV  PV  Cost
$4,569.35  $16,569.35  $12,000
The incremental value (NPV) of acquiring the firm is $4,569.35.
EXAMPLE
The Trojan Pizza Company is contemplating investing $1 million in four new out-
lets in Los Angeles. Andrew Lo, the firm’s Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has es-
timated that the investments will pay out cash flows of $200,000 per year for nine
years and nothing thereafter. (The cash flows will occur at the end of each year and
there will be no cash flow after year 9.) Mr. Lo has determined that the relevant
discount rate for this investment is 15 percent. This is the rate of return that the
firm can earn at comparable projects. Should the Trojan Pizza Company make the
investments in the new outlets?
$5,000
1.1
 2,000  A 5
0.10
1.1
 10,000
1.1 7
The Present Value of the Firm
Net
End of
Cash Flow
Present Value
Present Value
Year
of the Firm
Factor (10%)
of Net Cash Flows
1
$ 5,000
.90909
$ 4,545.45
2
2,000
.82645
1,652.90
3
2,000
.75131
1,502.62
4
2,000
.68301
1,366.02
5
2,000
.62092
1,241.84
6
2,000
.56447
1,128.94
7
10,000
.51315
5,131.58
Present value of firm
$16,569.35
94
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
101
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
95
The decision can be evaluated as:
NPV  $1,000,000 
 . . . 
 $1,000,000  $200,000 
 $1,000,000  $954,316.78
 $45,683.22
The present value of the four new outlets is only $954,316.78. The outlets are
worth less than they cost. The Trojan Pizza Company should not make the invest-
ment because the NPV is $45,683.22. If the Trojan Pizza Company requires a
15 percent rate of return, the new outlets are not a good investment.
4.6 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1. Two basic concepts, future value and present value, were introduced in the beginning of this
chapter. With a 10-percent interest rate, an investor with $1 today can generate a future value
of $1.10 in a year, $1.21 [$1  (1.10)2] in two years, and so on. Conversely, present-value
analysis places a current value on a later cash flow. With the same 10-percent interest rate, a
dollar to be received in one year has a present value of $0.909 ($1/1.10) in year 0. A dollar to
be received in two years has a present value of $0.826 [$1/(1.10)2].
2. One commonly expresses the interest rate as, say, 12 percent per year. However, one can
speak of the interest rate as 3 percent per quarter. Although the stated annual interest rate
remains 12 percent (3 percent  4), the effective annual interest rate is 12.55 percent
[(1.03)4  1]. In other words, the compounding process increases the future value of an
investment. The limiting case is continuous compounding, where funds are assumed to be
reinvested every infinitesimal instant.
3. A basic quantitative technique for financial decision making is net present value analysis. The
net present value formula for an investment that generates cash flows (Ci) in future periods is
NPV  C0 
 . . . 
The formula assumes that the cash flow at date 0 is the initial investment (a cash outflow).
4. Frequently, the actual calculation of present value is long and tedious. The computation of
the present value of a long-term mortgage with monthly payments is a good example of this.
We presented four simplifying formulas:
Perpetuity: PV 
Growing perpetuity: PV 
Annuity: PV  C
Growing annuity: PV  C
5. We stressed a few practical considerations in the application of these formulas:

1
r  g 
1
r  g 
1  g
1  r
T	

1
r 
1
r  1  r T	
C
r  g
C
r
CN
1  r N   C0  
N
i1
Ci
1  r i
C1
1  r 
C2
1  r 2
A 9
0.15
$200,000
1.15 9
$200,000
1.15
 $200,000
1.15 2

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
102
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
a. The numerator in each of the formulas, C, is the cash flow to be received one full period hence.
b. Cash flows are generally irregular in practice. To avoid unwieldy problems, assumptions
to create more regular cash flows are made both in this textbook and in the real world.
c. A number of present value problems involve annuities (or perpetuities) beginning a few
periods hence. Students should practice combining the annuity (or perpetuity) formula
with the discounting formula to solve these problems.
d. Annuities and perpetuities may have periods of every two or every n years, rather than
once a year. The annuity and perpetuity formulas can easily handle such circumstances.
e. One frequently encounters problems where the present value of one annuity must be
equated with the present value of another annuity.
KEY TERMS
Annuity
86
Effective annual yield
80
Annuity factor
88
Future value
66
Annual percentage rate
79
Growing annuity
91
Appropriate discount rate
75
Growing perpetuity
84
Compounding
70
Net present value
68
Compound interest
70
Perpetuity
83
Compound value
66
Present value
67
Continuous compounding
81
Present value factor
75
Discounting
75
Simple interest
70
Effective annual interest rate
80
Stated annual interest rate
79
SUGGESTED READINGS
To learn how to perform the mathematics of present value, we encourage you to see the
handbooks that come with the Hewlett-Packard HP 19BII calculator.
We also recommend:
White, M. Financial Analysis with a Calculator. 3rd ed. Burr Ridge, Ill.: Irwin/McGraw-Hill, 1998.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS14
Annual Compounding
4.1 Compute the future value of $1,000 compounded annually for
a. 10 years at 5 percent.
b. 10 years at 7 percent.
c. 20 years at 5 percent.
d. Why is the interest earned in part c not twice the amount earned in part a?
4.2 Calculate the present value of the following cash flows discounted at 10 percent.
a. $1,000 received seven years from today.
b. $2,000 received one year from today.
c. $500 received eight years from today.
4.3 Would you rather receive $1,000 today or $2,000 in 10 years if the discount rate is 8 percent?
96
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
14The following conventions are used in the questions and problems for this chapter.
If more frequent compounding than once a year is indicated, the problem will either state: (1) both a stated
annual interest rate and a compounding period, or (2) an effective annual interest rate.
If annual compounding is indicated, the problem will provide an annual interest rate. Since the stated annual
interest rate and the effective annual interest rate are the same here, we use the simpler annual interest rate.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
103
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
4.4 The government has issued a bond that will pay $1,000 in 25 years. The bond will pay
no interim coupon payments. What is the present value of the bond if the discount rate
is 10 percent?
4.5 A firm has an estimated pension liability of $1.5 million due 27 years from today. If the
firm can invest in a risk-free security that has a stated annual interest rate of 8 percent, how
much must the firm invest today to be able to make the $1.5 million payment?
4.6 You have won the Florida state lottery. Lottery officials offer you the choice of the
following alternative payouts:
Alternative 1: $10,000 one year from now.
Alternative 2: $20,000 five years from now.
Which alternative should you choose if the discount rate is:
a. 0 percent?
b. 10 percent?
c. 20 percent?
d. What discount rate makes the two alternatives equally attractive to you?
4.7 You are selling your house. The Smiths have offered you $115,000. They will pay you
immediately. The Joneses have offered you $150,000, but they cannot pay you until three
years from today. The interest rate is 10 percent. Which offer should you choose?
4.8 Suppose you bought a bond that will pay $1,000 in 20 years. No intermediate coupon
payments will be made. If the appropriate discount rate for the bond is 8 percent,
a. what is the current price of the bond?
b. what will the price be 10 years from today?
c. what will the price be 15 years from today?
4.9 Suppose you deposit $1,000 in an account at the end of each of the next four years. If the
account earns 12 percent, how much will be in the account at the end of seven years?
4.10 Ann Woodhouse is considering the purchase of a house. She expects that she will own the
house for 10 years and then sell it for $5 million. What is the most she would be willing to
pay for the house if the appropriate discount rate is 12 percent?
4.11 You have the opportunity to make an investment that costs $900,000. If you make this
investment now, you will receive $120,000 one year from today, $250,000 and $800,000
two and three years from today, respectively. The appropriate discount rate for this
investment is 12 percent.
a. Should you make the investment?
b. What is the net present value (NPV) of this opportunity?
c. If the discount rate is 11 percent, should you invest? Compute the NPV to support your
answer.
4.12 You have the opportunity to invest in a machine that will cost $340,000. The machine will
generate cash flows of $100,000 at the end of each year and require maintenance costs of
$10,000 at the beginning of each year. If the economic life of the machine is five years and
the relevant discount rate is 10 percent, should you buy the machine? What if the relevant
discount rate is 9 percent?
4.13 Today a firm signed a contract to sell a capital asset for $90,000. The firm will receive
payment five years from today. The asset costs $60,000 to produce.
a. If the appropriate discount rate is 10 percent, is the firm making a profit on this item?
b. At what appropriate discount rate will the firm break even?
4.14 Your aunt owns an auto dealership. She promised to give you $3,000 in trade-in value
for your car when you graduate one year from now, while your roommate offered you
$3,500 for the car now. The prevailing interest rate is 12 percent. If the future value of
benefit from owning the car for one year is expected to be $1,000, should you accept
your aunt’s offer?
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
97

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
104
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Compounding Periods
4.15 What is the future value three years hence of $1,000 invested in an account with a stated
annual interest rate of 8 percent,
a. compounded annually?
b. compounded semiannually?
c. compounded monthly?
d. compounded continuously?
e. Why does the future value increase as the compounding period shortens?
4.16 Compute the future value of $1,000 continuously compounded for
a. 5 years at a stated annual interest rate of 12 percent.
b. 3 years at a stated annual interest rate of 10 percent.
c. 10 years at a stated annual interest rate of 5 percent.
d. 8 years at a stated annual interest rate of 7 percent.
4.17 Calculate the present value of $5,000 in 12 years at a stated annual interest rate of 10
percent, compounded quarterly.
4.18 Bank America offers a stated annual interest rate of 4.1 percent, compounded quarterly,
while Bank USA offers a stated annual interest rate of 4.05 percent, compounded monthly.
In which bank should you deposit your money?
Perpetuities and Growing Perpetuities
4.19 The market interest rate is 15 percent. What is the price of a consol bond that pays
$120 annually?
4.20 A prestigious investment bank designed a new security that pays a quarterly dividend of
$10 permanently. What is the price of the security if the stated annual interest rate is 12
percent, compounded quarterly?
4.21 World Transportation, Inc., is expected to initiate its quarterly dividend of $1 five years
from today and the dividend is expected to remain constant permanently. What is the price
of World Transportation stock if the stated annual interest rate is 15 percent, compounded
quarterly?
4.22 Assuming an interest rate of 10 percent, calculate the present value of the following
streams of yearly payments:
a. $1,000 per year forever, with the first payment one year from today.
b. $500 per year forever, with the first payment two years from today.
c. $2,420 per year forever, with the first payment three years from today.
4.23 Given an interest rate of 10 percent per year, what is the value at date t  5 (i.e., the end of
year 5) of a perpetual stream of $120 annual payments starting at date t  9?
4.24 Harris, Inc., paid a $3 dividend yesterday. If the firm raises its dividend at 5 percent every
year and the appropriate discount rate is 12 percent, what is the price of Harris stock?
4.25 In its most recent corporate report, Williams, Inc., apologized to its stockholders for not
paying a dividend. The report states that management will pay a $1 dividend next year.
That dividend will grow at 4 percent every year thereafter. If the discount rate is 10
percent, how much are you willing to pay for a share of Williams, Inc.?
4.26 Mark Weinstein has been working on an advanced technology in laser eye surgery. The
technology is expected to be available to the medical industry two years from today and
will generate annual income of $200,000 growing at 5 percent perpetually. What is the
present value of the technology if the discount rate is 10 percent?
Annuities and Growing Annuities
4.27 IDEC Pharmaceuticals is considering a drug project that costs $100,000 today and is
expected to generate end-of-year annual cash flow of $50,000 forever. At what discount
rate would IDEC be indifferent between accepting or rejecting the project?
4.28 Should you buy an asset that will generate income of $1,200 per year for eight years? The
price of the asset is $6,200 and the annual interest rate is 10 percent.
98
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
105
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
99
4.29 What is the present value of end-of-year cash flows of $2,000 per year, with the first cash
flow received three years from today and the last one 22 years from today? Use a discount
rate of 8 percent.
4.30 What is the value of a 15-year annuity that pays $500 a year? The annuity’s first payment
is at the end of year 6 and the annual interest rate is 12 percent for years 1 through 5 and
15 percent thereafter.
4.31 You are offered the opportunity to buy a note for $12,800. The note is certain to pay
$2,000 at the end of each of the next 10 years. If you buy the note, what rate of interest
will you receive?
4.32 You need $25,000 five years from now. You budget to make equal payments at the end of
every year into an account that pays an annual interest rate of 7 percent.
a. What are your annual payments?
b. Your rich uncle died and left you $20,000. How much of it must you put into the same
account as a lump sum today to meet your goal?
4.33 Nancy Ferris bought a building for $120,000. She paid 15 percent down and agreed to pay
the balance in 20 equal annual installments. What are the equal installments if the annual
interest rate is 10 percent?
4.34 Jack Ferguson has signed a three-year contract to work for a computer software company.
He expects to receive a base salary of $5,000 a month and a bonus of $10,000 at year-end.
All payments are made at the end of periods. What is the present value of the contract if
the stated annual interest rate, compounded monthly, is 12 percent?
4.35 Peter Green bought a $15,000 Honda Civic with 20 percent down and financed the rest
with a four-year loan at 8 percent stated annual interest rate, compounded monthly. What
is his monthly payment if he starts the payment one month after the purchase?
4.36 You have recently won the super jackpot in the Illinois state lottery. On reading the fine
print, you discover that you have the following two options:
a. You receive $160,000 at the beginning of each year for 31 years. The income would be
taxed at a rate of 28 percent. Taxes are withheld when the checks are issued.
b. You receive $1,750,000 now, but you do not have access to the full amount
immediately. The $1,750,000 would be taxed at 28 percent. You are able to take
$446,000 of the after-tax amount now. The remaining $814,000 will be placed in a 30-
year annuity account that pays $101,055 on a before-tax basis at the end of each year.
Using a discount rate of 10 percent, which option should you select?
4.37 On September 1, 1998, Susan Chao bought a motorcycle for $10,000. She paid $1,000
down and financed the balance with a five-year loan at a stated annual interest rate of 9.6
percent, compounded monthly. She started the monthly payment exactly one month after
the purchase, i.e., October, 1998. In the middle of October, 2000, she got a new job and
decided to pay off the loan. If the bank charges her 1 percent prepayment penalty based on
the loan balance, how much should she pay the bank on November 1, 2000?
4.38 Assume that the cost of a college education will be $20,000 per year when your child
enters college 12 years from now. You currently have $10,000 to invest. What rate of
interest must your investment earn to pay the cost of a four-year college education for your
child? For simplicity, assume the entire cost of the college education must be paid when
your child enters college.
4.39 You are saving for the college education of your two children. They are two years apart in
age; one will begin college in 15 years, the other will begin in 17 years. You estimate your
children’s college expenses to be $21,000 per year per child. The annual interest rate is 15
percent. How much money must you deposit in an account each year to fund your
children’s education? You will begin payments one year from today. You will make your
last deposit when your oldest child enters college.
4.40 A well-known insurance company offers a policy known as the “Estate Creator Six Pay.”
Typically the policy is bought by a parent or grandparent for a child at the child’s birth.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
106
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The details of the policy are as follows: The purchaser (say, the parent) makes the
following six payments to the insurance company.
First birthday
$750
Fourth birthday
$800
Second birthday
$750
Fifth birthday
$800
Third birthday
$750
Sixth birthday
$800
No more payments are made after the child’s sixth birthday. When the child reaches age
65, he or she receives $250,000. If the relevant interest rate is 6 percent for the first six
years and 7 percent for all subsequent years, is the policy worth buying?
4.41 Your company is considering leasing a $120,000 piece of equipment for the next 10 years.
Your company can buy the equipment outright or lease it. The annual lease payments of
$15,000 are due at the beginning of each year. The lease includes an option for your company
to buy the equipment for $25,000 at the end of the leasing period (i.e., 10 years). Should your
company accept the lease offer if the appropriate discount rate is 8 percent a year?
4.42 You are saving for your retirement. You have decided that one year from today you will
deposit 2 percent of your annual salary in an account which will earn 8 percent per year.
Your salary last year was $50,000, and it will increase at 4 percent per year throughout your
career. How much money will you have for your retirement, which will begin in 40 years?
4.43 You must decide whether or not to purchase new capital equipment. The cost of the machine is
$5,000. It will produce the following cash flows. The appropriate discount rate is 10 percent.
Year
Cash Flow
1
$ 700
2
900
3
1,000
4
1,000
5
1,000
6
1,000
7
1,250
8
1,375
Should you purchase the equipment?
4.44 When Marilyn Monroe died, ex-husband Joe DiMaggio vowed to place fresh flowers on
her grave every Sunday as long as he lived. A bunch of fresh flowers that the former
baseball player thought appropriate for the star cost about $5 when she died in 1962.
Based on actuarial tables, “Joltin’ Joe” could expect to live for 30 years after the actress
died. Assume that the stated annual interest rate, compounded weekly, is 10.4 percent.
Also, assume that the rate of inflation is 3.9 percent per year, when expressed as a stated
annual inflation rate, compounded weekly. Assuming that each year has exactly 52 weeks,
what is the present value of this commitment?
4.45 Your younger brother has come to you for advice. He is about to enter college and has two
options open to him. His first option is to study engineering. If he does this, his
undergraduate degree would cost him $12,000 a year for four years. Having obtained this,
he would need to gain two years of practical experience: in the first year he would earn
$20,000, in the second year he would earn $25,000. He would then need to obtain his
master’s degree, which will cost $15,000 a year for two years. After that he will be fully
qualified and can earn $40,000 per year for 25 years.
His other alternative is to study accounting. If he does this, he would pay $13,000 a
year for four years and then he would earn $31,000 per year for 30 years.
The effort involved in the two careers is the same, so he is only interested in the
earnings the jobs provide. All earnings and costs are paid at the end of the year. What
advice would you give him if the market interest rate is 5 percent? A day later he comes
back and says he took your advice, but in fact, the market interest rate was 6 percent. Has
your brother made the right choice?
100
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
4. Net Present Value
107
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 4
Net Present Value
101
4.46 In January 1984, Richard “Goose” Gossage signed a contract to play for the San Diego
Padres that guaranteed him a minimum of $9,955,000. The guaranteed payments were
$875,000 for 1984, $650,000 for 1985, $800,000 in 1986, $1 million in 1987, $1 million
in 1988, and $300,000 in 1989. In addition, the contract called for $5,330,000 in deferred
money payable at the rate of $240,000 per year from 1990 through 2006 and then
$125,000 a year from 2007 through 2016. If the effective annual rate of interest is 9
percent and all payments are made on July 1 of each year, what would the present value of
these guaranteed payments be on January 1, 1984? Assume an interest rate of 4.4 percent
per six months. If he were to receive an equal annual salary at the end of each of the five
years from 1984 through 1988, what would his equivalent annual salary be? Ignore taxes
throughout this problem.
4.47 Ms. Adams has received a job offer from a large investment bank as an assistant to the vice
president. Her base salary will be $35,000. She will receive her first annual salary payment
one year from the day she begins to work. In addition, she will get an immediate $10,000
bonus for joining the company. Her salary will grow at 4 percent each year. Each year she
will receive a bonus equal to 10 percent of her salary. Ms. Adams is expected to work for
25 years. What is the present value of the offer if the discount rate is 12 percent?
4.48 Justin Leonard has just arranged to purchase a $400,000 vacation home in the Bahamas
with a 20% down payment. The mortgage has an 8% annual percentage rate (APR) and
calls for equal monthly payments over the next 30 years. His first payment will be due one
month from now. However, the mortgage has an 8-year balloon payment, meaning that the
loan must be paid off then. There were no other transaction costs or finance charges. How
big will Justin’s balloon payment be in 8 years?
4.49 You want to lease a set of golf clubs from Pings Ltd. for $4,000. The lease contract is in
the form of 24 months of equal payments at a 12% annual percentage rate (APR). Suppose
payments are due in the beginning of the month and your first payment is due
immediately. What will your monthly lease payment be?
4.50 A 10-year annuity pays $900 per year, with payments made at the end of each year. The
first $900 will be paid 5 years from now. If the APR is 8% and interest is compounded
quarterly, what is the present value of this annuity?
What Is a Firm Worth?
4.51 Southern California Publishing Company is trying to decide whether or not to revise its
popular textbook, Financial Psychoanalysis Made Simple. They have estimated that the
revision will cost $40,000. Cash flows from increased sales will be $10,000 the first year.
These cash flows will increase by 7 percent per year. The book will go out of print five
years from now. Assume the initial cost is paid now and all revenues are received at the
end of each year. If the company requires a 10 percent return for such an investment,
should it undertake the revision?
4.52 Ernie Els wants to save money to meet two objectives. First, he would like to be able to
retire 30 years from now with a retirement income of $300,000 per year for 20 years
beginning at the end of the 31 years from now. Second, he would like to purchase a cabin
in the mountains 10 years from now at an estimated cost of $350,000. He can afford to
save only $40,000 per year for the first 10 years. He expects to earn 7 percent per year
from investments. Assuming he saves the same amount each year, what must Ernie save
annually from years 11 to 30 to meet his objectives?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
108
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
How to Value Bonds 
and Stocks
CHAPTER 5
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
T
he previous chapter discussed the mathematics of compounding, discounting, and
present value. We also showed how to value a firm. We now use the mathematics of
compounding and discounting to determine the present values of financial obliga-
tions of the firm, beginning with a discussion of how bonds are valued. Since the future cash
flows of bonds are known, application of net-present-value techniques is fairly straightfor-
ward. The uncertainty of future cash flows makes the pricing of stocks according to NPV
more difficult.
5.1 DEFINITION AND EXAMPLE OF A BOND
A bond is a certificate showing that a borrower owes a specified sum. In order to repay the
money, the borrower has agreed to make interest and principal payments on designated
dates. For example, imagine that Kreuger Enterprises just issued 100,000 bonds for $1,000
each, where the bonds have a coupon rate of 5 percent and a maturity of two years. Interest
on the bonds is to be paid yearly. This means that:
1. $100 million (100,000  $1,000) has been borrowed by the firm.
2. The firm must pay interest of $5 million (5%  $100 million) at the end of one year.
3. The firm must pay both $5 million of interest and $100 million of principal at the end of
two years.
We now consider how to value a few different types of bonds.
5.2 HOW TO VALUE BONDS
Pure Discount Bonds
The pure discount bond is perhaps the simplest kind of bond. It promises a single payment,
say $1, at a fixed future date. If the payment is one year from now, it is called a one-year dis-
count bond; if it is two years from now, it is called a two-year discount bond, and so on. The
date when the issuer of the bond makes the last payment is called the maturity date of the
bond, or just its maturity for short. The bond is said to mature or expire on the date of its fi-
nal payment. The payment at maturity ($1 in this example) is termed the bond’s face value.
Pure discount bonds are often called zero-coupon bonds or zeros to emphasize the fact
that the holder receives no cash payments until maturity. We will use the terms zero, bullet,
and discount interchangeably to refer to bonds that pay no coupons.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
109
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
103
The first row of Figure 5.1 shows the pattern of cash flows from a four-year pure dis-
count bond. Note that the face value, F, is paid when the bond expires in the 48th month.
There are no payments of either interest or principal prior to this date.
In the previous chapter, we indicated that one discounts a future cash flow to determine
its present value. The present value of a pure discount bond can easily be determined by the
techniques of the previous chapter. For short, we sometimes speak of the value of a bond
instead of its present value.
Consider a pure discount bond that pays a face value of F in T years, where the interest
rate is r in each of the T years. (We also refer to this rate as the market interest rate.) Because
the face value is the only cash flow that the bond pays, the present value of this face amount is
Value of a Pure Discount Bond:
PV 
The present value formula can produce some surprising results. Suppose that the in-
terest rate is 10 percent. Consider a bond with a face value of $1 million that matures in 20
years. Applying the formula to this bond, its PV is given by
PV 
 $148,644
or only about 15 percent of the face value.
Level-Coupon Bonds
Many bonds, however, are not of the simple, pure discount variety. Typical bonds issued by
either governments or corporations offer cash payments not just at maturity, but also at reg-
ular times in between. For example, payments on U.S. government issues and American
corporate bonds are made every six months until the bond matures. These payments are
called the coupons of the bond. The middle row of Figure 5.1 illustrates the case of a four-
year, level-coupon bond: The coupon, C, is paid every six months and is the same through-
out the life of the bond.
Note that the face value of the bond, F, is paid at maturity (end of year 4). F is some-
times called the principal or the denomination. Bonds issued in the United States typically
have face values of $1,000, though this can vary with the type of bond.
$1 million
1.1 20
F
1  r T
6
Months
12
18
24
30
36
42
48
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Pure discount bonds
Coupon bonds
Consols
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C F + C
F
C
C
.  .  .
.  .  .
I FIGURE 5.1 Different Types of Bonds: C, Coupon Paid Every 
6 Months; F, Face Value at Year 4 (maturity for pure
discount and coupon bonds)

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
110
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
As we mentioned before, the value of a bond is simply the present value of its cash
flows. Therefore, the value of a level-coupon bond is merely the present value of its stream
of coupon payments plus the present value of its repayment of principal. Because a level-
coupon bond is just an annuity of C each period, together with a payment at maturity of
$1,000, the value of a level-coupon bond is
Value of a Level-Coupon Bond:
PV 
 . . . 
where C is the coupon and the face value, F, is $1,000. The value of the bond can be rewritten as
Value of a Level-Coupon Bond:
PV  C 
As mentioned in the previous chapter,
is the present value of an annuity of $1 per period
for T periods at an interest rate per period of r.
EXAMPLE
Suppose it is November 2000 and we are considering a government bond. We see
in The Wall Street Journal some 13s of November 2004. This is jargon that means
the annual coupon rate is 13 percent.1 The face value is $1,000, implying that the
yearly coupon is $130 (13%  $1,000). Interest is paid each May and November,
implying that the coupon every six months is $65 ($130/2). The face value will be
paid out in November 2004, four years from now. By this we mean that the pur-
chaser obtains claims to the following cash flows:
5/01
11/01
5/02
11/02
5/03
11/03
5/04
11/04
$65
$65
$65
$65
$65
$65
$65
$65  $1,000
If the stated annual interest rate in the market is 10 percent per year, what is the
present value of the bond?
Our work on compounding in the previous chapter showed that the interest
rate over any six-month interval is one half of the stated annual interest rate. In the
current example, this semiannual rate is 5 percent (10%/2). Since the coupon pay-
ment in each six-month period is $65, and there are eight of these six-month peri-
ods from November 2000 to November 2004, the present value of the bond is
PV 
 . . . 
 $65 
 $1,000/(1.05)8
 ($65  6.463)  ($1,000  0.677)
 $420.095  $677
 $1,097.095
Traders will generally quote the bond as 109.7095,2 indicating that it is sell-
ing at 109.7095 percent of the face value of $1,000.
A 8
0.05
$65
1.05 8  $1,000
1.05 8
$65
1.05 
$65
1.05 2
A T
r
 $1,000
1  r T
A T
r
C
1  r T  $1,000
1  r T
C
1  r 
C
1  r 2
104
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
1The coupon rate is specific to the bond. The coupon rate indicates what cash flow should appear in the
numerator of the NPV equation. The coupon rate does not appear in the denominator of the NPV equation.
2Bond prices are actually quoted in 32nds of a dollar, so a quote this precise would not be given.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
111
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
At this point, it is worthwhile to relate the above example of bond-pricing to the dis-
cussion of compounding in the previous chapter. At that time we distinguished between the
stated annual interest rate and the effective annual interest rate. In particular, we pointed out
that the effective annual interest rate is
(1  r/m)m  1
where r is the stated annual interest rate and m is the number of compounding intervals.
Since r  10% and m  2 (because the bond makes semiannual payments), the effective
annual interest rate is
[1  (0.10/2)]2  1  (1.05)2  1  10.25%
In other words, because the bond is paying interest twice a year, the bondholder earns a
10.25-percent return when compounding is considered.3
One final note concerning level-coupon bonds: Although the preceding example con-
cerns government bonds, corporate bonds are identical in form. For example, DuPont
Corporation has an 81⁄2-percent bond maturing in 2006. This means that DuPont will make
semiannual payments of $42.50 (81⁄2%/2  $1,000) between now and 2006 for each face
value of $1,000.
Consols
Not all bonds have a final maturity date. As we mentioned in the previous chapter, consols
are bonds that never stop paying a coupon, have no final maturity date, and therefore never
mature. Thus, a consol is a perpetuity. In the 18th century the Bank of England issued such
bonds, called “English consols.” These were bonds that the Bank of England guaranteed
would pay the holder a cash flow forever! Through wars and depressions, the Bank of Eng-
land continued to honor this commitment, and you can still buy such bonds in London to-
day. The U.S. government also once sold consols to raise money to build the Panama Canal.
Even though these U.S. bonds were supposed to last forever and to pay their coupons for-
ever, don’t go looking for any. There is a special clause in the bond contract that gives the
government the right to buy them back from the holders, and that is what the government
has done. Clauses like that are call provisions, and we study them later.
An important example of a consol, though, is called preferred stock. Preferred stock is
stock that is issued by corporations and that provides the holder a fixed dividend in perpe-
tuity. If there were never any question that the firm would actually pay the dividend on the
preferred stock, such stock would in fact be a consol.
These instruments can be valued by the perpetuity formula of the previous chapter. For
example, if the marketwide interest rate is 10 percent, a consol with a yearly interest pay-
ment of $50 is valued at
 $500
• Define pure discount bonds, level-coupon bonds, and consols.
• Contrast the stated interest rate and the effective annual interest rate for bonds paying
semiannual interest.
$50
0.10
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
105
3For an excellent discussion of how to value semiannual payments, see J. T. Lindley, B. P. Helms, and 
M. Haddad, “A Measurement of the Errors in Intra-Period Compounding and Bond Valuation,” The Financial
Review 22 (February 1987). We benefited from several conversations with the authors of this article.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
112
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
5.3 BOND CONCEPTS
We complete our discussion on bonds by considering two concepts concerning them. First,
we examine the relationship between interest rates and bond prices. Second, we define the
concept of yield to maturity.
Interest Rates and Bond Prices
The above discussion on level-coupon bonds allows us to relate bond prices to interest rates.
Consider the following example.
EXAMPLE
The interest rate is 10 percent. A two-year bond with a 10-percent coupon pays in-
terest of $100 ($1,000  10%). For simplicity, we assume that the interest is paid
annually. The bond is priced at its face value of $1,000:
$1,000 
If the interest rate unexpectedly rises to 12 percent, the bond sells at
$966.20 
Because $966.20 is below $1,000, the bond is said to sell at a discount. This is a
sensible result. Now that the interest rate is 12 percent, a newly issued bond with
a 12-percent coupon rate will sell at $1,000. This newly issued bond will have
coupon payments of $120 (0.12  $1,000). Because our bond has interest pay-
ments of only $100, investors will pay less than $1,000 for it.
If interest rates fell to 8 percent, the bond would sell at
$1,035.67 
Because $1,035.67 is above $1,000, the bond is said to sell at a premium.
Thus, we find that bond prices fall with a rise in interest rates and rise with a fall in in-
terest rates. Furthermore, the general principle is that a level-coupon bond sells in the fol-
lowing ways.
1. At the face value of $1,000 if the coupon rate is equal to the marketwide interest rate.
2. At a discount if the coupon rate is below the marketwide interest rate.
3. At a premium if the coupon rate is above the marketwide interest rate.
Yield to Maturity
Let’s now consider the previous example in reverse. If our bond is selling at $1,035.67, what
return is a bondholder receiving? This can be answered by considering the following equa-
tion:
$1,035.67  $100
1  y  $1,000  $100
1  y 2
$100
1.08  $1,000  $100
1.08 2
$100
1.12  $1,000  $100
1.12 2
$100
1.10  $1,000  $100
1.10 2
106
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
113
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The unknown, y, is the discount rate that equates the price of the bond with the discounted
value of the coupons and face value. Our earlier work implies that y  8%. Thus, traders
state that the bond is yielding an 8-percent return. Bond traders also state that the bond has
a yield to maturity of 8 percent. The yield to maturity is frequently called the bond’s yield
for short. So we would say the bond with its 10-percent coupon is priced to yield 8 percent
at $1,035.67.
Bond Market Reporting
Almost all corporate bonds are traded by institutional investors and are traded on the
over-the-counter market (OTC for short). There is a corporate bond market associated
with the New York Stock Exchange. This bond market is mostly a retail market for indi-
vidual investors for smaller trades. It represents a very small fraction of total corporate
bond trading.
Table 5.1 reproduces some bond data that can be found in The Wall Street Journal on
any particular day. At the bottom of the list you will find AT&T and an entry AT&T 
81⁄8/22. This entry represents AT&T bonds that mature in the year 2022 and have a coupon
rate of 81⁄8. The coupon rate means 81⁄8 percent of the par value (or face value) of $1,000.
Therefore, the annual coupon for AT&T bonds is $81.25.
Under the heading “Close,” you will find the last price for the AT&T bonds at the close
of this particular day. The price is quoted as a percentage of the par value. So the last price
for the AT&T bonds on this particular day was 100 percent of $1,000 or $1,000.00. This
bond is trading at a price less than its par value, and so it is trading at a “discount.” The last
column is “Net Chg.” AT&T bonds traded up from the day before by 3⁄8 of 1 percent. The
AT&T bonds have a current yield of 8.1 percent. The current yield is simply the current
coupon divided by the current price, or 81.25 divided by 1,000, equal to 8.1 percent
(rounded to one decimal place).
You should know from our discussion of bond yields that the current yield is not the
same thing as the bonds’ yield to maturity. The yield to maturity is not usually reported
on a daily basis by the financial press. The “Vol” column is the daily volume of 97. This
is the number of bonds that were traded on the New York Stock Exchange on this par-
ticular day.
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
107
THE PRESENT VALUE FORMULAS FOR BONDS
Pure Discount Bonds
PV 
Level-Coupon Bonds
PV  C
where F is typically $1,000 for a level-coupon bond.
Consols
PV  C
r

1
r 
1
r  1  r T	 
F
1  r T  C  A T
r 
F
1  r T
F
1  r T

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
114
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
• What is the relationship between interest rates and bond prices?
• How does one calculate the yield to maturity on a bond?
5.4 THE PRESENT VALUE OF COMMON STOCKS
Dividends versus Capital Gains
Our goal in this section is to value common stocks. We learned in the previous chapter that
an asset’s value is determined by the present value of its future cash flows. A stock provides
two kinds of cash flows. First, most stocks pay dividends on a regular basis. Second, the
stockholder receives the sale price when she sells the stock. Thus, in order to value com-
mon stocks, we need to answer an interesting question: Is the value of a stock equal to 
1. The discounted present value of the sum of next period’s dividend plus next period’s
stock price, or
2. The discounted present value of all future dividends?
This is the kind of question that students would love to see on a multiple-choice exam, be-
cause both (1) and (2) are right.
To see that (1) and (2) are the same, let’s start with an individual who will buy the stock
and hold it for one year. In other words, she has a one-year holding period. In addition, she
is willing to pay P0 for the stock today. That is, she calculates
P0 
(5.1)
Div1 is the dividend paid at year’s end and P1 is the price at year’s end. P0 is the PV of the
common-stock investment. The term in the denominator, r, is the discount rate of the stock.
It will be equal to the interest rate in the case where the stock is riskless. It is likely to be
greater than the interest rate in the case where the stock is risky.
That seems easy enough, but where does P1 come from? P1 is not pulled out of thin air.
Rather, there must be a buyer at the end of year 1 who is willing to purchase the stock for
P1. This buyer determines price by
Div1
1  r 
P1
1  r
108
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
I TABLE 5.1 Bond Market Reporting
Cur
Net
Bonds
Yld.
Vol.
Close
Chg.
AMF 107⁄8 06
25.3
10
43
...
AMR 9s16
8.8
25
102

3⁄8
ATT 51⁄8 01
5.2
30
981⁄2

5⁄16
ATT 71⁄8 02
7.1
55
1001⁄8

1⁄8
ATT 61⁄2 02
6.6
50
99

7⁄8
ATT 63⁄4 04
6.9
52
973⁄4

3⁄8
ATT 55⁄8 04
6.0
138
943⁄8
...
ATT 71⁄2 06
7.4
60
1003⁄4

1⁄2
ATT 73⁄4 07
7.6
83
1011⁄2

1⁄2
ATT 6s09
6.7
40
89

5⁄8
ATT 81⁄8 22
8.1
97
100

3⁄8
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
115
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
P1 
(5.2)
Substituting the value of P1 from (5.2) into equation (5.1) yields
P0 

(5.3)
We can ask a similar question for formula (5.3): Where does P2 come from? An in-
vestor at the end of year 2 is willing to pay P2 because of the dividend and stock price at
year 3. This process can be repeated ad nauseam.4 At the end, we are left with
P0 
 . . . 
(5.4)
Thus the value of a firm’s common stock to the investor is equal to the present value of all
of the expected future dividends.
This is a very useful result. A common objection to applying present value analysis to
stocks is that investors are too shortsighted to care about the long-run stream of dividends.
These critics argue that an investor will generally not look past his or her time horizon.
Thus, prices in a market dominated by short-term investors will reflect only near-term div-
idends. However, our discussion shows that a long-run dividend-discount model holds even
when investors have short-term time horizons. Although an investor may want to cash out
early, she must find another investor who is willing to buy. The price this second investor
pays is dependent on dividends after his date of purchase.
Valuation of Different Types of Stocks
The above discussion shows that the value of the firm is the present value of its future div-
idends. How do we apply this idea in practice? Equation (5.4) represents a very general
model and is applicable regardless of whether the level of expected dividends is growing,
fluctuating, or constant. The general model can be simplified if the firm’s dividends are ex-
pected to follow some basic patterns: (1) zero growth, (2) constant growth, and (3) differ-
ential growth. These cases are illustrated in Figure 5.2.
Case 1 (Zero Growth)
The value of a stock with a constant dividend is given by
P0 
 . . . 
Here it is assumed that Div1  Div2  . . .  Div. This is just an application of the perpe-
tuity formula of the previous chapter.
Case 2 (Constant Growth)
Dividends grow at rate g, as follows:
End of Year
1
2
3
4
. . .
Dividend
Div
Div(1  g)
Div(1  g)2
Div(1  g)3
Note that Div is the dividend at the end of the first period.
Div
r
Div1
1  r 
Div2
1  r 2

	
t1
Divt
1  r t
Div1
1  r 
Div2
1  r 2 
Div3
1  r 3
Div1
1  r 
Div2
1  r 2 
P2
1  r 2
1
1  rDiv1  
Div2  P2
1  r 	
Div2
1  r 
P2
1  r
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
109
4This procedure reminds us of the physicist lecturing on the origins of the universe. He was approached by an elderly
gentleman in the audience who disagreed with the lecture. The attendee said that the universe rests on the back of a
huge turtle. When the physicist asked what the turtle rested on, the gentleman said another turtle. Anticipating the
physicist’s objections, the attendee said, “Don’t tire yourself out, young fellow. It’s turtles all the way down.”

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
116
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
Hampshire Products will pay a dividend of $4 per share a year from now. Finan-
cial analysts believe that dividends will rise at 6 percent per year for the foresee-
able future. What is the dividend per share at the end of each of the first five years?
End of Year
1
2
3
4
5
Dividend
$4.00
$4  (1.06)
$4  (1.06)2
$4  (1.06)3
$4  (1.06)4
 $4.24
 $4.4944
 $4.7641
 $5.0499
The value of a common stock with dividends growing at a constant rate is
P0 
 . . .

where g is the growth rate. Div is the dividend on the stock at the end of the first
period. This is the formula for the present value of a growing perpetuity, which we
derived in the previous chapter.
EXAMPLE
Suppose an investor is considering the purchase of a share of the Utah Mining
Company. The stock will pay a $3 dividend a year from today. This dividend is ex-
pected to grow at 10 percent per year (g  10%) for the foreseeable future. The
Div
r  g
Div
1  r  Div 1  g
1  r 2
 Div 1  g 2
1  r 3
 Div1  g 3
1  r 4
110
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
Low growth
g2
Differential growth
g1  g2
Constant growth
High growth
g1
Zero growth
g = 0
Years
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Dividends per share
I FIGURE 5.2 Zero-Growth, Constant-Growth, and Differential-
Growth Patterns
Dividend-growth models
Zero growth:
Constant growth:
Differential growth: P0  
T
t1
 Div 1  g1 t
1  r t

DivT1
r  g2
1  r T
P0  Div
r  g
P0  Div
r

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
117
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
investor thinks that the required return (r) on this stock is 15 percent, given her as-
sessment of Utah Mining’s risk. (We also refer to r as the discount rate of the
stock.) What is the value of a share of Utah Mining Company’s stock?
Using the constant growth formula of case 2, we assess the value to be $60:
$60 
P0 is quite dependent on the value of g. If g had been estimated to be 121⁄2 per-
cent, the value of the share would have been
$120 
The stock price doubles (from $60 to $120) when g only increases 25 percent
(from 10 percent to 12.5 percent). Because of P0’s dependency on g, one must
maintain a healthy sense of skepticism when using this constant growth of divi-
dends model.
Furthermore, note that P0 is equal to infinity when the growth rate, g, equals
the discount rate, r. Because stock prices do not grow infinitely, an estimate of g
greater than r implies an error in estimation. More will be said of this point later.
Case 3 (Differential Growth)
In this case, an algebraic formula would be too unwieldy.
Instead, we present examples.
EXAMPLE
Consider the stock of Elixir Drug Company, which has a new back-rub ointment
and is enjoying rapid growth. The dividend for a share of stock a year from today
will be $1.15. During the next four years, the dividend will grow at 15 percent per
year (g1  15%). After that, growth (g2) will be equal to 10 percent per year. Can
you calculate the present value of the stock if the required return (r) is 15 percent?
Figure 5.3 displays the growth in the dividends. We need to apply a two-step
process to discount these dividends. We first calculate the net present value of the
dividends growing at 15 percent per annum. That is, we first calculate the present
value of the dividends at the end of each of the first five years. Second, we calcu-
late the present value of the dividends beginning at the end of year 6.
Calculate Present Value of First Five Dividends
The present value of dividend
payments in years 1 through 5 is as follows:
Future
Growth
Expected
Present
Year
Rate (g1)
Dividend
Value
1
0.15
$1.15
$1
2
0.15
1.3225
1
3
0.15
1.5209
1
4
0.15
1.7490
1
5
0.15
2.0114
1
Years 1–5
The present value of dividends  $5
The growing-annuity formula of the previous chapter could normally be used in this
step. However, note that dividends grow at 15 percent, which is also the discount
rate. Since g  r, the growing-annuity formula cannot be used in this example.
$3
0.15  0.125
$3
0.15  0.10
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
111

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
118
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Calculate Present Value of Dividends Beginning at End of Year 6
This is the
procedure for deferred perpetuities and deferred annuities that we mentioned in
the previous chapter. The dividends beginning at the end of year 6 are
End of Year
6
7
8
9
Dividend
Div5  (1  g2)
Div5  (1  g2)2
Div5  (1  g2)3
Div5  (1  g2)4
$2.0114  1.10
2.0114  (1.10)2
2.0114  (1.10)3
2.0114  (1.10)4
 $2.2125
 $2.4338
 $2.6772
 $2.9449
As stated in the previous chapter, the growing-perpetuity formula calculates present
value as of one year prior to the first payment. Because the payment begins at the end
of year 6, the present value formula calculates present value as of the end of year 5.
The price at the end of year 5 is given by
P5 
 $44.25
The present value of P5 at the end of year 0 is
 $22
The present value of all dividends as of the end of year 0 is $27 ($22  $5).
5.5 ESTIMATES OF PARAMETERS IN THE DIVIDEND-
DISCOUNT MODEL
The value of the firm is a function of its growth rate, g, and its discount rate, r. How does
one estimate these variables?
P5
1  r 5  $44.25
1.15 5
Div6
r  g2

$2.2125
0.15  0.10
112
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
Dividends
End of year
15% growth rate
$1.15
$1.3225
$1.5209
$1.7490
$2.0114
$2.2125
$2.4338
$2.6772
$2.9449
10% growth rate
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
I FIGURE 5.3 Growth in Dividends for Elixir Drug Company

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
119
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Where Does g Come From?
The previous discussion on stocks assumed that dividends grow at the rate g. We now
want to estimate this rate of growth. Consider a business whose earnings next year are ex-
pected to be the same as earnings this year unless a net investment is made. This situation
is likely to occur, because net investment is equal to gross, or total, investment less de-
preciation. A net investment of zero occurs when total investment equals depreciation. If
total investment is equal to depreciation, the firm’s physical plant is maintained, consis-
tent with no growth in earnings.
Net investment will be positive only if some earnings are not paid out as dividends, that
is, only if some earnings are retained.5 This leads to the following equation:
Earnings
Earnings
Retained
Return on
next

this

earnings

retained
(5.5)
year
year
this year
earnings
Increase in earnings
The increase in earnings is a function of both the retained earnings and the return on the
retained earnings.
We now divide both sides of (5.5) by earnings this year, yielding
 
(5.6)
The left-hand side of (5.6) is simply one plus the growth rate in earnings, which we write as 
1  g.6The ratio of retained earnings to earnings is called the retention ratio.Thus, we can write
1  g  1  Retention ratio  Return on retained earnings
(5.7)
It is difficult for a financial analyst to determine the return to be expected on currently
retained earnings, because the details on forthcoming projects are not generally public in-
formation. However, it is frequently assumed that the projects selected in the current year
have an anticipated return equal to returns from projects in other years. Here, we can esti-
mate the anticipated return on current retained earnings by the historical return on equity,
or ROE. After all, ROE is simply the return on the firm’s entire equity, which is the return
on the cumulation of all the firm’s past projects.7
From (5.7), we have a simple way to estimate growth:
Formula for Firm’s Growth Rate:
g  Retention ratio  Return on retained earnings
(5.8)
Earnings this year
Earnings this year  
Retained earnings this year
Earnings this year
  Return on retained earnings
Earnings next year
Earnings this year
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
113
5We ignore the possibility of the issuance of stocks or bonds in order to raise capital. These possibilities are
considered in later chapters.
6Previously g referred to growth in dividends. However, the growth in earnings is equal to the growth rate in
dividends in this context, because as we will presently see, the ratio of dividends to earnings is held constant.
7Students frequently wonder whether return on equity (ROE) or return on assets (ROA) should be used here.
ROA and ROE are identical in our model because debt financing is ignored. However, most real-world firms
have debt. Because debt is treated in later chapters, we are not yet able to treat this issue in depth now. Suffice it
to say that ROE is the appropriate rate, because both ROE for the firm as a whole and the return to equityholders
from a future project are calculated after interest has been deducted.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
120
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
Pagemaster Enterprises just reported earnings of $2 million. It plans to retain 40 percent
of its earnings. The historical return on equity (ROE) has been 0.16, a figure that is ex-
pected to continue into the future. How much will earnings grow over the coming year?
We first perform the calculation without reference to equation (5.8). Then we
use (5.8) as a check.
Calculation without Reference to Equation (5.8)
The firm will retain $800,000
(40%  $2 million). Assuming that historical ROE is an appropriate estimate for
future returns, the anticipated increase in earnings is
$800,000  0.16  $128,000
The percentage growth in earnings is
This implies that earnings in one year will be $2,128,000 ($2,000,000  1.064).
Check Using Equation (5.8)
We use g  Retention ratio  ROE. We have
g  0.4  0.16  0.064 
Where Does r Come From?
In this section, we want to estimate r, the rate used to discount the cash flows of a particu-
lar stock. There are two methods developed by academics. We present one method below
but must defer the second until we give it extensive treatment in later chapters.
The first method begins with the concept that the value of a growing perpetuity is
P0 
Solving for r, we have
r 
 g
(5.9)
As stated earlier, Div refers to the dividend to be received one year hence.
Thus, the discount rate can be broken into two parts. The ratio, Div/P0, places the div-
idend return on a percentage basis, frequently called the dividend yield. The second term,
g, is the growth rate of dividends.
Because information on both dividends and stock price is publicly available, the first
term on the right-hand side of equation (5.9) can be easily calculated. The second term on
the right-hand side, g, can be estimated from (5.8).
EXAMPLE
Pagemaster Enterprises, the company examined in the previous example, has
1,000,000 shares of stock outstanding. The stock is selling at $10. What is the re-
quired return on the stock?
Because the retention ratio is 40 percent, the payout ratio is 60 percent (1  Re-
tention ratio). The payout ratio is the ratio of dividends/earnings. Because earnings a
year from now will be $2,128,000 ($2,000,000  1.064), dividends will be $1,276,800
Div
P0
Div
r  g
Change in earnings
Total earnings
 $128,000
$2 million  0.064
114
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
121
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
(0.60  $2,128,000). Dividends per share will be $1.28 ($1,276,800/1,000,000).
Given our previous result that g  0.064, we calculate r from (5.9) as follows:
0.192 
 0.064
A Healthy Sense of Skepticism
It is important to emphasize that our approach merely estimates g; our approach does not 
determine g precisely. We mentioned earlier that our estimate of g is based on a number of as-
sumptions. For example, we assume that the return on reinvestment of future retained earn-
ings is equal to the firm’s past ROE. We assume that the future retention ratio is equal to the
past retention ratio. Our estimate for g will be off if these assumptions prove to be wrong.
Unfortunately, the determination of r is highly dependent on g. For example, if g is esti-
mated to be 0, r equals 12.8 percent ($1.28/$10.00). If g is estimated to be 12 percent, r equals
24.8 percent ($1.28/$10.00  12%). Thus, one should view estimates of r with a healthy sense
of skepticism.
Because of the preceding, some financial economists generally argue that the estima-
tion error for r or a single security is too large to be practical. Therefore, they suggest cal-
culating the average r for an entire industry. This r would then be used to discount the div-
idends of a particular stock in the same industry.
One should be particularly skeptical of two polar cases when estimating r for individ-
ual securities. First, consider a firm currently paying no dividend. The stock price will be
above zero because investors believe that the firm may initiate a dividend at some point or
the firm may be acquired at some point. However, when a firm goes from no dividends to
a positive number of dividends, the implied growth rate is infinite. Thus, equation (5.9) must
be used with extreme caution here, if at all—a point we emphasize later in this chapter.
Second, we mentioned earlier that the value of the firm is infinite when g is equal to r.
Because prices for stocks do not grow infinitely, an analyst whose estimate of g for a par-
ticular firm is equal to or above r must have made a mistake. Most likely, the analyst’s high
estimate for g is correct for the next few years. However, firms simply cannot maintain an
abnormally high growth rate forever. The analyst’s error was to use a short-run estimate of
g in a model requiring a perpetual growth rate.
5.6 GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES
We previously spoke of the growth rate of dividends. We now want to address the related
concept of growth opportunities. Imagine a company with a level stream of earnings per
share in perpetuity. The company pays all of these earnings out to stockholders as divi-
dends. Hence,
EPS  Div
where EPS is earnings per share and Div is dividends per share. A company of this type is
frequently called a cash cow.
From the perpetuity formula of the previous chapter, the value of a share of stock is:
Value of a Share of Stock when Firm Acts as a Cash Cow:
where r is the discount rate on the firm’s stock.
EPS
r
 Div
r
$1.28
$10.00
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
115

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
122
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
This policy of paying out all earnings as dividends may not be the optimal one. Many
firms have growth opportunities, that is, opportunities to invest in profitable projects.
Because these projects can represent a significant fraction of the firm’s value, it would be
foolish to forgo them in order to pay out all earnings as dividends.
Although firms frequently think in terms of a set of growth opportunities, let’s focus
on only one opportunity, that is, the opportunity to invest in a single project. Suppose the
firm retains the entire dividend at date 1 in order to invest in a particular capital budgeting
project. The net present value per share of the project as of date 0 is NPVGO, which stands
for the net present value (per share) of the growth opportunity.
What is the price of a share of stock at date 0 if the firm decides to take on the project
at date 1? Because the per share value of the project is added to the original stock price, the
stock price must now be:
Stock Price after Firm Commits to New Project:
 NPVGO
(5.10)
Thus, equation (5.10) indicates that the price of a share of stock can be viewed as the
sum of two different items. The first term (EPS/r) is the value of the firm if it rested on its
laurels, that is, if it simply distributed all earnings to the stockholders. The second term is
the additional value if the firm retains earnings in order to fund new projects.
EXAMPLE
Sarro Shipping, Inc., expects to earn $1 million per year in perpetuity if it undertakes
no new investment opportunities. There are 100,000 shares of stock outstanding, so
earnings per share equal $10 ($1,000,000/100,000). The firm will have an opportunity
at date 1 to spend $1,000,000 in a new marketing campaign. The new campaign will
increase earnings in every subsequent period by $210,000 (or $2.10 per share). This is
a 21-percent return per year on the project. The firm’s discount rate is 10 percent. What
is the value per share before and after deciding to accept the marketing campaign?
The value of a share of Sarro Shipping before the campaign is
Value of a Share of Sarro when Firm Acts as a Cash Cow:
The value of the marketing campaign as of date 1 is:
Value of Marketing Campaign at Date 1:
$1,000,000 
 $1,100,000
(5.11)
Because the investment is made at date 1 and the first cash inflow occurs at date
2, equation (5.11) represents the value of the marketing campaign as of date 1. We
determine the value at date 0 by discounting back one period as follows:
Value of Marketing Campaign at Date 0:
 $1,000,000
Thus, NPVGO per share is $10 ($1,000,000/100,000).
The price per share is
EPS/r  NPVGO  $100  $10  $110
$1,100,000
1.1
$210,000
0.1
EPS
r
 $10
0.1  $100
EPS
r
116
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
123
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The calculation can also be made on a straight net-present-value basis. Because all the
earnings at date 1 are spent on the marketing effort, no dividends are paid to stockholders
at that date. Dividends in all subsequent periods are $1,210,000 ($1,000,000  $210,000).
In this case, $1,000,000 is the annual dividend when Sarro is a cash cow. The additional
contribution to the dividend from the marketing effort is $210,000. Dividends per share are
$12.10 ($1,210,000/100,000). Because these dividends start at date 2, the price per share at
date 1 is $121 ($12.10/0.1). The price per share at date 0 is $110 ($121/1.1).
Note that value is created in this example because the project earned a 21-percent rate
of return when the discount rate was only 10 percent. No value would have been created
had the project earned a 10-percent rate of return. The NPVGO would have been zero, and
value would have been negative had the project earned a percentage return below 10 per-
cent. The NPVGO would be negative in that case.
Two conditions must be met in order to increase value.
1. Earnings must be retained so that projects can be funded.8
2. The projects must have positive net present value.
Surprisingly, a number of companies seem to invest in projects known to have negative
net present values. For example, Jensen has pointed out that, in the late 1970s, oil companies
and tobacco companies were flush with cash.9 Due to declining markets in both industries,
high dividends and low investment would have been the rational action. Unfortunately, a num-
ber of companies in both industries reinvested heavily in what were widely perceived to be
negative-NPVGO projects. A study by McConnell and Muscarella documents this percep-
tion.10 They find that, during the 1970s, the stock prices of oil companies generally decreased
on the days that announcements of increases in exploration and development were made.
Given that NPV analysis (such as that presented in the previous chapter) is common
knowledge in business, why would managers choose projects with negative NPVs? One
conjecture is that some managers enjoy controlling a large company. Because paying divi-
dends in lieu of reinvesting earnings reduces the size of the firm, some managers find it
emotionally difficult to pay high dividends.
Growth in Earnings and Dividends versus Growth Opportunities
As mentioned earlier, a firm’s value increases when it invests in growth opportunities with
positive NPVGOs. A firm’s value falls when it selects opportunities with negative NPVGOs.
However, dividends grow whether projects with positive NPVs or negative NPVs are se-
lected. This surprising result can be explained by the following example.
EXAMPLE
Lane Supermarkets, a new firm, will earn $100,000 a year in perpetuity if it pays
out all its earnings as dividends. However, the firm plans to invest 20 percent of its
earnings in projects that earn 10 percent per year. The discount rate is 18 percent.
An earlier formula tells us that the growth rate of dividends is
g  Retention ratio  Return on retained earnings  0.2  0.10  2%
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
117
8Later in the text we speak of issuing stock or debt in order to fund projects.
9M. C. Jensen, “Agency Costs of Free Cash Flows, Corporate Finance and Takeovers,” American Economic
Review (May 1986).
10J. J. McConnell and C. J. Muscarella, “Corporate Capital Expenditure Decisions and the Market Value of the
Firm,” Journal of Financial Economics 14 (1985).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
124
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
For example, in this first year of the new policy, dividends are $80,000 [(1  0.2) 
$100,000]. Dividends next year are $81,600 ($80,000  1.02). Dividends the fol-
lowing year are $83,232 [$80,000  (1.02)2] and so on. Because dividends repre-
sent a fixed percentage of earnings, earnings must grow at 2 percent a year as well.
However, note that the policy reduces value because the rate of return on the
projects of 10 percent is less than the discount rate of 18 percent. That is, the firm
would have had a higher value at date 0 if it had a policy of paying all its earnings
out as dividends. Thus, a policy of investing in projects with negative NPVs rather
than paying out earnings as dividends will lead to growth in dividends and earn-
ings, but will reduce value.
Dividends or Earnings: Which to Discount?
As mentioned earlier, this chapter applied the growing-perpetuity formula to the valuation
of stocks. In our application, we discounted dividends, not earnings. This is sensible since
investors select a stock for what they can get out of it. They only get two things out of a
stock: dividends and the ultimate sales price, which is determined by what future investors
expect to receive in dividends.
The calculated stock price would be too high were earnings to be discounted instead of
dividends. As we saw in our estimation of a firm’s growth rate, only a portion of earnings
goes to the stockholders as dividends. The remainder is retained to generate future divi-
dends. In our model, retained earnings are equal to the firm’s investment. To discount earn-
ings instead of dividends would be to ignore the investment that a firm must make today in
order to generate future returns.
The No-Dividend Firm
Students frequently ask the following questions: If the dividend-discount model is correct,
why aren’t no-dividend stocks selling at zero? This is a good question and gets at the goals
of the firm. A firm with many growth opportunities is faced with a dilemma. The firm can
pay out dividends now, or it can forgo dividends now so that it can make investments that
will generate even greater dividends in the future.11 This is often a painful choice, because a
strategy of dividend deferment may be optimal yet unpopular among certain stockholders.
Many firms choose to pay no dividends—and these firms sell at positive prices.12
Rational shareholders believe that they will either receive dividends at some point or they
will receive something just as good. That is, the firm will be acquired in a merger, with the
stockholders receiving either cash or shares of stock at that time.
Of course, the actual application of the dividend-discount model is difficult for firms
of this type. Clearly, the model for constant growth of dividends does not apply. Though the
differential growth model can work in theory, the difficulties of estimating the date of first
dividend, the growth rate of dividends after that date, and the ultimate merger price make
application of the model quite difficult in reality.
Empirical evidence suggests that firms with high growth rates are likely to pay lower
dividends, a result consistent with the above analysis. For example, consider McDonald’s
Corporation. The company started in the 1950s and grew rapidly for many years. It paid its
first dividend in 1975, though it was a billion-dollar company (in both sales and market
118
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
11A third alternative is to issue stock so that the firm has enough cash both to pay dividends and to invest. This
possibility is explored in a later chapter.
12For example, most Internet firms, such as Amazon.com, Earthlink, Inc., and Ebay, Inc., pay no dividends.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
125
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
value of stockholder’s equity) prior to that date. Why did it wait so long to pay a dividend?
It waited because it had so many positive growth opportunities, that is, additional locations
for new hamburger outlets, to take advantage of. 
Utilities are an interesting contrast because, as a group, they have few growth oppor-
tunities. Because of this, they pay out a large fraction of their earnings in dividends. For ex-
ample, Consolited Edison, Sempra Energy, and Kansas City Power and Light have had pay-
out ratios of over 70 percent in many recent years.
5.7 THE DIVIDEND-GROWTH MODEL AND THE NPVGO
MODEL (ADVANCED)
This chapter has revealed that the price of a share of stock is the sum of its price as a cash
cow plus the per-share value of its growth opportunities. The Sarro Shipping example illus-
trated this formula using only one growth opportunity. We also used the growing-perpetuity
formula to price a stock with a steady growth in dividends. When the formula is applied to
stocks, it is typically called the dividend-growth model. A steady growth in dividends results
from a continual investment in growth opportunities, not just investment in a single oppor-
tunity. Therefore, it is worthwhile to compare the dividend-growth model with the NPVGO
model when growth occurs through continual investing.
EXAMPLE
Cumberland Book Publishers has EPS of $10 at the end of the first year, a 
dividend-payout ratio of 40 percent, a discount rate of 16 percent, and a return
on its retained earnings of 20 percent. Because the firm retains some of its
earnings each year, it is selecting growth opportunities each year. This is dif-
ferent from Sarro Shipping, which had a growth opportunity in only one year.
We wish to calculate the price per share using both the dividend-growth model
and the NPVGO model.
The Dividend-Growth Model
The dividends at date 1 are 0.40  $10  $4 per share. The retention ratio is 0.60 (1  0.40),
implying a growth rate in dividends of 0.12 (0.60  0.20).
From the dividend-growth model, the price of a share of stock is
The NPVGO Model
Using the NPVGO model, it is more difficult to value a firm with growth opportunities
each year (like Cumberland) than a firm with growth opportunities in only one year (like
Sarro). In order to value according to the NPVGO model, we need to calculate on a per-
share basis (1) the net present value of a single growth opportunity, (2) the net present
value of all growth opportunities, and (3) the stock price if the firm acts as a cash cow, that
is, the value of the firm without these growth opportunities. The value of the firm is the
sum of (2)  (3).
Div
r  g 
$4
0.16  0.12  $100
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
119

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
126
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
1. Value per Share of a Single Growth Opportunity
Out of the earnings per share of $10
at date 1, the firm retains $6 (0.6  $10) at that date. The firm earns $1.20 ($6  0.20) per
year in perpetuity on that $6 investment. The NPV from the investment is
Per-Share NPV Generated from Investment at Date 1:
$6 
 $1.50
(5.12)
That is, the firm invests $6 in order to reap $1.20 per year on the investment. The earnings
are discounted at 0.16, implying a value per share from the project of $1.50. Because the
investment occurs at date 1 and the first cash flow occurs at date 2, $1.50 is the value of the
investment at date 1. In other words, the NPV from the date 1 investment has not yet been
brought back to date 0.
2. Value per Share of All Opportunities
As pointed out earlier, the growth rate of earnings
and dividends is 12 percent. Because retained earnings are a fixed percentage of total earn-
ings, retained earnings must also grow at 12 percent a year. That is, retained earnings at date
2 are $6.72 ($6  1.12), retained earnings at date 3 are $7.5264 [$6  (1.12)2], and so on.
Let’s analyze the retained earnings at date 2 in more detail. Because projects will al-
ways earn 20 percent per year, the firm earns $1.344 ($6.72  0.20) in each future year on
the $6.72 investment at date 2.
The NPV from the investment is
NPV per Share Generated from Investment at Date 2:
$6.72 
 $1.68
(5.13)
$1.68 is the NPV as of date 2 of the investment made at date 2. The NPV from the date 2
investment has not yet been brought back to date 0.
Now consider the retained earnings at date 3 in more detail. The firm earns $1.5053
($7.5264  0.20) per year on the investment of $7.5264 at date 3.
The NPV from the investment is
NPV per Share Generated from Investment at Date 3:
$7.5264 
 $1.882
(5.14)
From equations (5.12), (5.13), and (5.14), the NPV per share of all of the growth op-
portunities, discounted back to date 0, is
 . . .
(5.15)
Because it has an infinite number of terms, this expression looks quite difficult to com-
pute. However, there is an easy simplification. Note that retained earnings are growing at
12 percent per year. Because all projects earn the same rate of return per year, the NPVs in
(5.12), (5.13), and (5.14) are also growing at 12 percent per year. Hence, we can write equa-
tion (5.15) as
+ . . .
This is a growth perpetuity whose value is
NPVGO  $
 $37.50
1.50
0.16  0.12
$1.50
1.16  $1.50  1.12
1.16 2
 $1.50  1.12 2
1.16 3
$1.50
1.16  $1.68
1.16 2  $1.882
1.16 3
$1.5053
0.16
$1.344
0.16
$1.20
0.16
120
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
127
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Because the first NPV of $1.50 occurs at date 1, the NPVGO is $37.50 as of date 0. In
other words, the firm’s policy of investing in new projects from retained earnings has an
NPV of $37.50.
3. Value per Share if Firm Is a Cash Cow
We now assume that the firm pays out all of
its earnings as dividends. The dividends would be $10 per year in this case. Since there
would be no growth, the value per share would be evaluated by the perpetuity formula:
 $62.50
Summation
Formula (5.10) states that value per share is the value of a cash cow plus the value of the
growth opportunities. This is
$100  $62.50  $37.50
Hence, value is the same whether calculated by a discounted-dividend approach or a
growth-opportunities approach. The share prices from the two approaches must be equal,
because the approaches are different yet equivalent methods of applying concepts of pres-
ent value.
5.8 PRICE-EARNINGS RATIO
We argued earlier that one should not discount earnings in order to determine price per
share. Nevertheless, financial analysts frequently relate earnings and price per share, as
made evident by their heavy reliance on the price-earnings (or P/E) ratio.
Our previous discussion stated that
Price per share 
 NPVGO
Dividing by EPS yields
The left-hand side is the formula for the price-earnings ratio. The equation shows that the
P/E ratio is related to the net present value of growth opportunities. As an example, con-
sider two firms, each having just reported earnings per share of $1. However, one firm has
many valuable growth opportunities while the other firm has no growth opportunities at all.
The firm with growth opportunities should sell at a higher price, because an investor is buy-
ing both current income of $1 and growth opportunities. Suppose that the firm with growth
opportunities sells for $16 and the other firm sells for $8. The $1 earnings per share num-
ber appears in the denominator of the P/E ratio for both firms. Thus, the P/E ratio is 16 for
the firm with growth opportunities, but only 8 for the firm without the opportunities.
This explanation seems to hold fairly well in the real world. Electronic and other high-
tech stocks generally sell at very high P/E ratios (or multiples, as they are often called) be-
cause they are perceived to have high growth rates. In fact, some technology stocks sell at
high prices even though the companies have never earned a profit. The P/E ratios of these
companies are infinite. Conversely, railroads, utilities, and steel companies sell at lower
multiples because of the prospects of lower growth.
Price per share
EPS
 1
r  NPVGO
EPS
EPS
r
Div
r
 $10
0.16
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
121

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
128
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Of course, the market is merely pricing perceptions of the future, not the future itself.
We will argue later in the text that the stock market generally has realistic perceptions of a
firm’s prospects. However, this is not always true. In the late 1960s, many electronics firms
were selling at multiples of 200 times earnings. The high perceived growth rates did not ma-
terialize, causing great declines in stock prices during the early 1970s. In earlier decades,
fortunes were made in stocks like IBM and Xerox because the high growth rates were not
anticipated by investors.
One of the most puzzling phenomena to American investors has been the high P/E ra-
tios in the Japanese stock market. The average P/E ratio for the Tokyo Stock Exchange has
varied between 40 and 100 in recent years, while the average American stock had a multi-
ple of around 25 during this time. Our formula indicates that Japanese companies have been
perceived to have great growth opportunities. However, American commentators have fre-
quently suggested that investors in the Japanese markets have been overestimating these
growth prospects.13 This enigma (at least to American investors) can only be resolved with
the passage of time. Some selected country average P/E ratios appear in Table 5.2. You can
see Japan’s P/E ratio has trended down.
There are two additional factors explaining the P/E ratio. The first is the discount rate, r.
The above formula shows that the P/E ratio is negatively related to the firm’s discount rate.
We have already suggested that the discount rate is positively related to the stock’s risk or vari-
ability. Thus, the P/E ratio is negatively related to the stock’s risk. To see that this is a sensi-
ble result, consider two firms, A and B, behaving as cash cows. The stock market expects both
firms to have annual earnings of $1 per share forever. However, the earnings of firm A are
known with certainty while the earnings of firm B are quite variable. A rational stockholder
is likely to pay more for a share of firm A because of the absence of risk. If a share of firm A
sells at a higher price and both firms have the same EPS, the P/E ratio of firm A must be higher.
The second additional factor concerns the firm’s choice of accounting methods. Under
current accounting rules, companies are given a fair amount of leeway. For example, con-
sider inventory accounting where either FIFO or LIFO may be used. In an inflationary envi-
ronment, FIFO (first in–first out) accounting understates the true cost of inventory and hence
inflates reported earnings. Inventory is valued according to more recent costs under LIFO
(last in–first out), implying that reported earnings are lower here than they would be under
122
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
13It has been suggested that Japanese companies use more conservative accounting practices, thereby creating
higher P/E ratios. This point, which will shortly be examined for firms in general, appears to explain only a
small part of Japan’s high multiples.
I TABLE 5.2 International P/E Ratios
Country Composite
1994
1997
2000
United States
24
21
30
Japan
101
44
38
Germany
35
31
31
Britain
18
18
20
France
29
25
27
Canada
45
25
21
Sweden
52
17
20
Italy
29
22
28
Source: Abstracted from “The Global 1000,” Business Week, July 11, 1994, July 7, 1997, and Forbes, July 24, 2000.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
129
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
FIFO. Thus, LIFO inventory accounting is a more conservative method than FIFO. Similar
accounting leeway exists for construction costs (completed-contracts versus percentage-
of-completion methods) and depreciation (accelerated depreciation versus straight-line 
depreciation).
As an example, consider two identical firms, C and D. Firm C uses LIFO and reports
earnings of $2 per share. Firm D uses the less conservative accounting assumptions of FIFO
and reports earnings of $3 per share. The market knows that both firms are identical and
prices both at $18 per share. This price-earnings ratio is 9 ($18/$2) for firm C and 6 ($18/$3)
for firm D. Thus, the firm with the more conservative principles has the higher P/E ratio.
This last example depends on the assumption that the market sees through differences
in accounting treatments. A significant portion of the academic community believes that the
market sees through virtually all accounting differences. These academics are adherents of
the hypothesis of efficient capital markets, a theory that we explore in great detail later in
the text. Though many financial people might be more moderate in their beliefs regarding
this issue, the consensus view is certainly that many of the accounting differences are seen
through. Thus, the proposition that firms with conservative accountants have high P/E ra-
tios is widely accepted.
This discussion argued that the P/E ratio is a function of three different factors. A com-
pany’s ratio or multiple is likely to be high if (1) it has many growth opportunities, (2) it has
low risk, and (3) it is accounted for in a conservative manner. While each of the three fac-
tors is important, it is our opinion that the first factor is much more so. Thus, our discussion
of growth is quite relevant in understanding price-earnings multiples.
• What are the three factors determining a firm’s P/E ratio?
5.9 STOCK MARKET REPORTING
The Wall Street Journal, the New York Times, or your own local newspaper provides useful in-
formation on a large number of stocks in several stock exchanges. Table 5.3 reproduces what
has been reported on a particular day for several stocks listed on the New York Stock Ex-
change. In Table 5.3, you can easily find the line for General Electric (i.e., “GenElec”). Read-
ing left to right, the first two numbers are the high and low share prices over the last 52 weeks.
For example, the highest price that General Electric traded for at the end of any particular 
day over the last 52 weeks was $6050. This is read as 60 and the decimal .50. The stock sym-
bol for General Electric is GE. Its annual dividend is $0.55. Most dividend-paying companies
such as General Electric pay dividends on a quarterly basis. So the annual dividend is actu-
ally the last quarterly dividend of .138 multiplied by 4 (i.e., .138  4  $0.55).
Some firms like GenenTech do not pay dividends. The Div column for GenenTech is
blank. The “Yld” column stands for dividend yield. General Electric’s dividend yield is the
current annual dividend, $0.55, divided by the current closing daily price, which is $5663
(you can find the closing price for this particular day in the next to last column). Note that
$0.55/5663  1.0 percent. The next column is labeled PE, which is the symbol for the price-
earnings ratio. The price-earnings ratio is the closing price divided by the current earnings
per share (based upon the latest quarterly earnings per share multiplied by 4). General
Electric’s price-earnings ratio is 51. If we were financial analysts or investment bankers, we
would say General Electric “sells for 51 times earnings.” The next column is the volume of
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
123
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
130
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
124
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
I TABLE 5.3 Stock Market Reporting of NYSE-Listed Securities
52 Weeks
Yld 
Vol 
Net 
Hi
Lo
Stock
Sym
Div
%
PE
100s
Hi
Lo
Close
Chg
5375
1906
Gap Inc
GPS
.09
.5
15
65172
2050
19
1925

175
2225
956
GartnerGp
IT
...
22
2331
1094
1031
1094
...
84
43
Gateway
GTW
...
31
23354
4740
4215
4462

129
245
6688
Genentech
DNA
...
dd
21468
159
147
149

431
1544
250
GenDatacm
GDC
...
dd
456
425
4
406

025
6494
3625
GenDynam
GD
1.04
1.6
17
23318
6481
6344
6456

1
6050
3821
GenElec
GE
.55
1.0
51
183051
5769
5531
5663

144
4394
2938
GenMills
GIS
1.10
2.9
18
5054
3794
3731
3769

013
9463
5694
GenMotor
GM
2.00
3.4
7
22653
6113
5838
5863

106
shares traded on this particular day (in hundreds). For General Electric, 18,305,100 shares
traded. This was a heavy trading day for General Electric. The last columns are the High, the
Low, and the Last (Close) share prices on this day. The “Net Chg” tells us that the General
Electric closing price of $5663 was lower than its closing price on the previous day by 144.
In other words, the price of General Electric dropped from $5807 to $5663, in one day.
From Table 5.3:
• What is the closing price of Gateways?
• What is the PE of Gateways?
• What is the annual dividend of General Motors?
5.10 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
In this chapter we use general present-value formulas from the previous chapter to price bonds
and stock.
1. Pure discount bonds and perpetuities can be viewed as the polar cases of bonds. The value of
a pure discount bond (also called a zero-coupon bond, or simply a zero) is
PV 
The value of a perpetuity (also called a consol) is
PV  C
r
F
1  r T
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
131
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
2. Level-payment bonds can be viewed as an intermediate case. The coupon payments form an
annuity and the principal repayment is a lump sum. The value of this type of bond is simply
the sum of the values of its two parts.
3. The yield to maturity on a bond is that single rate that discounts the payments on the bond to
its purchase price.
4. A stock can be valued by discounting its dividends. We mention three types of situations:
a. The case of zero growth of dividends.
b. The case of constant growth of dividends.
c. The case of differential growth.
5. An estimate of the growth rate of a stock is needed for formulas (4b) or (4c) above. A useful
estimate of the growth rate is
g  Retention ratio  Return on retained earnings
6. It is worthwhile to view a share of stock as the sum of its worth, if the company behaves like
a cash cow (the company does no investing), and the value per share of its growth
opportunities. We write the value of a share as
 NPVGO
We show that, in theory, share price must be the same whether the dividend-growth model or
the above formula is used.
7. From accounting, we know that earnings are divided into two parts: dividends and retained
earnings. Most firms continually retain earnings in order to create future dividends. One
should not discount earnings to obtain price per share since part of earnings must be
reinvested. Only dividends reach the stockholders and only they should be discounted to
obtain share price.
8. We suggest that a firm’s price-earnings ratio is a function of three factors:
a. The per-share amount of the firm’s valuable growth opportunities.
b. The risk of the stock.
c. The type of accounting method used by the firm.
KEY TERMS
Coupons
103
Premium
106
Discount
106
Pure discount bond
102
Face value
102
Retention ratio
113
Maturity date
102
Return on equity
113
Payout ratio
114
Yield to maturity
107
SUGGESTED READINGS
The best place to look for additional information is in investment textbooks. A good one is:
Bodie, Z., A. Kane, and A. Marcus. Investments. 5th ed. Burr Ridge, Ill.: Irwin/McGraw-Hill, 2002.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
How to Value Bonds
5.1 What is the present value of a 10-year, pure discount bond that pays $1,000 at maturity and
is priced to yield the following rates?
a. 5 percent
EPS
r
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
125

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
132
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
b. 10 percent
c. 15 percent
5.2 Microhard has issued a bond with the following characteristics:
Principal: $1,000
Term to maturity: 20 years
Coupon rate: 8 percent
Semiannual payments
Calculate the price of the Microhard bond if the stated annual interest rate is:
a. 8 percent
b. 10 percent
c. 6 percent
5.3 Consider a bond with a face value of $1,000. The coupon is paid semiannually and the
market interest rate (effective annual interest rate) is 12 percent. How much would you pay
for the bond if
a. the coupon rate is 8 percent and the remaining time to maturity is 20 years?
b. the coupon rate is 10 percent and the remaining time to maturity is 15 years?
5.4 Pettit Trucking has issued an 8-percent, 20-year bond that pays interest semiannually. If the
market prices the bond to yield an effective annual rate of 10 percent, what is the price of
the bond?
5.5 A bond is sold at $923.14 (below its par value of $1,000). The bond has 15 years to
maturity and investors require a 10-percent yield on the bond. What is the coupon rate for
the bond if the coupon is paid semiannually?
5.6 You have just purchased a newly issued $1,000 five-year Vanguard Company bond at par.
This five-year bond pays $60 in interest semiannually. You are also considering the purchase
of another Vanguard Company bond that returns $30 in semiannual interest payments and
has six years remaining before it matures. This bond has a face value of $1,000.
a. What is effective annual return on the five-year bond?
b. Assume that the rate you calculated in part (a) is the correct rate for the bond with six
years remaining before it matures. What should you be willing to pay for that bond?
c. How will your answer to part (b) change if the five-year bond pays $40 in semiannual
interest?
Bond Concepts
5.7 Consider two bonds, bond A and bond B, with equal rates of 10 percent and the same face
values of $1,000. The coupons are paid annually for both bonds. Bond A has 20 years to
maturity while bond B has 10 years to maturity.
a. What are the prices of the two bonds if the relevant market interest rate is 10 percent?
b. If the market interest rate increases to 12 percent, what will be the prices of the two bonds?
c. If the market interest rate decreases to 8 percent, what will be the prices of the two bonds?
5.8 a. If the market interest rate (the required rate of return that investors demand)
unexpectedly increases, what effect would you expect this increase to have on the
prices of long-term bonds? Why?
b. What would be the effect of the rise in the interest rate on the general level of stock
prices? Why?
5.9 Consider a bond that pays an $80 coupon annually and has a face value of $1,000.
Calculate the yield to maturity if the bond has
a. 20 years remaining to maturity and it is sold at $1,200.
b. 10 years remaining to maturity and it is sold at $950.
5.10 The Sue Fleming Corporation has two different bonds currently outstanding. Bond A has a
face value of $40,000 and matures in 20 years. The bond makes no payments for the first
six years and then pays $2,000 semiannually for the subsequent eight years, and finally
pays $2,500 semiannually for the last six years. Bond B also has a face value of $40,000
126
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
133
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
and a maturity of 20 years; it makes no coupon payments over the life of the bond. If the
required rate of return is 12 percent compounded semiannually, what is the current price of
Bond A? of Bond B?
The Present Value of Common Stocks
5.11 Use the following February 11, 2000, WSJ quotation for AT&T Corp. Which of the
following statements is false?
a. The closing price of the bond with the shortest time to maturity was $1,000.
b. The annual coupon for the bond maturing in year 2016 is $90.00.
c. The price on the day before this quotation (i.e., February 9) for the ATT bond maturing
in year 2022 was $1.075 per bond contract.
d. The current yield on the ATT bond maturing in year 2002 was 7.125%
e. The ATT bond maturing in year 2002 has a yield to maturity less than 7.125%.
Bonds
Cur Yld
Vol
Close
Net Chg
ATT 9s 16
?
10
117
 1/4
ATT 5 1/8 01
?
5
100
 3/4
ATT 7 1/8 02
?
193
104 1/8
 1/4
ATT 8 1/8 22
?
39
107 3/8
 1/8
5.12 Following are selected quotations for New York Exchange Bonds from the Wall Street
Journal. Which of the following statements about Wilson’s bond is false?
a. The bond maturing in year 2000 has a yield to maturity greater than 63⁄8%.
b. The closing price of the bond with the shortest time to maturity on the day before this
quotation was $1,003.25.
c. This annual coupon for the bond maturing in year 2013 is $75.00.
d. The current yield on the Wilson’s bond with the longest time to maturity was 7.29%.
e. None of the above.
Quotations as of 4 P.M. Eastern Time
Friday, April 23, 1999
Bonds
Current Yield
Vol
Close
Net
WILSON 6 3/8 99
?
76
100 3/8
 1/8
WILSON 6 3/8 00
?
9
98
1/2
WILSON 7 1/4 02
?
39
103 5/8
1/8
WILSON 7 1/2 13
?
225
102 7/8
 1/8
5.13 A common stock pays a current dividend of $2. The dividend is expected to grow at an 
8-percent annual rate for the next three years; then it will grow at 4 percent in perpetuity.
The appropriate discount rate is 12 percent. What is the price of this stock?
5.14 Use the following February 12, 1998, WSJ quotation for Merck & Co. to answer the next
question.
52 Weeks
Yld
Vol
Net
Hi
Lo
Stock
Sym
Div
% PE
100s
Hi
Lo
Close
Chg
120.
80.19
Merck
MRK 1.80
?
30
195111
115.9
114.5
115
1.25
Which of the following statements is false?
a. The dividend yield was about 1.6%.
b. The 52 weeks’ trading range was $39.81.
c. The closing price per share on February 10, 1998, was $113.75.
d. The closing price per share on February 11, 1998, was $115.
e. The earnings per share were about $3.83.
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
127

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
134
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
5.15 Use the following stock quote.
52 Weeks
Yld
Vol
Net
Hi
Lo
Stock
Sym
Div
% PE
100s
Hi
Lo
Close
Chg
126.25
72.50 Citigroup CCI
1.30 1.32 16
20925
98.4
97.8
98.13
.13
The expected growth rate in Citigroup’s dividends is 7% a year. Suppose you use the
discounted dividend model to price Citigroup’s shares. The constant growth dividend
model would suggest that the required return on the Citigroup’s stock is what?
5.16 You own $100,000 worth of Smart Money stock. At the end of the first year you receive a
dividend of $2 per share; at the end of year 2 you receive a $4 dividend. At the end of year
3 you sell the stock for $50 per share. Only ordinary (dividend) income is taxed at the rate
of 28 percent. Taxes are paid at the time dividends are received. The required rate of return
is 15 percent. How many shares of stock do you own?
5.17 Consider the stock of Davidson Company that will pay an annual dividend of $2 in the
coming year. The dividend is expected to grow at a constant rate of 5 percent permanently.
The market requires a 12-percent return on the company.
a. What is the current price of a share of the stock?
b. What will the stock price be 10 years from today?
5.18 Easy Type, Inc., is one of a myriad of companies selling word processor programs. 
Their newest program will cost $5 million to develop. First-year net cash flows will be 
$2 million. As a result of competition, profits will fall by 2 percent each year thereafter.
All cash inflows will occur at year-end. If the market discount rate is 14 percent, what is
the value of this new program?
5.19 Whizzkids, Inc., is experiencing a period of rapid growth. Earnings and dividends per
share are expected to grow at a rate of 18 percent during the next two years, 15 percent in
the third year, and at a constant rate of 6 percent thereafter. Whizzkids’ last dividend,
which has just been paid, was $1.15. If the required rate of return on the stock is 12
percent, what is the price of a share of the stock today?
5.20 Allen, Inc., is expected to pay an equal amount of dividends at the end of the first two
years. Thereafter, the dividend will grow at a constant rate of 4 percent indefinitely. The
stock is currently traded at $30. What is the expected dividend per share for the next year
if the required rate of return is 12 percent?
5.21 Calamity Mining Company’s reserves of ore are being depleted, and its costs of
recovering a declining quantity of ore are rising each year. As a result, the company’s
earnings are declining at the rate of 10 percent per year. If the dividend per share that is
about to be paid is $5 and the required rate of return is 14 percent, what is the value of the
firm’s stock?
5.22 The Highest Potential, Inc., will pay a quarterly dividend per share of $1 at the end of each
of the next 12 quarters. Subsequently, the dividend will grow at a quarterly rate of 0.5
percent indefinitely. The appropriate rate of return on the stock is 10 percent. What is the
current stock price?
Estimates of Parameters in the Dividend-Discount Model
5.23 The newspaper reported last week that Bradley Enterprises earned $20 million. The report
also stated that the firm’s return on equity remains on its historical trend of 14 percent.
Bradley retains 60 percent of its earnings. What is the firm’s growth rate of earnings?
What will next year’s earnings be?
5.24 Von Neumann Enterprises has just reported earnings of $10 million, and it plans to retain 75
percent of its earnings. The company has 1.25 million shares of common stock outstanding.
The stock is selling at $30. The historical return on equity (ROE) of 12 percent is expected
to continue in the future. What is the required rate of return on the stock?
128
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
135
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Growth Opportunities
5.25 Rite Bite Enterprises sells toothpicks. Gross revenues last year were $3 million, and total
costs were $1.5 million. Rite Bite has 1 million shares of common stock outstanding.
Gross revenues and costs are expected to grow at 5 percent per year. Rite Bite pays no
income taxes, and all earnings are paid out as dividends.
a. If the appropriate discount rate is 15 percent and all cash flows are received at year’s
end, what is the price per share of Rite Bite stock?
b. The president of Rite Bite decided to begin a program to produce toothbrushes. The
project requires an immediate outlay of $15 million. In one year, another outlay of 
$5 million will be needed. The year after that, net cash inflows will be $6 million. This
profit level will be maintained in perpetuity. What effect will undertaking this project
have on the price per share of the stock?
5.26 California Electronics, Inc., expects to earn $100 million per year in perpetuity if it does
not undertake any new projects. The firm has an opportunity that requires an investment of
$15 million today and $5 million in one year. The new investment will begin to generate
additional annual earnings of $10 million two years from today in perpetuity. The firm has
20 million shares of common stock outstanding, and the required rate of return on the
stock is 15 percent.
a. What is the price of a share of the stock if the firm does not undertake the new project?
b. What is the value of the growth opportunities resulting from the new project?
c. What is the price of a share of the stock if the firm undertakes the new project?
5.27 Suppose Smithfield Foods, Inc., has just paid a dividend of $1.40 per share. Sales and
profits for Smithfield Foods are expected to grow at a rate of 5% per year. Its dividend is
expected to grow by the same rate. If the required return is 10%, what is the value of a
share of Smithfield Foods?
5.28 In order to buy back its own shares, Pennzoil Co. has decided to suspend its dividends for
the next two years. It will resume its annual cash dividend of $2.00 a share 3 years from
now. This level of dividends will be maintained for one more year. Thereafter, Pennzoil is
expected to increase its cash dividend payments by an annual growth rate of 6% per year
forever. The required rate of return on Pennzoil’s stock is 16%. According to the
discounted dividend model, what should Pennzoil’s current share price be?
5.29 Four years ago, Ultramar Diamond Inc. paid a dividend of $0.80 per share. This year
Ultramar paid a dividend of $1.66 per share. It is expected that the company will pay
dividends growing at the same rate for the next 5 years. Thereafter, the growth rate will
level at 8% per year. The required return on this stock is 18%. According to the discounted
dividend model, what would Ultramar’s cash dividend be in 7 years?
a. $2.86
b. $3.06
c. $3.68
d. $4.30
e. $4.82
5.30 The Webster Co. has just paid a dividend of $5.25 per share. The company will increase its
dividend by 15 percent next year and will then reduce its dividend growth by 3 percent
each year until it reaches the industry average of 5 percent growth, after which the
company will keep a constant growth, forever. The required rate of return for the Webster
Co. is 14 percent. What will a share of stock sell for?
Price-Earnings Ratio
5.31 Consider Pacific Energy Company and U.S. Bluechips, Inc., both of which reported recent
earnings of $800,000 and have 500,000 shares of common stock outstanding. Assume both
firms have the same required rate of return of 15 percent a year.
a. Pacific Energy Company has a new project that will generate cash flows of $100,000
each year in perpetuity. Calculate the P/E ratio of the company.
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
129

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
136
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
b. U.S. Bluechips has a new project that will increase earnings by $200,000 in the coming
year. The increased earnings will grow at 10 percent a year in perpetuity. Calculate the
P/E ratio of the firm.
5.32 (Challenge Question) Lewin Skis Inc. (today) expects to earn $4.00 per share for each of
the future operating periods (beginning at time 1) if the firm makes no new investments
(and returns the earnings as dividends to the shareholders). However, Clint Williams,
President and CEO, has discovered an opportunity to retain (and invest) 25% of the
earnings beginning three years from today (starting at time 3). This opportunity to invest
will continue (for each period) indefinitely. He expects to earn 40% (per year) on this new
equity investment (ROE of 40), the return beginning one year after each investment is
made. The firm’s equity discount rate is 14% throughout.
a. What is the price per share (now at time 0) of Lewin Skis Inc. stock without making the
new investment?
b. If the new investment is expected to be made, per the preceding information, what
would the value of the stock (per share) be now (at time 0)?
c. What is the expected capital gain yield for the second period, assuming the proposed
investment is made? What is the expected capital gain yield for the second period if the
proposed investment is not made?
d. What is the expected dividend yield for the second period if the new investment is
made? What is the expected dividend yield for the second period if the new investment
is not made?
Appendix 5A THE TERM STRUCTURE OF INTEREST RATES,
SPOT RATES, AND YIELD TO MATURITY
In the main body of this chapter, we have assumed that the interest rate is constant over all
future periods. In reality, interest rates vary through time. This occurs primarily because in-
flation rates are expected to differ through time.
To illustrate, we consider two zero-coupon bonds. Bond A is a one-year bond and bond
B is a two-year bond. Both have face values of $1,000. The one-year interest rate, r1, is 8
percent. The two-year interest rate, r2, is 10 percent. These two rates of interest are exam-
ples of spot rates. Perhaps this inequality in interest rates occurs because inflation is ex-
pected to be higher over the second year than over the first year. The two bonds are depicted
in the following time chart.
0
Year 1
1
Year 2
2
Bond A
8%
$1,000
Bond B
10%
$1,000
We can easily calculate the present value for bond A and bond B as
PVA  $925.93 
PVB  $826.45 
Of course, if PVA and PVB were observable and the spot rates were not, we could determine
the spot rates using the PV formula, because
PVA  $925.93 
→r1  8%
$1,000
1  r1
$1,000
1.10 2
$1,000
1.08
130
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
137
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
and
PVB  $826.45 
→r2  10%
Now we can see how the prices of more complicated bonds are determined. Try to do the
next example. It illustrates the difference between spot rates and yields to maturity.
EXAMPLE
Given the spot rates, r1 equals 8 percent and r2 equals 10 percent, what should a
5-percent coupon, two-year bond cost? The cash flows C1 and C2 are illustrated in
the following time chart.
0
Year 1
1
Year 2
2
8%
$50
10%
$1,050
The bond can be viewed as a portfolio of zero-coupon bonds with one- and two-
year maturities. Therefore,
PV 
(A.1)
We now want to calculate a single rate for the bond. We do this by solving for y in
the following equation:
$914.06 
(A.2)
In (A.2), y equals 9.95 percent. As mentioned in the chapter, we call y the yield to
maturity on the bond. Solving for y for a multiyear bond is generally done by
means of trial and error.14 While this can take much time with paper and pencil, it
is virtually instantaneous on a hand-held calculator.
It is worthwhile to contrast equation (A.1) and equation (A.2). In (A.1), we
use the marketwide spot rates to determine the price of the bond. Once we get the
bond price, we use (A.2) to calculate its yield to maturity. Because equation (A.1)
employs two spot rates whereas only one appears in (A.2), we can think of yield
to maturity as some sort of average of the two spot rates.15
Using the above spot rates, the yield to maturity of a two-year coupon bond
whose coupon rate is 12 percent and PV equals $1,036.73 can be determined by
$1,036.73 
→r  9.89%
As these calculations show, two bonds with the same maturity will usually have
different yields to maturity if the coupons differ.
$120
1  r  $1,120
1  r 2
$50
1  y  $1,050
1  y 2
$50
1  0.08 
$1,050
1  0.10 2   $914.06
$1,000
1  r2 2
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
131
14The quadratic formula may be used to solve for y for a two-year bond. However, formulas generally do not
apply for longer-term bonds.
15Yield to maturity is not a simple average of r1 and r2. Rather, financial economists speak of it as a time-
weighted average of r1 and r2.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
138
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Graphing the Term Structure
The term structure describes the relationship of spot rates
with different maturities. Figure 5A.1 graphs a particular term structure. In Figure 5A.1 the
spot rates are increasing with longer maturities, that is, r3  r2  r1. Graphing the term
structure is easy if we can observe spot rates. Unfortunately, this can be done only if there
are enough zero-coupon government bonds.
A given term structure, such as that in Figure 5A.1, exists for only a moment in time,
say, 10:00 A.M., July 30, 1990. Interest rates are likely to change in the next minute, so that
a different (though quite similar) term structure would exist at 10:01 A.M.
• What is the difference between a spot interest rate and the yield to maturity?
Explanations of the Term Structure
Figure 5A.1 showed one of many possible relationships between the spot rate and maturity.
We now want to explore the relationship in more detail. We begin by defining a new term,
the forward rate. Next, we relate this forward rate to future interest rates. Finally, we con-
sider alternative theories of the term structure.
Definition of Forward Rate
Earlier in this appendix, we developed a two-year example
where the spot rate over the first year is 8 percent and the spot rate over the two years is 10 per-
cent. Here, an individual investing $1 in a two-year zero-coupon bond would have $1  (1.10)2
in two years.
In order to pursue our discussion, it is worthwhile to rewrite16
$1  (1.10)2  $1  1.08  1.1204
(A.3)
132
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
r3
r2
r1
Spot interest
rates (%)
Time (years)
I FIGURE 5A.1 The Term Structure of Interest Rates
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?
1612.04 percent is equal to
when rounding is performed after four digits.
1.10 2
1.08
 1

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
139
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Equation (A.3) tells us something important about the relationship between one- and two-
year rates. When an individual invests in a two-year zero-coupon bond yielding 10 percent,
his wealth at the end of two years is the same as if he received an 8-percent return over the
first year and a 12.04-percent return over the second year. This hypothetical rate over the
second year, 12.04 percent, is called the forward rate. Thus, we can think of an investor with
a two-year zero-coupon bond as getting the one-year spot rate of 8 percent and locking in
12.04 percent over the second year. This relationship is presented in Figure 5A.2.
More generally, if we are given spot rates, r1 and r2, we can always determine the for-
ward rate, f2, such that:
(1  r2)2  (1  r1)  (1  f2)
(A.4)
We solve for f2, yielding:
f2 
 1
(A.5)
EXAMPLE
If the one-year spot rate is 7 percent and the two-year spot rate is 12 percent, what is f2?
We plug in equation (A.5), yielding
f2 
 1  17.23%
Consider an individual investing in a two-year zero-coupon bond yielding 
12 percent. We say it is as if he receives 7 percent over the first year and simultane-
ously locks in 17.23 percent over the second year. Note that both the one-year spot rate
and the two-year spot rate are known at date 0. Because the forward rate is calculated
from the one-year and two-year spot rates, it can be calculated at date 0 as well.
Forward rates can be calculated over later years as well. The general formula is
fn 
 1
(A.6)
where fn is the forward rate over the nth year, rn is the n-year spot rate, and rn1 is
the spot rate for n  1 years.
1  rn n
1  rn1 n1
1.12 2
1.07
1  r2 2
1  r1
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
133
0
1
2
Year 1
Year 2
10%
$1
$1  (1.10)2 = $1.21
Date
Date
Date
I FIGURE 5A.2 Breakdown of a Two-Year Spot Rate into a One-Year
Spot Rate and Forward Rate over the Second Year
With a two-year spot rate of 10 percent, investor in two-year bond receives
$1.21 at date 2.
This is the same return as if investor received the spot rate of 8 percent over the
first year and 12.04-percent return over the second year.
$1 ——— 8% ———— $1.08 ——12.04% ——$1  1.08  1.1204  $1.21
Because both the one-year spot rate and the two-year spot rate are known at date 0,
the forward rate over the second year can be calculated at date 0.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
140
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
Assume the following set of rates:
Year
Spot Rate
1
5%
2
6
3
7
4
6
What are the forward rates over each of the four years?
The forward rate over the first year is, by definition, equal to the one-year spot
rate. Thus, we do not generally speak of the forward rate over the first year. The
forward rates over the later years are
f2  
 1  7.01%
f3  
 1  9.03%
f4  
 1  3.06%
An individual investing $1 in the two-year zero-coupon bond receives
$1.1236 [$1  (1.06)2] at date 2. He can be viewed as receiving the one-year
spot rate of 5 percent over the first year and receiving the forward rate of 7.01
percent over the second year. An individual investing $1 in a three-year zero-
coupon bond receives $1.2250 [$1  (1.07)3] at date 3. She can be viewed as
receiving the two-year spot rate of 6 percent over the first two years and re-
ceiving the forward rate of 9.03 percent over the third year. An individual in-
vesting $1 in a four-year zero-coupon bond receives $1.2625 [$1  (1.06)4] at
date 4. He can be viewed as receiving the three-year spot rate of 7 percent over
the first three years and receiving the forward rate of 3.06 percent over the
fourth year.
Note that all of the four spot rates in this problem are known at date 0. Be-
cause the forward rates are calculated from the spot rates, they can be determined
at date 0 as well.
The material in this appendix is likely to be difficult for a student exposed to term struc-
ture for the first time. It helps to state what the student should know at this point. Given
equations (A.5) and (A.6), a student should be able to calculate a set of forward rates given
a set of spot rates. This can simply be viewed as a mechanical computation. In addition to
the calculations, a student should understand the intuition of Figure 5A.2.
We now turn to the relationship between the forward rate and the expected spot rates
in the future.
Estimating the Price of a Bond at a Future Date
In the example from the body of this
chapter, we considered zero-coupon bonds paying $1,000 at maturity and selling at a
discount prior to maturity. We now wish to change the example slightly. Now, each bond
1.06 4
1.07 3
1.07 3
1.06 2
1.06 2
1.05
134
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
141
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
initially sells at par so that payment at maturity is above $1,000.17 Keeping the spot rates
at 8 percent and 10 percent, we have
Date
Date
Date
0
Year 1
1
Year 2
2
Bond A
$1,000
8%
$1,080
Initial
Payment
purchase
at
price
maturity
Bond B
$1,000
10%
$1,210
Initial
Payment
purchase
at
price
maturity
One-year spot rate from date 1 to
?
date 2 is unknown as of date 0.
The payments at maturity are $1,080 and $1,210 for the one- and two-year zero-coupon
bonds, respectively. The initial purchase price of $1,000 for each bond is determined as
$1,000 
$1,000 
We refer to the one-year bond as bond A and the two-year bond as bond B.
There will be a different one-year spot rate when date 1 arrives. This will be the spot
rate from date 1 to date 2. We can also call it the spot rate over year 2. This spot rate is not
known as of date 0. For example, should the rate of inflation rise between date 0 and date
1, the spot rate over year 2 would likely be high. Should the rate of inflation fall between
date 0 and date 1, the spot rate over year 2 would likely be low.
Now that we have determined the price of each bond at date 0, we want to determine
what the price of each bond will be at date 1. The price of the one-year bond (bond A) must
be $1,080 at date 1, because the payment at maturity is made then. The hard part is deter-
mining what the price of the two-year bond (bond B) will be at that time.
Suppose we find that, on date 1, the one-year spot rate from date 1 to date 2 is 6 per-
cent. We state that this is the one-year spot rate over year 2. This means that I can invest
$1,000 at date 1 and receive $1,060 ($1,000  1.06) at date 2. Because one year has already
passed for bond B, the bond has only one year left. Because bond B pays $1,210 at date 2,
its value at date 1 is
$1,141.51 
(A.7)
Note that no one knew ahead of time the price that bond B would sell for on date 1, because
no one knew that the one-year spot rate over year 2 would be 6 percent.
$1,210
1.06
$1,210
1.10 2
$1,080
1.08
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
135
17This change in assumptions simplifies our presentation but does not alter any of our conclusions.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
142
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Suppose the one-year spot rate beginning at date 1 turned out not to be 6 percent, but
to be 7 percent instead. This means that I can invest $1,000 at date 1 and receive $1,070
($1,000  1.07) at date 2. In this case, the value of bond B at date 1 would be
$1,130.84 
(A.8)
Finally, suppose that the one-year spot rate at date 1 turned out to be neither 6 per-
cent nor 7 percent, but 14 percent instead. This means that I can invest $1,000 at date 1
and receive $1,140 ($1,000  1.14) at date 2. In this case, the value of bond B at date 1
would be
$1,061.40 
The above possible bond prices are represented in Table 5A.1. The price that bond B will sell
for on date 1 is not known before date 1 since the one-year spot rate prevailing over year 2
is not known until date 1.
It is important to reemphasize that, although the forward rate is known at date 0, the
one-year spot rate beginning at date 1 is unknown ahead of time. Thus, the price of bond B
at date 1 is unknown ahead of time. Prior to date 1, we can speak only of the amount that
bond B is expected to sell for on date 1. We write this as18
The Amount that Bond B Is Expected to Sell for on Date 1:
(A.9)
It is worthwhile making two points now. First, because each individual is different, the
expected value of bond B differs across individuals. Later we will speak of a consensus
expected value across investors. Second, equation (A.9) represents one’s forecast of the
price that the bond will be selling for on date 1. The forecast is made ahead of time, that
is, on date 0.
$1,210
1  Spot rate expected over year 2
$1,210
1.14
$1,210
1.07
136
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
I TABLE 5A.1
Price of Bond B at Date 1 as a Function of Spot Rate
over Year 2
Price of Bond B at Date 1
Spot Rate over Year 2
$1,141.51 
6%
$1,130.84 
7%
$1,061.40 
14%
$1,210
1.14
$1,210
1.07
$1,210
1.06
18Technically, equation (A.9) is only an approximation due to Jensen’s inequality. That is, expected values of
However, we ignore this very minor issue in the rest of the analysis.
$1,210
1  Spot rate   
$1,210
1  Spot rate expected over year 2

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
143
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The Relationship between Forward Rate over Second Year and
Spot Rate Expected over Second Year
Given a forecast of bond B’s price, an investor can choose one of two strategies at date 0:
I. Buy a one-year bond. Proceeds at date 1 would be
$1,080  $1,000  1.08
(A.10)
II. Buy a two-year bond but sell at date 1. Expected proceeds would be
(A.11)
Given our discussion of forward rates, we can rewrite (A.11) as
(A.12)
(Remember that 12.04 percent was the forward rate over year 2; i.e., f2  12.04%.)
Under what condition will the return from strategy I equal the expected return from
strategy II? In other words, under what condition will formula (A.10) equal formula (A.12)?
The two strategies will yield the same expected return only when
12.04%  Spot rate expected over year 2
(A.13)
In other words, if the forward rate equals the expected spot rate, one would expect to earn
the same return over the first year whether one
1. invested in a one-year bond, or
2. invested in a two-year bond but sold after one year.
The Expectations Hypothesis
Equation (A.13) seems fairly reasonable. That is, it is reasonable that investors would set
interest rates in such a way that the forward rate would equal the spot rate expected by the
marketplace a year from now.19 For example, imagine that individuals in the marketplace
do not concern themselves with risk. If the forward rate, f2, is less than the spot rate ex-
pected over year 2, individuals desiring to invest for one year would always buy a one-year
bond. That is, our work above shows that an individual investing in a two-year bond but
planning to sell at the end of one year would expect to earn less than if he simply bought a
one-year bond.
Equation (A.13) was stated for the specific case where the forward rate was 12.04 per-
cent. We can generalize this to:
Expectations Hypothesis:
f2  Spot rate expected over year 2
(A.14)
Equation (A.14) says that the forward rate over the second year is set to the spot rate that
people expect to prevail over the second year. This is called the expectations hypothesis. It
states that investors will set interest rates such that the forward rate over the second year is
equal to the one-year spot rate expected over the second year.
$1,000  1.08  1.1204
1  Spot rate expected over year 2
$1,000  1.10 2
1  Spot rate expected over year 2
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
137
19Of course, each individual will have different expectations, so (A.13) cannot hold for all individuals. However,
financial economists generally speak of a consensus expectation. This is the expectation of the market as a whole.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
144
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Liquidity-Preference Hypothesis
At this point, many students think that equation (A.14) must hold. However, note that we
developed (A.14) by assuming that investors were risk-neutral. Suppose, alternatively, that
investors are adverse to risk.
Which strategy would appear more risky for an individual who wants to invest for one year?
I. Invest in a one-year bond.
II. Invest in a two-year bond but sell at the end of one year.
Strategy (I) has no risk because the investor knows that the rate of return must be r1. Conversely,
strategy (II) has much risk; the final return is dependent on what happens to interest rates.
Because strategy (II) has more risk than strategy (I), no risk-averse investor will choose
strategy (II) if both strategies have the same expected return. Risk-averse investors can have
no preference for one strategy over the other only when the expected return on strategy (II)
is above the return on strategy (I). Because the two strategies have the same expected re-
turn when f2 equals the spot rate expected over year 2, strategy (II) can only have a higher
rate of return when
Liquidity-Preference Hypothesis:
f2  Spot rate expected over year 2
(A.15)
That is, in order to induce investors to hold the riskier two-year bonds, the market sets
the forward rate over the second year to be above the spot rate expected over the second
year. Equation (A.15) is called the liquidity-preference hypothesis.
We developed the entire discussion by assuming that individuals are planning to invest
over one year. We pointed out that for these types of individuals, a two-year bond has extra
risk because it must be sold prematurely. What about those individuals who want to invest
for two years? (We call these people investors with a two-year time horizon.)
They could choose one of the following strategies:
III. Buy a two-year zero-coupon bond.
IV. Buy a one-year bond. When the bond matures, immediately buy another one-year bond.
Strategy (III) has no risk for an investor with a two-year time horizon, because the pro-
ceeds to be received at date 2 are known as of date 0. However, strategy (IV) has risk since
the spot rate over year 2 is unknown at date 0. It can be shown that risk-averse investors will
prefer neither strategy (III) nor strategy (IV) over the other when
f2 
 Spot rate expected over year 2
(A.16)
Note that the assumption of risk aversion gives contrary predictions. Relationship
(A.15) holds for a market dominated by investors with a one-year time horizon.
Relationship (A.16) holds for a market dominated by investors with a two-year time hori-
zon. Financial economists have generally argued that the time horizon of the typical in-
vestor is generally much shorter than the maturity of typical bonds in the marketplace. Thus,
economists view (A.15) as the best depiction of equilibrium in the bond market with risk-
averse investors.
However, do we have a market of risk-neutral or risk-averse investors? In other words,
can the expectations hypothesis of equation (A.14) or the liquidity-preference hypothesis
of equation (A.15) be expected to hold? As we will learn later in this book, economists view
investors as being risk-averse for the most part. Yet economists are never satisfied with a ca-
sual examination of a theory’s assumptions. To them, empirical evidence of a theory’s pre-
dictions must be the final arbiter.
138
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
5. How to Value Bonds and 
Stocks
145
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
There has been a great deal of empirical evidence on the term structure of interest rates.
Unfortunately (perhaps fortunately for some students), we will not be able to present the ev-
idence in any detail. Suffice it to say that, in our opinion, the evidence supports the liquidity-
preference hypothesis over the expectations hypothesis. One simple result might give 
students the flavor of this research. Consider an individual choosing between one of the fol-
lowing two strategies:
I. Invest in a 1-year bond.
II′. Invest in a 20-year bond but sell at the end of 1 year.
(Strategy (II′) is identical to strategy (II), except that a 20-year bond is substituted for
a 2-year bond.)
The expectations hypothesis states that the expected returns on both strategies are iden-
tical. The liquidity-preference hypothesis states that the expected return on strategy (II′)
should be above the expected return on strategy (I). Though no one knows what returns are
actually expected over a particular time period, actual returns from the past may allow us
to infer expectations. The results from January 1926 to December 1999 are illuminating.
The average yearly return on strategy (I) is 3.8 percent and 5.5 percent on strategy (II′) 
over this time period.20, 21 This evidence is generally considered to be consistent with the
liquidity-preference hypothesis and inconsistent with the expectations hypothesis.
• Define the forward rate.
• What is the relationship between the one-year spot rate, the two-year spot rate, and the
forward rate over the second year?
• What is the expectations hypothesis?
• What is the liquidity-preference hypothesis?
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
A.1 The appropriate discount rate for cash flows received one year from today is 10 percent. The
appropriate annual discount rate for cash flows received two years from today is 11 percent.
a. What is the price of a two-year bond that pays an annual coupon of 6 percent?
b. What is the yield to maturity of this bond?
A.2 The one-year spot rate equals 10 percent and the two-year spot rate equals 8 percent. What
should a 5-percent coupon two-year bond cost?
A.3 If the one-year spot rate is 9 percent and the two-year spot rate is 10 percent, what is the
forward rate?
A.4 Assume the following spot rates:
Maturity
Spot Rates (%)
1
5
2
7
3
10
What are the forward rates over each of the three years?
Chapter 5
How to Value Bonds and Stocks
139
20Taken from Stocks, Bonds, Bills and Inflation 2000 Yearbook (Chicago: Ibbotson Associates, Inc.). Ibbotson
Associates annually updates work by Roger G. Ibbotson and Rex A. Sinquefield.
21It is important to note that strategy (II′) does not involve buying a 20-year bond and holding it to maturity.
Rather, it consists of buying a 20-year bond and selling it 1 year later, that is, when it has become a 19-year
bond. This round-trip transaction occurs 74 times in the 74-year sample from January 1926 to December 1999.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
146
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Some Alternative
Investment Rules
CHAPTER 6
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
C
hapter 4 examined the relationship between $1 today and $1 in the future. For ex-
ample, a corporate project generating a set of cash flows can be valued by discount-
ing these flows, an approach called the net-present-value (NPV) approach. While we
believe that the NPV approach is the best one for evaluating capital budgeting projects, our
treatment would be incomplete if we ignored alternative methods. This chapter examines
these alternative methods. We first consider the NPV approach as a benchmark. Next we ex-
amine three alternatives—payback, accounting rates of return, and internal rate of return.
6.1 WHY USE NET PRESENT VALUE?
Before examining competitors of the NPV approach, we should ask: Why consider using
NPV in the first place? Answering this question will put the rest of this chapter in a proper
perspective. There are actually a number of arguments justifying the use of NPV, and you
may have already seen the detailed one of Chapter 3. We now present one of the simplest
justifications through an example.
EXAMPLE
The Alpha Corporation is considering investing in a riskless project costing $100.
The project pays $107 at date 1 and has no other cash flows. The managers of the
firm might contemplate one of two strategies:
1. Use $100 of corporate cash to invest in the project. The $107 will be paid as a
dividend in one period.
2. Forgo the project and pay the $100 of corporate cash as a dividend today.
If strategy 2 is employed, the stockholder might deposit the dividend in the bank
for one period. Because the project is riskless and lasts for one period, the stock-
holder would prefer strategy 1 if the bank interest rate was below 7 percent. In
other words, the stockholder would prefer strategy 1 if strategy 2 produced less
than $107 by the end of the year.
The comparison can easily be handled by NPV analysis. If the interest rate is 6 percent,
the NPV of the project is
$0.94   $100  $107
1.06

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
147
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 6
Some Alternative Investment Rules
141
Because the NPV is positive, the project should be accepted. Of course, a bank interest rate
above 7 percent would cause the project’s NPV to be negative, implying that the project
should be rejected.
Thus, our basic point is:
Accepting positive NPV projects benefits the stockholders.
Although we used the simplest possible example, the results could easily be applied to
more plausible situations. If the project lasted for many periods, we would calculate the
NPV of the project by discounting all the cash flows. If the project were risky, we could de-
termine the expected return on a stock whose risk is comparable to that of the project. This
expected return would serve as the discount rate.
Having shown that NPV is a sensible approach, how can we tell whether alternative ap-
proaches are as good as NPV? The key to NPV is its three attributes:
1. NPV Uses Cash Flows Cash flows from a project can be used for other corporate pur-
poses (e.g., dividend payments, other capital-budgeting projects, or payments of corporate
interest). By contrast, earnings are an artificial construct. While earnings are useful to ac-
countants, they should not be used in capital budgeting because they do not represent cash.
2. NPV Uses All the Cash Flows of the Project Other approaches ignore cash flows be-
yond a particular date; beware of these approaches.
3. NPV Discounts the Cash Flows Properly Other approaches may ignore the time value
of money when handling cash flows. Beware of these approaches as well.
6.2 THE PAYBACK PERIOD RULE
Defining the Rule
One of the most popular alternatives to NPV is the payback period rule. Here is how the
payback period rule works.
Consider a project with an initial investment of $50,000. Cash flows are $30,000,
$20,000, and $10,000 in the first three years, respectively. These flows are illustrated in
Figure 6.1. A useful way of writing down investments like the preceding is with the notation:
($50,000, $30,000, $20,000, $10,000)
The minus sign in front of the $50,000 reminds us that this is a cash outflow for the investor,
and the commas between the different numbers indicate that they are received—or if they
are cash outflows, that they are paid out—at different times. In this example we are assum-
ing that the cash flows occur one year apart, with the first one occurring the moment we de-
cide to take on the investment.
Cash inflow
Time
Cash outflow
–$50,000
0
1
2
3
$30,000
$20,000
$10,000
I FIGURE 6.1 Cash Flows of an Investment Project

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
148
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The firm receives cash flows of $30,000 and $20,000 in the first two years, which add
up to the $50,000 original investment. This means that the firm has recovered its investment
within two years. In this case two years is the payback period of the investment.
The payback period rule for making investment decisions is simple. A particular cut-
off time, say two years, is selected. All investment projects that have payback periods of
two years or less are accepted and all of those that pay off in more than two years—if at
all—are rejected.
Problems with the Payback Method
There are at least three problems with the payback method. To illustrate the first two prob-
lems, we consider the three projects in Table 6.1. All three projects have the same three-
year payback period, so they should all be equally attractive—right?
Actually, they are not equally attractive, as can be seen by a comparison of different
pairs of projects.
Problem 1: Timing of Cash Flows within the Payback Period
Let us compare project
A with project B. In years 1 through 3, the cash flows of project A rise from $20 to $50 while
the cash flows of project B fall from $50 to $20. Because the large cash flow of $50 comes
earlier with project B, its net present value must be higher. Nevertheless, we saw above that
the payback periods of the two projects are identical. Thus, a problem with the payback pe-
riod is that it does not consider the timing of the cash flows within the payback period. This
shows that the payback method is inferior to NPV because, as we pointed out earlier, the
NPV approach discounts the cash flows properly.
Problem 2: Payments after the Payback Period
Now consider projects B and C, which
have identical cash flows within the payback period. However, project C is clearly preferred
because it has the cash flow of $60,000 in the fourth year. Thus, another problem with the
payback method is that it ignores all cash flows occurring after the payback period. This
flaw is not present with the NPV approach because, as we pointed out earlier, the NPV ap-
proach uses all the cash flows of the project. The payback method forces managers to have
an artificially short-term orientation, which may lead to decisions not in the shareholders’
best interests.
Problem 3: Arbitrary Standard for Payback Period
We do not need to refer to Table
6.1 when considering a third problem with the payback approach. When a firm uses the
NPV approach, it can go to the capital market to get the discount rate. There is no compa-
rable guide for choosing the payback period, so the choice is arbitrary to some extent.
142
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
I TABLE 6.1 Expected Cash Flows for Projects A through C ($)
Year
A
B
C
0
100
100
100
1
20
50
50
2
30
30
30
3
50
20
20
4
60
60
60,000
Payback period (years)
3
3
3

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
149
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Managerial Perspective
The payback rule is often used by large and sophisticated companies when making rela-
tively small decisions. The decision to build a small warehouse, for example, or to pay for
a tune-up for a truck is the sort of decision that is often made by lower-level management.
Typically a manager might reason that a tune-up would cost, say, $200, and if it saved $120
each year in reduced fuel costs, it would pay for itself in less than two years. On such a ba-
sis the decision would be made.
Although the treasurer of the company might not have made the decision in the same
way, the company endorses such decision making. Why would upper management condone
or even encourage such retrograde activity in its employees? One answer would be that it
is easy to make decisions using the payback rule. Multiply the tune-up decision into 50 such
decisions a month, and the appeal of this simple rule becomes clearer.
Perhaps most important though, the payback rule also has some desirable features for
managerial control. Just as important as the investment decision itself is the company’s abil-
ity to evaluate the manager’s decision-making ability. Under the NPV rule, a long time may
pass before one decides whether or not a decision was correct. With the payback rule we
know in two years whether the manager’s assessment of the cash flows was correct.
It has also been suggested that firms with very good investment opportunities but no avail-
able cash may justifiably use the payback method. For example, the payback method could be
used by small, privately held firms with good growth prospects but limited access to the capi-
tal markets. Quick cash recovery may enhance the reinvestment possibilities for such firms.
Notwithstanding all of the preceding rationale, it is not surprising to discover that as
the decision grows in importance, which is to say when firms look at bigger projects, the
NPV becomes the order of the day. When questions of controlling and evaluating the man-
ager become less important than making the right investment decision, the payback period
is used less frequently. For the big-ticket decisions, such as whether or not to buy a machine,
build a factory, or acquire a company, the payback rule is seldom used.
Summary of the Payback Period Rule
To summarize, the payback period is not the same as the NPV rule and is therefore con-
ceptually wrong. With its arbitrary cutoff date and its blindness to cash flows after that date,
it can lead to some flagrantly foolish decisions if it is used too literally. Nevertheless, be-
cause it is so simple, companies often use it as a screen for making the myriad of minor in-
vestment decisions they continually face.
Although this means that you should be wary of trying to change rules like the payback
period when you encounter them in companies, you should probably be careful not to fall into
the sloppy financial thinking they represent. After this course you would do your company a
disservice if you ever used the payback period instead of the NPV when you had a choice.
• List the problems of the payback period rule.
• What are some advantages?
6.3 THE DISCOUNTED PAYBACK PERIOD RULE
Aware of the pitfalls of the payback approach, some decision makers use a variant called the
discounted payback period rule. Under this approach, we first discount the cash flows. Then
we ask how long it takes for the discounted cash flows to equal the initial investment.
Chapter 6
Some Alternative Investment Rules
143
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
150
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
For example, suppose that the discount rate is 10 percent and the cash flows on a proj-
ect are given by
($100, $50, $50, $20)
This investment has a payback period of two years, because the investment is paid back in
that time.
To compute the project’s discounted payback period, we first discount each of the cash
flows at the 10-percent rate. In discounted terms, then, the cash flows look like
[$100, $50/1.1, $50/(1.1)2, $20/(1.1)3]  ($100, $45.45, $41.32, $15.03)
The discounted payback period of the original investment is simply the payback period for
these discounted cash flows. The payback period for the discounted cash flows is slightly less
than three years since the discounted cash flows over the three years are $101.80 ($45.45 
$41.32  $15.03). As long as the cash flows are positive, the discounted payback period will
never be smaller than the payback period, because discounting will lower the cash flows.
At first glance the discounted payback may seem like an attractive alternative, but on
closer inspection we see that it has some of the same major flaws as the payback. Like pay-
back, discounted payback first requires us to make a somewhat magical choice of an arbi-
trary cutoff period, and then it ignores all of the cash flows after that date.
If we have already gone to the trouble of discounting the cash flows, any small appeal
to simplicity or to managerial control that payback may have, has been lost. We might just
as well add up the discounted cash flows and use the NPV to make the decision. Although
discounted payback looks a bit like the NPV, it is just a poor compromise between the pay-
back method and the NPV.
6.4 THE AVERAGE ACCOUNTING RETURN
Defining the Rule
Another attractive and fatally flawed approach to making financial decisions is the average
accounting return. The average accounting return is the average project earnings after
taxes and depreciation, divided by the average book value of the investment during its life.
In spite of its flaws, the average accounting return method is worth examining because it is
used frequently in the real world.
EXAMPLE
Consider a company that is evaluating whether or not to buy a store in a newly built
mall. The purchase price is $500,000. We will assume that the store has an esti-
mated life of five years and will need to be completely scrapped or rebuilt at the end
of that time. The projected yearly sales and expense figures are shown in Table 6.2.
It is worth looking carefully at this table. In fact, the first step in any project assessment
is a careful look at the projected cash flows. When the store starts up, it is estimated that
first-year sales will be $433,333 and that, after expenses, the before-tax cash flow will be
$233,333. After the first year, sales are expected to rise and expenses are expected to fall,
resulting in a before-tax cash flow of $300,000. After that, competition from other stores
and the loss in novelty will drop before-tax cash flow to $166,667, $100,000, and $33,333,
respectively, in the next three years.
144
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
151
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
To compute the average accounting return (AAR) on the project, we divide the aver-
age net income by the average amount invested. This can be done in three steps.
Step One: Determining Average Net Income
The net income in any year is the net cash
flow minus depreciation and taxes. Depreciation is not a cash outflow.1 Rather, it is a charge
reflecting the fact that the investment in the store becomes less valuable every year.
We assume the project has a useful life of five years, at which time it will be worthless.
Because the initial investment is $500,000 and because it will be worthless in five years, we
will assume that it loses value at the rate of $100,000 each year. This steady loss in value of
$100,000 is called straight-line depreciation. We subtract both depreciation and taxes from
before-tax cash flow to derive the net income, as shown in Table 6.2. The net income over the
five years is $100,000 in the first year, $150,000 in year 2, $50,000 in year 3, zero in year 4,
and $50,000 in the last year. The average net income over the life of the project is therefore
Average Net Income:
[$100,000  $150,000  $50,000  $0  ($50,000)]/5  $50,000
Step Two: Determining Average Investment
We stated earlier that, due to depreciation, the
investment in the store becomes less valuable every year. Because depreciation is $100,000
per year, the value at the end of year zero is $500,000, the value at the end of year 1 is $400,000
and so on. What is the average value of the investment over the life of the investment?
The mechanical calculation is
Average Investment:
($500,000  $400,000  $300,000  $200,000  $100,000  $0)/6  $250,000 (6.1)
Chapter 6
Some Alternative Investment Rules
145
I TABLE 6.2 Projected Yearly Revenue and Costs for Average
Accounting Return
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
Revenue
$433,333
$450,000
$266,667
$200,000
$133,333
Expenses
200,000
150,000
100,000
100,000
100,000
________
________
________
________
________
Before-tax 
cash flow
233,333
300,000
166,667
100,000
33,333
Depreciation
100,000
100,000
100,000
100,000
100,000
________
________
________
________
________
Earnings 
before taxes
133,333
200,000
66,667
0
66,667
Taxes (Tc  0.25)*
33,333
50,000
16,667
0
16,667
________
________
________
________
________
Net income
$100,000
$150,000
$ 50,000
$
0
$ 50,000
*Corporate tax rate  Tc. The tax rebate in year 5 of $16,667 occurs if the rest of the firm is profitable. Here,
the loss in the project reduces taxes of entire firm.
AAR  $50,000
$250,000  20%
Average investment  $500,000  0
2
 $250,000
Average net income  $100,000  150,000  50,000  0  50,000
5
 $50,000
1Depreciation will be treated in more detail in the next chapter.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
152
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
We divide by 6 and not 5, because $500,000 is what the investment is worth at the begin-
ning of the five years and $0 is what it is worth at the beginning of the sixth year. In other
words, there are six terms in the parenthesis of equation (6.1).
Step Three: Determining AAR
The average return is simply
If the firm had a targeted accounting rate of return greater than 20 percent, the project would
be rejected, and if its targeted return were less than 20 percent, it would be accepted.
Analyzing the Average Accounting Return Method
By now you should be able to see what is wrong with the AAR method of making invest-
ment decisions.
The most important flaw in the AAR method is that it does not use the right raw mate-
rials. It uses the net income figures and the book value of the investment (from the accoun-
tant’s books) to figure out whether to take the investment. Conversely, the NPV rule uses
cash flows.
Second, AAR takes no account of timing. In the previous example, the AAR would
have been the same if the $100,000 net income in the first year had occurred in the last year.
However, delaying an inflow for five years would have made the investment less attractive
under the NPV rule as well as by the common sense of the time value of money. That is, the
NPV approach discounts properly.
Third, just as the payback period requires an arbitrary choice of a cutoff date, the AAR
method offers no guidance on what the right targeted rate of return should be. It could be
the discount rate in the market. But then again, because the AAR method is not the same as
the present value method, it is not obvious that this would be the right choice.
Like the payback method, the AAR (and variations of it) is frequently used as a
“backup” to discounted cash flow methods. Perhaps this is so because it is easy to calculate
and uses accounting numbers readily available from the firm’s accounting system.
• What are the three steps in calculating AAR?
• What are some flaws with the AAR approach?
6.5 THE INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
Now we come to the most important alternative to the NPV approach, the internal rate of
return, universally known as the IRR. The IRR is about as close as you can get to the NPV
without actually being the NPV. The basic rationale behind the IRR is that it tries to find a
single number that summarizes the merits of a project. That number does not depend on the
interest rate that prevails in the capital market. That is why it is called the internal rate of
return; the number is internal or intrinsic to the project and does not depend on anything ex-
cept the cash flows of the project.
For example, consider the simple project ($100, $110) in Figure 6.2. For a given rate,
the net present value of this project can be described as
(6.2)
NPV   $100  $110
1  r
AAR  $50,000
$250,000  20%
146
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
153
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
where r is the discount rate.
What must the discount rate be to make the NPV of the project equal to zero?
We begin by using an arbitrary discount rate of 0.08, which yields
(6.3)
Since the NPV in equation (6.3) is positive, we now try a higher discount rate, say, 0.12.
This yields
(6.4)
Since the NPV in equation (6.4) is negative, we lower the discount rate to, say, 0.10. This
yields
(6.5)
This trial-and-error procedure tells us that the NPV of the project is zero when r equals 10
percent.2 Thus, we say that 10 percent is the project’s internal rate of return (IRR). In gen-
eral, the IRR is the rate that causes the NPV of the project to be zero. The implication of this
exercise is very simple. The firm should be equally willing to accept or reject the project if
the discount rate is 10 percent. The firm should accept the project if the discount rate is be-
low 10 percent. The firm should reject the project if the discount rate is above 10 percent.
The general investment rule is clear:
Accept the project if IRR is greater than the discount rate. Reject the project if IRR is less than
the discount rate.
We refer to this as the basic IRR rule. Now we can try the more complicated example in
Figure 6.3.
As we did in equations (6.3) to (6.5), we use trial and error to calculate the internal rate
of return. We try 20 percent and 30 percent, yielding
Discount Rate
NPV
20%
$10.65
30
18.39
0   $100  $110
1.10
 $1.79   $100  $110
1.12
$1.85   $100  $110
1.08
Chapter 6
Some Alternative Investment Rules
147
Cash inflow
Time
Cash outflow
–$100
0
1
$110
I FIGURE 6.2 Cash Flows for a Simple Project
2Of course, we could have directly solved for r in equation (6.2) after setting NPV equal to zero. However, with
a long series of cash flows, one cannot generally directly solve for r. Instead, one is forced to use a trial-and-
error method similar to that in (6.3), (6.4), and (6.5).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
154
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
After much more trial and error, we find that the NPV of the project is zero when the dis-
count rate is 23.37 percent. Thus, the IRR is 23.37 percent. With a 20-percent discount rate
the NPV is positive and we would accept it. However, if the discount rate were 30 percent,
we would reject it.
Algebraically, IRR is the unknown in the following equation:3
Figure 6.4 illustrates what it means to find the IRR for a project. The figure plots the
NPV as a function of the discount rate. The curve crosses the horizontal axis at the IRR of
23.37 percent because this is where the NPV equals zero.
0   $200 
$100
1  IRR 
$100
1  IRR 2 
$100
1  IRR 3
148
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
Cash inflow
Time
Cash outflow
–$200
0
1
2
3
$100
$100
$100
I FIGURE 6.3 Cash Flows for a More Complex Project
10
20
30
40
IRR
23.37
–$18.39
$0
$10.65
$100
Discount
rate (%)
NPV
I FIGURE 6.4 Net Present Value (NPV) and Discount Rates for a 
More Complex Project
The NPV is positive for discount rates below the IRR and negative
for discount rates above the IRR.
3One can derive the IRR directly for a problem with an initial outflow and either one or two subsequent inflows.
In the case of two subsequent inflows, the quadratic formula is needed. In general, however, only trial and error
will work for an outflow and three or more subsequent inflows. Hand calculators calculate IRR by trial and
error, though at lightning speed.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
155
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
It should also be clear that the NPV is positive for discount rates below the IRR and
negative for discount rates above the IRR. This means that if we accept projects like this
one when the discount rate is less than the IRR, we will be accepting positive NPV proj-
ects. Thus, the IRR rule will coincide exactly with the NPV rule.
If this were all there were to it, the IRR rule would always coincide with the NPV rule.
This would be a wonderful discovery because it would mean that just by computing the IRR
for a project we would be able to tell where it ranks among all of the projects we are con-
sidering. For example, if the IRR rule really works, a project with an IRR of 20 percent will
always be at least as good as one with an IRR of 15 percent.
But the world of finance is not so kind. Unfortunately, the IRR rule and the NPV rule
are the same only for examples like the ones above. Several problems with the IRR ap-
proach occur in more complicated situations.
• How does one calculate the IRR of a project?
6.6 PROBLEMS WITH THE IRR APPROACH
Definition of Independent and Mutually Exclusive Projects
An independent project is one whose acceptance or rejection is independent of the ac-
ceptance or rejection of other projects. For example, imagine that McDonald’s is consid-
ering putting a hamburger outlet on a remote island. Acceptance or rejection of this unit
is likely to be unrelated to the acceptance or rejection of any other restaurant in their sys-
tem. The remoteness of the outlet in question insures that it will not pull sales away from
other outlets.
Now consider the other extreme, mutually exclusive investments. What does it mean
for two projects, A and B, to be mutually exclusive? You can accept A or you can accept B
or you can reject both of them, but you cannot accept both of them. For example, A might
be a decision to build an apartment house on a corner lot that you own, and B might be a
decision to build a movie theater on the same lot.
We now present two general problems with the IRR approach that affect both inde-
pendent and mutually exclusive projects. Next, we deal with two problems affecting mutu-
ally exclusive projects only.
Two General Problems Affecting Both Independent and
Mutually Exclusive Projects
We begin our discussion with project A, which has the following cash flows:
($100, $130)
The IRR for project A is 30 percent. Table 6.3 provides other relevant information on the
project. The relationship between NPV and the discount rate is shown for this project in
Figure 6.5. As you can see, the NPV declines as the discount rate rises.
Problem 1: Investing or Financing?
Now consider project B, with cash flows of
($100, $130)
Chapter 6
Some Alternative Investment Rules
149
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
156
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
These cash flows are exactly the reverse of the flows for project A. In project B, the firm re-
ceives funds first and then pays out funds later. While unusual, projects of this type do ex-
ist. For example, consider a corporation conducting a seminar where the participants pay in
advance. Because large expenses are frequently incurred at the seminar date, cash inflows
precede cash outflows.
Consider our trial-and-error method to calculate IRR:
As with project A, the internal rate of return is 30 percent. However, notice that the net
present value is negative when the discount rate is below 30 percent. Conversely, the net
present value is positive when the discount rate is above 30 percent. The decision rule is ex-
actly the opposite of our previous result. For this type of a project, the rule is 
Accept the project when IRR is less than the discount rate. Reject the project when IRR is
greater than the discount rate.
This unusual decision rule follows from the graph of project B in Figure 6.5. The curve is
upward sloping, implying that NPV is positively related to the discount rate.
The graph makes intuitive sense. Suppose that the firm wants to obtain $100 immedi-
ately. It can either (1) conduct project B or (2) borrow $100 from a bank. Thus, the project
is actually a substitute for borrowing. In fact, because the IRR is 30 percent, taking on proj-
ect B is tantamount to borrowing at 30 percent. If the firm can borrow from a bank at, say,
only 25 percent, it should reject the project. However, if a firm can only borrow from a bank
at, say, 35 percent, it should accept the project. Thus, project B will be accepted if and only
if the discount rate is above the IRR.4
This should be contrasted with project A. If the firm has $100 of cash to invest, it can
either (1) conduct project A or (2) lend $100 to the bank. The project is actually a substitute
for lending. In fact, because the IRR is 30 percent, taking on project A is tantamount to lend-
ing at 30 percent. The firm should accept project A if the lending rate is below 30 percent.
Conversely, the firm should reject project A if the lending rate is above 30 percent.
 $3.70   $100  $130
1.35
 $0   $100  $130
1.30
  $4   $100  $130
1.25
150
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
I TABLE 6.3 The Internal Rate of Return and Net Present Value
Project A
Project B
Project C
_______________
_______________
_________________
Dates:
0
1
2
0
1
2
0
1
2
Cash flows
$100
$130
$100
$130
$100
$230
$132
IRR
30%
30%
10%
and
20%
NPV @ 10%
$18.2
$18.2
0
Accept if market rate

30%
30%
10%
but

20%
Financing or investing
Investing
Financing
Mixture
4This paragraph implicitly assumes that the cash flows of the project are risk-free. In this way, we can treat the
borrowing rate as the discount rate for a firm needing $100. With risky cash flows, another discount rate would be
chosen. However, the intuition behind the decision to accept when IRR is less than the discount rate would still apply.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
157
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Because the firm initially pays out money with project A but initially receives money with
project B, we refer to project A as an investing-type project and project B as a financing-type
project. Investing-type projects are the norm. Because the IRR rule is reversed for a financing-
type project, we view this type of project as a problem—unless it is understood properly.
Problem 2: Multiple Rates of Return
Suppose the cash flows from a project are
($100, $230, $132)
Because this project has a negative cash flow, a positive cash flow, and another negative
cash flow, we say that the project’s cash flows exhibit two changes of signs, or “flip-flops.”
While this pattern of cash flows might look a bit strange at first, many projects require out-
flows of cash after receiving some inflows. An example would be a strip-mining project. The
first stage in such a project is the initial investment in excavating the mine. Profits from op-
erating the mine are received in the second stage. The third stage involves a further invest-
ment to reclaim the land and satisfy the requirements of environmental-protection legisla-
tion. Cash flows are negative at this stage.
Projects financed by lease arrangements also produce negative cash flows followed by
positive ones. We study leasing carefully in a later chapter, but for now we will give you a
hint. Using leases for financing can sometimes bring substantial tax advantages. These ad-
vantages are often sufficient to make an otherwise bad investment have positive cash flows
following an initial outlay. But after a while the tax advantages decline or run out. The cash
flows turn negative when this occurs.
It is easy to verify that this project has not one but two IRRs, 10 percent and 20 percent.5 In
a case like this, the IRR does not make any sense. What IRR are we to use, 10 percent or 20 per-
cent? Because there is no good reason to use one over the other, IRR simply cannot be used here.
Chapter 6
Some Alternative Investment Rules
151
NPV
NPV
Discount
rate (%)
Project A
Project B
NPV
Project C
Discount
rate (%)
Discount
rate (%)
$30
0
30
–$30
30
10
20
–$100
–$2
Approaches
– 100 when
r→ ∞
I FIGURE 6.5 Net Present Value and Discount Rates for Projects A, B, and C
5The calculations are
and
Thus, we have multiple rates of return.
 0   $100  $191.67  $91.67
  $100  $230
1.2  $132
1.2 2
 0   $100  $209.09  $109.09
  $100  $230
1.1  $132
1.1 2
Project A has a cash outflow at date 0 followed by a cash inflow at date 1. Its NPV is negatively related to the discount rate.
Project B has a cash inflow at date 0 followed by a cash outflow at date 1. Its NPV is positively related to the discount rate.
Project C has two changes of sign in its cash flows. It has an outflow at date 0, an inflow at date 1, and an outflow at date 2.
Projects with more than one change of sign can have multiple rates of return.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
158
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Of course, we should not feel too worried about multiple rates of return. After all, we
can always fall back on NPV. Figure 6.5 plots the NPV for this project C as a function of
the different discount rates. As it shows, the NPV is zero at both 10 percent and 20 percent.
Furthermore, the NPV is positive for discount rates between 10 percent and 20 percent and
negative outside of this range.
This example generates multiple internal rates of return because both an inflow and an
outflow occur after the initial investment. In general, these flip-flops or changes in sign pro-
duce multiple IRRs. In theory, a cash flow stream with M changes in sign can have up to M
positive internal rates of return.6 As we pointed out, projects whose cash flows change sign
repeatedly can occur in the real world.
Are We Ever Safe from the Multiple-IRR Problem?
If the first cash flow for a project is
negative—because it is the initial investment—and if all of the remaining flows are posi-
tive, there can be only a single, unique IRR, no matter how many periods the project lasts.
This is easy to understand by using the concept of the time value of money. For example, it
is easy to verify that project A in Table 6.3 has an IRR of 30 percent, because using a 30-
percent discount rate gives
NPV  $100  $130/(1.3)
 0
How do we know that this is the only IRR? Suppose that we were to try a discount rate
greater than 30 percent. In computing the NPV, changing the discount rate does not change
the value of the initial cash flow of $100 because that cash flow is not discounted. But
raising the discount rate can only lower the present value of the future cash flows. In other
words, because the NPV is zero at 30 percent, any increase in the rate will push the NPV
into the negative range. Similarly, if we try a discount rate of less than 30 percent, the over-
all NPV of the project will be positive. Though this example has only one positive flow, the
above reasoning still implies a single, unique IRR if there are many inflows (but no out-
flows) after the initial investment.
If the initial cash flow is positive—and if all of the remaining flows are negative—there
can only be a single, unique IRR. This result follows from reasoning similar to that above.
Both these cases have only one change of sign or flip-flop in the cash flows. Thus, we are
safe from multiple IRRs whenever there is only one sign change in the cash flows.
152
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
6Those of you who are steeped in algebra might have recognized that finding the IRR is like finding the root of
a polynomial equation. For a project with cash flows of (C0, . . . , Cr), the formula for computing the IRR
requires us to find the interest rate, r, that makes
If we let the symbol x stand for the discount factor,
x  1/(1  r)
then the formula for the IRR becomes
Finding the IRR, then, is the same as finding the roots of this polynomial equation. If a particular value x* is a
root of the equation, then, because
x  1/(1  r)
it follows that there is an associated IRR:
r*  (1/x*)  1
From the theory of polynomials, it is well known that an nth-order polynomial has n roots. Each such root
that is positive and less than 1 can have a sensible IRR associated with it. Applying Descartes’s rules of signs
gives the result that a stream of n cash flows can have up to M positive IRRs, where M is the number of changes
of sign for the cash flows.
NPV  C0  C1x  C2x2   . . .  CTxT  0
NPV  C0  C11  r   . . .  CT1  r T  0

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
159
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
General Rules
The following chart summarizes our rules:7
Number
IRR
NPV
Flows
of IRRs
Criterion
Criterion
First cash flow is negative
1
Accept if IRR  r
Accept if NPV  0
and all remaining cash
Reject if IRR 
 r
Reject if NPV 
 0
flows are positive.
First cash flow is positive
1
Accept if IRR 
 r
Accept if NPV  0
and all remaining cash
Reject if IRR  r
Reject if NPV 
 0
flows are negative.
Some cash flows after first
May be
No valid IRR
Accept if NPV  0
are positive and some
more
Reject if NPV 
 0
cash flows after first are
than 1
negative.
Note that the NPV criterion is the same for each of the three cases. In other words, NPV
analysis is always appropriate. Conversely, the IRR can be used only in certain cases. When it
comes to NPV, the preacher’s words, “You just can’t lose with the stuff I use,” clearly apply.
Problems Specific to Mutually Exclusive Projects
As mentioned earlier, two or more projects are mutually exclusive if the firm can, at most,
accept only one of them. We now present two problems dealing with the application of the
IRR approach to mutually exclusive projects. These two problems are quite similar, though
logically distinct.
The Scale Problem
A professor we know motivates class discussions on this topic with
the statement: “Students, I am prepared to let one of you choose between two mutually ex-
clusive ‘business’ propositions. Opportunity 1—You give me $1 now and I’ll give you
$1.50 back at the end of the class period. Opportunity 2—You give me $10 and I’ll give you
$11 back at the end of the class period. You can only choose one of the two opportunities.
And you cannot choose either opportunity more than once. I’ll pick the first volunteer.”
Which would you choose? The correct answer is opportunity 2.8 To see this, look at the
following chart:
Cash Flow at
Cash Flow
End of Class
at Beginning
(90 minutes
of Class
later)
NPV9
IRR
Opportunity 1
$1
$1.50
$0.50
50%
Opportunity 2
10
11.00
1.00
10
As we have stressed earlier in the text, one should choose the opportunity with the high-
est NPV. This is opportunity 2 in the example. Or, as one of the professor’s students ex-
plained it: “I’m bigger than the professor, so I know I’ll get my money back. And I have
$10 in my pocket right now so I can choose either opportunity. At the end of the class,
Chapter 6
Some Alternative Investment Rules
153
7IRR stands for internal rate of return, NPV stands for net present value, and r stands for discount rate.
8The professor uses real money here. Though many students have done poorly on the professor’s exams over the
years, no student ever chose opportunity 1. The professor claims that his students are “money players.”
9We assume a zero rate of interest because his class lasted only 90 minutes. It just seemed like a lot longer.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
160
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
I’ll be able to play two rounds of my favorite electronic game with opportunity 2 and still
have my original investment, safe and sound.10 The profit on opportunity 1 buys only one
round.”
We believe that this business proposition illustrates a defect with the internal rate of re-
turn criterion. The basic IRR rule says take opportunity 1, because the IRR is 50 percent.
The IRR is only 10 percent for opportunity 2.
Where does IRR go wrong? The problem with IRR is that it ignores issues of scale.
While opportunity 1 has a greater IRR, the investment is much smaller. In other words, the
high percentage return on opportunity 1 is more than offset by the ability to earn at least a
decent return11 on a much bigger investment under opportunity 2.
Since IRR seems to be misguided here, can we adjust or correct it? We illustrate how
in the next example.
EXAMPLE
Stanley Jaffe and Sherry Lansing have just purchased the rights to Corporate Fi-
nance: The Motion Picture. They will produce this major motion picture on either
a small budget or a big budget. The estimated cash flows are
Cash Flow
Cash Flow
NPV
at Date 0
at Date 1
@ 25%
IRR
Small budget
$10 million
$40 million
$22 million
300%
Large budget
25 million
65 million
27 million
160
Because of high risk, a 25-percent discount rate is considered appropriate. Sherry
wants to adopt the large budget because the NPV is higher. Stanley wants to adopt
the small budget because the IRR is higher. Who is right?
For the reasons espoused in the classroom example above, NPV is correct. Hence,
Sherry is right. However, Stanley is very stubborn where IRR is concerned. How can Sherry
justify the large budget to Stanley using the IRR approach?
This is where incremental IRR comes in. She calculates the incremental cash flows
from choosing the large budget instead of the small budget as
Cash Flow
Cash Flow
at Date 0
at Date 1
(in $ millions)
(in $ millions)
Incremental cash flows from
choosing large budget
25  (10)  15
65  40  25
instead of small budget
This chart shows that the incremental cash flows are $15 million at date 0 and $25 mil-
lion at date 1. Sherry calculates incremental IRR as
Formula for Calculating the Incremental IRR:
0   $15 million  $25 million
1  IRR
154
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
10At press time for this text, electronic games cost $0.50 apiece.
11A 10-percent return is more than decent over a 90-minute interval!

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
161
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
IRR equals 66.67 percent in this equation. Sherry says that the incremental IRR is
66.67 percent. Incremental IRR is the IRR on the incremental investment from choosing the
large project instead of the small project.
In addition, we can calculate the NPV of the incremental cash flows:
NPV of Incremental Cash Flows:
We know the small-budget picture would be acceptable as an independent project since its
NPV is positive. We want to know whether it is beneficial to invest an additional $15 million
in order to make the large-budget picture instead of the small-budget picture. In other words,
is it beneficial to invest an additional $15 million in order to receive an additional $25 million
next year? First, the above calculations show the NPV on the incremental investment to be pos-
itive. Second, the incremental IRR of 66.67 percent is higher than the discount rate of 25 per-
cent. For both reasons, the incremental investment can be justified. The second reason is what
Stanley needed to hear to be convinced. Hence, the large-budget movie should be made.
In review, we can handle this example (or any mutually exclusive example) in one of
three ways:
1. Compare the NPVs of the two choices. The NPV of the large-budget picture is greater than
the NPV of the small-budget picture, that is, $27 million is greater than $22 million.
2. Compare the incremental NPV from making the large-budget picture instead of the
small-budget picture. Because the incremental NPV equals $5 million, we choose the
large-budget picture.
3. Compare the incremental IRR to the discount rate. Because the incremental IRR is 66.67
percent and the discount rate is 25 percent, we take the large-budget picture.
All three approaches always give the same decision. However, we must not compare the
IRRs of the two pictures. If we did we would make the wrong choice, that is, we would ac-
cept the small-budget picture.
One final note here. Students often ask which project should be subtracted from the
other in calculating incremental flows. Notice that we are subtracting the smaller project’s
cash flows from the bigger project’s cash flows. This leaves an outflow at date 0. We then
use the basic IRR rule on the incremental flows.12
The Timing Problem
Next we illustrate another, but very similar, problem with using the
IRR approach to evaluate mutually exclusive projects.
EXAMPLE
Suppose that the Kaufold Corporation has two alternative uses for a warehouse. It
can store toxic waste containers (investment A) or electronic equipment (invest-
ment B). The cash flows are as follows:
NPV
Year:
0
1
2
3
@0%
@10% @15%
IRR
Investment A
$10,000 $10,000 $1,000 $ 1,000
$2,000
$669
$ 109 16.04%
Investment B
10,000
1,000
1,000
12,000
4,000
751
484
12.94
 $15 million  $25 million
1.25
 $5 million
Chapter 6
Some Alternative Investment Rules
155
12Alternatively, we could have subtracted the larger project’s cash flows from the smaller project’s cash flows.
This would have left an inflow at date 0, making it necessary to use the IRR rule for financing situations. This
would work but we find it more confusing.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
162
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
We find that the NPV of investment B is higher with low discount rates, and the
NPV of investment A is higher with high discount rates. This is not surprising if you
look closely at the cash flow patterns. The cash flows of A occur early, whereas the
cash flows of B occur later. If we assume a high discount rate, we favor investment
A because we are implicitly assuming that the early cash flow (for example, $10,000
in year 1) can be reinvested at that rate. Because most of investment B’s cash flows
occur in year 3, B’s value is relatively high with low discount rates.
The patterns of cash flow for both projects appear in Figure 6.6. Project A has an NPV
of $2,000 at a discount rate of zero. This is calculated by simply adding up the cash flows
without discounting them. Project B has an NPV of $4,000 at the zero rate. However, the
NPV of project B declines more rapidly as the discount rate increases than does the NPV
of project A. As we mentioned above, this occurs because the cash flows of B occur later.
Both projects have the same NPV at a discount rate of 10.55 percent. The IRR for a project
is the rate at which the NPV equals zero. Because the NPV of B declines more rapidly, B
actually has a lower IRR.
As with the movie example presented above, we can select the better project with one
of three different methods:
1. Compare NPVs of the Two Projects. Figure 6.6 aids our decision. If the discount rate is
below 10.55 percent, one should choose project B because B has a higher NPV. If the
rate is above 10.55 percent, one should choose project A because A has a higher NPV.
2. Compare Incremental IRR to Discount Rate. The above method employed NPV. Another
way of determining that B is a better project is to subtract the cash flows of A from the
cash flows of B and then to calculate the IRR. This is the incremental IRR approach we
spoke of earlier.
The incremental cash flows are
NPV of Incremental
Cash Flows
Incremental
Year:
0
1
2
3
IRR
@0%
@10%
@15%
B  A
0
$9,000
0
$11,000
10.55%
$2,000
$83
$593
This chart shows that the incremental IRR is 10.55 percent. In other words, the NPV on
the incremental investment is zero when the discount rate is 10.55 percent. Thus, if the
relevant discount rate is below 10.55 percent, project B is preferred to project A. If the
relevant discount rate is above 10.55 percent, project A is preferred to project B.13
3. Calculate NPV on Incremental Cash Flows. Finally, one could calculate the NPV on the
incremental cash flows. The chart that appears with the previous method displays these
NPVs. We find that the incremental NPV is positive when the discount rate is either 0
percent or 10 percent. The incremental NPV is negative if the discount rate is 15 per-
cent. If the NPV is positive on the incremental flows, one should choose B. If the NPV
is negative, one should choose A.
156
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
13In this example, we first showed that the NPVs of the two projects are equal when the discount rate is 10.55
percent. We next showed that the incremental IRR is also 10.55 percent. This is not a coincidence; this equality
must always hold. The incremental IRR is the rate that causes the incremental cash flows to have zero NPV. The
incremental cash flows have zero NPV when the two projects have the same NPV.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
163
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
In summary, the same decision is reached whether one (a) compares the NPVs of the
two projects, (b) compares the incremental IRR to the relevant discount rate, or (c) exam-
ines the NPV of the incremental cash flows. However, as mentioned earlier, one should not
compare the IRR of project A with the IRR of project B.
We suggested earlier that one should subtract the cash flows of the smaller project
from the cash flows of the bigger project. What do we do here since the two projects have
the same initial investment? Our suggestion in this case is to perform the subtraction so
that the first nonzero cash flow is negative. In the Kaufold Corporation example, we
achieved this by subtracting A from B. In this way, we can still use the basic IRR rule for
evaluating cash flows.
The preceding examples illustrate problems with the IRR approach in evaluating mu-
tually exclusive projects. Both the professor-student example and the motion-picture ex-
ample illustrate the problem that arises when mutually exclusive projects have different ini-
tial investments. The Kaufold Corp. example illustrates the problem that arises when
mutually exclusive projects have different cash flow timing. When working with mutually
exclusive projects, it is not necessary to determine whether it is the scale problem or the
timing problem that exists. Very likely both occur in any real-world situation. Instead, the
practitioner should simply use either an incremental IRR or an NPV approach.
Redeeming Qualities of the IRR
The IRR probably survives because it fills a need that the NPV does not. People seem to
want a rule that summarizes the information about a project in a single rate of return. This
single rate provides people with a simple way of discussing projects. For example, one man-
ager in a firm might say to another, “Remodeling the north wing has a 20-percent IRR.”
To their credit, however, companies that employ the IRR approach seem to understand
its deficiencies. For example, companies frequently restrict managerial projections of cash
flows to be negative at the beginning and strictly positive later. Perhaps, then, the ability of
the IRR approach to capture a complex investment project in a single number and the ease
of communicating that number explain the survival of the IRR.
Chapter 6
Some Alternative Investment Rules
157
NPVA > NPVB
$4,000
Discount
rate (%)
2,000
0
–484
Net present value ($)
NPVB > NPVA
10.55 12.94 16.04
Project A
Project B
I FIGURE 6.6 Net Present Value and the Internal Rate of Return for
Mutually Exclusive Projects

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
164
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
A Test
To test your knowledge, consider the following two statements:
1. You must know the discount rate to compute the NPV of a project but you compute the
IRR without referring to the discount rate.
2. Hence, the IRR rule is easier to apply than the NPV rule because you don’t use the dis-
count rate when applying IRR.
The first statement is true. The discount rate is needed to compute NPV. The IRR is com-
puted by solving for the rate where the NPV is zero. No mention is made of the discount
rate in the mere computation. However, the second statement is false. In order to apply IRR,
you must compare the internal rate of return with the discount rate. Thus, the discount rate
is needed for making a decision under either the NPV or IRR approach.
• What is the difference between independent projects and mutually exclusive projects?
• What are two problems with the IRR approach that apply to both independent and mutu-
ally exclusive projects?
• What are two additional problems applying only to mutually exclusive projects?
6.7 THE PROFITABILITY INDEX
Another method that is used to evaluate projects is called the profitability index. It is the
ratio of the present value of the future expected cash flows after initial investment divided
by the amount of the initial investment. The profitability index can be represented as
Profitability index (PI)
EXAMPLE
Hiram Finnegan, Inc., applies a 12-percent discount rate to two investment op-
portunities.
PV @12% of Cash
Flows Subsequent
to Initial
Profit-
Investment
ability
NPV @ 12%
Project
C0
C1
C2
($000,000)
Index
($000,000)
1
20
70
10
70.5
3.53
50.5
2
10
15
40
45.3
4.53
35.3
For example, the profitability index is calculated for project 1 as follows. The present
value of the cash flows after the initial investment are
(6.6)
$70.5  $70
1.12 
$10
1.12 2
 PV of cash flows subsequent to initial investment
Initial investment
158
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
Cash Flows
($000,000)
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
165
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The profitability index is calculated by dividing the result of equation (6.6) by the initial in-
vestment of $20. This yields
We consider three possibilities:
1. Independent Projects. We first assume that we have two independent projects. Accord-
ing to the NPV criterion, both projects should be accepted since NPV is positive in each
case. The NPV is positive whenever the profitability index (PI) is greater than one. Thus,
the PI decision rule is
Accept an independent project if PI  1.
Reject if PI 
 1.
2. Mutually Exclusive Projects. Let us assume that you can now only accept one project.
NPV analysis says accept project 1 because this project has the bigger NPV. Because
project 2 has the higher PI, the profitability index leads to the wrong selection.
The problem with the profitability index for mutually exclusive projects is the same as
the scale problem with the IRR that we mentioned earlier. Project 2 is smaller than project 1.
Because the PI is a ratio, this index misses the fact that project 1 has a larger investment than
project 2 has. Thus, like IRR, PI ignores differences of scale for mutually exclusive projects.
However, like IRR, the flaw with the PI approach can be corrected using incre-
mental analysis. We write the incremental cash flows after subtracting project 2 from
project 1 as follows:
PV @12% of Cash
Flows Subsequent
Profit-
NPV
to Initial Investment
ability
@ 12%
Project
C0
C1
C2
($000,000)
Index
($000,000)
1  2
10
55
30
25.2
2.52
15.2
Because the profitability index on the incremental cash flows is greater than 1.0, we
should choose the bigger project, that is, project 1. This is the same decision we get with
the NPV approach.
3. Capital Rationing. The two cases above implicitly assumed that the firm could always
attract enough capital to make any profitable investments. Now we consider the case
when a firm does not have enough capital to fund all positive NPV projects. This is the
case of capital rationing.
Imagine that the firm has a third project, as well as the first two. Project 3 has the fol-
lowing cash flows:
PV @12% of Cash
Flows Subsequent
Profit-
NPV
to Initial Investment
ability
@ 12%
Project
C0
C1
C2
($000,000)
Index
($000,000)
3
10
5
60
43.4
4.34
33.4
Further, imagine that (a) the projects of Hiram Finnegan, Inc., are independent, but (b)
the firm has only $20 million to invest. Because project 1 has an initial investment of $20
million, the firm cannot select both this project and another one. Conversely, because
3.53  $70.5
$20
Chapter 6
Some Alternative Investment Rules
159
Cash Flows
($000,000)
Cash Flows
($000,000)

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
166
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
projects 2 and 3 have initial investments of $10 million each, both these projects can be
chosen. In other words, the cash constraint forces the firm to choose either project 1 or
projects 2 and 3.
What should the firm do? Individually, projects 2 and 3 have lower NPVs than project
1 has. However, when the NPVs of projects 2 and 3 are added together, they are higher than
the NPV of project 1. Thus, common sense dictates that projects 2 and 3 shall be accepted.
What does our conclusion have to say about the NPV rule or the PI rule? In the case of
limited funds, we cannot rank projects according to their NPVs. Instead, we should rank
them according to the ratio of present value to initial investment. This is the PI rule. Both
project 2 and project 3 have higher PI ratios than does project 1. Thus, they should be ranked
ahead of project 1 when capital is rationed.
The usefulness of the profitability index under capital rationing can be explained in
military terms. The Pentagon speaks highly of a weapon with a lot of “bang for the buck.”
In capital budgeting, the profitability index measures the bang (the dollar return) for the
buck invested. Hence, it is useful for capital rationing.
It should be noted that the profitability index does not work if funds are also limited
beyond the initial time period. For example, if heavy cash outflows elsewhere in the firm
were to occur at date 1, project 3 might need to be rejected. In other words, the profitabil-
ity index cannot handle capital rationing over multiple time periods.
• How does one calculate a project’s profitability index?
• How is the profitability index applied to independent projects, mutually exclusive proj-
ects, and situations of capital rationing?
6.8 THE PRACTICE OF CAPITAL BUDGETING
Not all firms use capital budgeting procedures based on discounted cash flows. Some firms
use the payback method, and others use the accounting-rate-of-return method. Most stud-
ies find that the most frequently used capital budgeting technique for large corporations is
either the internal rate of return (IRR) or the net present value (NPV) or a combination of
both.14 Table 6.4 summarizes the results of a survey of large U.S. multinational firms and
shows that over 80 percent of the responding firms use either NPV or IRR. Payback is rarely
used as a primary method but it is the most frequently used secondary method.15 A recent
survey of capital budgeting techniques used by a very large sample of U.S. and Canadian
firms is summarized in Table 6.5. Graham and Harvey find about 75 percent of all firms use
the NPV and IRR in capital budgeting. They report large-dividend-paying firms with high
leverage are more likely to use the NPV and IRR than small firms with low debt ratios that
pay no dividends.16
Graham and Harvey find that the payback period is used by more than one-half of all firms.
The payback criterion is more frequently used by small firms and by CEOs without an MBA. 
160
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
14This conclusion is consistent with the results of L.Schall and G. Sundem, “Capital Budgeting Methods and
Risk: A Further Analysis,” Financial Management (Spring 1980). However, they report a tendency for firms to
use less sophisticated capital budgeting methods in highly uncertain environments.
15This result is similar to that of L. Schall, G. Sundem, and W. R. Gerjsbeek, Jr., “Survey and Analysis of
Capital Budgeting Methods,” Journal of Finance (March 1978). They found that 86 percent of their respondents
used discounted cash flow, but only 16 percent used it exclusively.
16John R. Graham and Campbell R. Harvey, “The Theory and Practice of Corporate Finance: Evidence from the
Field,” Journal of Financial Economics (forthcoming).
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
167
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 6
Some Alternative Investment Rules
161
I TABLE 6.4 Percentage of Large Multinational Responding Firms
Using Different Types of Capital Budgeting Methods*
Primary
Secondary
Technique
Technique
Average accounting return (AAR)
10.7%
14.6%
Payback period (PP)
5.0
37.6
Internal rate of return (IRR)
65.3
14.6
Net present value (NPV)
16.5
30.0
Other
2.5
3.2
_____
_____
100
%
100
%
*The number of responding firms is 121.
Source: M. T. Stanley and S. B. Block, “A Survey of Multinational Capital Budgeting,” The Finance Review
(March 1984), pp. 36–51.
I TABLE 6.5 Percent of CFOs Who Always or Almost Always Use a
Given Technique
% Always
or Almost Always
Internal rate of return (IRR)
75.6%
Net present value (NPV)
74.9
Payback period
56.7
Discounted payback period
29.5
Accounting rate of return
30.3
Profitability index
11.9
Source: John R. Graham and Campbell R. Harvey, “The Theory and Practice of Corporate Finance: Evidence
from the Field,” Journal of Financial Economics (forthcoming). Based on a survey of 392 CFOs.
IN THEIR OWN WORDS
“Kitchen Confidential”: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly by Anthony Bourdain 
(Bloomsbury Press, 2000)
T
o want to own a restaurant can be a strange and
terrible affliction. What causes such a destructive
urge in so many otherwise sensible people? Why would
anyone who has worked hard, saved money, often been
successful in other fields, want to pump their hard-
earned cash down a hole that statistically, at least, will
almost surely prove dry? Why venture into an industry
with enormous fixed expenses (rent, electricity, gas,
water, linen, maintenance, insurance, license fees, trash
removal, etc.), with a notoriously transient and unstable
workforce and highly perishable inventory of assets?
The chances of ever seeing a return on your investment
are about one in five. What insidious spongi-form
bacteria so riddles the brains of men and women that
they stand there on the tracks, watching the lights of the
oncoming locomotive, knowing full well it will eventu-
ally run them over? After all these years in the business,
I still don’t know.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
168
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Noncash flow factors may occasionally play a role in capital budgeting decisions.
The easy answer, of course, is ego. The classic example is the retired dentist who was
always told he threw a great dinner party. “You should open a restaurant,” his friends tell
him. And our dentist believes them. He wants to get in the business—not to make money,
no really, but to swan about the dining room signing dinner checks, like Rick in
Casablanca. (See our In Their Own Words box.)
The use of quantitative techniques in capital budgeting varies with the industry. As
one would imagine, firms that are better able to precisely estimate cash flows are more
likely to use NPV. For example, estimation of cash flow in certain aspects of the oil busi-
ness is quite feasible. Because of this, energy-related firms were among the first to use
NPV analysis. Conversely, the cash flows in the motion-picture business are very hard to
project. The grosses of the great hits like Rocky, Star Wars, ET, and Fatal Attraction were
far, far greater than anyone imagined. The big failures like Heaven’s Gate and Howard the
Duck were unexpected as well. Because of this, NPV analysis is frowned upon in the
movie business.
How does Hollywood perform capital budgeting? The information that a studio uses to
accept or reject a movie idea comes from the pitch. An independent movie producer sched-
ules an extremely brief meeting with a studio to pitch his or her idea for a movie. Consider
the following four paragraphs of quotes concerning the pitch from the thoroughly delight-
ful book Reel Power.17
“They [studio executives] don’t want to know too much,” says Ron Simpson. “They 
want to know concept . . . . They want to know what the three-liner is, because they want
it to suggest the ad campaign. They want a title . . . . They don’t want to hear any 
esoterica. And if the meeting lasts more than five minutes, they’re probably not going 
to do the project.”
“A guy comes in and says this is my idea: ‘Jaws on a spaceship,’ ” says writer Clay
Frohman (Under Fire). “And they say, ‘Brilliant, fantastic.’ Becomes Alien. That is Jaws on a
spaceship, ultimately . . . . And that’s it. That’s all they want to hear. Their attitude is ‘Don’t
confuse us with the details of the story.’”
“. . . Some high-concept stories are more appealing to the studios than others. The ideas
liked best are sufficiently original that the audience will not feel it has already seen the movie,
yet similar enough to past hits to reassure executives wary of anything too far-out. Thus, the
frequently used shorthand: It’s Flashdance in the country (Footloose) or High Noon in outer
space (Outland).”
“. . . One gambit not to use during a pitch,” says executive Barbara Boyle, “is to talk
about big box-office grosses your story is sure to make. Executives know as well as anyone
that it’s impossible to predict how much money a movie will make, and declarations to the
contrary are considered pure malarkey.”
162
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
17Mark Litwak, Reel Power: The Struggle for Influence and Success in the New Hollywood (New York: William
Morrow and Company, Inc., 1986), pp. 73, 74, and 77.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
169
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 6
Some Alternative Investment Rules
163
6.9 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1. In this chapter we cover different investment decision rules. We evaluate the most popular
alternatives to the NPV: the payback period, the accounting rate of return, the internal rate of
return, and the profitability index. In doing so, we learn more about the NPV.
2. While we find that the alternatives have some redeeming qualities, when all is said and done,
they are not the NPV rule; for those of us in finance, that makes them decidedly second-rate.
3. Of the competitors to NPV, IRR must be ranked above either payback or accounting rate of
return. In fact, IRR always reaches the same decision as NPV in the normal case where the
initial outflows of an independent investment project are only followed by a series of inflows.
4. We classified the flaws of IRR into two types. First, we considered the general case applying to
both independent and mutually exclusive projects. There appeared to be two problems here:
a. Some projects have cash inflows followed by one or more outflows. The IRR rule is inverted
here:
One should accept when the IRR is below the discount rate.
b. Some projects have a number of changes of sign in their cash flows. Here, there are likely to
be multiple internal rates of return. The practitioner must use NPV here.
Clearly, (b) is a bigger problem than (a). A new IRR criterion is called for with (a). No IRR
criterion at all will work under (b).
5. Next, we considered the specific problems with the NPV for mutually exclusive projects. We
showed that, either due to differences in size or in timing, the project with the highest IRR need
not have the highest NPV. Hence, the IRR rule should not be applied. (Of course, NPV can still
be applied.)
However, we then calculated incremental cash flows. For ease of calculation, we suggested
subtracting the cash flows of the smaller project from the cash flows of the larger project. In that
way, the incremental initial cash flow is negative.
One can correctly pick the better of two mutually exclusive projects in three other ways:
a. Choose the project with the highest NPV.
b. If the incremental IRR is greater than the discount rate, choose the bigger project.
c. If the incremental NPV is positive, choose the bigger project.
6. We describe capital rationing as a case where funds are limited to a fixed dollar amount. With
capital rationing the profitability index is a useful method of adjusting the NPV.
KEY TERMS
Average accounting return
144
Independent project
149
Basic IRR rule
147
Internal rate of return
147
Capital rationing
159
Mutually exclusive investments
149
Discounted payback period rule
143
Payback period rule
141
Incremental IRR
155
Profitability index
158

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
170
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
SUGGESTED READINGS
For a discussion of what capital budgeting techniques are used by large firms, see:
Schall, L., and G. Sundem. “Capital Budgeting Methods and Risk: A Further Analysis.”
Financial Management (Spring 1980).
Marc Ross presents an in-depth look at the capital budgeting procedures of 12 firms in the
process industry:
Ross, Marc. “Capital Budgeting Practices of Twelve Large Manufacturers.” Financial
Management (Winter 1986).
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
The Payback Period Rule
6.1 Fuji Software, Inc., has the following projects.
Year
Project A
Project B
0
$7,500
$5,000
1
4,000
2,500
2
3,500
1,200
3
1,500
3,000
a. Suppose Fuji’s cutoff payback period is two years. Which of these two projects should
be chosen?
b. Suppose Fuji uses the NPV rule to rank these two projects. If the appropriate discount
rate is 15 percent, which project should be chosen?
6.2 Suppose Peach Paving Company invests $1 million today on a new construction project.
The project will generate annual cash flows of $150,000 in perpetuity. The appropriate
annual discount rate for the project is 10 percent.
a. What is the payback period for the project? If the Peach Paving Company desires to have
a 10-year payback period, should the project be adopted?
b. What is the discounted payback period for the project?
c. What is the NPV of the project?
The Average Accounting Return
6.3 The annual, end-of-year, book-investment accounts for the machine whose purchase your
firm is considering are shown below.
Purchase
Year
Year
Year
Year
Date
1
2
3
4
Gross investment
$16,000
$16,000
$16,000
$16,000
$16,000
Less: accumulated
depreciation
0
4,000
8,000
12,000
16,000
_______
_______
_______
_______
______
Net investment
$16,000
$12,000
$ 8,000
$ 4,000
$
0
If your firm purchases this machine, you can expect it to generate, on average, $4,500 per
year in additional net income.
a. What is the average accounting return for this machine?
b. What three flaws are inherent in this decision rule?
6.4 Western Printing Co. has an opportunity to purchase a $2 million new printing machine. It
has an economic life of five years and will be worthless after that time. This new investment
is expected to generate an annual net income of $100,000 one year from today and the
income stream will grow at 7 percent per year subsequently. The company adopts a straight-
164
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
171
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
line depreciation method (i.e., equal amounts of depreciation in each year). What is the
average accounting return of the investment? Supposing Western Printing’s AAR cutoff is
20 percent, should the machine be purchased?
6.5 Nokia Group has invested $8,000 in a high-tech project. This cost is depreciated on an
accelerated basis that yields $4,000, $2,500, $1,500 of depreciation, respectively, during its
three-year economic life. The project is expected to produce income before tax of $2,000
each year during its economic life. If the tax rate is 25%, what is the project’s average
accounting return (AAR)?
a. 44.44%
b. 50.23%
c. 66.67%
d. 70.00%
e. 82.21%
The Internal Rate of Return
6.6 Compute the internal rate of return on projects with the following cash flows.
Cash Flows ($)
Year
Project A
Project B
0
3,000
6,000
1
2,500
5,000
2
1,000
2,000
6.7 CPC, Inc., has a project with the following cash flows.
Year
Cash Flows ($)
0
8,000
1
4,000
2
3,000
3
2,000
a. Compute the internal rate of return on the project.
b. Suppose the appropriate discount rate is 8 percent. Should the project be adopted by CPC?
6.8 Compute the internal rate of return for the cash flows of the following two projects.
Cash Flows ($)
Time
A
B
0
2,000
1,500
1
2,000
500
2
8,000
1,000
3
8,000
1,500
6.9 Suppose you are offered $5,000 today and obligated to make scheduled payments as follows:
Year
Cash Flows ($)
0
5,000
1
2,500
2
2,000
3
1,000
4
1,000
a. What is the IRRs of this offer?
b. If the appropriate discount rate is 10 percent, should you accept this offer?
c. If the appropriate discount rate is 20 percent, should you accept this offer?
Chapter 6
Some Alternative Investment Rules
165

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
172
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
d. What is the corresponding NPV of the project if the appropriate discount rates are 10
percent and 20 percent, respectively? Are the choices under the NPV rule consistent
with those of the IRR rule?
6.10 As the Chief Financial Officer of the Orient Express, you are offered the following two
mutually exclusive projects.
Year
Project A
Project B
0
$5,000
$100,000
1
3,500
65,000
2
3,500
65,000
a. What are the IRRs of these two projects?
b. If you are told only the IRRs of the projects, which would you choose?
c. What did you ignore when you made your choice in part (b)?
d. How can the problem be remedied?
e. Compute the incremental IRR for the projects.
f. Based on your answer to part (e), which project should you choose?
g. Suppose you have determined that the appropriate discount rate for these projects 
is 15 percent. According to the NPV rule, which of these two projects should be
adopted?
6.11 Consider two streams of cash flows, A and B. Cash flow A consists of $5,000 starting three
years from today and growing at 4 percent in perpetuity. Cash flow B consists of $6,000
starting two years from today and continuing in perpetuity. Assume the appropriate
discount rate is 12 percent.
a. What is the present value of each stream?
b. What is the IRR of a project C, which is a combination of projects A and B; that is,
C  A  B?
c. If it is assumed that the discount rate is always positive, what is the rule related to IRR
for assessing project C that would correspond to the NPV rule?
6.12 Project A involves an investment of $1 million, and project B involves an investment of
$2 million. Both projects have a unique internal rate of return of 20 percent. Is the
following statement true or false? Explain your answer.
For any discount rate between 0 percent and 20 percent, inclusive, project B has an
NPV twice as great as that of project A.
The Profitability Index
6.13 Suppose the following two mutually exclusive investment opportunities are available to the
DeAngelo Firm. The appropriate discount rate is 10 percent.
Year
Project Alpha
Project Beta
0
$500
$2,000
1
300
300
2
700
1,800
3
600
1,700
a. What is the NPV of project alpha and project beta?
b. Which project would you recommend for the DeAngelo Firm?
6.14 The firm for which you work must choose between the following two mutually exclusive
projects. The appropriate discount rate for the projects is 10 percent.
Profitability
C0
C1
C2
Index
NPV
A
$1,000
$1,000
$500
1.32
$322
B
500
500
400
1.57
285
166
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
173
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The firm chose to undertake A. At a luncheon for shareholders, the manager of a pension fund
that owns a substantial amount of the firm’s stock asks you why the firm chose project A instead
of project B when B is more profitable.
How would you justify your firm’s action? Are there any circumstances under which the
pension fund manager’s argument could be correct?
6.15 The treasurer of Davids, Inc., has projected the cash flows of projects A, B, and C as
follows. Suppose the relevant discount rate is 12 percent a year.
Year
Project A
Project B
Project C
0
$100,000
$200,000
$100,000
1
70,000
130,000
75,000
2
70,000
130,000
60,000
a. Compute the profitability indices for each of the three projects.
b. Compute the NPVs for each of the three projects.
c. Suppose these three projects are independent. Which projects should Davids accept
based on the profitability index rule?
d. Suppose these three projects are mutually exclusive. Which project should Davids
accept based on the profitability index rule?
e. Suppose Davids’ budget for these projects is $300,000. The projects are not divisible.
Which projects should Davids accept?
6.16 Bill plans to open a self-serve grooming center in a storefront. The grooming equipment
will cost $160,000. Bill expects the after-tax cash inflows to be $40,000 annually for seven
years, after which he plans to scrap the equipment and retire to the beaches of Jamaica.
Assume the required return is 15%. What is the project’s PI? Should it be accepted?
Comparison of Investment Rules
6.17 Define each of the following investment rules. In your definition state the criteria for
accepting or rejecting an investment under each rule.
a. Payback period
b. Average accounting return
c. Internal rate of return
d. Profitability index
e. Net present value
6.18 Consider the following cash flows of two mutually exclusive projects for Chinese
Daily News.
New Sunday
New Saturday
Year
Early Edition
Late Edition
0
$1,200
$2,100
1
600
1,000
2
550
900
3
450
800
a. Based on the payback period rule, which project should be chosen?
b. Suppose there is no corporate tax and the cash flows above are income before the
depreciation. The firm uses a straight-line depreciation method (i.e., equal amounts of
depreciation in each year). What is the average accounting return for each of these two
projects?
c. Which project has a greater IRR?
d. Based on the incremental IRR rule, which project should be chosen?
Chapter 6
Some Alternative Investment Rules
167

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
6. Some Alternative 
Investment Rules
174
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
6.19 Consider the following cash flows on two mutually exclusive projects that require an
annual return of 15 percent. Working in the financial planning department for the Bahamas
Recreation Corp., you are trying to compare different investment criteria to arrive at a
sensible choice of these two projects.
Deepwater
New Submarine
Year
Fishing
Ride
0
$600,000
$1,800,000
1
270,000
1,000,000
2
350,000
700,000
3
300,000
900,000
a. Based on the discounted payback period rule, which project should be chosen?
b. If your decision rule is to accept the project with a greater IRR, which project should
you choose?
c. Since you are fully aware of the IRR rule’s scale problem, you calculate the
incremental IRR for the cash flows. Based on your computation, which project should
you choose?
d. To be prudent, you compute the NPV for both projects. Which project should you
choose? Is it consistent with the incremental IRR rule?
6.20 The Utah Mining Corporation is set to open a gold mine near Provo, Utah. According to
the treasurer, Steven Sample, “This is a golden opportunity.” The mine will cost $600,000
to open. It will generate a cash inflow of $100,000 during the first year and the cash flows
are projected to grow at 8 percent per year for 10 years. After 10 years the mine will be
abandoned. Abandonment costs will be $50,000.
a. What is the IRR for the gold mine?
b. The Utah Mining Corporation requires a 10 percent return on such undertakings.
Should the mine be opened?
168
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
175
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Net Present Value and
Capital Budgeting
CHAPTER 7
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I
n late 1990, the Boeing Company announced its intention to build the Boeing 777, a
commercial airplane that would be able to carry up to 390 passengers and fly 7,600 miles.
This was expected to be an enormous undertaking. Analysts believed the up-front in-
vestment and research and development expenditures necessary to manufacture the Boeing
777 would be as much as $8 billion. Delivery of the first planes was expected to take place
in 1995 and to continue for at least 35 years. Was the Boeing 777 a good project for Boeing?
In 1990, was the NPV for the Boeing 777 positive? This chapter attempts to show you how
Boeing and other firms should go about trying to answer these important questions. The Boe-
ing 777 is an example of capital budgeting decision making at the Boeing Company.
Previous chapters discussed the basics of capital budgeting and the net present value
approach. We now want to move beyond these basics into the real-world application of
these techniques. We want to show you how to use discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis
and net present value (NPV) in capital budgeting decision making.
In this chapter, we show how to identify the relevant cash flows of a project, including
initial investment outlays, requirements for working capital, and operating cash flows. We
look at the effects of depreciation and taxes. We examine the impact of inflation on interest
rates and on a project’s discount rate, and we show why inflation must be handled consis-
tently in NPV analysis.
7.1 INCREMENTAL CASH FLOWS
Cash Flows—Not Accounting Income
You may not have thought about it, but there is a big difference between corporate finance
courses and financial accounting courses. Techniques in corporate finance generally use
cash flows, whereas financial accounting generally stresses income or earnings numbers.
Certainly, our text has followed this tradition since our net present value techniques dis-
counted cash flows, not earnings. When considering a single project, we discounted the
cash flows that the firm receives from the project. When valuing the firm as a whole, we
discounted dividends—not earnings—because dividends are the cash flows that an in-
vestor receives.
There are many differences between earnings and cash flows. In fact, much of a standard
financial accounting course delineates these differences. Because we have no desire to dupli-
cate such course material, we merely discuss one example of the differences. Consider a firm
buying a building for $100,000 today. The entire $100,000 is an immediate cash outflow.
However, assuming straight-line depreciation over 20 years, only $5,000 ($100,000/20) is
considered an accounting expense in the current year. Current earnings are thereby reduced
only by $5,000. The remaining $95,000 is expensed over the following 19 years.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
176
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Because the seller of the property demands immediate payment, the cost at date 0 of
the project to the firm is $100,000. Thus, the full $100,000 figure should be viewed as an
immediate outflow for capital budgeting purposes. This is not merely our opinion but the
unanimous verdict of both academics and practitioners.
In addition, it is not enough to use cash flows. In calculating the NPV of a project, only
cash flows that are incremental to the project should be used. These cash flows are the
changes in the firm’s cash flows that occur as a direct consequence of accepting the proj-
ect. That is, we are interested in the difference between the cash flows of the firm with the
project and the cash flows of the firm without the project.
The use of incremental cash flows sounds easy enough, but pitfalls abound in the real
world. In this section we describe how to avoid some of the pitfalls of determining incre-
mental cash flows.
Sunk Costs
A sunk cost is a cost that has already occurred. Because sunk costs are in the past, they can-
not be changed by the decision to accept or reject the project. Just as we “let bygones be
bygones,” we should ignore such costs. Sunk costs are not incremental cash outflows.
EXAMPLE
The General Milk Company is currently evaluating the NPV of establishing a line
of chocolate milk. As part of the evaluation the company had paid a consulting
firm $100,000 to perform a test-marketing analysis. This expenditure was made
last year. Is this cost relevant for the capital budgeting decision now confronting
the management of General Milk Company?
The answer is no. The $100,000 is not recoverable, so the $100,000 expendi-
ture is a sunk cost, or spilled milk. Of course, the decision to spend $100,000 for
a marketing analysis was a capital budgeting decision itself and was perfectly rel-
evant before it was sunk. Our point is that once the company incurred the expense,
the cost became irrelevant for any future decision.
Opportunity Costs
Your firm may have an asset that it is considering selling, leasing, or employing elsewhere in
the business. If the asset is used in a new project, potential revenues from alternative uses are
lost. These lost revenues can meaningfully be viewed as costs. They are called opportunity
costs because, by taking the project, the firm forgoes other opportunities for using the assets.
EXAMPLE
Suppose the Weinstein Trading Company has an empty warehouse in Philadelphia
that can be used to store a new line of electronic pinball machines. The company
hopes to market the machines to affluent northeastern consumers. Should the cost
of the warehouse and land be included in the costs associated with introducing a
new line of electronic pinball machines?
The answer is yes. The use of a warehouse is not free; it has an opportunity
cost. The cost is the cash that could be raised by the company if the decision to
market the electronic pinball machines were rejected and the warehouse and land
were put to some other use (or sold). If so, the NPV of the alternative uses becomes
an opportunity cost of the decision to sell electronic pinball machines.
170
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
177
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Side Effects
Another difficulty in determining incremental cash flows comes from the side effects of the
proposed project on other parts of the firm. The most important side effect is erosion. Ero-
sion is the cash flow transferred to a new project from customers and sales of other prod-
ucts of the firm.
EXAMPLE
Suppose the Innovative Motors Corporation (IMC) is determining the NPV of a
new convertible sports car. Some of the customers who would purchase the car are
owners of IMC’s compact sedan. Are all sales and profits from the new convert-
ible sports car incremental?
The answer is no because some of the cash flow represents transfers from
other elements of IMC’s product line. This is erosion, which must be included in
the NPV calculation. Without taking erosion into account, IMC might erroneously
calculate the NPV of the sports car to be, say, $100 million. If IMC’s managers
recognized that half the customers are transfers from the sedan and that lost sedan
sales have an NPV of $150 million, they would see that the true NPV is $50
million ($100 million  $150 million).
• What are the three difficulties in determining incremental cash flows?
• Define sunk costs, opportunity costs, and side effects.
7.2 THE BALDWIN COMPANY: AN EXAMPLE
We next consider the example of a proposed investment in machinery and related items. Our
example involves the Baldwin Company and colored bowling balls.
The Baldwin Company, originally established in 1965 to make footballs, is now a lead-
ing producer of tennis balls, baseballs, footballs, and golf balls. In 1973 the company in-
troduced “High Flite,” its first line of high-performance golf balls. The Baldwin manage-
ment has sought opportunities in whatever businesses seem to have some potential for cash
flow. In 1999 W. C. Meadows, vice president of the Baldwin Company, identified another
segment of the sports ball market that looked promising and that he felt was not adequately
served by larger manufacturers. That market was for brightly colored bowling balls, and he
believed a large number of bowlers valued appearance and style above performance. He
also believed that it would be difficult for competitors to take advantage of the opportunity
because of Baldwin’s cost advantages and because of its ability to use its highly developed
marketing skills.
As a result, in late 2000 the Baldwin Company decided to evaluate the marketing po-
tential of brightly colored bowling balls. Baldwin sent a questionnaire to consumers in three
markets: Philadelphia, Los Angeles, and New Haven. The results of the three questionnaires
were much better than expected and supported the conclusion that the brightly colored
bowling ball could achieve a 10- to 15-percent share of the market. Of course, some people
at Baldwin complained about the cost of the test marketing, which was $250,000. However,
Meadows argued that it was a sunk cost and should not be included in project evaluation.
Chapter 7
Net Present Value and Capital Budgeting
171
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
178
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
In any case, the Baldwin Company is now considering investing in a machine to pro-
duce bowling balls. The bowling balls would be produced in a building owned by the firm
and located near Los Angeles. This building, which is vacant, and the land can be sold to
net $150,000 after taxes. The adjusted basis of this property, the original purchase price of
the property less depreciation, is zero.1
Working with his staff, Meadows is preparing an analysis of the proposed new prod-
uct. He summarizes his assumptions as follows: The cost of the bowling ball machine is
$100,000. The machine has an estimated market value at the end of five years of $30,000.
Production by year during the five-year life of the machine is expected to be as follows:
5,000 units, 8,000 units, 12,000 units, 10,000 units, and 6,000 units. The price of bowling
balls in the first year will be $20. The bowling ball market is highly competitive, so
Meadows believes that the price of bowling balls will increase at only 2 percent per year,
as compared to the anticipated general inflation rate of 5 percent. Conversely, the plastic
used to produce bowling balls is rapidly becoming more expensive. Because of this, pro-
duction cash outflows are expected to grow at 10 percent per year. First-year production
costs will be $10 per unit. Meadows has determined, based upon Baldwin’s taxable income,
that the appropriate incremental corporate tax rate in the bowling ball project is 34 percent.
Net working capital is defined as the difference between current assets and current li-
abilities. Baldwin finds that it must maintain an investment in working capital. Like any
manufacturing firm, it will purchase raw materials before production and sale, giving rise
to an investment in inventory. It will maintain cash as a buffer against unforeseen expendi-
tures. Its credit sales will generate accounts receivable. Management believes that the in-
vestment in the different items of working capital totals $10,000 in year 0, rises somewhat
in the early years of the project, and falls to $0 by the project’s end. In other words, the in-
vestment in working capital is completely recovered by the end of the project’s life.
Projections based on these assumptions and Meadows’s analysis appear in Tables 7.1
through 7.4. In these tables all cash flows are assumed to occur at the end of the year.
Because of the large amount of data in these tables, it is important to see how the tables are
related. Table 7.1 shows the basic data for both investment and income. Supplementary
schedules on operations and depreciation, as presented in Tables 7.2 and 7.3, help explain
where the numbers in Table 7.1 come from. Our goal is to obtain projections of cash flow.
The data in Table 7.1 are all that are needed to calculate the relevant cash flows, as shown
in Table 7.4.
An Analysis of the Project
Investments
The investment outlays required for the project are summarized in the top
segment of Table 7.1. They consist of three parts:
1. The Bowling Ball Machine. The purchase requires a cash outflow of $100,000 at
year 0. The firm realizes a cash inflow when the machine is sold in year 5. These cash flows
are shown in line 1 of Table 7.1. As indicated in the footnote to the table, taxes are incurred
when the asset is sold.
2. The Opportunity Cost of Not Selling the Warehouse. If Baldwin accepts the bowling-
ball project, it will use a warehouse and land that could otherwise be sold. The estimated
sales price of the warehouse and land is therefore included as an opportunity cost, as 
172
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
1We use the term adjusted basis rather than book value because we are concerned with the firm’s tax books, not
its accounting books. This point is treated later in the chapter in the section entitled “Which Set of Books?” The
current market value of the building and land is $227,272.73. We will assume the corporate tax rate is 34
percent, the basis is zero, and the after-tax net is $227,272.73  (1  0.34)  $150,000.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
179
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
presented in line 4. Opportunity costs are treated as cash flows for purposes of capital budg-
eting. However, the expenditures of $250,000 for test marketing are not included. The tests
occurred in the past and should be viewed as a sunk cost.
3. The Investment in Working Capital. Required working capital appears in line 5.
Working capital rises over the early years of the project as expansion occurs. However, all
working capital is assumed to be recovered at the end, a common assumption in capital
Chapter 7
Net Present Value and Capital Budgeting
173
I TABLE 7.1 The Worksheet for Cash Flows of the Baldwin Company (in $ thousands) 
(All cash flows occur at the end of the year.)
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
Investments:
(1) Bowling ball machine
$100.00
$21.76*
(2) Accumulated depreciation
$20.00
$52.00
$71.20
$82.72
94.24
(3) Adjusted basis of machine
80.00
48.00
28.80
17.28
5.76
after depreciation (end-of-year)
(4) Opportunity cost (warehouse)
150.00
150.00
(5) Net working capital (end-of-year)
10.00
10.00
16.32
24.97
21.22
0
(6) Change in net working capital
10.00
6.32
8.65
3.75
21.22
(7) Total cash flow of investment
260.00
6.32
8.65
3.75
192.98
[(1)  (4)  (6)]
Income:
(8) Sales revenues
$100.00
$163.20
$249.72
$212.20
$129.90
(9) Operating costs
50.00
88.00
145.20
133.10
87.84
(10) Depreciation
20.00
32.00
19.20
11.52
11.52
(11) Income before taxes
30.00
43.20
85.32
67.58
30.54
[(8)  (9)  (10)]
(12) Tax at 34 percent
10.20
14.69
29.01
22.98
10.38
(13) Net income
19.80
28.51
56.31
44.60
20.16
*We assume that the ending market value of the capital investment at year 5 is $30 (in thousands). Capital gain is the difference between
ending market value and adjusted basis of the machine. The adjusted basis is the original purchase price of the machine less depreciation. The
capital gain is $24.24 ($30  $5.76). We will assume the incremental corporate tax rate for Baldwin on this project is 34 percent. Capital
gains are now taxed at the ordinary income rate, so the capital gains tax here is $8.24 [0.34  ($30  $5.76)]. The after-tax capital gain is 
$30  [0.34  ($30  $5.76)]  $21.76.
I TABLE 7.2 Operating Revenues and Costs of the Baldwin Company
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Sales
Cost
Operating
Year
Production
Price
Revenues
per Unit
Costs
1
5,000
$20.00
$100,000
$10.00
$ 50,000
2
8,000
20.40
163,200
11.00
88,000
3
12,000
20.81
249,720
12.10
145,200
4
10,000
21.22
212,200
13.31
133,100
5
6,000
21.65
129,900
14.64
87,840
Prices rise at 2% a year.
Unit costs rise at 10% a year.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
180
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
budgeting. In other words, all inventory is sold by the end, the cash balance maintained as
a buffer is liquidated, and all accounts receivable are collected. Increases in working capi-
tal in the early years must be funded by cash generated elsewhere in the firm. Hence, these
increases are viewed as cash outflows. Conversely, decreases in working capital in the later
years are viewed as cash inflows. All of these cash flows are presented in line 6. A more
complete discussion of working capital is provided later in this section. The total cash flow
from the above three investments is shown in line 7.
Income and Taxes
Next, the determination of income is presented in the bottom segment
of Table 7.1. While we are ultimately interested in cash flow—not income—we need the in-
come calculation in order to determine taxes. Lines 8 and 9 of Table 7.1 show sales revenues
and operating costs, respectively. The projections in these lines are based on the sales rev-
174
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
I TABLE 7.3 Depreciation for the Baldwin Company
Recovery Period Class
Year
3 Years
5 Years
7 Years
1
$ 33,340
$ 20,000
$ 14,280
2
44,440
32,000
24,490
3
14,810
19,200
17,490
4
7,410
11,520
12,500
5
11,520
8,920
6
5,760
8,920
7
8,920
8
4,480
Total
$100,000
$100,000
$100,000
These schedules are based on the IRS publication Depreciation. Details on depreciation are presented in the
appendix. Three-year depreciation actually carries over four years because the IRS assumes you purchase in
midyear.
I TABLE 7.4 Incremental Cash Flows for the Baldwin Company (in $ thousands)
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
(1) Sales revenue [line 8, Table 7.1]
$100.00
$163.20
$249.72
$212.20
$129.90
(2) Operating costs [line 9, Table 7.1]
50.00
88.00
145.20
133.10
87.84
(3) Taxes [line 12, Table 7.1]
10.20
14.69
29.01
22.98
10.38
(4) Cash flow from operations
39.80
60.51
75.51
56.12
31.68
[(1)  (2)  (3)]
(5) Total cash flow of investment
$260.00
6.32
8.65
3.75
192.98
[line 7, Table 7.1]
(6) Total cash flow of project
260.00
39.80
54.19
66.86
59.87
224.66
[(4)  (5)]
NPV @
4%
123.641
10%
51.588
15%
5.472
20%
31.351

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
181
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
enues and operating costs computed in columns 4 and 6 of Table 7.2. The estimates of rev-
enues and costs follow from assumptions made by the corporate planning staff at Baldwin.
In other words, the estimates critically depend on the fact that product prices are projected
to increase at 2 percent per year and costs are projected to increase at 10 percent per year.
Depreciation of the $100,000 capital investment is based on the amount allowed by the
1986 Tax Reform Act.2 Depreciation schedules under the act for three-year, five-year, and
seven-year recovery periods are presented in Table 7.3. The IRS ruled that Baldwin is to de-
preciate its capital investment over five years, so the middle column of the table applies to
this case. Depreciation from this middle column is reproduced in line 10 of Table 7.1.
Income before taxes is calculated in line 11 of Table 7.1. Taxes are provided in line 12 of
this table, and net income is calculated in line 13.
Cash Flow
Cash flow is finally determined in Table 7.4. We begin by reproducing lines
8, 9, and 12 in Table 7.1 as lines 1, 2, and 3 in Table 7.4. Cash flow from operations, which
is sales minus both operating costs and taxes, is provided in line 4 of Table 7.4. Total in-
vestment cash flow, taken from line 7 of Table 7.1, appears as line 5 of Table 7.4. Cash flow
from operations plus total cash flow of the investment equals total cash flow of the project,
which is displayed as line 6 of Table 7.4. The bottom of the table presents the NPV of these
cash flows for different discount rates.
Net Present Value
It is possible to calculate the NPV of the Baldwin bowling ball proj-
ect from these cash flows. As can be seen at the bottom of Table 7.4, the NPV is $51,588 if
10 percent is the appropriate discount rate and $31,351 if 20 percent is the appropriate
discount rate. If the discount rate is 15.67 percent, the project will have a zero NPV. In other
words, the project’s internal rate of return is 15.67 percent. If the discount rate of the Bald-
win bowling ball project is above 15.67 percent, it should not be accepted because its NPV
would be negative.
Which Set of Books?
It should be noted that the firm’s management generally keeps two sets of books, one for
the IRS (called the tax books) and another for its annual report (called the stockholders’
books). The tax books follow the rules of the IRS. The stockholders’books follow the rules
of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the governing body in accounting.
The two sets of rules differ widely in certain areas. For example, income on municipal
bonds is ignored for tax purposes while being treated as income by the FASB. The differ-
ences almost always benefit the firm, because the rules permit income on the stockholders’
books to be higher than income on the tax books. That is, management can look profitable
to the stockholders without needing to pay taxes on all of the reported profit. In fact, there
are plenty of large companies that consistently report positive earnings to the stockholders
while reporting losses to the IRS.
We present a synopsis of the IRS rules on depreciation in the appendix. The rules on
depreciation for the stockholders’ books differ, as they do in many other accounting areas.
Which of the two sets of rules on depreciation do we want in order to create the previous
tables for Baldwin? Clearly, we are interested in the IRS rules. Our purpose is to determine
net cash flow, and tax payments are a cash outflow. The FASB regulations determine the
calculation of accounting income, not cash flow.
Chapter 7
Net Present Value and Capital Budgeting
175
2Depreciation rules are discussed in detail in the appendix to this chapter.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
182
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
A Note on Net Working Capital
The investment in net working capital is an important part of any capital budgeting analy-
sis. While we explicitly considered net working capital in lines 5 and 6 of Table 7.1, stu-
dents may be wondering where the numbers in these lines came from. An investment in
net working capital arises whenever (1) raw materials and other inventory are purchased
prior to the sale of finished goods, (2) cash is kept in the project as a buffer against unex-
pected expenditures, and (3) credit sales are made, generating accounts receivable rather
than cash. (The investment in net working capital is offset to the extent that purchases are
made on credit, that is, when an accounts payable is created.) This investment in net work-
ing capital represents a cash outflow, because cash generated elsewhere in the firm is tied
up in the project.
To see how the investment in net working capital is built from its component parts, we
focus on year 1. We see in Table 7.1 that Baldwin’s managers predict sales in year 1 to be
$100,000 and operating costs to be $50,000. If both the sales and costs were cash transac-
tions, the firm would receive $50,000 ($100,000  $50,000).
However, the managers:
1. Forecast that $9,000 of the sales will be on credit, implying that cash receipts in year 1
will be only $91,000 ($100,000  $9,000). The accounts receivable of $9,000 will be
collected in year 2.
2. Believe that they can defer payment on $3,000 of the $50,000 of costs, implying that
cash disbursements will be only $47,000 ($50,000  $3,000). Of course, Baldwin will
pay off the $3,000 of accounts payable in year 2.
3. Decide that inventory of $2,500 should be left on hand at year 1 to avoid stockouts (that
is, running out of inventory) and other contingencies.
4. Decide that cash of $1,500 should be earmarked for the project at year 1 to avoid run-
ning out of cash.
Thus, net working capital in year 1 is
$9,000

$3,000

$2,500

$1,500

$10,000
Accounts
Accounts
Inventory
Cash
Net working
receivable
payable
capital
Because $10,000 of cash generated elsewhere in the firm must be used to offset this re-
quirement for net working capital, Baldwin’s managers correctly view the investment in
net working capital as a cash outflow of the project. As the project grows over time,
needs for net working capital increase. Changes in net working capital from year to year
represent further cash flows, as indicated by the negative numbers for the first few years
of line 6 of Table 7.1. However, in the declining years of the project, net working capi-
tal is reduced—ultimately to zero. That is, accounts receivable are finally collected, the
project’s cash buffer is returned to the rest of the corporation, and all remaining inven-
tory is sold off. This frees up cash in the later years, as indicated by positive numbers in
years 4 and 5 on line 6.
Typically, corporate worksheets (such as Table 7.1) treat net working capital as a
whole. The individual components of working capital (receivables, inventory, etc.) do not
generally appear in the worksheets. However, the reader should remember that the working
capital numbers in the worksheets are not pulled out of thin air. Rather, they result from a
meticulous forecast of the components, just as we illustrated for year 1.
176
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
183
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Interest Expense
It may have bothered you that interest expense was ignored in the Baldwin example. After all,
many projects are at least partially financed with debt, particularly a bowling ball machine that
is likely to increase the debt capacity of the firm. As it turns out, our approach of assuming no
debt financing is rather standard in the real world. Firms typically calculate a project’s cash
flows under the assumption that the project is financed only with equity. Any adjustments for
debt financing are reflected in the discount rate, not the cash flows. The treatment of debt in
capital budgeting will be covered in depth later in the text. Suffice it to say at this time that the
full ramifications of debt financing are well beyond our current discussion.
• What are the items leading to cash flow in any year?
• Why did we determine income when NPV analysis discounts cash flows, not income?
• Why is working capital viewed as a cash outflow?
EXAMPLE
In late 1990, when the Boeing Company announced its intention to build a new
passenger airplane called the Boeing 777, it anticipated it could sell several thou-
sand planes over a 35-year period. Table 7.5 describes one set of possible (and hy-
pothetical) cash flows of the Boeing 777. Although Boeing incurred several hun-
dred million dollars of research and development prior to 1991, we ignore these
costs because they are sunk costs. Notice also that we have subtracted deprecia-
tion from sales revenue for tax purposes but added it back for total cash flow.
It is possible to calculate the NPV of the Boeing 777 from these cash flows.
If the discount rate is 10 percent, the NPV is positive whereas if the appropriate
discount rate is 30 percent, the NPV is negative. The break-even discount rate is
19 percent. (Recall we also call the break-even discount rate the IRR.)
In May 2000, Boeing had delivered 282 777s—somewhat less than the deliveries hy-
pothesized in Table 7.5.
7.3 INFLATION AND CAPITAL BUDGETING
Inflation is an important fact of economic life, and it must be considered in capital budget-
ing. We begin our examination of inflation by considering the relationship between interest
rates and inflation.
Interest Rates and Inflation
Suppose that the one-year interest rate that the bank pays is 10 percent. This means that an
individual who deposits $1,000 at date 0 will get $1,100 ($1,000  1.10) in one year. While
10 percent may seem like a handsome return, one can only put it in perspective after ex-
amining the rate of inflation.
Suppose that the rate of inflation is 6 percent over the year and it affects all goods
equally. For example, a restaurant that charges $1.00 for a hamburger at date 0 charges
$1.06 for the same hamburger at the end of the year. You can use your $1,000 to buy 1,000
Chapter 7
Net Present Value and Capital Budgeting
177
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
184
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
178
I TABLE 7.5 Incremental Cash Flows: Boeing 777
Number
Income 
of Planes
Sales
Operating
before
Change 
Capital
Depreciation
Total
Year
Delivered
Revenue
Costs
Depreciation
Taxes
Taxes
in NWC
Expenditure
Investment
Add-back
Cash Flow
1991
$
865.00
$ 40.00
$ (905.00)
$ (307.70)
$400.00
$ 400.00
$ 40.00
$ (957.30)
1992
1,340.00
96.00
(1,436.00)
(488.24)
600.00
600.00
96.00
(1,451.76)
1993
1,240.00
116.40
(1,356.40)
(461.18)
300.00
300.00
116.40
(1,078.82)
1994
840.00
124.76
(964.76)
(328.02)
200.00
200.00
124.76
(711.98)
1995
14
$ 1,847.55
1,976.69
112.28
(241.42)
(82.08)
$ 181.06
1.85
182.91
112.28
(229.97)
1996
145
19,418.96
17,865.45
101.06
1,452.45
493.83
1,722.00
19.42
1,741.42
101.06
681.74
1997
140
19,244.23
16,550.04
90.95
2,603.24
885.10
(17.12)
19.42
2.30
90.95
1,806.79
1998
111
15,737.95
13,377.26
82.72
2,277.97
774.51
(343.62)
15.74
(327.88)
82.72
1,914.06
1999
107
16,257.35
13,656.17
77.75
2,523.43
857.97
50.90
16.26
67.16
77.75
1,676.05
2000
102
15,333.42
12,726.74
75.63
2,531.05
860.56
90.54
15.33
105.87
75.63
1,640.25
2001
92
14,289.29
11,860.11
75.00
2,354.18
800.42
(102.33)
14.29
(88.04)
75.00
1,716.80
2002
92
14,717.97
12,068.74
75.00
2,574.23
875.24
42.01
14.72
56.73
75.00
1,717.26
2003
105
17,233.97
14,131.85
99.46
3,002.66
1,020.90
246.57
244.64
491.21
99.46
1,590.01
2004
89
15,066.42
12,354.47
121.48
2,590.47
880.76
(212.42)
244.64
32.22
121.48
1,798.97
2005
111
19,468.56
17,911.07
116.83
1,440.66
489.82
431.41
19.47
450.88
116.83
616.79
2006
130
23,307.53
20,510.63
112.65
2,684.25
912.65
376.22
23.31
399.53
112.65
1,484.73
2007
118
21,911.40
18,843.81
100.20
2,967.39
1,008.91
(136.82)
21.91
(114.91)
100.20
2,173.59
2008
94
17,944.00
15,252.40
129.20
2,562.40
871.22
(388.81)
567.22
178.41
129.20
1,641.97
2009
123
24,103.23
22,174.98
96.99
1,831.26
622.63
603.60
24.10
627.70
96.99
677.92
2010
125
25,316.97
22,278.94
76.84
2,961.19
1,006.80
118.95
25.32
144.27
76.84
1,886.96
2011
125
26,076.48
22,425.77
65.81
3,584.90
1,218.87
74.43
26.08
100.51
65.81
2,331.33
2012
98
21,133.07
17,963.10
61.68
3,108.29
1,056.82
(484.45)
21.13
(463.32)
61.68
2,576.47
2013
84
18,550.25
15,582.21
57.96
2,910.08
989.43
(253.12)
18.55
(234.57)
57.96
2,213.18
2014
89
20,321.64
16,866.97
54.61
3,400.06
1,156.02
173.60
20.32
193.92
54.61
2,104.73
2015
89
20,931.29
17,372.97
52.83
3,505.49
1,191.87
59.75
20.93
80.68
52.83
2,285.77
2016
89
21,559.23
17,894.16
52.83
3,612.24
1,228.16
61.54
21.56
83.10
52.83
2,353.81
2017
89
22,206.00
18,430.98
52.83
3,722.19
1,265.54
63.38
22.21
85.59
52.83
2,423.89
2018
89
22,872.18
18,983.92
52.83
3,835.43
1,304.05
65.29
22.87
88.16
52.83
2,496.05
2019
89
23,558.35
19,553.43
47.52
3,957.40
1,345.52
67.24
23.56
90.80
47.52
2,568.60
2020
89
24,265.10
20,140.03
35.28
4,089.79
1,390.53
69.26
24.27
93.53
35.28
2,641.01
2021
89
24,993.05
20,744.23
28.36
4,220.46
1,434.96
71.34
24.99
96.33
28.36
2,717.53
2022
89
25,742.85
21,366.56
28.36
4,347.93
1,478.30
73.48
25.74
99.22
28.36
2,798.77
2023
89
26,515.13
22,007.56
28.36
4,479.21
1,522.93
75.68
26.52
102.20
28.36
2,882.44
2024
89
$27,310.58
$22,667.78
$ 16.05
$ 4,626.75
$1,573.10
$
77.95
$ 27.31
$ 105.26
$ 16.05
$ 2,964.45
Notes:
Tax rate is 34 percent of taxable income.
Total cash flow can be determined by adding across the rows. Recall that total cash flow is equal to Sales revenue  Operating costs  Taxes  Investment.
Source: Robert Brumer, Case Studies in Finance (Burr Ridge, Ill.: Times Mirror/Irwin, 1997).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
185
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
hamburgers at date 0. Alternatively, if you put all of your money in the bank, you can buy
1,038 ($1,100/$1.06) hamburgers at date 1. Thus, you are only able to increase your ham-
burger consumption by 3.8 percent by lending to the bank. Since the prices of all goods
rise at this 6-percent rate, lending lets you increase your consumption of any single good
or any combination of goods by only 3.8 percent. Thus, 3.8 percent is what you are really
earning through your savings account, after adjusting for inflation. Economists refer to the
3.8-percent number as the real interest rate. Economists refer to the 10-percent rate as the
nominal interest rate or simply the interest rate. This discussion is illustrated in Figure 7.1.
We have used an example with a specific nominal interest rate and a specific inflation
rate. In general, the formula between real and nominal cash flows can be written as 
1  Nominal interest rate  (1  Real interest rate)  (1  Inflation rate)
Rearranging terms, we have
(7.1)
The formula indicates that the real interest rate in our example is 3.8 percent (1.10/1.06  1).
The above formula determines the real interest rate precisely. The following formula is
an approximation:
Real interest rate  Nominal interest rate  Inflation rate
(7.2)
The symbol  indicates that the equation is approximately true. This latter formula calcu-
lates the real rate in our example as:
4%  10%  6%
The student should be aware that, while equation (7.2) may seem more intuitive than equa-
tion (7.1), (7.2) is only an approximation.
This approximation is reasonably accurate for low rates of interest and inflation. In our
example, the difference between the approximate calculation and the exact one is only .2
percent (4 percent  3.8 percent). Unfortunately, the approximation becomes poor when
rates are higher.
Real interest rate  1  Nominal interest rate
1  Inflation rate
 1
Chapter 7
Net Present Value and Capital Budgeting
179
Date 0
Date 1
Individual invests
$1,000 in bank
Individual receives
$1,100 from bank
Inflation rate
has been
6% over year
(Because hamburgers sell
for $1 at date 0, $1,000
would have purchased
1,000 hamburgers.)
Because each hamburger
sells for $1.06 at date 1,
1,038 (= $1,100/$1.06)
hamburgers can be
purchased.
Interest rate
3.8%
10%
I FIGURE 7.1 Calculation of Real Rate of Interest
Hamburger is used as illustrative good. 1,038 hamburgers can be purchased on date 1
instead of 1,000 hamburgers at date 0. Real interest rate  1,038/1,000  1  3.8%.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
186
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
The little-known monarchy of Gerberovia recently had a nominal interest rate of
300 percent and an inflation rate of 280 percent. According to equation (7.2), the
real interest rate is:
300%  280%  20%
(Approximate formula)
However, according to equation (7.1), this rate is:
(Exact formula)
The recent real and nominal interest rates for the United States are illustrated in Figure 7.2.
The figure suggests that the nominal rate of interest exhibits more variability from year to year
than does the real rate, a finding that seems to hold over most time periods.
Cash Flow and Inflation
The above analysis defines two types of interest rates, nominal rates and real rates, and relates
them through equation (7.1). Capital budgeting requires data on cash flows as well as on in-
terest rates. Like interest rates, cash flows can be expressed in either nominal or real terms.
A cash flow is expressed in nominal terms if the actual dollars to be received (or paid out)
are given. A cash flow is expressed in real terms if the current or date 0 purchasing power of
the cash flow is given. Like most definitions, these definitions are best explained by examples.
1  300%
1  280%  1  5.26%
180
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
U.S. Treasury bills and rate
Inflation (CPI)
U.S real risk-free return
20
15
10
Percentage
5
0
–5
–10
Year (1950 – 2000)
78
76
74
72
70
68
66
64
62
60
58
56
54
52
50
98
96
94
92
90
88
86
84
82
80
2000
I FIGURE 7.2 Nominal and Real Interest Rates and Inflation for the
United States
Nominal interest rates are based on three-month Treasury bills (or equivalent). The measure of inflation used is
the Consumer Price Index. Real rates are calculated according to equation (7.1).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
187
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
Burrows Publishing has just purchased the rights to the next book of famed ro-
mantic novelist Barbara Musk. Still unwritten, the book should be available to the
public in four years. Currently, romantic novels sell for $10.00 in softcover. The
publishers believe that inflation will be 6 percent a year over the next four years.
Since romantic novels are so popular, the publishers anticipate that the prices of
romantic novels will rise about 2 percent per year more than the inflation rate over
the next four years. Not wanting to overprice, Burrows Publishing plans to sell the
novel at $13.60 [(1.08)4  $10.00] four years from now. The firm anticipates sell-
ing 100,000 copies.
The expected cash flow in the fourth year of $1.36 million ($13.60  100,000)
is a nominal cash flow. That is because the firm expects to receive $1.36 million at
that time. In other words, a nominal cash flow reflects the actual dollars to be re-
ceived in the future.
We determine the purchasing power of $1.36 million in four years as
The figure $1.08 million is a real cash flow since it is expressed in terms of
date 0 purchasing power. Extending our hamburger example, the $1.36 mil-
lion to be received in four years will only buy 1.08 million hamburgers be-
cause the price of a hamburger will rise from $1 to $1.26 [$1  (1.06)4] over
the period.
EXAMPLE
EOBII Publishers, a competitor of Burrows, recently bought a printing press for
$2,000,000 to be depreciated by the straight-line method over five years. This im-
plies yearly depreciation of $400,000 ($2,000,000/5). Is this $400,000 figure a real
or nominal quantity?
Depreciation is a nominal quantity because $400,000 is the actual tax deduc-
tion over each of the next four years. Depreciation becomes a real quantity if it is
adjusted for purchasing power. Hence, $316,837 ($400,000/(1.06)4) is deprecia-
tion in the fourth year, expressed as a real quantity.
Discounting: Nominal or Real?
Our previous discussion showed that interest rates can be expressed in either nominal or
real terms. Similarly, cash flows can be expressed in either nominal or real terms. Given
these choices, how should one express interest rates and cash flows when performing cap-
ital budgeting?
Financial practitioners correctly stress the need to maintain consistency between cash
flows and discount rates. That is,
Nominal cash flows must be discounted at the nominal rate.
Real cash flows must be discounted at the real rate.
$1.08 million  $1.36 million
1.06 4
Chapter 7
Net Present Value and Capital Budgeting
181

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
188
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
Shields Electric forecasts the following nominal cash flows on a particular project:
Date:
0
1
2
Cash flow
$1,000
$600
$650
The nominal interest rate is 14 percent, and the inflation rate is forecast to be 5 per-
cent. What is the value of the project?
Using Nominal Quantities
The NPV can be calculated as
The project should be accepted.
Using Real Quantities
The real cash flows are
Date:
0
1
2
Cash flow
$1,000
$571.43
$589.57
The real interest rate is 8.57143 percent (1.14/1.05  1).
The NPV can be calculated as
The NPV is the same when cash flows are expressed in real quantities. It must al-
ways be the case that the NPV is the same under the two different approaches.
Because both approaches always yield the same result, which one should be
used? Students will be happy to hear the following rule: Use the approach that is
simpler. Since the Shields Electric case begins with nominal cash flows, nominal
quantities produce a simpler calculation here.
EXAMPLE
Altshuler, Inc., used the following data for a capital budgeting project:
Year
0
1
2
Capital expenditure
$1,210
Revenues (in real terms)
$1,900
$2,000
Cash expenses (in real terms)
950
1,000
Depreciation (straight line)
605
605
The president, David Altshuler, estimates inflation to be 10 percent per year over
the next two years. In addition, he believes that the cash flows of the project should
be discounted at the nominal rate of 15.5 percent. His firm’s tax rate is 40 percent.
$26.47   $1,000 
$571.43
1.0857143 
$589.57
1.0857143 2

$650
1.05 2

$600
1.05
$26.47   $1,000  $600
1.14  $650
1.14 2
182
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
189
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Mr. Altshuler forecasts all cash flows in nominal terms. Thus, he generates the
following spreadsheet:
Year
0
1
2
Capital expenditure
$1,210
Revenues
$2,090 ( 1,900  1.10)
$2,420 ( 2,000  (1.10)2)
Expenses
1,045 ( 950  1.10)
1,210 ( 1,000  (1.10)2)
Depreciation
605 ( 1.210/2)
605
________________
_____
_____
Taxable income
440
605
Taxes (40%)
176
242
________________
_____
_____
Income after taxes
264
363
Depreciation
605
605
________________
_____
_____
Cash flow
$ 869
$ 968
Mr. Altshuler’s sidekick, Stuart Weiss, prefers working in real terms. He first cal-
culates the real rate to be 5 percent ( 1.155/1.10  1). Next, he generates the fol-
lowing spreadsheet in real quantities:
Year
0
1
2
Capital expenditure
$1,210
Revenues
$1,900
$2,000
Expenses
950
1,000
Depreciation
550 ( 605/1.1)
500 ( 605/1.1)2)
________________
_____
______
Taxable income
400
500
Taxes (40%)
160
200
________________
_____
______
Income after taxes
240
300
Depreciation
550
500
________________
_____
______
Cash flow
$ 790
$ 800
In explaining his calculations to Mr. Altshuler, Mr. Weiss points out:
1. Since the capital expenditure occurs at date 0 (today), its nominal value and its
real value are equal.
2. Since yearly depreciation of $605 is a nominal quantity, one converts it to a real
quantity by discounting at the inflation rate of 10 percent.
3. It is no coincidence that both Mr. Altshuler and Mr. Weiss arrive at the same
NPV number. Both methods must always give the same NPV.
• What is the difference between the nominal and the real interest rate?
• What is the difference between nominal and real cash flows?
NPV   $1,210  $790
1.05  $800
1.05 2  $268
NPV   $1,210  $869
1.155 
$968
1.155 2  $268
Chapter 7
Net Present Value and Capital Budgeting
183
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
190
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
7.4 INVESTMENTS OF UNEQUAL LIVES: THE EQUIVALENT
ANNUAL COST METHOD
Suppose a firm must choose between two machines of unequal lives. Both machines can do
the same job, but they have different operating costs and will last for different time periods.
A simple application of the NPV rule suggests that we should take the machine whose costs
have the lower present value. This could lead to the wrong decision, though, because the
lower-cost machine may need to be replaced before the other one. If we are choosing be-
tween two mutually exclusive projects that have different lives, the projects must be evalu-
ated on an equal-life basis. In other words, we must devise a method that takes into account
all future replacement decisions. We first discuss the classic replacement-chain problem.
Next, a more difficult replacement decision is examined.
Replacement Chain
EXAMPLE
Downtown Athletic Club must choose between two mechanical tennis ball throw-
ers. Machine A costs less than machine B but will not last as long. The cash out-
flows from the two machines are:
Date
Machine
0
1
2
3
4
A
$500
$120
$120
$120
B
600
100
100
100
$100
Machine A costs $500 and lasts three years. There will be maintenance expenses
of $120 to be paid at the end of each of the three years. Machine B costs $600 and
lasts four years. There will be maintenance expenses of $100 to be paid at the end
of each of the four years. We place all costs in real terms, an assumption greatly
simplifying the analysis. Revenues per year are assumed to be the same, regard-
less of machine, so they are ignored in the analysis. Note that all numbers in the
above chart are outflows.
To get a handle on the decision, we take the present value of the costs of each of the
two machines:
Machine A: $798.42
(7.3)
Machine B: $916.99
Machine B has a higher present value of outflows. A naive approach would be to select ma-
chine A because of the lower outflows. However, machine B has a longer life so perhaps its
cost per year is actually lower. How might one properly adjust for the difference in useful
life when comparing the two machines? We present two methods.
1. Matching Cycles. Suppose that we run the example for 12 years. Machine A would
have four complete cycles in this case and machine B would have three, so a comparison
would be appropriate. Consider machine A’s second cycle. The replacement of machine A
 $600  $100
1.1  $100
1.1 2  $100
1.1 3  $100
1.1 4
 $500  $120
1.1  $120
1.1 2  $120
1.1 3
184
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
191
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
occurs at date 3. Thus, another $500 must be paid at date 3 with the yearly maintenance cost
of $120 payable at dates 4, 5, and 6. Another cycle begins at date 6 and a final cycle begins
at date 9. Our present value analysis of (7.3) tells us that the payments in the first cycle are
equivalent to a payment of $798.42 at date 0. Similarly, the payments from the second cy-
cle are equivalent to a payment of $798.42 at date 3. Carrying this out for all four cycles,
the present value of all costs from machine A over 12 years is
Present Value of Costs of Machine A over 12 Years:
(7.4)
Now consider machine B’s second cycle. The replacement of machine B occurs at date
4. Thus, another $600 must be paid at this time, with yearly maintenance costs of $100
payable at dates 5, 6, 7, and 8. A third cycle completes the 12 years. Following our calcu-
lations for machine A, the present value of all costs from machine B over 12 years is
Present Value of Costs of Machine B over 12 Years:
Because both machines have complete cycles over the 12 years, a comparison of 12-year
costs is appropriate. The present value of machine B’s costs is lower than the present value
of machine A’s costs over the 12 years, implying that machine B should be chosen.
While the above approach is straightforward, it has one drawback: Sometimes the num-
ber of cycles is high, demanding an excessive amount of calculating time. For example, if ma-
chine C lasts for seven years and machine D lasts for 11 years, these two machines must be
compared over a period of 77 (7  11) years. And if machines C, D, and E are compared, where
machine E has a four-year cycle, a complete set of cycles occurs over 308 (7  11  4) years.
Therefore, we offer the following alternative approach.
2. Equivalent Annual Cost. Equation (7.3) showed that payments of ($500, $120,
$120, $120) are equivalent to a single payment of $798.42 at date 0. We now wish to equate
the single payment of $798.42 at date 0 with a three-year annuity. Using techniques of pre-
vious chapters, we have
is an annuity of $1 a year for three years, discounted at 10 percent. C is the 
unknown—the annuity payment per year that causes the present value of all payments to
equal $798.42. Because 
equals 2.4869, C equals $321.05 ($798.42/2.4869). Thus, a
payment stream of ($500, $120, $120, $120) is equivalent to annuity payments of $321.05
made at the end of each year for three years. Of course, this calculation assumes only one
cycle of machine A. Use of machine A over many cycles is equivalent to annual payments
of $321.05 for an indefinite period into the future. We refer to $321.05 as the equivalent
annual cost of machine A.
Now let us turn to machine B. We calculate its equivalent annual cost from
Because 
equals 3.1699, C equals $916.99/3.1699, or $289.28.
The following chart facilitates a comparison of machine A with machine B.
Date
0
1
2
3
4
5
. . .
Machine A
$321.05
$321.05
$321.05
$321.05
$321.05 . . .
Machine B
289.28
289.28
289.28
289.28
289.28 . . .
A 4
0.10
$916.99  C  A 4
0.10
A 3
0.10
A 3
0.10
$798.42  C  A 3
0.10
$1,971  $916.99  $916.99
1.10 4  $916.99
1.10 8
$2,188  $798.42  $798.42
1.10 3  $798.42
1.10 6  $798.42
1.10 9
Chapter 7
Net Present Value and Capital Budgeting
185

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
192
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Repeated cycles of machine A give rise to yearly payments of $321.05 for an indefinite pe-
riod into the future. Repeated cycles of machine B give rise to yearly payments of $289.28
for an indefinite period into the future. Clearly, machine B is preferred to machine A.
So far, we have presented two approaches: matching cycles and equivalent annual
costs. Machine B was preferred under both methods. The two approaches are simply dif-
ferent ways of presenting the same information so that, for problems of this type, the same
machine must be preferred under both approaches. In other words, use whichever method
is easier for you since the decision will always be the same.
Assumptions in Replacement Chains
Strictly speaking, the two approaches make sense
only if the time horizon is a multiple of 12 years. However, if the time horizon is long, but
not known precisely, these approaches should still be satisfactory in practice.
The problem comes in if the time horizon is short. Suppose that the Downtown
Athletic Club knows that a new machine will come on the market at date 5. The machine
will be incredibly cheap and virtually maintenance-free, implying that it will replace ei-
ther machine A or machine B immediately. Furthermore, its cheapness implies no salvage
value for either A or B.
The relevant cash flows for A and B are
Date
0
1
2
3
4
5
Machine A
$500
$120
$120
$120  $500
$120
$120
Machine B
600
100
100
100
100  600
100
Note the double cost of machine A at date 3. This occurs because machine A must be replaced
at that time. However, maintenance costs still continue, because machine A remains in ser-
vice until the day of its replacement. Similarly, there is a double cost of machine B at date 4.
Present values are
Present Value of Costs of Machine A:
Present Value of Costs of Machine B:
Thus, machine B is more costly. Why is machine B more costly here when it is less costly
under strict replacement-chain assumptions? Machine B is hurt more than machine A by the
termination at date 5 because B’s second cycle ends at date 8 while A’s second cycle ends
at date 6.3
One final remark: Our analysis of replacement chains applies only if one anticipates
replacement. The analysis would be different if no replacement were possible. This would
occur if the only company that manufactured tennis ball throwers just went out of business
and no new producers are expected to enter the field. In this case, machine B would gener-
ate revenues in the fourth year whereas machine A would not. In that case, simple net pres-
ent value analysis for mutually exclusive projects including both revenues and costs would
be appropriate.
$1,389  $600  $100
1.10  $100
1.10 2  $100
1.10 3  $700
1.10 4  $100
1.10 5
$1,331  $500  $120
1.10  $120
1.10 2  $620
1.10 3  $120
1.10 4  $120
1.10 5
186
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
3This reminds us of the famous New Yorker joke where two businessmen-types are conversing in heaven. One
turns to the other and says, “The thing that gets me is that I still had 40,000 miles left on my radial tires.”

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
193
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The General Decision to Replace (Advanced)
The previous analysis concerned the choice between machine A and machine B, both of
which were new acquisitions. More typically, firms must decide when to replace an exist-
ing machine with a new one. The analysis is actually quite straightforward. First, one cal-
culates the equivalent annual cost (EAC) for the new equipment. Second, one calculates the
yearly cost for the old equipment. This cost likely rises over time because the machine’s
maintenance expense should increase with age. Replacement should occur right before the
cost of the old equipment exceeds the EAC on the new equipment. As with much else in fi-
nance, an example clarifies this criterion better than further explanation.
EXAMPLE
Consider the situation of BIKE. BIKE is contemplating whether to replace an ex-
isting machine or to spend money overhauling it. BIKE currently pays no taxes.
The replacement machine costs $9,000 now and requires maintenance of $1,000
at the end of every year for eight years. At the end of eight years it would have a
salvage value of $2,000 and would be sold. The existing machine requires in-
creasing amounts of maintenance each year, and its salvage value falls each year,
as shown:
Year
Maintenance
Salvage
Present
$
0
$4,000
1
1,000
2,500
2
2,000
1,500
3
3,000
1,000
4
4,000
0
The existing machine can be sold for $4,000 now. If it is sold in one year, the re-
sale price will be $2,500, and $1,000 must be spent on maintenance during the
year to keep it running. For ease of calculation, we assume that this maintenance
fee is paid at the end of the year. The machine will last for four more years before
it falls apart. If BIKE faces an opportunity cost of capital of 15 percent, when
should it replace the machine?
Equivalent Annual Cost of New Machine
The present value of the cost of the new
replacement machine is as follows:
Notice that the $2,000 salvage value is an inflow. It is treated as a negative num-
ber in the above equation because it offsets the cost of the machine.
The EAC of a new replacement machine equals
Cost of Old Machine
If the new machine is purchased immediately, the existing ma-
chine can be sold for $4,000 today. Thus, a cost of keeping the existing machine for
one more year is that BIKE must forgo receiving the $4,000 today. This $4,000 is an
PV8-year annuity factor at 15%  PV
A 8
0.15
 $12,833
4.4873  $2,860
  $12,833
  $9,000  $1,000  4.4873  $2,000  0.3269
 PVcosts  $9,000  $1,000  A 8
0.15  $2,000
1.15 8
Chapter 7
Net Present Value and Capital Budgeting
187

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
194
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
opportunity cost. The total cost of keeping the existing machine one more year includes
the following:
1. The opportunity cost of not selling it now ($4,000).
2. Additional maintenance ($1,000).
3. Salvage value ($2,500).
Thus, the PV of the costs of keeping the machine one more year and selling it equals
While we normally express cash flows in terms of present value, the analysis to
come is made easier if we express the cash flow in terms of its future value one
year from now. This future value is 
$2,696  1.15  $3,100
In other words, the equivalent cost of keeping the machine for one year is $3,100
at the end of the year.
Making the Comparison
If we replace the machine immediately, we can view our
annual expense as $2,860, beginning at the end of the year. This annual expense occurs
forever, if we replace the new machine every eight years.
This cash flow stream can be written as
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
. . .
Expenses from replacing 
machine immediately
$2,860
$2,860
$2,860
$2,860
. . .
If we replace the old machine in one year, our expense from using the old ma-
chine for that final year can be viewed as $3,100, payable at the end of the year.
After replacement, we can view our annual expense as $2,860, beginning at the
end of two years. This annual expense occurs forever, if we replace the new ma-
chine every eight years. This cash flow stream can be written as
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
. . .
Expenses from using old machine for 
one year and then replacing it
$3,100
$2,860
$2,860
$2,860
. . .
BIKE should replace the old machine immediately in order to minimize the ex-
pense at year 1.
One caveat is in order. Perhaps the old machine’s maintenance is high in the first
year but drops after that. A decision to replace immediately might be premature in
that case. Therefore, we need to check the cost of the old machine in future years.
The cost of keeping the existing machine a second year is
which has future value of $3,375 ($2,935  1.15).
The costs of keeping the existing machine for years 3 and 4 are also greater
than the EAC of buying a new machine. Thus, BIKE’s decision to replace the old
machine immediately still is valid.
PV of costs at time 1  $2,500  $2,000
1.15
 $1,500
1.15
 $2,935
$4,000  $1,000
1.15
 $2,500
1.15
 $2,696
188
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
195
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
• What is the equivalent annual cost method of capital budgeting?
• Can you list the assumptions that we must make to use EAC?
7.5 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
This chapter discusses a number of practical applications of capital budgeting.
1. Capital budgeting must be placed on an incremental basis. This means that sunk costs must
be ignored, while both opportunity costs and side effects must be considered.
2. In the Baldwin case, we computed NPV using the following two steps:
a. Calculate the net cash flow from all sources for each period.
b. Calculate the NPV using the cash flows calculated above.
3. Inflation must be handled consistently. One approach is to express both cash flows and the
discount rate in nominal terms. The other approach is to express both cash flow and the
discount rate in real terms. Because either approach yields the same NPV calculation, the
simpler method should be used. The simpler method will generally depend on the type of
capital budgeting problem.
4. When a firm must choose between two machines of unequal lives, the firm can apply either
the matching cycle approach or the equivalent annual cost approach. Since both approaches
are different ways of presenting the same information, the same machine must be preferred
under both approaches.
KEY TERMS
Erosion
171
Opportunity cost
170
Net working capital
172
Real cash flow
181
Nominal cash flow
181
Real interest rate
179
Nominal interest rate
179
Sunk cost
170
SUGGESTED READING
An excellent in-depth examination of the capital budgeting decision is contained in:
Copeland, T., T. Koller, and J. Murrin. Valuation: Measuring and Managing the Value of
Companies, 2nd ed. The McKinsey Company, 1994.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
NPV and Capital Budgeting
7.1 Which of the following cash flows should be treated as incremental cash flows when
computing the NPV of an investment?
a. The reduction in the sales of the company’s other products.
b. The expenditure on plant and equipment.
Chapter 7
Net Present Value and Capital Budgeting
189
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
196
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
c. The cost of research and development undertaken in connection with the product during
the past three years.
d. The annual depreciation expense.
e. Dividend payments.
f. The resale value of plant and equipment at the end of the project’s life.
g. Salary and medical costs for production employees on leave.
7.2 Your company currently produces and sells steel-shaft golf clubs. The Board of Directors
wants you to look at introducing a new line of titanium bubble woods with graphite shaft.
Which of the following costs are not relevant?
I. Land you already own that will be used for the project and has a market value of
$700,000.
II. $300,000 drop in sales of steel-shaft clubs if titanium woods with graphite shaft are
introduced.
III. $200,000 spent on Research and Development last year on graphite shafts.
a. I only
b. II only
c. III only
d. I and III only
e. II and III only
7.3 The Best Manufacturing Company is considering a new investment. Financial projections
for the investment are tabulated below. (Cash flows are in $ thousands and the corporate tax
rate is 34 percent.)
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Sales revenue
7,000
7,000
7,000
7,000
Operating costs
2,000
2,000
2,000
2,000
Investment
10,000
Depreciation
2,500
2,500
2,500
2,500
Net working capital
200
250
300
200
0
(end of year)
a. Compute the incremental net income of the investment.
b. Compute the incremental cash flows of the investment.
c. Suppose the appropriate discount rate is 12 percent. What is the NPV of the project?
7.4 According to the February 7, 1983, issue of The Sporting News, the Kansas City Royals’
designated hitter, Hal McRae, signed a three-year contract in January 1983 with the
following provisions:
• $400,000 signing bonus.
• $250,000 salary per year for three years.
• 10 years of deferred payments of $125,000 per year (these payments begin in year 4).
• Several bonus provisions that total as much as $75,000 per year for the three years of the
contract.
Assume that McRae has a 60-percent probability of receiving the bonuses each year, and
that he signed the contract on January 1, 1983. (Hint: Use the expected bonuses as
incremental cash flows.) Assume an effective annual interest rate of 12.36 percent, and
ignore taxes. McRae’s salary and bonus are paid at the end of the year. What was the
present value of this contract in January when McRae signed it?
7.5 Benson Enterprises, Inc., is evaluating alternative uses for a three-story manufacturing and
warehousing building that it has purchased for $225,000. The company could continue to
rent the building to the present occupants for $12,000 per year. The present occupants have
indicated an interest in staying in the building for at least another 15 years. Alternatively,
the company could modify the existing structure to use for its own manufacturing and
warehousing needs. Benson’s production engineer feels the building could be adapted to
190
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
197
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
handle one of two new product lines. The cost and revenue data for the two product
alternatives follow.
Product A
Product B
Initial cash outlay for building modifications
$ 36,000
$ 54,000
Initial cash outlay for equipment
144,000
162,000
Annual pretax cash revenues (generated for 15 years)
105,000
127,500
Annual pretax cash expenditures (generated for 15 years)
60,000
75,000
The building will be used for only 15 years for either product A or product B. After 15
years, the building will be too small for efficient production of either product line. At that
time, Benson plans to rent the building to firms similar to the current occupants. To rent the
building again, Benson will need to restore the building to its present layout. The estimated
cash cost of restoring the building if product A has been undertaken is $3,750; if product B
has been produced, the cash cost will be $28,125. These cash costs can be deducted for tax
purposes in the year the expenditures occur.
Benson will depreciate the original building shell (purchased for $225,000) over a 30-
year life to zero, regardless of which alternative it chooses. The building modifications and
equipment purchases for either product are estimated to have a 15-year life; also, they can
and will be depreciated on a straight-line basis. The firm’s tax rate is 34 percent, and its
required rate of return on such investments is 12 percent.
For simplicity, assume all cash flows for a given year occur at the end of the year. The
initial outlays for modifications and equipment will occur at t  0, and the restoration
outlays will occur at the end of year 15. Also, Benson has other profitable ongoing
operations that are sufficient to cover any losses.
Which use of the building would you recommend to management?
7.6 Samsung International has rice fields in California that are expected to produce average
annual profits of $800,000 in real terms forever. Samsung has no depreciable assets and is
an all-equity firm with 200,000 shares outstanding. The appropriate discount rate for its
stock is 12 percent. Samsung has an investment opportunity with a gross present value of $1
million. The investment requires a $400,000 outlay now. Samsung has no other investment
opportunities. Assume that all cash flows are received at the end of each year. What is the
price per share of Samsung?
7.7 Dickinson Brothers, Inc., is considering investing in a machine to produce computer
keyboards. The price of the machine will be $400,000 and its economic life five years. The
machine will be fully depreciated by the straight-line method. The machine will produce
10,000 units of keyboards each year. The price of the keyboard will be $40 in the first year,
and it will increase at 5 percent per year. The production cost per unit of the keyboard will
be $20 in the first year, and it will increase at 10 percent per year. The corporate tax rate for
the company is 34 percent. If the appropriate discount rate is 15 percent, what is the NPV of
the investment?
7.8 Scott Investors, Inc., is considering the purchase of a $500,000 computer that has an
economic life of five years. The computer will be depreciated based on the system enacted
by the Tax Reform Act of 1986. (See Table 7.3 for the depreciation schedules.) The market
value of the computer will be $100,000 in five years. The use of the computer will save five
office employees whose annual salaries are $120,000. It also contributes to lower net
working capital by $100,000 when they buy the computer. The net working capital will be
recovered at the end of the period. The corporate tax rate is 34 percent. Is it worthwhile to
buy the computer if the appropriate discount rate is 12 percent?
7.9 The Gap is considering buying an on-line cash register software from IBM so that it
can effectively deal with its retail sales. The software package costs $750,000 and will
be depreciated down to zero using the straight-line method over its five-year economic
life. The marketing department predicts that sales will be $600,000 per year for the
next three years, after which the market will cease to exist. Cost of goods sold and 
Chapter 7
Net Present Value and Capital Budgeting
191

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
198
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
operating expenses are predicted to be 25 percent of sales. After three years the software
can be sold for $40,000. The Gap also needs to add net working capital of $25,000
immediately. This additional net working capital will be recovered in full at the end of the
project life. The corporate tax rate for Gap is 35 percent and the required rate of return on
it is 17 percent. What is the NPV of the new software?
7.10 Etonic Inc. is considering an investment of $250,000 in an asset with an economic life of
five years. The firm estimates that the nominal annual cash revenues and expenses will be
$200,000 and $50,000, respectively. Both revenues and expenses are expected to grow at 
3 percent per year as that of the expected annual inflation. Etonic will use straight-line
method to depreciate its asset to zero over the economic life. The salvage value of the asset
is estimated to be $30,000 in nominal terms at the end of five years. The one-time NWC
investment of $10,000 is required immediately. Further, the nominal discount rate for all
cash flows is 15 percent. All corporate cash flows are subject to a 35 percent tax rate. All
cash flows, except the initial investment and the NWC, occur at the end of the year. What
is the project’s total nominal cash flow from assets in year 5?
7.11 Commercial Real Estate, Inc., is considering the purchase of a $4 million building to lease.
The economic life of the building will be 20 years. Assume that the building will be fully
depreciated by the straight-line method and its market value in 20 years will be zero. The
company expects that annual lease payments will increase at 3 percent per year. The
appropriate discount rate for cash flows of lease payments is 13 percent, while the
discount rate for depreciation is 9 percent. The corporate tax rate is 34 percent. What is the
least Commercial Real Estate should ask for the first-year lease? Assume that the annual
lease payment starts right after the signature of the lease contract.
7.12 Royal Dutch Petroleum is considering going into a new project, which is typical for the
firm. A capital tool required for the project costs $2 million. The marketing department
predicts that sales will be $1.2 million per year for the next four years, after which the
market will cease to exist. The tool, a five-year class capital tool, will be depreciated down
to zero using the straight-line method. Cost of goods sold and operating expenses are
predicted to be 25 percent of sales. After four years the tool can be sold for $150,000.
Royal Dutch also needs to add net working capital of $100,000 immediately. This
additional capital will be received in full at the end of the project life. The tax rate for
Royal Dutch is 35 percent. The required rate of return on Royal Dutch is 16.55 percent.
Capital Budgeting with Inflation
7.13 Consider the following cash flows on two mutually exclusive projects.
Year
Project A
Project B
0
$40,000
$50,000
1
20,000
10,000
2
15,000
20,000
3
15,000
40,000
Cash flows of project A are expressed in real terms while those of project B are expressed
in nominal terms. The appropriate nominal discount rate is 15 percent, and the inflation is
4 percent. Which project should you choose?
7.14 Sanders Enterprises, Inc., has been considering the purchase of a new manufacturing
facility for $120,000. The facility is to be depreciated on a seven-year basis. It is expected
to have no value after seven years. Operating revenues from the facility are expected to be
$50,000 in the first year. The revenues are expected to increase at the inflation rate of 5
percent. Production costs in the first year are $20,000, and they are expected to increase at
7 percent per year. The real discount rate for risky cash flows is 14 percent, while the
nominal riskless interest rate is 10 percent. The corporate tax rate is 34 percent. Should the
company accept the suggestion?
192
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
199
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
7.15 Phillips Industries runs a small manufacturing operation. For this year, it expects to have
real net cash flows of $120,000. Phillips is an ongoing operation, but it expects
competitive pressures to erode its (inflation-adjusted) net cash flows at 6 percent per year.
The appropriate real discount rate for Phillips is 11 percent. All net cash flows are received
at year-end. What is the present value of the net cash flows from Phillips’s operations?
7.16 Harry Gultekin, a small restaurant owner/manager, is contemplating the purchase of a larger
restaurant from its owner who is retiring. Gultekin would finance the purchase by selling his
existing small restaurant, taking a second mortgage on his house, selling the stocks and
bonds that he owns, and, if necessary, taking out a bank loan. Because Gultekin would have
almost all of his wealth in the restaurant, he wants a careful analysis of how much he should
be willing to pay for the business. The present owner of the larger restaurant has supplied
the following information about the restaurant from the past five years.
Year
Gross Revenue
Profit
5
$875,000
$ 62,000
4
883,000
28,000
3
828,000
4,400
2
931,000
96,000
Last
998,000
103,000
As with many small businesses, the larger restaurant is structured as a Subchapter 
S corporation. This structure gives the owner the advantage of limited liability, but the
pretax profits flow directly through to the owner, without any corporate tax deducted. The
preceding figures have not been adjusted for changes in the price level. There is general
agreement that the average profits for the past five years are representative of what can be
expected in the future, after adjusting for inflation.
Gultekin is of the opinion that he could earn at least $3,000 in current dollars per
month as a hired manager. Gultekin feels he should subtract this amount from profits when
analyzing the venture. Furthermore, he is aware of statistics showing that for restaurants of
this size, approximately 6 percent of owners go out of business each year.
Gultekin has done some preliminary work to value the business. His analysis is as follows:
Price-Level
Profits
Imputed Managerial
Net
Year
Profits
Factor
(current dollars)
Wage
Profits
5
$ 62,000
1.28
$ 79,400
$36,000
$ 43,400
4
28,000
1.18
33,000
36,000
3,000
3
4,400
1.09
4,800
36,000
31,200
2
96,000
1.04
99,800
36,000
63,800
Last
103,000
1.00
103,000
36,000
67,000
The average profits for the past five years, expressed in current dollars, are $28,000. Using
this average profit figure, Gultekin produced the following figures. These figures are in
current dollars.
Expected Profits
Risk-
Real
if Business
Probability
Adjusted
Discount
Present
Year
Continues
of Cont.*
Profits
Factor 2%
Value
Next
$28,000
1.000
$28,000
0.980
$27,400
2
28,000
0.940
26,300
0.961
25,300
3
28,000
0.884
24,700
0.942
23,300
4
28,000
0.831
23,300
0.924
21,500
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
*Probability of the business continuing. The probability of failing in any year is 6 percent. That
probability compounds over the years.
Chapter 7
Net Present Value and Capital Budgeting
193

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
200
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Based on these calculations, Gultekin has calculated that the value of the restaurant is
$350,000.
a. Assume that there is indeed a 6 percent per year probability of going out of business.
Do you agree with Gultekin’s assessment of the restaurant? In your answer, consider
his treatment of inflation, his deduction of the managerial wage of $3,000 per month,
and the manner in which he assessed risk.
b. What present value would you place on the revenue stream; in other words, how much
would you advise Gultekin that he should be willing to pay for the restaurant?
7.17 The Biological Insect Control Corporation (BICC) has hired you as a consultant to
evaluate the NPV of their proposed toad ranch. BICC plans to breed toads and sell them as
ecologically desirable insect-control mechanisms. They anticipate that the business will
continue in perpetuity. Following negligible start-up costs, BICC will incur the following
nominal cash flows at the end of the year.
Revenues
$150,000
Labor costs
80,000
Other costs
40,000
The company will lease machinery from a firm for $20,000 per year. (The lease payment
starts at the end of year 1.) The payments of the lease are fixed in nominal terms. Sales
will increase at 5 percent per year in real terms. Labor costs will increase at 3 percent per
year in real terms. Other costs will decrease at 1 percent per year in real terms. The rate of
inflation is expected to be 6 percent per year. The real rate of discount for revenues and
costs is 10 percent. The lease payments are risk-free; therefore, they must be discounted at
the risk-free rate. The real risk-free rate is 7 percent. There are no taxes. All cash flows
occur at year-end. What is the NPV of BICC’s proposed toad ranch today?
7.18 Sony International has an investment opportunity to produce a new stereo color TV. The
required investment on January 1 of this year is $32 million. The firm will depreciate the
investment to zero using the straight-line method. The firm is in the 34-percent tax bracket.
The price of the product on January 1 will be $400 per unit. That price will stay constant
in real terms. Labor costs will be $15 per hour on January 1. They will increase at 2
percent per year in real terms. Energy costs will be $5 per physical unit on January 1; they
will increase at 3 percent per year in real terms. The inflation rate is 5 percent. Revenues
are received and costs are paid at year-end.
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Physical production, in units
100,000
200,000
200,000
150,000
Labor input, in hours
2,000,000
2,000,000
2,000,000
2,000,000
Energy input, physical units
200,000
200,000
200,000
200,000
The riskless nominal discount rate is 4 percent. The real discount rate for costs and
revenues is 8 percent. Calculate the NPV of this project.
7.19 Sparkling Water, Inc., sells 2 million bottles of drinking water each year. Each bottle sells
at $2.5 in real terms and costs per bottle are $0.7 in real terms. Sales income and costs
occur at year-end. Sales income is expected to rise at a real rate of 7 percent annually,
while real costs are expected to rise at 5 percent annually. The relevant, real discount rate
is 10 percent. The corporate tax rate is 34 percent. What is Sparkling worth today?
7.20 International Buckeyes is building a factory that can make 1 million buckeyes a year for five
years. The factory costs $6 million. In year 1, each buckeye will sell for $3.15 in nominal
terms. The price will rise 5 percent each year in real terms. During the first year variable
costs will be $0.2625 per buckeye in nominal terms and will rise by 2 percent each year in
real terms. International Buckeyes will depreciate the value of the factory to zero over the
five years by use of the straight-line method. International Buckeyes expects to be able to
sell the factory for $638,140.78 at the end of year 5 (or $500,000 in real terms). The
194
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
201
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
nominal discount rate for risky cash flows is 20 percent. The nominal discount rate for
riskless cash flows is 11 percent. The rate of inflation is 5 percent. Cash flows, except the
initial investment, occur at the end of the year. The corporate tax rate is 34 percent; capital
gains are also taxed at 34 percent. What is the net present value of this project?
7.21 Majestic Mining Company (MMC) is negotiating for the purchase of a new piece of
equipment for their current operations. MMC wants to know the maximum price that it
should be willing to pay for the equipment. That is, how high must the price be for the
equipment to have an NPV of zero? You are given the following facts:
a. The new equipment would replace existing equipment that has a current market value
of $20,000.
b. The new equipment would not affect revenues, but before-tax operating costs would be
reduced by $10,000 per year for eight years. These savings in cost would occur at year-end.
c. The old equipment is now five years old. It is expected to last for another eight years, and
it is expected to have no resale value at the end of those eight years. It was purchased for
$40,000 and is being depreciated to zero on a straight-line basis over 10 years.
d. The new equipment will be depreciated to zero using straight-line depreciation over
five years. MMC expects to be able to sell the equipment for $5,000 at the end of eight
years. The proceeds from this sale would be subject to taxes at the ordinary corporate
income tax rate of 34 percent.
e. MMC has profitable ongoing operations.
f. The appropriate discount rate is 8 percent.
7.22 After extensive medical and marketing research, Pill, Inc., believes it can penetrate the pain
reliever market. It can follow one of two strategies. The first is to manufacture a medication
aimed at relieving headache pain. The second strategy is to make a pill designed to relieve
headache and arthritis pain. Both products would be introduced at a price of $4 per package
in real terms. The broader remedy would probably sell 10 million packages a year. This is
twice the sales rate for the headache-only medication. Cash costs of production in the first
year are expected to be $1.50 per package in real terms for the headache-only brand.
Production costs are expected to be $1.70 in real terms for the more general pill. All prices
and costs are expected to rise at the general inflation rate of 5 percent.
Either strategy would require further investment in plant. The headache-only pill could
be produced using equipment that would cost $10.2 million, last three years, and have no
resale value. The machinery required to produce the broader remedy would cost $12
million and last three years. At this time the firm would be able to sell it for $1 million (in
real terms). The production machinery would need to be replaced every three years, at
constant real costs.
Suppose that for both projects the firm will use straight-line depreciation. The firm
faces a corporate tax rate of 34 percent. The firm believes the appropriate real discount
rate is 13 percent. Capital gains are taxed at the ordinary corporate tax rate of 34 percent.
Which pain reliever should the firm produce?
7.23 A machine that lasts four years has the following net cash outflows. $12,000 is the cost of
purchasing the machine, and $6,000 is the annual year-end operating cost. At the end of
four years, the machine is sold for $2,000; thus, the cash flow at year 4, C4, is only $4,000.
C0
C1
C2
C3
C4
$12,000
$6,000
$6,000
$6,000
$4,000
The cost of capital is 6 percent. What is the present value of the costs of operating a series
of such machines in perpetuity?
7.24 A machine costs $60,000 and requires $5,000 maintenance for each year of its three-year
life. After three years, this machine will be replaced. Assume a tax rate of 34 percent and a
discount rate of 14 percent. If the machine is depreciated with a three-year straight-line
without a salvage value, what is the equivalent annual cost (EAC)?
Chapter 7
Net Present Value and Capital Budgeting
195

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
202
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
7.25 United Healthcare, Inc. needs a new admitting system, which costs $60,000 and requires
$2,000 in maintenance for each year of its five-year life. The system will be depreciated
straight-line down to zero without salvage value at the end of five years. Assume a tax rate
of 35 percent and an annual discount rate of 18 percent. What is the equivalent annual cost
of this admitting system?
7.26 Aviara Golf Academy is evaluating different golf practice equipment. The “easy as pie”
equipment costs $45,000, has a three-year life, and costs $5,000 per year to operate. The
relevant discount rate is 12 percent. Assume that the straight-line depreciation down to
zero is used. Furthermore, it has a salvage value of $10,000. The relevant tax rate is 34
percent. What is the EAC of this equipment?
Replacement with Unequal Lives
7.27 Office Automation, Inc., is obliged to choose between two copiers, XX40 or RH45. XX40
costs less than RH45, but its economic life is shorter. The costs and maintenance expenses
of these two copiers are given as follows. These cash flows are expressed in real terms.
Copier
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
XX40
$700
$100
$100
$100
RH45
900
110
110
110
$110
$110
The inflation rate is 5 percent and the nominal discount rate is 14 percent. Assume that
revenues are the same regardless of the copier, and that whichever copier the company
chooses, it will buy the model forever. Which copier should the company choose? Ignore
taxes and depreciation.
7.28 Fiber Glasses must choose between two kinds of facilities. Facility I costs $2.1 million and
its economic life is seven years. The maintenance costs for facility I are $60,000 per year.
Facility II costs $2.8 million and it lasts 10 years. The annual maintenance costs for
facility II are $100,000 per year. Both facilities are fully depreciated by the straight-line
method. The facilities will have no values after their economic lives. The corporate tax rate
is 34 percent. Revenues from the facilities are the same. The company is assumed to earn a
sufficient amount of revenues to generate tax shields from depreciation. If the appropriate
discount rate is 10 percent, which facility should Fiber Glasses choose?
7.29 Pilot Plus Pens is considering when to replace its old machine. The replacement costs $3
million now and requires maintenance costs of $500,000 at the end of each year during the
economic life of five years. At the end of five years the new machine would have a salvage
value of $500,000. It will be fully depreciated by the straight-line method. The corporate
tax rate is 34 percent and the appropriate discount rate is 12 percent. Maintenance cost,
salvage value, depreciation, and book value of the existing machine are given as follows.
Book Value
Year
Maintenance
Salvage
Depreciation
(end of year)
0
$ 400,000
$2,000,000
$200,000
$1,000,000
1
1,500,000
1,200,000
200,000
800,000
2
1,500,000
800,000
200,000
600,000
3
2,000,000
600,000
200,000
400,000
4
2,000,000
400,000
200,000
200,000
The company is assumed to earn a sufficient amount of revenues to generate tax shields
from depreciation. When should the company replace the machine?
7.30 Gold Star Industries is in need of computers. They have narrowed the choices to the SAL
5000 and the DET 1000. They would need 10 SALs. Each SAL costs $3,750 and requires
$500 of maintenance each year. At the end of the computer’s eight-year life Gold Star
expects to be able to sell each one for $500. On the other hand, Gold Star could buy eight
DETs. DETs cost $5,250 each and each machine requires $700 of maintenance every year.
196
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
203
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
They last for six years and have a resale value of $600 for each one. Whichever model
Gold Star chooses, it will buy that model forever. Ignore tax effects, and assume that
maintenance costs occur at year-end. Which model should they buy if the appropriate
discount rate is 11 percent?
7.31 BYO University is faced with the decision of which word processor to purchase for its
typing pool. It can buy 10 Bang word processors which cost $8,000 each and have
estimated annual, year-end maintenance costs of $2,000 per machine. The Bang word
processors will be replaced at the end of year 4 and have no value at that time. Alternatively,
BYO could buy 11 IOU word processors to accomplish the same work. The IOU word
processors would need to be replaced after three years. They cost only $5,000 each, but
annual, year-end maintenance costs will be $2,500 per machine. A reasonable forecast is
that each IOU word processor will have a resale value of $500 at the end of three years. 
The university’s opportunity cost of funds for this type of investment is 14 percent.
Because the university is a nonprofit institution, it does not pay taxes. It is anticipated that
whichever manufacturer is chosen now will be the supplier of future machines. Would you
recommend purchasing 10 Bang word processors or 11 IOU machines?
7.32 Station WJXT is considering the replacement of its old, fully depreciated sound mixer.
Two new models are available. Mixer X has a cost of $400,000, a five-year expected life,
and after-tax cash flow savings of $120,000 per year. Mixer Y has a cost of $600,000, an
eight-year life, and after-tax cash flow savings of $130,000 per year. No new technological
developments are expected. The cost of capital is 11 percent. Should WJXT replace the old
mixer with X or Y?
7.33 Kaul Construction must choose between two pieces of equipment. Tamper A costs
$600,000 and it will last five years. This tamper will require $110,000 of maintenance
each year. Tamper B costs $750,000, but it will last seven years. Maintenance costs for
Tamper B are $90,000 per year. Kaul incurs all maintenance costs at the end of the year.
The appropriate discount rate for Kaul Construction is 12 percent.
a. Which machine should Kaul purchase?
b. What assumptions are you making in your analysis for part (a)?
7.34 Philben Pharmaceutics must decide when to replace its autoclave. Philben’s current
autoclave will require increasing amounts of maintenance each year. The resale value of
the equipment falls every year. The following table presents this data.
Year
Maintenance Costs
Resale Value
Today
$
0
$900
1
200
850
2
275
775
3
325
700
4
450
600
5
500
500
Philben can purchase a new autoclave for $3,000. The new equipment will have an
economic life of six years. At the end of each of those years, the equipment will require
$20 of maintenance. Philben expects to be able to sell the machine for $1,200 at the end of
six years. Assume that Philben will pay no taxes. The appropriate discount rate for this
decision is 10 percent. When should Philben replace its current machine?
7.35 (Challenge) A firm considers an investment of $28,000,000 (purchase price) in new
equipment to replace old equipment that has a book value of $12,000,000 (market value of
$20,000,000). If the firm replaces the old equipment with the new equipment, it expects to
save $17,500,000 in pretax cash flow (net savings) savings the first year and an additional
12 percent (more than the previous year) per year for each of the following three years
(total of four years). The old equipment has a four-year remaining life, being written off on
a straight-line depreciation basis with no expected salvage value. The new equipment will
Chapter 7
Net Present Value and Capital Budgeting
197

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
204
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
be depreciated under the MACRS system (which uses a double-declining balance
approach, the half-year convention in year 1, and the option to switch to straight-line when
it is beneficial) using a three-year life. In addition, it is assumed that replacement of the
old equipment with the new equipment would require an increase in working capital of
$5,000,000, which would not be recovered until the end of the four-year investment. If the
relevant tax rates is 40 percent, find:
a. The net investment (time 0 cash flow).
b. The after-tax cash flow for each period.
c. The internal rate of return, the net present value, and the profitability index.
CASE STUDY:
Goodweek Tires, Inc.
A
fter extensive research and development, Goodweek Tires, Inc., has recently developed a new
tire, the SuperTread, and must decide whether to make the investment necessary to produce
and market the SuperTread.The tire would be ideal for drivers doing a large amount of wet weather
and off-road driving in addition to its normal freeway usage.The research and development costs so
far total about $10 million.The SuperTread would be put on the market beginning this year and
Goodweek expects it to stay on the market for a total of four years.Test marketing costing $5 mil-
lion shows that there is a significant market for a SuperTread-type tire.
As a financial analyst at Goodweek Tires, you are asked by your CFO, Mr.Adam Smith, to eval-
uate the SuperTread project and provide a recommendation on whether to go ahead with the in-
vestment.You are informed that all previous investments in the SuperTread are sunk costs and only
future cash flows should be considered. Except for the initial investment which will occur immedi-
ately, assume all cash flows will occur at year-end.
Goodweek must initially invest $120 million in production equipment to make the SuperTread.
The equipment is expected to have a seven-year useful life.This equipment can be sold for $51,428,571
at the end of four years. Goodweek intends to sell the SuperTread to two distinct markets:
1. The Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) MarketThe OEM market consists primarily of the large
automobile companies (e.g., General Motors) who buy tires for new cars. In the OEM market, the
SuperTread is expected to sell for $36 per tire.The variable cost to produce each tire is $18.
2. The Replacement Market The replacement market consists of all tires purchased after the auto-
mobile has left the factory.This market allows higher margins and Goodweek expects to sell the
SuperTread for $59 per tire there.Variable costs are the same as in the OEM market.
Goodweek Tires intends to raise prices at 1 percent above the inflation rate.Variable costs will
also increase 1 percent above the inflation rate.In addition,the SuperTread project will incur $25 mil-
lion in marketing and general administration costs the first year (this figure is expected to increase
at the inflation rate in the subsequent years).
Goodweek’s corporate tax rate is 40 percent.Annual inflation is expected to remain constant
at 3.25 percent.The company uses a 15.9 percent discount rate to evaluate new product decisions.
The tire market
Automotive industry analysts expect automobile manufacturers to produce 2 million new cars this
year and production to grow at 2.5 percent per year thereafter. Each new car needs four tires (the
spare tires are undersized and are in a different category). Goodweek Tires expects the SuperTread
to capture 11 percent of the OEM market.
Industry analysts estimate that the replacement tire market size will be 14 million tires this year
and that it will grow at 2 percent annually. Goodweek expects the SuperTread to capture an 8 per-
cent market share.
198
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
7. Net Present Value and 
Capital Budgeting
205
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
You decide to use the MACRS depreciation schedule (seven-year property class).You also de-
cide to consider net working capital (NWC) requirements in this scenario.The immediate initial
working capital requirement is $11 million, and thereafter the net working capital requirements will
be 15 percent of sales.What will be the NPV, payback period, discounted payback period, AAR, IRR,
and PI on this project?
Appendix 7A DEPRECIATION
The Baldwin case made some assumptions about depreciation. Where did these assump-
tions come from? Assets are currently depreciated for tax purposes according to the provi-
sions of the 1986 Tax Reform Act. There are seven classes of depreciable property.
• The three-year class includes certain specialized short-lived property. Tractor units
and racehorses over two years old are among the very few items fitting into this class.
• The five-year class includes (a) cars and trucks; (b) computers and peripheral equip-
ment, as well as calculators, copiers, and typewriters; and (c) specific items used for
research purposes.
• The seven-year class includes office furniture, equipment, books, and single-purpose
agricultural structures. It is also a catch-all category, because any asset not desig-
nated to be in another class is included here.
• The 10-year class includes vessels, barges, tugs, and similar equipment related to wa-
ter transportation.
• The 15-year class encompasses a variety of specialized items. Included are equip-
ment of telephone distribution plants and similar equipment used for voice and data
communications, and sewage treatment plants.
• The 20-year class includes farm buildings, sewer pipe, and other very long-lived
equipment.
• Real property that is depreciable is separated into two classes: residential and non-
residential. The cost of residential property is recovered over 271⁄2 years and nonres-
idential property over 311⁄2 years.
Items in the three-, five-, and seven-year classes are depreciated using the 200-percent 
declining-balance method, with a switch to straight-line depreciation at a point specified in the
Tax Reform Act. Items in the 15- and 20-year classes are depreciated using the 150-percent 
declining-balance method, with a switch to straight-line depreciation at a specified point. All
real estate is depreciated on a straight-line basis.
All calculations of depreciation include a half-year convention, which treats all prop-
erty as if it were placed in service at midyear. To be consistent, the IRS allows half a year
of depreciation for the year in which property is disposed of or retired. The effect of this is
to spread the deductions for property over one year more than the name of its class, for ex-
ample, six tax years for five-year property.
Chapter 7
Net Present Value and Capital Budgeting
199

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
206
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Strategy and Analysis in
Using Net Present Value
CHAPTER 8
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
T
he previous chapter discussed how to identify the incremental cash flows involved
in capital budgeting decisions. In this chapter we look more closely at what it is
about a project that produces a positive net present value (NPV). The process of ask-
ing about the sources of positive NPV in capital budgeting is often referred to as corporate
strategy analysis. We talk about corporate strategy analysis in the first part of the chapter.
Next, we consider several analytical tools that help managers deal with the effects of un-
certainty on incremental cash flows. The concepts of decision trees, scenario analysis, and
break-even analysis are discussed.
8.1 CORPORATE STRATEGY AND POSITIVE NPV
The intuition behind discounted cash flow analysis is that a project must generate a higher
rate of return than the one that can be earned in the capital markets. Only if this is true will
a project’s NPV be positive. A significant part of corporate strategy analysis is seeking in-
vestment opportunities that can produce positive NPV.
Simple “number crunching” in a discounted cash flow analysis can sometimes erro-
neously lead to a positive NPV calculation. In calculating discounted cash flows, it is al-
ways useful to ask: What is it about this project that produces a positive NPV? or Where
does the positive NPV in capital budgeting come from? In other words, we must be able to
point to the specific sources of positive increments to present value in doing discounted
cash flow analysis. In general, it is sensible to assume that positive NPV projects are hard
to find and that most project proposals are “guilty until proven innocent.”
Here are some ways that firms create positive NPV:
1. Be the first to introduce a new product.
2. Further develop a core competency to produce goods or services at lower cost than
competitors.
3. Create a barrier that makes it difficult for other firms to compete effectively.
4. Introduce variations on existing products to take advantage of unsatisfied demand.
5. Create product differentiation by aggressive advertising and marketing networks.
6. Use innovation in organizational processes to do all of the above.
This is undoubtedly a partial list of potential sources of positive NPV. However, it is
important to keep in mind the fact that positive NPV projects are probably not common.
Our basic economic intuition should tell us that it will be harder to find positive NPV proj-
ects in a competitive industry than a noncompetitive industry.
Now we ask another question: How can someone find out whether a firm is obtaining
positive NPV from its operating and investment activities? First we talk about how share

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
207
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 8
Strategy and Analysis in Using Net Present Value
201
prices are related to long-term and short-term decision making. Next we explain how man-
agers can find clues in share price behavior on whether they are making good decisions.
Corporate Strategy and the Stock Market
There should be a connection between the stock market and capital budgeting. If a firm in-
vests in a project that is worth more than its cost, the project will produce positive NPV, and
the firm’s stock price should go up. However, the popular financial press frequently sug-
gests that the best way for a firm to increase its share price is to report high short-term earn-
ings (even if by doing so it “cooks the books”). As a consequence, it is often said that U.S.
firms tend to reduce capital expenditures and research and development in order to increase
short-term profits and stock prices.1 Moreover, it is claimed that U.S. firms that have valid
long-term goals and undertake long-term capital budgeting at the expense of short-term
profits are hurt by shortsighted stock market reactions. Sometimes institutional investors
are blamed for this state of affairs. By contrast, Japanese firms are said to have a long-term
perspective and make the necessary investments in research and development to provide a
competitive edge against U.S. firms.
Of course, these claims rest, in part, on the assumption that the U.S. stock market sys-
tematically overvalues short-term earnings and undervalues long-term earnings. The avail-
able evidence suggests the contrary. McConnell and Muscarella looked closely at the effect
of corporate investment on the market value of equity.2 They found that, for most industrial
HOW TO CREATE POSITIVE NPV
Type of Action
Examples
Introduce new product
Apple Corp. introduction of the first 
personal computer in 1976
Develop core technology
Honda’s mastery of small-motor technology
to efficiently produce automobiles,
motorcycles, and lawn mowers
Create barrier to entry
Qualcomm patents on proprietary 
technology in CDMA wireless
communication
Introduce variations on existing products
Chrysler’s introduction of the minivan
Create product differentiation
Coca-Cola’s use of advertising: “It’s the real
thing”
Utilize organizational innovation
Motorola’s use of “Japanese management 
practice,” including “just in time”
inventory procurement, consensus
decision making, and performance-based
incentive systems
Exploit new technology
Yahoo! Inc.’s use of banner advertisements 
on the web and the digital distribution of
new services
1See Judith H. Dobrznyski, “More than Ever, It’s Management for the Short Term,” Business Week (November 24,
1986), p. 92. In this article Andrew Sigler, CEO of Champion International, is quoted as saying that U.S. managers
are under great pressure to avoid long-term investments and to produce short-term earnings.
2John J. McConnell and Chris J. Muscarella, “Corporate Capital Expenditure Decisions and the Market Value of
the Firm,” Journal of Financial Economics (September 1985), pp. 399–422.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
208
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
firms, announcements of increases in planned capital spending were associated with sig-
nificant increases in the market value of the common stock and that announcements of 
decreases in capital spending had the opposite effect. The McConnell and Muscarella re-
search suggests that the stock market does pay close attention to corporate capital spending
and it reacts positively to firms making long-term investments.
In another highly regarded study, Woolridge studied the stock market reaction to the
strategic capital spending programs of several hundred U.S. firms.3 He looked at firms an-
nouncing joint ventures, research and development spending, new-product strategies, and
capital spending for expansion and modernization. He found a strong positive stock reac-
tion to these types of announcements. This finding provides significant support for the no-
tion that the stock market encourages managers to make long-term strategic investment de-
cisions in order to maximize shareholders’ value. It strongly opposes the viewpoint that
markets and managers are myopic.
CASE STUDY:
How Firms Can Learn about NPV from the Stock Market:
The AT&T Decision to Acquire NCR and to Change Its CEO
B
asic economic common sense tells us that the market value of a firm’s outstanding shares re-
flects the stock market’s assessment of future cash flows from the firm’s investing activities.
Therefore, it is not surprising that the stock market usually reacts positively to the proposed capital
budgeting programs of U.S. firms. However, this is not always the case. Sometimes the stock market
provides negative clues to a new project’s NPV.
Consider AT&T’s repeated attempts to penetrate the computer-manufacturing industry. On
December 6, 1990, AT&T made a $90 per share or $6.12 billion cash offer for all of NCR Corpo-
ration’s common stock. From December 4, 1990, to December 11, 1990, AT&T’s stock dropped
from $303⁄8 per share to $291⁄2, representing a loss of about $1 billion to the shareholders of AT&T.
Five months later, when these firms finally agreed to a deal, AT&T’s stock dropped again.
Why did AT&T buy NCR, a large computer manufacturer? Why did the stock market reaction
suggest that the acquisition was a negative NPV investment for AT&T? AT&T was apparently con-
vinced that the telecommunications and computer industries were becoming one industry. AT&T’s
basic idea was that telephone switches are big computers and success in computers means success
in telephones.The message from the stock market is that AT&T could be wrong. That is, making
computers is basically a manufacturing business and telephone communications is basically a service
business. The core competency4 of making computers (efficient manufacturing) is different from
that of providing telecommunications for business (service support and software). Of course, even
if AT&T had acquired NCR for the “right” reasons, it is possible that it paid too much. The negative
stock market reaction suggests that AT&T shareholders believed that NCR was worth less than its
cost to AT&T. On September 20, 1995, when AT&T announced its intention to spin off NCR (as well
as Lucent), its stock price increased by about 11 percent.
On the other hand,when it was announced,on November 5,1992,that AT&T was negotiating the
purchase of one-third of McCaw Cellular Communications with the option to obtain voting control,
202
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
3J. Randall Woolridge, “Competitive Decline: Is a Myopic Stock Market to Blame?” Journal of Applied Corporate
Finance (Spring 1988), pp. 26–36. Another interesting study has been conducted by Su Han Chan, John Martin,
and John Kensinger, “Corporate Research and Development Expenditures and Share Value,” Journal of Financial
Economics 26 (1990), pp. 255–76. They report that the share-price responses to announcements of increased
research and development are significantly positive, even when the firm’s earnings were decreasing.
4Gregg Jarrell, (“For a Higher Share Price, Focus Your Business,” The Wall Street Journal, September 13, 1991)
reports that an increase in “focus” by a firm is typically associated with increases in its share price. Those
companies that reduced their number of business lines from 1979 to 1988 had better stock market performance
than other firms.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
209
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
AT&T’s stock price jumped from $426⁄8 to $443⁄8,representing a gain in market value close to $2 billion.
Two years later,the Federal Communications Commission approved the acquisition of all of McCaw by
AT&T,and AT&T’s stock price was holding at over $55 per share. The positive stock market reaction
suggests that the shareholders of AT&T believe that AT&T’s acquisition of McCaw is a positive NPV
decision. AT&T could use McCaw’s cellular telephone network to bypass local telephone companies
for completing long distance telephone calls,eliminating the access fees normally paid to them.Perhaps
because of AT&T’s spotty acquisition record, its stock price rose 13.5 percent when on October 17,
1997, it was learned that Robert Allen would step down and Michael Armstrong would become the
new CEO.On June 24,1998,when it was disclosed that AT&T appeared close to a deal to acquire TCI
for $30 billion, AT&T’s stock jumped 4 percent.The market believed that by buying TCI,which owned
a large portfolio of cable lines, AT&T might be able to bypass the local phone monopolies of the “baby
bells.” TCI would offer AT&T a detour around the “last mile” and ultimately be part of AT&T’s broad-
band strategy. AT&T’s market share of long-distance business continues to fall and there have been re-
ports of pressure by the credit rating agencies for it to reduce its $62 billion of debt and $3 billion of
interest costs.
AT&T’s stock price fell by more than 60 percent during the year 2000, a year that included
AT&T’s announced breakup into three companies: wireless, broadband, and business services.The
stock market appeared to be very skeptical of AT&T’s ability to carry out its long term strategy.
At the end of the year, it was reported that AT&T was expected to reduce its dividend by
about 60 percent from its current level. This would be the first time in the company’s more than
100-year history that it had cut its dividend.Upon the report of a dividend cut, AT&T’s stock price
increased.
Overall, the evidence suggests that firms can use the stock market to help potentially short-
sighted managers make positive net present value decisions. Unfortunately only a few firms use the
market as effectively as they could to help them make capital budgeting decisions.
• What are the ways a firm can create positive NPV projects?
• How can managers use the market to help them screen out negative NPV projects?
8.2 DECISION TREES
We have considered potential sources of value in NPV analysis. Moreover, we pointed out
that there is a connection between the stock market and a firm’s capital budgeting decisions.
A savvy CEO can learn from the stock market. Now our interest is in coming up with esti-
mates of NPV for a proposed project. A fundamental problem in NPV analysis is dealing
with uncertain future outcomes. Furthermore, there is usually a sequence of decisions in
NPV project analysis. This section introduces the device of decision trees for identifying
the sequential decisions in NPV analysis.
Imagine you are the treasurer of the Solar Electronics Corporation (SEC), and the engi-
neering group has recently developed the technology for solar-powered jet engines. The jet en-
gine is to be used with 150-passenger commercial airplanes. The marketing staff has proposed
that SEC develop some prototypes and conduct test marketing of the engine. A corporate plan-
ning group, including representatives from production, marketing, and engineering, has rec-
ommended that the firm go ahead with the test and development phase. They estimate that this
preliminary phase will take a year and will cost $100 million. Furthermore, the group believes
there is a 75-percent chance that the reproduction and marketing tests will prove successful.
Based on its experience in the industry, the company has a fairly accurate idea of how
much the development and testing expenditures will cost. Sales of jet engines, however, are
subject to (1) uncertainty about the demand for air travel in the future, (2) uncertainty about
Chapter 8
Strategy and Analysis in Using Net Present Value
203
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
210
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
future oil prices, (3) uncertainty about SEC’s market share for engines for 150-passenger
planes, and (4) uncertainty about the demand for 150-passenger planes relative to other
sizes. Future oil prices will have a substantial impact on when airlines replace their exist-
ing fleets of Boeing 727 jets, because the 727s are much less fuel efficient compared with
the new jets that will be produced over the next five years.
If the initial marketing tests are successful, SEC can acquire some land, build several
new plants, and go ahead with full-scale production. This investment phase will cost $1,500
million. Production will occur over the next five years. The preliminary cash flow projec-
tion appears in Table 8.1. Should SEC decide to go ahead with investment and production
on the jet engine, the NPV at a discount rate of 15 percent (in millions) is
NPV   $1,500 
 $1,500  $900 
 $1,517
Note that the NPV is calculated as of date 1, the date at which the investment of $1,500 mil-
lion is made. Later we bring this number back to date 0.
If the initial marketing tests are unsuccessful, SEC’s $1,500 million investment has an
NPV of $3,611 million. (You will see how to calculate this number in the section.) This
figure is also calculated as of date 1.
Figure 8.1 displays the problem concerning the jet engine as a decision tree. If SEC de-
cides to conduct test marketing, there is a 75-percent probability that the test marketing will
be successful. If the tests are successful, the firm faces a second decision: whether to invest
$1,500 million in a project that yields $1,517 million NPV or to stop. If the tests are un-
successful, the firm faces a different decision: whether to invest $1,500 million in a project
that yields $3,611 million NPV or to stop.
A 5
0.15

 
5
t1
$900
1.15 t
204
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
I TABLE 8.1 Cash Flow Forecasts for Solar Electronics Corporation’s
Jet Engine Base Case (millions)*
Investment
Year 1
Year 2
Revenues
$6,000
Variable costs
(3,000)
Fixed costs
(1,791)
Depreciation
(300)
_____
Pretax profit
909
Tax (Tc 0.34)
(309)
_____
_____
Net profit
$ 600
Cash flow
$ 900
Initial investment costs
$1,500
*Assumptions: (1) Investment is depreciated in years 2 through 6 using the straight-line method; (2) tax rate is
34 percent; (3) the company receives no tax benefits on initial development costs.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
211
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
As can be seen from Figure 8.1, SEC has the following two decisions to make:
1. Whether to test and develop the solar-powered jet engine.
2. Whether to invest for full-scale production following the results of the test.
One makes decisions in reverse order with decision trees. Thus, we analyze the second-
stage investment of $1,500 million first. If the tests are successful, it is obvious that SEC
should invest, because $1,517 million is greater than zero. Just as obviously, if the tests are
unsuccessful, SEC should not invest.
Now we move back to the first stage, where the decision boils down to a simple ques-
tion: Should SEC invest $100 million now to obtain a 75-percent chance of $1,517 million
one year later? The expected payoff evaluated at date 1 (in millions) is

(0.75

$1,517)

(0.25

$0)
 $1,138
The NPV of testing computed at date 0 (in millions) is
NPV  $100 
 $890
Thus, the firm should test the market for solar-powered jet engines.
Warning 1
We have used a discount rate of 15 percent for both the testing and the in-
vestment decisions. Perhaps a higher discount rate should have been used for the initial test-
marketing decision, which is likely to be riskier than the investment decision.
Warning 2
It was assumed that after making the initial investment to produce solar en-
gines and then being confronted with a low demand, SEC could lose money. This worst-
case scenario leads to an NPV of $3,611 million. This is an unlikely eventuality. Instead,
$1,138
1.15
Expected
payoff

Probability
of
success

Payoff
if
successful 
Probability
of
failure

Payoff
if
failure
Chapter 8
Strategy and Analysis in Using Net Present Value
205
Now
1 year
2 years
Test and
development
–$100
Initial
investment
–$1,500
Production
NPV = $1,517
NPV = $3,611
NPV = 0
Invest
Invest
Do not invest
Do not invest
Success
Failure
Test
Do not test
I FIGURE 8.1 Decision Tree ($ millions) for SEC
Open circles represent decision points; closed circles represent receipt of information.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
212
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
it is more plausible to assume that SEC would try to sell its initial investment—patents,
land, buildings, machinery, and prototypes—for $1,000 million. For example, faced with
low demand, suppose SEC could scrap the initial investment. In this case, it would lose
$500 million of the original investment. This is much better than if it produced the solar-
powered jet engines and generated a negative NPV of $3,611 million. It is hard for decision
trees to capture all of the managerial options in changing environments.
• What is a decision tree?
• What are two potential problems in using decision trees?
8.3 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS, SCENARIO ANALYSIS, 
AND BREAK-EVEN ANALYSIS
One thrust of this book is that NPV analysis is a superior capital budgeting technique. In
fact, because the NPV approach uses cash flows rather than profits, uses all the cash flows,
and discounts the cash flows properly, it is hard to find any theoretical fault with it. How-
ever, in our conversations with practical businesspeople, we hear the phrase “a false sense
of security” frequently. These people point out that the documentation for capital budget-
ing proposals is often quite impressive. Cash flows are projected down to the last thousand
dollars (or even the last dollar) for each year (or even each month). Opportunity costs and
side effects are handled quite properly. Sunk costs are ignored—also quite properly. When
a high net present value appears at the bottom, one’s temptation is to say yes immediately.
Nevertheless, the projected cash flow often goes unmet in practice, and the firm ends up
with a money loser.
Sensitivity Analysis and Scenario Analysis
How can the firm get the net-present-value technique to live up to its potential? One ap-
proach is sensitivity analysis (a.k.a. what-if analysis and bop analysis5). This approach
examines how sensitive a particular NPV calculation is to changes in underlying assump-
tions. We illustrate the technique with Solar Electronics’solar-powered jet engine from the
previous section. As pointed out earlier, the cash flow forecasts for this project appear in
Table 8.1. We begin by considering the assumptions underlying revenues, costs, and after-
tax cash flows shown in the table.
Revenues
Sales projections for the proposed jet engine have been estimated by the mar-
keting department as
3,000

0.30

10,000
$6,000 million 
3,000

$2 million
Sales revenues   Number of jet
engines sold       Price per
engine
Number of jet
engines sold    Market Share    
Size of jet
engine market 
206
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
5Bop stands for best, optimistic, pessimistic.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
213
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Thus, it turns out that the revenue estimates depend on three assumptions.
1. Market share.
2. Size of jet engine market.
3. Price per engine.
Costs
Financial analysts frequently divide costs into two types: variable costs and fixed
costs. Variable costs change as the output changes, and they are zero when production is zero.
Costs of direct labor and raw materials are usually variable. It is common to assume that vari-
able costs are proportional to production. A typical variable cost is one that is constant per unit
of output. For example, if direct labor is variable and one unit of final output requires $10 of
direct labor, then 100 units of final output should require $1,000 of direct labor.
Fixed costs are not dependent on the amount of goods or services produced during the
period. Fixed costs are usually measured as costs per unit of time, such as rent per month
or salaries per year. Naturally, fixed costs are not fixed forever. They are only fixed over a
predetermined time period.
Variable costs per unit produced have been estimated by the engineering department at
$1 million. Fixed costs are $1,791 million per year. The cost breakdowns are
$3,000 million

$1 million

3,000
Total cost before taxes 
Variable cost 
Fixed cost
$4,791 million
 $3,000 million 
$1,791 million
The above estimates for market size, market share, price, variable cost, and fixed cost,
as well as the estimate of initial investment, are presented in the middle column of Table 8.2.
These figures represent the firm’s expectations or best estimates of the different parameters.
For purposes of comparison, the firm’s analysts prepared both optimistic and pessimistic
forecasts for the different variables. These are also provided in the table.
Standard sensitivity analysis calls for an NPV calculation for all three possibilities of a
single variable, along with the expected forecast for all other variables. This procedure is il-
lustrated in Table 8.3. For example, consider the NPV calculation of $8,154 million provided
in the upper right-hand corner of this table. This occurs when the optimistic forecast of
20,000 units per year is used for market size. However, the expected forecasts from Table 8.2
are employed for all other variables when the $8,154 million figure is generated. Note that
Variable
cost
            Variable cost
per unit
       Number of jet
engines sold
Chapter 8
Strategy and Analysis in Using Net Present Value
207
I TABLE 8.2 Different Estimates for Solar Electronics’ Solar Plane
Expected
Variable
Pessimistic
or Best
Optimistic
Market size (per year)
5,000
10,000
20,000
Market share
20%
30%
50%
Price
$1.9 million
$2 million
$2.2 million
Variable cost (per plane)
$1.2 million
$1 million
$0.8 million
Fixed cost (per year)
$1,891 million
$1,791 million
$1,741 million
Investment
$1,900 million
$1,500 million
$1,000 million

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
214
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
the same number of $1,517 million appears in each row of the middle column of Table 8.3.
This occurs because the expected forecast is used for the variable that was singled out, as
well as for all other variables.
A table such as Table 8.3 can be used for a number of purposes. First, taken as a whole,
the table can indicate whether NPV analysis should be trusted. In other words, it reduces
the false sense of security we spoke of earlier. Suppose that NPV is positive when the ex-
pected forecast for each variable is used. However, further suppose that every number in the
pessimistic column is wildly negative and every number in the optimistic column is wildly
positive. Even a single error in this forecast greatly alters the estimate, making one leery of
the net present value approach. A conservative manager might well scrap the entire NPV
analysis in this case. Fortunately, this does not seem to be the case in Table 8.3, because all
but two of the numbers are positive. Managers viewing the table will likely consider NPV
analysis to be useful for the solar-powered jet engine.
Second, sensitivity analysis shows where more information is needed. For example, er-
ror in the investment appears to be relatively unimportant because even under the pes-
simistic scenario, the NPV of $1,208 million is still highly positive. By contrast, the pes-
simistic forecast for market share leads to a negative NPV of $696 million, and a
pessimistic forecast for market size leads to a substantially negative NPV of $1,802 mil-
lion. Because the effect of incorrect estimates on revenues is so much greater than the ef-
fect of incorrect estimates on costs, more information on the factors determining revenues
might be needed.
Unfortunately, sensitivity analysis suffers from some drawbacks. For example, sensi-
tivity analysis may unwittingly increase the false sense of security among managers.
Suppose all pessimistic forecasts yield positive NPVs. A manager might feel that there is
no way the project can lose money. Of course, the forecasters may simply have an opti-
mistic view of a pessimistic forecast. To combat this, some companies do not treat opti-
mistic and pessimistic forecasts subjectively. Rather, their pessimistic forecasts are al-
208
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
I TABLE 8.3 NPV Calculations as of Date 1 (in $ millions) for the Solar
Plane Using Sensitivity Analysis
Expected
Pessimistic
or Best
Optimistic
Market size
$1,802*
$1,517
$8,154
Market share
696*
1,517
5,942
Price
853
1,517
2,844
Variable cost
189
1,517
2,844
Fixed cost
1,295
1,517
1,628
Investment
1,208
1,517
1,903
Under sensitivity analysis, one input is varied while all other inputs are assumed to meet
their expectation. For example, an NPV of $1,802 occurs when the pessimistic forecast of
5,000 is used for market size. However, the expected forecasts from Table 8.2 are used for all
other variables when $1,802 is generated.
*We assume that the other divisions of the firm are profitable, implying that a loss on this project can offset
income elsewhere in the firm. The firm reports a loss to the IRS in these two cases. Thus, the loss on the project
generates a tax rebate to the firm.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
215
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
ways, say, 20 percent less than expected. Unfortunately, the cure in this case may be worse
than the disease, because a deviation of a fixed percentage ignores the fact that some vari-
ables are easier to forecast than others.
In addition, sensitivity analysis treats each variable in isolation when, in reality, the dif-
ferent variables are likely to be related. For example, if ineffective management allows costs
to get out of control, it is likely that variable costs, fixed costs, and investment will all rise
above expectation at the same time. If the market is not receptive to a solar plane, both mar-
ket share and price should decline together.
Managers frequently perform scenario analysis, a variant of sensitivity analysis, to
minimize this problem. Simply put, this approach examines a number of different likely
scenarios, where each scenario involves a confluence of factors. As a simple example, con-
sider the effect of a few airline crashes. These crashes are likely to reduce flying in total,
thereby limiting the demand for any new engines. Furthermore, even if the crashes did not
involve solar-powered aircraft, the public could become more averse to any innovative and
controversial technologies. Hence, SEC’s market share might fall as well. Perhaps the cash
flow calculations would look like those in Table 8.4 under the scenario of a plane crash.
Given the calculations in the table, the NPV (in millions) would be
$2,023  $1,500  $156 
A series of scenarios like this might illuminate issues concerning the project better than a
standard application of sensitivity analysis would.
Break-Even Analysis
Our discussion of sensitivity analysis and scenario analysis suggests that there are many ways
to examine variability in forecasts. We now present another approach, break-even analysis. As
its name implies, this approach determines the sales needed to break even. The approach is a
useful complement to sensitivity analysis, because it also sheds light on the severity of incorrect
forecasts. We calculate the break-even point in terms of both accounting profit and present value.
A 5
0.15
Chapter 8
Strategy and Analysis in Using Net Present Value
209
I TABLE 8.4 Cash Flow Forecast (in $ millions) under the Scenario of a
Plane Crash*
Year 1
Years 2–6
Revenues
$2,800
Variable costs
1,400
Fixed costs
1,791
Depreciation
300
Pretax profit
691
Tax (Tc  0.34)†
235
Net profit
456
Cash flow
156
Initial investment cost
$1,500
*Assumptions are
Market size
7,000 (70 percent of expectation)
Market share
20% (2/3 of expectation)
Forecasts for all other variables are the expected forecasts as given in Table 8.2.
†Tax loss offsets income elsewhere in firm.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
216
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Accounting Profit
Net profit under four different sales forecasts is
Unit Sales
Net Profit (in $ millions)
0
$1,380
1,000
720
3,000
600
10,000
5,220
A more complete presentation of costs and revenues appears in Table 8.5.
We plot the revenues, costs, and profits under the different assumptions about sales in
Figure 8.2. The revenue and cost curves cross at 2,091 jet engines. This is the break-even
point, in other words, the point where the project generates no profits or losses. As long as
sales are above 2,091 jet engines, the project will make a profit.
This break-even point can be calculated very easily. Because the sales price is $2 mil-
lion per engine and the variable cost is $1 million per engine,6 the after-tax difference per
engine is
(Sales price  Variable cost)  (1  Tc)  ($2 million  $1 million)
 (1  0.34)  $0.66 million
where Tc is the corporate tax rate of 34 percent. This after-tax difference is called the con-
tribution margin because it is the amount that each additional engine contributes to after-
tax profit.
Fixed costs are $1,791 million and depreciation is $300 million, implying that the 
after-tax sum of these costs is
(Fixed costs  Depreciation)  (1  Tc)  ($1,791 million  $300 million)
 (1  0.34)  $1,380 million
210
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
I TABLE 8.5 Revenues and Costs of Project under Different Sales Assumptions 
(in $ millions, except unit sales)
Year
Years
1
2–6
Annual
Operating
NPV
Initial
Unit
Variable
Fixed
Depreci-
Taxes*
Net
Cash
(evaluated
Investment
Sales
Revenues
Costs
Costs
ation
(Tc  0.34)
Profits
Flows
date 1)
$1,500
0
$
0
$
0
$1,791
$300
$ 711
$1,380 $1,080
$ 5,120
1,500
1,000
2,000
1,000
1,791
300
371
720
420
2,908
1,500
3,000
6,000
3,000
1,791
300
309
600
900
1,517
1,500
10,000
20,000
10,000
1,791
300
2,689
5,220
5,520
17,004
*Loss is incurred in the first two rows. For tax purposes, this loss offsets income elsewhere in the firm.
6Though the previous section considered both optimistic and pessimistic forecasts for sales price and variable
cost, break-even analysis only works with the expected or best estimates of these variables.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
217
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
That is, the firm incurs costs of $1,380 million, regardless of the number of sales. Because
each engine contributes $0.66 million, sales must reach the following level to offset the
above costs:
Accounting Profit Break-Even Point:
Thus, 2,091 engines is the break-even point required for an accounting profit.
Present Value
As we stated many times in the text, we are more interested in present
value than we are in net profits. Therefore, we must calculate the present value of the cash
flows. Given a discount rate of 15 percent, we have
Unit Sales
NPV ($ millions)
0
5,120
1,000
2,908
3,000
1,517
10,000
17,004
These NPV calculations are reproduced in the last column of Table 8.5. We can see that the
NPV is negative if SEC produces 1,000 jet engines and positive if it produces 3,000 jet en-
gines. Obviously, the zero NPV point occurs between 1,000 and 3,000 jet engines.
The present value break-even point can be calculated very easily. The firm originally
invested $1,500 million. This initial investment can be expressed as a five-year equivalent
annual cost (EAC), determined by dividing the initial investment by the appropriate five-
year annuity factor:
Note that the EAC of $447.5 million is greater than the yearly depreciation of $300 million.
This must occur since the calculation of EAC implicitly assumes that the $1,500 million in-
vestment could have been invested at 15 percent.
 $1,500 million
3.3522
 $447.5 million
 Initial investment
A 5
0.15
EAC 
Initial investment
5-year annuity factor at 15%
Fixed costs  Depreciation  1  Tc
Sales price  Variable costs  1  Tc  $1,380 million
$0.66 million  2,091
Chapter 8
Strategy and Analysis in Using Net Present Value
211
$ millions
$4,182
Output (in terms of sales units)
2,091
Total revenues
Variable costs
Total costs
$2,091 (including depreciation)
Fixed costs
I FIGURE 8.2 Break-Even Point Using Accounting Numbers

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
218
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
After-tax costs, regardless of output, can be viewed as
Fixed
Depreci-

EAC
 costs
 (1  Tc) 
ation
 Tc
That is, in addition to the initial investment’s equivalent annual cost of $447.5 million, the
firm pays fixed costs each year and receives a depreciation tax shield each year. The de-
preciation tax shield is written as a negative number because it offsets the costs in the equa-
tion. Because each plane contributes $0.66 million to after-tax profit, it will take the fol-
lowing sales to offset the above costs:
Present Value Break-Even Point:
Thus, 2,315 planes is the break-even point from the perspective of present value. 
Why is the accounting break-even point different from the financial break-even point?
When we use accounting profit as the basis for the break-even calculation, we subtract de-
preciation. Depreciation for the solar-jet-engines project is $300 million. If 2,091 solar jet
engines are sold, SEC will generate sufficient revenues to cover the $300 million deprecia-
tion expense plus other costs. Unfortunately, at this level of sales SEC will not cover the eco-
nomic opportunity costs of the $1,500 million laid out for the investment. If we take into ac-
count that the $1,500 million could have been invested at 15 percent, the true annual cost of
the investment is $447.5 million and not $300 million. Depreciation understates the true
costs of recovering the initial investment. Thus, companies that break even on an accounting
basis are really losing money. They are losing the opportunity cost of the initial investment.
• What is a sensitivity analysis?
• Why is it important to perform a sensitivity analysis?
• What is a break-even analysis?
• Describe how sensitivity analysis interacts with break-even analysis.
8.4 OPTIONS
The analysis we have presented so far is static. In fact, standard NPV analysis is somewhat
static. Because corporations make decisions in a dynamic environment, they have options
that should be considered in project valuation.
The Option to Expand
One of the most important options is the option to expand when economic prospects are good.
The option to expand has value. Expansion pays off if demand is high. Recall the Solar Elec-
tronics Corporation (SEC) in Section 8.2. SEC’s expenditure on the test-marketing program
buys an option to produce new jet engines. This turned out to be a very valuable option. SEC
had the option to produce new jet engines depending on the results of the test marketing.
There are many real-world examples. In 1977 Saab was the first car maker to introduce
turbo-charged automobile engines in its gasoline model. Sales of the Saab 900 almost dou-
bled after the introduction. In response to this high demand, Saab has increased its capac-
EAC  Fixed costs  1  Tc  Depreciation  Tc
Sales price  Variable costs  1  Tc
 $1,528 million
$0.66 million  2,315
$1,528
million  $447.5
million  $1,791
million    0.66    $300
million  0.34
212
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
219
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
ity and entered into joint ventures with other car makers to increase production. Now many
automobile manufacturers use turbo chargers.
The Option to Abandon
The option to close a facility also has value. The SEC would not have been obligated to pro-
duce jet engines if the test-marketing results had been negative. Instead, SEC had the op-
tion to abandon the jet engine project if the results had been bad.
Take the case of General Motors (GM). On December 19, 1991, GM announced plans to
close 21 factories and cut 74,000 jobs by the end of 1995. It said that it also intended to sell
non-auto assets. Faced with low demand for its automobiles, GM decided to scrap the invest-
ment it had made in automobile manufacturing capacity, and it will likely lose much of its
original investment in the 21 factories. However, this outcome is much better than would have
occurred if GM continued to operate these factories in a declining auto market. On the day the
factory closing was announced, GM’s stock was marginally down by $0.125 (from $27.875
to $27.75). The stock market reaction was a signal that GM had waited too long to close its
factories and that the declining demand GM was encountering was greater than expected.
However, the market was relieved that GM had finally abandoned money-losing factories.
There is a special graveyard for abandoned products in the market for handheld com-
puters. In October 1991, Momenta International Corporation introduced one of the very first
handheld computers, a five-pound pen-based computer. Ten months later the company went
bankrupt. Eo, a company backed by AT&T, demonstrated a new personal communicator in
November 1992. The project was terminated in 1994. In January 1994, Motorola began ship-
ping its Envoy, a wireless communicator. The computer was discontinued two years later.
The point of our examples of failed handheld computer products is that a firm will frequently
exercise its option of abandoning a project rather than keeping a money-losing product on
the market in hopes that economic conditions will improve.
Discounted Cash Flows and Options
Conventional NPV analysis discounts a project’s cash flows estimated for a certain project
life. The decision is whether to accept the project or reject it. In practice, managers can ex-
pand or contract the scope of a project at various moments over its life. In theory, all such
managerial options should be included in the project’s value.
The market value of the project (M) will be the sum of the NPV of the project without
options to expand or contract and the value of the managerial options (Opt):
M  NPV  Opt
EXAMPLE
Imagine two ways of producing Frisbees. Method A uses a conventional machine
that has an active secondary market. Method B uses highly specialized machine
tools for which there is no secondary market. Method B has no salvage value, but
is more efficient. Method A has a salvage value, but is inefficient.
If production of Frisbees goes on until the machines used in methods A and B
are used up, the NPV of B will be greater than that of A. However, if there is some
possibility that production of Frisbees will be stopped before the end of the useful
life of the Frisbee-making machines, method A may well be better. Method A’s
higher value in the secondary market increases its NPV relative to B’s. There is a
valuable embedded option to abandoning Method A.
Chapter 8
Strategy and Analysis in Using Net Present Value
213

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
220
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
An Example
Suppose we are analyzing a new product that will sell an expected 10 units a year in per-
petuity at $10 net cash flow. In other words, we expect that cash flows will be $100 per year.
At the end of the first year we will learn more about the economic viability of the new prod-
uct. Specifically, we will know if the project will be a success or a failure. If the product is
a success, unit sales will be revised to 20 and if the product is a failure, unit sales will be 0.
Success and failure are equally likely. The discount rate is 10 percent and the initial invest-
ment outlay is $1,050. The dismantled equipment originally purchased for the project can
be sold for scrap in one year for $500.
A standard discount cash flow analysis of the new product is very straightforward. The
expected cash flows are $100 per year and the discount rate is 10 percent. The NPV of the
product is:
$100/.10  $1,050  $50
So we shouldn’t launch the new product. Correct? No! In one year we can sell out for $500
and we can learn more about the success or failure of our new product. If it is a success, we
can continue to sell the product. But if it is a failure, we can abandon the product. The op-
tion to abandon in one year is valuable.
In one year if the cash flows are revised to $0, the PV of the project will be $0 and
we will abandon the product for $500. The NPV will be $500. On the other hand, if we
learn that we can sell 20 of the products, the PV of future cash flows will be $200/.10
 $2,000. The PV exceeds the abandonment value of $500. So we will continue to sell
the product.
To sum up, we now have a new product that costs $1,050 today. In one year we ex-
pect a cash flow of $100. After one year the new product will be worth either $500 (if
we abandon the product) or $2,000 (if we continue to sell the product). These outcomes
are equally likely so we expect the project to be worth $500  $2,000/2  $1,250. The
bottom line is that in one year we expect to have $100 in cash plus a project worth
$1,250. At a 10-percent discount the project is worth $1,227.27 so the NPV is
$1,227.27  $1,050  $177.27.
We should launch the new product! Notice the NPV of our new product has increased
from $50 to $177.27 or, by $227.27. How did this happen? The original analysis implic-
itly assumed we would launch the new product even though it was a failure. Actually, when
we took a closer look, we saw that we were $500 better off if we abandoned the product.
There was a 50-percent probability of this happening. So the expected cash flow from aban-
donment is $250. The PV of this amount is $250/1.1  $227.27. The value of the option to
abandon after one year is $227.27.
Robichek and Van Horne and Dye and Long were among the first to recognize the
abandonment value in project analysis.7 More recently, Myers and Majd constructed a
model of abandonment based on an American put option with varying dividend yields and
an uncertain exercise price.8 They present a numerical procedure for calculating abandon-
ment value in problems similar to that of the Frisbee-making machine.
214
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting
7A. Robichek and J. Van Horne, “Abandonment Value and Capital Budgeting,” Journal of Finance
(December 1967); and E. Dye and H. Long, “Abandonment Value and Capital Budgeting: Comment,”
Journal of Finance (March 1969).
8S. C. Myers and S. Majd, “Calculating Abandonment Value Using Option Pricing Theory.” Unpublished
manuscript (June 1985).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
221
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Brennan and Schwartz use a gold mine to illustrate the value of managerial operations.9
They show that the value of a gold mine will depend on management’s ability to shut it
down if the price of gold falls below a certain point, and the ability to reopen it subsequently
if conditions are right. They show that valuation approaches that ignore these managerial
options are likely to substantially underestimate the value of the project.
There are both qualitative and quantitative approaches to adjusting for option value in
capital budgeting decisions. Most firms use qualitative approaches, such as subjective judg-
ment. However, quantitative approaches are gaining acceptance. We talk about the quanti-
tative approaches in Chapters 21 and 22.
8.5 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
This chapter discusses a number of practical applications of capital budgeting.
1. In Chapter 7, we observed how the net present value rule in capital budgeting is used. In 
Chapter 8, we ask about the sources of positive net present value and we explain what 
managers can do to create positive net present value.
2. Though NPV is the best capital budgeting approach conceptually, it has been criticized in
practice for providing managers with a false sense of security. Sensitivity analysis shows NPV
under varying assumptions, giving managers a better feel for the project’s risks. Unfortunately,
sensitivity analysis modifies only one variable at a time, while many variables are likely to vary
together in the real world. Scenario analysis considers the joint movement of the different
factors under different scenarios (e.g., war breaking out or oil prices skyrocketing). Finally,
managers want to know how bad forecasts must be before a project loses money. Break-even
analysis calculates the sales figure at which the project breaks even. Though break-even analysis
is frequently performed on an accounting profit basis, we suggest that a net present value basis is
more appropriate.
3. We talk about hidden options in doing discounted cash flow analysis of capital budgeting. We
discuss the option to expand and the option to abandon.
KEY TERMS
Break-even analysis
209
Scenario analysis
209
Contribution margin
210
Sensitivity analysis
206
Decision trees
203
Variable costs
207
Fixed costs
207
Chapter 8
Strategy and Analysis in Using Net Present Value
215
9M. J. Brennan and E. S. Schwartz, “A New Approach to Evaluating Natural Resource Investments,” Midland
Corporate Finance Journal 3 (Spring 1985).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
222
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
SUGGESTED READING
The classic article on break-even analysis is:
Reinhart, U. E. “Breakeven Analysis for Lockheed’s Tristar: An Application of Financial
Theory.” Journal of Finance (September 1977).
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Decision Trees
8.1 Sony Electronics, Inc., has developed a new type of VCR. If the firm directly goes to the
market with the product, there is only a 50 percent chance of success. On the other hand, if
the firm conducts test marketing of the VCR, it will take a year and will cost $2 million.
Through the test marketing, however, the firm is able to improve the product and increase the
probability of success to 75 percent. If the new product proves successful, the present value
(at the time when the firm starts selling it) of the payoff is $20 million, while if it turns out to
be a failure, the present value of the payoff is $5 million. Should the firm conduct test
marketing or go directly to the market? The appropriate discount rate is 15 percent.
8.2 The marketing manager for a growing consumer products firm is considering launching a
new product. To determine consumers’ interest in such a product, the manager can conduct
a focus group that will cost $120,000 and has a 70 percent chance of correctly predicting
the success of the product, or hire a consulting firm that will research the market at a cost of
$400,000. The consulting firm boasts a correct assessment record of 90 percent. Of course
going directly to the market with no prior testing will be the correct move 50 percent of the
time. If the firm launches the product, and it is a success, the payoff will be $1.2 million.
Which action will result in the highest expected payoff for the firm?
8.3 Tandem Bicycles is noticing a decline in sales due to the increase of lower-priced import
products from the Far East. The CFO is considering a number of strategies to maintain its
market share. The options she sees are the following:
• Price the products more aggressively, resulting in a $1.3 million decline in cash flows.
The likelihood that Tandem will lose no cash flows to the imports is 55 percent; there is a
45 percent probability that they will lose only $550,000 in cash flows to the imports.
• Hire a lobbyist to convince the regulators that there should be important tariffs placed
upon overseas manufacturers of bicycles. This will cost Tandem $800,000 and will have a
75 percent success rate, that is, no loss in cash flows to the importers. If the lobbyists do
not succeed, Tandem Bicycles will lose $2 million in cash flows.
As the assistant to the CFO, which strategy would you recommend to your boss?
Accounting Break-Even Analysis
8.4 Samuelson Inc. has invested in a facility to produce calculators. The price of the machine is
$600,000 and its economic life is five years. The machine is fully depreciated by the
straight-line method and will produce 20,000 units of calculators in the first year. The
variable production cost per unit of the calculator is $15, while fixed costs are $900,000.
The corporate tax rate for the company is 30 percent. What should the sales price per unit of
the calculator be for the firm to have a zero profit?
8.5 What is the minimum number of units that a distributor of big-screen TVs must sell in a
given period to break even?
Sales price  $1,500
Variable costs  $1,100
Fixed costs  $120,000
Depreciation  $20,000
Tax rate  35%
216
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
223
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
8.6 You are considering investing in a fledgling company that cultivates abalone for sale to
local restaurants. The proprietor says he’ll return all profits to you after covering operating
costs and his salary. How many abalone must be harvested and sold in the first year of
operations for you to get any payback? (Assume no depreciation.)
Price per adult abalone  $2.00
Variable costs  $0.72
Fixed costs  $300,000
Salaries  $40,000
Tax rate  35%
How much profit will be returned to you if he sells 300,000 abalone?
Present Value Break-Even Analysis
8.7 Using the information in the problem above, what is the present value break-even point if
the discount rate is 15 percent, initial investment is $140,000, and the life of the project is
seven years? Assume a straight-line depreciation method with a zero salvage value.
8.8 Kids & Toys Inc. has purchased a $200,000 machine to produce toy cars. The machine will
be fully depreciated by the straight-line method for its economic life of five years and will be
worthless after its life. The firm expects that the sales price of the toy is $25 while its variable
cost is $5. The firm should also pay $350,000 as fixed costs each year. The corporate tax rate
for the company is 25 percent, and the appropriate discount rate is 12 percent. What is the
present value break-even point?
8.9 The Cornchopper Company is considering the purchase of a new harvester. The
company is currently involved in deliberations with the manufacturer and the parties
have not come to settlement regarding the final purchase price. The management of
Cornchopper has hired you to determine the break-even purchase price of the harvester.
This price is that which will make the NPV of the project zero. Base your analysis on
the following facts:
• The new harvester is not expected to affect revenues, but operating expenses will be
reduced by $10,000 per year for 10 years.
• The old harvester is now 5 years old, with 10 years of its scheduled life remaining. It was
purchased for $45,000. It has been depreciated on a straight-line basis.
• The old harvester has a current market value of $20,000.
• The new harvester will be depreciated on a straight-line basis over its 10-year life.
• The corporate tax rate is 34 percent.
• The firm’s required rate of return is 15 percent.
• All cash flows occur at year-end. However, the initial investment, the proceeds from
selling the old harvester, and any tax effects will occur immediately. Capital gains and
losses are taxed at the corporate rate of 34 percent when they are realized.
• The expected market value of both harvesters at the end of their economic lives is zero.
Scenario Analysis
8.10 Ms. Thompson, as the CFO of a clock maker, is considering an investment of a $420,000
machine that has a seven-year life and no salvage value. The machine is depreciated by a
straight-line method with a zero salvage over the seven years. The appropriate discount
rate for cash flows of the project is 13 percent, and the corporate tax rate of the company is
35 percent. Calculate the NPV of the project in the following scenario. What is your
conclusion about the project?
Pessimistic
Expected
Optimistic
Unit sales
23,000
25,000
27,000
Price
$
38
$
40
$
42
Variable costs
$
21
$
20
$
19
Fixed costs
$320,000
$300,000
$280,000
Chapter 8
Strategy and Analysis in Using Net Present Value
217

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
II. Value and Capital 
Budgeting
8. Strategy and Analysis in 
Using Net Present Value
224
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
8.11 You are the financial analyst for a manufacturer of tennis rackets that has identified a
graphite-like material that it is considering using in its rackets. Given the following
information about the results of launching a new racket, will you undertake the project?
(Assumptions: Tax rate  40%, Effective discount rate  13%, Depreciation  $300,000
per year, and production will occur over the next five years only.)
Pessimistic
Expected
Optimistic
Market size
110,000
120,000
130,000
Market share
22%
25%
27%
Price
$
115
$
120
$
125
Variable costs
$
72
$
70
$
68
Fixed costs
$ 850,000
$ 800,000
$ 750,000
Investment
$1,500,000
$1,500,000
$1,500,000
8.12 What would happen to the analysis done above if your competitor introduces a graphite
composite that is even lighter than your product? What factors would this likely affect? Do
an NPV analysis assuming market size increases (due to more awareness of graphite-based
rackets) to the level predicted by the optimistic scenario but your market share decreases to
the pessimistic level (due to competitive forces). What does this tell you about the relative
importance of market size versus market share?
The Option to Abandon
8.13 You have been hired as a financial analyst to do a feasibility study of a new video game for
Passivision. Marketing research suggests Passivision can sell 12,000 units per year at
$62.50 net cash flow per unit for the next 10 years. Total annual operating cash flow is
forecasted to be $62.50  12,000  $750,000. The relevant discount rate is 10 percent.
The required initial investment is $10 million.
a. What is the base case NPV?
b. After one year, the video game project can be abandoned for $200,000. After one year,
expected cash flows will be revised upward to $1.5 million or to $0 with equal
probability. What is the option value of abandonment? What is the revised NPV?
8.14 Allied Products is thinking about a new product launch. The vice president of marketing
suggests that Allied Products can sell 2 million units per year at $100 net cash flow per
unit for the next 10 years. Allied Products uses a 20-percent discount rate for new product
launches and the required initial investment is $100 million.
a. What is the base case NPV?
b. After the first year, the project can be dismantled and sold for scrap for $50 million. If
expected cash flows can be revised based on the first year’s experience, when would it
make sense to abandon the project? (Hint: At what level of expected cash flows does it
make sense to abandon the project?)
218
Part II
Value and Capital Budgeting

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
Introduction
225
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Risk
PART III
9 Capital Market Theory: An Overview 220
10 Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM) 242
11 An Alternative View of Risk and Return: The Arbitrage Pricing Theory 285
12 Risk, Cost of Capital, and Capital Budgeting 307
T
HIS part of the book examines the relationship between expected return and risk for
portfolios and individual assets. When capital markets are in equilibrium, they de-
termine a trade-off between expected return and risk. The returns that shareholders can
expect to obtain in the capital markets are the ones they will require from firms when the
firms evaluate risky investment projects. The shareholders’ required return is the firm’s
cost of equity capital.
Chapter 9 examines the modern history of the U.S. capital markets. A central fact
emerges: The return on risky assets has been higher on average than the return on risk-
free assets. This fact supports the perspective for our examination of risk and return. In
Chapter 9 we introduce several key intuitions of modern finance and show how they can
be useful in determining a firm’s cost of capital.
Chapters 10 and 11 contain more advanced discussions of risk and expected return.
The chapters are self-contained and build on the material in Chapter 9.
Chapter 10 shows what determines the relationship between return and risk for port-
folios. The model of risk and expected return used in the chapter is called the capital-
asset-pricing model (CAPM).
Chapter 11 examines risk and return from another perspective: the arbitrage pricing
theory (APT). This approach yields insights that one cannot get from the CAPM. The
key concept is that the total risk of individual stocks can be divided into two parts: sys-
tematic and unsystematic. The fundamental principle of diversification is that, for highly
diversified portfolios, unsystematic risk disappears; only systematic risk survives.
The section on risk finishes with a discussion in Chapter 12 on estimating a firm’s
cost of equity capital and some of the problems that are encountered in doing so.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
226
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
CHAPTER 9
Capital Market Theory:
An Overview
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
W
e learned in Chapter 4 that riskless cash flows should be discounted at the risk-
less rate of interest. Because most capital-budgeting projects involve risky flows,
a different discount rate must be used. The next four chapters are devoted to de-
termining the discount rate for risky projects.
Past experience indicates that students find the upcoming material among the most dif-
ficult in the entire textbook. Because of this, we always teach the material by presenting the
results and conclusions first. By seeing where we are going ahead of time, it is easier to ab-
sorb the material when we get there. A synopsis of the four chapters follows:
1. Because our ultimate goal is to discount risky cash flows, we must first find a way to
measure risk. In the current chapter we measure the variability of an asset by the vari-
ance or standard deviation of its returns. If an individual holds only one asset, its vari-
ance or standard deviation would be the appropriate measure of risk.
2. While Chapter 9 considers one type of asset in isolation, Chapter 10 examines a portfo-
lio of many assets. In this case, we are interested in the contribution of the security to the
risk of the entire portfolio. Because much of an individual security’s variance is dispersed
in a large diversified portfolio, neither the security’s variance nor its standard deviation
can be viewed as the security’s contribution to the risk of a large portfolio. Rather, this
contribution is best measured by the security’s beta (). As an example, consider a stock
whose returns are high when the returns on a large, diversified portfolio are low—and
vice versa. This stock has a negative beta. In other words, it acts as a hedge, implying that
the stock actually tends to reduce the risk of the portfolio. However, the stock could have
a high variance, implying high risk for an investor holding only this security.
3. Investors will only hold a risky security if its expected return is high enough to com-
pensate for its risk. Given the above, the expected return on a security should be posi-
tively related to the security’s beta. In fact, the relationship between risk and expected
return can be expressed more precisely by the following equation:
Expected return  Risk-free  Beta  
Expected return on  Risk-free
on a security
rate
market portfolio
rate
Because the term in parentheses on the right-hand side is positive, this equation says that
the expected return on a security is a positive function of its beta. This equation is fre-
quently referred to as the capital-asset-pricing model (CAPM).
4. We derive the relationship between risk and return in a different manner in Chapter 11.
However, many of the conclusions are quite similar. This chapter is based on the arbi-
trage pricing theory (APT).
5. The theoretical ideas in Chapters 9, 10, and 11 are intellectually challenging. Fortunately,
Chapter 12, which applies the above theory to the selection of discount rates, is much sim-
pler. In a world where (a) a project has the same risk as the firm, and (b) the firm has no

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
227
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 9
Capital Market Theory: An Overview
221
debt, the expected return on the stock should serve as the project’s discount rate. This ex-
pected return is taken from the capital-asset-pricing model, as presented above.
Because we have a long road ahead of us, the maxim that any journey begins with a sin-
gle step applies here. We start with the perhaps mundane calculation of a security’s return.
9.1 RETURNS
Dollar Returns
Suppose the Video Concept Company has several thousand shares of stock outstanding and
you are a shareholder. Further suppose that you purchased some of the shares of stock in
the company at the beginning of the year; it is now year-end and you want to figure out how
well you have done on your investment. The return you get on an investment in stocks, like
that in bonds or any other investment, comes in two forms.
First, over the year most companies pay dividends to shareholders. As the owner of
stock in the Video Concept Company, you are a part owner of the company. If the company
is profitable, it generally will distribute some of its profits to the shareholders. Therefore,
as the owner of shares of stock, you will receive some cash, called a dividend, during the
year.1 This cash is the income component of your return. In addition to the dividends, the
other part of your return is the capital gain—or, if it is negative, the capital loss (negative
capital gain)—on the investment.
For example, suppose we are considering the cash flows of the investment in Figure 9.1
and you purchased 100 shares of stock at the beginning of the year at a price of $37 per share.
Your total investment, then, would be
C0  $37  100  $3,700
Suppose that over the year the stock paid a dividend of $1.85 per share. During the year,
then, you would have received income of
Div  $1.85  100  $185
Suppose, lastly, that at the end of the year the market price of the stock is $40.33 per share.
Because the stock increased in price, you have a capital gain of
Gain  ($40.33  $37)  100  $333
1In fact, companies often continue to pay dividends even when they have lost money during the year.
0
Time
Initial
investment
–$3,700
$4,033
$185
$4,218
TOTAL
Dividends
Ending
market
value
1
Inflows
Outflows
I FIGURE 9.1 Dollar Returns

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
228
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The capital gain, like the dividend, is part of the return that shareholders require to main-
tain their investment in the Video Concept Company. Of course, if the price of Video Concept
stock had dropped in value to, say, $34.78, you would have recorded a capital loss of
Loss  ($34.78  $37)  100  $222
The total dollar return on your investment is the sum of the dividend income and the cap-
ital gain or loss on the investment:
Total dollar return  Dividend income  Capital gain (or loss)
(From now on we will refer to capital losses as negative capital gains and not distinguish
them.) In our first example, then, the total dollar return is given by
Total dollar return  $185  $333  $518
Notice that if you sold the stock at the end of the year, your total amount of cash would be the
initial investment plus the total dollar return. In the preceding example, then, you would have
Total cash if stock is sold  Initial investment  Total dollar return
 $3,700  $518
 $4,218
As a check, notice that this is the same as the proceeds from the sale of stock plus the
dividends:
Proceeds from stock sale  Dividends
 $40.33  100  $185
 $4,033  $185
 $4,218
Suppose, however, that you hold your Video Concept stock and don’t sell it at year-end.
Should you still consider the capital gain as part of your return? Does this violate our pre-
vious present value rule that only cash matters?
The answer to the first question is a strong yes, and the answer to the second question
is an equally strong no. The capital gain is every bit as much a part of your return as is the
dividend, and you should certainly count it as part of your total return. That you have de-
cided to hold onto the stock and not sell or realize the gain or the loss in no way changes
the fact that, if you want to, you could get the cash value of the stock.2
Percentage Returns
It is more convenient to summarize the information about returns in percentage terms than
in dollars, because the percentages apply to any amount invested. The question we want to
answer is: How much return do we get for each dollar invested? To find this out, let t stand
for the year we are looking at, let Pt be the price of the stock at the beginning of the year,
and let Divt1 be the dividend paid on the stock during the year. Consider the cash flows in
Figure 9.2.
222
Part III
Risk
2After all, you could always sell the stock at year-end and immediately buy it back. As we previously computed,
the total dollar return on the investment would be $518 before you bought the stock back. The total amount of
cash you would have at year-end would be this $518 plus your initial investment of $3,700. You would not lose
this return when you bought back 100 shares of stock. In fact, you would be in exactly the same position as if
you had not sold the stock (assuming, of course, that there are no tax consequences and no brokerage
commissions from selling the stock).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
229
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
In our example, the price at the beginning of the year was $37 per share and the divi-
dend paid during the year on each share was $1.85. Hence the percentage of income return,3
sometimes called the dividend yield, is
Dividend yield  Divt1/Pt  $1.85/$37  0.05  5%
Capital gain is the change in the price of the stock divided by the initial price. Letting
Pt1 be the price of the stock at year-end, the capital gain can be computed
Capital gain  (Pt1  Pt)/Pt  ($40.33  $37)/$37 
 $3.33/$37
 0.09
 9%
Combining these two results, we find that the total return on the investment in Video
Concept stock over the year, which we will label Rt1, was
 5%  9%
 $14%
From now on we will refer to returns in percentage terms.
EXAMPLE
Suppose a stock begins the year with a price of $25 per share and ends with a price
of $35 per share. During the year it paid a $2 dividend per share. What are its div-
idend yield, its capital gain, and its total return for the year? We can imagine the
cash flows in Figure 9.3.
Rt1  Divt1
Pt
 Pt1  Pt
Pt
Chapter 9
Capital Market Theory: An Overview
223
Time
–$37
$40.33
$1.85
$42.18
TOTAL
Dividends
Ending
market
value
t 1
Inflows
Outflows
t
I FIGURE 9.2 Percentage Returns
Dividends paid
Change in market
Percentage return 
Dividends paid
Market value
1  Percentage return  at end of period   at end of period
Beginning market value
 at end of period   value over period
Beginning market value
3We will use 0.05 and 5 percent interchangeably. Keep in mind that, although (0.05)2  0.0025, (52)%  25%.
Thus, it is important to keep track of parentheses so that decimal points land where they belong.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
230
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
 8% 
40%
 48%
Thus, the stock’s dividend yield, its capital gain yield, and its total return are 8 per-
cent, 40 percent, and 48 percent, respectively.
Suppose you had $5,000 invested. The total dollar return you would have re-
ceived on an investment in the stock is $5,000  0.48  $2,400. If you know the
total dollar return on the stock, you do not need to know how many shares you
would have had to purchase to figure out how much money you would have made
on the $5,000 investment. You just use the total dollar return.4
• What are the two parts of total return?
• Why are unrealized capital gains or losses included in the calculation of returns?
• What is the difference between a dollar return and a percentage return?
 $2
$25   $35  $25
$25
  $12
$25
R1  Div1
P0
 P1  P0
P0
224
Part III
Risk
Time
$35
$2
TOTAL
Dividends (Div1)
Ending
price per
share (P1)
1
Cash inflows
Cash outflows
0
$37
–$25 (P0)
I FIGURE 9.3 Cash Flow—An Investment Example
4Consider the stock in the previous example. We have ignored the question of when during the year you receive
the dividend. Does it make a difference? To explore this question, suppose first that the dividend is paid at the
very beginning of the year, and you receive it the moment after you have purchased the stock. Suppose, too, that
interest rates are 10 percent, and that immediately after receiving the dividend you loan it out. What will be your
total return, including the loan proceeds, at the end of the year?
Alternatively, instead of loaning out the dividend you could have reinvested it and purchased more of the
stock. If that is what you do with the dividend, what will your total return be? (Warning: This does not go on
forever, and when you buy more stock with the cash from the dividend on your first purchase, you are too late to
get yet another dividend on the new stock.)
Finally, suppose the dividend is paid at year-end. What answer would you get for the total return?
As you can see, by ignoring the question of when the dividend is paid when we calculate the return, we are
implicitly assuming that it is received at the end of the year and cannot be reinvested during the year. The right
way to figure out the return on a stock is to determine exactly when the dividend is received and to include the
return that comes from reinvesting the dividend in the stock. This gives a pure stock return without confounding
the issue by requiring knowledge of the interest rate during the year.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
231
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
9.2 HOLDING-PERIOD RETURNS
A famous set of studies dealing with rates of return on common stocks, bonds, and Trea-
sury bills was conducted by Roger Ibbotson and Rex Sinquefield.5 They present year-by-
year historical rates of return for the following five important types of financial instruments
in the United States:
1. Large-Company Common Stocks. The common-stock portfolio is based on the Standard
& Poor’s (S&P) composite index. At present, the S&P composite includes 500 of the
largest (in terms of market value) stocks in the United States.
2. Small-Company Common Stocks. This is a portfolio composed of the bottom fifth of
stocks traded on the New York Stock Exchange in which stocks are ranked by market
value (i.e., the price of the stock multiplied by the number of shares outstanding).
3. Long-Term Corporate Bonds. This is a portfolio of high-quality corporate bonds with a
20-year maturity.
4. Long-Term U.S. Government Bonds. This is a portfolio of U.S. government bonds with
a maturity of 20 years.
5. U.S. Treasury Bills. This is a portfolio of Treasury bills of three-month maturity.
None of the returns are adjusted for taxes or transactions costs. In addition to the year-
by-year returns on financial instruments, the year-to-year change in the consumer price in-
dex is computed. This is a basic measure of inflation. Year-by-year real returns can be cal-
culated by subtracting annual inflation.
Before looking closely at the different portfolio returns, we graphically present the
returns and risks available from U.S. capital markets in the 74-year period from 1926 to
1999. Figure 9.4 shows the growth of $1 invested at the beginning of 1926. Notice that
the vertical axis is logarithmic, so that equal distances measure the same number of per-
centage changes. The figure shows that if $1 were invested in common stocks and all
dividends were reinvested, the dollar would have grown to $2,845.63 by the end of 1999.
The biggest growth was in the small-stock portfolio. If $1 were invested in small stocks
in 1926, the investment would have grown to $6,640.79. However, when you look care-
fully at Figure 9.4, you can see great variability in the returns on small stocks, especially
in the earlier part of the period. A dollar in long-term government bonds was very sta-
ble as compared with a dollar in common stocks. Figures 9.5 to 9.8 plot each year-to-
year percentage return as a vertical bar drawn from the horizontal axis for common
stocks, for small-company stocks, for long-term bonds and Treasury bills, and for infla-
tion, respectively.
Figure 9.4 gives the growth of a dollar investment in the stock market from 1926
through 1999. In other words, it shows what the worth of the investment would have been
if the dollar had been left in the stock market and if each year the dividends from the pre-
vious year had been reinvested in more stock. If Rt is the return in year t (expressed in dec-
imals), the value you would have at the end of year T is the product of 1 plus the return in
each of the years:
(1  R1)  (1  R2)  . . .  (1  Rt)  . . .  (1  RT)
Chapter 9
Capital Market Theory: An Overview
225
5The most recent update of this work is Stocks, Bonds, Bills and Inflation: 2000 Yearbook™(Chicago: Ibbotson
Associates). All rights reserved.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
232
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
226
Part III
Risk
$10,000
$1,000
$100
$10
$1
$0
1925
Index
1935
1945
1955
1965
1975
1985
1999
Year-End
Long-term
government bonds
Small-company
stocks
Large-company
stocks
Treasury bills
Inflation
$6,640.79
$2,845.63
$40.22
$15.64
$9.39
I FIGURE 9.4 A $1 Investment in Different Types of Portfolios,
1926–1999 (Year-end 1925  $1.00)
Redrawn from Stocks, Bonds, Bills and Inflation: 2000 Yearbook,™annual updates work by Roger G. Ibbotson
and Rex A. Sinquefield (Chicago: Ibbotson Associates). All rights reserved.
60
1925
1935
1945
1955
1965
1975
1985
1999
Year
50
40
30
20
10
0
–10
–20
–30
–40
–50
Total annual returns in percent
I FIGURE 9.5 Year-by-Year Total Returns on Common Stocks
Redrawn from Stocks, Bonds, Bills and Inflation: 2000 Yearbook,™annual updates work by Roger G.
Ibbotson and Rex A. Sinquefield (Chicago: Ibbotson Associates). All rights reserved.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
233
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
For example, if the returns were 11 percent, 5 percent, and 9 percent in a three-year pe-
riod, an investment of $1 at the beginning of the period would be worth
(1  R1)  (1  R2)  (1  R3)  ($1  0.11)  ($1  0.05)  ($1  0.09)
 $1.11  $0.95  $1.09
 $1.15
at the end of the three years. Notice that 0.15 or 15 percent is the total return and that it in-
cludes the return from reinvesting the first-year dividends in the stock market for two more
years and reinvesting the second-year dividends for the final year. The 15 percent is called
a three-year holding-period return. Table 9.1 gives the annual returns each year from
1926 to 1999. From this table you can determine holding-period returns for any combina-
tion of years.
• What is the largest one-period return in the 74-year history of common stocks we have
displayed, and when did it occur? What is the smallest return, and when did it occur?
• In how many years did the common-stock return exceed 30 percent, and in how many
years was it below 20 percent?
• For common stocks, what is the longest period of time without a single losing year? What
is the longest streak of losing years?
• What is the longest period of time such that if you had invested at the beginning of the
period, you would still not have had a positive return on your common-stock investment
by the end?
Chapter 9
Capital Market Theory: An Overview
227
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
–20
–40
–60
1935
1945
1955
1965
1975
1985
1999
1925
Total annual returns in percent
Year
I FIGURE 9.6 Year-by-Year Total Returns on Small-Company Stocks
Redrawn from Stocks, Bonds, Bills and Inflation: 2000 Yearbook,™annual updates work by Roger G. Ibbotson
and Rex A. Sinquefield (Chicago: Ibbotson Associates). All rights reserved.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
234
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
228
Part III
Risk
Total annual returns in percent
50
40
30
20
10
0
–10
1925
1935
1945
1955
1965
1975
1985
1999
Year
1999
Long-term government bonds
Treasury bills
Total annual returns in percent
16
12
10
4
0
–2
1925
1935
1945
1955
1965
1975
1985
Year
2
6
8
14
I FIGURE 9.7 Year-by-Year Total Returns on Bonds and Bills
Redrawn from Stocks, Bonds, Bills and Inflation: 2000 Yearbook,™annual updates work by Roger G.
Ibbotson and Rex A. Sinquefield (Chicago: Ibbotson Associates). All rights reserved.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
235
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 9
Capital Market Theory: An Overview
229
Total annual returns in percent
–15
0
5
10
15
20
1935
1945
1955
1965
1975
1985
1999
1925
Year
–10
–5
I FIGURE 9.8 Year-by-Year Inflation
Redrawn from Stocks, Bonds, Bills and Inflation: 2000 Yearbook,™annual updates work by Roger G.
Ibbotson and Rex A. Sinquefield (Chicago: Ibbotson Associates). All rights reserved.
I TABLE 9.1 Year-by-Year Total Returns, 1926–1999
Long-Term
Long-Term
Large-Company
Government
Corporate
U.S. Treasury
Year
Stocks
Bonds
Bonds
Bills
Inflation
1926
13.70%
6.40%
7.00%
4.40%
1.10%
1927
35.80%
4.51%
6.54%
4.21%
2.33%
1928
45.14%
0.18%
3.42%
4.87%
1.14%
1929
8.88%
5.66%
4.33%
6.05%
0.63%
1930
25.22%
4.16%
6.34%
3.72%
6.45%
1931
43.75%
0.41%
2.45%
2.63%
9.23%
1932
8.38%
5.61%
12.23%
2.95%
10.29%
1933
53.11%
5.92%
5.24%
1.66%
0.68%
1934
2.41%
5.95%
9.75%
1.04%
1.63%
1935
46.94%
3.22%
6.89%
0.29%
2.94%
1936
32.35%
1.73%
6.22%
0.15%
1.43%
1937
35.68%
4.63%
2.50%
0.44%
2.81%
1938
32.29%
4.74%
4.36%
0.07%
2.74%
1939
1.54%
2.26%
4.28%
0.00%
0.00%
1940
10.54%
4.25%
4.49%
0.00%
0.77%
1941
12.14%
1.56%
1.78%
0.07%
9.90%
1942
20.98%
1.82%
3.14%
0.36%
9.01%
1943
25.52%
2.00%
3.35%
0.36%
2.97%
1944
19.46%
2.28%
3.12%
0.36%
2.26%
1945
36.35%
5.23%
3.51%
0.36%
2.31%
1946
8.48%
0.54%
2.52%
0.43%
18.09%
1947
4.96%
0.93%
0.46%
0.57%
8.83%
(continued)

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
236
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
230
I TABLE 9.1 Year-by-Year Total Returns, 1926–1999, continued
Long-Term
Long-Term
Large-Company
Government
Corporate
U.S. Treasury
Year
Stocks
Bonds
Bonds
Bills
Inflation
1948
4.95%
2.62%
3.72%
0.99%
2.98%
1949
17.74%
4.53%
4.32%
1.12%
2.08%
1950
30.04%
0.92%
1.91%
1.25%
5.99%
1951
23.88%
0.14%
0.24%
1.51%
5.94%
1952
18.44%
2.42%
3.45%
1.76%
0.81%
1953
1.11%
2.32%
2.05%
1.93%
0.74%
1954
52.44%
3.07%
4.65%
0.98%
0.73%
1955
31.65%
0.69%
1.07%
1.68%
0.34%
1956
6.90%
1.61%
1.78%
2.66%
3.01%
1957
10.53%
6.75%
4.48%
3.34%
2.92%
1958
43.73%
1.61%
0.85%
1.79%
1.76%
1959
12.02%
1.89%
0.15%
3.35%
1.67%
1960
0.45%
11.04%
6.71%
3.13%
1.40%
1961
26.90%
2.24%
3.69%
2.32%
0.66%
1962
8.79%
6.03%
6.20%
2.80%
1.31%
1963
22.72%
1.42%
3.17%
3.20%
1.65%
1964
16.43%
3.89%
3.97%
3.56%
0.98%
1965
12.37%
1.05%
2.10%
4.02%
1.95%
1966
10.10%
4.81%
0.26%
4.90%
3.43%
1967
24.04%
2.36%
1.17%
4.49%
3.05%
1968
11.03%
1.66%
4.17%
5.42%
4.70%
1969
8.47%
4.82%
2.46%
6.81%
6.20%
1970
4.00%
18.15%
11.18%
6.68%
5.56%
1971
14.35%
11.39%
9.70%
4.51%
3.28%
1972
19.00%
2.51%
8.32%
4.04%
3.40%
1973
14.85%
3.50%
2.99%
6.98%
8.72%
1974
26.58%
3.82%
0.22%
8.09%
16.20%
1975
37.42%
5.63%
11.04%
6.04%
3.40%
1976
23.76%
15.20%
14.57%
5.16%
4.84%
1977
7.38%
0.55%
5.50%
5.26%
6.71%
1978
6.54%
0.99%
1.84%
7.23%
9.02%
1979
18.59%
0.50%
1.55%
10.32%
13.30%
1980
32.61%
0.63%
4.99%
12.04%
12.51%
1981
4.97%
2.62%
8.98%
15.21%
8.92%
1982
21.67%
43.98%
34.90%
11.28%
3.85%
1983
22.57%
2.03%
7.30%
8.89%
3.78%
1984
6.19%
15.96%
17.10%
10.04%
3.96%
1985
31.85%
30.34%
29.37%
7.70%
3.79%
1986
18.68%
22.86%
21.26%
6.18%
1.10%
1987
5.22%
3.24%
1.82%
5.87%
4.44%
1988
16.58%
6.86%
13.78%
6.73%
4.42%
1989
31.75%
18.64%
15.30%
8.48%
4.65%
1990
3.13%
7.26%
8.60%
7.85%
6.10%
1991
30.53%
18.52%
15.63%
5.71%
3.06%
1992
7.62%
8.52%
10.88%
3.57%
2.89%
1993
10.07%
13.45%
14.68%
3.08%
2.75%
1994
1.27%
7.31%
2.42%
4.15%
2.68%
1995
37.80%
24.86%
22.03%
5.64%
2.53%
1996
22.74%
1.63%
3.87%
5.12%
3.32%
1997
33.43%
10.89%
11.11%
5.22%
1.70%
1998
28.13%
13.44%
11.44%
5.06%
1.61%
1999
21.03%
7.12%
2.30%
4.85%
2.69%
Global Financial Data (www.globalfindata.com) copyright 2000.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
237
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
9.3 RETURN STATISTICS
The history of capital-market returns is too complicated to be handled in its undigested
form. To use the history we must first find some manageable ways of describing it, dra-
matically condensing the detailed data into a few simple statements.
This is where two important numbers summarizing the history come in. The first and
most natural number is some single measure that best describes the past annual returns on
the stock market. In other words, what is our best estimate of the return that an investor could
have realized in a particular year over the 1926-to-1999 period? This is the average return.
Figure 9.9 plots the histogram of the yearly stock market returns given in Table 9.1.
This plot is the frequency distribution of the numbers. The height of the graph gives the
number of sample observations in the range on the horizontal axis.
Given a frequency distribution like that in Figure 9.9, we can calculate the average or
mean of the distribution. To compute the arithmetic average of the distribution, we add up
all of the values and divide by the total (T) number (74 in our case because we have 74 years
Chapter 9
Capital Market Theory: An Overview
231
Small-Company Stocks
Large-Company Stocks
–10
0
–20
–30
–40
–50
–60
–70
–80
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
1931 1937 1930
1941 1929 1947 1926
1942 1927
1928 1933
1974
1957 1932 1948 1944
1943 1936 1935 1954
1966 1934 1956 1949
1951 1938
1958
1939 1960
1973
1952
1961 1945
1940 1970 1959
1963 1950
1946 1978 1964
1967 1955
1953 1984 1965
1976 1975
1962 1987 1968
1982 1980
1969 1992 1971
1983 1985
1977 1993 1972
1996
1998
1999
1989
1981 1994 1979
1991
1990
1986
1995
1988
1997
–10
0
–20
–30
–40
–50
–60
–70
–80
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
1931 1930 1969
1946 1932 1926 1949
1927 1928 1935 1944
1957 1940 1939 1959
1934 1938 1942 1975
1962 1941 1947 1971
1955 1950 1965
1948 1951
1970
1981
1963 1961
1953 1952 1989
1964 1968
1960 1956 1996
1977 1980
1966 1972
1978 1983
1984 1986
1982 1995
1987
1998
1994
1985
1988
150
140
1929
1936 1945
1943
1933
1937
1973
1954
1967
1974
1979
1991
1992
1993
1997
1999
1976 1958
1990
I FIGURE 9.9 Histogram of Returns on Common Stocks, 1926–1999
Redrawn from Stocks, Bonds, Bills and Inflation: 2000 Yearbook,™annual updates work by Roger G. Ibbotson and Rex A. Sinquefield
(Chicago: Ibbotson Associates). All rights reserved.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
238
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
of data). The bar over the R is used to represent the mean, and the formula is the ordinary
formula for the average:
The arithmetic mean of the 74 annual returns from 1926 to 1999 is 13.3 percent.
EXAMPLE
The returns on common stock from 1926 to 1929 are 0.1370, 0.3580, 0.4514, and
0.0888, respectively. (These numbers are taken from Table 9.1.) The average, or
mean, return over these four years is
9.4 AVERAGE STOCK RETURNS AND RISK-FREE RETURNS
Now that we have computed the average return on the stock market, it seems sensible to
compare it with the returns on other securities. The most obvious comparison is with the
low-variability returns in the government-bond market. These are free of most of the volatil-
ity we see in the stock market.
The government borrows money by issuing bonds, which the investing public holds.
As we discussed in an earlier chapter, these bonds come in many forms, and the ones we
will look at here are called Treasury bills, or T-bills. Once a week the government sells some
bills at an auction. A typical bill is a pure discount bond that will mature in a year or less.
Because the government can raise taxes to pay for the debt it incurs—a trick that many of
us would like to be able to perform—this debt is virtually free of the risk of default. Thus
we will call this the risk-free return over a short time (one year or less).6
An interesting comparison, then, is between the virtually risk-free return on T-bills and
the very risky return on common stocks. This difference between risky returns and risk-free
returns is often called the excess return on the risky asset. It is called excess because it is
the additional return resulting from the riskiness of common stocks and is interpreted as a
risk premium.
Table 9.2 shows the average stock return, bond return, T-bill return, and inflation rate
for the period from 1926 through 1999. From this we can derive excess returns. The average
excess return from common stocks for the entire period was 9.5 percent (13.3%  3.8%).
One of the most significant observations of stock market data is this long-run excess of
the stock return over the risk-free return. An investor for this period was rewarded for in-
vestment in the stock market with an extra or excess return over what would have been
achieved by simply investing in T-bills.
Why was there such a reward? Does it mean that it never pays to invest in T-bills and
that someone who invested in them instead of in the stock market needs a course in finance?
A complete answer to these questions lies at the heart of modern finance, and Chapter 10
is devoted entirely to this. However, part of the answer can be found in the variability of the
R  0.1370  0.3580  0.4514  0.0888
4
 0.2144
Mean  R  R1  . . .  RT
T
232
Part III
Risk
6A Treasury bill with a 90-day maturity is risk-free only during that particular time period.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
239
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
various types of investments. We see in Table 9.1 many years when an investment in T-bills
achieved higher returns than an investment in common stocks. Also, we note that the re-
turns from an investment in common stocks are frequently negative whereas an investment
in T-bills never produces a negative return. So, we now turn our attention to measuring the
variability of returns and an introductory discussion of risk.
Now we look more closely at Table 9.2. We see that the standard deviation of T-bills is
substantially less than that of common stocks. This suggests that the risk of T-bills is less
than that of common stocks. Because the answer turns on the riskiness of investments in
common stock, we now turn our attention to measuring this risk.
• What is the major observation about capital markets that we will seek to explain?
• What does the observation tell us about investors for the period from 1926 through 1999?
Chapter 9
Capital Market Theory: An Overview
233
 Series
Large-company
stocks
Small-company
stocks
Long-term
corporate bonds
Long-term
government bonds
Intermediate-term
government bonds
U.S. Treasury bills
Inflation
Arithmetic
mean
Risk premium
(relative to U.S.
Treasury bills)
Standard
deviation
13.3%
17.6
5.9
5.5
5.4
3.8
3.2
13.8
2.1
1.7
1.6
9.5%
20.1%
33.6
8.7
9.3
5.8
3.2
4.5
Distribution
–90%
0%
90%
*
TABLE 9.2 Total Annual Returns, 1926–1999
*The 1933 small-company stock total return was 142.9 percent.
Modified from Stocks, Bonds, Bills and Inflation: 2000 Yearbook,™annual updates work by Roger G. Ibbotson and Rex. A. Sinquefield
(Chicago: Ibbotson Associates). All rights reserved.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
240
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
9.5 RISK STATISTICS
The second number that we use to characterize the distribution of returns is a measure of
the risk in returns. There is no universally agreed-upon definition of risk. One way to think
about the risk of returns on common stock is in terms of how spread out the frequency dis-
tribution in Figure 9.9 is.7 The spread, or dispersion, of a distribution is a measure of how
much a particular return can deviate from the mean return. If the distribution is very spread
out, the returns that will occur are very uncertain. By contrast, a distribution whose returns
are all within a few percentage points of each other is tight, and the returns are less uncer-
tain. The measures of risk we will discuss are variance and standard deviation.
Variance
The variance and its square root, the standard deviation, are the most common measures
of variability or dispersion. We will use Var and 2 to denote the variance and SD and  to
represent the standard deviation.  is, of course, the Greek letter sigma.
EXAMPLE
The returns on common stocks from 1926 to 1929 are (in decimals) 0.1370, 0.3580,
0.4514, and 0.0888, respectively. The variance of this sample is computed as
0.0582  1⁄3[(0.1370  0.2144)2  (0.3580  0.2144)2 
(0.4514  0.2144)2  (0.0888  0.2144)2]
SD 
 0.2413
(i.e., 24.13%)
This formula tells us just what to do: Take the T individual returns (R1, R2, . . .) and subtract
the average return , square the result, and add them up. Finally, this total must be divided
by the number of returns less one (T  1). The standard deviation is always just the square
root of the variance.
Using the actual stock returns in Table 9.1 for the 74-year period from 1926 through
1999 in the above formula, the resulting standard deviation of stock returns is 20.1 percent.
The standard deviation is the standard statistical measure of the spread of a sample, and it
will be the measure we use most of the time. Its interpretation is facilitated by a discussion
of the normal distribution.
Normal Distribution and Its Implications 
for Standard Deviation
A large enough sample drawn from a normal distribution looks like the bell-shaped curve
drawn in Figure 9.10. As you can see, this distribution is symmetric about its mean, not
skewed, and it has a much cleaner shape than the actual distribution of yearly returns drawn
R
0.0582
Var 
1
T  1 R1  R 2  R2  R 2  R3  R 2  R4  R 2
234
Part III
Risk
7Several condensed frequency distributions are also in the extreme right column of Table 9.2.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
241
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
in Figure 9.9.8 Of course, if we had been able to observe stock market returns for 1,000 years,
we might have filled in a lot of the jumps and jerks in Figure 9.9 and had a smoother curve.
In classical statistics the normal distribution plays a central role, and the standard de-
viation is the usual way to represent the spread of a normal distribution. For the normal dis-
tribution, the probability of having a return that is above or below the mean by a certain
amount depends only on the standard deviation. For example, the probability of having a
return that is within one standard deviation of the mean of the distribution is approximately
0.68 or 2/3, and the probability of having a return that is within two standard deviations of
the mean is approximately 0.95.
The 20.1-percent standard deviation we found for stock returns from 1926 through
1999 can now be interpreted in the following way: If stock returns are roughly normally dis-
tributed, the probability that a yearly return will fall within 20.1 percent of the mean of 13.3
percent will be approximately 2/3. That is, about 2/3 of the yearly returns will be between
6.8 percent and 33.4 percent. (Note that 6.8%  13.3%  20.1% and 33.4%  13.3%
 20.1%.) The probability that the return in any year will fall within two standard devia-
tions is about 0.95. That is, about 95 percent of yearly returns will be between 26.9 per-
cent and 53.5 percent.
The distribution in Figure 9.10 is a theoretical distribution, sometimes called the popu-
lation distribution or true distribution. There is no assurance that the actual distribution of ob-
servations in a given sample will produce a histogram that looks exactly like the theoretical
distribution. We can see how messy the actual frequency function of historical observations
Chapter 9
Capital Market Theory: An Overview
235
8Some people define risk as the possibility of obtaining a return below the average. Some measures of risk, such
as semivariance, use only the negative deviations from the average return. However, for symmetric distributions,
such as the normal distribution, this method of measuring downside risk is equivalent to measuring risk with
deviations from the mean on both sides.
Probability
Return
on
stocks
–3
–2
–1
–47.0%
–26.9%
–6.8%
13.3%
0
1
2
3
33.4%
53.5%
73.6%
68.26%
95.44%
99.74%
I FIGURE 9.10 The Normal Distribution
In the case of a normal distribution, there is a 68.26-percent probability that a return will be within one
standard deviation of the mean. In this example, there is a 68.26-percent probability that a yearly return
will be between 6.8 percent and 33.4 percent.
There is a 95.44-percent probability that a return will be within two standard deviations of the mean.
In this example, there is a 95.44-percent probability that a yearly return will be between 26.9 percent
and 53.5 percent.
Finally, there is a 99.74-percent probability that a return will be within three standard deviations of
the mean. In this example, there is a 99.74-percent probability that a yearly return will be between
47.0 percent and 73.6 percent.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
242
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
236
Part III
Risk
is by observing Figure 9.9. If we were to keep on generating observations for a long enough
period of time, however, the aberrations in the sample would disappear, and the actual histor-
ical distribution would start to look like the underlying theoretical distribution.
This points out that sampling error exists in any individual sample. In other words, the
distribution of the sample only approximates the true distribution: we always measure the
truth with some error. For example, we do not know what the true expected return was for
common stocks in the 74-year history. However, we are sure that our 13.3 percent realized
return is very close to it.
• What is the definition of sample estimates of variance and standard deviation?
• How does the normal distribution help us interpret standard deviation?
9.6 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1. This chapter presents returns for a number of different asset classes. The general conclusion
is that stocks have outperformed bonds over most of the 20th century, though stocks have
also exhibited more risk.
2. The statistical measures in this chapter are necessary building blocks for the material of the
next three chapters. In particular, standard deviation and variance measure the variability of
the return on an individual security and on portfolios of securities. In the next chapter, we
will argue that standard deviation and variance are appropriate measures of the risk of an
individual security if an investor’s portfolio is composed of that security only.
KEY TERMS
Average (mean)
231
Normal distribution
234
Capital gain
223
Risk premium
232
Frequency distribution
231
Standard deviation
234
Holding-period return
227
Variance
234
SUGGESTED READINGS
An important record of the performance of financial instruments in the U.S. capital markets can
be found in:
Ibbotson, Roger G., and Rex A. Sinquefield. Stocks, Bonds, Bills and Inflation: 2000 Yearbook.™
Chicago: Ibbotson Associates.
What is the equity risk premium? This is the question addressed by:
Cornell, Bradford. The Equity Risk Premium: The Long Term Future of the Stock Market. New York:
John Wiley, 1999 and Shiller, Robert S. Irrational Exuberance. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton
University Press, 2000.
For a look at market risk premiums worldwide, see:
Jorion, P., and W. N. Goetzmann, “Global Stock Markets in the Twentieth Century.” Journal of
Finance 54 (1999).
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
243
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Returns
9.1 Last year, you bought 500 shares of Twedt El Dee stock at $37 per share. You have received
total dividends of $1,000 during the year. Currently, Twedt El Dee stock sells for $38.
a. How much did you earn in capital gains?
b. What was your total dollar return?
c. What was your percentage return?
d. Must you sell the Twedt El Dee stock to include the capital gains in your return?
Explain.
9.2 Mr. Alexander Bell invested $10,400 in 200 shares of First Industries stock a year 
ago and has received total dividends of $600 during the period. He sold the stock today
at $54.25.
a. What was his total dollar return?
b. What was his capital gain?
c. What was his percentage return?
d. What was the stock’s dividend yield?
9.3 Suppose a stock had an initial price of $42 per share. During the year, the stock paid a
dividend of $2.40 per share. At the end of the year, the price is $31 per share. What is the
percentage return on this stock?
9.4 Lydian Stock currently sells for $52 per share. You intend to buy the stock today and hold it
for two years. During those two years, you expect to receive dividends at the year-ends that
total $5.50 per share. Finally, you expect to sell the Lydian stock for $54.75 per share. What
is your expected holding-period return on Lydian stock?
9.5 Use the information from Ibbotson and Sinquefield provided in the text to compute the
nominal and real annual returns from 1926 to 1997 for each of the following items.
a. Common stock
b. Long-term corporate bonds
c. Long-term government bonds
d. U.S. Treasury bills
9.6 Suppose the current interest rate on U.S. Treasury bills is 6.2 percent. Ibbotson and
Sinquefield found the average return on Treasury bills from 1926 through 1997 to be 3.8
percent. The average return on common stock during the same period was 13.0 percent.
Given this information, what is the current expected return on common stocks?
9.7 Two stocks, Koke and Pepsee, had the same prices two years ago. During the last two years,
Koke’s stock price had first increased by 10 percent and then dropped by 10 percent, while
Pepsee’s stock price had first dropped by 10 percent and then increased by 10 percent. Do
these two stocks have the same prices today? Explain.
9.8 S&P 500 index returns of common stocks for the period 1981–1985 are as follows.
Calculate the five-year holding-period return.
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
S&P 500 index return (%)
4.91
21.41
22.51
6.27
32.16
9.9 The Wall Street Journal announced yesterday that the current rate for one-year Treasury
bills is 4.36 percent, while an Ibbotson and Sinquefield study shows that the average return
on Treasury bills for the period 1926–1997 is 3.8 percent. During the same period the
average return on long-term corporate bonds is 6.1 percent. What is the risk premium of the
long-term corporate bonds? What is the expected return on the market of long-term
corporate bonds?
Chapter 9
Capital Market Theory: An Overview
237

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
244
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Average Returns, Expected Returns, and Variance
9.10 During the past seven years, the returns on a portfolio of long-term corporate bonds were
the following:
Year
Long-Term Corporate Bonds
7
2.6%
6
1.0
5
43.8
4
4.7
3
16.4
2
30.1
Last
19.9
a. Calculate the average return for long-term corporate bonds over this period.
b. Calculate the variance and the standard deviation of the returns for long-term corporate
bonds during this period.
9.11 The following are the returns during the past seven years on a market portfolio of common
stocks and on Treasury bills.
Common
Treasury
Year
Stocks
Bills
7
32.4%
11.2%
6
4.9
14.7
5
21.4
10.5
4
22.5
8.8
3
6.3
9.9
2
32.2
7.7
Last
18.5
6.2
The realized risk premium is the return on the common stocks less the return on the
Treasury bills.
a. Calculate the realized risk premium of common stocks over T-bills in each year.
b. Calculate the average risk premium of common stocks over T-bills during the
period.
c. Is it possible that this observed risk premium can be negative? Explain.
9.12 The probability that the economy will experience moderate growth next year is 0.6. The
probability of a recession is 0.2, and the probability of a rapid expansion is also 0.2. If the
economy falls into a recession, you can expect to receive a return on your portfolio of 5
percent. With moderate growth your return will be 8 percent. If there is a rapid expansion,
your portfolio will return 15 percent.
a. What is your expected return?
b. What is the standard deviation of that return?
9.13 The probability that the economy will experience moderate growth next year is 0.4. The
probability of a recession is 0.3, and the probability of a rapid expansion is also 0.3. If the
economy falls into a recession, you can expect to receive a return on your portfolio of 2
percent. With moderate growth your return will be 5 percent. If there is a rapid expansion,
your portfolio will return 10 percent.
a. What is your expected return?
b. What is the standard deviation of that return?
9.14 The returns on the market and on Trebli stock are shown below for the five possible states
of the economy that might prevail next year.
238
Part III
Risk

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
245
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Market
Trebli
Economic Condition
Probability
Return
Return
Rapid expansion
0.12
0.23
0.12
Moderate expansion
0.40
0.18
0.09
No growth
0.25
0.15
0.05
Moderate contraction
0.15
0.09
0.01
Serious contraction
0.08
0.03
0.02
a. What is the expected return on the market?
b. What is the expected return on Trebli stock?
9.15 Four equally likely states of the economy may prevail next year. Below are the returns on
the stocks of P and Q companies under each of the possible states.
State
P Stock
Q Stock
1
0.04
0.05
2
0.06
0.07
3
0.09
0.10
4
0.04
0.14
a. What is the expected return on each stock?
b. What is the variance of the returns of each stock?
9.16 The returns on the small-company stocks and on the S&P composite index of common
stocks from 1935 through 1939 are tabulated below.
Small-Company
Market Index of
Year
Stocks
Common Stocks
1935
47.7%
40.2%
1936
33.9
64.8
1937
35.0
58.0
1938
31.0
32.8
1939
 0.5
0.4
a. Calculate the average return for the small-company stocks and the market index of
common stocks.
b. Calculate the variance and standard deviation of returns for the small-company stocks
and the market index of common stocks.
9.17 The following data are the returns for 1980 through 1986 on five types of capital-market
instruments: common stocks, small-capitalization stocks, long-term corporate bonds, long-
term U.S. government bonds, and U.S. Treasury bills.
Long-Term
Long-Term
U.S.
Common
Small
Corporate
Government
Treasury
Year
Stock
Stocks
Bonds
Bonds
Bills
1980
0.3242
0.3988
0.0262
0.0395
0.1124
1981
0.0491
0.1388
0.0096
0.0185
0.1471
1982
0.2141
0.2801
0.4379
0.4035
0.1054
1983
0.2251
0.3967
0.0470
0.0068
0.0880
1984
0.0627
0.0667
0.1639
0.1543
0.0985
1985
0.3216
0.2466
0.3090
0.3097
0.0772
1986
0.1847
0.0685
0.1985
0.2444
0.0616
Calculate the average return and variance for each type of security.
Chapter 9
Capital Market Theory: An Overview
239

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
246
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Return and Risk Statistics
9.18 Ibbotson and Sinquefield have reported the returns on small-company stocks and U.S.
Treasury bills for the period 1986–1991 as follows.
Small-Company
U.S. Treasury
Year
Stocks
Bills
1986
6.85%
6.16%
1987
9.30
5.47
1988
22.87
6.35
1989
10.18
8.37
1990
21.56
7.81
1991
44.63
5.60
a. Calculate the average returns on small-company stocks and U.S. Treasury bills.
b. Calculate the variances and standard deviations of the returns on small-company stocks
and U.S. Treasury bills.
c. Compare the returns and risks of these two types of securities.
9.19 Suppose International Trading Company’s stock returns follow a normal distribution with
a mean of 17.5 percent and a standard deviation of 8.5 percent. What is the range of
returns in which about 95 percent of International Trading’s stock returns are located?
9.20 The returns on the market of common stocks and on Treasury bills are contingent on the
economy as follows.
Economic Condition
Probability
Market Return
Treasury Bills
Recession
0.25
8.2%
3.5%
Normal
0.50
12.3
3.5
Boom
0.25
25.8
3.5
a. Calculate the expected returns on the market and Treasury bills.
b. Calculate the expected risk premium.
Appendix 9A THE HISTORICAL MARKET RISK PREMIUM:
THE VERY LONG RUN
The data in Chapter 9 indicate that the returns on common stock have historically been
much higher than the returns on short-term government securities. This phenomenon has
bothered economists, since it is difficult to justify why large numbers of rational investors
purchase the lower yielding bills and bonds.
In 1985 Mehra and Prescott published a very influential paper that showed that the his-
torical returns for common stocks are far too high when compared to the rates of return on
short-term government securities.9 They point out that the difference in returns (frequently
called the market risk premium for equity) implies a very high degree of risk aversion on
the part of investors. Since the publication of the Mehra and Prescott research, financial
economists have tried to explain the so-called equity risk premium puzzle. The high his-
torical equity risk premium is especially intriguing compared to the very low historical rate
of return on Treasury securities. This seems to imply behavior that has not actually hap-
240
Part III
Risk
9Rajnish Mehra and Edward C. Prescott, “The Equity Premium: A Puzzle,” Journal of Monetary Economics 15
(1985), pp. 145–61.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
9. Capital Market Theory: 
An Overview
247
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
pened. For example, if people have been very risk-averse and historical borrowing rates
have been low, it suggests that persons should have been willing to borrow in periods of
economic uncertainty and downturn to avoid the possibility of a reduced standard of living.
However, we do not observe increased borrowing during recessions.
The equity risk premium puzzle of Mehra and Prescott has been generally viewed as
an unexplained paradox. However, recently, Jeremy Seigel has shown that the historical
risk premium may be substantially lower than previously realized (see Table 9A.1). He
shows that, while the risk premium averaged 9.5 percent from 1926 to 1999, it averaged
only 1.4 percent from 1802 to 1870, and 4.4 percent from 1871 to 1925.10 It is puzzling
that the trend has been rising over the last 200 years. It has been especially high since 1926.
However, the key point is that historically the risk premium has been lower than in more
recent times and we should be somewhat cautious about assumptions we make concern-
ing the current risk premium.
Chapter 9
Capital Market Theory: An Overview
241
10Jeremy J. Seigel, Stocks for the Long Run, 2nd ed. (New York City: McGraw-Hill, 1998).
I TABLE 9A.1
Overall
1802–1870
1871–1925
1926–1999
1802–1999
Common Stock
6.8
8.5
13.3
9.7
Treasury bills
5.4
4.1
3.8
4.4
Risk premium
1.4
4.4
9.5
5.3

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
248
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Return and Risk: The
Capital-Asset-Pricing
Model (CAPM)
CHAPTER 10
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
T
he previous chapter achieved two purposes. First, we acquainted you with the history of
U.S. capital markets. Second, we presented statistics such as expected return, variance,
and standard deviation. Our ultimate goal in the next three chapters is to determine the
appropriate discount rate for capital budgeting projects. Because the discount rate on a project
is a function of its risk, the discussion in the previous chapter on standard deviation is a neces-
sary first step. However, we shall see that standard deviation is not the final word on risk.
Our next step is to investigate the relationship between the risk and the return of indi-
vidual securities when these securities are part of a large portfolio. This task is taken up in
Chapter 10. The actual treatment of the appropriate discount rate for capital budgeting is re-
served for Chapter 12.
The crux of the current chapter can be summarized as follows: An individual who holds
one security should use expected return as the measure of the security’s return. Standard de-
viation or variance is the proper measure of the security’s risk. An individual who holds a
diversified portfolio cares about the contribution of each security to the expected return and
the risk of the portfolio. It turns out that a security’s expected return is the appropriate meas-
ure of the security’s contribution to the expected return on the portfolio. However, neither
the security’s variance nor the security’s standard deviation is an appropriate measure of a
security’s contribution to the risk of a portfolio. The contribution of a security to the risk of
a portfolio is best measured by beta.
10.1 INDIVIDUAL SECURITIES
In the first part of Chapter 10 we will examine the characteristics of individual securities.
In particular, we will discuss:
1. Expected Return. This is the return that an individual expects a stock to earn over the
next period. Of course, because this is only an expectation, the actual return may be either
higher or lower. An individual’s expectation may simply be the average return per period a
security has earned in the past. Alternatively, it may be based on a detailed analysis of a
firm’s prospects, on some computer-based model, or on special (or inside) information.
2. Variance and Standard Deviation. There are many ways to assess the volatility of a
security’s return. One of the most common is variance, which is a measure of the squared
deviations of a security’s return from its expected return. Standard deviation is the square
root of the variance.
3. Covariance and Correlation. Returns on individual securities are related to one another.
Covariance is a statistic measuring the interrelationship between two securities. Alternatively,

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
249
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
243
this relationship can be restated in terms of the correlation between the two securities.
Covariance and correlation are building blocks to an understanding of the beta coefficient.
10.2 EXPECTED RETURN, VARIANCE, AND COVARIANCE
Expected Return and Variance
Suppose financial analysts believe that there are four equally likely states of the economy:
depression, recession, normal, and boom times. The returns on the Supertech Company are
expected to follow the economy closely, while the returns on the Slowpoke Company are
not. The return predictions are as follows:
Supertech Returns
Slowpoke Returns
RAt
RBt
Depression
20%
5%
Recession
10
20
Normal
30
12
Boom
50
9
Variance can be calculated in four steps. An additional step is needed to calculate standard
deviation. (The calculations are presented in Table 10.1.) The steps are:
1. Calculate the expected return:
Supertech:
Slowpoke:
2. For each company, calculate the deviation of each possible return from the company’s
expected return given previously. This is presented in the third column of Table 10.1.
3. The deviations we have calculated are indications of the dispersion of returns. However,
because some are positive and some are negative, it is difficult to work with them in this
form. For example, if we were to simply add up all the deviations for a single company,
we would get zero as the sum.
To make the deviations more meaningful, we multiply each one by itself. Now all
the numbers are positive, implying that their sum must be positive as well. The squared
deviations are presented in the last column of Table 10.1.
4. For each company, calculate the average squared deviation, which is the variance:1
Supertech:
0.140625  0.005625  0.015625  0.105625
4
 0.066875
0.05  0.20  0.12  0.09
4
 0.055  5.5%  RB
0.20  0.10  0.30  0.50
4
 0.175  17.5%  RA
1In this example, the four states give rise to four possible outcomes for each stock. Had we used past data, the
outcomes would have actually occurred. In that case, statisticians argue that the correct divisor is N  1, where N
is the number of observations. Thus the denominator would be 3 ( (4  1)) in the case of past data, not 4. Note
that the example in Section 9.5 involved past data and we used a divisor of N  1. While this difference causes
grief to both students and textbook writers, it is a minor point in practice. In the real world, samples are generally
so large that using N or N  1 in the denominator has virtually no effect on the calculation of variance.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
250
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Slowpoke:
Thus, the variance of Supertech is 0.066875, and the variance of Slowpoke is 0.013225.
5. Calculate standard deviation by taking the square root of the variance:
Supertech:
= 0.2586 = 25.86%
Slowpoke:
= 0.1150 = 11.50%
Algebraically, the formula for variance can be expressed as
Var(R)  Expected value of 
where 
is the security’s expected return and R is the actual return.
R
R  R 2
0.013225
0.066875
0.000025  0.021025  0.030625  0.001225
4
 0.013225
244
Part III
Risk
I TABLE 10.1 Calculating Variance and Standard Deviation
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
State of
Rate of
Deviation from
Squared Value
Economy
Return
Expected Return
of Deviation
Supertech*
(Expected return  0.175)
RAt
Depression
0.20
0.375
0.140625
( 0.20  0.175)
[  (0.375)2]
Recession
0.10
0.075
0.005625
Normal
0.30
0.125
0.015625
Boom
0.50
0.325
0.105625
___________
0.267500
Slowpoke†
(Expected return  0.055)
RBt
Depression
0.05
0.005
0.000025
( 0.05  0.055)
[  (0.005)2]
Recession
0.20
0.145
0.021025
Normal
0.12
0.175
0.030625
Boom
0.09
0.035
0.001225
___________
0.052900
*
SD(RA)  A 
 0.2586  25.86%
† 
SD(RB)  B 
 0.1150  11.50%
0.013225
VarRB  2
B  0.0529
4
 0.013225
RB  0.05  0.20  0.12  0.09
4
 0.055  5.5%
0.066875
VarRA  2
A  0.2675
4
 0.066875
RA  0.20  0.10  0.30  0.50
4
 0.175  17.5%
RBt  RB 2
RBt  RB
RAt  RA 2
RAt  RA

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
251
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
A look at the four-step calculation for variance makes it clear why it is a measure of
the spread of the sample of returns. For each observation, one squares the difference be-
tween the actual return and the expected return. One then takes an average of these squared
differences. Squaring the differences makes them all positive. If we used the differences be-
tween each return and the expected return and then averaged these differences, we would
get zero because the returns that were above the mean would cancel the ones below.
However, because the variance is still expressed in squared terms, it is difficult to in-
terpret. Standard deviation has a much simpler interpretation, which was provided in
Section 9.5. Standard deviation is simply the square root of the variance. The general for-
mula for the standard deviation is
SD(R) 
Covariance and Correlation
Variance and standard deviation measure the variability of individual stocks. We now wish
to measure the relationship between the return on one stock and the return on another. En-
ter covariance and correlation.
Covariance and correlation measure how two random variables are related. We ex-
plain these terms by extending the Supertech and Slowpoke example presented earlier in
this chapter.
EXAMPLE
We have already determined the expected returns and standard deviations for both
Supertech and Slowpoke. (The expected returns are 0.175 and 0.055 for Supertech
and Slowpoke, respectively. The standard deviations are 0.2586 and 0.1150, re-
spectively.) In addition, we calculated the deviation of each possible return from
the expected return for each firm. Using these data, covariance can be calculated
in two steps. An extra step is needed to calculate correlation.
1. For each state of the economy, multiply Supertech’s deviation from its expected
return and Slowpoke’s deviation from its expected return together. For exam-
ple, Supertech’s rate of return in a depression is 0.20, which is 0.375
(0.20  0.175) from its expected return. Slowpoke’s rate of return in a de-
pression is 0.05, which is 0.005 (0.05  0.055) from its expected return. Mul-
tiplying the two deviations together yields 0.001875 [(0.375)  (0.005)].
The actual calculations are given in the last column of Table 10.2.This proce-
dure can be written algebraically as
(10.1)
where RAt and RBt are the returns on Supertech and Slowpoke in state t.
and
are the expected returns on the two securities.
2. Calculate the average value of the four states in the last column. This average
is the covariance. That is,2
AB  CovRA, RB  0.0195
4
 0.004875
RB
RA
RAt  RA  RBt  RB
VarR
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
245
2As with variance, we divided by N (4 in this example) because the four states give rise to four possible
outcomes. However, had we used past data, the correct divisor would be N  1 (3 in this example).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
252
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Note that we represent the covariance between Supertech and Slowpoke as either
Cov(RA, RB) or AB. Equation (10.1) illustrates the intuition of covariance. Suppose
Supertech’s return is generally above its average when Slowpoke’s return is above its aver-
age, and Supertech’s return is generally below its average when Slowpoke’s return is below
its average. This is indicative of a positive dependency or a positive relationship between
the two returns. Note that the term in equation (10.1) will be positive in any state where both
returns are above their averages. In addition, (10.1) will still be positive in any state where
both terms are below their averages. Thus, a positive relationship between the two returns
will give rise to a positive value for covariance.
Conversely, suppose Supertech’s return is generally above its average when
Slowpoke’s return is below its average, and Supertech’s return is generally below its aver-
age when Slowpoke’s return is above its average. This is indicative of a negative depen-
dency or a negative relationship between the two returns. Note that the term in equation
(10.1) will be negative in any state where one return is above its average and the other re-
turn is below its average. Thus, a negative relationship between the two returns will give
rise to a negative value for covariance.
Finally, suppose there is no relation between the two returns. In this case, knowing
whether the return on Supertech is above or below its expected return tells us nothing about
the return on Slowpoke. In the covariance formula, then, there will be no tendency for the
deviations to be positive or negative together. On average, they will tend to offset each other
and cancel out, making the covariance zero.
Of course, even if the two returns are unrelated to each other, the covariance formula
will not equal zero exactly in any actual history. This is due to sampling error; randomness
alone will make the calculation positive or negative. But for a historical sample that is long
enough, if the two returns are not related to each other, we should expect the covariance to
come close to zero.
246
Part III
Risk
I TABLE 10.2 Calculating Covariance and Correlation
Deviation
Deviation
State
Rate of
from
Rate of
from
of
Return of
Expected
Return of
Expected
Product of
Economy
Supertech
Return
Slowpoke
Return
Deviations
RAt
RBt
(Expected return
(Expected return
 0.175)
 0.055)
Depression
0.20
0.375
0.05
0.005
0.001875
( 0.20  0.175)
( 0.05  0.055)
( 0.375  0.005)
Recession
0.10
0.075
0.20
0.145
0.010875
( 0.075  0.145)
Normal
0.30
0.125
0.12
0.175
0.021875
( 0.125  0.175)
Boom
0.50
0.325
0.09
0.035
0.011375
( 0.325  0.035) 
____
____
________________
0.70
0.22
0.0195
AB  CorrRA, RB 
CovRA, RB
SDRA  SDRB 
0.004875
0.2586  0.1150  0.1639
AB  CovRA, RB  0.0195
4
 0.004875
RAt  RA  RBt  RB
RBt  RB
RAt  RA

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
253
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The covariance formula seems to capture what we are looking for. If the two returns
are positively related to each other, they will have a positive covariance, and if they are neg-
atively related to each other, the covariance will be negative. Last, and very important, if
they are unrelated, the covariance should be zero.
The formula for covariance can be written algebraically as
where 
and 
are the expected returns for the two securities, and RA and RB are the actual
returns. The ordering of the two variables is unimportant. That is, the covariance of A with
B is equal to the covariance of B with A. This can be stated more formally as Cov(RA, RB) 
Cov(RB, RA) or AB  BA.
The covariance we calculated is 0.004875. A negative number like this implies that
the return on one stock is likely to be above its average when the return on the other stock
is below its average, and vice versa. However, the size of the number is difficult to inter-
pret. Like the variance figure, the covariance is in squared deviation units. Until we can put
it in perspective, we don’t know what to make of it.
We solve the problem by computing the correlation:
3. To calculate the correlation, divide the covariance by the standard deviations of both
of the two securities. For our example, we have:
(10.2)
where A and B are the standard deviations of Supertech and Slowpoke, respectively. Note
that we represent the correlation between Supertech and Slowpoke either as Corr(RA, RB) or
AB. As with covariance, the ordering of the two variables is unimportant. That is, the corre-
lation of A with B is equal to the correlation of B with A. More formally, Corr(RA, RB) 
Corr(RB, RA) or AB  BA.
Because the standard deviation is always positive, the sign of the correlation between
two variables must be the same as that of the covariance between the two variables. If the
correlation is positive, we say that the variables are positively correlated; if it is negative,
we say that they are negatively correlated; and if it is zero, we say that they are uncorre-
lated. Furthermore, it can be proved that the correlation is always between 1 and 1. This
is due to the standardizing procedure of dividing by the two standard deviations.
We can compare the correlation between different pairs of securities. For example, it
turns out that the correlation between General Motors and Ford is much higher than the cor-
relation between General Motors and IBM. Hence, we can state that the first pair of secu-
rities is more interrelated than the second pair.
Figure 10.1 shows the three benchmark cases for two assets, A and B. The figure shows
two assets with return correlations of 1, 1, and 0. This implies perfect positive correla-
tion, perfect negative correlation, and no correlation, respectively. The graphs in the figure
plot the separate returns on the two securities through time.
10.3 THE RETURN AND RISK FOR PORTFOLIOS
Suppose that an investor has estimates of the expected returns and standard deviations on
individual securities and the correlations between securities. How then does the investor
choose the best combination or portfolio of securities to hold? Obviously, the investor
would like a portfolio with a high expected return and a low standard deviation of return. It
is therefore worthwhile to consider:
AB  CorrRA, RB  CovRA, RB
A  B

0.004875
0.2586  0.1150  0.1639
RB
RA
AB  CovRA, RB  Expected value of RA  RA  RB  RB
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
247

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
254
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
1. The relationship between the expected return on individual securities and the expected
return on a portfolio made up of these securities.
2. The relationship between the standard deviations of individual securities, the correla-
tions between these securities, and the standard deviation of a portfolio made up of these
securities.
The Example of Supertech and Slowpoke
In order to analyze the above two relationships, we will use the same example of Supertech
and Slowpoke that was presented previously. The relevant calculations are as follows.
The Expected Return on a Portfolio
The formula for expected return on a portfolio is very simple:
The expected return on a portfolio is simply a weighted average of the expected returns on
the individual securities.
248
Part III
Risk


0
Returns
Returns
Returns
Time
Time
Time


0
A
B


0
Both the return on security A and the return on
security B are higher than average at the same
time. Both the return on security A and the
return on security B are lower than average at
the same time.
Security A has a higher-than-average return
when security B has a lower-than-average
return, and vice versa.
A
B
The return on security A is completely
unrelated to the return on security B.
Perfect positive correlation
Corr(RA, RB) = 1
Perfect negative correlation
Corr(RA, RB) = –1
Zero correlation
Corr(RA, RB) = 0
A
B
I FIGURE 10.1 Examples of Different Correlation Coefficients—the
Graphs in the Figure Plot the Separate Returns on the
Two Securities through Time

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
255
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
Consider Supertech and Slowpoke. From the preceding box, we find that the ex-
pected returns on these two securities are 17.5 percent and 5.5 percent, respectively.
The expected return on a portfolio of these two securities alone can be written as
where XSuper is the percentage of the portfolio in Supertech and XSlow is the per-
centage of the portfolio in Slowpoke. If the investor with $100 invests $60 in Su-
pertech and $40 in Slowpoke, the expected return on the portfolio can be written as
Expected return on portfolio  0.6  17.5%  0.4  5.5%  12.7%
Algebraically, we can write
(10.3)
where XA and XB are the proportions of the total portfolio in the assets A and B, re-
spectively. (Because our investor can only invest in two securities, XA  XB must
equal 1 or 100 percent.) 
and 
are the expected returns on the two securities.
Now consider two stocks, each with an expected return of 10 percent. The expected re-
turn on a portfolio composed of these two stocks must be 10 percent, regardless of the pro-
portions of the two stocks held. This result may seem obvious at this point, but it will be-
come important later. The result implies that you do not reduce or dissipate your expected
return by investing in a number of securities. Rather, the expected return on your portfolio is
simply a weighted average of the expected returns on the individual assets in the portfolio.
Variance and Standard Deviation of a Portfolio
The Variance
The formula for the variance of a portfolio composed of two securities, A
and B, is
The Variance of the Portfolio:
Varportfolio  X2
A 2
A  2XAXBA, B  X2
B 2
B
RB
RA
Expected return on portfolio  XARA  XBRB  RP
Expected return on portfolio  XSuper17.5%  XSlow5.5%  RP
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
249
RELEVANT DATA FROM EXAMPLE OF
SUPERTECH AND SLOWPOKE
Item
Symbol
Value
Expected return on Supertech
0.175  17.5%
Expected return on Slowpoke
0.055  5.5%
Variance of Supertech
2
Super
0.066875
Variance of Slowpoke
2
Slow
0.013225
Standard deviation of Supertech
Super
0.2586  25.86%
Standard deviation of Slowpoke
Slow
0.1150  11.50%
Covariance between Supertech and Slowpoke
Super, Slow
0.004875
Correlation between Supertech and Slowpoke
Super, Slow
0.1639
RSlow
RSuper

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
256
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Note that there are three terms on the right-hand side of the equation. The first term involves
the variance of 
, the second term involves the covariance between the two securities
(A,B), and the third term involves the variance of 
. (As stated earlier in this chapter,
A,B  B,A. That is, the ordering of the variables is not relevant when expressing the co-
variance between two securities.)
The formula indicates an important point. The variance of a portfolio depends on both
the variances of the individual securities and the covariance between the two securities. The
variance of a security measures the variability of an individual security’s return. Covariance
measures the relationship between the two securities. For given variances of the individual
securities, a positive relationship or covariance between the two securities increases the
variance of the entire portfolio. A negative relationship or covariance between the two se-
curities decreases the variance of the entire portfolio. This important result seems to square
with common sense. If one of your securities tends to go up when the other goes down, or
vice versa, your two securities are offsetting each other. You are achieving what we call a
hedge in finance, and the risk of your entire portfolio will be low. However, if both your se-
curities rise and fall together, you are not hedging at all. Hence, the risk of your entire port-
folio will be higher.
The variance formula for our two securities, Super and Slow, is
(10.4)
Given our earlier assumption that an individual with $100 invests $60 in Supertech
and $40 in Slowpoke, XSuper  0.6 and XSlow  0.4. Using this assumption and the rele-
vant data from the box above, the variance of the portfolio is
0.023851  0.36  0.066875  2  [0.6  0.4  (0.004875)] 
 0.16  0.013225
(10.4′)
The Matrix Approach
Alternatively, equation (10.4) can be expressed in the following
matrix format:
Supertech
Slowpoke
Supertech
XSuperXSlowSuper, Slow
0.024075  0.36  0.066875
0.00117  0.6  0.4  (0.004875)
Slowpoke
XSuperXSlowSuper, Slow
0.00117  0.6  0.4  (0.004875)
0.002116  0.16  0.013225
There are four boxes in the matrix. We can add the terms in the boxes to obtain equa-
tion (10.4), the variance of a portfolio composed of the two securities. The term in the up-
per left-hand corner involves the variance of Supertech. The term in the lower right-hand
corner involves the variance of Slowpoke. The other two boxes contain the term involving
the covariance. These two boxes are identical, indicating why the covariance term is multi-
plied by 2 in equation (10.4).
At this point, students often find the box approach to be more confusing than equation
(10.4). However, the box approach is easily generalized to more than two securities, a task
we perform later in this chapter.
Standard Deviation of a Portfolio
Given (10.4′), we can now determine the standard de-
viation of the portfolio’s return. This is
P  SD(portfolio) 
(10.5)
 0.1544  15.44%
Varportfolio   0.023851
X 2
Slow  2
Slow
X 2
Super  2
Super
Varportfolio  X 2
Super  2
Super  2XSuperXSlowSuper, Slow  X 2
Slow  2
Slow
B2
B
A2
A
250
Part III
Risk

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
257
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The interpretation of the standard deviation of the portfolio is the same as the interpretation
of the standard deviation of an individual security. The expected return on our portfolio is
12.7 percent. A return of 2.74 percent (12.7%  15.44%) is one standard deviation be-
low the mean and a return of 28.14 percent (12.7%  15.44%) is one standard deviation
above the mean. If the return on the portfolio is normally distributed, a return between
2.74 percent and 28.14 percent occurs about 68 percent of the time.3
The Diversification Effect
It is instructive to compare the standard deviation of the port-
folio with the standard deviation of the individual securities. The weighted average of the
standard deviations of the individual securities is
Weighted average of standard deviations  XSuperSuper  XSlowSlow
(10.6)
0.2012  0.6  0.2586  0.4  0.115
One of the most important results in this chapter concerns the difference between equa-
tions (10.5) and (10.6). In our example, the standard deviation of the portfolio is less than
a weighted average of the standard deviations of the individual securities.
We pointed out earlier that the expected return on the portfolio is a weighted average
of the expected returns on the individual securities. Thus, we get a different type of result
for the standard deviation of a portfolio than we do for the expected return on a portfolio.
It is generally argued that our result for the standard deviation of a portfolio is due to di-
versification. For example, Supertech and Slowpoke are slightly negatively correlated ( 
0.1639). Supertech’s return is likely to be a little below average if Slowpoke’s return is
above average. Similarly, Supertech’s return is likely to be a little above average if Slowpoke’s
return is below average. Thus, the standard deviation of a portfolio composed of the two se-
curities is less than a weighted average of the standard deviations of the two securities.
The above example has negative correlation. Clearly, there will be less benefit from di-
versification if the two securities exhibit positive correlation. How high must the positive
correlation be before all diversification benefits vanish?
To answer this question, let us rewrite (10.4) in terms of correlation rather than co-
variance. The covariance can be rewritten as4
Super, Slow  Super, SlowSuperSlow
(10.7)
The formula states that the covariance between any two securities is simply the correlation
between the two securities multiplied by the standard deviations of each. In other words,
covariance incorporates both (1) the correlation between the two assets and (2) the vari-
ability of each of the two securities as measured by standard deviation.
From our calculations earlier in this chapter we know that the correlation between the
two securities is 0.1639. Given the variances used in equation (10.4′), the standard devi-
ations are 0.2586 and 0.115 for Supertech and Slowpoke, respectively. Thus, the variance
of a portfolio can be expressed as
Variance of the portfolio’s return
(10.8)
0.023851  0.36  0.066875  2  0.6  0.4  (0.1639) 
 0.2586  0.115  0.16  0.013225
 X 2
Super  2
Super  2XSuperXSlowSuper, SlowSuperSlow  X 2
Slow  2
Slow
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
251
3There are only four equally probable returns for Supertech and Slowpoke, so neither security possesses a
normal distribution. Thus, probabilities would be slightly different in our example.
4As with covariance, the ordering of the two securities is not relevant when expressing the correlation between
the two securities. That is, Super,Slow  Slow,Super.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
258
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The middle term on the right-hand side is now written in terms of correlation, , not co-
variance.
Suppose Super, Slow  1, the highest possible value for correlation. Assume all the other
parameters in the example are the same. The variance of the portfolio is
Variance of the
 0.040466  0.36  0.066875  2  (0.6  0.4  1  0.2586 
portfolio’s return 
 0.115)  0.16  0.013225
The standard deviation is 
Standard variation of portfolio’s return 
 0.2012  20.12% (10.9)
Note that equations (10.9) and (10.6) are equal. That is, the standard deviation of a port-
folio’s return is equal to the weighted average of the standard deviations of the individual
returns when   1. Inspection of (10.8) indicates that the variance and hence the standard
deviation of the portfolio must fall as the correlation drops below 1. This leads to:
As long as  
 1, the standard deviation of a portfolio of two securities is less than the
weighted average of the standard deviations of the individual securities.
In other words, the diversification effect applies as long as there is less than perfect cor-
relation (as long as  
 1). Thus, our Supertech-Slowpoke example is a case of overkill. We
illustrated diversification by an example with negative correlation. We could have illus-
trated diversification by an example with positive correlation—as long as it was not perfect
positive correlation.
An Extension to Many Assets
The preceding insight can be extended to the case of many
assets. That is, as long as correlations between pairs of securities are less than 1, the stan-
dard deviation of a portfolio of many assets is less than the weighted average of the stan-
dard deviations of the individual securities.
Now consider Table 10.3, which shows the standard deviation of the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and the standard deviations of some of the individual securities listed in
the index over a recent 10-year period. Note that all of the individual securities in the table
have higher standard deviations than that of the index. In general, the standard deviations
of most of the individual securities in an index will be above the standard deviation of the
index itself, though a few of the securities could have lower standard deviations than that
of the index.
• What are the formulas for the expected return, variance, and standard deviation of a port-
folio of two assets?
• What is the diversification effect?
• What are the highest and lowest possible values for the correlation coefficient?
10.4 THE EFFICIENT SET FOR TWO ASSETS
Our results on expected returns and standard deviations are graphed in Figure 10.2. In the
figure, there is a dot labeled Slowpoke and a dot labeled Supertech. Each dot represents
both the expected return and the standard deviation for an individual security. As can be
seen, Supertech has both a higher expected return and a higher standard deviation.
0.040466
252
Part III
Risk
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
259
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The box or “□” in the graph represents a portfolio with 60 percent invested in
Supertech and 40 percent invested in Slowpoke. You will recall that we have previously cal-
culated both the expected return and the standard deviation for this portfolio.
The choice of 60 percent in Supertech and 40 percent in Slowpoke is just one of an in-
finite number of portfolios that can be created. The set of portfolios is sketched by the
curved line in Figure 10.3.
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
253
I TABLE 10.3 Standard Deviations for Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and for Selected Stocks in the Index
Standard
Asset
Deviation
S&P 500 Index
13.33%
Bell Atlantic
28.60
Ford Motor Co.
31.39
Walt Disney Co.
41.05
General Electric
29.54
IBM
32.18
McDonald’s Corp.
32.38
Sears, Roebuck & Co.
29.76
Toys “R” Us Inc.
32.23
Amazon.com
59.21
As long as the correlations between pairs of securities are less than 1, the standard deviation of an index is less
than the weighted average of the standard deviations of the individual securities within the index.
Expected return (%)
17.5
12.7
5.5
11.50
15.44
25.86
Standard
deviation (%)
Supertech
Slowpoke
I FIGURE 10.2 Expected Returns and Standard Deviations for
Supertech, Slowpoke, and a Portfolio Composed of 
60 Percent in Supertech and 40 Percent in Slowpoke

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
260
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Consider portfolio 1. This is a portfolio composed of 90 percent Slowpoke and 10 per-
cent Supertech. Because it is weighted so heavily toward Slowpoke, it appears close to the
Slowpoke point on the graph. Portfolio 2 is higher on the curve because it is composed of
50 percent Slowpoke and 50 percent Supertech. Portfolio 3 is close to the Supertech point
on the graph because it is composed of 90 percent Supertech and 10 percent Slowpoke.
There are a few important points concerning this graph.
1. We argued that the diversification effect occurs whenever the correlation between
the two securities is below 1. The correlation between Supertech and Slowpoke is 0.1639.
The diversification effect can be illustrated by comparison with the straight line between the
Supertech point and the Slowpoke point. The straight line represents points that would have
been generated had the correlation coefficient between the two securities been 1. The diver-
sification effect is illustrated in the figure since the curved line is always to the left of the
straight line. Consider point 1′. This represents a portfolio composed of 90 percent in
Slowpoke and 10 percent in Supertech if the correlation between the two were exactly 1. We
argue that there is no diversification effect if   1. However, the diversification effect applies
to the curved line, because point 1 has the same expected return as point 1′ but has a lower
standard deviation. (Points 2′ and 3′ are omitted to reduce the clutter of  Figure 10.3.)
Though the straight line and the curved line are both represented in Figure 10.3, they
do not simultaneously exist in the same world. Either   0.1639 and the curve exists or
  1 and the straight line exists. In other words, though an investor can choose between
different points on the curve if   0.1639, she cannot choose between points on the curve
and points on the straight line.
254
Part III
Risk
Expected return
on portfolio (%)
Standard
deviation
of portfolio’s
return (%)
XSupertech = 60%
XSlowpoke = 40%
Supertech
Slowpoke
11.50
25.86
5.5
17.5
2
3
1
1′
MV
I FIGURE 10.3 Set of Portfolios Composed of Holdings in Supertech
and Slowpoke (correlation between the two securities
is 0.1639)
Portfolio 1 is composed of 90 percent Slowpoke and 10 percent Supertech (  0.1639).
Portfolio 2 is composed of 50 percent Slowpoke and 50 percent Supertech (  0.1639).
Portfolio 3 is composed of 10 percent Slowpoke and 90 percent Supertech (  0.1639).
Portfolio 1' is composed of 90 percent Slowpoke and 10 percent Supertech (  1).
Point MV denotes the mimimum variance portfolio. This is the portfolio with the lowest possible variance. 
By definition, the same portfolio must also have the lowest possible standard deviation.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
261
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
2. The point MV represents the minimum variance portfolio. This is the portfolio with
the lowest possible variance. By definition, this portfolio must also have the lowest possi-
ble standard deviation. (The term minimum variance portfolio is standard in the literature,
and we will use that term. Perhaps minimum standard deviation would actually be better,
because standard deviation, not variance, is measured on the horizontal axis of Figure 10.3.)
3. An individual contemplating an investment in a portfolio of Slowpoke and
Supertech faces an opportunity set or feasible set represented by the curved line in Figure
10.3. That is, he can achieve any point on the curve by selecting the appropriate mix be-
tween the two securities. He cannot achieve any point above the curve because he cannot
increase the return on the individual securities, decrease the standard deviations of the se-
curities, or decrease the correlation between the two securities. Neither can he achieve
points below the curve because he cannot lower the returns on the individual securities, in-
crease the standard deviations of the securities, or increase the correlation. (Of course, he
would not want to achieve points below the curve, even if he were able to do so.)
Were he relatively tolerant of risk, he might choose portfolio 3. (In fact, he could even
choose the end point by investing all his money in Supertech.) An investor with less toler-
ance for risk might choose portfolio 2. An investor wanting as little risk as possible would
choose MV, the portfolio with minimum variance or minimum standard deviation.
4. Note that the curve is backward bending between the Slowpoke point and MV. This
indicates that, for a portion of the feasible set, standard deviation actually decreases as one
increases expected return. Students frequently ask, “How can an increase in the proportion
of the risky security, Supertech, lead to a reduction in the risk of the portfolio?”
This surprising finding is due to the diversification effect. The returns on the two se-
curities are negatively correlated with each other. One security tends to go up when the
other goes down and vice versa. Thus, an addition of a small amount of Supertech acts as a
hedge to a portfolio composed only of Slowpoke. The risk of the portfolio is reduced, im-
plying backward bending. Actually, backward bending always occurs if   0. It may or
may not occur when   0. Of course, the curve bends backward only for a portion of its
length. As one continues to increase the percentage of Supertech in the portfolio, the high
standard deviation of this security eventually causes the standard deviation of the entire
portfolio to rise.
5. No investor would want to hold a portfolio with an expected return below that of the
minimum variance portfolio. For example, no investor would choose portfolio 1. This port-
folio has less expected return but more standard deviation than the minimum variance port-
folio has. We say that portfolios such as portfolio 1 are dominated by the minimum vari-
ance portfolio. Though the entire curve from Slowpoke to Supertech is called the feasible
set, investors only consider the curve from MV to Supertech. Hence, the curve from MV to
Supertech is called the efficient set or the efficient frontier.
Figure 10.3 represents the opportunity set where   0.1639. It is worthwhile to ex-
amine Figure 10.4, which shows different curves for different correlations. As can be seen,
the lower the correlation, the more bend there is in the curve. This indicates that the diver-
sification effect rises as  declines. The greatest bend occurs in the limiting case where  
1. This is perfect negative correlation. While this extreme case where   1 seems to
fascinate students, it has little practical importance. Most pairs of securities exhibit positive
correlation. Strong negative correlation, let alone perfect negative correlation, are unlikely
occurrences indeed.5
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
255
5A major exception occurs with derivative securities. For example, the correlation between a stock and a put on
the stock is generally strongly negative. Puts will be treated later in the text.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
262
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Note that there is only one correlation between a pair of securities. We stated earlier that
the correlation between Slowpoke and Supertech is 0.1639. Thus, the curve in Figure 10.4
representing this correlation is the correct one, and the other curves should be viewed as
merely hypothetical.
The graphs we examined are not mere intellectual curiosities. Rather, efficient sets can
easily be calculated in the real world. As mentioned earlier, data on returns, standard devi-
ations, and correlations are generally taken from past observations, though subjective no-
tions can be used to determine the values of these parameters as well. Once the parameters
have been determined, any one of a whole host of software packages can be purchased to
generate an efficient set. However, the choice of the preferred portfolio within the efficient
set is up to you. As with other important decisions like what job to choose, what house or
car to buy, and how much time to allocate to this course, there is no computer program to
choose the preferred portfolio.
An efficient set can be generated where the two individual assets are portfolios them-
selves. For example, the two assets in Figure 10.5 are a diversified portfolio of American
stocks and a diversified portfolio of foreign stocks. Expected returns, standard deviations,
and the correlation coefficient were calculated over the recent past. No subjectivity entered
the analysis. The U.S. stock portfolio with a standard deviation of about 0.173 is less risky
than the foreign stock portfolio, which has a standard deviation of about 0.222. However,
combining a small percentage of the foreign stock portfolio with the U.S. portfolio actually
reduces risk, as can be seen by the backward-bending nature of the curve. In other words,
the diversification benefits from combining two different portfolios more than offset the in-
troduction of a riskier set of stocks into one’s holdings. The minimum variance portfolio
occurs with about 80 percent of one’s funds in American stocks and about 20 percent in for-
eign stocks. Addition of foreign securities beyond this point increases the risk of one’s en-
tire portfolio.
256
Part III
Risk
Expected return
on portfolio
Standard
deviation
of portfolio’s
return
 = – 1
 = – 0.1639
 = 0
 = 0.5
 = 1
I FIGURE 10.4 Opportunity Sets Composed of Holdings in Supertech
and Slowpoke
Each curve represents a different correlation. The lower the correlation, the more
bend in the curve.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
263
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The backward-bending curve in Figure 10.5 is important information that has not by-
passed American money managers. In recent years, pension-fund and mutual-fund man-
agers in the United States have sought out investment opportunities overseas. Another point
worth pondering concerns the potential pitfalls of using only past data to estimate future re-
turns. The stock markets of many foreign countries have had phenomenal growth in the past
25 years. Thus, a graph like Figure 10.5 makes a large investment in these foreign markets
seem attractive. However, because abnormally high returns cannot be sustained forever,
some subjectivity must be used when forecasting future expected returns.
• What is the relationship between the shape of the efficient set for two assets and the cor-
relation between the two assets?
10.5 THE EFFICIENT SET FOR MANY SECURITIES
The previous discussion concerned two securities. We found that a simple curve sketched out
all the possible portfolios. Because investors generally hold more than two securities, we
should look at the same graph when more than two securities are held. The shaded area in Fig-
ure 10.6 represents the opportunity set or feasible set when many securities are considered.
The shaded area represents all the possible combinations of expected return and standard de-
viation for a portfolio. For example, in a universe of 100 securities, point 1 might represent a
portfolio of, say, 40 securities. Point 2 might represent a portfolio of 80 securities. Point 3
might represent a different set of 80 securities, or the same 80 securities held in different pro-
portions, or something else. Obviously, the combinations are virtually endless. However, note
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
257
0.2
0.19
0.18
0.17
0.16
0.15
0.14
0.13
0.12
0.11
0.1
0.09
0.08
0.07
0.06
0.15
0.17
0.19
0.21
0.23
Total return
on portfolio (%)
Risk (standard
deviation of
portfolio’s
return) (%)
Minimum
variance
portfolio
0 % U.S., 100% Foreign
20% U.S., 80% Foreign
80% U.S., 20% Foreign
100% U.S.
90%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
10%
I FIGURE 10.5 Return/Risk Trade-off for World Stocks: Portfolio of
U.S. and Foreign Stocks
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
264
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
that all possible combinations fit into a confined region. No security or combination of secu-
rities can fall outside of the shaded region. That is, no one can choose a portfolio with an ex-
pected return above that given by the shaded region. Furthermore, no one can choose a port-
folio with a standard deviation below that given in the shady area. Perhaps more surprisingly,
no one can choose an expected return below that given in the curve. In other words, the cap-
ital markets actually prevent a self-destructive person from taking on a guaranteed loss.6
So far, Figure 10.6 is different from the earlier graphs. When only two securities are
involved, all the combinations lie on a single curve. Conversely, with many securities the
combinations cover an entire area. However, notice that an individual will want to be some-
where on the upper edge between MV and X. The upper edge, which we indicate in Figure
10.6 by a thick curve, is called the efficient set. Any point below the efficient set would re-
ceive less expected return and the same standard deviation as a point on the efficient set.
For example, consider R on the efficient set and W directly below it. If W contains the risk
you desire, you should choose R instead in order to receive a higher expected return.
In the final analysis, Figure 10.6 is quite similar to Figure 10.3. The efficient set in
Figure 10.3 runs from MV to Supertech. It contains various combinations of the securities
Supertech and Slowpoke. The efficient set in Figure 10.6 runs from MV to X. It contains
various combinations of many securities. The fact that a whole shaded area appears in
Figure 10.6 but not in Figure 10.3 is just not an important difference; no investor would
choose any point below the efficient set in Figure 10.6 anyway.
We mentioned before that an efficient set for two securities can be traced out easily in
the real world. The task becomes more difficult when additional securities are included be-
cause the number of observations grows. For example, using subjective analysis to estimate
expected returns and standard deviations for, say, 100 or 500 securities may very well be-
come overwhelming, and the difficulties with correlations may be greater still. There are al-
most 5,000 correlations between pairs of securities from a universe of 100 securities.
258
Part III
Risk
6Of course, someone dead set on parting with his money can do so. For example, he can trade frequently
without purpose, so that commissions more than offset the positive expected returns on the portfolio.
Expected return
on portfolio
Standard
deviation
of portfolio’s
return
X
R
1
W
2
3
MV
I FIGURE 10.6 The Feasible Set of Portfolios Constructed from Many
Securities

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
265
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Though much of the mathematics of efficient-set computation had been derived in the
1950s,7 the high cost of computer time restricted application of the principles. In recent
years, the cost has been drastically reduced. A number of software packages allow the cal-
culation of an efficient set for portfolios of moderate size. By all accounts these packages
sell quite briskly, so that our discussion above would appear to be important in practice.
Variance and Standard Deviation in a Portfolio of Many Assets
We earlier calculated the formulas for variance and standard deviation in the two-asset case.
Because we considered a portfolio of many assets in Figure 10.6, it is worthwhile to calcu-
late the formulas for variance and standard deviation in the many-asset case. The formula
for the variance of a portfolio of many assets can be viewed as an extension of the formula
for the variance of two assets.
To develop the formula, we employ the same type of matrix that we used in the two-
asset case. This matrix is displayed in Table 10.4. Assuming that there are N assets, we write
the numbers 1 through N on the horizontal axis and 1 through N on the vertical axis. This
creates a matrix of N  N  N2 boxes. The variance of the portfolio is the sum of the terms
in all the boxes.
Consider, for example, the box in the second row and the third column. The term in the
box is X2X3 Cov(R2, R3). X2 and X3 are the percentages of the entire portfolio that are in-
vested in the second asset and the third asset, respectively. For example, if an individual
with a portfolio of $1,000 invests $100 in the second asset, X2  10% ($100/$1,000).
Cov(R3, R2) is the covariance between the returns on the third asset and the returns on the
second asset. Next, note the box in the third row and the second column. The term in this
box is X3X2 Cov(R3, R2). Because Cov(R3, R2)  Cov(R2, R3), both boxes have the same
value. The second security and the third security make up one pair of stocks. In fact, every
pair of stocks appears twice in the table, once in the lower left-hand side and once in the
upper right-hand side.
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
259
7The classic treatise is Harry Markowitz, Portfolio Selection (New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1959). Markowitz
won the Nobel Prize in economics in 1990 for his work on modern portfolio theory.
I TABLE 10.4 Matrix Used to Calculate the Variance of a Portfolio
Stock
1
2
3
. . .
N
1
X1X2Cov(R1,R2)
X1X3Cov(R1,R3)
X1XNCov(R1,RN)
2
X2X1Cov(R2,R1)
X2X3Cov(R2,R3)
X2XNCov(R2,RN)
3
X3X1Cov(R3,R1)
X3X2Cov(R3,R2)
X3XNCov(R3,RN)
.
.
.
N
XNX1Cov(RN,R1)
XNX2Cov(RN,R2)
XNX3Cov(RN,R3)
The variance of the portfolio is the sum of the terms in all the boxes.
i is the standard deviation of stock i.
Cov(Ri, Rj) is the covariance between stock i and stock j.
Terms involving the standard deviation of a single security appear on the diagonal. Terms involving covariance
between two securities appear off the diagonal.
X 2
N  2
N
X 2
3  2
3
X 2
2  2
2
X 2
1  2
1

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
266
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Now consider boxes on the diagonal. For example, the term in the first box on the di-
agonal is 
. Here,
is the variance of the return on the first security.
Thus, the diagonal terms in the matrix contain the variances of the different stocks. The
off-diagonal terms contain the covariances. Table 10.5 relates the numbers of diagonal and
off-diagonal elements to the size of the matrix. The number of diagonal terms (number of
variance terms) is always the same as the number of stocks in the portfolio. The number of
off-diagonal terms (number of covariance terms) rises much faster than the number of di-
agonal terms. For example, a portfolio of 100 stocks has 9,900 covariance terms. Since the
variance of a portfolio’s returns is the sum of all the boxes, we have:
The variance of the return on a portfolio with many securities is more dependent on the co-
variances between the individual securities than on the variances of the individual securities.
• What is the formula for the variance of a portfolio for many assets?
• How can the formula be expressed in terms of a box or matrix?
10.6 DIVERSIFICATION: AN EXAMPLE
The preceding point can be illustrated by altering the matrix in Table 10.4 slightly. Suppose
that we make the following three assumptions:
1. All securities possess the same variance, which we write as 
. In other words,
for every security.
2. All covariances in Table 10.4 are the same. We represent this uniform covariance as 
.
In other words,
for every pair of securities. It can easily be shown that
.
cov
var
CovRi, Rj  cov
cov
2
i  var
var
 2
1
X 2
1  2
1
260
Part III
Risk
I TABLE 10.5 Number of Variance and Covariance Terms as a
Function of the Number of Stocks in the Portfolio
Number of
Number of
Variance
Covariance
Terms
Terms
Number of
Total
(number of
(number of
Stocks in
Number
terms
terms
Portfolio
of Terms
on diagonal)
off diagonal)
1
1
1
0
2
4
2
2
3
9
3
6
10
100
10
90
100
10,000
100
9,900
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
N
N2
N
N2  N
In a large portfolio, the number of terms involving covariance between two securities is much greater than the
number of terms involving variance of a single security.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
267
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
3. All securities are equally weighted in the portfolio. Because there are N assets, the
weight of each asset in the portfolio is 1/N. In other words, Xi  1/N for each security i.
Table 10.6 is the matrix of variances and covariances under these three simplifying
assumptions. Note that all of the diagonal terms are identical. Similarly, all of the off-
diagonal terms are identical. As with Table 10.4, the variance of the portfolio is the sum
of the terms in the boxes in Table 10.6. We know that there are N diagonal terms in-
volving variance. Similarly, there are N  (N  1) off-diagonal terms involving covari-
ance. Summing across all the boxes in Table 10.6 we can express the variances of the
portfolio as
(10.10)
Number of
Each
Number of
Each
diagonal
diagonal
off-diagonal
off-diagonal
terms
term
terms
term
Equation (10.10) expresses the variance of our special portfolio as a weighted sum of the
average security variance and the average covariance.8
 
1
Nvar  1  1
Ncov
 
1
Nvar  
N 2  N
N2 cov
Variance of portfolio     N     
1
N 2var  NN  1   
1
N 2cov
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
261
8Equation (10.10) is actually a weighted average of the variance and covariance terms because the weights, 1/N
and 1  1/N, sum to 1.
I TABLE 10.6 Matrix Used to Calculate the Variance of a Portfolio
When (a) All Securities Possess the Same Variance,
Which We Represent as 
; (b) All Pairs of Securities
Possess the Same Covariance, Which We Represent as
; (c) All Securities Are Held in the Same Proportion,
Which Is 1/N
cov
var
Stock
1
2
3
. . .
N
1
2
3
.
.
.
N
1/N2var
1/N2cov
1/N2cov
1/N2cov
1/N2cov
1/N2var
1/N2cov
1/N2cov
1/N2cov
1/N2cov
1/N2var
1/N2cov
1/N2cov
1/N2cov
1/N2cov
1/N2var

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
268
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Now, let’s increase the number of securities in the portfolio without limit. The variance
of the portfolio becomes
Variance of portfolio (when N →) 
(10.11)
This occurs because (1) the weight on the variance term, 1/N, goes to 0 as N goes to infin-
ity, and (2) the weight on the covariance term, 1  1/N, goes to 1 as N goes to infinity.
Formula (10.11) provides an interesting and important result. In our special portfolio,
the variances of the individual securities completely vanish as the number of securities be-
comes large. However, the covariance terms remain. In fact, the variance of the portfolio
becomes the average covariance,
. One often hears that one should diversify. In other
words, you should not put all your eggs in one basket. The effect of diversification on the
risk of a portfolio can be illustrated in this example. The variances of the individual securi-
ties are diversified away, but the covariance terms cannot be diversified away.
The fact that part, but not all, of one’s risk can be diversified away should be explored.
Consider Mr. Smith, who brings $1,000 to the roulette table at a casino. It would be very
risky if he put all his money on one spin of the wheel. For example, imagine that he put the
full $1,000 on red at the table. If the wheel showed red, he would get $2,000, but if the wheel
showed black, he would lose everything. Suppose, instead, he divided his money over 1,000
different spins by betting $1 at a time on red. Probability theory tells us that he could count
on winning about 50 percent of the time. This means that he could count on pretty nearly
getting all his original $1,000 back.9 In other words, risk is essentially eliminated with
1,000 different spins.
Now, let’s contrast this with our stock market example, which we illustrate in Figure 10.7.
The variance of the portfolio with only one security is, of course,
because the variance of
a portfolio with one security is the variance of the security. The variance of the portfolio drops
as more securities are added, which is evidence of the diversification effect. However, unlike
Mr. Smith’s roulette example, the portfolio’s variance can never drop to zero. Rather it reaches
a floor of 
, which is the covariance of each pair of securities.10
Because the variance of the portfolio asymptotically approaches 
, each additional
security continues to reduce risk. Thus, if there were neither commissions nor other trans-
actions costs, it could be argued that one can never achieve too much diversification.
However, there is a cost to diversification in the real world. Commissions per dollar invested
fall as one makes larger purchases in a single stock. Unfortunately, one must buy fewer
shares of each security when buying more and more different securities. Comparing the
costs and benefits of diversification, Meir Statman argues that a portfolio of about 30 stocks
is needed to achieve optimal diversification.11
We mentioned earlier that 
must be greater than 
. Thus, the variance of a secu-
rity’s return can be broken down in the following way:
Total risk of
Unsystematic or
individual security  Portfolio risk  diversifiable risk
Total risk, which is 
in our example, is the risk that one bears by holding onto one secu-
rity only. Portfolio risk is the risk that one still bears after achieving full diversification,
var
var  cov
cov
var
cov
var
cov
cov
var
cov
cov
262
Part III
Risk
9This example ignores the casino’s cut.
10Though it is harder to show, this risk reduction effect also applies to the general case where variances and
covariances are not equal.
11Meir Statman, “How Many Stocks Make a Diversified Portfolio?” Journal of Financial and Quantitative
Analysis (September 1987).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
269
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
which is 
in our example. Portfolio risk is often called systematic or market risk as
well. Diversifiable, unique, or unsystematic risk is that risk that can be diversified away
in a large portfolio, which must be 
by definition.
To an individual who selects a diversified portfolio, the total risk of an individual se-
curity is not important. When considering adding a security to a diversified portfolio, the
individual cares about only that portion of the risk of a security that cannot be diversified
away. This risk can alternatively be viewed as the contribution of a security to the risk of
an entire portfolio. We will talk later about the case where securities make different contri-
butions to the risk of the entire portfolio.
Risk and the Sensible Investor
Having gone to all this trouble to show that unsystematic risk disappears in a well-diversified
portfolio, how do we know that investors even want such portfolios? Suppose they like risk
and don’t want it to disappear?
We must admit that, theoretically at least, this is possible, but we will argue that it does
not describe what we think of as the typical investor. Our typical investor is risk averse.
Risk-averse behavior can be defined in many ways, but we prefer the following example:
A fair gamble is one with zero expected return; a risk-averse investor would prefer to avoid
fair gambles.
Why do investors choose well-diversified portfolios? Our answer is that they are risk
averse, and risk-averse people avoid unnecessary risk, such as the unsystematic risk on a
stock. If you do not think this is much of an answer, consider whether you would take on
such a risk. For example, suppose you had worked all summer and had saved $5,000, which
var  cov
cov
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
263
Variance
of
portfolio’s
return
Number of
securities
Diversifiable risk,
unique risk, or
unsystematic risk
Portfolio risk,
market risk, or
systematic risk
var
cov
1
2
3
4
I FIGURE 10.7 Relationship between the Variance of a Portfolio’s
Return and the Number of Securities in the Portfolio*
*This graph assumes
a. All securities have constant variance, var.
b. All securities have constant covariance, cov.
c. All securities are equally weighted in portfolio.
The variance of a portfolio drops as more securities are added to the portfolio.
However, it does not drop to zero. Rather,
serves as the floor.
cov

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
270
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
you intended to use for your college expenses. Now, suppose someone came up to you and
offered to flip a coin for the money: heads, you would double your money, and tails, you
would lose it all.
Would you take such a bet? Perhaps you would, but most people would not. Leaving
aside any moral question that might surround gambling and recognizing that some people
would take such a bet, it’s our view that the average investor would not.
To induce the typical risk-averse investor to take a fair gamble, you must sweeten the
pot. For example, you might need to raise the odds of winning from 50–50 to 70–30 or
higher. The risk-averse investor can be induced to take fair gambles only if they are sweet-
ened so that they become unfair to the investor’s advantage.
• What are the two components of the total risk of a security?
• Why doesn’t diversification eliminate all risk?
10.7 RISKLESS BORROWING AND LENDING
Figure 10.6 assumes that all the securities on the efficient set are risky. Alternatively, an in-
vestor could combine a risky investment with an investment in a riskless or risk-free secu-
rity, such as an investment in United States Treasury bills. This is illustrated in the follow-
ing example.
EXAMPLE
Ms. Bagwell is considering investing in the common stock of Merville Enter-
prises. In addition, Ms. Bagwell will either borrow or lend at the risk-free rate. The
relevant parameters are
Common Stock
Risk-Free
of Merville
Asset
Expected return
14%
10%
Standard deviation
0.20
0
Suppose Ms. Bagwell chooses to invest a total of $1,000, $350 of which is to be in-
vested in Merville Enterprises and $650 placed in the risk-free asset. The expected
return on her total investment is simply a weighted average of the two returns:
Expected return on portfolio
composed of one riskless
 0.114  (0.35  0.14)  (0.65  0.10) (10.12)
and one risky asset
Because the expected return on the portfolio is a weighted average of the expected
return on the risky asset (Merville Enterprises) and the risk-free return, the calcu-
lation is analogous to the way we treated two risky assets. In other words, equa-
tion (10.3) applies here.
Using equation (10.4), the formula for the variance of the portfolio can be
written as
X 2
Merville  2
Merville  2XMervilleXRisk-freeMerville, Risk-free  X 2
Risk-free  2
Risk-free
264
Part III
Risk
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
271
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
However, by definition, the risk-free asset has no variability. Thus, both 
Merville, Risk-free and 
are equal to zero, reducing the above expression to
Variance of portfolio composed
of one riskless and one risky asset 
(10.13)
The standard deviation of the portfolio is
Standard deviation of portfolio composed
of one riskless and one risky asset 
(10.14)
XMervilleMerville  0.35  0.20  0.07
The relationship between risk and expected return for one risky and one risk-
less asset can be seen in Figure 10.8. Ms. Bagwell’s split of 35–65 percent between
the two assets is represented on a straight line between the risk-free rate and a pure
investment in Merville Enterprises. Note that, unlike the case of two risky assets,
the opportunity set is straight, not curved.
Suppose that, alternatively, Ms. Bagwell borrows $200 at the risk-free rate.
Combining this with her original sum of $1,000, she invests a total of $1,200 in
Merville. Her expected return would be
Expected return on portfolio
formed by borrowing
 14.8%  1.20  0.14  (0.2  0.10)
to invest in risky asset
Here, she invests 120 percent of her original investment of $1,000 by borrowing
20 percent of her original investment. Note that the return of 14.8 percent is greater
than the 14-percent expected return on Merville Enterprises. This occurs because
she is borrowing at 10 percent to invest in a security with an expected return
greater than 10 percent.
X 2
Merville 2
Merville  0.35 2  0.20 2  0.0049
 2
Risk-free
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
265
Expected return
on portfolio (%)
Standard
deviation
of portfolio’s
return (%)
120% in Merville Enterprises
–20% in risk-free assets
(borrowing at risk-free
rate)
Borrowing to invest in
Merville when the
borrowing rate is greater
than the lending rate
Merville Enterprises
35% in Merville Enterprises
65% in risk-free assets
20
14
10=RF
I FIGURE 10.8 Relationship between Expected Return and Risk for a
Portfolio of One Risky Asset and One Riskless Asset

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
272
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The standard deviation is
Standard deviation of portfolio formed
by borrowing to invest in risky asset
 0.24  1.20  0.2
The standard deviation of 0.24 is greater than 0.20, the standard deviation of the
Merville investment, because borrowing increases the variability of the invest-
ment. This investment also appears in Figure 10.8.
So far, we have assumed that Ms. Bagwell is able to borrow at the same rate
at which she can lend.12 Now let us consider the case where the borrowing rate is
above the lending rate. The dotted line in Figure 10.8 illustrates the opportunity
set for borrowing opportunities in this case. The dotted line is below the solid line
because a higher borrowing rate lowers the expected return on the investment.
The Optimal Portfolio
The previous section concerned a portfolio formed between one riskless asset and one risky
asset. In reality, an investor is likely to combine an investment in the riskless asset with a
portfolio of risky assets. This is illustrated in Figure 10.9.
Consider point Q, representing a portfolio of securities. Point Q is in the interior of the
feasible set of risky securities. Let us assume the point represents a portfolio of 30 percent
in AT&T, 45 percent in General Motors (GM), and 25 percent in IBM. Individuals com-
266
Part III
Risk
12Surprisingly, this appears to be a decent approximation because a large number of investors are able to borrow
from a stockbroker (called going on margin) when purchasing stocks. The borrowing rate here is very near the
riskless rate of interest, particularly for large investors. More will be said about this in a later chapter.
Risk-free
rate ( RF )
Line (capital market line)
–40% in risk-free asset
140% in stocks
          represented by Q
35% in risk-free asset
65% in stocks
          represented by Q
70% in risk-free asset
30% in stocks
          represented by Q
II
Y
A
X
1
4
5
3
I
Line
Expected return
on portfolio
Standard
deviation
of portfolio’s
return
2
Q
I FIGURE 10.9 Relationship between Expected Return and Standard
Deviation for an Investment in a Combination of Risky
Securities and the Riskless Asset
Portfolio Q is composed of 30 percent AT&T, 45 percent GM, 25 percent IBM.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
273
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
bining investments in Q with investments in the riskless asset would achieve points along
the straight line from RF to Q. We refer to this as line I. For example, point 1 on the line rep-
resents a portfolio of 70 percent in the riskless asset and 30 percent in stocks represented
by Q. An investor with $100 choosing point 1 as his portfolio would put $70 in the risk-free
asset and $30 in Q. This can be restated as $70 in the riskless asset, $9 (0.3  $30) in AT&T,
$13.50 (0.45  $30) in GM, and $7.50 (0.25  $30) in IBM. Point 2 also represents a port-
folio of the risk-free asset and Q, with more (65%) being invested in Q.
Point 3 is obtained by borrowing to invest in Q. For example, an investor with $100 of his
own would borrow $40 from the bank or broker in order to invest $140 in Q. This can be stated
as borrowing $40 and contributing $100 of one’s money in order to invest $42 (0.3  $140) in
AT&T, $63 (0.45  $140) in GM, and $35 (0.25  $140) in IBM.
The above investments can be summarized as:
Point 1
Point 3
Point Q
(lending $70)
(borrowing $40)
AT&T
$ 30
$
9
$ 42
GM
45
13.50
63
IBM
25
7.50
35
Risk-free
0
70.00
40
____
_______
____
Total investment
$100
$100
$100
Though any investor can obtain any point on line I, no point on the line is optimal. To
see this, consider line II, a line running from RF through A. Point A represents a portfolio
of risky securities. Line II represents portfolios formed by combinations of the risk-free as-
set and the securities in A. Points between RF and A are portfolios in which some money is
invested in the riskless asset and the rest is placed in A. Points past A are achieved by bor-
rowing at the riskless rate to buy more of A than one could with one’s original funds alone.
As drawn, line II is tangent to the efficient set of risky securities. Whatever point an in-
dividual can obtain on line I, he can obtain a point with the same standard deviation and a
higher expected return on line II. In fact, because line II is tangent to the efficient set of risky
assets, it provides the investor with the best possible opportunities. In other words, line II can
be viewed as the efficient set of all assets, both risky and riskless. An investor with a fair de-
gree of risk aversion might choose a point between RF and A, perhaps point 4. An individual
with less risk aversion might choose a point closer to A or even beyond A. For example, point
5 corresponds to an individual borrowing money to increase his investment in A.
The graph illustrates an important point. With riskless borrowing and lending, the port-
folio of risky assets held by any investor would always be point A. Regardless of the in-
vestor’s tolerance for risk, he would never choose any other point on the efficient set of risky
assets (represented by curve XAY) nor any point in the interior of the feasible region. Rather,
he would combine the securities of A with the riskless assets if he had high aversion to risk.
He would borrow the riskless asset to invest more funds in A had he low aversion to risk.
This result establishes what financial economists call the separation principle. That
is, the investor’s investment decision consists of two separate steps:
1. After estimating (a) the expected returns and variances of individual securities, and
(b) the covariances between pairs of securities, the investor calculates the efficient set of
risky assets, represented by curve XAY in Figure 10.9. He then determines point A, the tan-
gency between the risk-free rate and the efficient set of risky assets (curve XAY). Point A
represents the portfolio of risky assets that the investor will hold. This point is determined
solely from his estimates of returns, variances, and covariances. No personal characteris-
tics, such as degree of risk aversion, are needed in this step.
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
267

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
274
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
2. The investor must now determine how he will combine point A, his portfolio of
risky assets, with the riskless asset. He might invest some of his funds in the riskless asset
and some in portfolio A. He would end up at a point on the line between RF and A in this
case. Alternatively, he might borrow at the risk-free rate and contribute some of his own
funds as well, investing the sum in portfolio A. He would end up at a point on line II be-
yond A. His position in the riskless asset, that is, his choice of where on the line he wants
to be, is determined by his internal characteristics, such as his ability to tolerate risk.
• What is the formula for the standard deviation of a portfolio composed of one riskless and
one risky asset?
• How does one determine the optimal portfolio among the efficient set of risky assets?
10.8 MARKET EQUILIBRIUM
Definition of the Market-Equilibrium Portfolio
The above analysis concerns one investor. His estimates of the expected returns and vari-
ances for individual securities and the covariances between pairs of securities are his and his
alone. Other investors would obviously have different estimates of the above variables. How-
ever, the estimates might not vary much because all investors would be forming expectations
from the same data on past price movements and other publicly available information.
Financial economists often imagine a world where all investors possess the same estimates
on expected returns, variances, and covariances. Though this can never be literally true, it can
be thought of as a useful simplifying assumption in a world where investors have access to sim-
ilar sources of information. This assumption is called homogeneous expectations.13
If all investors had homogeneous expectations, Figure 10.9 would be the same for all
individuals. That is, all investors would sketch out the same efficient set of risky assets be-
cause they would be working with the same inputs. This efficient set of risky assets is rep-
resented by the curve XAY. Because the same risk-free rate would apply to everyone, all in-
vestors would view point A as the portfolio of risky assets to be held.
This point A takes on great importance because all investors would purchase the risky
securities that it represents. Those investors with a high degree of risk aversion might com-
bine A with an investment in the riskless asset, achieving point 4, for example. Others with
low aversion to risk might borrow to achieve, say, point 5. Because this is a very important
conclusion, we restate it:
In a world with homogeneous expectations, all investors would hold the portfolio of risky
assets represented by point A.
If all investors choose the same portfolio of risky assets, it is possible to determine what
that portfolio is. Common sense tells us that it is a market-value-weighted portfolio of all
existing securities. It is the market portfolio.
In practice, financial economists use a broad-based index such as the Standard &
Poor’s (S&P) 500 as a proxy for the market portfolio. Of course all investors do not hold
the same portfolio in practice. However, we know that a large number of investors hold di-
268
Part III
Risk
13The assumption of homogeneous expectations states that all investors have the same beliefs concerning
returns, variances, and covariances. It does not say that all investors have the same aversion to risk.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
275
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
versified portfolios, particularly when mutual funds or pension funds are included. A broad-
based index is a good proxy for the highly diversified portfolios of many investors.
Definition of Risk When Investors Hold the Market Portfolio
The previous section states that many investors hold diversified portfolios similar to broad-
based indices. This result allows us to be more precise about the risk of a security in the
context of a diversified portfolio.
Researchers have shown that the best measure of the risk of a security in a large port-
folio is the beta of the security. We illustrate beta by an example.
EXAMPLE
Consider the following possible returns on both the stock of Jelco, Inc., and on the
market:
Return on
Return on
Type of
Market
Jelco, Inc.
State
Economy
(percent)
(percent)
I
Bull
15
25
II
Bull
15
15
III
Bear
5
5
IV
Bear
5
15
Though the return on the market has only two possible outcomes (15% and
5%), the return on Jelco has four possible outcomes. It is helpful to consider the
expected return on a security for a given return on the market. Assuming each state
is equally likely, we have
Return on
Expected Return
Type of
Market
on Jelco, Inc.
Economy
(percent)
(percent)
Bull
15%
20%  25%  1⁄2  15%  1⁄2
Bear
5%
10%  5%  1⁄2  (15%)  1⁄2
Jelco, Inc., responds to market movements because its expected return is greater
in bullish states than in bearish states. We now calculate exactly how responsive
the security is to market movements. The market’s return in a bullish economy is
20 percent [15%  (5%)] greater than the market’s return in a bearish economy.
However, the expected return on Jelco in a bullish economy is 30 percent [20% 
(10%)] greater than its expected return in a bearish state. Thus, Jelco, Inc., has
a responsiveness coefficient of 1.5 (30%/20%).
This relationship appears in Figure 10.10. The returns for both Jelco and the
market in each state are plotted as four points. In addition, we plot the expected re-
turn on the security for each of the two possible returns on the market. These two
points, each of which we designate by an X, are joined by a line called the char-
acteristic line of the security. The slope of the line is 1.5, the number calculated in
the previous paragraph. This responsiveness coefficient of 1.5 is the beta of Jelco.
The interpretation of beta from Figure 10.10 is intuitive. The graph tells us that
the returns of Jelco are magnified 1.5 times over those of the market. When the mar-
ket does well, Jelco’s stock is expected to do even better. When the market does
poorly, Jelco’s stock is expected to do even worse. Now imagine an individual with
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
269

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
276
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
a portfolio near that of the market who is considering the addition of Jelco to his
portfolio. Because of Jelco’s magnification factor of 1.5, he will view this stock as
contributing much to the risk of the portfolio. (We will show shortly that the beta
of the average security in the market is 1.) Jelco contributes more to the risk of a
large, diversified portfolio than does an average security because Jelco is more re-
sponsive to movements in the market.
Further insight can be gleaned by examining securities with negative betas. One should
view these securities as either hedges or insurance policies. The security is expected to do
well when the market does poorly and vice versa. Because of this, adding a negative-beta
security to a large, diversified portfolio actually reduces the risk of the portfolio.14
Table 10.7 presents empirical estimates of betas for individual securities. As can be
seen, some securities are more responsive to the market than others. For example, Oracle
has a beta of 1.63. This means that, for every 1 percent movement in the market,15 Oracle
is expected to move 1.63 percent in the same direction. Conversely, Green Mountain Power
has a beta of only 0.26. This means that, for every 1 percent movement in the market, Green
Mountain is expected to move 0.26 percent in the same direction.
We can summarize our discussion of beta by saying:
Beta measures the responsiveness of a security to movements in the market portfolio.
270
Part III
Risk
Return on security (%)
Return on
market (%)
Characteristic line
(15%, 20%)*
Slope =  = 1.5
(–5%, –10%)
20
25
10
–10
–20
–15
–5
5
15
25
I
II
III
IV
X
X
I FIGURE 10.10 Performance of Jelco, Inc., and the Market Portfolio
The two points marked X represent the expected return on Jelco for each possible outcome
of the market portfolio. The expected return on Jelco is positively related to the return on
the market. Because the slope is 1.5, we say that Jelco’s beta is 1.5. Beta measures the
responsiveness of the security’s return to movement in the market.
*(20%, 15%) refers to the point where the return on the security is 20 percent and the
return on the market is 15 percent.
14Unfortunately, empirical evidence shows that virtually no stocks have negative betas.
15In Table 10.7, we use the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index as the proxy for the market portfolio.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
277
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The Formula for Beta
Our discussion so far has stressed the intuition behind beta. The actual definition of beta is
(10.15)
where Cov(Ri, RM) is the covariance between the return on asset i and the return on the mar-
ket portfolio and 2(RM) is the variance of the market.
One useful property is that the average beta across all securities, when weighted by the
proportion of each security’s market value to that of the market portfolio, is 1. That is,
(10.16)
where Xi is the proportion of security i’s market value to that of the entire market and N is
the number of securities in the market.
Equation (10.16) is intuitive, once you think about it. If you weight all securities by
their market values, the resulting portfolio is the market. By definition, the beta of the mar-
ket portfolio is 1. That is, for every 1 percent movement in the market, the market must
move 1 percent—by definition.
A Test
We have put these questions on past corporate finance examinations:
1. What sort of investor rationally views the variance (or standard deviation) of an indi-
vidual security’s return as the security’s proper measure of risk?
2. What sort of investor rationally views the beta of a security as the security’s proper
measure of risk?
A good answer might be something like the following:
A rational, risk-averse investor views the variance (or standard deviation) of her portfolio’s 
return as the proper measure of the risk of her portfolio. If for some reason or another the 

N
i1
 Xii  1
i  CovRi, RM
2RM
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
271
I TABLE 10.7 Estimates of Beta for Selected Individual Stocks
Stock
Beta
High-beta stocks
Oracle, Inc.
1.63
Inprise Corporation
1.58
Citicorp
2.29
Average-beta stocks
Du Pont
1.08
Kimberly-Clark Corp.
0.80
Ford Motor Co.
0.96
Low-beta stocks
Green Mountain Power
0.26
Homestake Mining
0.22
Bell Atlantic
0.37
The beta is defined as Cov(Ri, RM)/ Var(RM), where Cov(Ri, RM) is the covariance of the return on an individual
stock, Ri, and the return on the market, RM. Var(RM) is the variance of the return on the market, RM.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
278
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
investor can hold only one security, the variance of that security’s return becomes the variance
of the portfolio’s return. Hence, the variance of the security’s return is the security’s proper
measure of risk.
If an individual holds a diversified portfolio, she still views the variance (or standard
deviation) of her portfolio’s return as the proper measure of the risk of her portfolio.
However, she is no longer interested in the variance of each individual security’s return.
Rather, she is interested in the contribution of an individual security to the variance of the
portfolio.
Under the assumption of homogeneous expectations, all individuals hold the market
portfolio. Thus, we measure risk as the contribution of an individual security to the variance
of the market portfolio. This contribution, when standardized properly, is the beta of the se-
curity. While very few investors hold the market portfolio exactly, many hold reasonably
diversified portfolios. These portfolios are close enough to the market portfolio so that the
beta of a security is likely to be a reasonable measure of its risk.
• If all investors have homogeneous expectations, what portfolio of risky assets do they
hold?
• What is the formula for beta?
• Why is beta the appropriate measure of risk for a single security in a large portfolio?
10.9 RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN RISK AND EXPECTED RETURN
(CAPM)
It is commonplace to argue that the expected return on an asset should be positively related
to its risk. That is, individuals will hold a risky asset only if its expected return compensates
for its risk. In this section, we first estimate the expected return on the stock market as a
whole. Next, we estimate expected returns on individual securities.
Expected Return on Market
Financial economists frequently argue that the expected return on the market can be repre-
sented as:
In words, the expected return on the market is the sum of the risk-free rate plus some com-
pensation for the risk inherent in the market portfolio. Note that the equation refers to the
expected return on the market, not the actual return in a particular month or year. Because
stocks have risk, the actual return on the market over a particular period can, of course, be
below RF, or can even be negative.
Since investors want compensation for risk, the risk premium is presumably positive.
But exactly how positive is it? It is generally argued that the best estimate for the risk pre-
mium in the future is the average risk premium in the past. As reported in Chapter 9,
Ibbotson and Sinquefield found that the expected return on common stocks was 13.3 per-
cent over 1926–1999. The average risk-free rate over the same time interval was 3.8 per-
cent. Thus, the average difference between the two was 9.5 percent (13.3%  3.8%).
RM  RF  Risk premium
272
Part III
Risk
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
279
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Financial economists find this to be a useful estimate of the difference to occur in the fu-
ture. We will use it frequently in this text.16
For example, if the risk-free rate, generally estimated by the yield on a one-year
Treasury bill, is 4 percent, the expected return on the market is
13.5%  4%  9.5%
Expected Return on Individual Security
Now that we have estimated the expected return on the market as a whole, what is the ex-
pected return on an individual security? We have argued that the beta of a security is the ap-
propriate measure of risk in a large, diversified portfolio. Since most investors are diversi-
fied, the expected return on a security should be positively related to its beta. This is
illustrated in Figure 10.11.
Actually, financial economists can be more precise about the relationship between ex-
pected return and beta. They posit that, under plausible conditions, the relationship between
expected return and beta can be represented by the following equation.17
Capital-Asset-Pricing Model:

RF



(10.17)
Expected
Difference between
return on

Risk-

Beta of

expected return
a security
free rate
the security
on market and
risk-free rate
RM  RF
R
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
273
16This is not the only way to estimate the market-risk premium. In fact, there are several useful ways to estimate
the market-risk premium. For example, refer to Table 9.2 and note the average return on common stocks
(13.3%) and long-term government bonds (5.5%). One could argue that the long-term government bond return
is the best measure of the long-term historical risk-free rate. If so, a good estimate of the historical market risk
premium would be 13.3%  5.5%  8.8%. With this empirical version of the CAPM, one would use the current
long-term government bond return to estimate the current risk-free rate.
17This relationship was first proposed independently by John Lintner and William F. Sharpe.
Expected return
on security (%)
Beta of
security
Security market line (SML)
0
0.8
1
M
T
S
RM
RF
I FIGURE 10.11 Relationship between Expected Return on an
Individual Security and Beta of the Security
The Security Market Line (SML) is the graphical depiction of the capital-asset-pricing model (CAPM).
The expected return on a stock with a beta of 0 is equal to the risk-free rate.
The expected return on a stock with a beta of 1 is equal to the expected return on the market.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
280
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
This formula, which is called the capital-asset-pricing model (or CAPM for short), implies
that the expected return on a security is linearly related to its beta. Since the average return on
the market has been higher than the average risk-free rate over long periods of time,
is presumably positive. Thus, the formula implies that the expected return on a security is pos-
itively related to its beta. The formula can be illustrated by assuming a few special cases:
• Assume that   0. Here 
, that is, the expected return on the security is equal
to the risk-free rate. Because a security with zero beta has no relevant risk, its ex-
pected return should equal the risk-free rate.
• Assume that   1. Equation (10.17) reduces to 
. That is, the expected re-
turn on the security is equal to the expected return on the market. This makes sense
since the beta of the market portfolio is also 1.
Formula (10.17) can be represented graphically by the upward-sloping line in
Figure 10.11. Note that the line begins at RF and rises to 
when beta is 1. This line is
frequently called the security market line (SML).
As with any line, the SML has both a slope and an intercept. RF, the risk-free rate, is
the intercept. Because the beta of a security is the horizontal axis,
is the slope. The
line will be upward-sloping as long as the expected return on the market is greater than the
risk-free rate. Because the market portfolio is a risky asset, theory suggests that its expected
return is above the risk-free rate. In addition, the empirical evidence of the previous chap-
ter showed that the average return per year on the market portfolio over the past 74 years
was 9.5 percent above the risk-free rate.
EXAMPLE
The stock of Aardvark Enterprises has a beta of 1.5 and that of Zebra Enterprises
has a beta of 0.7. The risk-free rate is 7 percent, and the difference between the ex-
pected return on the market and the risk-free rate is 9.5 percent. The expected re-
turns on the two securities are:
Expected Return for Aardvark:
21.25%  7%  1.5  9.5%
(10.18)
Expected Return for Zebra:
13.65%  7%  0.7  9.5%
Three additional points concerning the CAPM should be mentioned:
1. Linearity. The intuition behind an upwardly sloping curve is clear. Because beta is
the appropriate measure of risk, high-beta securities should have an expected return above
that of low-beta securities. However, both Figure 10.11 and equation (10.17) show some-
thing more than an upwardly sloping curve; the relationship between expected return and
beta corresponds to a straight line.
It is easy to show that the line of Figure 10.11 is straight. To see this, consider security
S with, say, a beta of 0.8. This security is represented by a point below the security market
line in the figure. Any investor could duplicate the beta of security S by buying a portfolio
with 20 percent in the risk-free asset and 80 percent in a security with a beta of 1. However,
the homemade portfolio would itself lie on the SML. In other words, the portfolio domi-
nates security S because the portfolio has a higher expected return and the same beta.
Now consider security T with, say, a beta greater than 1. This security is also below the
SML in Figure 10.11. Any investor could duplicate the beta of security T by borrowing to
RM  RF
RM
R  RM
R  RF
RM  RF
274
Part III
Risk

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
281
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
invest in a security with a beta of 1. This portfolio must also lie on the SML, thereby dom-
inating security T.
Because no one would hold either S or T, their stock prices would drop. This price ad-
justment would raise the expected returns on the two securities. The price adjustment would
continue until the two securities lay on the security market line. The preceding example
considered two overpriced stocks and a straight SML. Securities lying above the SML are
underpriced. Their prices must rise until their expected returns lie on the line. If the SML
is itself curved, many stocks would be mispriced. In equilibrium, all securities would be
held only when prices changed so that the SML became straight. In other words, linearity
would be achieved.
2. Portfolios as well as securities. Our discussion of the CAPM considered individ-
ual securities. Does the relationship in Figure 10.11 and equation (10.17) hold for portfo-
lios as well?
Yes. To see this, consider a portfolio formed by investing equally in our two securities,
Aardvark and Zebra. The expected return on the portfolio is
Expected Return on Portfolio:
17.45%  0.5  21.25%  0.5  13.65%
(10.19)
The beta of the portfolio is simply a weighted average of the betas of the two securities.
Thus we have
Beta of Portfolio:
1.1  0.5  1.5  0.5  0.7
Under the CAPM, the expected return on the portfolio is
17.45%  7%  1.1  9.5%
(10.20)
Because the expected return in (10.19) is the same as the expected return in (10.20), the ex-
ample shows that the CAPM holds for portfolios as well as for individual securities.
3. A potential confusion. Students often confuse the SML in Figure 10.11 with line II
in Figure 10.9. Actually, the lines are quite different. Line II traces the efficient set of port-
folios formed from both risky assets and the riskless asset. Each point on the line represents
an entire portfolio. Point A is a portfolio composed entirely of risky assets. Every other
point on the line represents a portfolio of the securities in A combined with the riskless as-
set. The axes on Figure 10.9 are the expected return on a portfolio and the standard devia-
tion of a portfolio. Individual securities do not lie along line II.
The SML in Figure 10.11 relates expected return to beta. Figure 10.11 differs from
Figure 10.9 in at least two ways. First, beta appears in the horizontal axis of Figure 10.11,
but standard deviation appears in the horizontal axis of Figure 10.9. Second, the SML in
Figure 10.11 holds both for all individual securities and for all possible portfolios, whereas
line II in Figure 10.9 holds only for efficient portfolios.
We stated earlier that, under homogeneous expectations, point A in Figure 10.9 
becomes the market portfolio. In this situation, line II is referred to as the capital mar-
ket line (CML).
• Why is the SML a straight line?
• What is the capital-asset-pricing model?
• What are the differences between the capital market line and the security market line?
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
275
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
282
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
10.10 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
This chapter sets forth the fundamentals of modern portfolio theory. Our basic points are these:
1. This chapter shows us how to calculate the expected return and variance for individual
securities, and the covariance and correlation for pairs of securities. Given these statistics, the
expected return and variance for a portfolio of two securities A and B can be written as
2. In our notation, X stands for the proportion of a security in one’s portfolio. By varying X, one
can trace out the efficient set of portfolios. We graphed the efficient set for the two-asset case
as a curve, pointing out that the degree of curvature or bend in the graph reflects the
diversification effect: The lower the correlation between the two securities, the greater the
bend. The same general shape of the efficient set holds in a world of many assets.
3. Just as the formula for variance in the two-asset case is computed from a 22 matrix, the
variance formula is computed from an NN matrix in the N-asset case. We show that, with a
large number of assets, there are many more covariance terms than variance terms in the
matrix. In fact, the variance terms are effectively diversified away in a large portfolio but the
covariance terms are not. Thus, a diversified portfolio can only eliminate some, but not all, of
the risk of the individual securities.
4. The efficient set of risky assets can be combined with riskless borrowing and lending. In this
case, a rational investor will always choose to hold the portfolio of risky securities
represented by point A in Figure 10.9. Then he can either borrow or lend at the riskless rate
to achieve any desired point on line II in the figure.
5. The contribution of a security to the risk of a large, well-diversified portfolio is proportional
to the covariance of the security’s return with the market’s return. This contribution, when
standardized, is called the beta. The beta of a security can also be interpreted as the
responsiveness of a security’s return to that of the market.
6. The CAPM states that
In other words, the expected return on a security is positively (and linearly) related to the
security’s beta.
KEY TERMS
Beta
269
Homogeneous expectations
268
Capital-asset-pricing model
274
Market portfolio
268
Capital market line
275
Opportunity (feasible) set
255
Characteristic line
269
Portfolio
247
Correlation
245
Risk averse
263
Covariance
245
Security market line
274
Diversifiable (unique)
Separation principle
267
(unsystematic) risk
263
Systematic (market) risk
263
Efficient set (efficient frontier)
255
R  RF  RM  RF
Varportfolio  X 2
A  2
A  2XAXBAB  X 2
B  2
B
Expected return on portfolio  XARA  XBRB
276
Part III
Risk

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
283
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
SUGGESTED READINGS
The capital-asset-pricing model was originally published in these two classic articles:
Lintner, J. “Security Prices, Risk and Maximal Gains from Diversification.” Journal of Finance
(December 1965).
Sharpe, W. F. “Capital Asset Prices: A Theory of Market Equilibrium under Conditions of Risk.”
Journal of Finance (September 1964). (William F. Sharpe won the Nobel Prize in
Economics in 1990 for his development of CAPM.)
The seminal influence of Harry Markowitz is described in:
Markowitz, H. “Travels along the Efficient Frontier.” Dow Jones Asset Management
(May/June 1997).
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Expected Return, Variance, and Covariance
10.1 Ms. Sharp thinks that the distribution of rates of return on Q-mart stock is as follows.
State of
Probability of
Q-mart Stock
Economy
State Occurring
Return (%)
Depression
0.10
4.5%
Recession
0.20
4.4
Normal
0.50
12.0
Boom
0.20
20.7
a. What is the expected return for the stock?
b. What is the standard deviation of returns for the stock?
10.2 Suppose you have invested only in two stocks, A and B.You expect that returns on the
stocks depend on the following three states of economy, which are equally likely to happen.
State of
Return on
Return on
Economy
Stock A (%)
Stock B (%)
Bear
6.3%
3.7%
Normal
10.5
6.4
Bull
15.6
25.3
a. Calculate the expected return of each stock.
b. Calculate the standard deviation of returns of each stock.
c. Calculate the covariance and correlation between the two stocks.
10.3 Mr. Henry can invest in Highbull stock or Slowbear stock. His projection of the returns on
these two stocks is as follows:
State of
Probability of
Return on
Return on
Economy
State Occurring
Highbull Stock (%)
Slowbear Stock (%)
Recession
0.25
2.0%
5.0%
Normal
0.60
9.2
6.2
Boom
0.15
15.4
7.4
a. Calculate the expected return of each stock.
b. Calculate the standard deviation of return of each stock.
c. Calculate the covariance and correlation between the two stocks.
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
277

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
284
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Portfolios
10.4 A portfolio consists of 120 shares of Atlas stock, which sells for $50 per share, and 150
shares of Babcock stock, which sells for $20 per share. What are the weights of the two
stocks in this portfolio?
10.5 Security F has an expected return of 12 percent and a standard deviation of 9 percent per
year. Security G has an expected return of 18 percent and a standard deviation of 25
percent per year.
a. What is the expected return on a portfolio composed of 30 percent of security F and
70 percent of security G?
b. If the correlation coefficient between the returns of F and G is 0.2, what is the standard
deviation of the portfolio?
10.6 Suppose the expected returns and standard deviations of stocks A and B are 
,
,
, and B  0.2, respectively.
a. Calculate the expected return and standard deviation of a portfolio that is composed of
40 percent A and 60 percent B when the correlation coefficient between the stocks is 0.5.
b. Calculate the standard deviation of a portfolio that is composed of 40 percent A and 60
percent B when the correlation coefficient between the stocks is 0.5.
c. How does the correlation coefficient affect the standard deviation of the portfolio?
10.7 Suppose Janet Smith holds 100 shares of Macrosoft stock and 300 shares of Intelligence
stock. Macrosoft stock is currently sold at $80 per share, while Intelligence stock is sold
at $40. The expected return of Macrosoft stock is 15 percent, while that of Intelligence
stock is 20 percent. The standard deviation of Macrosoft is 8 percent, while that of
Intelligence is 20 percent. The correlation coefficient between the stocks is 0.38.
a. Calculate the expected return and standard deviation of her portfolio.
b. Today she sold 200 shares of Intelligence stock to pay the tuition. Calculate the
expected return and standard deviation of her new portfolio.
10.8 Consider the possible rates of return that you might obtain over the next year. You can
invest in stock U or stock V.
State of
Probability of
Stock U Return
Stock V Return
Economy
State Occurring
if State Occurs (%)
if State Occurs (%)
Recession
0.2
7%
5%
Normal
0.5
7
10
Boom
0.3
7
25
a. Determine the expected return, variance, and the standard deviation for stock U and
stock V.
b. Determine the covariance and correlation between the returns of stock U and stock V.
c. Determine the expected return and standard deviation of an equally weighted portfolio
of stock U and stock V.
10.9 Suppose there are only two stocks in the world: stock A and stock B. The expected
returns of these two stocks are 10 percent and 20 percent, while the standard deviations
of the stocks are 5 percent and 15 percent, respectively. The correlation coefficient of the
two stocks is zero.
a. Calculate the expected return and standard deviation of a portfolio that is composed of
30 percent A and 70 percent B.
b. Calculate the expected return and standard deviation of a portfolio that is composed of
90 percent A and 10 percent B.
c. Suppose you are risk averse. Would you hold 100 percent stock A? How about 100
percent stock B?
10.10 If a portfolio has a positive weight for each asset, can the expected return on the portfolio
be greater than the return on the asset in the portfolio that has the highest return? Can the
A  0.1
RB  0.25
RA  0.15
278
Part III
Risk

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
285
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
expected return on the portfolio be less that the return on the asset in the portfolio with
the lowest return? Explain.
10.11 Miss Maple is considering two securities, A and B, and the relevant information is
given below:
State of
Return on
Return on
Economy
Probability
Security A (%)
Security B (%)
Bear
0.4
3.0%
6.5%
Bull
0.6
15.0
6.5
a. Calculate the expected returns and standard deviations of the two securities.
b. Suppose Miss Maple invested $2,500 in security A and $3,500 in security B. Calculate
the expected return and standard deviation of her portfolio.
c. Suppose Miss Maple borrowed from her friend 40 shares of security B, which is
currently sold at $50, and sold all shares of the security. (She promised her friend
to pay back in a year with the same number of shares of security B.) Then she
bought security A with the proceeds obtained in the sales of security B shares and
the cash of $6,000 she owned. Calculate the expected return and standard deviation
of the portfolio.
10.12 A broker has advised you not to invest in oil industry stocks because, in her opinion, they
are far too risky. She has shown you evidence of how wildly the prices of oil stocks have
fluctuated in the recent past. She demonstrated that the standard deviation of oil stocks is
very high relative to most stocks. Do you think the broker’s advice is sound for a risk-
averse investor like you? Why or why not?
10.13 There are three securities in the market. The following chart shows their possible payoffs.
Probability
Return on
Return on
Return on
State
of Outcome
Security 1
Security 2
Security 3
1
0.10
0.25
0.25
0.10
2
0.40
0.20
0.15
0.15
3
0.40
0.15
0.20
0.20
4
0.10
0.10
0.10
0.25
a. What are the expected return and standard deviation of each security?
b. What are the covariances and correlations between the pairs of securities?
c. What are the expected return and standard deviation of a portfolio with half of its
funds invested in security 1 and half in security 2?
d. What are the expected return and standard deviation of a portfolio with half of its
funds invested in security 1 and half in security 3?
e. What are the expected return and standard deviation of a portfolio with half of its
funds invested in security 2 and half in security 3?
f. What do your answers in parts (a), (c), (d), and (e) imply about diversification?
10.14 Suppose that there are two stocks, A and B. Suppose that their returns are independent.
Stock A has a 40-percent chance of having a return of 15 percent and 60-percent chance
of a return of 10 percent. Stock B has a one-half chance of a 35-percent return and a one-
half chance of a 5-percent return.
a. Write the list of all of the possible outcomes and their probabilities.
b. What is the expected return on a portfolio with 50 percent invested in stock A and 50
percent invested in stock B?
10.15 Assume there are N securities in the market. The expected return of every security is 10
percent. All securities also have the same variance of 0.0144. The covariance between
any pair of securities is 0.0064.
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
279

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
286
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
a. What are the expected return and variance of an equally weighted portfolio containing
all N securities? Note: The weight of each security in the portfolio is 1/N.
b. What will happen to the variance as N gets larger?
c. What security characteristics are most important in the determination of the variance
of a well-diversified portfolio?
10.16 Is the following statement true or false? Explain.
The most important characteristic in determining the variance of a well-diversified
portfolio is the variance of the individual stocks.
10.17 Briefly explain why the covariance of a security with the rest of a portfolio is a more
appropriate measure of risk than the security’s variance.
10.18 Comment on the following quotation from a leading investment analyst.
Stocks that move perfectly with the market have a beta of 1. Betas get higher as
volatility goes up and lower as it goes down. Thus, Southern Co., a utility whose
shares have traded close to $12 for most of the past three years, has a low beta. At the
other extreme, there’s Texas Instruments, which has been as high as $150 and as low
as its current $75.
10.19 Assume that there are two stocks with the following characteristics. The covariance
between the returns on the stocks is 0.001.
Expected Return
Standard Deviation
A
0.05
0.1
B
0.10
0.2
a. What is the expected return on the minimum variance portfolio? (Hint: Find the
portfolio weights XA and XB such that the portfolio variance is minimized. Remember
that the sum of the weights must equal 1.)
b. If Cov(RA, RB)  0.02, what are the minimum variance weights?
c. What is the portfolio variance when Cov(RA, RB)  0.02?
10.20 Assume a world with homogeneous expectations (i.e., everybody agrees on expected
returns and standard deviations). In this world the market portfolio has an expected return
of 12 percent and a standard deviation of 10 percent. The risk-free asset has an expected
return of 5 percent.
a. What should the expected return of the portfolio be if it has a standard deviation of 
7 percent?
b. What should the standard deviation of the portfolio be if it has an expected return of
20 percent?
10.21 Consider the following information on the returns on the market and Fuji stock.
Expected Return
Expected Return
Type of Economy
on Market (%)
on Fuji (%)
Bear
2.5%
3.4%
Bull
16.3
12.8
a. Calculate the beta of Fuji. What is the responsiveness of Fuji’s return to movements of
the market?
b. Suppose the estimate of expected return on the market is 4.0 percent when the type
of economy is Bear. Using your answer in part (a), what should the expected return on
Fuji be in this case?
10.22 William Shakespeare’s character Polonius in Hamlet says, “Neither a borrower nor a
lender be.” Under the assumptions of the CAPM, what would be the composition of
Polonius’s portfolio?
280
Part III
Risk

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
287
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
10.23 Securities A, B, and C have the following characteristics.
Security
E(R)%
Beta
A
10%
0.7
B
14
1.2
C
20
1.8
a. What is the expected return on a portfolio with equal weights?
b. What is the beta of a portfolio with equal weights?
c. Are the three securities priced in equilibrium?
The CAPM
10.24 The Alpha firm makes pneumatic equipment. Its beta is 1.2. The market risk premium is
8.5 percent, and the current risk-free rate is 6 percent. What is the expected return for the
Alpha firm?
10.25 Suppose the beta for the Ross Corporation is 0.80. The risk-free rate is 6 percent, and the
market risk premium is 8.5 percent. What is the expected return for the Ross
Corporation?
10.26 The risk-free rate is 8 percent. The beta for the Jordan Company is 1.5, and the expected
return of the market is 15 percent. What is the expected return for the Jordan Company?
10.27 Suppose the market risk premium is 7.5 percent and the risk-free rate is 3.7 percent. The
expected return of TriStar Textiles is 14.2 percent. What is the beta for TriStar Textiles?
10.28 Consider the following two stocks:
Beta
Expected Return
Murck Pharmaceutical
1.4
25%
Pizer Drug Corp.
0.7
14%
Assume the CAPM holds. Based upon the CAPM, what is the return on the market? What
is the risk-free rate?
10.29 Suppose you observe the following situation:
Return if a State Occurs
State of Economy
Probability of State
Stock A
Stock B
Bust
.25
.10
.30
Normal
.50
.10
.05
Boom
.25
.20
.40
a. Calculate the expected return of each stock.
b. Assuming the CAPM is true and stock A’s beta is greater than stock B’s beta by .25,
what is the risk premium?
10.30 a. Draw the security market line for the case where the market-risk premium is 5 percent
and the risk-free rate is 7 percent.
b. Suppose that an asset has a beta of 1 and an expected return of 4 percent. Plot it on
the graph you drew in part (a). Is the security properly priced? If not, explain what will
happen in this market.
c. Suppose that an asset has a beta of 3 and an expected return of 20 percent. Plot it on
the graph you drew in part (a). Is the security properly priced? If not, explain what will
happen in this market.
10.31 A stock has a beta of 1.8. A security analyst who specializes in studying this stock
expects its return to be 18 percent. Suppose the risk-free rate is 5 percent and the market-
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
281

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
288
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
risk premium is 8 percent. Is the analyst pessimistic or optimistic about this stock relative
to the market’s expectations?
10.32 Suppose the expected return on the market is 13.8 percent and the risk-free rate is 6.4
percent. Solomon Inc. stock has a beta of 1.2.
a. What is the expected return on the Solomon stock?
b. If the risk-free rate decreases to 3.5 percent, what is the expected return on the
Solomon stock?
10.33 The expected return on a portfolio that combines the risk-free asset and the asset at the
point of tangency to the efficient set is 25 percent. The expected return was calculated
under the following assumptions:
The risk-free rate is 5 percent.
The expected return on the market portfolio of risky assets is 20 percent.
The standard deviation of the efficient portfolio is 4 percent.
In this environment, what expected rate of return would a security earn if it had a 0.5
correlation with the market and a standard deviation of 2 percent?
10.34 Suppose the current risk-free rate is 7.6 percent. Potpourri Inc. stock has a beta of 1.7 and
an expected return of 16.7 percent. (Assume the CAPM is true.)
a. What is the risk premium on the market?
b. Magnolia Industries stock has a beta of 0.8. What is the expected return on the
Magnolia stock?
c. Suppose you have invested $10,000 in both Potpourri and Magnolia, and the beta of
the portfolio is 1.07. How much did you invest in each stock? What is the expected
return on the portfolio?
10.35 Suppose the risk-free rate is 6.3 percent and the market portfolio has an expected rate of
return of 14.8 percent. The market portfolio has a variance of 0.0121. Portfolio Z has a
correlation coefficient with the market of 0.45 and a variance of 0.0169. According to the
CAPM, what is the expected rate of return on portfolio Z?
10.36 The following data have been developed for the Durham Company.
Variance of market returns  0.04326
Covariance of the returns on Durham and the market  0.0635
Suppose the market risk premium is 9.4 percent and the expected return on Treasury bills
is 4.9 percent.
a. Write the equation of the security market line.
b. What is the required return of Durham Company?
10.37 Johnson Paint stock has an expected return of 19 percent with a beta of 1.7, while
Williamson Tire stock has an expected return of 14 percent with a beta of 1.2. Assume
the CAPM is true. What is the expected return on the market? What is the risk-free rate?
10.38 Is the following statement true or false? Explain.
A risky security cannot have an expected return that is less than the risk-free rate
because no risk-averse investor would be willing to hold this asset in equilibrium.
10.39 Suppose you have invested $30,000 in the following four stocks.
Security
Amount Invested
Beta
Stock A
$ 5,000
0.75
Stock B
10,000
1.10
Stock C
8,000
1.36
Stock D
7,000
1.88
The risk-free rate is 4 percent and the expected return on the market portfolio is 15 percent.
Based on the CAPM, what is the expected return on the above portfolio?
282
Part III
Risk

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
289
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
10.40 You have been provided the following data on the securities of three firms and the
market:
Security
i
iM
i
Firm A
0.13
0.12
(i)
0.90
Firm B
0.16
(ii)
0.40
1.10
Firm C
0.25
0.24
0.75
(iii)
The market
0.15
0.10
(iv)
(v)
The risk-free asset
0.05
(vi)
(vii)
(viii)
 Average return of security i.
i  Standard deviation of the return of i.
iM  Correlation coefficient of return on asset i with the market portfolio.
i  Beta coefficient of security i.
Assume the CAPM holds true.
a. Fill in the missing values in the table.
b. Provide an evaluation of the investment performance of the three firms.
c. What is your investment recommendation? Why?
10.41 There are two stocks in the market, stock A and stock B. The price of stock A today is
$50. The price of stock A next year will be $40 if the economy is in a recession, $55 if
the economy is normal, and $60 if the economy is expanding. The attendant probabilities
of recession, normal times, and expansion are 0.1, 0.8, and 0.1, respectively. Stock A pays
no dividend.
Assume the CAPM is true. Other information about the market includes:
SD(RM)  Standard deviation of the market portfolio
 0.10
SD(RB)  Standard deviation of stock B’s return
 0.12
 Expected return on stock B
 0.09
Corr(RA,RM)  The correlation of stock A and the market
 0.8
Corr(RB,RM)  The correlation of stock B and the market
 0.2
Corr(RA,RB)  The correlation of stock A and stock B
 0.6
a. If you are a typical, risk-averse investor, which stock would you prefer? Why?
b. What are the expected return and standard deviation of a portfolio consisting of 70
percent of stock A and 30 percent of stock B?
c. What is the beta of the portfolio in part (b)?
Appendix 10A IS BETA DEAD?
The capital-asset-pricing model represents one of the most important advances in financial
economics. It is clearly useful for investment purposes, since it shows how the expected re-
turn on an asset is related to its beta. In addition, we will show in Chapter 12 that it is use-
ful in corporate finance, since the discount rate on a project is a function of the project’s
beta. However, one must never forget that, as with any other model, the CAPM is not re-
vealed truth but, rather, a construct to be empirically tested.
RB
Ri
Ri
Chapter 10
Return and Risk: The Capital-Asset-Pricing Model (CAPM)
283

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
10. Return and Risk: The 
Capital−Asset−Pricing 
Model
290
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The first empirical tests of the CAPM occurred over 20 years ago and were quite sup-
portive. Using data from the 1930s to the 1960s, researchers showed that the average return
on a portfolio of stocks was positively related to the beta of the portfolio,18 a finding con-
sistent with the CAPM. Though some evidence in these studies was less consistent with the
CAPM,19 financial economists were quick to embrace the CAPM following these empiri-
cal papers.
While a large body of empirical work developed in the following decades, often with
varying results, the CAPM was not seriously called into question until the 1990s. Two pa-
pers by Fama and French20 (yes, the same Fama whose joint paper in 1973 with James
MacBeth supported the CAPM) present evidence inconsistent with the model. Their work
has received a great deal of attention, both in academic circles and in the popular press, with
newspaper articles displaying headlines such as “Beta Is Dead!” These papers make two re-
lated points. First, they conclude that the relationship between average return and beta is
weak over the period from 1941 to 1990 and virtually nonexistent from 1963 to 1990.
Second, they argue that the average return on a security is negatively related to both the
firm’s price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio and the firm’s market value-to-book value (M/B) ratio.
These contentions, if confirmed by other research, would be quite damaging to the CAPM.
After all, the CAPM states that the expected returns on stocks should be related only to beta,
and not to other factors such as P/E and M/B.
However, a number of researchers have criticized the Fama-French papers. While we
avoid an in-depth discussion of the fine points of the debate, we mention a few issues. First,
although Fama and French cannot reject the hypothesis that average returns are unrelated
to beta, one can also not reject the hypothesis that average returns are related to beta exactly
as specified by the CAPM. In other words, while 50 years of data seem like a lot, they may
simply not be enough to test the CAPM properly. Second, the result with P/E and M/B may
be due to a statistical fallacy called a hindsight bias.21 Third, P/E and M/B are merely two
of an infinite number of possible factors. Thus, the relationship between average return and
both P/E and M/B may be spurious, being nothing more than the result of data mining.
Fourth, average returns are positively related to beta over the period from 1927 to the pres-
ent. There appears to be no compelling reason for emphasizing a shorter period than this
one. Fifth, average returns are actually positively related to beta over shorter periods when
annual data, rather than monthly data, are used to estimate beta.22 There appears to be no
compelling reason for preferring either monthly data over annual data or vice versa. Thus,
we believe that, while the results of Fama and French are quite intriguing, they cannot be
viewed as the final word.
284
Part III
Risk
18Perhaps the two most well-known papers were Fischer Black, Michael C. Jensen, and Myron S. Scholes, “The
Capital Asset Pricing Model: Some Empirical Tests,” in M. Jensen, ed., Studies in the Theory of Capital Markets
(New York: Praeger, 1972), and Eugene F. Fama and James MacBeth, “Risk, Return and Equilibrium: Some
Empirical Tests,” Journal of Political Economy 8 (1973), pp. 607–36.
19For example, the studies suggest that the average return on a zero-beta portfolio is above the risk-free rate, a
finding inconsistent with the CAPM.
20Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French, “The Cross-Section of Expected Stock Returns,” Journal of Finance
47 (1992), pp. 427–66, and E. F. Fama and K. R. French, “Common Risk Factors in the Returns on Stocks and
Bonds,” Journal of Financial Economics 17 (1993), pp. 3–56.
21For example, see William J. Breen and Robert A. Koraczyk, “On Selection Biases in Book-to-Market Based
Tests of Asset Pricing Models,” unpublished paper. Northwestern University, November 1993; and S. P. Kothari,
Jay Shanken, and Richard G. Sloan, “Another Look at the Cross-Section of Expected Stock Returns,” Journal of
Finance (March 1995).
22Points 4 and 5 are addressed in the Kothari, Shanken, and Sloan paper.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
291
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
An Alternative View of
Risk and Return: The
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
CHAPTER 11
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
T
he previous two chapters mentioned the obvious fact that returns on securities are
variable. This variability is measured by variance and by standard deviation.
Next, we mentioned the somewhat less obvious fact that the returns on securities
are interdependent. We measured the degree of interdependence between a pair of secu-
rities by covariance and by correlation. This interdependence led to a number of inter-
esting results. First, we showed that diversification in stocks can eliminate some, but not
all, risk. By contrast, we showed that diversification in a casino can eliminate all risk.
Second, the interdependence of returns led to the capital-asset-pricing model (CAPM).
This model posits a positive (and linear) relationship between the beta of a security and
its expected return.
The CAPM was developed in the early 1960s.1 An alternative to the CAPM, called the
arbitrage pricing theory (APT), has been developed more recently.2 For our purposes, the
differences between the two models stem from the APT’s treatment of interrelationship
among the returns on securities.3 The APT assumes that returns on securities are generated
by a number of industrywide and marketwide factors. Correlation between a pair of secu-
rities occurs when these two securities are affected by the same factor or factors. By con-
trast, though the CAPM allows correlation among securities, it does not specify the under-
lying factors causing the correlation.
Both the APT and the CAPM imply a positive relationship between expected return
and risk. In our (perhaps biased) opinion, the APT allows this relationship to be developed
in a particularly intuitive manner. In addition, the APT views risk more generally than just
the standardized covariance or beta of a security with the market portfolio. Therefore, we
offer this approach as an alternative to the CAPM.
1In particular, see Jack Treynor, “Toward a Theory of the Market Value of Risky Assets,” unpublished manuscript
(1961); William F. Sharpe, “Capital Asset Prices: A Theory of Market Equilibrium under Conditions of Risk,”
Journal of Finance (September 1964); and John Lintner, “The Valuation of Risky Assets and the Selection of
Risky Investments in Stock Portfolios and Capital Budgets,” Review of Economics and Statistics (February 1965).
2See Stephen A. Ross, “The Arbitrage Theory of Capital Asset Pricing,” Journal of Economic Theory (December 1976).
3This is by no means the only difference in the assumptions of the two models. For example, the CAPM usually
assumes either that the returns on assets are normally distributed or that investors have quadratic utility
functions. The APT does not require either assumption. While this and other differences are quite important in
research, they are not relevant to the material presented in our text.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
292
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
11.1 FACTOR MODELS: ANNOUNCEMENTS, SURPRISES,
AND EXPECTED RETURNS
We learned in the previous chapter how to construct portfolios and how to evaluate their re-
turns. We now step back and examine the returns on individual securities more closely. By
doing this we will find that the portfolios inherit and alter the properties of the securities
they comprise.
To be concrete, let us consider the return on the stock of a company called Flyers. What
will determine this stock’s return in, say, the coming month?
The return on any stock traded in a financial market consists of two parts. First, the nor-
mal or expected return from the stock is the part of the return that shareholders in the mar-
ket predict or expect. It depends on all of the information shareholders have that bears on the
stock, and it uses all of our understanding of what will influence the stock in the next month.
The second part is the uncertain or risky return on the stock. This is the portion that
comes from information that will be revealed within the month. The list of such informa-
tion is endless, but here are some examples:
• News about Flyers’ research.
• Government figures released on the gross national product (GNP).
• Results of the latest arms-control talks.
• Discovery that a rival’s product has been tampered with.
• News that Flyers’ sales figures are higher than expected.
• A sudden drop in interest rates.
• The unexpected retirement of Flyers’ founder and president.
A way to write the return on Flyers’ stock in the coming month, then, is
where R is the actual total return in the month,
is the expected part of the return, and U
stands for the unexpected part of the return.
Some care must be exercised in studying the effect of these or other news items on the
return. For example, the government might give us GNP or unemployment figures for this
month, but how much of that is new information for shareholders? Surely at the beginning
of the month shareholders will have some idea or forecast of what the monthly GNP will
be. To the extent to which the shareholders had forecast the government’s announcement,
that forecast should be factored into the expected part of the return as of the beginning of
the month,
. On the other hand, insofar as the announcement by the government is a sur-
prise and to the extent to which it influences the return on the stock, it will be part of U, the
unanticipated part of the return.
As an example, suppose shareholders in the market had forecast that the GNP increase
this month would be 0.5 percent. If GNP influences our company’s stock, this forecast will
be part of the information shareholders use to form the expectation,
, of the monthly re-
turn. If the actual announcement this month is exactly 0.5 percent, the same as the forecast,
then the shareholders learned nothing new, and the announcement is not news. It is like
hearing a rumor about a friend when you knew it all along. Another way of saying this is
that shareholders had already discounted the announcement. This use of the word discount
is different from that in computing present value, but the spirit is similar. When we discount
a dollar in the future, we say that it is worth less to us because of the time value of money.
When we discount an announcement or a news item in the future, we mean that it has less
impact on the market because the market already knew much of it.
R
R
R
R  R  U
286
Part III
Risk

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
293
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
On the other hand, suppose the government announced that the actual GNP increase
during the year was 1.5 percent. Now shareholders have learned something—that the in-
crease is one percentage point higher than they had forecast. This difference between the
actual result and the forecast, one percentage point in this example, is sometimes called the
innovation or surprise.
Any announcement can be broken into two parts, the anticipated or expected part and
the surprise or innovation:
Announcement  Expected part  Surprise
The expected part of any announcement is part of the information the market uses to form
the expectation,
, of the return on the stock. The surprise is the news that influences the
unanticipated return on the stock, U.
To give another example, if shareholders knew in January that the president of a firm
was going to resign, the official announcement in February will be fully expected and will
be discounted by the market. Because the announcement was expected before February, its
influence on the stock will have taken place before February. The announcement itself in
February will contain no surprise and the stock’s price should not change at all at the an-
nouncement in February.
When we speak of news, then, we refer to the surprise part of any announcement and
not the portion that the market has expected and therefore has already discounted.
• What are the two basic parts of a return?
• Under what conditions will some news have no effect on common stock prices?
11.2 RISK: SYSTEMATIC AND UNSYSTEMATIC
The unanticipated part of the return—that portion resulting from surprises—is the true risk
of any investment. After all, if we got what we had expected, there would be no risk and no
uncertainty.
There are important differences, though, among various sources of risk. Look at our
previous list of news stories. Some of these stories are directed specifically at Flyers, and
some are more general. Which of the news items are of specific importance to Flyers?
Announcements about interest rates or GNP are clearly important for nearly all com-
panies, whereas the news about Flyers’ president, its research, its sales, or the affairs of a
rival company are of specific interest to Flyers. We will divide these two types of an-
nouncements and the resulting risk, then, into two components: a systematic portion, called
systematic risk, and the remainder, which we call specific or unsystematic risk. The fol-
lowing definitions describe the difference:
• A systematic risk is any risk that affects a large number of assets, each to a greater
or lesser degree.
• An unsystematic risk is a risk that specifically affects a single asset or a small group
of assets.4
Uncertainty about general economic conditions, such as GNP, interest rates, or inflation,
is an example of systematic risk. These conditions affect nearly all stocks to some degree.
R
Chapter 11
An Alternative View of Risk and Return: The Arbitrage Pricing Theory
287
4In the previous chapter, we briefly mentioned that unsystematic risk is risk that can be diversified away in a
large portfolio. This result will also follow from the present analysis.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
294
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
An unanticipated or surprise increase in inflation affects wages and the costs of the supplies
that companies buy, the value of the assets that companies own, and the prices at which com-
panies sell their products. These forces to which all companies are susceptible are the
essence of systematic risk.
In contrast, the announcement of a small oil strike by a company may very well affect
that company alone or a few other companies. Certainly, it is unlikely to have an effect on
the world oil market. To stress that such information is unsystematic and affects only some
specific companies, we sometimes call it an idiosyncratic risk.
The distinction between a systematic risk and an unsystematic risk is never as exact as
we make it out to be. Even the most narrow and peculiar bit of news about a company rip-
ples through the economy. It reminds us of the tale of the war that was lost because one
horse lost a shoe; even a minor event may have an impact on the world. But this degree of
hair-splitting should not trouble us much. To paraphrase a Supreme Court Justice’s com-
ment when speaking of pornography, we may not be able to define a systematic risk and an
unsystematic risk exactly, but we know them when we see them.
This permits us to break down the risk of Flyers’ stock into its two components: the
systematic and the unsystematic. As is traditional, we will use the Greek epsilon, , to rep-
resent the unsystematic risk and write
where we have used the letter m to stand for the systematic risk. Sometimes systematic risk
is referred to as market risk. This emphasizes the fact that m influences all assets in the mar-
ket to some extent.
The important point about the way we have broken the total risk, U, into its two com-
ponents, m and , is that , because it is specific to the company, is unrelated to the specific
risk of most other companies. For example, the unsystematic risk on Flyers’stock, F, is un-
related to the unsystematic risk of Xerox’s stock, X. The risk that Flyers’ stock will go up
or down because of a discovery by its research team—or its failure to discover something—
probably is unrelated to any of the specific uncertainties that affect Xerox stock.
Using the terms of the previous chapter, this means that the unsystematic risk of Flyers’
stock and Xerox’s stock are unrelated to each other, or uncorrelated. In the symbols of statistics,
Corr(F, X)  0
• Describe the difference between systematic risk and unsystematic risk.
• Why is unsystematic risk sometimes referred to as idiosyncratic risk?
11.3 SYSTEMATIC RISK AND BETAS
The fact that the unsystematic parts of the returns on two companies are unrelated to each
other does not mean that the systematic portions are unrelated. On the contrary, because
both companies are influenced by the same systematic risks, individual companies’ sys-
tematic risks and therefore their total returns will be related.
For example, a surprise about inflation will influence almost all companies to some ex-
tent. How sensitive is Flyers’ stock return to unanticipated changes in inflation? If Flyers’
stock tends to go up on news that inflation is exceeding expectations, we would say that it
is positively related to inflation. If the stock goes down when inflation exceeds expectations
and up when inflation falls short of expectations, it is negatively related. In the unusual case
where a stock’s return is uncorrelated with inflation surprises, inflation has no effect on it.
 R  m  
R  R  U
288
Part III
Risk
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
295
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
We capture the influence of a systematic risk like inflation on a stock by using the beta
coefficient. The beta coefficient, , tells us the response of the stock’s return to a systematic
risk. In the previous chapter, beta measured the responsiveness of a security’s return to a spe-
cific risk factor, the return on the market portfolio. We used this type of responsiveness to de-
velop the capital-asset-pricing model. Because we now consider many types of systematic
risks, our current work can be viewed as a generalization of our work in the previous chapter.
If a company’s stock is positively related to the risk of inflation, that stock has a posi-
tive inflation beta. If it is negatively related to inflation, its inflation beta is negative, and if
it is uncorrelated with inflation, its inflation beta is zero.
It’s not hard to imagine some stocks with positive inflation betas and other stocks with
negative inflation betas. The stock of a company owning gold mines will probably have a
positive inflation beta because an unanticipated rise in inflation is usually associated with
an increase in gold prices. On the other hand, an automobile company facing stiff foreign
competition might find that an increase in inflation means that the wages it pays are higher,
but that it cannot raise its prices to cover the increase. This profit squeeze, as the company’s
expenses rise faster than its revenues, would give its stock a negative inflation beta.
Some companies that have few assets and that act as brokers—buying items in com-
petitive markets and reselling them in other markets—might be relatively unaffected by in-
flation, because their costs and their revenues would rise and fall together. Their stock
would have an inflation beta of zero.
Some structure is useful at this point. Suppose we have identified three systematic risks
on which we want to focus. We may believe that these three are sufficient to describe the
systematic risks that influence stock returns. Three likely candidates are inflation, GNP, and
interest rates. Thus, every stock will have a beta associated with each of these systematic
risks: an inflation beta, a GNP beta, and an interest-rate beta. We can write the return on the
stock, then, in the following form:
where we have used the symbol I to denote the stock’s inflation beta, GNP for its GNP
beta, and r to stand for its interest-rate beta. In the equation, F stands for a surprise,
whether it be in inflation, GNP, or interest rates.
Let us go through an example to see how the surprises and the expected return add up to
produce the total return, R, on a given stock. To make it more familiar, suppose that the return
is over a horizon of a year and not just a month. Suppose that at the beginning of the year, infla-
tion is forecast to be 5 percent for the year, GNP is forecast to increase by 2 percent, and interest
rates are expected not to change. Suppose the stock we are looking at has the following betas:
I  2
GNP  1
r  1.8
The magnitude of the beta describes how great an impact a systematic risk has on a stock’s
returns. A beta of 1 indicates that the stock’s return rises and falls one for one with the sys-
tematic factor. This means, in our example, that because the stock has a GNP beta of 1, it ex-
periences a 1-percent increase in return for every 1-percent surprise increase in GNP. If its GNP
beta were 2, it would fall by 2 percent when there was an unanticipated increase of 1 percent
in GNP, and it would rise by 2 percent if GNP experienced a surprise 1-percent decline.
Finally, let us suppose that during the year the following occurs: Inflation rises by 
7 percent, GNP rises by only 1 percent, and interest rates fall by 2 percent. Last, suppose
we learn some good news about the company, perhaps that it is succeeding quickly with
 R  IFI  GNPFGNP  rFr  
 R  m  
R  R  U
Chapter 11
An Alternative View of Risk and Return: The Arbitrage Pricing Theory
289

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
296
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
some new business strategy, and that this unanticipated development contributes 5 percent
to its return. In other words,
  5%
Let us assemble all of this information to find what return the stock had during the year.
First, we must determine what news or surprises took place in the systematic factors.
From our information we know that
Expected inflation  5%
Expected GNP change  2%
and
Expected change in interest rates  0%
This means that the market had discounted these changes, and the surprises will be the dif-
ference between what actually takes place and these expectations:
FI  Surprise in inflation
 Actual inflation  Expected inflation
 7%  5%
 2%
Similarly,
FGNP  Surprise in GNP
 Actual GNP  Expected GNP
 1%  2%
 1%
and
Fr  Surprise in change in interest rates
 Actual change  Expected change
 2%  0%
 2%
The total effect of the systematic risks on the stock return, then, is
m  Systematic risk portion of return
 IFI  GNPFGNP  rFr
 [2  2%]  [1  (1%)]  [(1.8)  (2%)]
 6.6%
Combining this with the unsystematic risk portion, the total risky portion of the return on
the stock is
m    6.6%  5%  11.6%
Last, if the expected return on the stock for the year was, say, 4 percent, the total return
from all three components will be
 4%  6.6%  5%
 15.6%
The model we have been looking at is called a factor model, and the systematic
sources of risk, designated F, are called the factors. To be perfectly formal, a k-factor model
is a model where each stock’s return is generated by
R  R  m  
290
Part III
Risk

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
297
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
where  is specific to a particular stock and uncorrelated with the  term for other stocks.
In our preceding example we had a three-factor model. We used inflation, GNP, and the
change in interest rates as examples of systematic sources of risk, or factors. Researchers
have not settled on what is the correct set of factors. Like so many other questions, this
might be one of those matters that is never laid to rest.
In practice, researchers frequently use a one-factor model for returns. They do not use
all of the sorts of economic factors we used previously as examples; instead, they use an in-
dex of stock market returns—like the S&P 500, or even a more broadly based index with
more stocks in it—as the single factor. Using the single-factor model we can write returns as
Where there is only one factor (the returns on the S&P 500–portfolio index), we do not need
to put a subscript on the beta. In this form (with minor modifications) the factor model is
called a market model. This term is employed because the index that is used for the factor
is an index of returns on the whole (stock) market. The market model is written as
where RM is the return on the market portfolio.5 The single  is called the beta coefficient.
• What is an inflation beta? A GNP beta? An interest-rate beta?
• What is the difference between a k-factor model and the market model?
• Define the beta coefficient.
11.4 PORTFOLIOS AND FACTOR MODELS
Now let us see what happens to portfolios of stocks when each of the stocks follows a one-
factor model. For purposes of discussion, we will take the coming one-month period and
examine returns. We could have used a day or a year or any other time period. If the period
represents the time between decisions, however, we would rather it be short than long, and
a month is a reasonable time frame to use.
We will create portfolios from a list of N stocks, and we will use a one-factor model to
capture the systematic risk. The ith stock in the list will therefore have returns
(11.1)
where we have subscripted the variables to indicate that they relate to the ith stock. Notice
that the factor F is not subscripted. The factor that represents systematic risk could be a sur-
prise in GNP, or we could use the market model and let the difference between the S&P 500
return and what we expect that return to be,
, be the factor. In either case,
the factor applies to all of the stocks.
RS&P500  RS&P500
Ri  Ri  iF  i
R  R  RM  RM  
R  R  RS&P500  RS&P500  
R  R  1F1  2F2   . . .  kFk  
Chapter 11
An Alternative View of Risk and Return: The Arbitrage Pricing Theory
291
5Alternatively, the market model could be written as
R    RM  
Here alpha () is an intercept term equal 
.
R  RM
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
298
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The i is subscripted because it represents the unique way the factor influences the ith
stock. To recapitulate our discussion of factor models, if i is zero, the returns on the ith
stock are
In words, the ith stock’s returns are unaffected by the factor, F, if i is zero. If i is positive,
positive changes in the factor raise the ith stock’s returns, and declines lower them. Con-
versely, if i is negative, its returns and the factor move in opposite directions.
Figure 11.1 illustrates the relationship between a stock’s excess returns,
,
and the factor F for different betas, where i  0. The lines in Figure 11.1 plot equation
(11.1) on the assumption that there has been no unsystematic risk. That is, i  0.
Because we are assuming positive betas, the lines slope upward, indicating that the re-
turn on the stock rises with F. Notice that if the factor is zero (F  0), the line passes
through zero on the y-axis.
Now let us see what happens when we create stock portfolios where each stock follows
a one-factor model. Let Xi be the proportion of security i in the portfolio. That is, if an in-
dividual with a portfolio of $100 wants $20 in General Motors, we say XGM  20%.
Because the Xs represent the proportions of wealth we are investing in each of the stocks,
we know that they must add up to 100 percent or 1. That is,
X1  X2  X3  . . .  XN  1
We know that the portfolio return is the weighted average of the returns on the indi-
vidual assets in the portfolio. Algebraically, this can be written as:
RP  X1R1  X2R2  X3R3  . . .  XNRN
(11.2)
Ri  Ri
Ri  Ri  i
292
Part III
Risk
The excess return (%)
on stock i: Ri – Ri
The return (%)
on the factor, F
–5
15
10
5
–10
–15
20
–20
–15
–10
–5
5
10
15
20
i = 1.5
i = 1.0
i = 0.5
–20
I FIGURE 11.1 The One-Factor Model
Each line represents a different security, where each security has a different beta.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
299
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
We saw from equation (11.1) that each asset, in turn, is determined by both the factor F and
the unsystematic risk of i. Thus, by substituting equation (11.1) for each Ri in equation
(11.2), we have
(11.3)
(Return on stock 1)
(Return on stock 2)
(Return on stock 3)
(Return on stock N)
Equation (11.3) shows us that the return on a portfolio is determined by three sets of parameters:
1. The expected return on each individual security,
.
2. The beta of each security multiplied by the factor F.
3. The unsystematic risk of each individual security, i.
We express equation (11.3) in terms of these three sets of parameters as
Weighted Average of Expected Returns:
(11.4)
(Weighted Average of Betas)F:
 (X11  X22  X33  . . .  XNN)F
Weighted Average of Unsystematic Risks:
 X11  X22  X33  . . .  XNN
This rather imposing equation is actually straightforward. The first row is the weighted av-
erage of each security’s expected return. The items in the parentheses of the second row rep-
resent the weighted average of each security’s beta. This weighted average is, in turn, mul-
tiplied by the factor F. The third row represents a weighted average of the unsystematic risks
of the individual securities.
Where does uncertainty appear in equation (11.4)? There is no uncertainty in the first
row because only the expected value of each security’s return appears there. Uncertainty in
the second row is reflected by only one item, F. That is, while we know that the expected
value of F is zero, we do not know what its value will be over a particular time period.
Uncertainty in the third row is reflected by each unsystematic risk, i.
Portfolios and Diversification
In the previous sections of this chapter, we expressed the return on a single security in terms
of our factor model. Portfolios were treated next. Because investors generally hold diversi-
fied portfolios, we now want to know what equation (11.4) looks like in a large or diversi-
fied portfolio.6
As it turns out, something unusual occurs to equation (11.4); the third row actually dis-
appears in a large portfolio. To see this, consider a gambler who divides $1,000 by betting on
red over many spins of the roulette wheel. For example, he may participate in 1,000 spins, bet-
ting $1 at a time. Though we do not know ahead of time whether a particular spin will yield
red or black, we can be confident that red will win about 50 percent of the time. Ignoring the
house take, the investor can be expected to end up with just about his original $1,000.
RP  X1R1  X2R2  X3R3   . . .  XNRN
Ri
 X3R3  3F  3  . . . XNRN N F  N
RP  X1R1  1F  1             X2R2  2F  2
Chapter 11
An Alternative View of Risk and Return: The Arbitrage Pricing Theory
293
6Technically, we can think of a large portfolio as one where an investor keeps increasing the number of securities
without limit. In practice, effective diversification would occur if at least a few dozen securities were held.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
300
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Though we are concerned with stocks, not roulette wheels, the same principle applies.
Each security has its own unsystematic risk, where the surprise for one stock is unrelated
to the surprise of another stock. By investing a small amount in each security, the weighted
average of the unsystematic risks will be very close to zero in a large portfolio.7
Although the third row completely vanishes in a large portfolio, nothing unusual oc-
curs in either row 1 or row 2. Row 1 remains a weighted average of the expected returns on
the individual securities as securities are added to the portfolio. Because there is no uncer-
tainty at all in the first row, there is no way for diversification to cause this row to vanish.
The terms inside the parentheses of the second row remain a weighted average of the betas.
They do not vanish, either, when securities are added. Because the factor F is unaffected
when securities are added to the portfolios, the second row does not vanish.
Why does the third row vanish while the second row does not, though both rows reflect
uncertainty? The key is that there are many unsystematic risks in row 3. Because these risks
are independent of each other, the effect of diversification becomes stronger as we add more
assets to the portfolio. The resulting portfolio becomes less and less risky, and the return
becomes more certain. However, the systematic risk, F, affects all securities because it is
outside the parentheses in row 2. Since one cannot avoid this factor by investing in many
securities, diversification does not occur in this row.
EXAMPLE
The preceding material can be further explained by the following example. We
keep our one-factor model here but make three specific assumptions:
1. All securities have the same expected return of 10 percent. This assumption im-
plies that the first row of equation (11.4) must also equal 10 percent because this
row is a weighted average of the expected returns of the individual securities.
2. All securities have a beta of 1. The sum of the terms inside the parentheses in
the second row of (11.4) must equal 1 because these terms are a weighted av-
erage of the individual betas. Since the terms inside the parentheses are multi-
plied by F, the value of the second row is 1  F  F.
3. In this example, we focus on the behavior of one individual, Walter V. Bagehot.
Mr. Bagehot decides to hold an equally weighted portfolio. That is, the pro-
portion of each security in his portfolio is 1/N.
We can express the return on Mr. Bagehot’s portfolio as
Return on Walter V. Bagehot’s Portfolio:
(11.4′)
↕
↕
From
From
From row 3 of (11.4)
row 1
row 2
of (11.4)
of (11.4)
RP  10%  F   1
N1  1
N2  1
N3   . . .  1
NN
294
Part III
Risk
7More precisely, we say that the weighted average of the unsystematic risk approaches zero as the number of
equally weighted securities in a portfolio approaches infinity.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
301
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
We mentioned before that, as N increases without limit, row 3 of (11.4) becomes equal to zero.8
Thus, the return to Walter Bagehot’s portfolio when the number of securities is very large is
RP  10%  F
(11.4″)
The key to diversification is exhibited in (11.4″). The unsystematic risk of row 3 vanishes,
while the systematic risk of row 2 remains.
This is illustrated in Figure 11.2. Systematic risk, captured by variation in the factor F,
is not reduced through diversification. Conversely, unsystematic risk diminishes as securi-
ties are added, vanishing as the number of securities becomes infinite. Our result is analo-
gous to the diversification example of the previous chapter. In that chapter, we said that un-
diversifiable or systematic risk arises from positive covariances between securities. In this
chapter, we say that systematic risk arises from a common factor F. Because a common fac-
tor causes positive covariances, the arguments of the two chapters are parallel.
• How can the return on a portfolio be expressed in terms of a factor model?
• What risk is diversified away in a large portfolio?
11.5 BETAS AND EXPECTED RETURNS
The Linear Relationship
We have argued many times that the expected return on a security compensates for its risk. In
the previous chapter we showed that market beta (the standardized covariance of the security’s
returns with those of the market) was the appropriate measure of risk under the assumptions
Chapter 11
An Alternative View of Risk and Return: The Arbitrage Pricing Theory
295
2
                     
P
Systematic
risk
N, number of
securities
in portfolio
Unsystematic
risk
                         Total risk, 
I FIGURE 11.2 Diversification and the Portfolio Risk for an Equally
Weighted Portfolio
Total risk decreases as the number of securities in the portfolio rises. This drop occurs only in the unsystematic-
risk component. Systematic risk is unaffected by diversification.
8Our presentation on this point has been nonrigorous. The student interested in more rigor should note that the
variance of row 3 is
where 
is the variance of each . This can be rewritten as 
, which tends to 0 as N goes to infinity.
2
e /N
2

1
N22
  1
N22
  1
N22
   . . .  1
N22
  1
N2N2

QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
302
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
of homogeneous expectations and riskless borrowing and lending. The capital-asset-pricing
model, which posited these assumptions, implied that the expected return on a security was
positively (and linearly) related to its beta. We will find a similar relationship between risk and
return in the one-factor model of this chapter.
We begin by noting that the relevant risk in large and well-diversified portfolios is all
systematic because unsystematic risk is diversified away. An implication is that, when a
well-diversified shareholder considers changing her holdings of a particular stock, she can
ignore the security’s unsystematic risk.
Notice that we are not claiming that stocks, like portfolios, have no unsystematic risk.
Nor are we saying that the unsystematic risk of a stock will not affect its returns. Stocks do
have unsystematic risk, and their actual returns do depend on the unsystematic risk.
Because this risk washes out in a well-diversified portfolio, however, shareholders can ig-
nore this unsystematic risk when they consider whether or not to add a stock to their port-
folio. Therefore, if shareholders are ignoring the unsystematic risk, only the systematic risk
of a stock can be related to its expected return.
This relationship is illustrated in the security market line of Figure 11.3. Points P, C,
A, and L all lie on the line emanating from the risk-free rate of 10 percent. The points rep-
resenting each of these four assets can be created by combinations of the risk-free rate and
any of the other three assets. For example, since A has a beta of 2.0 and P has a beta of 1.0,
a portfolio of 50 percent in asset A and 50 percent in the riskless rate has the same beta as
asset P. The risk-free rate is 10 percent and the expected return on security A is 35 percent,
implying that the combination’s return of 22.5 percent [(10%  35%)/2] is identical to se-
curity P’s expected return. Because security P has both the same beta and the same expected
return as a combination of the riskless asset and security A, an individual is equally inclined
to add a small amount of security P and to add a small amount of this combination to her
portfolio. However, the unsystematic risk of security P need not be equal to the unsystem-
atic risk of the combination of security A and the risk-free rate because unsystematic risk is
diversified away in a large portfolio.
Of course, the potential combinations of points on the security market line are endless.
One can duplicate P by combinations of the risk-free rate and either C or L (or both of
them). One can duplicate C (or A or L) by borrowing at the risk-free rate to invest in P. The
infinite number of points on the security market line that are not labeled can be used as well.
296
Part III
Risk
Beta: i
1
2
35
22.5
RF =10
Expected returns (%)
Ri
L
A
C
B
P
Security market line
I FIGURE 11.3 A Graph of Beta and Expected Return for Individual
Stocks under the One-Factor Model

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
303
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Now consider security B. Because its expected return is below the line, no investor
would hold it. Instead, the investor would prefer security P, a combination of security A
and the riskless asset, or some other combination. Thus, security B’s price is too high. Its
price will fall in a competitive market, forcing its expected return back up to the line in
equilibrium.
The preceding discussion allows us to provide an equation for the security market line
of Figure 11.3. We know that a line can be described algebraically from two points. It is per-
haps easiest to focus on the risk-free rate and asset P, since the risk-free rate has a beta of 0
and P has a beta of 1.
Because we know that the return on any zero-beta asset is RF and the expected return
on asset P is 
, it can easily be shown that
(11.5)
In equation (11.5),
can be thought of as the expected return on any security or portfolio
lying on the security market line.  is the beta of that security or portfolio.
The Market Portfolio and the Single Factor
In the CAPM, the beta of a security measures the security’s responsiveness to move-
ments in the market portfolio. In the one-factor model of the APT, the beta of a security
measures its responsiveness to the factor. We now relate the market portfolio to the sin-
gle factor.
A large, diversified portfolio has no unsystematic risk because the unsystematic risks
of the individual securities are diversified away. Assuming enough securities so that the
market portfolio is fully diversified and assuming that no security has a disproportionate
market share, this portfolio is fully diversified and contains no unsystematic risk.9 In other
words, the market portfolio is perfectly correlated with the single factor, implying that the
market portfolio is really a scaled-up or scaled-down version of the factor. After scaling
properly, we can treat the market portfolio as the factor itself.
The market portfolio, like every security or portfolio, lies on the security market line.
When the market portfolio is the factor, the beta of the market portfolio is 1 by definition.
This is shown in Figure 11.4. (We deleted the securities and the specific expected returns
from Figure 11.3 for clarity: the two graphs are otherwise identical.) With the market port-
folio as the factor, equation (11.5) becomes
where 
is the expected return on the market. This equation shows that the expected re-
turn on any asset,
, is linearly related to the security’s beta. The equation is identical to
that of the CAPM, which we developed in the previous chapter.
• What is the relationship between the one-factor model and the CAPM?
R
RM
R  RF  RM  RF
R
R  RF  RP  RF
RP
Chapter 11
An Alternative View of Risk and Return: The Arbitrage Pricing Theory
297
9This assumption is plausible in the real world. For example, even the market value of General Electric is only 3
percent to 4 percent of the market value of the S&P 500 Index.
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
304
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
11.6 THE CAPITAL-ASSET-PRICING MODEL AND THE
ARBITRAGE PRICING THEORY
The CAPM and the APT are alternative models of risk and return. It is worthwhile to consider
the differences between the two models, both in terms of pedagogy and in terms of application.
Differences in Pedagogy
We feel that the CAPM has at least one strong advantage from the student’s point of view.
The derivation of the CAPM necessarily brings the reader through a discussion of efficient
sets. This treatment—beginning with the case of two risky assets, moving to the case of
many risky assets, and finishing when a riskless asset is added to the many risky ones—is
of great intuitive value. This sort of presentation is not as easily accomplished with the APT.
However, the APT has an offsetting advantage. The model adds factors until the un-
systematic risk of any security is uncorrelated with the unsystematic risk of every other se-
curity. Under this formulation, it is easily shown that (1) unsystematic risk steadily falls
(and ultimately vanishes) as the number of securities in the portfolio increases but (2) the
systematic risks do not decrease. This result was also shown in the CAPM, though the in-
tuition was cloudier because the unsystematic risks could be correlated across securities.
Differences in Application
One advantage of the APT is that it can handle multiple factors while the CAPM ignores
them. Although the bulk of our presentation in this chapter focused on the one-factor model,
a multifactor model is probably more reflective of reality. That is, one must abstract from
many marketwide and industrywide factors before the unsystematic risk of one security be-
comes uncorrelated with the unsystematic risks of other securities. Under this multifactor
version of the APT, the relationship between risk and return can be expressed as:
(11.6)
In this equation, 1 stands for the security’s beta with respect to the first factor, 2 stands
for the security’s beta with respect to the second factor, and so on. For example, if the
first factor is GNP, 1 is the security’s GNP beta. The term 
is the expected return on
R1
R  RF  R1  RF1  R2  RF2  R3  RF3   . . .  RK  RFK
298
Part III
Risk
Expected returns (%)
Beta
Security market line
RM
RF
1
I FIGURE 11.4 A Graph of Beta and Expected Return for Individual
Stocks under the One-Factor Model
The factor is scaled so that it is identical to the market portfolio. The beta of the market portfolio is 1.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
305
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
a security (or portfolio) whose beta with respect to the first factor is 1 and whose beta
with respect to all other factors is zero. Because the market compensates for risk,
(
) will be positive in the normal case.10 (An analogous interpretation can be
given to 
, and so on.)
The equation states that the security’s expected return is related to the security’s factor
betas. The intuition in equation (11.6) is straightforward. Each factor represents risk that
cannot be diversified away. The higher a security’s beta with regard to a particular factor is,
the higher is the risk that the security bears. In a rational world, the expected return on the
security should compensate for this risk. The above equation states that the expected return
is a summation of the risk-free rate plus the compensation for each type of risk that the se-
curity bears.
As an example, consider a study where the factors were monthly growth in industrial
production (IP), change in expected inflation (EI), unanticipated inflation (UI), unantici-
pated change in the risk premium between risky bonds and default-free bonds (URP), and
unanticipated change in the difference between the return on long-term government bonds
and the return on short-term government bonds (UBR).11 Using the period 1958–1984, the
empirical results of the study indicated that the expected monthly return on any stock,
,
can be described as
Suppose a particular stock had the following betas: IP  1.1, EI  2, UI  3,
URP  0.1, UBR  1.6. The expected monthly return on that security would be
Assuming that a firm is unlevered and that one of the firm’s projects has risk equivalent to
that of the firm, this value of 0.0095 (i.e., .95%) can be used as the monthly discount rate
for the project. (Because annual data are often supplied for capital budgeting purposes, the
annual rate of 0.120 [(1.0095)12  1] might be used instead.)
Because many factors appear on the right-hand side of equation (11.5), the APT for-
mulation has the potential to measure expected returns more accurately than does the
CAPM. However, as we mentioned earlier, one cannot easily determine which are the ap-
propriate factors. The factors in the above study were included for reasons of both common
sense and convenience. They were not derived from theory.
By contrast, the use of the market index in the CAPM formulation is implied by the
theory of the previous chapter. We suggested in earlier chapters that the S&P 500 Index mir-
rors stock market movements quite well. Using the Ibbotson-Sinquefield results showing
that the yearly return on the S&P 500 Index was, on average, 9.2 percent greater than the
risk-free rate, the last chapter easily calculated expected returns on different securities from
the CAPM.12
 0.0006  3  0.0072  0.1  0.0052  1.6  0.0095
RS  0.0041  0.0136  1.1  0.0001  2
RS  0.0041  0.0136IP  0.0001EI  0.0006UI  0.0072URP  0.0052UBR
RS
R2, R3
R1  RF
Chapter 11
An Alternative View of Risk and Return: The Arbitrage Pricing Theory
299
10Actually, (
) could be negative in the case where factor i is perceived as a hedge of some sort.
11N. Chen, R. Roll, and S. Ross, “Economic Forces and the Stock Market,” Journal of Business (July 1986).
12Though many researchers assume that surrogates for the market portfolio are easily found, Richard Roll,
“A Critique of the Asset Pricing Theory’s Tests,” Journal of Financial Economics (March 1977), argues
that the absence of a universally acceptable proxy for the market portfolio seriously impairs application of
the theory. After all, the market must include real estate, racehorses, and other assets that are not in the
stock market.
Ri  RF

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
306
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
11.7 EMPIRICAL APPROACHES TO ASSET PRICING
Empirical Models
The CAPM and the APT by no means exhaust the models and techniques used in practice
to measure the expected return on risky assets. Both the CAPM and the APT are risk-based
models. They each measure the risk of a security by its beta(s) on some systematic factor(s),
and they each argue that the expected excess return must be proportional to the beta(s).
While we have seen that this is intuitively appealing and has a strong basis in theory, there
are alternative approaches.
Most of these alternatives can be lumped under the broad heading of parametric or em-
pirical models. The word empirical refers to the fact that these approaches are based less
on some theory of how financial markets work and more on simply looking for regularities
and relations in the history of market data. In these approaches the researcher specifies
some parameters or attributes associated with the securities in question and then examines
the data directly for a relation between these attributes and expected returns. For example,
an extensive amount of research has been done on whether the expected return on a firm is
related to its size. Is it true that small firms have higher average returns than large firms?
Researchers have also examined a variety of accounting measures such as the ratio of the
price of a stock to the accounting earnings, the P/E ratio, and the closely related ratio of the
market value of the stock to the book value of the company, the M/B ratio. Here it might be
argued that companies with low P/E’s or low M/B’s are “undervalued” and can be expected
to have higher returns in the future.
To use the empirical approach to determine the expected return, we would estimate the
following equation:
where 
is the expected return of firm i, and where the k’s are coefficients that we estimate
from stock market data. Notice that this is the same form as equation (11.6) with the firm’s
attributes in place of betas and with the k’s in place of the excess factor portfolio returns.
When tested with data, these parametric approaches seem to do quite well. In fact,
when comparisons are made between using parameters and using betas to predict stock re-
turns, the parameters, such as P/E and M/B, seem to work better. There are a variety of pos-
sible explanations for these results, and the issues have certainly not been settled. Critics of
the empirical approach are skeptical of what they call data mining. The particular parame-
ters that researchers work with are often chosen because they have been shown to be related
to returns. For instance, suppose that you were asked to explain the change in SAT test
scores over the past 40 years in some particular state. Suppose that to do this you searched
through all of the data series you could find. After much searching, you might discover, for
example, that the change in the scores was directly related to the jackrabbit population in
Arizona. We know that any such relation is purely accidental but if you search long enough
and have enough choices, you will find something even if it is not really there. It’s a bit like
staring at clouds. After a while you will see clouds that look like anything you want, clowns,
bears, or whatever, but all you are really doing is data mining.
Needless to say, the researchers on these matters defend their work by arguing that they
have not mined the data and have been very careful to avoid such traps by not snooping at
the data to see what will work.
Of course, as a matter of pure theory, since anyone in the market can easily look up the
P/E ratio of a firm, one would certainly not expect to find that firms with low P/E’s did better
than firms with high P/E’s simply because they were undervalued. In an efficient market, such
public measures of undervaluation would be quickly exploited and would not expect to last.
Ri
Ri  RF  kP/EP/E i  kM/BM/B i  ksizesize P
300
Part III
Risk

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
307
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Perhaps a better explanation for the success of empirical approaches lies in a synthesis
of the risk-based approaches and the empirical methods. In an efficient market, risk and re-
turn are related, hence perhaps the parameters or attributes which appear to be related to re-
turns are also better measures of risk. For example, if we were to find that low P/E firms
outperformed high P/E firms and that this was true even for firms that had the same beta(s),
then we have at least two possible explanations. First, we could simply discard the risk-
based theories as incorrect. Furthermore, we could argue that markets are inefficient and
that buying low P/E stocks provides us with an opportunity to make higher than predicted
returns. Second, we could argue that both views of the world are correct and that the P/E is
really just a better way to measure systematic risk, i.e., beta(s), than directly estimating beta
from the data.
Style Portfolios
In addition to their use as a platform for estimating expected returns, stock attributes are
also widely used as a way of characterizing money management styles. For example, a
portfolio that has a P/E ratio much in excess of the market average might be characterized
as a high P/E or a growth stock portfolio. Similarly, a portfolio made up of stocks with
an average P/E less than that for a market index might be characterized as a low P/E or a
value portfolio.
To evaluate how well a portfolio manager is doing, often their performance is com-
pared with the performance of some basic indexes. For example, the portfolio returns of a
manager who purchases large U.S. stocks might be compared to the performance of the
S&P 500 Index. In such a case the S&P 500 is said to be the benchmark against which their
performance is measured. Similarly, an international manager might be compared against
some common index of international stocks. In choosing an appropriate benchmark, care
should be taken to identify a benchmark that contains only those types of stocks that the
manager targets as representative of his or her style and that are also available to be pur-
chased. A manager who was told not to purchase any stocks in the S&P 500 Index would
not consider it legitimate to be compared against the S&P 500.
Increasingly, too, managers are compared not only against an index, but also against
a peer group of similar managers. The performance of a fund that advertises itself as a
growth fund might be measured against the performance of a large sample of similar
funds. For instance, the performance over some period commonly is assigned to quar-
tiles. The top 25 percent of the funds are said to be in the first quartile, the next 25 per-
cent in the second quartile, the next 25 percent in the third quartile, and the worst per-
forming 25 percent of the funds in the last quartile. If the fund we are examining happens
to have a performance that falls in the second quartile, then we speak of it as a second
quartile manager.
Similarly, we call a fund that purchases low M/B stocks a value fund and would mea-
sure its performance against a sample of similar value funds. These approaches to measur-
ing performance are relatively new, and they are part of an active and exciting effort to re-
fine our ability to identify and use investment skills.
• Empirical models are sometimes called factor models. What is the difference between
a factor as we have used it previously in this chapter and an attribute as we use it in this
section?
• What is data mining and why might it overstate the relation between some stock attrib-
ute and returns?
• What is wrong with measuring the performance of a U.S. growth stock manager against
a benchmark composed of English stocks?
Chapter 11
An Alternative View of Risk and Return: The Arbitrage Pricing Theory
301
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
308
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
11.8 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
The previous chapter developed the capital-asset-pricing model (CAPM). As an alternative, this
chapter develops the arbitrage pricing theory (APT).
1. The APT assumes that stock returns are generated according to factor models. For example,
we might describe a stock’s return as
where I, GNP, and r stand for inflation, gross national product, and the interest rate,
respectively. The three factors FI, FGNP, and Fr represent systematic risk because these
factors affect many securities. The term  is considered unsystematic risk because it is unique
to each individual security.
2. For convenience, we frequently describe a security’s return according to a one-factor model:
3. As securities are added to a portfolio, the unsystematic risks of the individual securities offset
each other. A fully diversified portfolio has no unsystematic risk but still has systematic risk.
This result indicates that diversification can eliminate some, but not all, of the risk of
individual securities.
4. Because of this, the expected return on a stock is positively related to its systematic risk. In a
one-factor model, the systematic risk of a security is simply the beta of the CAPM. Thus, the
implications of the CAPM and the one-factor APT are identical. However, each security has
many risks in a multifactor model. The expected return on a security is positively related to
the beta of the security with each factor.
5. Empirical or parametric models that capture the relations between returns and stock attributes
such as P/E or M/B ratios can be estimated directly from the data without any appeal to
theory. These ratios are also used to measure the style of a portfolio manager and to construct
benchmarks and samples against which they are measured.
KEY TERMS
Benchmark
301
Growth stock portfolios
301
Beta coefficient
289
Market model
291
Empirical model
300
Value portfolios
301
Factor model
290
SUGGESTED READINGS
Complete treatments of the APT can be found in both of the following articles:
Ross, S. A. “Return, Risk and Arbitrage.” In Friend and Bicksler, eds., Risk and Return in
Finance. New York: Heath Lexington, 1974.
Ross, S. A. “The Arbitrage Theory of Asset Pricing.” Journal of Economic Theory (December
1976).
Two less technical discussions of APT are:
Bower, D. H.; R. S. Bower; and D. Logue. “A Primer on Arbitrage Pricing Theory.” Midland
Corporate Finance Journal (Fall 1984).
R  R  F  
R  R  IFI  GNPFGNP  rFr  
302
Part III
Risk

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
309
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Roll, R., and S. Ross. “The Arbitrage Pricing Theory Approach to Strategic Portfolio Planning.”
Financial Analysts Journal (May/June 1984).
The following article describes the idea of style portfolios:
Roll, R. “Style Return Differentials: Illusions, Risk Premia, or Investment Opportunities.” In
Fabozzi (ed.), Handbook of Equity Style Management. New Hope, PA: Frank Fabozzi
Associates, 1995.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Factor Models and Risk
11.1 You own stock in the Lewis-Striden Drug Company. Suppose you had expected the
following events to occur last month.
a. The government would announce that real GNP would have grown 1.2 percent during
the previous quarter. The returns of Lewis-Striden are positively related to real GNP.
b. The government would announce that inflation over the previous quarter was 3.7
percent. The returns of Lewis-Striden are negatively related to inflation.
c. Interest rates would rise 2.5 percentage points. The returns of Lewis-Striden are
negatively related to interest rates.
d. The president of the firm would announce his retirement. The retirement would be
effective six months from the announcement day. The president is well liked: in general
he is considered an asset to the firm.
e. Research data would conclusively prove the efficacy of an experimental drug.
Completion of the efficacy testing means the drug will be on the market soon.
Suppose the following events actually occurred.
a. The government announced that real GNP grew 2. 3 percent during the previous quarter.
b. The government announced that inflation over the previous quarter was 3.7 percent.
c. Interest rates rose 2.1 percentage points.
d. The president of the firm died suddenly of a heart attack.
e. Research results in the efficacy testing were not as strong as expected. The drug must
be tested another six months and the efficacy results must be resubmitted to the FDA.
f. Lab researchers had a breakthrough with another drug.
g. A competitor announced that it will begin distribution and sale of a medicine that will
compete directly with one of Lewis-Striden’s top-selling products.
i. Discuss how each of the actual occurrences affects the returns on your Lewis-
Striden stock.
ii. Which events represent systematic risk?
iii. Which events represent unsystematic risk?
11.2 Suppose a three-factor model is appropriate to describe the returns of a stock. Information
about those three factors is presented in the following chart. Suppose this is the only
information you have concerning the factors.
Beta of
Expected
Actual
Factor
Factor
Value
Value
GNP
0.0042
$4,416
$4,480
Inflation
1.40
3.1%
4.3%
Interest rate
0.67
9.5%
11.8%
a. What is the systematic risk of the stock return?
b. Suppose unexpected bad news about the firm was announced that dampens the returns
by 2.6 percentage points. What is the unsystematic risk of the stock return?
c. Suppose the expected return of the stock is 9.5 percent. What is the total return on this
stock?
Chapter 11
An Alternative View of Risk and Return: The Arbitrage Pricing Theory
303

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
310
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
11.3 Suppose a factor model is appropriate to describe the returns on a stock. Information about
those factors is presented in the following chart.
Beta of
Expected
Actual
Factor
Factor
Value (%)
Value (%)
Growth in GNP
2.04
3.5%
4.8%
Interest rates
1.90
14.0
15.2
Stock return
10.0
a. What is the systematic risk of the stock return?
b. The firm announced that its market share had unexpectedly increased from 23 percent
to 27 percent. Investors know from their past experience that the stock return will
increase by 0.36 percent per an increase of 1 percent in its market share. What is the
unsystematic risk of the stock?
c. What is the total return on this stock?
11.4 The following three stocks are available in the market.
Expected Return (%)
Beta
Stock A
10.5%
1.20
Stock B
13.0
0.98
Stock C
15.7
1.37
Market
14.2
1.00
Assume the market model is valid.
a. Write the market-model equation for each stock.
b. What is the return on a portfolio that is 30-percent stock A, 45-percent stock B, and 25-
percent stock C?
c. Suppose the return on the market is 15 percent and there are no unsystematic surprises
in the returns.
i. What is the return on each stock?
ii. What is the return on the portfolio?
11.5 You are forming an equally weighted portfolio of stocks. There are many stocks that all
have the same beta of 0.84 for factor 1 and the same beta of 1.69 for factor 2. All stocks
also have the same expected return of 11 percent. Assume a two-factor model describes the
returns on each of these stocks.
a. Write the equation of the returns on your portfolio if you place only five stocks in it.
b. Write the equation of the returns on your portfolio if you place in it a very large
number of stocks that all have the same expected returns and the same betas.
The APT
11.6 There are two stock markets, each driven by the same common force F with an expected
value of zero and standard deviation of 10 percent. There are a large number of securities
in each market; thus, you can invest in as many stocks as you wish. Due to restrictions,
however, you can invest in only one of the two markets. The expected return on every
security in both markets is 10 percent.
The returns for each security i in the first market are generated by the relationship
R1i  0.10  1.5F  1i
where 1i is the term that measures the surprises in the returns of stock i in market 1. 
These surprises are normally distributed; their mean is zero. The returns for security j in
the second market are generated by the relationship
R2j  0.10  0.5F  2j
where 2j is the term that measures the surprises in the returns of stock j in market 2. 
304
Part III
Risk

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
311
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
These surprises are normally distributed; their mean is zero. The standard deviation of 1i
and 2j for any two stocks, i and j, is 20 percent.
a. If the correlation between the surprises in the returns of any two stocks in the first
market is zero, and if the correlation between the surprises in the returns of any two
stocks in the second market is zero, in which market would a risk-averse person prefer
to invest? (Note: The correlation between 1i and 1j for any i and j is zero, and the
correlation between 2i and 2j for any i and j is zero.)
b. If the correlation between 1i and 1j in the first market is 0.9 and the correlation
between 2i and 2j in the second market is zero, in which market would a risk-averse
person prefer to invest?
c. If the correlation between 1i and 1j in the first market is zero and the correlation
between 2i and 2j in the second market is 0.5, in which market would a risk-averse
person prefer to invest?
d. In general, what is the relationship between the correlations of the disturbances in the
two markets that would make a risk-averse person equally willing to invest in either of
the two markets?
11.7 Assume that the following market model adequately describes the return-generating
behavior of risky assets.
Rit  i  iRMt  it
where
Rit  The return for the ith asset at time t
and
RMt  The return on a portfolio containing all risky 
assets in some proportion, at time t
RMt and it are statistically independent.
Suppose the following data are true.
Asset
i
E(Ri)
Var(i)
A
0.7
8.41%
1.00%
B
1.2
12.06
1.44
C
1.5
13.95
2.25
Var(RMt)  1.21%
a. Calculate the standard deviation of returns for each asset.
b. Assume short selling is allowed.
i. Calculate the variance of return of three portfolios containing an infinite number of
asset types A, B, or C, respectively.
ii. Assume: RF  3.3% and 
. Which asset will not be held by rational
investors?
iii. What equilibrium state will emerge such that no arbitrage opportunities exist? Why?
11.8 Assume that the returns of individual securities are generated by the following two-factor
model:
Rit  E(Rit)  i1F1t  i2F2t
Rit is the return for security i at time t. F1t and F2t are market factors with zero expectation
and zero covariance. In addition, assume that there is a capital market for four securities,
where each one has the following characteristics:
Security
1
2
E(Rit)
1
1.0
1.5
20%
2
0.5
2.0
20
3
1.0
0.5
10
4
1.5
0.75
10
RM  10.6%
Chapter 11
An Alternative View of Risk and Return: The Arbitrage Pricing Theory
305

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
11. An Alternative View of 
Risk and Return: The 
Arbitrage Pricing Theory
312
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The capital market for these four assets is perfect in the sense that there are no
transactions costs and short sales can take place.
a. Construct a portfolio containing (long or short) securities 1 and 2, with a return that
does not depend on the market factor, F1t, in any way. (Hint: Such a portfolio will have
1  0.) Compute the expected return and 2 coefficient for this portfolio.
b. Following the procedure in (a), construct a portfolio containing securities 3 and 4 with
a return that does not depend on the market factor, F1t. Compute the expected return
and 2 coefficient for this portfolio.
c. Consider a risk-free asset with expected return equal to 5 percent, 1  0, and 2  0.
Describe a possible arbitrage opportunity in such detail that an investor could
implement it.
d. What effect would the existence of these kinds of arbitrage opportunities have on the
capital markets for these securities in the short and long run? Graph your analysis.
306
Part III
Risk

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
313
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Risk, Cost of Capital, and
Capital Budgeting
CHAPTER 12
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
O
ur text has devoted a number of chapters to net present value (NPV) analysis. We
pointed out that a dollar to be received in the future is worth less than a dollar re-
ceived today for two reasons. First, there is the simple time-value-of-money argu-
ment in a riskless world. If you have a dollar today, you can invest it in the bank and receive
more than a dollar by some future date. Second, a risky dollar is worth less than a riskless
dollar. Consider a firm expecting a $1 cash flow. If actuality exceeds expectations (revenues
are especially high or expenses are especially low), perhaps $1.10 or $1.20 will be received.
If actuality falls short of expectations, perhaps only $0.80 or $0.90 will be received. This
risk is unattractive to the typical firm.
Our work on NPV allowed us to value riskless cash flows precisely. That is, we dis-
counted by the riskless interest rate. However, because most real-world cash flows in the
future are risky, business demands a procedure for discounting risky cash flows. This chap-
ter applies the concept of net present value to risky cash flows.
Let us review what previous work in the text has to say about NPV. In earlier chapters
we learned that the basic NPV formula for an investment that generates cash flows (Ct) in
future periods is
For risky projects, expected incremental cash flows 
t are placed in the numerator, and the
NPV formula becomes
In this chapter, we will learn that the discount rate used to determine the NPV of a risky
project can be computed from the CAPM (or APT). For example, if an all-equity firm is seek-
ing to value a risky project, such as renovating a warehouse, the firm will determine the re-
quired return, rS, on the project by using the SML. We call rS the firm’s cost of equity capital.
When firms finance with both debt and equity, the discount rate to use is the project’s
overall cost of capital. The overall cost of capital is a weighted average of the cost of debt
and the cost of equity.
12.1 THE COST OF EQUITY CAPITAL
Whenever a firm has extra cash, it can take one of two actions. On the one hand, it can pay
out the cash immediately as a dividend. On the other hand, the firm can invest extra cash in
a project, paying out the future cash flows of the project as dividends. Which procedure
would the stockholders prefer? If a stockholder can reinvest the dividend in a financial asset
(a stock or bond) with the same risk as that of the project, the stockholders would desire the
NPV  C0  
T
t1
 
Ct
1  r t
C
NPV  C0  
 
T
t1
Ct
1  r t

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
314
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
alternative with the highest expected return. In other words, the project should be undertaken
only if its expected return is greater than that of a financial asset of comparable risk. This is
illustrated in Figure 12.1. This discussion implies a very simple capital-budgeting rule:
The discount rate of a project should be the expected return on a financial asset of comparable risk.
From the firm’s perspective, the expected return is the cost of equity capital. Under the
CAPM, the expected return on the stock is
 RF    (
M  RF)
(12.1)
where RF is the risk-free rate and 
M  RF is the difference between the expected return on
the market portfolio and the riskless rate. This difference is often called the expected excess
market return.1
We now have the tools to estimate a firm’s cost of equity capital. To do this, we need
to know three things:
• The risk-free rate, RF
• The market-risk premium,
M  RF
• The company beta, i
EXAMPLE
Suppose the stock of the Quatram Company, a publisher of college textbooks, has
a beta () of 1.3. The firm is 100-percent equity financed; that is, it has 
no debt. Quatram is considering a number of capital-budgeting projects that will
double its size. Because these new projects are similar to the firm’s existing ones,
the average beta on the new projects is assumed to be equal to Quatram’s existing
beta. The risk-free rate is 7 percent. What is the appropriate discount rate for these
new projects, assuming a market-risk premium of 9.5 percent?
We estimate the cost of equity rS for Quatram as
rS  7%  (9.5%  1.3)
 7%  12.35%
 19.35%
R
R
R
R
308
Part III
Risk
Corporation receives cash.
It can either
Pay dividend
Invest cash in project
Shareholder invests
dividend in financial asset
Stockholders want the firm to invest in a project only if the
expected return on the project is at least as great as that of a
financial asset of comparable risk.
I FIGURE 12.1 Choices of a Firm with Extra Cash
1Of course, we can use the k-factor APT model (Chapter 11) and estimate several beta coefficients. However,
for our purposes it is sufficient to estimate a single beta.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
315
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Two key assumptions were made in this example: (1) The beta risk of the new
projects is the same as the risk of the firm, and (2) The firm is all-equity financed.
Given these assumptions, it follows that the cash flows of the new projects should
be discounted at the 19.35-percent rate.
EXAMPLE
Suppose Alpha Air Freight is an all-equity firm with a beta of 1.21. Further sup-
pose the market-risk premium is 9.5 percent, and the risk-free rate is 5 percent. We
can determine the expected return on the common stock of Alpha Air Freight by
using the SML of equation (12.1). We find that the expected return is 
5%  (1.21  9.5%)  16.495%
Because this is the return that shareholders can expect in the financial markets on
a stock with a  of 1.21, it is the return they expect on Alpha Air Freight’s stock.
Further suppose Alpha is evaluating the following non-mutually exclusive
projects:
Project’s NPV
Project’s
Project’s
When Cash
Project’s
Expected
Internal
Flows Are
Beta
Cash Flows
Rate of
Discounted
Accept
Project
()
Next Year
Return
at 16.495%
or Reject
A
1.21
$140
40%
$20.2
Accept
B
1.21
120
20
3.0
Accept
C
1.21
110
10
5.6
Reject
Each project initially costs $100. All projects are assumed to have the same risk
as the firm as a whole. Because the cost of equity capital is 16.495 percent, proj-
ects in an all-equity firm are discounted at this rate. Projects A and B have posi-
tive NPVs, and C has a negative NPV. Thus, only A and B will be accepted.2 This
is illustrated in Figure 12.2.
Chapter 12
Risk, Cost of Capital, and Capital Budgeting
309
2In addition to the SML, the dividend-valuation model presented earlier in the text can be used to represent the
firm’s cost of equity capital. Using this model, the present value (P) of the firm’s expected dividend payments
can be expressed as
(a)
where rS is the required return of shareholders and the firm’s cost of equity capital. If the dividends are expected
to grow at a constant rate, g, equation (a) reduces to
(b)
Equation (b) can be reformulated as
(c)
We can use equation (c) to estimate rS. Div1/P is the dividend yield expected over the next year. An estimate of
the cost of equity capital is determined from an estimate of Div1/P and g.
The dividend-valuation model is generally considered both less theoretically sound and more difficult to
apply practically than the SML. In addition, J. R. Graham and C. R. Harvey, “The Theory and Practice of
Corporate Finance: Evidence from the Field,” unpublished paper, Duke University (April, 2000) present evidence
that only about 15 percent of real-world companies use the dividend-valuation model, a far smaller percentage than
use the SML approach. Hence, examples in this chapter calculate cost of equity capital using the SML approach.
rS  Div1
P
 g
P  Div1
rS  g
P 
Div1
1  rS 
Div2
1  rS 2  . . . 
DivN
1  rS N  . . . 

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
316
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
12.2 ESTIMATION OF BETA
In the previous section we assumed that the beta of the company was known. Of course,
beta must be estimated in the real world. We pointed out earlier that the beta of a security
is the standardized covariance of a security’s return with the return on the market portfolio.
The formula for security i, first given in Chapter 10, is
Beta of security i 
In words, the beta is the covariance of a security with the market, divided by the variance
of the market. Because we calculated both covariance and variance in earlier chapters, cal-
culating beta involves no new material.
EXAMPLE (ADVANCED)
Suppose we sample the returns on the stock of the General Tool Company and the
returns on the S&P 500 Index for four years. They are tabulated as follows:
General Tool
S&P 500
Company
Index
Year
RG
RM
1
10%
40%
2
3
30
3
20
10
4
15
20
We can calculate beta in six steps.
CovRi, RM
VarRM
 i, M
 2
M
 
310
Part III
Risk
Project’s
internal rate of
return (%)
40
Firm’s risk (beta)
20
16.3
10
5
Accept
region
Reject
region
A
B
C
1.21
(NPV = $20.2)
(NPV = $3.0)
(NPV = $5.6)
SML
I FIGURE 12.2 Using the Security-Market Line to Estimate the Risk-
Adjusted Discount Rate for Risky Projects
The diagonal line represents the relationship between the cost of equity capital and the firm’s beta. An all-equity
firm should accept a project whose internal rate of return is greater than the cost of equity capital, and should
reject a project whose internal rate of return is less than the cost of equity capital. (The above graph assumes
that all projects are as risky as the firm.)

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
317
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
1. Calculate average return on each asset:
Average Return on General Tool:
Average Return on Market Portfolio:
2. For each asset, calculate the deviation of each return from the asset’s average return
determined above. This is presented in columns 3 and 5 of Table 12.1.
3. Multiply the deviation of General Tool’s return by the deviation of the market’s re-
turn. This is presented in column 6. This procedure is analogous to our calculation
of covariance in an earlier chapter. The procedure will be used in the numerator of
the beta calculation.
4. Calculate the squared deviation of the market’s return. This is presented in column
7. This procedure is analogous to our calculation of variance in Chapter 9. This pro-
cedure will be used in the denominator of the beta calculation.
5. Take the sum of column 6 and the sum of column 7. They are 
Sum of Deviation of General Tool Multiplied by Deviation of Market Portfolio:
0.051  0.008  0.026  0.024  0.109
Sum of Squared Deviation of Market Portfolio:
0.090  0.040  0.040  0.090  0.260
 0.40  0.30  0.10  0.20
4
  0.10   10%
 0.10  0.03  0.20  0.15
4
  0.07 7%
Chapter 12
Risk, Cost of Capital, and Capital Budgeting
311
TABLE 12.1 Calculating Beta
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
Market
Deviation
Rate of
Portfolio’s
of General
Return on
General Tool’s
Rate of
Deviation
Tool Multiplied by
Squared
General
Deviation from
Return on
from Average
Deviation
Deviation
Tool
Average Return*
Market
Return†
of Market
of Market
Year
(RG)
(RG 
G)
Portfolio
(RM 
M)
Portfolio
Portfolio
1
0.10
0.17
0.40
0.30
0.051
0.090
(0.10  0.07)
[(0.17)  (0.30)]
[(0.30)  (0.30)]
2
0.03
0.04
0.30
0.20
0.008
0.040
3
0.20
0.13
0.10
0.20
0.026
0.040
4
0.15
0.08
0.20
0.30
0.024
0.090
____
____
_____
_____
Avg  0.07
Avg  0.10
Sum: 0.109
Sum: 0.260
Beta of General Tool: 0.419 
.
*Average return for General Tool is 0.07.
†Average return for market is 0.10.
0.109
0.260
R
R

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
318
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
6. The beta is the sum of column 6 divided by the sum of column 7. This is 
Beta of General Tool:
Real-World Betas
The General Tool Company discussed in the previous example is fictional. It is instructive to
see how betas are determined for actual real-world companies. Figure 12.3 plots monthly re-
turns for four large firms against monthly returns on the Standard & Poor’s (S&P) 500 Index.
As mentioned in Chapter 10, each firm has its own characteristic line. The slope of the charac-
teristic line is beta, as estimated using the technique of Table 12.1. This technique is called re-
gression. Though we have not shown it in the table, one can also determine the intercept (com-
monly called alpha) of the characteristic line by regression. Since a line can be created from its
intercept and slope, the regression allows one to estimate the characteristic line of a firm.
We use five years of monthly data for each plot. While this choice is arbitrary, it is in
line with calculations performed in the real world. Practitioners know that the accuracy of
the beta coefficient is suspect when too few observations are used. Conversely, since firms
may change their industry over time, observations from the distant past are out-of-date.
We stated in Chapter 10 that the average beta across all stocks in an index is 1. Of
course, this need not be true for a subset of the index. For example, of the four securities in
our figure, three have betas above 1 and one has a beta below 1. Since beta is a measure of
the risk of a single security for someone holding a large, diversified portfolio, our results
indicate that Coca-Cola has relatively low risk and Philip Morris has relatively high risk. A
more detailed discussion of the determinants of beta is presented in Section 12.3.
Stability of Beta
We stated above that the beta of a firm is likely to change if the firm changes its industry. It
is also interesting to ask the reverse question: Does the beta of a firm stay the same if its in-
dustry stays the same?
0.419  0.109
0.260
312
Part III
Risk
MEASURING COMPANY BETAS
The basic method of measuring company betas is to estimate:
using t  1, 2, . . . , T observations
Problems
1. Betas may vary over time.
2. The sample size may be inadequate.
3. Betas are influenced by changing financial leverage and business risk.
Solutions
1. Problems 1 and 2 (above) can be moderated by more sophisticated statistical techniques.
2. Problem 3 can be lessened by adjusting for changes in business and financial risk.
3. Look at average beta estimates of several comparable firms in the industry.
CovRit, RMt
VarRMt

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
319
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Take the case of General Electric, a large, diversified firm that for the most part has
stayed in the same industries for many decades. Figure 12.4 plots the returns on General
Electric and the returns on the S&P 500 for four successive five-year periods. As can be seen
from the figure, GE’s beta has increased slightly from the first to the third subperiod while
falling in the last subperiod. However, this movement in beta is probably nothing more than
random variation.3 Thus, for practical purposes, GE’s beta has been approximately constant
over the two decades covered in the figure. While GE is just one company, most analysts ar-
gue that betas are generally stable for firms remaining in the same industry.
However, this is not to say that, as long as a firm stays in the same industry, its beta will
never change. Changes in product line, changes in technology, or changes in the market may
affect a firm’s beta. For example, the deregulation of the airline industry has increased the
betas of airline firms. Furthermore, as we will show in a later section, an increase in the lever-
age of a firm (i.e., the amount of debt in its capital structure) will increase the firm’s beta.
Using an Industry Beta
Our approach of estimating the beta of a company from its own past data may seem com-
monsensical to you. However, it is frequently argued that one can better estimate a firm’s
beta by involving the whole industry. Consider Table 12.2, which shows the betas of some
Chapter 12
Risk, Cost of Capital, and Capital Budgeting
313
0.0%
20.0%
15.0%
10.0%
5.0%
–5.0%
–10.0%
–6.0%
–4.0%
–2.0%
0.0%
2.0%
4.0%
6.0%
8.0%
10.0%
12.0%
Characteristic
line
S&P 500
Coca-Cola
Coca-Cola versus S&P 500—Beta 0.88
0.0%
20.0%
15.0%
10.0%
5.0%
–5.0%
–10.0%
–6.0%
–4.0%
–2.0%
0.0%
2.0%
4.0%
6.0%
8.0%
10.0%
12.0%
S&P 500
–15.0%
Characteristic
line
Procter & Gamble
Procter & Gamble versus S&P 500—Beta 1.01
0.0%
20.0%
15.0%
10.0%
5.0%
–5.0%
–10.0%
–6.0%
–4.0%
–2.0%
0.0%
2.0%
4.0%
6.0%
8.0%
10.0%
12.0%
S&P 500
–15.0%
–20.0%
Characteristic
line
25.0%
Sears, Roebuck
Sears, Roebuck versus S&P 500—Beta 1.29
0.0%
20.0%
15.0%
10.0%
5.0%
–5.0%
–10.0%
–6.0%
–4.0%
–2.0%
0.0%
2.0%
4.0%
6.0%
8.0%
10.0%
12.0%
S&P 500
Philip Morris
–15.0%
–20.0%
–25.0%
–30.0%
Characteristic
line
Philip Morris versus S&P 500—Beta 1.69
I FIGURE 12.3 Plots of Five Years of Monthly Returns on Four Individual Securities
against Five Years of Monthly Returns on the Standard & Poor’s (S&P)
500 Index
3More precisely, one can say that the beta coefficients over the four periods are not statistically different from
each other.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
320
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
314
Part III
Risk
0%
1978–1983
General Electric versus S&P 500—Beta 0.97
20%
15%
10%
5%
5%
10%
S&P 500
15%
5%
10%
15%
15%
10%
5%
0%
General
Electric
0%
1988–1993
General Electric versus S&P 500—Beta 1.15
20%
15%
10%
5%
5%
10%
S&P 500
15%
5%
10%
15%
15%
10%
5%
0%
General
Electric
0%
1993–1998
General Electric versus S&P 500—Beta 0.92
20%
15%
10%
5%
5%
10%
S&P 500
15%
5%
10%
15%
15%
10%
5%
0%
General
Electric
0%
1983–1988
General Electric versus S&P 500—Beta 1.12
20%
15%
10%
5%
5%
10%
S&P 500
15%
5%
10%
15%
15%
10%
5%
0%
General
Electric
I FIGURE 12.4 Plots of Monthly Returns on General Electric and on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index for Four Five-Year Periods
I TABLE 12.2 Betas for Firms in the Software Industry
Company
Beta
Adobe Systems Inc.
1.51
BMC Software Inc.
0.96
Cadence Design
0.98
Cerner Corp.
1.87
Citrix Systems Inc.
1.29
Comshare Inc.
1.22
Informix Corp.
2.09
Int. Lottery & Totalizator Sys. Inc.
3.34
Microsoft Corp.
1.11
Oracle Corp.
1.63
Symantec Corp.
1.82
Veritas Software
1.94
Equally weighted portfolio
1.65

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
321
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
of the more prominent firms in the software industry. The average beta across all of the
firms in the table is 1.65. Imagine a financial executive at Oracle Corp. trying to estimate
the firm’s beta. Because beta-estimation is subject to large random variation in this volatile
industry, the executive may be uncomfortable with the estimate of 1.63. However, the error
in beta-estimation on a single stock is much higher than the error for a portfolio of securi-
ties. Thus, the executive of Oracle may use the industry beta of 1.65 as the estimate of its
own firm’s beta. (As it turns out, the choice is unimportant here, since the industry beta is
so close to that of the firm.)
By contrast, consider Cadence Design. Assuming a risk-free rate of 6 percent and a
risk-premium of 9.5 percent, Cadence might estimate its cost of equity capital as:
6%  0.98  9.5%  15.31%
However, if Cadence believed that the industry beta contained less estimation error, it could
estimate its cost of equity capital as:
6%  1.65  9.5%  21.67%
The difference is substantial here, perhaps presenting a difficult choice for a financial
executive at Cadence.
While there is no formula for selecting the right beta, there is a very simple guideline.
If one believes that the operations of the firm are similar to the operations of the rest of the
industry, one should use the industry beta simply to reduce estimation error.4 However, if
an executive believes that the operations of the firm are fundamentally different from those
in the rest of the industry, the firm’s beta should be used. 
• What is the disadvantage of using too few observations when estimating beta?
• What is the disadvantage of using too many observations when estimating beta?
• What is the disadvantage of using the industry beta as the estimate of the beta of an indi-
vidual firm?
12.3 DETERMINANTS OF BETA
The regression analysis approach in the previous section doesn’t tell us where beta comes
from. The beta of a stock does not come out of thin air. Rather, it is determined by the char-
acteristics of the firm. We consider three factors: the cyclical nature of revenues, operating
leverage, and financial leverage.
Cyclicality of Revenues
The revenues of some firms are quite cyclical. That is, these firms do well in the expansion
phase of the business cycle and do poorly in the contraction phase. Empirical evidence sug-
gests high-tech firms, retailers, and automotive firms fluctuate with the business cycle.
Firms in industries such as utilities, railroads, food, and airlines are less dependent upon the
cycle. Because beta is the standardized covariability of a stock’s return with the market’s
return, it is not surprising that highly cyclical stocks have high betas. For example, Sears’s
beta, as shown in Figure 12.3, is high because its sales are dependent on the market cycle. 
Chapter 12
Risk, Cost of Capital, and Capital Budgeting
315
4As we will see later, an adjustment must be made when the debt level in the industry is different from that of
the firm. However, we ignore this adjustment here, since firms in the software industry generally have little debt.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
322
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
It is worthwhile to point out that cyclicality is not the same as variability. For example,
a movie-making firm has highly variable revenues because hits and flops are not easily pre-
dicted. However, because the revenues of a studio are more dependent on the quality of its
releases than upon the phase of the business cycle, motion-picture companies are not par-
ticularly cyclical. In other words, stocks with high standard deviations need not have high
betas, a point we have stressed before.
Operating Leverage
We distinguished fixed costs from variable costs earlier in the text. At that time, we men-
tioned that fixed costs do not change as quantity changes. Conversely, variable costs in-
crease as the quantity of output rises. This difference between variable and fixed costs al-
lows us to define operating leverage.
EXAMPLE
Consider a firm that can choose either technology A or technology B when mak-
ing a particular product. The relevant differences between the two technologies are
displayed below:
Technology A
Technology B
Fixed cost: $1,000/year
Fixed cost: $2,000/year
Variable cost: $8/unit
Variable cost: $6/unit
Price: $10/unit
Price: $10/unit
Contribution margin: $2 ($10  $8)
Contribution margin: $4 ($10  $6)
Technology A has lower fixed costs and higher variable costs than does tech-
nology B. Perhaps technology A involves less mechanization than does B. Or, the
equipment in A may be leased whereas the equipment in B must be purchased. Al-
ternatively, perhaps technology A involves few employees but many subcontractors,
whereas B involves only highly skilled employees who must be retained in bad
times. Because technology B has both lower variable costs and higher fixed costs,
we say that it has higher operating leverage.5
Figure 12.5 graphs the costs under both technologies. The slope of each total-
cost line represents variable costs under a single technology. The slope of A’s line
is steeper, indicating greater variable costs.
Because the two technologies are used to produce the same products, a unit
price of $10 applies for both cases. We mentioned in an earlier chapter that con-
tribution margin is the difference between price and variable cost. It measures
the incremental profit from one additional unit. Because the contribution margin
in B is greater, its technology is riskier. An unexpected sale increases profit by
$2 under A but increases profit by $4 under B. Similarly, an unexpected sale can-
cellation reduces profit by $2 under A but reduces profit by $4 under B. This is
316
Part III
Risk
5The actual definition of operating leverage is
where EBIT is the earnings before interest and taxes. That is, operating leverage measures the percentage
change in EBIT for a given percentage change in sales or revenues. It can be shown that operating leverage
increases as fixed costs rise and as variable costs fall.
Change in EBIT
EBIT

Sales
Change in sales

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
323
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
illustrated in Figure 12.6. This figure shows the change in earnings before inter-
est and taxes for a given change in volume. The slope of the right-hand graph is
greater, indicating that technology B is riskier.
The cyclicality of a firm’s revenues is a determinant of the firm’s beta. Operating lever-
age magnifies the effect of cyclicality on beta. As mentioned earlier, business risk is gen-
erally defined as the risk of the firm without financial leverage. Business risk depends both
on the responsiveness of the firm’s revenues to the business cycle and on the firm’s operat-
ing leverage.
Although the preceding discussion concerns firms, it applies to projects as well. If one
cannot estimate a project’s beta in another way, one can examine the project’s revenues and
operating leverage. Those projects whose revenues appear strongly cyclical and whose op-
erating leverage appears high are likely to have high betas. Conversely, weak cyclicality and
low operating leverage implies low betas. As mentioned earlier, this approach is unfortu-
nately qualitative in nature. Because start-up projects have little data, quantitative estimates
of beta generally are not feasible.
Chapter 12
Risk, Cost of Capital, and Capital Budgeting
317
Technology A
Technology B
Total
costs
Total
costs
Fixed
costs
Fixed
costs
Volume
Volume
$
$
I FIGURE 12.5 Illustration of Two Different Technologies
Technology A has higher variable costs and lower fixed costs than does technology B. Technology B has higher
operating leverage.
Technology A
 EBIT
 EBIT
 Volume
 Volume
Technology B
I FIGURE 12.6 Illustration of the Effect of a Change in Volume on the
Change in Earnings before Interest and Taxes (EBIT)
Technology B has lower variable costs than A, implying a higher contribution margin. The profits of the firm are
more responsive to changes in volume under technology B than under A.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
324
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Financial Leverage and Beta
As suggested by their names, operating leverage and financial leverage are analogous con-
cepts. Operating leverage refers to the firm’s fixed costs of production. Financial leverage
is the extent to which a firm relies on debt and a levered firm is a firm with some debt in its
capital structure. Because a levered firm must make interest payments regardless of the
firm’s sales, financial leverage refers to the firm’s fixed costs of finance.
Consider our discussion in Section 10.8 concerning the beta of Jelco, Inc. In that ex-
ample, we estimated beta from the returns on Jelco stock. Similarly, we estimated General
Tool’s beta in Section 12.1 from stock returns. Furthermore, the betas in Figures 12.3 and
12.4 from real-world firms were estimated from returns on stock. Thus, in each case, we es-
timated the firm’s stock or equity beta. The beta of the assets of a levered firm is different
from the beta of its equity. As the name suggests, the asset beta is the beta of the assets of
the firm. The asset beta could also be thought of as the beta of the common stock had the
firm been financed only with equity.
Imagine an individual who owns all the firm’s debt and all its equity. In other words, this
individual owns the entire firm. What is the beta of her portfolio of the firm’s debt and equity?
As with any portfolio, the beta of this portfolio is a weighted average of the betas of
the individual items in the portfolio. Hence, we have
Asset 
 Debt 
 Equity
(12.2)
where Equity is the beta of the stock of the levered firm. Notice that the beta of debt is mul-
tiplied by debt/(debt  equity), the percentage of debt in the capital structure. Similarly, the
beta of equity is multiplied by the percentage of equity in the capital structure. Because the
portfolio contains both the debt of the firm and the equity of the firm, the beta of the port-
folio is the asset beta. As we said above, the asset beta can also be viewed as the beta of the
common stock had the firm been all equity.
The beta of debt is very low in practice. If we make the commonplace assumption that
the beta of debt is zero, we have
Asset 
 Equity
(12.3)
Because equity/(debt  equity) must be below 1 for a levered firm, it follows that Asset

 Equity. Rearranging this equation, we have
Equity  Asset
The equity beta will always be greater than the asset beta with financial leverage.6
EXAMPLE
Consider a tree-growing company, Rapid Cedars, Inc., which is currently all eq-
uity and has a beta of 0.8. The firm has decided to move to a capital structure of
one part debt to two parts equity. Because the firm is staying in the same industry,
1  Debt
Equity
Equity
Debt  Equity
Equity
Debt  Equity
Debt
Debt  Equity
318
Part III
Risk
6It can be shown that the relationship between a firm’s asset beta and its equity beta with corporate taxes is
Equity  Asset
See Chapter 17 for more details.
1  1  TC Debt
Equity	

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
325
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
its asset beta should remain at 0.8. However, assuming a zero beta for its debt, its
equity beta would become
Equity  Asset
1.2  0.8 
If the firm had one part debt to one part equity in its capital structure, its equity
beta would be
1.6  0.8 (1  1)
However, as long as it stayed in the same industry, its asset beta would remain at
0.8. The effect of leverage, then, is to increase the equity beta.
• What are determinants of equity betas?
• What is the difference between an asset beta and an equity beta?
12.4 EXTENSIONS OF THE BASIC MODEL
The Firm versus the Project: Vive la Différence
We now assume that the risk of a project differs from that of the firm, while going back to
the all-equity assumption. We began the chapter by pointing out that each project should be
paired with a financial asset of comparable risk. If a project’s beta differs from that of the
firm, the project should be discounted at the rate commensurate with its own beta. This is
a very important point because firms frequently speak of a corporate discount rate. (Hur-
dle rate, cutoff rate, benchmark, and cost of capital are frequently used synonymously.) Un-
less all projects in the corporation are of the same risk, choosing the same discount rate for
all projects is incorrect.
EXAMPLE
D. D. Ronnelley Co., a publishing firm, may accept a project in computer soft-
ware. Noting that computer software companies have high betas, the publishing
firm views the software venture as more risky than the rest of its business. It should
discount the project at a rate commensurate with the risk of software companies.
For example, it might use the average beta of a portfolio of publicly traded soft-
ware firms. Instead, if all projects in D. D. Ronnelley Co. were discounted at the
same rate, a bias would result. The firm would accept too many high-risk projects
(software ventures) and reject too many low-risk projects (books and magazines).
This point is illustrated in Figure 12.7.
The D. D. Ronnelley example assumes that the proposed project has identical risk to that
of the software industry, allowing the industry beta to be used. However, the beta of a new
project may be greater than the beta of existing firms in the same industry because the very
newness of the project likely increases its responsiveness to economy wide movements. For
1  1
2
1  Debt
Equity
Chapter 12
Risk, Cost of Capital, and Capital Budgeting
319
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
326
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
example, a start-up computer venture may fail in a recession while IBM, Compaq, or
Hewlett-Packard will still be around. Conversely, in an economywide expansion, the venture
may grow much faster than the old-line computer firms.
Fortunately, a slight adjustment is all that is needed here. The new venture should be
assigned a somewhat higher beta than that of the industry to reflect added risk. The adjust-
ment is necessarily ad hoc, so no formula can be given. Our experience indicates that this
approach is widespread in practice today.
However, a problem does arise for the rare project constituting its own industry. For ex-
ample, consider the firms providing consumer shopping by television. Today, one can ob-
tain a reasonable estimate for the beta of this industry, since a few of the firms have pub-
licly traded stock. However, when the ventures began in the 1980s, any beta estimate was
suspect. At that time, no one knew whether shopping by TV belonged in the television in-
dustry, the retail industry, or in an entirely new industry.
What beta should be used in the rare case when an industrywide beta is not appropri-
ate? One approach, which considers the determinants of the project’s beta, was treated ear-
lier in this chapter. Unfortunately, that approach is only qualitative in nature.
The Cost of Capital with Debt
Section 12.1 showed how to choose the discount rate when a project is all-equity fi-
nanced. In this section, we discuss an adjustment when the project is financed with both
debt and equity.
Suppose a firm uses both debt and equity to finance its investments. If the firm pays rB
for its debt financing and rS for its equity, what is the overall or average cost of its capital?
The cost of equity is rS, as discussed in earlier sections. The cost of debt is the firm’s bor-
320
Part III
Risk
Software venture (SML)
Firm’s overall
cost of capital
Discount rate
for project
Beta of
project
RF
I FIGURE 12.7 Relationship between the Firm’s Cost of Capital and
the Security Market Line
Use of a firm’s cost of capital in calculations may lead to incorrect capital-budgeting
decisions. Projects with high risk, such as the software venture for D. D. Ronnelley Co.,
should be discounted at a high rate. By using the firm’s cost of equity, the firm is likely to
accept too many high-risk projects.
Projects with low risk should be discounted at a low rate. By using the firm’s cost of
capital, the firm is likely to reject too many low-risk projects.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
327
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
rowing rate, rB. If a firm uses both debt and equity, the cost of capital is a weighted average
of each. This works out to be
The weights in the formula are, respectively, the proportion of total value represented by
the equity
and the proportion of total value represented by debt
This is only natural. If the firm had issued no debt and was therefore an all-equity firm,
its average cost of capital would equal its cost of equity, rS. At the other extreme, if the firm
had issued so much debt that its equity was valueless, it would be an all-debt firm, and its
average cost of capital would be its cost of debt, rB.
Of course, interest is tax deductible at the corporate level, a point to be treated in more
detail in Chapter 15. The after-tax cost of debt is
Cost of debt (after corporate tax)  rB  (1  TC)
where TC is the corporation’s tax rate.
Assembling these results, we get the average cost of capital (after tax) for the firm:
Average cost of capital 
 rS 
 rB  (1  TC)
(12.4)
Because the average cost of capital is a weighting of its cost of equity and its cost of
debt, it is usually referred to as the weighted average cost of capital, rWACC, and from now
on we will use this term.
EXAMPLE
Consider a firm whose debt has a market value of $40 million and whose stock has
a market value of $60 million (3 million outstanding shares of stock, each selling
for $20 per share). The firm pays a 15-percent rate of interest on its new debt and
has a beta of 1.41. The corporate tax rate is 34 percent. (Assume that the SML
holds, that the risk premium on the market is 9.5 percent, and that the current Trea-
sury bill rate is 11 percent.) What is this firm’s rWACC?
To compute the rWACC using equation (12.4), we must know (1) the after-tax
cost of debt, rB  (1  TC), (2) the cost of equity, rS, and (3) the proportions of
debt and equity used by the firm. These three values are computed below.
1. The pretax cost of debt is 15 percent, implying an after-tax cost of 9.9 percent
[15%  (1  0.34)]. 
2. The cost of equity capital is computed by using the SML:
rS  RF    [
M  RF]
 11%  1.41  9.5%
 24.40%
R

B
S  B

S
S  B

B
S  B

S
S  B
S
S  B  rS 
B
S  B  rB
Chapter 12
Risk, Cost of Capital, and Capital Budgeting
321

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
328
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
3. The proportions of debt and equity are computed from the market values of
debt and equity. Because the market value of the firm is $100 million ($40
million  $60 million), the proportions of debt and equity are 40 and 60 per-
cent, respectively.
The cost of equity, rS, is 24.40 percent, and the after-tax cost of debt, rB 
(1  TC), is 9.9 percent. B is $40 million and S is $60 million. Therefore,
rWACC 
 rB  (1  TC) 
 rS

This procedure is presented in chart form next:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
Financing
Market
Cost of Capital
Weighted Cost
Components
Values
Weight
(after corporate tax)
of Capital
Debt
$ 40,000,000
0.40
15%  (1  0.34)  9.9%
3.96%
Equity
60,000,000
0.60
11%  1.41  9.5%  24.40%
14.64
___________
_____
$100,000,000
1.00
18.60%
The weights we used in the previous example were market-value weights.
Market-value weights are more appropriate than book-value weights because the
market values of the securities are closer to the actual dollars that would be re-
ceived from their sale. Actually it is usually useful to think in terms of “target”
market weights. These are the market weights expected to prevail over the life of
the firm or project.
EXAMPLE
Suppose that a firm has both a current and a target debt-equity ratio of 0.6, a cost
of debt of 15.15 percent, and a cost of equity of 20 percent. The corporate tax rate
is 34 percent.
Our first step calls for transforming the debt-to-equity (B/S) ratio to a debt-to-
value ratio. A B/S ratio of 0.6 implies 6 parts debt for 10 parts equity. Since value is 
equal to the sum of the debt plus the equity, the debt-to-value ratio is 
 0.375. 
Similarly, the equity-to-value ratio is 
 0.625. The rWACC will then be
rWACC 
 rS 
 rB  (1  TC)
 .625  20%  .375  15.15%  (.66)  16.25%
Suppose the firm is considering taking on a warehouse renovation costing
$50 million that is expected to yield cost savings of $12 million a year for six

B
S  B

S
S  B
10
6  10
6
6  10

40
100  9.9%  
60
100  24.40%  18.60%
S
B  S
B
B  S
322
Part III
Risk

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
329
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
years. Using the NPV equation and discounting the six years of expected cash
flows from the renovation at the rWACC, we have7
NPV  $50 
 . . . 
 $50  $12 
 $50  (12  3.66)
 $6.07
Should the firm take on the warehouse renovation? The project has a negative
NPV using the firm’s rWACC. This means that the financial markets offer superior
projects in the same risk class (namely, the firm’s risk class). The answer is clear:
The firm should reject the project.
12.5 ESTIMATING INTERNATIONAL PAPER’S COST OF CAPITAL
In the previous section, we calculated the cost of capital in two examples. Now, we will do
the same thing for a real-world company. Table 12.3 lists nine large and well-known firms
in the paper and pulp mills industry. We will calculate the cost of capital for one of them,
International Paper (IP).
From the previous section, we know that there are two steps in the calculation of the
cost of capital. First, we estimate the cost of equity and cost of debt. Second, we determine
the weighted average cost of capital by weighting these two costs appropriately.
A 6
1. 625
$12
1  rWACC 6
$12
1  rWACC
Chapter 12
Risk, Cost of Capital, and Capital Budgeting
323
7This discussion of WACC has been implicitly based on perpetual cash flows. However, an important paper by
J. Miles and R. Ezzel, “The Weighted Average Cost of Capital, Perfect Capital Markets and Project Life: A
Clarification,” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (September 1980), shows that the WACC is
appropriate even when cash flows are not perpetual.
I TABLE 12.3 Betas for Firms in the Pulp and Paper Mills Industry
Company
Beta
Abitibi-Price Inc.
0.74
American Israeli Paper Mills, Ltd.
0.41
Boise Cascade Corp.
0.97
Glatfelter, P. H., Co.
0.57
International Paper Co.
0.83
Kimberly-Clark Corp.
0.90
Mead Corp.
1.14
Union Camp Corp.
0.85
Westvaco Corp.
0.97
Equally weighted portfolio
0.82

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
330
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Cost of Equity and Debt
We will tackle the cost of equity first. We need a beta estimate to determine International
Paper’s cost of equity and Table 12.3 shows the betas of the nine firms in the industry. The
table tells us that IP’s beta is 0.83 and the industry’s average beta is 0.82. Which number
should we use? We argued earlier in the chapter that there is less measurement error with
the industry beta. Therefore, we will work with 0.82, though IP’s beta is so close to the av-
erage of the industry that either number would have been fine.
As discussed in Chapter 9, 9.5 percent is our best estimate of the market’s risk pre-
mium. If the risk-free rate is 6 percent, our best estimate of International Paper’s cost of eq-
uity capital is:
RF    [
M  RF]
 6%  0.82  9.5%
 13.79%
The yield on the company’s debt is about 8 percent, which we will use as the (pretax)
cost of debt capital, rB.
Determining rWACC
Now that we have estimates of both rS, the cost of equity, and rB, the cost of debt, we are
ready to determine the weighted average cost of capital. However, we still need the per-
centages of debt and equity in IP’s capital structure and the tax rate. We find that the ratio
of debt-to-value is 32 percent and the ratio of equity-to-value is 68 percent. The tax rate is
37 percent.8 These inputs allow us to calculate the weighted average cost of capital:
rWACC 
 0.68  13.79%  0.32  8%  (1  .37)
 10.99%
Thus, 10.99 percent is International Paper’s cost of capital. It should be used to dis-
count any project where one believes that the project’s risk is equal to the risk of the firm
as a whole, and the project has the same leverage as the firm as a whole.
12.6 REDUCING THE COST OF CAPITAL
Chapters 9–12 develop the idea that both the expected return on a stock and the cost of
capital of the firm are positively related to risk. Recently, a number of academics have
argued that expected return and cost of capital are negatively related to liquidity as
well.9 In addition, these scholars make the interesting point that, although it is quite dif-
ficult to lower the risk of a firm, it is much easier to increase the liquidity of the firm’s
stock. Therefore, they suggest that a firm can actually lower its cost of capital through
liquidity enhancement. We develop this idea next.

S
S  B  rS  
B
S  B  rB  1  Tc
R
324
Part III
Risk
8These numbers were taken from Value Line Investment Survey. The tax rate includes both federal and local taxes.
9For example, see Y. Amihud and H. Mendelson, “The Liquidity Route to a Lower Cost of Capital,” Journal of
Applied Corporate Finance (Winter 2000) and M. J. Brennan and C. Tamarowski, “Investor Relations,
Liquidity, and Stock Prices,” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance (Winter 2000).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
331
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
What Is Liquidity?
Anyone who owns his or her own home probably thinks of liquidity in terms of the time it
takes to buy or sell the home. For example, condominiums in large metropolitan areas are
generally quite liquid. Particularly in good times, a condominium may sell within days of
being placed on the market. By contrast, single-family homes in suburban areas may take
weeks or months to sell. Special properties such as multimillion dollar mansions may take
longer still.
The concept of liquidity is similar, but not identical, in stocks. Here, we speak of the cost
of buying and selling instead. That is, those stocks that are expensive to trade are considered
less liquid than those that trade cheaply. What do we mean by the cost to trade? We gener-
ally think of three costs here: brokerage fees, the bid-ask spread, and market-impact costs.
Brokerage fees are the easiest to understand, because you must pay a broker to execute
a trade. More difficult is the bid-ask spread. Consider the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE), where all trades on a particular stock must go through the stock’s specialist, who
is physically on the floor of the exchange. If you want to trade 100 shares of XYZ Co., your
broker must get the quote from XYZ’s specialist. Suppose the specialist provides a quote
of 100–1001⁄8. This means that you can buy from the specialist at $1001⁄8 per share and sell
to the specialist at $100 per share. Note that the specialist makes money here, since she buys
from you at $100 and sells to you (or to someone else) at $1001⁄8. The gain to the specialist
is a cost to you, because you are losing 1⁄8 dollar per share over a round-trip transaction (over
a purchase and a subsequent sale).
Finally, we have market-impact costs. Suppose that a trader wants to sell 10,000 shares
instead of just 100 shares. Here, the specialist has to take on extra risk when buying. First,
she has to pay out $100,000 (10,000  $100), cash which may not be easily available to
her. Second, the trader may be selling this large amount because she has special informa-
tion that the stock will fall imminently. The specialist bears the risk of losing a lot of money
on that trade. Consequently, to compensate for these risks, the specialist may not buy at
$100/share but at a lower price. Similarly, the specialist may be willing to sell a large block
of stock only at a price above $1001⁄8. The price drop associated with a large sale and the
price rise associated with a large purchase are the market-impact costs.
Liquidity, Expected Returns, and the Cost of Capital
The cost of trading a nonliquid stock reduces the total return that an investor receives. That
is, if one buys a stock for $100 and sells it later for $105, the gain before trading costs is $5.
If one must pay a dollar of commission when buying and another dollar when selling, the
gain after trading costs is only $3. Both the bid-ask spread and market-impact costs would
reduce this gain still further.
As we will see later, trading costs vary across securities. In the last four chapters, we
have stressed that investors demand a high expected return as compensation when investing
in high risk, e.g., high-beta, stocks. Because the expected return to the investor is the cost of
capital to the firm, the cost of capital is positively related to beta. Now, we are saying the
same thing for trading costs. Investors demand a high expected return when investing in
stocks with high trading costs, i.e., low liquidity. And, this high expected return implies a
high cost of capital to the firm. This idea is illustrated in Figure 12.8.
Liquidity and Adverse Selection
Liquidity varies across stocks, because the factors determining liquidity vary across stocks.
Although there are a number of factors, we focus on just one, adverse selection. As men-
tioned before, the specialist will lose money on a trade if the trader has information that the
Chapter 12
Risk, Cost of Capital, and Capital Budgeting
325

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
332
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
specialist does not have. If you have special information that the stock is worth $110 in the
preceding example, you will want to buy shares at $1001⁄8. The specialist is obligated to sell
to you at this price, which is considerably below the true price of $110. Conversely, if you
know that the stock is worth only $90 and you currently own 100 shares, you will be happy
to sell these shares to the specialist at $100. Again, the specialist loses, since he pays
$100/share for a stock worth only $90. In either of these cases, we say that the specialist
has been picked off, or has been subject to adverse selection.
The specialist must protect himself in some way here. Of course, he can not forbid in-
formed individuals from trading, because he does not know ahead of time who these in-
vestors are. His next best alternative is to widen the bid-ask spread, thereby increasing the
costs of trading to all traders—both informed and uninformed. That is, if the spread is
widened to, say 997⁄8–1001⁄4, each trader pays a round-trip cost of $3⁄8 per share.
The key here is that the spread should be positively related to the ratio of informed to
uninformed traders. That is, informed traders will pick off the specialist and uninformed
traders will not. Thus, informed traders in a stock raise the required return on equity, thereby
increasing the cost of capital.
What the Corporation Can Do
The corporation has an incentive to lower trading costs because—given the preceding 
discussion—a lower cost of capital should result. Amihud and Mendelson identify two gen-
eral strategies for corporations. First, they argue that firms should try to bring in more unin-
formed investors. Stock splits may be a useful tool here. Imagine that a company has 1 mil-
lion shares outstanding with a price per share of $100. Because investors generally buy in
round lots of 100 shares, these investors would need $10,000 ($100  100 shares) for a pur-
chase. A number of small investors might be “priced out” of the stock, although large in-
vestors would not be. Thus, the ratio of large investors to small investors would be high. Be-
cause large investors are generally more likely than small investors to be informed, the ratio
of informed investors to uninformed investors will likely be high.
A 2:1 stock split would give two shares of stock for every one that the investor pre-
viously held. Because every investor would still hold the same proportional interest 
in the firm, each investor would be no better off than before. Thus, it is likely that the
326
Part III
Risk
Cost of
capital
Liquidity
An increase in liquidity, i.e., a reduction in trading
costs, lowers a firm's cost of capital.
I FIGURE 12.8 Liquidity and the Cost of Capital

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
333
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
price per share will fall to $50 from $100. Here, an individual with 100 shares worth
$10,000 ($100  100 shares) finds herself still worth $10,000 ( $50  200 shares)
after the split.
However, a round lot becomes more affordable, thereby bringing more small and un-
informed investors into the firm. Consequently, the adverse selection costs are reduced, al-
lowing the specialist to lower the bid-ask spread. In turn, it is hoped that the expected re-
turn on the stock, and the cost of equity capital, will fall as well. If this happens, the stock
might actually trade at a price slightly above $50.
This idea is a new one and empirical evidence is not yet in. Amihud and Mendelson
themselves point out the possibility that this strategy might backfire, because brokerage
commissions are often higher on lower-priced securities. We must await confirmation of
this intriguing suggestion.
Companies can also attract small investors by facilitating stock purchases through the
Internet. Direct stock purchase plans and dividend reinvestment programs handled online
allow small investors the opportunity to buy securities cheaply. In addition, Amihud and
Mendelson state, “And when these plans are administered over the Internet using web sites
like Stockpower.com, moneypaper.com and Netstockdirect.com, the process is fast and ef-
ficient for both the company and the investor.”10
Secondly, companies can disclose more information. This narrows the gap between un-
informed and informed investors, thereby lowering the cost of capital. Suggestions include
providing greater financial data on corporate segments and more management forecasts. An
interesting study by Coller and Yohn11 concludes that the bid-ask spread is reduced after the
release of these forecasts.
This section would not be complete without a discussion of security analysts. These
analysts are employed by brokerage houses to follow the companies in individual indus-
tries. For example, an analyst for a particular brokerage house might follow all the firms
in, say, the auto industry. This analyst distributes reports and other information to the
clients of the brokerage house. Virtually all brokerage houses have analysts following the
major industries. Again, through dissemination of the information, these analysts narrow
the gap between the informed and the uninformed investors, thereby tending to reduce the
bid-ask spread.
Although all major industries are covered, the smaller firms in these industries are of-
ten ignored, implying a higher bid-ask spread and a higher cost of capital for these firms.
Analysts frequently state that they avoid following companies that release little informa-
tion, pointing out that these companies are more trouble than they are worth. Thus, it be-
hooves companies that are not followed to release as much information as possible to se-
curity analysts in the hopes of attracting their interest. Friendliness toward security analysts
would be very helpful as well. The argument here is not to get the analysts to make buy rec-
ommendations. Rather, it is simply to interest the analysts in following the company,
thereby reducing the information asymmetry between informed and uninformed investors.
• What is liquidity?
• What is the relation between liquidity and expected returns?
• What is adverse selection?
• What can a corporation do to lower its cost of capital?
Chapter 12
Risk, Cost of Capital, and Capital Budgeting
327
10Ibid., p. 19.
11M. Coller and T. Yohn, “Management Forecasts and Information Asymmetry: An Examination of Bid-Ask
Spreads,” Journal of Accounting Research (Fall 1997).
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
334
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
12.7 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Earlier chapters on capital budgeting assumed that projects generate riskless cash flows. The
appropriate discount rate in that case is the riskless interest rate. Of course, most cash flows
from real-world capital-budgeting projects are risky. This chapter discusses the discount rate
when cash flows are risky.
1. A firm with excess cash can either pay a dividend or make a capital expenditure. Because
stockholders can reinvest the dividend in risky financial assets, the expected return on a
capital-budgeting project should be at least as great as the expected return on a financial asset
of comparable risk.
2. The expected return on any asset is dependent upon its beta. Thus, we showed how to
estimate the beta of a stock. The appropriate procedure employs regression analysis on
historical returns.
3. We considered the case of a project whose beta risk was equal to that of the firm. If the firm
is unlevered, the discount rate on the project is equal to
RF    (
M  RF)
where 
M is the expected return on the market portfolio and RF is the risk-free rate. In words,
the discount rate on the project is equal to the CAPM’s estimate of the expected return on the
security.
4. If the project’s beta differs from that of the firm, the discount rate should be based on the
project’s beta. The project’s beta can generally be estimated by determining the average beta
of the project’s industry.
5. The beta of a company is a function of a number of factors. Perhaps the three most
important are
• Cyclicality of revenues
• Operating leverage
• Financial leverage
6. Sometimes one cannot use the average beta of the project’s industry as an estimate of the
beta of the project. For example, a new project may not fall neatly into any existing industry.
In this case, one can estimate the project’s beta by considering the project’s cyclicality of
revenues and its operating leverage. This approach is qualitative in nature.
7. If a firm uses debt, the discount rate to use is the rWACC. In order to calculate rWACC, the cost
of equity and the cost of debt applicable to a project must be estimated. If the project is
similar to the firm, the cost of equity can be estimated using the SML for the firm’s equity.
Conceptually, a dividend-growth model could be used as well, though it is likely to be far
less accurate in practice.
8. A number of academics have argued that expected returns are negatively related to liquidity,
where high liquidity is equivalent to low costs of trading. These scholars have further
suggested that firms can reduce their cost of capital by lowering these trading costs. Practical
suggestions include stock splits, more complete dissemination of information, and more
effective assistance to security analysts.
KEY TERMS
Asset beta
318
Operating leverage
316
Cost of equity
307
Weighted average cost of capital (rWACC)
321
Equity beta
318
R
R
328
Part III
Risk

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
335
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
SUGGESTED READINGS
The following article contains a superb discussion of some of the subtleties of using WACC for
project evaluation:
Miles, J., and R. Ezzel. “The Weighted Average Cost of Capital, Perfect Capital Markets and
Project Life: A Clarification.” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 15
(September 1980).
The following article provides a comprehensive survey of capital budgeting in practice,
including the determination of the cost of capital:
Graham, J. R., and C. R. Harvey, “The Theory and Practice of Corporate Finance: Evidence
from the Field,” unpublished paper, Duke University (April, 2000).
Estimates of the cost of capital under both the capital asset pricing model and the arbitrage
pricing theory are contained in:
Fama, E. F., and K. R. French, “Industry Cost of Capital,” Journal of Financial Economics
(February 1997).
One of the best “how-to” guides is:
Copeland, T.; T. Koller; and J. Murrin. Valuation: Measuring and Managing the Value of
Companies. 2nd ed. New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1995.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Beta and the Cost of Equity
12.1 Furniture Depot, Inc., is an all-equity firm with a beta of 0.95. The market-risk
premium is 9 percent and the risk-free rate is 5 percent. The company must decide
whether or not to undertake the project that requires an immediate investment of 
$1.2 million and will generate annual after-tax cash flows of $340,000 at year-end for
five years. If the project has the same risk as the firm as a whole, should Furniture
Depot undertake the project?
12.2 The returns for the past five years on Douglas stock and the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Index (NYSE) are listed below:
Douglas
NYSE
0.05
0.12
0.05
0.01
0.08
0.06
0.15
0.10
0.10
0.05
a. What are the average returns on Douglas stock and on the market?
b. Compute the beta of Douglas stock.
12.3 Mitsubishi Inc. is a levered firm with a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.25. The beta of common
stock is 1.15, while the beta of debt is 0.3. The market-risk premium is 10 percent and
the risk-free rate is 6 percent. The corporate tax rate is 35 percent. The SML holds for
the company.
a. If a new project of the company has the same risk as the common stock of the firm,
what is the cost of equity on the project?
b. If a new project of the company has the same risk as the overall firm, what is the
weighted average cost of capital on the project?
12.4 The correlation between the returns on Ceramics Craftsman, Inc., and the returns on the
S&P 500 is 0.675. The variance of the returns on Ceramics Craftsman, Inc., is 0.004225,
Chapter 12
Risk, Cost of Capital, and Capital Budgeting
329

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
336
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
and the variance of the returns on the S&P 500 is 0.001467. What is the beta of Ceramics
Craftsman stock?
12.5 The returns from the past 13 quarters on Mercantile Bank Corporation and the market are
listed below.
Mercantile
Market
0.009
0.023
0.051
0.058
0.001
0.020
0.045
0.050
0.085
0.071
0.000
0.012
0.080
0.075
0.020
0.050
0.125
0.120
0.110
0.049
0.100
0.030
0.040
0.028
a. What is the beta of Mercantile Bank Corporation stock?
b. Is Mercantile’s beta higher or lower than the beta of the average stock?
12.6 The following table lists possible rates of return on two risky assets, M and J. The table
also lists their joint probabilities, that is, the probabilities that they will occur
simultaneously.
RM
RJ
Prob(RM, RJ)
0.16
0.16
0.10
0.16
0.18
0.06
0.16
0.22
0.04
0.18
0.18
0.12
0.18
0.20
0.36
0.18
0.22
0.12
0.20
0.18
0.02
0.20
0.20
0.04
0.20
0.22
0.04
0.20
0.24
0.10
a. List the possible values for RM and the probabilities that correspond to those values.
b. Compute the following items for RM.
i. Expected value
ii. Variance
iii. Standard deviation
c. List the possible values for RJ and the probabilities that correspond to those values.
d. Compute the following items for RJ.
i. Expected value
ii. Variance
iii. Standard deviation
e. Calculate the covariance and correlation coefficient of RM and RJ.
f. Assume M is the market portfolio. Calculate the beta coefficient for security J.
12.7 If you use the stock beta and the security market line to compute the discount rate for a
project, what assumptions are you implicitly making?
330
Part III
Risk

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
337
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
12.8 Pacific Cosmetics is evaluating a project to produce a perfume line. Pacific currently
produces no body-scent products. Pacific Cosmetics is an all-equity firm.
a. Should Pacific Cosmetics use its stock beta to evaluate the project?
b. How should Pacific Cosmetics compute the beta to evaluate the project?
12.9 The following table lists possible rates of return on Compton Technology’s stock and debt,
and on the market portfolio. The corporate tax rate is 35 percent. The corresponding
probabilities are also listed.
Return on
Return on
Return on
State
Probability
Equity (%)
Debt (%)
the Market (%)
1
0.1
3%
8%
5%
2
0.3
8
8
10
3
0.4
20
10
15
4
0.2
15
10
20
a. What is the beta of Compton Technology debt?
b. What is the beta of Compton Technology stock?
c. If the debt-to-equity ratio of Compton Technology is 0.5, what is the asset beta of
Compton Technology?
12.10 Is the discount rate for the projects of a levered firm higher or lower than the cost of
equity computed using the security market line? Why? (Consider only projects that have
similar risk to that of the firm.)
12.11 What factors determine the beta of a stock? Define and describe each.
Weighted Average Cost of Capital
12.12 The equity beta for Adobe Online Company is 1.29. Adobe Online has a debt-to-equity
ratio of 1.0. The expected return on the market is 13 percent. The risk-free rate is 
7 percent. The cost of debt capital is 7 percent. The corporate tax rate is 35 percent.
a. What is Adobe Online’s cost of equity?
b. What is Adobe Online’s weighted average cost of capital?
12.13 Calculate the weighted average cost of capital for the Luxury Porcelain Company. The
book value of Luxury’s outstanding debt is $60 million. Currently, the debt is trading at
120 percent of book value and is priced to yield 12 percent. The 5 million outstanding
shares of Luxury stock are selling for $20 per share. The required return on Luxury stock
is 18 percent. The tax rate is 25 percent.
12.14 First Data Co. has 20 million shares of common stock outstanding that are currently being
sold for $25 per share. The firm’s debt is publicly traded at 95 percent of its face value of
$180 million. The cost of debt is 10 percent and the cost of equity is 20 percent. What is the
weighted average cost of capital for the firm? Assume the corporate tax rate is 40 percent.
12.15 Calgary Industries, Inc., is considering a new project that costs $25 million. The project
will generate after-tax (year-end) cash flows of $7 million for five years. The firm has 
a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.75. The cost of equity is 15 percent and the cost of debt is 
9 percent. The corporate tax rate is 35 percent. It appears that the project has the same
risk as that of the overall firm. Should Calgary take on the project?
12.16 Suppose Garageband.com has a 28 percent cost of equity capital and a 10 percent before-
tax cost of debt capital. The firm’s debt-to-equity ratio is 1.0. Garageband is interested in
investing in a telecomm project that will cost $1,000,000 and will provide $600,000
pretax annual earnings for 5 years. Given the project is an extension of its core business,
the project risk is similar to the overall risk of the firm. What is the net present value of
this project if Garageband’s tax rate is 35%?
Chapter 12
Risk, Cost of Capital, and Capital Budgeting
331

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
338
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
MINICASE: ALLIEDPRODUCTS
AlliedProducts, Inc., has recently won approval from the Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) for its Enhanced Ground Proximity Warning System (GPWS). This system is de-
signed to give airplane pilots additional warning of approaching ground danger and thus
help prevent crashes. AlliedProducts has spent $10 million in research and development the
past four years developing GPWS. The GPWS will be put on the market beginning this year
and AlliedProducts expects it to stay on the market for a total of five years.
As a financial analyst specializing in the aerospace industry for USC Pension &
Investment, Inc., you are asked by your managing partner, Mr. Adam Smith, to evaluate the
potential of this new GPWS project.
Initially, AlliedProducts will need to acquire $42 million in production equipment to
make the GPWS. The equipment is expected to have a seven-year useful life. This equip-
ment can be sold for $12 million at the end of five years. AlliedProducts intends to sell two
different versions of the GPWS:
1. New GPWS—intended for installation in new aircraft. The selling price is $70,000 per
system and the variable cost of production is $50,000 per system. (Assume cash flows
occur at year-end.)
2. Upgrade GPWS—intended for installation on existing aircraft with an older version
ground proximity radar in place. The selling price of the Upgrade system is $35,000 per
system and the variable cost to produce it is $22,000 per system.
AlliedProducts intends to raise prices at the same rate as inflation. Variable costs will
also increase with inflation. In addition, the GPWS project will also incur $3 million in mar-
keting and general administration costs the first year (expected to increase at the same rate
as inflation).
AlliedProducts’ corporate tax rate is 40 percent. Assume that the equity beta listed in
Value Line Investment Survey (the latest edition) is the best estimate of AlliedProducts’beta.
A five-year U.S. Treasury Bond has a rate of 6.20 percent and the S&P 500 recent years’
historical average excess return (i.e., the market return less the Treasury bond rate) is 8.3
percent. Annual inflation is expected to remain constant at 3 percent. Further, suppose
AlliedProducts’ cost of debt is 6.2 percent and (although somewhat unrealistic) its debt-to-
equity ratio is 50 percent and will remain at 50 percent for at least five years.
Commercial Aircraft Market
The state of the economy has a major impact on the airplane manufacturing industry. Air-
line industry analysts have the following production expectations, depending on the annual
state of the economy for the next five years:
332
Part III
Risk
I TABLE 12.4
Annual
State of Economy
Probability of State
New Aircraft (year 1)
Growth
Strong growth
.15
350
.15
Moderate growth
.45
250
.10
Mild recession
.30
150
.06
Severe recession
.10
50
.03

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
339
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
While probabilities of each state of the economy will not change during the next five
years, airplane production for each category will increase, as shown in Table 12.4, each year
after year 1. The FAA requires that these planes have new ground proximity warning sys-
tems, of which there are a number of manufacturers besides AlliedProducts.
AlliedProducts estimates that there are approximately 12,500 existing aircraft that
comprise the market for its GPWS Upgrade package. Due to FAA regulations, all ex-
isting aircraft will be required to get an upgraded ground proximity warning system
within the next five years, again, not necessarily from AlliedProducts. AlliedProducts
believes the upgrades of the existing aircraft fleet will be spread evenly over the five
years (the time value of money would suggest manufacturers defer purchasing up-
grades until the fifth year; however, consumer demand for the additional safety will in-
duce earlier upgrades).
AlliedProducts uses the MACRS depreciation schedule (seven-year property class).
The immediate initial working capital requirement is $2 million and thereafter the net work-
ing capital requirements will be 5 percent of sales.
AlliedProducts has a number of competitors both in the new GPWS and upgrade
GPWS markets but expects to dominate the market with a 45 percent share.
Assignment:
First, use the CAPM to determine the appropriate discount rate for this product. Then, use
computer spreadsheets such as Excel or Lotus 1-2-3 to analyze the project.
Will the GPWS project improve the wealth of AlliedProducts’ shareholders, such as
your firm—USC Pension & Investment, Inc.?
Economic Value Added and the 
Measurement of Financial Performance
Chapter 12 shows how to calculate the appropriate discount rate for capital budgeting and
other valuation problems. We now consider the measurement of financial performance. We
introduce the concept of economic value added, which uses the same discount rate devel-
oped for capital budgeting. We begin with a simple example.
Many years ago, Henry Bodenheimer started Bodie’s Blimps, one of the largest high-
speed blimp manufacturers. Because growth was so rapid, Henry put most of his effort into
capital budgeting. His approach to capital budgeting paralleled that of Chapter 12. He fore-
casted cash flows for various projects and discounted them at the cost of capital appropri-
ate to the beta of the blimp business. However, these projects have grown rapidly, in some
cases becoming whole divisions. He now needs to evaluate the performance of these divi-
sions in order to reward his division managers. How does he perform the appropriate
analysis?
Henry is aware that capital budgeting and performance measurement are essen-
tially mirror images of each other. Capital budgeting is forward-looking by nature be-
cause one must estimate future cash flows to value a project. By contrast, performance
measurement is backward-looking. As Henry stated to a group of his executives,
“Capital budgeting is like looking through the windshield while driving a car. You
need to know what lies further down the road to calculate a net present value.
Performance measurement is like looking into the rearview mirror. You find out where
you have been.”
Chapter 12
Risk, Cost of Capital, and Capital Budgeting
333

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
340
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Henry first measured the performance of his various divisions by return on assets
(ROA), an approach, which we treated in the appendix to Chapter 2. For example, if a di-
vision had earnings after tax of $1,000 and had assets of $10,000, the ROA would be12
 10%.
He calculated the ROA ratio for each of his divisions, paying a bonus to each of his di-
vision managers based on the size of that division’s ROA. However, while ROA was gen-
erally effective in motivating his managers, there were a number of situations where it ap-
peared that ROA was counterproductive.
For example, Henry always believed that Sharon Smith, head of the supersonic divi-
sion, was his best manager. The ROA of Smith’s division was generally in the high dou-
ble digits, but the best estimate of the weighted average cost of capital for the division was
only 20%. Furthermore, the division had been growing rapidly. However, as soon as Henry
paid bonuses based on ROA, the division stopped growing. At that time, Smith’s division
had after tax earnings of $2,000,000 on an asset base of $2,000,000, for an ROA of 100%
($2 million/$2 million).
Henry found out why the growth stopped when he suggested a project to Smith that
would earn $1,000,000 per year on an investment of $2,000,000. This was clearly an at-
tractive project with an ROA of 50% ($1 million/$2 million). He thought that Smith would
jump at the chance to place his project into her division, because the ROA of the project
was much higher than the cost of capital of 20%. However, Smith did everything she could
to kill the project. And, as Henry later figured out, Smith was rational to do so. Smith must
have realized that if the project were accepted, the division’s ROA would become
 75%
Thus, the ROA of Smith’s division would fall from 100% to 75% if the project were
accepted, with Smith’s bonus falling in tandem.
Henry was later exposed to the economic-value-added (EVA) approach,13 which seems
to obviate this particular problem. The formula for EVA is
[ROA  Weighted average cost of capital]  Total capital
Without the new project, the EVA of Smith’s division would be:
[100% – 20%]  $2,000,000  $1,600,000
This is an annual number. That is, the division would bring in $1.6 million above and be-
yond the cost of capital to the firm each year.
With the new project included, the EVA jumps to
[75%  20%]  $4,000,000  $2,200,000
If Sharon Smith knew that her bonus was based on EVA, she would now have an in-
centive to accept, not reject, the project. Although ROA appears in the EVA formula, EVA
differs substantially from ROA. The big difference is that ROA is a percentage number and
$2,000,000  $1,000,000
$2,000,000  $2,000,000
$1,000
$10,000
334
Part III
Risk
12Earnings after tax is EBIT (1  Tc) where EBIT is earnings before interest and taxes and Tc is the tax rate.
13Stern Stewart & Company have a copyright on the terms economic value added and EVA. Details on the Stern
Steward & Company EVA can be found in J. M. Stern, G. B. Stewart, and D. A. Chew, “The EVA Financial
Management System,” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance (Summer 1999).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
341
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EVA is a dollar value. In the preceding example, EVA increased when the new project was
added even though the ROA actually decreased. In this situation, EVA correctly incorpo-
rates the fact that a high return on a large division may be better than a very high return on
a smaller division. The situation here is quite similar to the scale problem in capital budg-
eting that we discussed in Section 6.6.
Further understanding of EVA can be achieved by rewriting the EVA formula. Because
ROA  total capital is equal to earnings after tax, we can write the EVA formula as:
Earnings after tax  Weighted average cost of capital  Total capital
Thus, EVA can simply be viewed as earnings after capital costs. Although accountants
subtract many costs (including depreciation) to get the earnings number shown in financial
reports, they do not subtract out capital costs. One can see the logic of accountants, because
the cost of capital is very subjective. By contrast, costs such as COGS (cost of goods sold),
SGA (sales, general and administration), and even depreciation can be measured more ob-
jectively. However, even if the cost of capital is difficult to estimate, it is hard to justify ig-
noring it completely. After all, this textbook argues that the cost of capital is a necessary in-
put to capital budgeting. Shouldn’t it also be a necessary input to performance measurement?
This example argues that EVA can increase investment for those firms that are currently
underinvesting. However, there are many firms in the reverse situation; the managers are so
focused on increasing earnings that they take on projects for which the profits do not justify
the capital outlays. These managers either are unaware of capital costs or, knowing these
costs, choose to ignore them. Because the cost of capital is right in the middle of the EVA
formula, managers will not easily ignore these costs when evaluated on an EVA system.
One other advantage of EVA is that it is so stark; the number is either positive or it is
negative. Plenty of divisions have negative EVAs for a number of years. Because these di-
visions are destroying more value than they are creating, a strong point can be made for liq-
uidating these divisions. Although managers are generally emotionally opposed to this type
of action, EVA analysis makes liquidation harder to ignore.
The preceding discussion puts EVA in a very positive light. However, one can certainly
find much to criticize with EVA as well. We now focus on two well-known problems with
EVA. First, the preceding example uses EVA for performance measurement, where we be-
lieve it properly belongs. To us, EVA seems a clear improvement over ROA and other fi-
nancial ratios. However, EVA has little to offer for capital budgeting because EVA focuses
only on current earnings. By contrast, net-present-value analysis uses projections of all fu-
ture cash flows, where the cash flows will generally differ from year to year. Thus, as far as
capital budgeting is concerned, NPV analysis has a richness that EVA does not have.
Although supporters may argue that EVA correctly incorporates the weighted average cost
of capital, one must remember that the discount rate in NPV analysis is the same weighted
average cost of capital. That is, both approaches take the cost of equity capital based on beta
and combine it with the cost of debt to get an estimate of this weighted average.
A second problem with EVA is that it may increase the shortsightedness of managers.
Under EVA, a manager will be well rewarded today if earnings are high today. Future losses
may not harm the manager, because there is a good chance that she will be promoted or have
left the firm by then. Thus, the manager has an incentive to run a division with more regard
for short-term than long-term value. By raising prices or cutting quality, the manager may
increase current profits (and, therefore, current EVA). However, to the extent that customer
satisfaction is reduced, future profits (and therefore future EVA) are likely to fall. However,
one should not be too harsh with EVA here, because the same problem occurs with ROA.
A manager who raises prices or cuts quality will increase current ROA at the expense of fu-
ture ROA. The problem, then, is not EVA per se but with the use of accounting numbers in
Chapter 12
Risk, Cost of Capital, and Capital Budgeting
335

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
III. Risk
12. Risk, Cost of Capital, 
and Capital Budgeting
342
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
general. Because stockholders want the discounted present value of all cash flows to be
maximized, managers with bonuses based on some function of current profits or current
cash flows are likely to behave in a shortsighted way.
EXAMPLE
Assume the following figures for the International Trade Corporation
EBIT  $2.5 billion
Tc  .4
rWACC  11%
Total capital contributed  Total debt  Equity
 $10 billion  $10 billion
 $20 billion
Now we can calculate International Trade’s EVA:
EVA  EBIT (1  Tc)  rWACC  Total capital
 ($2.5 billion  .6)  (.11  $20 billion)
 $1.5 billion  $2.2 billion
 $700 million
336
Part III
Risk

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
Introduction
343
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Capital Structure and
Dividend Policy
PART IV
13 Corporate-Financing Decisions and Efficient Capital Markets
339
14 Long-Term Financing: An Introduction
371
15 Capital Structure: Basic Concepts
390
16 Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
422
17 Valuation and Capital Budgeting for the Levered Firm
468
18 Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
495
P
ART II discussed the capital budgeting decisions of the firm. We argued that the ob-
jective of the firm should be to create value from its capital budgeting decisions. To
do this the firm must find investments with a positive net present value. In Part IV we
concentrate on financing decisions. As with capital budgeting decisions, the firm seeks
to create value with its financing decisions. To do this the firm must find positive NPV
financing arrangements. However, financial markets do not provide as many opportuni-
ties for positive NPV transactions as do nonfinancial markets. We show that the sources
of NPV in financing are taxes, bankruptcy costs, and agency costs.
Chapter 13 introduces the concept of efficient markets, where current market prices
reflect available information. We describe several forms of efficiency: the weak form,
the semistrong form, and the strong form. The chapter offers a number of important les-
sons for the corporate financial manager in understanding the logic behind efficient fi-
nancial markets.
In Chapter 14 we describe the basic types of long-term financing: common stock,
preferred stock, and bonds. We then briefly analyze the major trends and patterns of
long-term financing.
We consider the firm’s overall capital-structure decision in Chapters 15 and 16. In
general, a firm can choose any capital structure it desires: common stocks, bonds, pre-
ferred stocks, and so on. How should a firm choose its capital structure? Changing the
capital structure of the firm changes the way the firm pays out its cash flows. Firms that
borrow pay lower taxes than firms that do not. Because of corporate taxes, the value of
a firm that borrows may be higher than the value of one that does not. However, with
costly bankruptcy, a firm that borrows may have lower value. The combined effects of
taxes and bankruptcy costs can produce an optimal capital structure.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
Introduction
344
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
338
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
Chapter 17 discusses capital budgeting for firms with some debt in their capital struc-
tures. It extends some of the material of Chapter 12. This chapter presents three alternative
valuation methods: the weighted-average-cost-of-capital approach, the flows-to-equity ap-
proach, and the adjusted-present-value approach.
We discuss dividend policy in Chapter 18. It seems surprising that much empirical ev-
idence and logic suggest that dividend policy does not matter. There are some good reasons
for firms to pay low levels of dividends: lower taxes and costs of issuing new equity. How-
ever, there are also some good reasons to pay high levels of dividends: to reduce agency
costs and to satisfy low-tax, high-income clienteles.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
345
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Corporate-Financing
Decisions and Efficient
Capital Markets
CHAPTER 13
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
T
he section on value concentrated on the firm’s capital budgeting decisions—the
left-hand side of the balance sheet of the firm. This chapter begins our analysis of
corporate-financing decisions—the right-hand side of the balance sheet. We take
the firm’s capital budgeting decision as fixed in this section of the text.
The point of this chapter is to introduce the concept of efficient capital markets and its
implications for corporate finance. Efficient capital markets are those in which current mar-
ket prices reflect available information. This means that current market prices reflect the
underlying present value of securities, and there is no way to make unusual or excess prof-
its by using the available information.
This concept has profound implications for financial managers, because market effi-
ciency eliminates many value-enhancing strategies of firms. In particular, we show that in
an efficient market
1. Financial managers cannot time issues of bonds and stocks.
2. The issuance of additional stock should not depress the stock’s market price.
3. Stock and bond prices should not be affected by a firm’s choice of accounting method.
Ultimately, whether or not capital markets are efficient is an empirical question. We will de-
scribe several of the important studies that have been carried out to examine efficient markets.
13.1 CAN FINANCING DECISIONS CREATE VALUE?
Earlier parts of the book show how to evaluate projects according to the net present value
criterion. The real world is a competitive one where projects with positive net present value
are not always easy to come by. However, through hard work or through good fortune, a
firm can identify winning projects. For example, to create value from capital budgeting de-
cisions, the firm is likely to
1. Locate an unsatisfied demand for a particular product or service.
2. Create a barrier to make it more difficult for other firms to compete.
3. Produce products or services at lower cost than the competition.
4. Be the first to develop a new product.
The next five chapters concern financing decisions. Typical financing decisions include
how much debt and equity to sell, what types of debt and equity to sell, and when to sell
debt and equity. Just as the net present value criterion was used to evaluate capital budget-
ing projects, we now want to use the same criterion to evaluate financing decisions.
Though the procedure for evaluating financing decisions is identical to the procedure
for evaluating projects, the results are different. It turns out that the typical firm has many
more capital-expenditure opportunities with positive net present values than financing

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
346
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
opportunities with positive net present values. In fact, we later show that some plausible
financial models imply that no valuable financial opportunities exist at all.
Though this dearth of profitable financing opportunities will be examined in detail
later, a few remarks are in order now. We maintain that there are basically three ways to cre-
ate valuable financing opportunities:
1. Fool Investors. Assume that a firm can raise capital either by issuing stock or by is-
suing a more complex security, say, a combination of stock and warrants. Suppose that, in
truth, 100 shares of stock are worth the same as 50 units of our complex security. If investors
have a misguided, overly optimistic view of the complex security, perhaps the 50 units can
be sold for more than the 100 shares of stock can be. Clearly this complex security provides
a valuable financing opportunity because the firm is getting more than fair value for it.
Financial managers try to package securities to receive the greatest value. A cynic might
view this as attempting to fool investors. However, empirical evidence suggests that investors
cannot easily be fooled. Thus, one must be skeptical that value can easily be created here.
The theory of efficient capital markets expresses this idea. In its extreme form, it says
that all securities are appropriately priced at all times, implying that the market as a whole
is very shrewd indeed. Thus, corporate managers should not attempt to create value by fool-
ing investors. Instead, managers must create value in other ways.
2. Reduce Costs or Increase Subsidies. We show later in the book that certain forms of
financing have greater tax advantages than other forms. Clearly, a firm packaging securities
to minimize taxes can increase firm value. In addition, any financing technique involves
other costs. For example, investment bankers, lawyers, and accountants must be paid. A firm
packaging securities to minimize these costs can also increase its value. Finally, any financ-
ing vehicle that provides subsidies is valuable. This last possibility is illustrated below.
EXAMPLE
Suppose Vermont Electronics Company is thinking about relocating its plant to
Mexico where labor costs are lower. In the hope that it can stay in Vermont, the
company has submitted an application to the State of Vermont to issue $2 million
in five-year, tax-exempt industrial bonds. The coupon rate on industrial revenue
bonds in Vermont is currently 5 percent. This is an attractive rate because the nor-
mal cost of debt capital for Vermont Electronics Company is 10 percent. What is
the NPV of this potential financing transaction?
If the application is accepted and the industrial revenue bonds are issued by
the Vermont Electronics Company, the NPV (ignoring corporate taxes) is
 $2,000,000  $1,620,921
 $379,079
This transaction has a positive NPV. The Vermont Electronics Company obtains
subsidized financing where the amount of the subsidy is $379,079.
3. Create a New Security. There has been a surge in financial innovation in recent years.
For example, in a speech on financial innovation, Nobel laureate Merton Miller asked the
rhetorical question, “Can any twenty-year period in recorded history have witnessed even
a tenth as much new development? Where corporations once issued only straight debt and
straight common stock, they now issue zero-coupon bonds, adjustable-rate notes, floating-
 $100,000
1.1 4
 $2,100,000
1.1 5 	
NPV  $2,000,000  
$100,000
1.1
 $100,000
1.1 2
 $100,000
1.1 3
340
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
347
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
rate notes, putable bonds, credit-enhanced debt securities, receivable-backed securities,
adjusted-rate preferred stock, convertible adjustable preferred stock, auction-rate pre-
ferred stock, single-point adjustable-rate stock, convertible exchangeable preferred
stock, adjustable-rate convertible debt, zero-coupon convertible debt, debt with manda-
tory common-stock-purchase contracts—to name just a few!”1 And, financial innovation
has occurred even more rapidly in the years following Miller’s speech.
Though the advantage of each instrument is different, one general theme is that these
new securities cannot easily be duplicated by combinations of existing securities. Thus, a
previously unsatisfied clientele may pay extra for a specialized security catering to its
needs. For example, putable bonds let the purchaser sell the bond at a fixed price back to
the firm. This innovation creates a price floor, allowing the investor to reduce his or her
downside risk. Perhaps risk-averse investors or investors with little knowledge of the bond
market would find this feature particularly attractive.
Corporations gain from developing unique securities by issuing these securities at high
prices. However, we believe that the value captured by the innovator is small in the long run
because the innovator usually cannot patent or copyright his idea. Soon many firms are is-
suing securities of the same kind, forcing prices down as a result.2
This brief introduction sets the stage for the next five chapters of the book. The rest of
this chapter examines the efficient-capital-markets hypothesis. We show that if capital mar-
kets are efficient, corporate managers cannot create value by fooling investors. This is quite
important, because managers must create value in other, perhaps more difficult, ways. The
following four chapters concern the costs and subsidies of various forms of financing. A
discussion of new financing instruments is postponed until later chapters of the text.
• List three ways financing decisions can create value.
13.2 A DESCRIPTION OF EFFICIENT CAPITAL MARKETS
An efficient capital market is one in which stock prices fully reflect available information.
To illustrate how an efficient market works, suppose the F-stop Camera Corporation (FCC)
is attempting to develop a camera that will double the speed of the auto-focusing system
now available. FCC believes this research has positive NPV. 
Chapter 13
Corporate-Financing Decisions and Efficient Capital Markets
341
1M. Miller, “Financial Innovation: The Last Twenty Years and the Next,” Journal of Financial and Quantitative
Analysis (December 1986). However, Peter Tufano, “Securities Innovations: A Historical and Functional
Perspective,” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance (Winter 1995), shows that many securities commonly
believed to have been invented in the 1970s and 1980s can be traced as far back as the 1830s.
2Most financial innovations originally come from investment banks and are then sold to firms. Peter Tufano,
“Financial Innovation and First-Mover Advantages,” Journal of Financial Economics 25 (1990), pp. 213–40,
looked at 58 financial innovations (including original-issue deep-discount bonds) to examine how well
investment banks are compensated for developing new financial products. He finds investment banks underwrite
significantly more public offerings of the products they create. His study does not directly address the question
of whether investment banks or corporations obtain most of the benefits of new financial products. However, it
is clear that investment banks benefit substantially from creating new products.
Raj Varma and Donald Chambers, “The Role of Financial Innovation in Raising Capital,” Journal of
Financial Economics 26 (1990), pp. 289–98, look at how firms have benefited from issuing original-issue deep-
discount bonds after TEFRA. They report no gains.
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
348
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Now consider a share of stock in FCC. What determines the willingness of investors to
hold shares of FCC at a particular price? One important factor is the probability that FCC
will be the company to develop the new auto-focusing system first. In an efficient market
we would expect the price of the shares of FCC to increase if this probability increases.
Suppose a well-known engineer is hired by FCC to help develop the new auto-
focusing system. In an efficient market, what will happen to FCC’s share price when this
is announced? If the well-known scientist is paid a salary that fully reflects his or her
contribution to the firm, the price of the stock will not necessarily change. Suppose, in-
stead, that hiring the scientist is a positive NPV transaction. In this case, the price of
shares in FCC will increase because the firm can pay the scientist a salary below his or
her true value to the company.
When will the increase in the price of FCC’s shares take place? Assume that the hiring
announcement is made in a press release on Wednesday morning. In an efficient market, the
price of shares in FCC will immediately adjust to this new information. Investors should not
be able to buy the stock on Wednesday afternoon and make a profit on Thursday. This would
imply that it took the stock market a day to realize the implication of the FCC press release.
The efficient-market hypothesis predicts that the price of shares of FCC stock on
Wednesday afternoon will already reflect the information contained in the Wednesday
morning press release.
The efficient-market hypothesis (EMH) has implications for investors and for firms.
• Because information is reflected in prices immediately, investors should only expect
to obtain a normal rate of return. Awareness of information when it is released does
an investor no good. The price adjusts before the investor has time to trade on it.
• Firms should expect to receive the fair value for securities that they sell. Fair means
that the price they receive for the securities they issue is the present value. Thus, valu-
able financing opportunities that arise from fooling investors are unavailable in effi-
cient capital markets.
Some people spend their entire careers trying to pick stocks that will outperform the
average. For any given stock, they can learn not only what has happened in the past to the
stock price and dividends, but also what the company earnings have been, how much debt
it owes, what taxes it pays, what businesses it is in, what market share it has for its prod-
ucts, how well it is doing in each of its businesses, what new investments it has planned,
how sensitive it is to the economy, and so on.
If you want to learn about a given company and its stock, an enormous amount of in-
formation is available to you. The preceding list only scratches the surface. Not only is there
a lot to know about any given company, there is also a powerful motive for doing so, the
profit motive. If you know more about a company than other investors in the marketplace,
you can profit from that knowledge by investing in the company’s stock if you have good
news or selling it if you have bad news.
There are other ways to use your information. If you could convince investors that you
have reliable information about the fortunes of the companies, you might start a newsletter
and sell investors that information. You could even charge a varying rate depending on how
fresh the information is. You could sell the monthly standard report for a subscription price
of $100 per year, but for an extra $300 a subscriber could get special interim once-a-week
reports. For $5,000 per year you could offer to telephone the customer as soon as you had
a new idea or a new piece of information. This may sound a bit farfetched, but it is what
many sellers of market information actually do.
The logical consequence of all of this information being available, studied, sold, and
used in an effort to make profits from stock market trading is that the market becomes effi-
cient. A market is efficient with respect to information if there is no way to make unusual
342
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
349
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
or excess profits by using that information. When a market is efficient with respect to in-
formation, we say that prices incorporate the information. Without knowing anything spe-
cial about a stock, an investor in an efficient market expects to earn an equilibrium required
return from an investment, and a company expects to pay an equilibrium cost of capital.3
EXAMPLE
Suppose IBM announces it has invented a microprocessor that will make its com-
puter 30 times faster than existing computers. The price of a share of IBM should
increase immediately to a new equilibrium level.
Figure 13.1 presents several possible adjustments in stock prices. The solid line repre-
sents the path taken by the stock in an efficient market. In this case the price adjusts imme-
diately to the new information so that further changes take place in the price of the stock.
The dotted line depicts a delayed reaction. Here it takes the market 30 days to fully absorb
the information. Finally, the broken line illustrates an overreaction and subsequent correc-
tion back to the true price. The broken line and the dotted line show the paths that the stock
price might take in an inefficient market. If the price of the stock takes several days to ad-
just, trading profits would be available to investors who bought at the date of the an-
nouncement and sold once the price settled back to the equilibrium.4
• Can you define an efficient market?
13.3 THE DIFFERENT TYPES OF EFFICIENCY
In our previous discussion, we assumed that the market responds immediately to all avail-
able information. In actuality, certain information may affect stock prices more quickly than
other information. To handle differential response rates, researchers separate information
into different types. The most common classification system speaks of three types: infor-
mation on past prices, publicly available information, and all information. The effect of
these three information sets on prices is examined next.
The Weak Form
Imagine a trading strategy that recommends buying a stock when it has gone up three days
in a row and recommends selling a stock when it has gone down three days in a row. This
strategy uses information based only on past prices. It does not use any other information,
Chapter 13
Corporate-Financing Decisions and Efficient Capital Markets
343
3In Chapter 10 we analyzed how the required return on a risky asset is determined.
4Now you should understand the following short story. A student was walking down the hall with his finance
professor when they both saw a $20 bill on the ground. As the student bent down to pick it up, the professor
shook his head slowly and, with a look of disappointment on his face, said patiently to the student, “Don’t
bother. If it was really there, someone else would have already picked it up.”
The moral of the story reflects the logic of the efficient-market hypothesis: If you think you have found a
pattern in stock prices or a simple device for picking winners, you probably have not. If there were such a
simple way to make money, someone else would have found it before. Furthermore, if people tried to exploit the
information, their efforts would become self-defeating and the pattern would disappear.
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
350
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
such as earnings, forecasts, merger announcements, or money-supply figures. A capital
market is said to be weakly efficient or to satisfy weak-form efficiency if it fully incorpo-
rates the information in past stock prices. Thus, the above strategy would not be able to gen-
erate profits if weak-form efficiency holds.
Often weak-form efficiency is represented mathematically as
Pt  Pt  1  Expected return  Random errort
(13.1)
Equation (13.1) states that the price today is equal to the sum of the last observed price plus
the expected return on the stock plus a random component occurring over the interval. The
last observed price could have occurred yesterday, last week, or last month, depending on
one’s sampling interval. The expected return is a function of a security’s risk and would be
based on the models of risk and return in previous chapters. The random component is due
to new information on the stock. It could be either positive or negative and has an expecta-
tion of zero. The random component in any one period is unrelated to the random compo-
nent in any past period. Hence, this component is not predictable from past prices. If stock
prices follow equation (13.1), they are said to follow a random walk.5
344
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
–30
Stock
price
Public
announcement
day
–20
–10
0
+20
+30
+10
Days before ( – ) and
after ( + ) announcement
Efficient-market
response to new information
Overreaction and
reversion
Delayed response
I FIGURE 13.1 Reaction of Stock Price to New Information in
Efficient and Inefficient Markets
Efficient-market response: The price instantaneously adjusts to and fully reflects new
information; there is no tendency for subsequent increases and decreases.
Delayed response: The price adjusts slowly to the new information; 30 days elapse
before the price completely reflects the new information.
Overreaction: The price overadjusts to the new information; there is a bubble in the
price sequence.
5For purposes of this text, the random walk can be considered synonymous with weak-form efficiency.
Technically, the random walk is a slightly more restrictive hypothesis because it assumes that stock returns are
identically distributed through time.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
351
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Weak-form efficiency is about the weakest type of efficiency that we would expect a
financial market to display because historical price information is the easiest kind of infor-
mation about a stock to acquire. If it were possible to make extraordinary profits simply by
finding the patterns in the stock price movements, everyone would do it, and any profits
would disappear in the scramble.
The effect of competition can be seen in Figure 13.2. Suppose the price of a stock dis-
played a cyclical pattern, as indicated by the wavy curve. Shrewd investors would buy at
the low points, forcing those prices up. Conversely, they would sell at the high points, forc-
ing prices down. Via competition, the cyclical regularities would be eliminated, leaving
only random fluctuations.
By denying that future market movements can be predicted from past movements, we
are denying the profitability of a host of techniques falling under the heading of technical
analysis. The term technical analysis refers to attempts to predict the future from the pat-
terns of past price movements. Furthermore, we are denigrating the work of all of their fol-
lowers, who are called technical analysts.
To provide some flavor to technical analysis, consider two commonly used approaches.
First, many technical analysts believe that stock prices are likely to follow a head-and-
shoulders pattern. This is presented in the left-hand side of Figure 13.3. An analyst at point
A, anticipating a head-and-shoulders pattern, might very well buy the stock and hopefully
hold it for a short-term gain. An analyst at point B, anticipating the completion of the pat-
tern, would sell the stock.
Second, other analysts believe that stocks making three tops are likely to fall in price.
This triple-tops pattern is presented in the right-hand side of Figure 13.3. An analyst who,
at point C, discovers that the pattern has occurred, might sell the stock.
At this point, one might wonder why anyone would restrict his or her information to
the set of past prices. Surprisingly, many technical analysts do just that, saying that all rel-
evant information on a security’s future price movement is contained in the security’s past
movement. Other information is considered distracting. John Magee,6 one of the most
renowned of technical analysts, took this approach to an extreme. He reportedly worked on
his stock market charts in an office with boarded-up windows. To him, weather was super-
fluous information that could only impede his task of stock selection.
6His book (John Magee and Robert Davis Edwards, Technical Analysis of Stock Trends, 7th ed., New York:
AMACON, 1997) is considered by many to be the bible of technical analysis.
Chapter 13
Corporate-Financing Decisions and Efficient Capital Markets
345
Stock price
Sell
Time
Sell
Sell
Buy
Buy
Buy
I FIGURE 13.2 Investor Behavior Tends to Eliminate Cyclical Patterns
If a stock’s price has followed a cyclical pattern, the pattern will be quickly eliminated in an efficient
market. A random pattern will emerge as investors buy at the trough and sell at the peak of a cycle.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
352
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The Semistrong and Strong Forms
If weak-form efficiency is controversial, even more contentious are the two stronger types
of efficiency, semistrong-form efficiency and strong-form efficiency. A market is semi-
strong-form efficient if prices reflect (incorporate) all publicly available information, in-
cluding information such as published accounting statements for the firm as well as histor-
ical price information. A market is strong-form efficient if prices reflect all information,
public or private.
The information set of past prices is a subset of the information set of publicly avail-
able information, which in turn is a subset of all information. This is shown in Figure 13.4.
Thus, strong-form efficiency implies semistrong-form efficiency, and semistrong-form ef-
ficiency implies weak-form efficiency. The distinction between semistrong-form efficiency
and weak-form efficiency is that semistrong-form efficiency requires not only that the mar-
ket be efficient with respect to historical price information, but that all of the information
available to the public be reflected in price.
To illustrate the different forms of efficiency, imagine an investor who always sold a
particular stock after its price had risen. A market that was only weak-form efficient and not
semistrong-form efficient would still prevent such a strategy from generating positive prof-
its. According to weak-form efficiency, a recent price rise does not imply that the stock is
overvalued.
Now consider a firm reporting increased earnings. An individual might consider in-
vesting in the stock after hearing of the news release giving this information. However, if
the market is semistrong efficient, the price should rise immediately upon the news release.
Thus, the investor would end up paying the higher price, eliminating all chance for profit.
At the furthest end of the spectrum is strong-form efficiency, which incorporates the
other two types of efficiency. This form says that anything that is pertinent to the value of
the stock and that is known to at least one investor is, in fact, fully incorporated into the
stock value. A strict believer in strong-form efficiency would deny that an insider who knew
whether a company mining operation had struck gold could profit from that information.
Such a devotee of the strong-form efficient-market hypothesis might argue that as soon as
the insider tried to trade on his or her information, the market would recognize what was
346
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
Head and shoulders
B
Triple tops
A
C
Stock price
Stock price
Time
Time
I FIGURE 13.3 Two Widely Believed Technical Patterns
Technical analysts frequently claim that the price of a stock is likely to follow a head-and-
shoulders pattern or a triple-tops pattern. According to a technical analyst, if a head-and-
shoulders pattern can be identified early enough, an investor might like to buy at point A and sell
at point B. A triple-tops pattern occurs when three highs are followed by a precipitous drop. If a
triple-tops pattern can be identified early enough, an investor might like to sell at point C.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
353
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
happening, and the price would shoot up before he or she could buy any of the stock.
Alternatively, sometimes believers in strong-form efficiency take the view that there are no
such things as secrets and that as soon as the gold is discovered, the secret gets out.
Are the hypotheses of semistrong-form efficiency and strong-form efficiency good de-
scriptions of how markets work? Expert opinion is divided here. The evidence in support of
semistrong-form efficiency is, of course, more compelling than that in support of strong-
form efficiency, and for many purposes it seems reasonable to assume that the market is
semistrong-form efficient. The extreme of strong-form efficiency seems more difficult to ac-
cept. Before we look at the evidence on market efficiency, we will summarize our thinking
on the versions of the efficient-market hypothesis in terms of basic economic arguments.
One reason to expect that markets are weak-form efficient is that it is so cheap and easy
to find patterns in stock prices. Anyone who can program a computer and knows a little bit
of statistics can search for such patterns. It stands to reason that if there were such patterns,
people would find and exploit them, in the process causing them to disappear.
Semistrong-form efficiency, though, uses much more sophisticated information and rea-
soning than weak-form efficiency. An investor must be skilled at economics and statistics,
and steeped in the idiosyncrasies of individual industries and companies. Furthermore, to ac-
quire and use such skills requires talent, ability, and time. In the jargon of the economist, such
an effort is costly and the ability to be successful at it is probably in scarce supply.
As for strong-form efficiency, this is just farther down the road than semistrong-form
efficiency. It is difficult to believe that the market is so efficient that someone with true and
valuable inside information cannot prosper by using it. It is also difficult to find direct evi-
dence concerning strong-form efficiency. What we have tends to be unfavorable to this hy-
pothesis of market efficiency.
Chapter 13
Corporate-Financing Decisions and Efficient Capital Markets
347
All information
relevant to a stock
Information set
of publicly available
information
Information
set of
past prices
I FIGURE 13.4 Relationship among Three Different Information Sets
The information set of past prices is a subset of the information
set of publicly available information, which in turn is a subset of
all information. If today’s price reflects only information on past
prices, the market is weak-form efficient. If today’s price reflects
all publicly available information, the market is semistrong-form
efficient. If today’s price reflects all information, both public and
private, the market is strong-form efficient.
Semistrong-form efficiency implies weak-form efficiency
and strong-form efficiency implies semistrong-form efficiency.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
354
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Some Common Misconceptions about the 
Efficient-Market Hypothesis
No idea in finance has attracted as much attention as that of efficient markets, and not all
of the attention has been flattering. To a certain extent this is because much of the criticism
has been based on a misunderstanding of what the hypothesis does and does not say. We il-
lustrate three misconceptions below.
The Efficacy of Dart Throwing
When the notion of market efficiency was first publi-
cized and debated in the popular financial press, it was often characterized by the follow-
ing quote: “. . . throwing darts at the financial page will produce a portfolio that can be ex-
pected to do as well as any managed by professional security analysts.”7, 8 This is almost,
but not quite, true.
All the efficient-market hypothesis really says is that, on average, the manager will not
be able to achieve an abnormal or excess return. The excess return is defined with respect to
some benchmark expected return that comes from the security market line of Chapter 10
(SML). The investor must still decide how risky a portfolio he or she wants and what ex-
pected return it will normally have. A random dart thrower might wind up with all of the darts
sticking into one or two high-risk stocks that deal in genetic engineering. Would you really
want all of your stock investments in two such stocks? (Beware, though—a professional
portfolio manager could do the same.)
The failure to understand this has often led to a confusion about market efficiency. For
example, sometimes it is wrongly argued that market efficiency means that it does not mat-
ter what you do because the efficiency of the market will protect the unwary. However,
someone once remarked, “The efficient market protects the sheep from the wolves, but
nothing can protect the sheep from themselves.”
What efficiency does say is that the price that a firm will obtain when it sells a share of
its stock is a fair price in the sense that it reflects the value of that stock given the informa-
tion that is available about it. Shareholders need not worry that they are paying too much
for a stock with a low dividend or some other characteristic, because the market has already
incorporated it into the price. However, investors still have to worry about such things as
their level of risk exposure and their degree of diversification.
Price Fluctuations
Much of the public is skeptical of efficiency because stock prices
fluctuate from day to day. However, daily price movement is in no way inconsistent with
efficiency; a stock in an efficient market adjusts to new information by changing price. A
great deal of new information comes into the stock market each day. In fact, the absence of
daily price movements in a changing world might suggest an inefficiency.
Stockholder Disinterest
Many laypersons are skeptical that the market price can be ef-
ficient if only a fraction of the outstanding shares changes hands on any given day. How-
ever, the number of traders in a stock on a given day is generally far less than the number
of people following the stock. This is true because an individual will trade only when his
appraisal of the value of the stock differs enough from the market price to justify incurring
brokerage commissions and other transaction costs. Furthermore, even if the number of
traders following a stock is small relative to the number of outstanding shareholders, the
348
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
7B. G. Malkiel, A Random Walk Down Wall Street, 7th ed. (New York: Norton, 1999).
8Older articles often referred to the benchmark of “dart-throwing monkeys.” As government involvement in the
securities industry grew, the benchmark was oftentimes restated as “dart-throwing congressmen.”

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
355
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
stock can be expected to be efficiently priced as long as a number of interested traders use
the publicly available information. That is, the stock price can reflect the available infor-
mation even if many stockholders never follow the stock and are not considering trading in
the near future, and even if some stockholders trade with little or no information. Thus, the
empirical findings suggesting that the stock market is predominantly efficient need not be
surprising.
• Can you describe the three forms of the efficient-market hypothesis?
• What kinds of things could make markets inefficient?
• Does market efficiency mean you can throw darts at The Wall Street Journal listing of
New York Stock Exchange stocks to pick a portfolio?
• What does it mean to say the price you pay for a stock is fair?
13.4 THE EVIDENCE
The record on the efficient-market hypothesis is extensive, and in large measure it is reas-
suring to advocates of the efficiency of markets. The studies done by academicians fall into
broad categories. First, there is evidence as to whether changes of stock prices are random.
Second are event studies. Third is the record of professionally managed investment firms.
The Weak Form
The random-walk hypothesis, as expressed in equation (13.1), implies that a stock’s price
movement in the past is unrelated to its price movement in the future. The work of Chapter 10
allows us to test this implication. In that chapter, we discussed the concept of correlation be-
tween the returns on two different stocks. For example, the correlation between the return on
General Motors and the return on Ford is likely to be high because both stocks are in the same
industry. Conversely, the correlation between the return on General Motors and the return on
the stock of, say, a European fast-food chain is likely to be low.
Financial economists frequently speak of serial correlation, which involves only one
security. This is the correlation between the current return on a security and the return on the
same security over a later period. A positive coefficient of serial correlation for a particular
stock indicates a tendency toward continuation. That is, a higher-than-average return today
is likely to be followed by higher-than-average returns in the future. Similarly, a lower-than-
average return today is likely to be followed by lower-than-average returns in the future.
A negative coefficient of serial correlation for a particular stock indicates a tendency
toward reversal. A higher-than-average return today is likely to be followed by lower-than-
average returns in the future. Similarly, a lower-than-average return today is likely to be fol-
lowed by higher-than-average returns in the future. Both significantly positive and signifi-
cantly negative serial-correlation coefficients are indications of market inefficiencies; in
either case, returns today can be used to predict future returns.
Serial correlation coefficients for stock returns near zero would be consistent with the
random-walk hypothesis. Thus, a current stock return that is higher than average is as likely
to be followed by lower-than-average returns as by higher-than-average returns. Similarly,
a current stock return that is lower than average is as likely to be followed by higher-than-
average returns as by lower-than-average returns.
Table 13.1 shows the serial correlation for daily stock-price changes for 8 large U.S.
companies. These coefficients indicate whether or not there are relationships between yester-
day’s return and today’s return. As can be seen, the correlation coefficients are predominantly
Chapter 13
Corporate-Financing Decisions and Efficient Capital Markets
349
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
356
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
positive, implying that a higher-than-average return today makes a higher-than-average return
tomorrow slightly more likely. Conversely, IBM’s coefficient is slightly negative, implying
that a lower-than-average return today makes a higher-than-average return tomorrow slightly
more likely.
However, because correlation coefficients can, in principle, vary between 1 and 1,
the reported coefficients are quite small. In fact, the coefficients are so small relative to both
estimation errors and to transactions costs that the results are generally considered to be
consistent with weak-form efficiency.
The weak form of the efficient-market hypothesis has been tested in many other ways
as well. Our view of the literature is that the evidence, taken as a whole, is strongly consis-
tent with weak-form efficiency.
This finding raises an interesting thought: If price changes are truly random, why do
so many believe that prices follow patterns? The work of both psychologists and statisti-
cians suggests that most people simply do not know what randomness looks like. For ex-
ample, consider Figure 13.5. The top graph was generated by a computer using random
numbers and equation (13.1). Because of this it must follow a random walk. Yet, we have
found that people examining the chart generally see patterns. Different people will see dif-
ferent patterns and will forecast different future price movements. However, in our experi-
ence, viewers are all quite confident of the patterns they see.
Next, consider the bottom graph, which tracks actual movements in Sears, Roebuck’s
stock price. This graph may look quite nonrandom to some, suggesting weak-form ineffi-
ciency. However, it also bears a close visual resemblance to the simulated series above, and
statistical tests indicate that it indeed behaves like a purely random series. Thus, in our opin-
ion, people claiming to see patterns in stock-price data are probably seeing optical illusions.
The Semistrong Form
The semistrong form of the efficient-market hypothesis implies that prices should reflect all
publicly available information. We present two types of tests of this form.
350
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
I TABLE 13.1 Serial Correlation Coefficients for 
8 Large U.S. Companies
Serial Correlation
Company
Coefficient
Boeing Co.
0.038
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
0.064
Coca-Cola Co.
0.041
IBM Corporation
0.004
Philip Morris Companies Inc.
0.075
Procter & Gamble Co.
0.030
Sears, Roebuck & Co.
0.046
Texaco Inc.
0.005
Boeing’s coefficient of 0.038 is slightly positive, implying that a positive return today makes a positive return
tomorrow slightly more likely. IBM’s coefficient is negative, implying that a negative return today makes a
positive return tomorrow slightly more likely. However, the coefficients are so small relative to estimation error
and transaction costs that the results are generally considered to be consistent with efficient capital markets.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
357
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Event Studies
The abnormal return (AR) on a given stock for a particular day can be cal-
culated by subtracting the market’s return on the same day (Rm)—as measured by a broad-
based index such as the S&P composite index—from the actual return (R) on the stock for
that day.9 We write this algebraically as:
A way to think of the tests of the semistrong form is to examine the following system
of relationships:
Information released at time t  1 →ARt1
Information released at time t →ARt
Information released at time t  1 →ARt1
The arrows indicate that the return in any time period is related only to the information re-
leased during that period.
According to the efficient-market hypothesis, a stock’s abnormal return at time t, ARt,
should reflect the release of information at the same time, t. Any information released be-
fore then, though, should have no effect on abnormal returns in this period, because all of
its influence should have been felt before. In other words, an efficient market would already
have incorporated previous information into prices. Because a stock’s return today cannot
depend on what the market does not yet know, the information that will be known only in
the future cannot influence the stock’s return either. Hence the arrows point in the direction
that is shown, with information in any one time period affecting only that period’s abnor-
mal return. Event studies are statistical studies that examine whether the arrows are as
shown or whether the release of information influences returns on other days.
AR  R  Rm
Chapter 13
Corporate-Financing Decisions and Efficient Capital Markets
351
103.0
102.0
101.0
100.0
99.0
98.0
97.0
A. Simulated price movements
Relative price
Time
103.0
102.0
101.0
100.0
99.0
98.0
97.0
B. Actual price movements for
the stock of Sears, Roebuck
Relative price
96.0
95.0
94.0
Time
I FIGURE 13.5 Simulated and Actual Stock-Price Movements
9The abnormal return can also be measured by using the market model. In this case the abnormal return is
AR  R    Rm

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
358
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
As an example, consider the study by Szewczyk, Tsetsekos, and Zantout10 on dividend
omissions. Figure 13.6 shows the plot of cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) for a sam-
ple of companies announcing dividend omissions. Since dividend omissions are generally
considered to be bad events, we would expect that abnormal returns would be negative
around the time of the announcements. They are, as evidenced by a drop in the CAR on both
the day before the announcement (day 1) and the day of the announcement (day 0).11
However, note that there is virtually no movement in the CARs in the days following the
announcement. This implies that the bad news is fully incorporated into the stock price by
the announcement day, a result consistent with market efficiency.
352
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
10Samuel H. Szewczyk, George P. Tsetsekos, and Zaher Z. Zantout, “Do Dividend Omissions Signal Future
Earnings or Past Earnings?” Journal of Investing (Spring 1997).
11An astute reader may wonder why the abnormal return is negative on day 1, as well as on day 0. To see why,
first note that the announcement date is generally taken in academic studies to be the publication date of the
story in The Wall Street Journal (WSJ). Then consider a company announcing a dividend omission via a press
release at noon on Tuesday. The stock should fall on Tuesday. The announcement will be reported in the WSJ on
Wednesday, because the Tuesday edition of the WSJ has already been printed. For this firm, the stock price falls
on the day before the announcement in the WSJ.
Alternatively, imagine another firm announcing a dividend omission via a press release on Tuesday at 8 P.M.
Since the stock market is closed at that late hour, the stock price will fall on Wednesday. Because the WSJ will
report the announcement on Wednesday, the stock price falls on the day of the announcement in the WSJ.
Since firms may either make announcements during trading hours or after trading hours, stocks should fall
on both day 1 and day 0 relative to publication in the WSJ.
0
–1
–2
–3
–4
–5
–7
–6
–5
–4
–3
–2
–1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
0.146
0.108
0.032
–0.072
–0.244
–0.483
–3.619
–5.012
–5.411
–5.183
–4.898
– 4.563 –4.747 – 4.685
– 4.490
Cumulative abnormal returns (%)
Days relative to announcement of dividend omission
I FIGURE 13.6 Cumulative Abnormal Returns for Companies Announcing Dividend Omissions
Cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) fall on both the day before the announcement and the day of the announcement of dividend omissions.
CARs have very little movement after the announcement date. This pattern is consistent with market efficiency. 
From Exhibit 2 in S. H. Szewczyk, George P. Tsetsekos, and Zaher Zantout, “Do Dividend Omissions Signal Future Earnings or Past Earnings?” Journal of
Investing (Spring 1997).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
359
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Over the years this type of methodology has been applied to a large number of events.
Announcements of dividends, earnings, mergers, capital expenditures, and new issues of
stock are a few examples of the vast literature in the area.12 Although there are exceptions,
the event-study tests generally support the view that the market is semistrong-form (and
therefore also weak-form) efficient. In fact, the tests even tend to support the view that the
market is gifted with a certain amount of foresight. By this we mean that news tends to leak
out and be reflected in stock prices even before the official release of the information.
Tests of market efficiency can be found in the oddest places. The price of frozen orange
juice depends to a large extent on the weather in Orlando, Florida, where many of the oranges
that are frozen for juice are grown. One researcher found that he could actually use frozen-
orange-juice prices to improve the U.S. Weather Bureau’s forecast of the temperature for the
following night.13 Clearly the market knows something that the weather forecasters do not.
Another group of researchers found that, as expected, stock prices generally fall on the
date when the sudden death of a chief executive is announced.14 However, the stock price
generally rises for the sudden death of a company’s founder if he was still heading up the
firm prior to his death. The implication is that many of these individuals have outlived their
usefulness to their firms.
The Record of Mutual Funds
If the market is efficient in the semistrong form, then no
matter what publicly available information mutual-fund managers rely on to pick stocks,
their average returns should be the same as those of the average investor in the market as a
whole. We can test efficiency, then, by comparing the performance of these professionals
with that of a market index.
Consider Figure 13.7, which presents the performance of various types of mutual funds
relative to the stock market as a whole. The far left of the figure shows that the universe of
all funds covered in the study underperforms the market by 2.13 percent per year, after an
appropriate adjustment for risk.15 Thus, rather than outperforming the market, the evidence
shows underperformance. This underperformance holds for a number of types of funds as
well. Returns in this study are net of fees, expenses, and commissions, so fund returns
would be higher if these costs were added back. However, the study shows no evidence that
funds, as a whole, are beating the market.
Perhaps nothing rankles successful stock market investors more than to have some pro-
fessor tell them that they are not necessarily smart, just lucky. However, while Figure 13.7
represents only one study, there have been many papers on mutual funds. The overwhelm-
ing evidence here is that mutual funds, on average, do not beat broad-based indices. This
does not mean that no individual investor can beat the market average or that he or she lacks
a special insight, only that proof seems difficult to find.
By and large, mutual-fund managers rely on publicly available information. Thus the
finding that they do not outperform the market indices is consistent with semistrong-form
Chapter 13
Corporate-Financing Decisions and Efficient Capital Markets
353
12In academic finance nothing is ever completely resolved, and some event studies suggest that stock market
prices respond to information too slowly for the market to be efficient. For example, Eli Bartov, Suresh
Radhakrishnan, and Itzhak Krinsky, “Investor Sophistication and Patterns in Stock Returns after Earnings
Announcements,” The Accounting Review 75 (January 2000).
13These findings are reported in R. Roll, “Orange Juice and Weather,” American Economic Review (December 1984).
14W. B. Johnson, R. P. Magee, N. J. Nagarajan, and H. A. Newman, “An Analysis of the Stock Price Reaction to
Sudden Executive Deaths: Implications for the Managerial Labor Market,” Journal of Accounting and
Economics (April 1985).
15This finding is similar to those reported by R. Wermers, “Mutual Fund Performance: An Empirical Decomposition
into Stock-Picking, Talent, Style, Transactions Costs, and Expenses,” Journal of Finance (August 2000).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
360
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
and weak-form efficiency. This does not imply that mutual funds are bad investments for
individuals. Though these funds fail to achieve better returns than some indices of the mar-
ket, they do permit the investor to buy a portfolio that has a large number of stocks in it (the
phrase “a well-diversified portfolio” is often used). They might also be very good at pro-
viding a variety of services such as keeping custody and records of all the stocks.
Some Contrary Views
Although the bulk of the evidence supports the view that markets
are efficient, we would not be fair if we did not note the existence of contrary results. We
begin with three areas of academic research.
1. Size. In 1981, two important papers presented evidence that, in the United States, the
returns on stocks with small market capitalizations16 were greater than the returns on stocks
with large market capitalizations over most of the 20th century.17 The studies have since been
replicated over different time periods and in different countries. For example, Figure 13.8
shows average returns over the period from 1963 to 1995 for five portfolios of U.S. stocks
ranked on size. As can be seen, the average return on small stocks is quite a bit higher than
the average return on large stocks. Although much of the differential performance is merely
compensation for the extra risk of small stocks, researchers have generally argued that not all
of it can be explained by risk differences. In addition, Donald Keim18 presented evidence that
most of the 5 percent per year difference in performance occurs in the month of January.
2. Temporal Anomalies. After Keim’s surprising results in January, researchers examined
returns over various time intervals. For example, studies indicate that average stock returns in
January are higher than in other months for both large and small capitalization securities.
354
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
–2.13%
–8.45%
–5.41%
–2.17%
–0.39%
–0.51%
–2.29%
–1.06%
All Funds
Small-company
growth funds
Other
aggressive
growth funds
Growth
funds
Income
funds
Growth and
income funds
Maximum
capital gains
funds
Sector
funds
On average, mutual funds do not appear to be outperforming the market.
I FIGURE 13.7 Annual Return Performance* of Different Types of U.S. Mutual Funds
Relative to a Broad-Based Market Index (1963–1998)
Taken from Table 2 of Lubos Pastor and Robert F. Stambaugh, “Mutual Fund Performance and Seemingly Unrelated Assets,” unpublished
paper, Graduate School of Business, University of Chicago (February, 2001), forthcoming Journal of Financial Economics.
*Performance is relative to the market-model.
16Market capitalization is the price per share of stock multiplied by the number of shares outstanding.
17See R. W. Banz, “The Relationship between Return and Market Value of Common Stocks,” Journal of
Financial Economics (March 1981), and M. R. Reinganum, “Misspecification of Capital Asset Pricing: Empirical
Anomalies Based on Earnings Yields and Market Values,” Journal of Financial Economics (March 1981).
18D. B. Keim, “Size-Related Anomalies and Stock Return Seasonality: Further Empirical Evidence,” Journal of
Financial Economics (June 1983).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
361
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Average stock returns are significantly higher over the first half of the month than they are over
the second half of the month.19 Returns are particularly high on the day before a holdiay.20
Across days of the week, stock returns are highest on Wednesdays and Fridays and are
lowest on Mondays.21 In fact, researchers generally conclude that the average return on
Monday is negative. This finding is inconsistent with market efficiency since rational in-
vestors should never be willing to lose money on average—and to take risk to boot.
Consider Figure 13.9, which shows average returns for Monday and for the other days of
the week for five different countries. For each country, average daily returns on Monday are
negative while they are positive for the rest of the week.
The evidence on temporal anomalies is quite convincing, with results being replicated
in other time periods and in other countries. However, the implications are few because the
return differences generally do not exceed transaction costs. For example, an individual
who bought a stock every Tuesday morning and sold the stock every Friday evening in or-
der to avoid the negative Monday return would have a lower return after commissions than
an individual who bought the same stock and held it for months or years without trading.
3. Value versus Growth. A number of papers have argued that stocks with high book-
value-to-stock-price ratios and/or high earnings-to-price ratios (generally called value stocks)
Chapter 13
Corporate-Financing Decisions and Efficient Capital Markets
355
Portfolio
Small
2
3
4
18.90%
16.25%
15.31%
13.71%
11.91%
Large
I FIGURE 13.8 Annual Stock Returns on Portfolios Sorted by Size
(Market Capitalization)
Historically, the average return on small stocks has been above the average return on large stocks.
Source: Tim Loughran, “Book-to-Market across Firm Size, Exchange and Seasonality,” Journal of Financial
and Quantitative Analysis 32 (1997).
19R. A. Ariel, “A Monthly Effect on Stock Returns,” Journal of Financial Economics, (1987).
20R. A. Ariel, “High Stock Returns before Holidays: Existence and Evidence on Possible Causes,” Journal of
Finance, (December 1990).
21One of the original articles to observce “day of the week” anomalies is M. R. Gibbons and P. Hess, “Day of
the Week Effects and Asset Returns,” Journal of Business (1981).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
362
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
outperform stocks with low ratios (growth stocks). For example, Fama and French22 find that,
for twelve of thirteen major international stock markets, the average return on stocks with high
book-value-to-stock-price ratios is above the average return on stocks with low book-value-
to-stock-price ratios. Figure 13.10 shows these returns for the world’s five largest stock mar-
kets. Value stocks have outperformed growth stocks in each of these five markets.
Because the return difference is so large and because the above ratios can be obtained
so easily for individual stocks, the results may constitute strong evidence against market ef-
ficiency. However, a number of current papers suggest that the unusual returns are due to
biases in the commercial databases or to differences in risk, not to a true inefficiency.23
Since the debate revolves around arcane statistical issues, we will not pursue the issue fur-
ther. However, it is safe to say that no conclusion is warranted at this time. As with so many
other topics in finance and economics, further research is needed.
In addition, the stock market crash of October 19, 1987, is extremely puzzling. The
market dropped between 20 percent and 25 percent on a Monday following a weekend dur-
ing which little surprising news was released. A drop of this magnitude for no apparent rea-
son is not consistent with market efficiency. Because the crash of 1929 is still an enigma, it
356
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
22Taken from Table III of Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French, “Value versus Growth: The International
Evidence,” Journal of Finance 53 (December, 1998).
23For example, see S. P. Kothari, J. Shanken, and R. G. Sloan, “Another Look at the Cross Section of Expected
Stock Returns,” Journal of Finance (March 1995), and E. F. Fama and K. R. French, “Multifactor Explanations
of Asset Pricing Anomalies,” Journal of Finance 51 (March 1996).
United Kingdom
France
Germany
Japan
United States
Returns on Monday are lower than the returns on the other days of the week.
0.1269
.0972
Rest of
Week
Mon.
0.0546
0.0621
Rest of
Week
Mon.
0.0721
0.1592
Rest of
Week
Mon.
0.0762
0.1157
Rest of
Week
Mon.
0.0404
0.0500
Rest of
Week
Mon.
I FIGURE 13.9 Average Daily Returns (in percent) for Monday and
for Rest of the Week for Stock Market Indices in
Selected Countries
Source: Adapted from Table 3 of Wilson Tong, “International Evidence on Weekend Anomalies,”
unpublished paper, Hong Kong University of Science and Engineering (1999).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
363
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
is doubtful that the more recent debacle will be explained anytime soon. The recent com-
ments of an eminent historian are apt here: When asked what, in his opinion, the effect of
the French Revolution of 1789 was, he replied that it was too early to tell.
Perhaps the two stock market crashes are evidence consistent with the bubble theory
of speculative markets. That is, security prices sometimes move wildly above their true val-
ues. Eventually prices fall back to their original level, causing great losses for investors. The
tulip craze of the 17th century in Holland and the South Sea Bubble in England the fol-
lowing century are perhaps the two best-known bubbles. In the first episode, tulips rose to
unheard-of prices. For example:
A single bulb of the Harlaem species was exchanged for twelve acres of building ground. . . .
Another variety fetched 4,600 florins, a new carriage and two gray horses, plus nine complete sets
of harnesses. A bulb of the Viceroy species commanded the sum of all the following items in ex-
change: seventeen bushels of wheat, thirty-four bushels of rye, four fat oxen, eight fat swine,
twelve fat sheep, two hogshead of wine, four tons of beer, two tons of butter, 1,000 pounds of
cheese, a complete bed, a suit of clothes, and a silver drinking cup thrown in for good measure.24
It seems speculative fervor hit England a century later. Fantastic schemes of all types
were paraded before a public eager to invest. Most of them provided good evidence for the
dictums: “A sucker is born every minute” and “A fool and his money are soon parted.”
Chapter 13
Corporate-Financing Decisions and Efficient Capital Markets
357
United Kingdom
France
Germany
Japan
United States
14.55
7.75
16.91
7.06
17.87
13.25
High book-to-price stocks (frequently called value stocks) outperform low book-to-price (growth) stocks
in different countries.
17.10
Value
9.46
12.77
10.01
Growth
Growth
Growth
Growth
Growth
Value
Value
Value
Value
I FIGURE 13.10 Annual Dollar Returns* (in percent) on Low Book-
to-Price Firms and High Book-to-Price Firms in
Selected Countries
Source: Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French, “Value versus Growth: The International Evidence,”
Journal of Finance (December 1998).
*Dollar returns are expressed as the excess over the return on U.S. Treasury bills.
24B. G. Malkiel, A Random Walk Down Wall Street, college ed. (New York: Norton, 1975), pp. 31–32.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
364
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
358
WERE THE JAPANESE STOCK PRICES TOO HIGH?
T
his is the question investors have been asking about
the Japanese stock market. As can be seen from the
chart below, an investment of one yen, placed in a diver-
sified portfolio of Japanese stocks on the last day of
1969, would have grown to about 18 yen by 1988. By
contrast, the tables in Chapter 9 can be used to show that
a $1 investment in American stocks would have only
risen to under $7 over the same time period. During this
time period, the average price-earnings ratio for
Japanese stocks was much higher than that for American
stocks. For example, the Japanese P/E ratio was 54.3 in
1988, while the United States P/E ratio was 12.9 at the
same time.*
However, as can be seen from the chart below,
Japanese stocks took quite a fall after 1988. By the end of
1993, the 18:1 ratio had dropped to 9:1. It has stayed at
about 9:1 over the ensuing years. By contrast, the U.S.
ratio had risen from 7:1 to over 22. Not surprisingly, the
P/E ratios had moved closer together. By the middle of
1997, the Japanese P/E ratio was approximately 44, while
the American P/E ratio was about 21. This pattern has
persisted into the year 2001.
*Actually, this disparity is partly due to differences in
accounting treatments for the two countries. Kenneth R. French
and James M. Poterba (“Were Japanese Stock Prices Too
High?” Journal of Financial Economics 29 (October 1991), pp.
337–64) estimate that in 1988 the price-earnings ratio of
Japanese firms would have been 32.1 instead of 54.3 had U.S.
accounting practices been adopted.
Worth of an Investment of One Yen Made at the End of 1969 in Japanese Stocks
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1995
1996
Wealth in yen
Is this
a bubble?
Date
1994
1997
1999
2000
1998
Data for this chart supplied by Yasushi Hamao. Reinvestment of dividends is assumed.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
365
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
According to Malkiel,
The prize, however, must surely go to the unknown soul who started “A Company for carrying
on an undertaking of great advantage, but nobody to know what it is.” The prospectus prom-
ises unheard-of rewards. At nine o’clock in the morning, when the subscription books opened,
crowds of people from all walks of life practically beat down the doors in an effort to sub-
scribe. Within five hours a thousand investors handed over their money for shares in the com-
pany. Not being greedy himself, the promoter promptly closed up shop and set off for the
Continent. He was never heard from again.25
The Strong Form
Even the strongest adherents to the efficient-market hypothesis would not be surprised to
find that markets are inefficient in the strong form. After all, if an individual has informa-
tion that no one else has, it is likely that he can profit from it.
One group of studies of strong-form efficiency investigates insider trading. Insiders in
firms have access to information that is not generally available. But if the strong form of the
efficient-market hypothesis holds, they should not be able to profit by trading on their in-
formation. A government agency, the Securities and Exchange Commission, requires in-
siders in companies to reveal any trading they might do in their own company’s stock. By
examining the record of such trades, we can see whether they made abnormal returns. A
number of studies support the view that these trades were abnormally profitable. Thus,
strong-form efficiency does not seem to be substantiated by the evidence.26
13.5 IMPLICATIONS FOR CORPORATE FINANCE
Accounting and Efficient Markets
The accounting profession provides firms with a significant amount of leeway in their re-
porting practices. For example, companies may choose between the last-in–first-out
(LIFO) or first-in–first-out (FIFO) method in valuing inventories. They may choose either
the percentage-of-completion or the completed-contract method for construction projects.
They may depreciate physical assets by either accelerated or straight-line depreciation.
Accountants have frequently been accused of misusing this leeway in the hopes of
boosting earnings and stock prices. For example, U.S. Steel (now USX Corporation)
switched from straight-line to accelerated depreciation after World War II, because their
high reported profits at the time attracted much governmental scrutiny. They switched back
to straight-line depreciation in the 1960s after years of low reported earnings.
However, accounting choice should not affect stock price if two conditions hold. First,
enough information must be provided in the annual report so that financial analysts can con-
struct earnings under the alternative accounting methods. This appears to be the case for
many, though not necessarily all, accounting choices. For example, most skilled analysts
can create pro forma financial statements under a LIFO assumption if they are provided
with actual statements prepared under FIFO. Second, the market must be efficient in the
semistrong form. In other words, the market must appropriately use all of this accounting
information in determining the market price.
Of course, the issue of whether accounting choice affects stock price is ultimately an
empirical matter. A number of academic papers have addressed this issue. Kaplan and Roll
Chapter 13
Corporate-Financing Decisions and Efficient Capital Markets
359
25B. G. Malkiel, A Random Walk Down Wall Street.
26H. N. Seyhun, Investor Intelligence from Insider Trading, MIT Press: Cambridge, Mass., 1998.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
366
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
found that the switch from accelerated to straight-line depreciation generally did not sig-
nificantly affect stock prices.27 Kaplan and Roll also looked at changes from the deferral
method of accounting for the investment tax credit to the flow-through method.28 They
found that a switch would increase accounting earnings but had no effect on stock prices.
Several other accounting procedures have been studied. Hong, Kaplan, and Mandelker
found no evidence that the stock market was affected by the artificially higher earnings re-
ported using the pooling method, compared to the purchase method, for reporting mergers
and acquisitions.29 Biddle and Lindahl found that firms switching to the LIFO method of
costing inventory experienced an increase in stock price.30 This is to be expected in infla-
tionary environments because LIFO inventory costing can reduce taxes, compared to FIFO
inventory costing. They found that the larger the tax decrease resulting from the use of
LIFO, the greater was the increase in stock price. In summary, the above empirical evidence
suggests that accounting changes do not fool the market.
However, a recent study reaches different conclusions.31 Sloane points out that a firm’s
earnings can be broken up into the following two components:
Earnings  Cash flow  Accruals
This relationship implies that a firm with no cash flow but high earnings must have a high
level of accruals. An increase in inventories, an increase in accounts receivable, and a re-
duction in accounts payable would all be examples of a buildup in accruals. Conversely,
accruals could be negative if either current assets are being reduced or if there is substan-
tial depreciation.
Accountants have long argued that the “quality” of earnings is high for firms with
low (or even negative) accruals, while the quality of earnings is low for firms with high
accruals. Sloane finds that the one-year stock returns on firms that recently had a reduc-
tion in accruals is quite high, while the one-year returns on firms experiencing an increase
in accruals is negative. In fact, a strategy of buying stocks following a reduction in ac-
cruals and simultaneously selling stocks following a buildup in accruals would have gen-
erated an average return of about 10 percent per year. These results are not consistent with
market efficiency. Thus, the Sloane paper suggests that investors react slowly to this type
of accounting information.
Accountants also argue that the quality of earnings is higher for firms with hidden re-
serves, such as the reserve generated by companies on LIFO. Penman and Zhang32 find that
a strategy of buying stocks experiencing an increase in these reserves and simultaneously
selling stocks experiencing a decrease would have created an average return of about 9 per-
cent a year. Both Sloane and Penman-Zhang show that an analysis of the quality of earn-
ings can yield stock market profits.
360
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
27R. S. Kaplan and R. Roll, “Investor Evaluation of Accounting Information: Some Empirical Evidence,”
Journal of Business 45 (April 1972).
28Before 1987, U.S. tax law allowed a 10-percent tax credit on the purchase of most kinds of capital equipment.
29H. Hong, R. S. Kaplan, and G. Mandelker. “Pooling vs. Purchase: The Effects of Accounting for Mergers on
Stock Prices,” Accounting Review 53 (1978).
30G. C. Biddle and F. W. Lindahl, “Stock Price Reactions to LIFO Adoptions: The Association between Excess
Returns and LIFO Tax Savings,” Journal of Accounting Research (1982).
31Richard G. Sloane, “Do Stock Prices Fully Reflect Information in Accruals and Cash Flows about Future
Earnings?” The Accounting Review (July 1996).
32Stephen H. Penman and Xiao-Jun Zhang, “Accounting Conservatism, the Quality of Earnings and Stock
Returns,” unpublished paper, University of California, Berkeley (December 1999).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
367
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The Timing Decision
Imagine a firm whose managers are contemplating the date to issue equity. This decision is
frequently called the timing decision. If managers believe that their stock is overpriced, they
are likely to issue equity immediately. Here, they are creating value for their current stock-
holders because they are selling stock for more than it is worth. Conversely, if the managers
believe that their stock is underpriced, they are more likely to wait, hoping that the stock
price will eventually rise to its true value.
However, if markets are efficient, securities are always correctly priced. Since efficiency
implies that stock is always sold for its true worth, the timing decision becomes unimpor-
tant. Figure 13.11 shows three possible stock price adjustments to the issuance of new stock.
Of course, market efficiency is ultimately an empirical issue. Surprisingly, a recent pa-
per has called market efficiency into question. Loughran and Ritter33 present evidence that
annual returns over the five years following an initial public offering (IPO) are, on average,
approximately 7 percent less for the issuing company than the return on a non-issuing com-
pany of similar market capitalization. In addition, Loughran and Ritter examine seasoned
equity offerings (SEOs), i.e., issuances of common stock for publicly traded companies.
They find that, over the five years following an SEO, the annualized return on the issuing
firm’s stock is, on average, 8 percent less than the return on a comparable nonissuing com-
pany. The upper half of Figure 13.12 shows the average annual returns of both IPOs and
their control group, and the lower half of Figure 13.12 shows the average annual returns of
both SEOs and their control group. The evidence of the Loughran and Ritter paper suggests
that corporate managers issue stock when it is overpriced. In other words, they are suc-
cessfully able to time the market.
Chapter 13
Corporate-Financing Decisions and Efficient Capital Markets
361
Stock price
of issuing
firm
Months
relative to
issue day
–6 –5 –4 –3 –2 –1
0
+1
+2
+3
+4
+5
+6
Issue
day
Stock price movement
if managers have
inferior timing
ability
Efficient-market
movement
Stock price
movement if
managers have
superior timing
ability
I FIGURE 13.11 Three Stock Price Adjustments
Studies show that stock is more likely to be issued after stock prices have increased.
No inferences on market efficiency can be drawn from this result. Rather, market
efficiency implies that the stock price of the issuing firm, on average, neither rises nor
falls after issuance of stock.
33T. Loughran and J. R. Ritter, “The Timing and Subsequent Performance of New Issue,” Journal of Finance (1995).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
368
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
362
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
15
10
5
0
20
15
10
5
0
20
First
year
Second
year
Third
year
Fourth
year
Fifth
year
Non-issuers
SEOs
First
year
Second
year
Third
year
Fourth
year
Fifth
year
Non-issuers
IPOs
Annual percentage return
Annual percentage return
I FIGURE 13.12 Returns on Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) and Seasoned Equity
Offerings (SEOs) in Years Following Issue
The average annual raw returns for 4,753 IPOs from 1970–1990 and their matching non-issuing firms during the five years after the issue. The
first-year return does not include the return on the day of issue.
The average annual raw returns for 3,702 SEOs from 1970–1990 and their matching non-issuing firms during the five years after the issue. On
average, IPOs and SEOs underperform their control groups by 7% and 8% per year, respectively, in the five years following issuance.
Source: See T. Loughran and J. R. Ritter, “The Timing and Subsequent Performance of New Issues,” Journal of Finance (1995).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
369
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
If firms can time the issuance of common stock, perhaps they can also time the repur-
chase of stock. Here, a firm would like to repurchase when its stock is undervalued. Ikenberry,
Lakonishok, and Vermaelen34 find that stock returns of repurchasing firms are abnormally
high in the two years following the repurchase, suggesting that timing is effective here.
As is always the case, empirical research is never ultimately settled. However, in our
opinion, the evidence of the Loughran and Ritter paper and the evidence of the Ikenberry,
Lakonishok, and Vermaelen paper, taken together, suggests that managers successfully en-
gage in timing. These papers, if they stand the test of time, constitute evidence against mar-
ket efficiency.35
Chapter 13
Corporate-Financing Decisions and Efficient Capital Markets
363
EFFICIENT-MARKET HYPOTHESIS: 
A SUMMARY
Does Not Say
Prices are uncaused.
Investors are foolish and too stupid to be in the market.
All shares of stock have the same expected returns.
Investors should throw darts to select stocks.
There is no upward trend in stock prices.
Does Say
Prices reflect underlying value.
Financial managers cannot time stock and bond sales.
Sales of stock and bonds will not depress prices.
You cannot cook the books.
Why Doesn’t Everybody Believe It?
There are optical illusions, mirages, and apparent patterns in charts of stock market returns.
The truth is less interesting.
There is some evidence against efficiency:
• Seasonality.
• Small versus large stocks.
• Value versus growth stocks.
The tests of market efficiency are weak.
Three Forms
Weak form (random walk): Prices reflect past prices; chartism (technical analysis) is useless.
Semistrong form: Prices reflect all public information; most financial analysis is useless.
Strong form: Prices reflect all that is knowable; nobody consistently makes superior profits.
34D. Ikenberry, J. Lakonishok, and T. Vermaelen, “Market Underreaction to Open Market Share Repurchases,”
Journal of Financial Economics (October–November 1995).
35There is a vigorous academic debate on Loughran and Ritter’s findings. Two papers with contrary conclusions
are A. Brav, C. Geczy, and P. A. Gompers, “Is the Abnormal Return Following Equity Issues Anomalous?”
unpublished paper, Duke University (August 1999), and E. B. Eckbo, R. W. Masulis, and O. Norli, “Seasoned
Public Offerings: Resolution of the ‘New Issues’ Puzzle,” unpublished paper, Vanderbilt University (1999). Two
papers supporting Loughran and Ritter are D. Ahn and A. Shivdasani, “Long-Term Returns Following Seasoned
Equity Issues: Bad Performance or Bad Models,” unpublished paper, University of North Carolina (July 1999)
and T. Loughran and J. R. Ritter, “Uniformly Least Powerful Tests of Market Efficiency,” Journal of Financial
Economics 5 (March 2000).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
370
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Price-Pressure Effects
Suppose a firm wants to sell a large block of stock. Can it sell as many shares as it wants
without depressing the price? If capital markets are efficient, a firm should be able to sell
as many shares as it desires without depressing the price. Scholes was one of the first to ex-
amine this question empirically.36 He found that the market’s ability to absorb large blocks
of stock was virtually unlimited. His findings were surprising to real-world practitioners be-
cause the sale of large blocks of shares is generally believed to temporarily depress the price
of a company’s stock.
Keim and Madhavan37 also study the price impact of large block trades, as shown in
Figure 13.13. Their conclusions differ from those of Scholes. For New York Stock Exchange
364
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
Price
End
of day –1
End
of day +1
Block
price
Time
1.80%
Permanent effect caused
by market’s belief that
seller has special information.
1.86%
Temporary effect or rebound
caused by distressed sale.
This rebound is evidence
of price pressure.
3.66%
I FIGURE 13.13 Price Impacts of Block Trading
Graph depicts the average price difference, expressed as a percentage, between selected trades in the period from the
close of trading on day 1 to the close of trading on day 1. Day 0 is the day on which a block sale occurred. The drop
in price from a block trade and subsequent rebound is evidence of a price-pressure effect.
From D. Keim and A. Madhavan, “The Upstairs Market for Large Block Transactions: Analysis and Measurement of Price Effects,”
Review of Financial Studies (Spring 1996).
36M. Scholes, “The Market for Securities: Substitution versus Price Pressure and the Effects of Information on
Share Prices,” Journal of Business (April 1972).
37D. Keim and A. Madhavan, “The Upstairs Market for Block Transactions: Analysis and Measurement of Price
Effects,” Review of Financial Studies (Spring 1996).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
371
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 13
Corporate-Financing Decisions and Efficient Capital Markets
365
and American Stock Exchange securities, they find that the stock price drops, on average, about
3.66 percent from the closing trade on the previous day to the block trade itself. However, the
stock rebounds by 1.86 percent by the close of the day after the block trade. Keim and Madhavan
argue that the difference of 1.80 percent ( 3.66%  1.86%) reflects the market’s belief that the
block seller has special (negative) information concerning the stock. This drop of 1.80 percent
is a permanent effect. In addition, the block trader sells at a still lower price because of his need
to sell quickly. This temporary or rebound effect (1.86% in this example) is similar to real estate
sales at distressed prices when the seller needs cash immediately. This drop in price and subse-
quent rebound of 1.86 percent is evidence of price pressure.
The preceding are just two of a large number of studies in the area. Because the mag-
nitude of the price-pressure effect varies across the existing research, more work is needed
to resolve the conflicting results.
• What are three implications of the efficient-market hypothesis for corporate finance?
13.6 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1. An efficient financial market processes the information available to investors and
incorporates it into the prices of securities. Market efficiency has two general implications.
First, in any given time period, a stock’s abnormal return depends on information or news
received by the market in that period. Second, an investor who uses the same information as
the market cannot expect to earn abnormal returns. In other words, systems for playing the
market are doomed to fail.
2. What information does the market use to determine prices? The weak form of the efficient-
market hypothesis says that the market uses the past history of prices and is therefore
efficient with respect to these past prices. This implies that stock selection based on patterns
of past stock-price movements is not better than random stock selection.
3. A stronger theory of efficiency is semistrong-form efficiency, which states that the market
uses all publicly available information in setting prices.
4. The strongest theory of efficiency, strong-form efficiency, states that the market has available
to it and uses all of the information that anybody knows about stocks, even inside information.
5. The evidence from different financial markets supports weak-form and semistrong-form
efficiency but not strong-form efficiency. This is no consolation to the army of investors that
uses publicly available information in attempts to beat the market.
6. In our study of efficient markets we stress the importance of distinguishing between the
actual return on a stock and the expected return. The difference is called the abnormal return
and comes from the release of news to the market.
7. Not everybody completely believes the efficient-market hypothesis. It is a misunderstood
theory. The boxed material (on page 363) summarizes what it does and does not say.
8. Three implications of efficient markets for corporate finance are listed below:
a. The price of a company’s stock cannot be affected by a change in accounting.
b. Financial managers cannot time issues of stocks and bonds using publicly available
information.
c. A firm can sell as many bonds or shares of stock as it desires without depressing prices.
There is conflicting empirical evidence on all three points.
9. Do we have a better theory? At the present time, we think the answer is no. However, over
time the theory will no doubt improve.
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
372
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
KEY TERMS
Bubble theory
357
Serial correlation
349
Efficient-market hypothesis
342
Strong-form efficiency
346
Market capitalization
354
Technical analysis
345
Random walk
344
Weak-form efficiency
344
Semistrong-form efficiency
346
SUGGESTED READINGS
The concept of market efficiency is an important one. Perhaps the classic review articles are
Fama, E. F. “Efficient Capital Markets: A Review of Theory and Empirical Work.” Journal of
Finance (May 1970).
Fama, E. F. “Efficient Capital Markets: II.” Journal of Finance (December 1991).
Fama, E. F. “Market Efficiency, Long-Term Returns, and Behavioral Finance.” Journal of
Financial Economics (1998).
An entertaining, yet quite informative, book on efficient markets is
Malkiel, B. G. A Random Walk Down Wall Street. 7th ed. New York: Norton, 1999.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Can Financing Decisions Create Value?
13.1 a. What rule should a firm follow when making financing decisions?
b. How can firms create valuable financing opportunities?
A Description of Efficient Capital Markets
13.2 Define the three forms of market efficiency.
13.3 Which of the following statements are true about the efficient-market hypothesis?
a. It implies perfect forecasting ability.
b. It implies that prices reflect all available information.
c. It implies an irrational market.
d. It implies that prices do not fluctuate.
e. It results from keen competition among investors.
13.4 Aerotech, an aerospace-technology research firm, announced this morning that it has
hired the world’s most knowledgeable and prolific space researchers. Before today,
Aerotech’s stock had been selling for $100.
a. What do you expect will happen to Aerotech’s stock?
b. Consider the following scenarios:
i. The stock price jumps to $118 on the day of the announcement. In subsequent
days it floats up to $123 then falls back to $116.
ii. The stock price jumps to $116 and remains there.
iii. The stock price gradually climbs to $116 over the next week.
Which scenario(s) indicate market efficiency? Which do not? Why?
13.5 When the 56-year-old founder of Gulf & Western, Inc., died of a heart attack, the stock
price jumped from $18.00 a share to $20.25, a 12.5-percent increase. This is evidence of
market inefficiency, because an efficient stock market would have anticipated his death
and adjusted the price beforehand. Is this statement true or false? Explain.
13.6 On January 10, 1985, the following announcement was made: “Early today the Justice
Department reached a decision in the Universal Product Care (UPC) case. UPC has been
found guilty of discriminatory practices in hiring. For the next five years, UPC must pay
$2 million each year to a fund representing victims of UPC’s policies.” Should investors
366
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
373
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 13
Corporate-Financing Decisions and Efficient Capital Markets
367
not buy UPC stock after the announcement because the litigation will cause an
abnormally low rate of return? Why?
13.7 Newtech Corp. is going to adopt a new chip testing device that can greatly improve its
production efficiency. Do you think the lead engineer of this device can profit from
purchasing the firm’s stock before the news release on the implementation of the new
technology? What if you rush to call your broker to buy the stock right after you learn of
the announcement in The Wall Street Journal?
13.8 Trans Trust Corp. has changed how it accounts for inventory. The change does not change
tax, but the resulting earnings report released this quarter is 20 percent higher than what it
would have been under the old accounting system. There is no other surprise in this
earnings report. Will the stock price be higher when the market learns that the earnings
are higher?
13.9 Many empirical studies have documented that firms that issue stock usually experience a
period of price run-up before the public stock offering. Alex Johnson invests primarily in
firms that have just carried out new stock offerings. Based on the evidence that these
firms have generally performed very well before the stock offering, can Alex make
money using this strategy?
13.10 Sooners Investing Agency has been the hottest stock picker for the past two years.
Before the rise to fame occurred, subscribers to the Sooners newsletter totaled only 200.
Those subscribers beat the market consistently; they earned substantially higher returns
after adjustment for risk and transaction costs. Subscriptions have now skyrocketed to
10,000. Now when Sooners recommends a stock, the stock price instantly rises several
points. The subscribers now earn only a normal return when they buy recommended
stock because the price rises before anybody can act on the information. Briefly explain
this phenomenon.
13.11 In a recent discussion with you, your broker commented that well-managed firms are not
necessarily more profitable than firms with average management. To convince you of
this, she presented you with evidence from a recent study conducted by the firm for
which she works. The study examined the returns on 17 small manufacturing firms that,
eight years earlier, an industry magazine had listed as the best-managed small
manufacturers in the country. In the eight years since the publication of that issue of the
magazine, the 17 firms have not earned more than the market. Your broker concluded that
if they were well-managed, they should have produced better-than-average returns. Do
you agree with your broker?
13.12 A famous economist just announced his findings that the recession is over and the
economy is entering the expansion stage once again. Can you profit from investing in
the stock market after you learned this study result from reading The Wall Street
Journal?
13.13 Many investors (sometimes called technical analysts) claim to observe patterns in
stock market prices. Is technical analysis consistent with EMH? If the stock price
follows a random walk model, can technical analysts systematically profit from
trading rules based on patterns in the historical stock prices? If so, what form of
market efficiency is violated?
The Evidence
13.14 Some people argue that the EMH can’t explain the 1987 market crash or the high price-
to-earnings ratio of the Japanese stock market. What alternative hypothesis is currently
used for these two phenomena?
13.15 Prospectors, Inc., is a small publicly traded gold-prospecting company in Alaska.
Usually its searches prove fruitless; however, occasionally the prospectors find a rich
vein of ore.
a. What pattern would you expect to observe for Prospectors’cumulative abnormal returns?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
374
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
b. Is this a random walk? Explain.
c. Is this consistent with an efficient market? Explain.
13.16 You are conducting a cumulative average residual study on the effect of airline
companies’ buying new planes. The announcement dates for the purchase of the planes
were July 18 (7/18) for Delta, February 12 (2/12) for United, and October 7 (10/7) for
American. Construct a cumulative abnormal return (CAR) for these stocks as a group,
chart it, and explain it. All stocks have a beta of 1.
Delta
United
American
______________________
_______________________
______________________
Market
Company
Market
Company
Market
Company
Date
Return
Return
Date
Return
Return
Date
Return
Return
7/12
0.3
0.5
2/8
0.9
1.1
10/1
0.5
0.3
7/13
0.0
0.2
2/9
1.0
1.1
10/2
0.4
0.6
7/16
0.5
0.7
2/10
0.4
0.2
10/3
1.1
1.1
7/17
0.5
0.3
2/11
0.6
0.8
10/6
0.1
0.3
7/18
2.2
1.1
2/12
0.3
0.1
10/7
2.2
0.3
7/19
0.9
0.7
2/15
1.1
1.2
10/8
0.5
0.5
7/20
1.0
1.1
2/16
0.5
0.5
10/9
0.3
0.2
7/23
0.7
0.5
2/17
0.3
0.2
10/10
0.3
0.1
7/24
0.2
0.1
2/18
0.3
0.2
10/13
0.0
0.1
13.17 The following diagram shows the cumulative abnormal returns on the stock prices of
386 oil- and gas-exploration companies that announced oil discoveries in month 0. The
sample was drawn from 1950 to 1980, and no single month had more than six
announcements. Is the diagram consistent with market efficiency? Why or why not?
13.18 The following diagram represents the hypothetical results of a study of the behavior of
the stock prices of firms that lost antitrust cases. Included are all firms that lost the initial
court decision, even if it was later overturned on appeal. Is the diagram consistent with
market efficiency? Why or why not.?
CARt (%)
15
10
5
0
–5
–6
–4
–2
0
2
4
6
8
Time in months relative to event month
368
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
375
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 13
Corporate-Financing Decisions and Efficient Capital Markets
369
13.19 The following figures present the results of four cumulative-average-residual studies
conducted to test the semistrong form of the efficient-market hypothesis. Indicate in each
case whether the results of the study support, reject, or are inconclusive about the
hypothesis. In each figure, time 0 is the date of an event.
13.20 Several years ago, just before Arco purchased the firm, Kennecott Copper Corporation
had large amounts of marketable securities as a consequence of receiving compensation
for some overseas expropriations and other factors. For a period of time before Arco’s
purchase, the market value of Kennecott was actually less than the market value of the
marketable securities alone. Is this evidence of market inefficiency?
CARt
CARt
B
A
t
t
Time
Time
CARt
CARt
Time
Time
t
t
D
C
0
0
0
0
12
6
0
–6
–12
Time in months relative to event month
0
–20
CARt (%)

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
13. Corporate−Financing 
Decisions and Efficient 
Capital Markets
376
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
13.21 Suppose the market is semistrong-form efficient. Can you expect to earn excess returns if
you make trades based on:
a. Your broker’s information about record earnings for a stock?
b. Rumors about a merger of a firm?
c. Yesterday’s announcement of a successful test of a new product?
13.22 Consider an efficient capital market in which a particular macroeconomic variable that
influences your firm’s net earnings is positively serially correlated. Would you expect
price changes in your stock to be serially correlated? Why or why not?
13.23 Although mutual fund managers frequently claim that they have investing strategies,
under the EMH, mutual fund managers should obtain the same returns after adjusting for
the risk level of their respective investments. Therefore, we can simply pick mutual funds
at random. Is this statement true or false? Explain.
13.24 A pension manager intends to unload a large block of Bob’s Toy Inc. shares.
a. What are the general empirical findings on the price effect of block trading?
b. Do you consider it a good idea for the pension manager to break up the trades to
several lots instead of one big block at a time?
c. What is the expected price effect if we assume that EMH holds?
13.25 Assume that markets are efficient. Suppose that during a trading day, important new
information is released for the first time concerning American Golf Inc. This information
indicates that the firm has lost a contract for a large golf-course project that the market
widely believed the firm had secured prior to the news. How would you expect the price
of a share of stock to react to this information?
a. The value of a share decreases over an extended period of time as investors begin to
sell shares in the company.
b. The value of a share will decrease to a price above what would be considered
appropriate, because of the greatly decreased demand for the shares. Eventually the
price would rise back up to the correct level.
c. The value of a share will decrease immediately to a price that reflects the value of the
new information.
d. More information would be needed to determine the movement in the price of the stock.
370
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
377
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Long-Term Financing: 
An Introduction
CHAPTER 14
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
T
his chapter introduces the basic sources of long-term financing: common stock, pre-
ferred stock, and long-term debt. Later chapters discuss these topics in more detail.
Perhaps no other area of corporate finance is more perplexing to new students of fi-
nance than corporate securities such as shares of stock, bonds, and debentures. Whereas the
concepts are simple and logical, the language is strange and unfamiliar.
The purpose of this chapter is to describe the basic features of long-term financing.
We begin with a look at common stock, preferred stock, and long-term debt and then
briefly consider patterns of the different kinds of long-term financing. Discussion of
nonbasic forms of long-term finance, such as convertibles and leases, is reserved for
later chapters.
14.1 COMMON STOCK
The term common stock has no precise meaning. It usually is applied to stock that has no
special preference either in dividends or in bankruptcy. A description of the common stock
of Anheuser-Busch in 1996 is presented below.
ANHEUSER-BUSCH
Common Stock and Other Shareholders’ Equity
December 31, 1999
(in millions)
Common stock, $1 par value, authorized 1.6 billion shares, issued 716.1 million shares
$
716.1
Capital in excess of par value
1,241.0
Retained earnings
9,181.2
Treasury stock, at cost
(6,831.3)
Other
ESOP debt guarantee
(210.5)
Foreign currency translation adjustment
(175.0)
_______
Total Equity
$3,921.5
Par and No-Par Stock
Owners of common stock in a corporation are referred to as shareholders or stockholders.
They receive stock certificates for the shares they own. There is usually a stated value on
each stock certificate called the par value. However, some stocks have no-par value. The
par value of each share of the common stock of Anheuser-Busch is $1.
The total par value is the number of shares issued multiplied by the par value of each
share and is sometimes referred to as the dedicated capital of a corporation. The dedicated
capital of Anheuser-Busch is $1  716.1 million shares  $716.1 million.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
378
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Authorized versus Issued Common Stock
Shares of common stock are the fundamental ownership units of the corporation. The arti-
cles of incorporation of a new corporation must state the number of shares of common stock
the corporation is authorized to issue.
The board of directors of the corporation, after a vote of the shareholders, can amend the
articles of incorporation to increase the number of shares authorized; there is no limit to the
number of shares that can be authorized. In 1999 Anheuser-Busch had authorized 1.6 billion
shares and had issued 716.1 million shares. There is no requirement that all of the authorized
shares actually be issued. Although there are no legal limits to authorizing shares of stock,
some practical considerations may exist:
1. Some states impose taxes based on the number of authorized shares.
2. Authorizing a large number of shares may create concern on the part of investors, be-
cause authorized shares can be issued later with the approval of the board of directors
but without a vote of the shareholders.
Capital Surplus
Capital surplus usually refers to amounts of directly contributed equity capital in excess
of the par value.
EXAMPLE
Suppose 100 shares of common stock have a par value of $2 each and are sold to
shareholders for $10 per share. The capital surplus would be ($10  $2)  100
 $8  100  $800, and the total par value would be $2  100  $200. What
difference does it make if the total capital contribution is reported as par value or
capital surplus?
About the only difference is that in most states the par value is locked in and cannot be
distributed to stockholders except upon the liquidation of the corporation.
The capital surplus of Anheuser-Busch is $1,241 million. This figure indicates that the
price of new shares issued by Anheuser-Busch has exceeded the par value and the difference
has been entered as capital in excess of par value. In most states shares of stock cannot be
issued below par value, implying that capital in excess of par value cannot be negative.
Retained Earnings
Anheuser-Busch usually pays out less than one half of its net income as dividends; the rest
is retained in the business and is called retained earnings. The cumulative amount of re-
tained earnings (since original incorporation) was $9,181.2 million in 1999.
The sum of the par value, capital surplus, and accumulated retained earnings is the com-
mon equity of the firm, which is usually referred to as the firm’s book value. The book value
represents the amount contributed directly and indirectly to the corporation by equity investors.
EXAMPLE
Suppose Western Redwood Corporation was formed in 1906 with 10,000 shares
of stock issued and sold at its $1 par value. Because the stock was sold for $1, the
first balance sheet showed a zero amount for capital surplus. By 1998 the company
372
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
379
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
had become very profitable and had retained profits of $100,000. The stockhold-
ers’ equity of Western Redwood Corporation in 1998 is as follows:
WESTERN REDWOOD CORPORATION
Equity Accounts
January 1, 1998
Common stock, $1 par, 10,000 shares outstanding
$ 10,000
Capital surplus
0
Retained earnings
100,000
________
Total stockholders’ equity
$110,000
Suppose the company has profitable investment opportunities and decides to sell
10,000 shares of new stock. The current market price is $20 per share. The effect
of the sale of stock on the balance sheet will be
WESTERN REDWOOD CORPORATION
Equity Accounts
December 31, 1998
Common stock, $1 par, 20,000 shares outstanding
$ 20,000
Capital surplus ($20  $1)  10,000 shares
190,000
Retained earnings
100,000
________
Total stockholders’ equity
$310,000
What happened?
1. Because 10,000 shares of new stock were issued with par value of $1, the
par value rose $10,000.
2. The total amount raised by the new issue was $20  10,000  $200,000,
and $190,000 was entered into capital surplus.
3. The book value per share increased because the market price of the new
stock was higher than the book value of the old stock.
Market Value, Book Value, and Replacement Value
The book value of Anheuser-Busch in 1999 was $3,921.5 million. This figure is based on
the number of shares outstanding. The company had issued 716.1 million shares and
bought back approximately 263.4 million shares, so that the total number of outstanding
shares was 716.1 million  263.4 million  452.7 million. The shares bought back are
called treasury stock.
The book value per share was equal to
Anheuser-Busch is a publicly owned company. Its common stock trades on the New York
Stock Exchange (NYSE), and thousands of shares change hands every day. The recent mar-
ket prices of Anheuser-Busch were between $75 and $84 per share. Thus the market prices
were above the book value.
Total common shareholders, equity
Shares outstanding
 $3,921.5 million
452.7 million
 $8.66
Book value per share  $310,000
20,000
 $15.5
Book value per share  $110,000
10,000
 $11
Chapter 14
Long-Term Financing: An Introduction
373

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
380
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
In addition to market and book values, you may hear the term replacement value. This
refers to the current cost of replacing the assets of the firm. Market, book, and replacement
value are equal at the time when a firm purchases an asset. After that time, these values will
diverge. The market-to-book-value ratio of common stock and Tobin’s Q (market value of
assets/replacement value of assets) introduced in the appendix to Chapter 2 are indicators
of the success of the firm. A market-to-book or Tobin’s Q ratio greater than 1 indicates the
firm has done well with its investment decisions.
Shareholders’ Rights
The conceptual structure of the corporation assumes that shareholders elect directors who
in turn elect corporate officers—more generally, the management—to carry out their di-
rectives. It is the right to elect the directors of the corporation by vote that constitutes the
most important control device of shareholders.
Directors are elected each year at an annual meeting by a vote of the holders of a ma-
jority of shares who are present and entitled to vote. The exact mechanism for electing dif-
fers among different companies. The most important difference is whether shares must be
voted cumulatively or must be voted straight.
EXAMPLE
Imagine that a corporation has two shareholders: Smith with 25 shares and Mar-
shall with 75 shares. Both want to be on the board of directors. Marshall does not
want Smith to be a director. Let us assume that there are four directors to be elected
and each shareholder nominates four candidates.
Cumulative Voting
The effect of cumulative voting is to permit minority participa-
tion. If cumulative voting is permitted, the total number of votes that each shareholder
may cast is determined first. That number is usually calculated as the number of shares
(owned or controlled) multiplied by the number of directors to be elected. Each share-
holder can distribute these votes as he or she wishes over one or more candidates. Smith
will get 25  4  100 votes, and Marshall is entitled to 75  4  300 votes. If Smith
gives all his votes to himself, he is assured of a directorship. It is not possible for Mar-
shall to divide 300 votes among the four candidates in such a way as to preclude Smith’s
election to the board.
Straight Voting
If straight voting is permitted, Smith may cast 25 votes for each candi-
date and Marshall may cast 75 votes for each. As a consequence, Marshall will elect all of
the candidates.
Straight voting can freeze out minority shareholders; that is the reason many states
have mandatory cumulative voting. In states where cumulative voting is mandatory, devices
have been worked out to minimize its impact. One such device is to stagger the voting for
the board of directors. Staggering permits a fraction of the directorships to come to a vote
at a particular time. It has two basic effects:
1. Staggering makes it more difficult for a minority to elect a director when there is cumu-
lative voting.
2. Staggering makes successful takeover attempts less likely by making the election of new
directors more difficult.
374
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
381
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Proxy Voting
A proxy is the legal grant of authority by a shareholder to someone else to
vote his or her shares. For convenience, the actual voting in large public corporations usu-
ally is done by proxy.
Many companies such as Anheuser-Busch have hundreds of thousands of sharehold-
ers. Shareholders can come to the annual meeting and vote in person, or they can transfer
their right to vote to another party by proxy.
Obviously, management always tries to get as many proxies transferred to it as possi-
ble. However, if shareholders are not satisfied with management, an outside group of share-
holders can try to obtain as many votes as possible via proxy. They can vote to replace man-
agement by adding enough directors. This is called a proxy fight.
Other Rights
The value of a share of common stock in a corporation is directly related
to the general rights of shareholders. In addition to the right to vote for directors, share-
holders usually have the following rights:
1. The right to share proportionally in dividends paid.
2. The right to share proportionally in assets remaining after liabilities have been paid in a
liquidation.
3. The right to vote on matters of great importance to stockholders, such as a merger, usu-
ally decided at the annual meeting or a special meeting.
4. The right to share proportionally in any new stock sold. This is called the preemptive
right and will be discussed in detail in later chapters.
Dividends
A distinctive feature of corporations is that they issue shares of stock and are authorized by
law to pay dividends to the holders of those shares. Dividends paid to shareholders repre-
sent a return on the capital directly or indirectly contributed to the corporation by the share-
holders. The payment of dividends is at the discretion of the board of directors.
Here are some important characteristics of dividends:
1. Unless a dividend is declared by the board of directors of a corporation, it is not a lia-
bility of the corporation. A corporation cannot default on an undeclared dividend. As a
consequence, corporations cannot become bankrupt because of nonpayment of divi-
dends. The amount of the dividend—and even whether or not it is paid—are decisions
based on the business judgment of the board of directors.
2. The payment of dividends by the corporation is not a business expense. Dividends are
not deductible for corporate tax purposes. In short, dividends are paid out of after-tax
profits of the corporation.
3. Dividends received by individual shareholders are for the most part considered ordinary
income by the IRS and are fully taxable. However, corporations that own stock in other
corporations are permitted to exclude 70 percent of the amounts they receive as divi-
dends. In other words, they are taxed only on the remaining 30 percent.
Classes of Stock
Some firms issue more than one class of common stock. The classes are usually created with
unequal voting rights. The Ford Motor Company has Class B common stock, which is not pub-
licly traded (it is held by Ford family interests and trusts). This class has about 40 percent of the
voting power, but these shares comprise only about 15 percent of the total outstanding stock.
Chapter 14
Long-Term Financing: An Introduction
375

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
382
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Many companies issue dual classes of common stock. The reason has to do with con-
trol of the firm. Management of a firm can raise equity capital by issuing nonvoting com-
mon stock while maintaining voting control. Harry and Linda DeAngelo found that man-
agements’ holdings of common stock are usually tilted toward the stock with the superior
voting rights.1 Thus, managerial vote ownership is an important element of corporate con-
trol structure.
Lease, McConnell, and Mikkelson found the market prices of stocks with superior vot-
ing rights to be about 5 percent higher than the prices of otherwise identical stocks with infe-
rior voting rights.2 However, DeAngelo and DeAngelo found some evidence that the market
value of differences in voting rights may be much higher when control of the firm is involved.
• What is a company’s book value?
• What rights do stockholders have?
• What is a proxy?
14.2 CORPORATE LONG-TERM DEBT: THE BASICS
Securities issued by corporations may be classified roughly as equity securities and debt se-
curities. The distinction between equity and debt is basic to much of the modern theory and
practice of corporate finance.
At its crudest level, debt represents something that must be repaid; it is the result of
borrowing money. When corporations borrow, they promise to make regularly scheduled
interest payments and to repay the original amount borrowed (that is, the principal). The
person or firm making the loan is called a creditor or lender.
Interest versus Dividends
The corporation borrowing the money is called a debtor or borrower. The amount owed the
creditor is a liability of the corporation; however, it is a liability of limited value. The cor-
poration can legally default at any time on its liability.3 This can be a valuable option. The
creditors benefit if the assets have a value greater than the value of the liability, but this would
happen only if management were foolish. On the other hand, the corporation and the equity
investors benefit if the value of the assets is less than the value of the liabilities, because eq-
uity investors are able to walk away from the liabilities and default on their payment.
From a financial point of view, the main differences between debt and equity are the
following:
1. Debt is not an ownership interest in the firm. Creditors do not usually have voting
power. The device used by creditors to protect themselves is the loan contract (that is,
the indenture).
2. The corporation’s payment of interest on debt is considered a cost of doing business and
is fully tax-deductible. Thus interest expense is paid out to creditors before the corporate
tax liability is computed. Dividends on common and preferred stock are paid to share-
376
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
1H. DeAngelo and L. DeAngelo, “Managerial Ownership of Voting Rights: A Study of Public Corporations with
Dual Classes of Common Stock,” Journal of Financial Economics 14 (1985).
2R. C. Lease, J. J. McConnell, and W. H. Mikkelson, “The Market Value of Control in Publicly Traded
Corporations,” Journal of Financial Economics (April 1983).
3In practice, creditors can make a claim against the assets of the firm and a court will administer the legal remedy.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
383
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
holders after the tax liability has been determined. Dividends are considered a return to
shareholders on their contributed capital. Because interest expense can be used to reduce
taxes, the government (that is, the IRS) is providing a direct tax subsidy on the use of debt
when compared to equity. This point is discussed in detail in the next two chapters.
3. Unpaid debt is a liability of the firm. If it is not paid, the creditors can legally claim the
assets of the firm. This action may result in liquidation and bankruptcy. Thus one of the
costs of issuing debt is the possibility of financial failure, which does not arise when eq-
uity is issued.
Is It Debt or Equity?
Sometimes it is not clear whether a particular security is debt or equity. For example, sup-
pose a 50-year bond is issued with interest payable solely from corporate income if and only
if earned, and repayment is subordinate to all other debts of the business. Corporations are
very adept at creating hybrid securities that look like equity but are called debt. Obviously,
the distinction between debt and equity is important for tax purposes. When corporations
try to create a debt security that is really equity, they are trying to obtain the tax benefits of
debt while eliminating its bankruptcy costs.
Basic Features of Long-Term Debt
Long-term corporate debt usually is denominated in units of $1,000 called the principal or
face value.4 Long-term debt is a promise by the borrowing firm to repay the principal
amount by a certain date, called the maturity date. Long-term debt almost always has a par
value equal to the face value, and debt price is often expressed as a percentage of the par
value. For example, it might be said that General Motors debt is selling at 90, which means
that a bond with a par value of $1,000 can be purchased for $900. In this case the debt is
selling at a discount because the market price is less than the par value. Debt can also sell
at a premium with respect to par value. The borrower using long-term debt generally pays
interest at a rate expressed as a fraction of par value. Thus, at $1,000 par value, General Mo-
tors’7-percent debt means that $70 of interest is paid to holders of the debt, usually in semi-
annual installments (for example, $35 on June 30 and December 31). The payment sched-
ules are in the form of coupons that are detached from the debt certificates and sent to the
company for payment.
Different Types of Debt
Typical debt securities are called notes, debentures, or bonds. A debenture is an unsecured
corporate debt, whereas a bond is secured by a mortgage on the corporate property. How-
ever, in common usage the word bond is used indiscriminately and often refers to both se-
cured and unsecured debt. A note usually refers to an unsecured debt with a maturity shorter
than that of a debenture, perhaps under 10 years.
Debentures and bonds are long-term debt. Long-term debt is any obligation that is
payable more than one year from the date it was originally issued. Sometimes long-term
debt—debentures and bonds—is called funded debt. Debt that is due in less than one year
is unfunded and is accounted for as a current liability. Some debt is perpetual and has no
specific maturity. This type of debt is referred to as a consol.
Chapter 14
Long-Term Financing: An Introduction
377
4Many government bonds have larger principal denominations, up to $10,000 or $25,000, and most municipal
bonds come in denominations of $5,000.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
384
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Repayment
Long-term debt is typically repaid in regular amounts over the life of the debt. The payment
of long-term debt by installments is called amortization. At the end of the amortization the
entire indebtedness is said to be extinguished. Amortization is typically arranged by a sink-
ing fund. Each year the corporation places money into a sinking fund, and the money is used
to buy back the bonds.
Debt may be extinguished before maturity by a call. Historically, almost all publicly
issued corporate long-term debt has been callable.5 These are debentures or bonds for
which the firm has the right to pay a specific amount, the call price, to retire (extinguish)
the debt before the stated maturity date. The call price is always higher than the par value
of the debt. Debt that is callable at 105 is debt that the firm can buy back from the holder at
a price of $1,050 per debenture or bond, regardless of what the market value of the debt
might be. Call prices are always specified when the debt is originally issued. However,
lenders are given a 5-year to 10-year call-protection period during which the debt cannot be
called away. Recently there has been a higher incidence of noncallable offerings.
Seniority
In general terms seniority indicates preference in position over other lenders. Some debt is
subordinated. In the event of default, holders of subordinated debt must give preference to
other specified creditors. Usually, this means that the subordinated lenders will be paid off
only after the specified creditors have been compensated. However, debt cannot be subor-
dinated to equity.
Security
Security is a form of attachment to property; it provides that the property can be sold in the
event of default to satisfy the debt for which security is given. A mortgage is used for se-
curity in tangible property; for example, debt can be secured by mortgages on plant and
equipment. Holders of such debt have prior claim on the mortgaged assets in case of de-
fault. Debentures are not secured by a mortgage. Thus, if mortgaged property is sold in the
event of default, debenture holders will obtain something only if the mortgage bondholders
have been fully satisfied.
Indenture
The written agreement between the corporate debt issuer and the lender, setting forth ma-
turity date, interest rate, and all other terms, is called an indenture. We treat this in detail in
later chapters. For now, we note that
1. The indenture completely describes the nature of the indebtedness.
2. It lists all restrictions placed on the firm by the lenders. These restrictions are placed in
restrictive covenants.
Some typical restrictive covenants are the following:
1. Restrictions on further indebtedness.
2. A maximum on the amount of dividends that can be paid.
3. A minimum level of working capital.
378
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
5When issued, callable industrial corporate debt typically has 10-year protection against being called.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
385
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
The following table shows some of the many long-term debt securities of 
Anheuser-Busch at the end of 1999 (in millions).
Commercial paper (weighted average interest rates 
between 5.1% and 5.5%). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1,000.0
Medium-term notes due 2000 to 2001 (interest rates 
from 5.1% to 8.0%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32.5
4.1% dual-currency notes due 2001 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 162.8
6.9% notes due 2002. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200.0
6.75% notes due 2003. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200.0
6.75% notes due 2005. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200.0
7% notes due 2005 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100.0
6.75% notes due 2006. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 250.0
9% debentures due 2009. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 350.0
7.25% debentures due 2015 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 150.0
7.375% debentures due 2023 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200.0
7% debentures due 2025. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200.0
Industrial revenue bonds. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 157.4
ESOP debt guarantee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 210.5
Other long-term debt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33.9
Anheuser-Busch has many different notes and debentures. As can be seen, there
is $1 billion of commercial paper. Commercial paper refers to short-term unse-
cured notes. It is listed as long-term debt because it will be maintained on a long-
term basis by “rolling it over.” Anheuser-Busch has $162.8 million of Japanese
yen/Australian dollar notes. The company will have the choice of using Japan-
ese yen or Australian dollars for both interest and principal payments on these
notes. There is also a $210.5 million guarantee of Employee Stock Option Plan
(ESOP) debt.
• What is corporate debt? Describe its general features.
• Why is it sometimes difficult to tell whether a particular security is debt or equity?
14.3 PREFERRED STOCK
Preferred stock represents equity of a corporation, but it is different from common stock
because it has preference over common stock in the payment of dividends and in the assets
of the corporation in the event of bankruptcy. Preference means only that the holder of the
preferred share must receive a dividend (in the case of an ongoing firm) before holders of
common shares are entitled to anything.
Stated Value
Preferred shares have a stated liquidating value, usually $100 per share. The dividend pref-
erence is described in terms of dollars per share. For example, General Motors “$5 pre-
ferred” translates into a dividend yield of 5 percent of stated value.
Chapter 14
Long-Term Financing: An Introduction
379
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
386
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Cumulative and Noncumulative Dividends
A preferred dividend is not like interest on a bond. The board of directors may decide not
to pay the dividends on preferred shares, and their decision may not have anything to do
with current net income of the corporation. Dividends payable on preferred stock are ei-
ther cumulative or noncumulative. If preferred dividends are cumulative and are not paid
in a particular year, they will be carried forward. Usually both the cumulated (past) pre-
ferred dividends plus the current preferred dividends must be paid before the common
shareholders can receive anything. Unpaid preferred dividends are not debts of the firm.
Directors elected by the common shareholders can defer preferred dividends indefinitely.
However, if so,
1. Common shareholders must forgo dividends.
2. Though holders of preferred shares do not always have voting rights, they will typically
be granted these rights if preferred dividends have not been paid for some time.
Because preferred stockholders receive no interest on the cumulated dividends, some have
argued that firms have an incentive to delay paying preferred dividends.
Is Preferred Stock Really Debt?
A good case can be made that preferred stock is really debt in disguise. Preferred share-
holders receive a stated dividend only, and if the corporation is liquidated, preferred share-
holders get a stated value. In recent years, many new issues of preferred stock have had
obligatory sinking funds.
For all these reasons, preferred stock seems like debt, but, unlike debt, preferred stock
dividends cannot be deducted as interest expense when determining taxable corporate in-
come. From the individual investor’s point of view, preferred dividends are ordinary income
for tax purposes. For corporate investors, however, 70 percent of the amounts they receive
as dividends from preferred stock are exempt from income taxes.
The yields on preferred stock are typically very low. For example, Citigroup has a
Series F preferred stock with a stated $3.18 dividend. This dividend is perpetual, that is, it
will be paid each year by Citigroup forever unless called. However, holders of Series F pre-
ferred stock have no voting rights. Recently, the market price of the Citigroup preferred
stock was $46. The current dividend yield on the Citigroup preferred of 6.9 percent
($3.18/46) was slightly more than U.S. government bond yields on the same date. In fact,
it was less than the yield on Citigroup’s long-term debt. 
Corporate investors have an incentive to hold the preferred stock issued by other cor-
porations over holding their debt because of the 70-percent income tax exemption they
receive on preferred stock dividends. Because of this tax exclusion, corporate investors
pay a premium for preferred stock; as a consequence, the yields are low. Because indi-
vidual investors do not receive this tax break, most preferred stock in the United States is
owned by corporate investors.
Thus, there are two offsetting tax effects to consider in evaluating preferred stock:
a. Dividends are not deducted from corporate income in computing the tax liability of the
issuing corporation. This is the bad news.
b. When a corporation purchases preferred stock, 70 percent of the dividends received are
exempt from corporate taxation. This is the good news.
380
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
387
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The Preferred-Stock Puzzle
Effect (a) on page 380 represents a clear tax disadvantage to the issuance of preferred stock.
While (b) represents a tax advantage, both academics and practitioners generally agree that
(b) does not fully offset (a). In addition, preferred stock requires a regular dividend pay-
ment and thus lacks the flexibility of common stock. For these reasons, some have argued
that preferred stock should not exist.
Why then do firms issue preferred stock? While the nondeductibility of dividends from
taxable corporate income is the most serious obstacle to issuing preferred stock, there are
several reasons why preferred stock is issued.
1. Because of the way utility rates are determined in regulatory environments, regulated pub-
lic utilities can pass the tax disadvantage of issuing preferred stock on to their customers.
Consequently, a substantial amount of straight preferred stock is issued by utilities.
2. Companies reporting losses to the IRS may issue preferred stock. Because they have no
taxable income from which interest on debt can be deducted, preferred stock imposes no
tax penalty relative to debt. In other words, (a) does not apply.
3. Firms issuing preferred stock can avoid the threat of bankruptcy that exists with debt fi-
nancing. Unpaid preferred dividends are not debts of a corporation, and preferred share-
holders cannot force a corporation into bankruptcy because of unpaid dividends.
• What is preferred stock?
• Do you think it is more like debt or equity?
• What are three reasons why preferred stock is issued?
Chapter 14
Long-Term Financing: An Introduction
381
EQUITY VERSUS DEBT
Feature
Equity
Debt
Income
Dividends
Interest
Tax status
Dividends are taxed as personal 
Interest is taxed as personal 
income. Dividends are not a 
income. Interest is a business 
business expense.
expense, and corporations can
deduct interest when computing
corporate tax liability.
Control
Common stock and preferred
Control is exercised with loan 
stock usually have voting rights.
agreement.
Default
Firms cannot be forced into 
Unpaid debt is a liability of the 
bankruptcy for nonpayment of 
firm. Nonpayment results in 
dividends.
bankruptcy.
Bottom line: Tax status favors debt, but default favors equity. Control features of debt
and equity are different, but one is not better than the other.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
388
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
14.4 PATTERNS OF FINANCING
Firms use cash flow for capital spending and net working capital. Historically, U.S. firms have
spent about 80 percent of cash flow on capital spending and 20 percent on net working capital.
Table 14.1 summarizes the patterns of long-term financing for U.S. industrial firms from 1979
to 1999. Here we observe internal financing, debt financing, and external equity financing as
a percentage of total financing. For example, in 1999 capital spending by U.S. industrial firms
was $859.9 billion and increases in net working capital were $207 billion. In other words, to-
tal business investment spending was $1,066.9 billion (859.9  207  1,066.9). Capital spend-
ing was 
of the total, whereas net working capital was 
of 
the total.
In 1999, U.S. industrial firms generated $750.5 billion of internal cash flow. Because
total business spending exceeded internally generated cash flow (i.e., 1,066.9  750.5),
there was a financial gap. This is very typical of U.S. business finance. The financial gap
in 1999 was $316.4 billion (i.e., 1,066.9  750.5  316.4). The financial gap is made up
by external financing. The financial gap was 29.6% of total business spending, because in-
ternal cash flow was only 70.4% of total business spending.
One of the challenges of the financial manager is to finance the gap. In 1999, this meant
issuing $469.3 billion of new debt because net new equity actually shrank (by $153 billion)
due to stock buybacks. Figure 14.1 charts these patterns of finance.
Internal financing comes from internally generated cash flow and is defined as net in-
come plus depreciation minus dividends. External financing is net new debt and new shares
of equity net of buybacks.
Several features of long-term financing seem clear from Table 14.1.
1. Internally generated cash flow has dominated as a source of financing. Typically, be-
tween 70 and 90 percent of long-term financing comes from cash flows that corporations
generate internally.
2. Typically, total firm spending is greater than internally generated cash flow. A financial
deficit is created by the difference between total firm spending and internally generated
cash flow. For example, 70 percent of financing came from internal cash flow in 1999,
implying a financial deficit in that year of 30 percent (100%  70%). Debt was 47 per-
cent of total financing and 17 percent was financed from new stock issues. This fi-
nancial deficit has averaged about 30 percent in recent years (Figure 14.2).
3. In general, the financial deficit is covered by (1) borrowing and (2) issuing new equity,
the two sources of external financing. However, one of the most prominent aspects of ex-
ternal financing is that new issues of equity (both common stock and preferred stock) in
the aggregate seem to be unimportant. Net new issues of equity typically account for a
small part of total financing; in the late 1980s and very recently, this figure was negative.
4. Table 14.2 shows that firms in the United States generate more financing from internally
generated cash than firms in other countries. Firms in other countries rely to a greater
extent than U.S. firms on external equity.
These data are consistent with the results of a survey conducted by Gordon Donaldson
on the way firms establish long-term financing strategies.6 He found that:
6G. G. Donaldson, Corporate Debt Capacity: A Study of Corporate Debt Policy and Determination of
Corporate Debt Capacity (Boston: Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, 1961). See also S. C.
Myers, “The Capital Structure Puzzle,” Journal of Finance (July 1984).
207
1,066.9  19.4%
859.9
1,066.9  80.6%
382
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
389
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
383
I TABLE 14.1 Historical U.S. Financing Patterns (percent), 1979 to 1999
1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999
Uses of funds
Capital spending
84% 80% 66%
86%
65% 64%
78%
72%
67%
70%
71%
76%
87%
72%
84%
76%
80%
92%
81%
92%
80%
Net working capital
16
20
34
14
35
36
22
28
33
30
29
24
13
28
16
24
20
8
19
8
20
Total uses
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Sources of funds
Internal financing
79
65
66
80
74
71
83
77
79
80
79
77
97
86
84
72
67
87
79
81
70
External financing
21
35
34
20
26
29
17
23
21
20
21
23
3
14
16
28
33
13
21
19
30
New debt
18
31
37
18
20
45
36
41
37
46
45
36
1
9
12
34
42
23
35
51
47
New stock
3
4
3
2
6 16
19
18
16
26
24
13
4
5
4
6
9
10
14
32
17
Source: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Flow of Funds Accounts.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
390
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
384
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
1. The first form of financing used by firms for positive NPV projects is internally gener-
ated cash flow: net income plus depreciation minus dividends.
2. As a last resort a firm will use externally generated cash flow. First, debt is used. Com-
mon stock is used last.
These observations, when taken together, suggest a pecking order to long-term fi-
nancing strategy. At the top of the pecking order is using internally generated cash flow, and
at the bottom is issuing new equity.
• What is the difference between internal financing and external financing?
• What are the major sources of corporate financing?
• What factors influence a firm’s choices of external versus internal equity financing?
• What pecking order can be observed in the historical patterns of long-term financing?
Year
100
60
80
40
Percentage
20
0
–20
–40
1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988
1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998
Internal financing
New debt
New stock
1999
I FIGURE 14.1 Financing Decisions by U.S. Nonfinancial Corporations
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
391
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
14.5 RECENT TRENDS IN CAPITAL STRUCTURE
The previous section of this chapter established that U.S. firms from 1984 to 1990 and af-
ter 1993 issued large amounts of new debt to finance the retirement of shares of stock. This
pattern of financing suggests the question: Did the capital structure of firms change signif-
icantly in the 1980s and the mid 1990s? Unfortunately there is no precise answer to this 
important question. If we use book values (i.e., balance sheet values) the answer would be
yes. Figure 14.3 charts the book value of debt to the book value of debt plus equity for U.S.
Chapter 14
Long-Term Financing: An Introduction
385
Internal
cash flow
Uses of cash flow
(100%)
Source of cash flow
(100%)
Financial
deficit
External
cash flow
Internal
cash flow
(retained earnings
plus depreciation)
70%
Long-term debt
and equity
(net new issues of bonds
and stocks)
30%
Capital
expenditures
80%
Net working capital
plus other uses
20%
I FIGURE 14.2 The Long-Term Financial Deficit (1999)
The deficit is the difference between long-term financing uses and internal financing.
I TABLE 14.2 International Financing Patterns: 1991–1996 (sources of funds as a 
percent of total sources)
United States
Japan
United Kingdom
Germany
Canada
France
Internally generated funds
82.8
49.3
68.3
65.5
58.3
54.0
Externally generated funds
17.2
50.8
31.7
34.5
41.7
46.0
Increase in long-term debt
17.4
35.9
7.4
31.4
37.5
6.9
Increase in short-term debt
3.7
9.7
6.1
—
3.8
10.6
Increase in stock
3.5
5.1
16.9
—
10.3
12.4
Source: OECD, Financial Statements of Nonfinancial Enterprises.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
392
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
nonfinancial firms. There is an upward trend throughout the 1990s. However, if we used mar-
ket values instead of book values, this would not have been the case. As can be seen in Fig-
ure 14.4, when we use market values there is no upward trend in the use of debt by U.S. firms.
From 1988 to 1999 the amount of debt increased by 350 percent. The market value of equity
increased by almost 600 percent. Therefore, when observing the capital structures of firms,
it is important to distinguish between market values and book values. For example, suppose
a firm buys back shares of its own stock and finances the purchase with new debt. This would
seem to suggest that the firm’s reliance on debt should go up and its reliance on equity should
go down. After all, the firm has fewer shares of stock outstanding and more debt. The analy-
sis is more complicated than it seems because the market value of the firm’s remaining shares
of stock may go up and offset the effect of the increased debt. In fact, the market debt ratio
is remarkably stable over time and has trended downward in recent years.
Which Are Best: Book or Market Values?
In general, financial economists prefer the use of market values when measuring debt ra-
tios. This is true because market values reflect current rather than historical values. Most fi-
nancial economists believe that current market values better reflect true intrinsic values than
do historically based values. However, the use of market values contrasts with the perspec-
tive of many corporate practitioners.
Our conversations with corporate treasurers suggest to us that the use of book values
is popular because of the volatility of the stock market. It is frequently claimed that the in-
herent volatility of the stock market makes market-based debt ratios move around too much.
386
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
Book debt ratio (%)
Year
0.00%
1988
10.00%
20.00%
30.00%
40.00%
50.00%
60.00%
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
46.0%
47.8%
50.0%
50.2%
54.3%
54.7%
53.5%
53.7%
54.3%
54.3%
55.8%
57.0%
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
I FIGURE 14.3 Book Debt Ratio: Total Debt as a Percentage of Equity
and Debt for U.S. Nonfarm, Nonfinancial Firms from
1988 to 1999
Source: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Flow of Accounts.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
393
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
It is also true that restrictions of debt in bond covenants are usually expressed in book val-
ues rather than market values. Moreover, firms such as Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s use
debt ratios expressed in book values to measure credit worthiness.
A key fact is that whether we use book or market values, debt ratios for U.S. non-
financial firms generally have been below 60 percent of total financing in recent years.
14.6 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
The basic sources of long-term financing are long-term debt, preferred stock, and common
stock. This chapter describes the essential features of each.
1. We emphasize that common shareholders have
• Residual risk and return in a corporation.
• Voting rights.
• Limited liability if the corporation elects to default on its debt and must transfer some or
all of the assets to the creditors.
2. Long-term debt involves contractual obligations set out in indentures. There are many
kinds of debt, but the essential feature is that debt involves a stated amount that must be
Chapter 14
Long-Term Financing: An Introduction
387
Market debt ratio (%)
Year
0.00%
1988
20.00%
40.00%
60.00%
80.00%
100.00%
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
86.5%
72.2%
84.0%
61.4%
57.4%
52.8%
56.3%
45.8%
41.2%
35.5%
33.3%
34.9%
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
I FIGURE 14.4 Market Debt Ratio: Total Debt as a Percentage of the
Market Value of Equity and Debt for U.S. Nonfarm,
Nonfinancial Firms from 1988 to 1999
Source: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Flow of Funds.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
394
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
repaid. Interest payments on debt are considered a business expense and are tax
deductible.
3. Preferred stock has some of the features of debt and some of the features of common equity.
Holders of preferred stock have preference in liquidation and in dividend payments
compared to holders of common equity.
4. Firms need financing for capital expenditures, working capital, and other long-term uses.
Most of the financing is provided from internally generated cash flow. In the U.S., only about
25 percent of financing comes from new debt and new equity. Only firms in Japan have
historically relied more on external financing than on internal financing.
5. In the 1980s and recently, U.S. firms retired massive amounts of equity. These share buy-
backs have been financed with new debt.
KEY TERMS
Book value
372
Preferred stock
379
Capital surplus
372
Proxy
375
Common stock
371
Retained earnings
372
Cumulative voting
374
Seniority
378
Dividends
375
Straight voting
374
Internal financing
382
Subordinated
378
Pecking order
384
SUGGESTED READING
The following provides some data on the financial structure of industrial corporations:
Cost of Capital Quarterly. 1999 Yearbook. Ibbotson Associates, 2000.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Common Stock
14.1 Following are the equity accounts for Kerch Manufacturing.
Common stock, $2 par
$ 135,430
Capital surplus
203,145
Retained earnings
2,370,025
_________
Total
$2,708,600
a. How many shares are outstanding?
b. At what average price were the shares sold?
c. What is the book value of Kerch stock?
14.2 The Eastern Spruce equity accounts for last year are as follows:
Common stock, $1 par, 500 
shares outstanding
(1)
Capital surplus
$ 50,000
Retained earnings
100,000
________
Total
(2)
a. Fill in the missing numbers.
b. Eastern decided to issue 1,000 shares of new stock. The current price is $30 per share.
Show the effects of the new issue upon the equity accounts.
388
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
14. Long−Term Financing: 
An Introduction
395
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
14.3 Ulrich Inc.’s articles of incorporation authorize the firm to issue 500,000 shares of $5 par-
value common stock, of which 325,000 shares have been issued. Those shares were sold at
an average of 12 percent over par. In the quarter that ended last week, Ulrich earned
$260,000 net income; 4 percent of that income was paid as a dividend. Prior to the close of
the books, Ulrich had $3,545,000 in retained earnings. The company owns no treasury stock.
a. Create the equity statement for Ulrich.
b. Create a new equity statement that reflects the sale of 25,000 authorized but unissued
shares at the price of $4 per share.
14.4 The shareholders of the Unicorn Company need to elect seven new directors. There are
2 million shares outstanding. How many shares do you need to be certain that you can
elect at least one director if
a. Unicorn has straight voting?
b. Unicorn has cumulative voting?
14.5 Power Inc. is going to elect six board members next month. Betty Brown owns 17.3 percent
of the total shares outstanding. How confident can she be to have one of her candidate
friends be elected under the cumulative voting rule? And will her friend be elected for
certain if the voting procedure is changed to the staggering rule, under which shareholders
vote on three board members at a time?
14.6 a. An election is being held to fill two seats on the board of directors of a firm in which
you hold stock. There is a total of 420 shares outstanding. If the election is conducted
under cumulative voting and you own 120 shares, how many more shares must you
buy to be assured of earning a seat on the board?
b. The shareholders of Motive Power Corp. need to elect three new directors to the board.
There are 2,000,000 shares of common stock outstanding and current share price is $5.
If Motive Power uses cumulative voting procedures, how much will it cost to
guarantee yourself one seat on the Motive Power’s board?
Preferred Stock
14.7 What are the differences between preferred stock and debt?
14.8 Preferred stock doesn’t offer corporate tax shield on the dividends paid. Why do we still
observe some firms issuing preferred stock?
14.9 The yields on nonconvertible preferred stock are lower than the yields on corporate bonds.
a. Why is there a difference?
b. Which investors are the primary holders of preferred stock? Why?
Patterns of Financing
14.10 What are the main differences between corporate debt and equity? Why do some firms
try to issue equity in the guise of debt?
Recent Trends in Capital Structure
14.11 The Cable Company has $1 million of positive NPV projects it would like to take
advantage of. If Cable’s managers follow the historical pattern of long-term financing for
U.S. industrial firms, what will their financing strategy be?
Chapter 14
Long-Term Financing: An Introduction
389

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
396
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Capital Structure: 
Basic Concepts
CHAPTER 15
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
P
revious chapters of this book examined the capital-budgeting decision. We pointed
out that this decision concerns the left-hand side of the balance sheet. The last two
chapters began our discussion of the capital-structure decision,1 which deals with the
right-hand side of the balance sheet.
In general, a firm can choose among many alternative capital structures. It can issue
a large amount of debt or it can issue very little debt. It can issue floating-rate preferred
stock, warrants, convertible bonds, caps, and callers. It can arrange lease financing, bond
swaps, and forward contracts. Because the number of instruments is so large, the varia-
tions in capital structures are endless. We simplify the analysis by considering only com-
mon stock and straight debt in this chapter. The “bells and whistles,” as they are called on
Wall Street, must await later chapters of the text. The capital-structure decision we con-
sider is the decision to rely on debt. We examine the factors that are important in the choice
of a firm’s debt-to-equity ratio.
Our results in this chapter are basic. First we discuss the capital-structure decision in a
world with neither taxes nor other capital-market imperfections. Surprisingly, we find that the
capital-structure decision is a matter of indifference in this world. We next argue that there is
a quirk in the U.S. tax code that subsidizes debt financing. Finally, we show that an increase
in the firm’s value from debt financing leads to an increase in the value of the equity.
15.1 THE CAPITAL-STRUCTURE QUESTION AND THE
PIE THEORY
How should a firm choose its debt-equity ratio? We call our approach to the capital-struc-
ture question the pie model. If you are wondering why we chose this name, just take a look
at Figure 15.1. The pie in question is the sum of the financial claims of the firm, debt and
equity in this case. We define the value of the firm to be this sum. Hence, the value of the
firm, V, is
V  B  S
(15.1)
where B is the market value of the debt and S is the market value of the equity. Figure 15.1
presents two possible ways of slicing this pie between stock and debt: 40 percent–60 per-
cent and 60 percent–40 percent. If the goal of the management of the firm is to make the
firm as valuable as possible, then the firm should pick the debt-equity ratio that makes the
pie—the total value—as big as possible.
1It is conventional to refer to choices regarding debt and equity as capital-structure decisions. However, the term
financial-structure decisions would be more accurate, and we use the terms interchangeably.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
397
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
This discussion begs two important questions:
1. Why should the stockholders in the firm care about maximizing the value of the entire
firm? After all, the value of the firm is, by definition, the sum of both the debt and the
equity. Instead, why should the stockholders not prefer the strategy that maximizes their
interests only?
2. What is the ratio of debt to equity that maximizes the shareholders’ interests?
Let us examine each of the two questions in turn.
• What is the pie model of capital structure?
15.2 MAXIMIZING FIRM VALUE VERSUS MAXIMIZING
STOCKHOLDER INTERESTS
The following example illustrates that the capital structure that maximizes the value of the
firm is the one that financial managers should choose for the shareholders.
EXAMPLE
Suppose the market value of the J. J. Sprint Company is $1,000. The company cur-
rently has no debt, and each of J. J. Sprint’s 100 shares of stock sells for $10. A
company such as J. J. Sprint with no debt is called an unlevered company. Further
suppose that J. J. Sprint plans to borrow $500 and pay the $500 proceeds to share-
holders as an extra cash dividend of $5 per share. After the issuance of debt, the
firm becomes levered. The investments of the firm will not change as a result of this
transaction. What will the value of the firm be after the proposed restructuring?
Management recognizes that, by definition, only one of three outcomes can
occur from restructuring. Firm value after restructuring can be either (1) greater
than the original firm value of $1,000, (2) equal to $1,000, or (3) less than $1,000.
After consulting with investment bankers, management believes that restructur-
ing will not change firm value more than $250 in either direction. Thus, they view
firm values of $1,250, $1,000, and $750 as the relevant range. The original capi-
tal structure and these three possibilities under the new capital structure are pre-
sented next.
Chapter 15
Capital Structure: Basic Concepts
391
Value of firm
Value of firm
Stocks
40%
Stocks
60%
Bonds
60%
Bonds
40%
I FIGURE 15.1 Two Pie Models of Capital Structure
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
398
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Value of Debt plus Equity
No Debt
after Payment of Dividend
(original
(three possibilities)
capital
structure)
I
II
III
Debt
$
0
$ 500
$ 500
$500
Equity
1,000
750
500
250
______
______
______
____
Firm value
$1,000
$1,250
$1,000
$750
Note that the value of equity is below $1,000 under any of the three possi-
bilities. This can be explained in one of two ways. First, the chart shows the value
of the equity after the extra cash dividend is paid. Since cash is paid out, a divi-
dend represents a partial liquidation of the firm. Consequently, there is less value
in the firm for the equityholders after the dividend payment. Second, in the event
of a future liquidation, stockholders will be paid only after bondholders have
been paid in full. Thus, the debt is an encumbrance of the firm, reducing the value
of the equity.
Of course, management recognizes that there are infinite possible outcomes.
The above three are to be viewed as representative outcomes only. We can now de-
termine the payoff to stockholders under the three possibilities.
Payoff to Shareholders
after Restructuring
I
II
III
Capital gains
$250
$500
$750
Dividends
500
500
500
______
______
______
Net gain or loss to stockholders
$250
$
0
$250
No one can be sure ahead of time which of the three outcomes will occur.
However, imagine that managers believe that outcome I is most likely. They
should definitely restructure the firm because the stockholders would gain $250.
That is, although the price of the stock declines by $250 to $750, they receive $500
in dividends. Their net gain is $250  $250  $500. Also, notice that the value
of the firm would rise by $250  $1,250  $1,000.
Alternatively, imagine that managers believe that outcome III is most likely.
In this case they should not restructure the firm because the stockholders would
expect a $250 loss. That is, the stock falls by $750 to $250 and they receive $500
in dividends. Their net loss is $250  $750  $500. Also, notice that the value
of the firm would change by $250  $750  $1,000.
Finally, imagine that the managers believe that outcome II is most likely. Re-
structuring would not affect the stockholders’ interest because the net gain to
stockholders in this case is zero. Also, notice that the value of the firm is un-
changed if outcome II occurs.
This example explains why managers should attempt to maximize the value of the firm.
In other words, it answers question (1) in Section 15.1. We find in this example that:
Changes in capital structure benefit the stockholders if and only if the value of the firm 
increases.
392
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
399
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Conversely, these changes hurt the stockholders if and only if the value of the firm de-
creases. This result holds true for capital-structure changes of many different types.2 As a
corollary, we can say:
Managers should choose the capital structure that they believe will have the highest firm value,
because this capital structure will be most beneficial to the firm’s stockholders.
Note however that the example does not tell us which of the three outcomes is most
likely to occur. Thus, it does not tell us whether debt should be added to J. J. Sprint’s capi-
tal structure. In other words, it does not answer question (2) in section 15.1. This second
question is treated in the next section.
• Why should financial managers choose the capital structure that maximizes the value of
the firm?
15.3 FINANCIAL LEVERAGE AND FIRM VALUE: AN EXAMPLE
Leverage and Returns to Shareholders
The previous section shows that the capital structure producing the highest firm value is the
one that maximizes shareholder wealth. In this section, we wish to determine that optimal
capital structure. We begin by illustrating the effect of capital structure on returns to stock-
holders. We will use a detailed example which we encourage students to study carefully.
Once we have this example under our belts, we will be ready to determine the optimal cap-
ital structure.
Trans Am Corporation currently has no debt in its capital structure. The firm is con-
sidering issuing debt to buy back some of its equity. Both its current and proposed capital
structures are presented in Table 15.1. The firm’s assets are $8,000. There are 400 shares of
the all-equity firm, implying a market value per share of $20. The proposed debt issue is for
$4,000, leaving $4,000 in equity. The interest rate is 10 percent.
Chapter 15
Capital Structure: Basic Concepts
393
2This result may not hold exactly in a more complex case where debt has a significant possibility of default.
Issues of default are treated in the next chapter.
I TABLE 15.1 Financial Structure of Trans Am Corporation
Current
Proposed
Assets
$8,000
$8,000
Debt
$0
$4,000
Equity (market and book)
$8,000
$4,000
Interest rate
10%
10%
Market value/share
$20
$20
Shares outstanding
400
200
The proposed capital structure has leverage, whereas the current structure is all equity.
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
400
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The effect of economic conditions on earnings per share is shown in Table 15.2 for the
current capital structure (all-equity). Consider first the middle column where earnings are
expected to be $1,200. Since assets are $8,000, the return on assets (ROA) is 15 percent
( $1,200/$8,000). Because assets equal equity for this all-equity firm, return on equity
(ROE) is also 15 percent. Earnings per share (EPS) is $3.00 ( $1,200/400). Similar calcu-
lations yield EPS of $1.00 and $5.00 in the cases of recession and expansion, respectively.
The case of leverage is presented in Table 15.3. ROA in the three economic states is
identical in Tables 15.2 and 15.3, because this ratio is calculated before interest is consid-
ered. Since debt is $4,000 here, interest is $400 ( .10  $4,000). Thus, earnings after in-
terest is $800 ( $1,200  $400) in the middle (expected) case. Since equity is $4,000,
ROE is 20 percent ($800/$4,000). Earnings per share is $4.00 ( $800/200). Similar cal-
culations yield earnings of $0 and $8.00 for recession and expansion, respectively.
Tables 15.2 and 15.3 show that the effect of financial leverage depends on the com-
pany’s earnings before interest. If earnings before interest is equal to $1,200, the return on
equity (ROE) is higher under the proposed structure. If earnings before interest is equal to
$400, the ROE is higher under the current structure.
This idea is represented in Figure 15.2. The solid line represents the case of no lever-
age. The line begins at the origin, indicating that earnings per share (EPS) would be zero if
earnings before interest (EBI) were zero. The EPS rises in tandem with a rise in EBI.
The dotted line represents the case of $4,000 of debt. Here, EPS is negative if EBI is
zero. This follows because $400 of interest must be paid regardless of the firm’s profits.
Now consider the slopes of the two lines. The slope of the dotted line (the line with
debt) is higher than the slope of the solid line. This occurs because the levered firm has
fewer shares of stock outstanding than does the unlevered firm. Therefore, any increase in
EBI leads to a greater rise in EPS for the levered firm because the earnings increase is dis-
tributed over fewer shares of stock.
394
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
I TABLE 15.2 Trans Am’s Current Capital Structure: No Debt
Recession
Expected
Expansion
Return on assets (ROA)
5%
15%
25%
Earnings
$400
$1,200
$2,000
Return on equity (ROE)  Earnings/Equity
5%
15%
25%
Earnings per share (EPS)
$1.00
$3.00
$5.00
I TABLE 15.3 Trans Am’s Proposed Capital Structure: Debt  $4,000
Recession
Expected
Expansion
Return on assets (ROA)
5%
15%
25%
Earnings before interest (EBI)
$400
$1,200
$2,000
Interest
400
400
400
_____
______
______
Earnings after interest
$
0
$ 800
$1,600
Return on equity (ROE)
 Earnings after interest/Equity
0
20%
40%
Earnings per share (EPS)
0
$4.00
$8.00

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
401
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Because the dotted line has a lower intercept but a higher slope, the two lines must in-
tersect. The break-even point occurs at $800 of EBI. Were earnings before interest to be
$800, both firms would produce $2 of earnings per share (EPS). Because $800 is break-
even, earnings above $800 lead to greater EPS for the levered firm. Earnings below $800
lead to greater EPS for the unlevered firm.
The Choice between Debt and Equity
Tables 15.2 and 15.3 and Figure 15.2 are important because they show the effect of lever-
age on earnings per share. Students should study the tables and figure until they feel com-
fortable with the calculation of each number in them. However, we have not yet presented
the punch line. That is, we have not yet stated which capital structure is better for Trans Am.
At this point, many students believe that leverage is beneficial, because EPS is expected
to be $4.00 with leverage and only $3.00 without leverage. However, leverage also creates
risk. Note that in a recession, EPS is higher ($1.00 versus 0) for the unlevered firm. Thus, a
risk-averse investor might prefer the all-equity firm, while a risk-neutral (or less risk-averse)
investor might prefer leverage. Given this ambiguity, which capital structure is better?
Modigliani and Miller (MM) have a convincing argument that a firm cannot change the
total value of its outstanding securities by changing the proportions of its capital structure.
In other words, the value of the firm is always the same under different capital structures.
Chapter 15
Capital Structure: Basic Concepts
395
Debt
No debt
Advantage
to debt
Break-even point
Disadvantage
to debt
$400
$800
$1,200
$1,600
$2,000
–2
–1
0
1
2
3
4
5
Earnings per share
(EPS) in dollars
Earnings before
interest (EBI)
in dollars, no taxes
I FIGURE 15.2 Financial Leverage: EPS and EBI for the 
Trans Am Corporation

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
402
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
In still other words, no capital structure is any better or worse than any other capital struc-
ture for the firm’s stockholders. This rather pessimistic result is the famous MM
Proposition I.3
Their argument compares a simple strategy, which we call Strategy A, with a two-part
strategy, which we call Strategy B. Both of these strategies for shareholders of Trans Am
are illuminated in Table 15.4. Let us now examine the first strategy.
Strategy A—Buy 100 shares of the levered equity.
The first line in the top panel of Table 15.4 shows EPS for the proposed levered equity
in the three economic states. The second line shows the earnings in the three states for an in-
dividual buying 100 shares. The next line shows that the cost of these 100 shares is $2,000.
Let us now consider the second strategy, which has two parts to it.
Strategy B:
1. Borrow $2,000 from either a bank or, more likely, a brokerage house. (If the brokerage
house is the lender, we say that this is going on margin.)
2. Use the borrowed proceeds plus your own investment of $2,000 (a total of $4,000) to
buy 200 shares of the current unlevered equity at $20 per share.
The bottom panel of Table 15.4 shows payoffs under Strategy B, which we call the
homemade leverage strategy. First, observe the middle column, which indicates that 200
shares of the unlevered equity are expected to generate $600 of earnings. Assuming that the
396
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
3The original paper is F. Modigliani and M. Miller, “The Cost of Capital, Corporation Finance and the Theory
of Investment,” American Economic Review (June 1958).
I TABLE 15.4 Payoff and Cost to Shareholders of Trans Am Corporation under the Proposed
Structure and under the Current Structure with Homemade Leverage
Strategy A: Buy 100 Shares of Levered Equity
Recession
Expected
Expansion
EPS of levered equity (taken from last line of Table 15.3)
$0
$
4
$
8
Earnings per 100 shares
$0
$400
$800
Initial cost  100 shares @ $20/share  $2,000
Strategy B: Homemade Leverage
Recession
Expected
Expansion
Earnings per 200 shares
$1  200 
$3  200 
$5  200 
in current unlevered Trans Am
$ 200
$ 600
$1,000
Interest at 10% on $2,000
200
200
200
_____
_____
______
Net earnings
$
0
$ 400
$ 800
Initial cost  200 shares @ $20/share  $2,000  $2,000
Cost of stock
Amount
borrowed
Investor receives the same payoff whether she (1) buys shares in a levered corporation or (2) buys shares in an unlevered firm and borrows on
personal account. Her initial investment is the same in either case. Thus, the firm neither helps nor hurts her by adding debt to capital structure.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
403
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
$2,000 is borrowed at a 10 percent interest rate, the interest expense is $200 ( 0.10 
$2,000). Thus, the net earnings are expected to be $400. A similar calculation generates net
earnings of either $0 or $800 in recession or expansion, respectively.
Now, let us compare these two strategies, both in terms of earnings per year and in
terms of initial cost. The top panel of the table shows that Strategy A generates earnings of
$0, $400, and $800 in the three states. The bottom panel of the table shows that Strategy B
generates the same net earnings in the three states.
The top panel of the table shows that Strategy A involves an initial cost of $2,000.
Similarly, the bottom panel shows an identical net cost of $2,000 for Strategy B.
This shows a very important result. Both the cost and the payoff from the two strate-
gies are the same. Thus, one must conclude that Trans Am is neither helping nor hurting its
stockholders by restructuring. In other words, an investor is not receiving anything from
corporate leverage that he or she could not receive on their own.
Note that, as shown in Table 15.1, the equity of the unlevered firm is valued at $8,000.
Since the equity of the levered firm is $4,000 and its debt is $4,000, the value of the levered
firm is also $8,000. Now suppose that, for whatever reason, the value of the levered firm were
actually greater than the value of the unlevered firm. Here, Strategy A would cost more than
Strategy B. In this case, an investor would prefer to borrow on his own account and invest in
the stock of the unlevered firm. He would get the same net earnings each year as if he had
invested in the stock of the levered firm. However, his cost would be less. The strategy would
not be unique to our investor. Given the higher value of the levered firm, no rational investor
would invest in the stock of the levered firm. Anyone desiring shares in the levered firm
would get the same dollar return more cheaply by borrowing to finance a purchase of the un-
levered firm’s shares. The equilibrium result would be, of course, that the value of the lev-
ered firm would fall, and the value of the unlevered firm would rise until they became equal.
At this point, individuals would be indifferent between Strategy A and Strategy B.
This example illustrates the basic result of Modigliani-Miller (MM) and is commonly
called their Proposition I. We state this proposition as:
MM Proposition I (no taxes): The value of the levered firm is the same as the value of the un-
levered firm.
This is perhaps the most important result in all of corporate finance. In fact, it is gener-
ally considered the beginning point of modern managerial finance. Before MM, the effect of
leverage on the value of the firm was considered complex and convoluted. Modigliani and
Miller show a blindingly simple result: If levered firms are priced too high, rational investors
will simply borrow on their personal accounts to buy shares in unlevered firms. This substi-
tution is oftentimes called homemade leverage. As long as individuals borrow (and lend) on
the same terms as the firms, they can duplicate the effects of corporate leverage on their own.
The example of Trans Am Corporation shows that leverage does not affect the value of
the firm. Since we showed earlier that stockholders’ welfare is directly related to the firm’s
value, the example indicates that changes in capital structure cannot affect the stockhold-
ers’ welfare.
A Key Assumption
The MM result hinges on the assumption that individuals can borrow as cheaply as corpo-
rations. If, alternatively, individuals can only borrow at a higher rate, one can easily show
that corporations can increase firm value by borrowing.
Is this assumption of equal borrowing costs a good one? Individuals who want to buy
stock and borrow can do so by establishing a margin account with the broker. Under this
arrangement, the broker loans the individual a portion of the purchase price. For example,
Chapter 15
Capital Structure: Basic Concepts
397

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
404
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
the individual might buy $10,000 of stock by investing $6,000 of her own funds and bor-
rowing $4,000 from the broker. Should the stock be worth $9,000 on the next day, the in-
dividual’s net worth or equity in the account would be $5,000  $9,000  $4,000.4
The broker fears that a sudden price drop will cause the equity in the individual’s ac-
count to be negative, implying that the broker may not get her loan repaid in full. To guard
against this possibility, stock exchange rules require that the individual make additional
cash contributions (replenish her margin account) as the stock price falls. Because (1) the
procedures for replenishing the account have developed over many years, and (2) the bro-
ker holds the stock as collateral, there is little default risk to the broker.5 In particular, if
margin contributions are not made on time, the broker can sell the stock in order to satisfy
her loan. Therefore, brokers generally charge low interest, with many rates being only
slightly above the risk-free rate.
By contrast, corporations frequently borrow using illiquid assets (e.g., plant and equip-
ment) as collateral. The costs to the lender of initial negotiation and ongoing supervision,
as well as of working out arrangements in the event of financial distress, can be quite sub-
stantial. Thus, it is difficult to argue that individuals must borrow at higher rates than can
corporations.6
• Describe financial leverage.
• What is levered equity?
• How can a shareholder of Trans Am undo the company’s financial leverage?
15.4 MODIGLIANI AND MILLER: PROPOSITION II (NO TAXES)
Risk to Equityholders Rises with Leverage
At a Trans Am corporate meeting, a corporate officer said, “Well, maybe it does not matter
whether the corporation or the individual levers—as long as some leverage takes place. Lever-
age benefits investors. After all, an investor’s expected return rises with the amount of the lever-
age present.” He then pointed out that, as shown in Tables 15.2 and 15.3, the expected return
on unlevered equity is 15 percent while the expected return on levered equity is 20 percent.
However, another officer replied, “Not necessarily. Though the expected return rises
with leverage, the risk rises as well.” This point can be seen from an examination of Tables
15.2 and 15.3. With earnings before interest (EBI) varying between $400 and $2,000, earn-
ings per share (EPS) for the stockholders of the unlevered firm vary between $1.00 and
$5.00. EPS for the stockholders of the levered firm vary between $0 and $8.00. This greater
range for the EPS of the levered firm implies greater risk for the levered firm’s stockhold-
ers. In other words, levered stockholders have better returns in good times than do unlev-
ered stockholders but have worse returns in bad times. The two tables also show greater
range for the ROE of the levered firm’s stockholders. The above interpretation concerning
risk applies here as well.
398
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
4We are ignoring the one-day interest charge on the loan.
5Had this text been published before October 19, 1987, when stock prices declined by more than 20 percent, we
might have used the phrase “virtually no” risk instead of “little.”
6One caveat is in order. Initial margin or borrowing is currently limited by law to 50 percent of value. Certain
companies, like financial institutions, borrow over 90 percent of their firm’s market value. Individuals borrowing
against the stock of all-equity corporations cannot duplicate the debt of these highly levered corporations.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
405
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The same insight can be taken from Figure 15.2. The slope of the line for the levered
firm is greater than the slope of the line for the unlevered firm. This means that the levered
stockholders have better returns in good times than do unlevered stockholders but have
worse returns in bad times, implying greater risk with leverage. In other words, the slope of
the line measures the risk to stockholders, since the slope indicates the responsiveness of
ROE to changes in firm performance (earnings before interest).
Proposition II: Required Return to Equityholders 
Rises with Leverage
Since levered equity has greater risk, it should have a greater expected return as compen-
sation. In our example, the market requires only a 15-percent expected return for the un-
levered equity, but it requires a 20-percent expected return for the levered equity.
This type of reasoning allows us to develop MM Proposition II. Here, MM argue that
the expected return on equity is positively related to leverage, because the risk to equity-
holders increases with leverage.
To develop this position recall from Chapter 12 that the firm’s weighted average cost
of capital, rWACC, can be written as:7
(15.2)
where
rB
is the interest rate, also called the cost of debt
rS
is the expected return on equity or stock, also called the cost of equity or the
required return on equity
rWACC
is the firm’s weighted average cost of capital
B
is the value of the firm’s debt or bonds
S
is the value of the firm’s stock or equity
Formula (15.2) is quite intuitive. It simply says that a firm’s weighted average cost of
capital is a weighted average of its cost of debt and its cost of equity. The weight applied to
debt is the proportion of debt in the capital structure, and the weight applied to equity is the
proportion of equity in the capital structure. Calculations of rWACC from formula (15.2) for
both the unlevered and the levered firm are presented in Table 15.5.
An implication of MM Proposition I is that rWACC is a constant for a given firm, re-
gardless of the capital structure.8 For example, Table 15.5 shows that rWACC for Trans Am
is 15 percent, with or without leverage.
Let us now define r0 to be the cost of capital for an all-equity firm. For the Trans Am
Corp., r0 is calculated as:
As can be seen from Table 15.5, rWACC is equal to r0 for Trans Am. In fact, rWACC must al-
ways equal r0 in a world without corporate taxes.
r0  Expected earnings to unlevered firm
Unlevered equity
 $1,200
$8,000  15%
B
B  S  rB 
S
B  S  rS
Chapter 15
Capital Structure: Basic Concepts
399
7Since we do not have taxes here, the cost of debt is rB, not rB(1  TC) as it was in Chapter 12.
8This statement holds in a world of no taxes. It does not hold in a world with taxes, a point to be brought out
later in this chapter (see Figure 15.6).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
406
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Proposition II states the expected return of equity, rS, in terms of leverage. The exact
relationship, derived by setting rWACC  r0 and then rearranging formula (15.2), is9
MM Proposition II (no taxes):
(15.3)
Equation (15.3) implies that the required return on equity is a linear function of the firm’s
debt-to-equity ratio. Examining equation (15.3), we see that if r0 exceeds the debt rate, rB,
then the cost of equity rises with increases in the debt-equity ratio, B/S. Normally, r0 should
exceed rB. That is, because even unlevered equity is risky, it should have an expected return
greater than that of riskless debt. Note that equation (15.3) holds for Trans Am in its lev-
ered state:
0.20  0.15  $4,000
$4,0000.15  0.10
rS  r0  B
S r0  rB
400
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
I TABLE 15.5 Cost of Capital Calculations for Trans Am
Unlevered
firm:
*
†
Levered
firm:
*
‡
*10% is the interest rate.
†From the “Expected” column in Table 15.2, we learn that expected earnings after interest for the unlevered
firm are $1,200. From Table 15.1, we learn that equity for the unlevered firm is $8,000. Thus, rS for the
unlevered firm is:
‡From the “Expected” column in Table 15.3, we learn that expected earnings after interest for the levered firm
are $800. From Table 15.1, we learn that equity for the levered firm is $4,000. Thus rS for the levered firm is:
Expected earnings after interest
Equity
 $800
$4,000  20%
Expected earnings after interest
Equity
 $1,200
$8,000  15%
 $4,000
$8,000  20%
15%  $4,000
$8,000  10%
 $8,000
$8,000  15%
15% 
0
$8,000  10%
rWACC 
B
B  S  rB 
S
B  S  rS
9This can be derived from formula (15.2) by setting rWACC  r0, yielding:
.
(15.2)
Multiplying both sides by (B  S)/S yields:
.
We can rewrite the right-hand side as
.
Moving (B/S)rB to the right-hand side and rearranging yields:
.
(15.3)
rS  r0  B
S r0  rB
B
S rB  rS  B
S r0  r0
B
S rB  rS  B  S
S
 r0
B
B  S rB 
S
B  S rS  r0

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
407
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Figure 15.3 graphs equation (15.3). As you can see, we have plotted the relation be-
tween the cost of equity, rS, and the debt-equity ratio, B/S, as a straight line. What we wit-
ness in equation (15.3) and illustrate in Figure 15.3 is the effect of leverage on the cost of
equity. As the firm raises the debt-equity ratio, each dollar of equity is levered with addi-
tional debt. This raises the risk of equity and therefore the required return, rS, on the equity.
Figure 15.3 also shows that rWACC is unaffected by leverage, a point we made above.
(It is important for students to realize that r0, the cost of capital for an all-equity firm, is rep-
resented by a single dot on the graph. By contrast, rWACC is an entire line.)
Example Illustrating Proposition I and Proposition II
EXAMPLE
Luteran Motors, an all-equity firm, has expected earnings of $10 million per year
in perpetuity. The firm pays all of its earnings out as dividends, so that the $10 mil-
lion may also be viewed as the stockholders’expected cash flow. There are 10 mil-
lion shares outstanding, implying expected annual cash flow of $1 per share. The
cost of capital for this unlevered firm is 10 percent. In addition, the firm will soon
build a new plant for $4 million. The plant is expected to generate additional cash
flow of $1 million per year. These figures can be described as
Current Company
New Plant
Cash flow: $10 million
Initial outlay: $4 million
Number of outstanding shares: 10 million
Additional annual cash flow: $1 million
Chapter 15
Capital Structure: Basic Concepts
401
Debt-to-equity
ratio (B/S)
Cost of capital: r
(%)
rS
rB
rWACC
r0
I FIGURE 15.3 The Cost of Equity, the Cost of Debt, and the
Weighted Average Cost of Capital:
MM Proposition II with No Corporate Taxes
rS  r0  (r0  rB)B/S
rS is the cost of equity
rB is the cost of debt
r0 is the cost of capital for an all-equity firm
rWACC is a firm’s weighted average cost of capital. In a world 
with no taxes, rWACC for a levered firm is equal to r0.
r0 is a single point while rS, rB, and rWACC are all entire lines.
The cost of equity capital, rS, is positively related to the firm’s debt-
equity ratio. The firm’s weighted average cost of capital, rWACC, is
invariant to the firm’s debt-equity ratio.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
408
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The project’s net present value is
assuming that the project is discounted at the same rate as the firm as a whole. Be-
fore the market knows of the project, the market-value balance sheet of the firm is
LUTERAN MOTORS
Balance Sheet (all equity)
Equity:
$100 million
(10 million shares of stock)
The value of the firm is $100 million, because the cash flow of $10 million per
year is capitalized at 10 percent. A share of stock sells for $10 ($100 million/10
million) because there are 10 million shares outstanding.
The market-value balance sheet is a useful tool of financial analysis. Because
students are often thrown off guard by it initially, we recommend extra study here.
The key is that the market-value balance sheet has the same form as the balance
sheet that accountants use. That is, assets are placed on the left-hand side whereas
liabilities and owners’ equity are placed on the right-hand side. In addition, the
left-hand side and the right-hand side must be equal. The difference between a
market-value balance sheet and the accountant’s balance sheet is in the numbers.
Accountants value items in terms of historical cost (original purchase price less
depreciation), whereas financial people value items in terms of market value.
The firm will either issue $4 million of equity or debt. Let us consider the ef-
fect of equity and debt financing in turn.
Stock Financing
Imagine that the firm announces that, in the near future, it will raise
$4 million in equity in order to build a new plant. The stock price, and therefore the value
of the firm, will rise to reflect the positive net present value of the plant. According to
efficient markets, the increase occurs immediately. That is, the rise occurs on the day of
the announcement, not on the date of either the onset of construction of the power plant
or the forthcoming stock offering. The market-value balance sheet becomes
LUTERAN MOTORS
Balance Sheet
(upon announcement of equity issue to construct plant)
Old assets
$100 million
Equity
$106 million
(10 million shares of stock)
NPV of plant:
6 million
Total assets
$106 million
Note that the NPV of the plant is included in the market-value balance sheet.
Because the new shares have not yet been issued, the number of outstanding shares
remains 10 million. The price per share has now risen to $10.60 ($106 million/10
million) to reflect news concerning the plant.
Shortly thereafter, $4 million of stock is issued or floated. Because the stock
is selling at $10.60 per share, 377,358 ($4 million/$10.60) shares of stock are is-
4 million  $1 million
0.1

Old assets:  $10 million
0.1
 $100 million
 $4 million  $1 million
0.1
 $6 million
402
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
409
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
sued. Imagine that funds are put in the bank temporarily before being used to build
the plant. The market-value balance sheet becomes
LUTERAN MOTORS
Balance Sheet
(upon issuance of stock but before construction begins on plant)
Old assets
$100 million
Equity
$110 million
(10,377,358 shares of stock)
NPV of plant
6 million
Proceeds from new issue
of stock (currently
placed in bank)
4 million
Total assets
$110 million
The number of shares outstanding is now 10,377,358 because 377,358 new
shares were issued. The price per share is $10.60 ($110,000,000/10,377,358).
Note that the price has not changed. This is consistent with efficient capital mar-
kets, because the stock price should only move due to new information.
Of course, the funds are placed in the bank only temporarily. Shortly after the
new issue, the $4 million is given to a contractor who builds the plant. To avoid
problems in discounting, we assume that the plant is built immediately. The bal-
ance sheet then becomes
LUTERAN MOTORS
Balance Sheet
(upon completion of the plant)
Old assets
$100 million
Equity
$110 million
(10,377,358 shares of stock)
10 million
Total assets
$110 million
Though total assets do not change, the composition of the assets does
change. The bank account has been emptied to pay the contractor. The present
value of cash flows of $1 million a year from the plant are reflected as an asset
worth $10 million. Because the building expenditures of $4 million have already
been paid, they no longer represent a future cost. Hence, they no longer reduce
the value of the plant. According to efficient capital markets, the price per share
of stock remains $10.60.
Expected yearly cash flow from the firm is $11 million, $10 million of which
comes from the old assets and $1 million from the new. The expected return to eq-
uityholders is
Because the firm is all equity, rS  r0  0.10.
Debt Financing
Alternatively, imagine that the firm announces that, in the near fu-
ture, it will borrow $4 million at 6 percent to build a new plant. This implies yearly in-
rS  $11 million
$110 million  0.10
PV of plant: $1 million
0.1

Chapter 15
Capital Structure: Basic Concepts
403

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
410
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
terest payments of $240,000 ($4,000,000  6%). Again the stock price rises immedi-
ately to reflect the positive net present value of the plant. Thus, we have
LUTERAN MOTORS
Balance Sheet
(upon announcement of debt issue to construct plant)
Old assets
$100 million
Equity
$106 million
(10 million shares of stock)
NPV of plant:
6 million
Total assets
$106 million
The value of the firm is the same as in the equity financing case because
(1) the same plant is to be built and (2) MM prove that debt financing is neither
better nor worse than equity financing.
At some point, $4 million of debt is issued. As before, the funds are placed in
the bank temporarily. The market-value balance sheet becomes
LUTERAN MOTORS
Balance Sheet
(upon debt issuance but before construction begins on plant)
Old assets
$100 million
Debt
$4 million
NPV of plant
6 million
Equity
106 million
(10 million shares of stock)
Proceeds from debt
issue (currently
invested in bank)
4 million
Total assets
$110 million
Debt plus equity
$110 million
Note that debt appears on the right-hand side of the balance sheet. The stock price
is still $10.60, in accordance with our discussion of efficient capital markets.
Finally, the contractor receives $4 million and builds the plant. The market-
value balance sheet becomes
LUTERAN MOTORS
Balance Sheet
(upon completion of the plant)
Old assets
$100 million
Debt
$
4 million
PV of plant
10 million
Equity
106 million
(10 million shares of stock)
Total assets
$110 million
Debt plus equity
$110 million
The only change here is that the bank account has been depleted to pay the con-
tractor. The equityholders expect yearly cash flow after interest of
$10,000,000

$1,000,000

$240,000

$10,760,000
Cash flow on
Cash flow on
Interest:
old assets
new assets
$4 million  6%
The equityholders expect to earn a return of
$10,760,000
$106,000,000  10.15%
$4 million  $1 million
0.1

404
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
411
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
This return of 10.15 percent for levered equityholders is higher than the 10 percent re-
turn for the unlevered equityholders. This result is sensible because, as we argued ear-
lier, levered equity is riskier. In fact, the return of 10.15 percent should be exactly what
MM Proposition II predicts. This prediction can be verified by plugging values into
(15.3)
We obtain
This example was useful for two reasons. First, we wanted to introduce the
concept of market-value balance sheets, a tool that will prove useful elsewhere in
the text. Among other things, this technique allows one to calculate the price per
share of a new issue of stock. Second, the example illustrates three aspects of
Modigliani and Miller:
1. The example is consistent with MM Proposition I because the value of the firm
is $110 million after either equity or debt financing.
2. Students are often more interested in stock price than in firm value. We show that
the stock price is always $10.60, regardless of whether debt or equity financing
is used.
3. The example is consistent with MM Proposition II. The expected return to equi-
tyholders rises from 10 to 10.15 percent, just as formula (15.3) states. This rise
occurs because the equityholders of a levered firm face more risk than do the eq-
uityholders of an unlevered firm.
MM: An Interpretation
The Modigliani-Miller results indicate that managers cannot change the value of a firm by
repackaging the firm’s securities. Though this idea was considered revolutionary when it
was originally proposed in the late 1950s, the MM model and arbitrage proof have since
met with wide acclaim.10
MM argue that the firm’s overall cost of capital cannot be reduced as debt is substituted
for equity, even though debt appears to be cheaper than equity. The reason for this is that as
the firm adds debt, the remaining equity becomes more risky. As this risk rises, the cost of
equity capital rises as a result. The increase in the cost of the remaining equity capital off-
sets the higher proportion of the firm financed by low-cost debt. In fact, MM prove that the
two effects exactly offset each other, so that both the value of the firm and the firm’s over-
all cost of capital are invariant to leverage.
MM use an interesting analogy to food. They consider a dairy farmer with two choices.
On the one hand, he can sell whole milk. On the other hand, by skimming he can sell a com-
bination of cream and low-fat milk. Though the farmer can get a high price for the cream, he
gets a low price for the low-fat milk, implying no net gain. In fact, imagine that the proceeds
from the whole-milk strategy were less than those from the cream–low-fat-milk strategy.
Arbitrageurs would buy the whole milk, perform the skimming operation themselves, and
10.15%  10% 
$4,000,000
$106,000,000  10%  6%
rS  r0  B
S  r0  rB
Chapter 15
Capital Structure: Basic Concepts
405
10Both Merton Miller and Franco Modigliani were awarded separate Nobel Prizes, in part for their work on
capital structure.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
412
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
resell the cream and low-fat milk separately. Competition between arbitrageurs would tend
to boost the price of whole milk until proceeds from the two strategies became equal. Thus,
the value of the farmer’s milk is invariant to the way in which the milk is packaged.
Food found its way into this chapter earlier, when we viewed the firm as a pie. MM ar-
gue that the size of the pie does not change, no matter how stockholders and bondholders
divide it. MM say that a firm’s capital structure is irrelevant; it is what it is by some histor-
406
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
11Taken from GSB Chicago, University of Chicago (Autumn 1986).
IN THEIR OWN WORDS
In Professor Miller’s Words . . .
T
he Modigliani-Miller results are not easy to under-
stand fully. This point is related in a story told by
Merton Miller.11
“How difficult it is to summarize briefly the contribu-
tion of the [Modigliani-Miller] papers was brought home
to me very clearly last October after Franco Modigliani
was awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics in part—but,
of course, only in part—for the work in finance. The tele-
vision camera crews from our local stations in Chicago
immediately descended upon me. ‘We understand,’ they
said, ‘that you worked with Modigliani some years back
in developing these M and M theorems and we wonder if
you could explain them briefly to our television viewers.’
“ ‘How briefly?’ I asked.
“ ‘Oh, take ten seconds,’ was the reply.
“Ten seconds to explain the work of a lifetime! Ten
seconds to describe two carefully reasoned articles, each
running to more than thirty printed pages and each with
sixty or so long footnotes! When they saw the look of
dismay on my face, they said, ‘You don’t have to go into
details. Just give us the main points in simple, common-
sense terms.’
“The main point of the first or cost-of-capital article
was, in principle at least, simple enough to make. It said
that in an economist’s ideal world of complete and
perfect capital markets and with full and symmetric
information among all market participants, the total
market value of all the securities issued by a firm was
governed by the earning power and risk of its underlying
real assets and was independent of how the mix of secu-
rities issued to finance it was divided between debt
instruments and equity capital. . . .
“Such a summary, however, uses too many short-
handed terms and concepts, like perfect capital markets,
that are rich in connotations to economists but hardly so to
the general public. So I thought, instead, of an analogy
that we ourselves had invoked in the original paper. . . .
“ ‘Think of the firm,’I said, ‘as a gigantic tub of whole
milk. The farmer can sell the whole milk as is. Or he can
separate out the cream and sell it at a considerably higher
price than the whole milk would bring. (That’s the analog
of a firm selling low-yield and hence high-priced debt secu-
rities.) But, of course, what the farmer would have left
would be skim milk with low butterfat content and that
would sell for much less than whole milk. That corresponds
to the levered equity. The M and M proposition says that if
there were no costs of separation (and, of course, no
government dairy support programs), the cream plus the
skim milk would bring the same price as the whole milk.’
“The television people conferred among themselves
and came back to inform me that it was too long, too
complicated, and too academic.
“ ‘Don’t you have anything simpler?’they asked. I
thought of another way that the M and M proposition is
presented these days, which emphasizes the notion of
market completeness and stresses the role of securities as
devices for ‘partitioning’a firm’s payoffs in each possible
state of the world among the group of its capital suppliers.
“ ‘Think of the firm,’ I said, ‘as a gigantic pizza,
divided into quarters. If now you cut each quarter in half
into eighths, the M and M proposition says that you will
have more pieces but not more pizza.’
“Again there was a whispered conference among the
camera crew, and the director came back and said:
“ ‘Professor, we understand from the press release
that there were two M and M propositions. Can we try
the other one?’ ”
[Professor Miller tried valiantly to explain the second
proposition, though this was apparently even more
difficult to get across. After his attempt:]
“Once again there was a whispered conversation.
They shut the lights off. They folded up their
equipment. They thanked me for giving them the time.
They said that they’d get back to me. But I knew that I
had somehow lost my chance to start a new career as a
packager of economic wisdom for TV viewers in
convenient ten-second bites. Some have the talent for
it . . . and some just don’t.”

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
413
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 15
Capital Structure: Basic Concepts
407
ical accident. The theory implies that firms’ debt-equity ratios could be anything. They are
what they are because of whimsical and random managerial decisions about how much to
borrow and how much stock to issue.
Although scholars are always fascinated with far-reaching theories, students are perhaps
more concerned with real-world applications. Do real-world managers follow MM by treating
capital-structure decisions with indifference? Unfortunately for the theory, virtually all com-
panies in certain industries, such as banking, choose high debt-to-equity ratios. Conversely,
companies in other industries, such as pharmaceuticals, choose low debt-to-equity ratios. In
fact, almost any industry has a debt-to-equity ratio to which companies in that industry adhere.
Thus, companies do not appear to be selecting their degree of leverage in a frivolous or random
manner. Because of this, financial economists (including MM themselves) have argued that
real-world factors may have been left out of the theory.
Though many of our students have argued that individuals can only borrow at rates
above the corporate borrowing rate, we disagreed with this argument earlier in the chapter.
But when we look elsewhere for unrealistic assumptions in the theory, we find two:12
1. Taxes were ignored.
2. Bankruptcy costs and other agency costs were not considered.
We turn to taxes in the next section. Bankruptcy costs and other agency costs will be treated
in the next chapter. A summary of the main Modigliani-Miller results without taxes is pre-
sented in the accompanying boxed section.
• Why does the expected return on equity rise with firm leverage?
• What is the exact relationship between the expected return on equity and firm leverage?
• How are market-value balance sheets set up?
SUMMARY OF MODIGLIANI-MILLER
PROPOSITIONS WITHOUT TAXES
Assumptions:
• No taxes
• No transaction costs
• Individuals and corporations borrow at same rate
Results:
Proposition I: VL  VU (Value of levered firm equals value of unlevered firm)
Proposition II:
Intuition:
Proposition I:
Through homemade leverage, individuals can either duplicate or undo the
effects of corporate leverage.
Proposition II:
The cost of equity rises with leverage, because the risk to equity rises
with leverage.
rS  r0  B
S r0  rB
12MM were aware of both of these issues, as can be seen in their original paper.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
414
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
15.5 TAXES
The Basic Insight
The previous part of this chapter showed that firm value is unrelated to debt in a world with-
out taxes. We now show that, in the presence of corporate taxes, the firm’s value is posi-
tively related to its debt. The basic intuition can be seen from a pie chart, such as the one in
Figure 15.4. Consider the all-equity firm on the left. Here, both equityholders and the IRS
have claims on the firm. The value of the all-equity firm is, of course, that part of the pie
owned by the equityholders. The proportion going to taxes is simply a cost.
The pie on the right for the levered firm shows three claims: equityholders, debthold-
ers, and taxes. The value of the levered firm is the sum of the value of the debt and the value
of the equity. In selecting between the two capital structures in the picture, a financial man-
ager should select the one with the higher value. Assuming that the total area is the same
for both pies,13 value is maximized for that capital structure paying the least in taxes. In
other words, the manager should choose the capital structure that the IRS hates the most.
We will show that, due to a quirk in U.S. tax law, the proportion of the pie allocated to
taxes is less for the levered firm than it is for the unlevered firm. Thus, managers should se-
lect high leverage.
The Quirk in the Tax Code
EXAMPLE
The Water Products Company has a corporate tax rate, TC, of 35 percent and ex-
pected earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) of $1 million each year. Its entire
earnings after taxes are paid out as dividends.
The firm is considering two alternative capital structures. Under plan I, Water
Products would have no debt in its capital structure. Under plan II, the company
would have $4,000,000 of debt, B. The cost of debt, rB, is 10 percent.
408
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
All-equity firm
Levered firm
Equity
Taxes
Debt
Taxes
Equity
I FIGURE 15.4 Two Pie Models of Capital Structure under
Corporate Taxes
The levered firm pays less in taxes than does the all-equity firm.
Thus, the sum of the debt plus the equity of the levered firm is
greater than the equity of the unlevered firm.
13Under the MM propositions developed earlier, the two pies should be of the same size.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
415
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The chief financial officer for Water Products makes the following calculations:
Plan I
Plan II
Earnings before interest and corporate taxes (EBIT)
$1,000,000
$1,000,000
Interest (rBB)
0
(400,000)
_________
_________
Earnings before taxes (EBT)  (EBIT  rBB)
1,000,000
600,000
Taxes (TC  0.35)
(350,000)
(210,000)
_________
_________
Earnings after corporate taxes
650,000
390,000
(EAT)  [(EBIT  rBB)  (1  TC)]
Total cash flow to both stockholders and bondholders
$ 650,000
$ 790,000
[EBIT  (1  TC)  TCrBB]
The most relevant numbers for our purposes are the two on the bottom line.
Dividends, which are equal to earnings after taxes in this example, are the cash
flow to stockholders, and interest is the cash flow to bondholders. Here, we see
that more cash flow reaches the owners of the firm (both stockholders and bond-
holders) under plan II. The difference is $140,000  $790,000  $650,000. It does
not take one long to realize the source of this difference. The IRS receives less
taxes under plan II ($210,000) than it does under plan I ($350,000). The difference
here is $140,000  $350,000  $210,000.
This difference14 occurs because the IRS treats interest differently than it
does earnings going to stockholders. Interest totally escapes corporate taxation,
whereas earnings after interest but before corporate taxes (EBT) are taxed at the
35-percent rate. 
Present Value of the Tax Shield
The discussion above shows a tax advantage to debt or, equivalently, a tax disadvantage to
equity. We now want to value this advantage. The dollar interest is:
Interest 
rB

B
Interest rate
Amount borrowed
This interest is $400,000 (10%  $4,000,000) for Water Products. All this interest is tax-
deductible. That is, whatever the taxable income of Water Products would have been
without the debt, the taxable income is now $400,000 less with the debt.
Because the corporate tax rate is 0.35 in our example, the reduction in corporate taxes
is $140,000 (0.35  $400,000). This number is identical to the reduction in corporate taxes
calculated previously.
Algebraically, the reduction in corporate taxes is:
TC

rB  B
(15.4)
Corporate tax rate
Dollar amount of interest
Chapter 15
Capital Structure: Basic Concepts
409
14Note that stockholders actually receive more under plan I ($650,000) than under plan II ($390,000). Students
are often bothered by this since it seems to imply that stockholders are better off without leverage. However,
remember that there are more shares outstanding in plan I than in plan II. A full-blown model would show that
earnings per share are higher with leverage.





Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
416
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
That is, whatever the taxes that a firm would pay each year without debt, the firm will pay
TCrBB less with the debt of B. Expression (15.4) is often called the tax shield from debt.
Note that it is an annual amount.
As long as the firm expects to be in a positive tax bracket, we can assume that the cash
flow in expression (15.4) has the same risk as the interest on the debt. Thus, its value can
be determined by discounting at the interest rate, rB. Assuming that the cash flows are per-
petual, the present value of the tax shield is 
Value of the Levered Firm
We have just calculated the present value of the tax shield from debt. Our next step is to cal-
culate the value of the levered firm. The annual after-tax cash flow of an unlevered firm is
EBIT  (1  TC),
where EBIT is earnings before interest and taxes. The value of an unlevered firm (that is, a
firm with no debt) is the present value of EBIT  (1  TC),
where
VU  Present value of an unlevered firm
EBIT  (1  TC)  Firm cash flows after corporate taxes
TC  Corporate tax rate
r0  The cost of capital to an all-equity firm. As can be seen from
the formula, r0 now discounts after-tax cash flows.
As shown previously, leverage increases the value of the firm by the tax shield, which
is TCB for perpetual debt. Thus, we merely add this tax shield to the value of the unlevered
firm to get the value of the levered firm.
We can write this algebraically as:15
MM Proposition I (corporate taxes):
(15.5)
 VU  TCB
Equation (15.5) is MM Proposition I under corporate taxes. The first term in equation (15.5)
is the value of the cash flows of the firm with no debt tax shield. In other words, this term
is equal to VU, the value of the all-equity firm. The value of the levered firm is the value of
an all-equity firm plus TCB, the tax rate times the value of the debt. TCB is the present value
VL  EBIT  1  TC
r0
 TCrBB
rB
VU  EBIT  1  TC
r0
TCrBB
rB
 TCB
410
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
15This relationship holds when the debt level is assumed to be constant through time. A different formula would
apply if the debt-equity ratio was assumed to be a non-constant over time. For a deeper treatment of this point,
see J. A. Miles and J. R. Ezzel, “The Weighted Average Cost of Capital, Perfect Capital Markets and Project
Life,” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (September 1980).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
417
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
of the tax shield in the case of perpetual cash flows.16 Because the tax shield increases with
the amount of debt, the firm can raise its total cash flow and its value by substituting debt
for equity.
EXAMPLE
Divided Airlines is currently an unlevered firm. The company expects to generate
$153.85 in earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), in perpetuity. The corporate
tax rate is 35 percent, implying after-tax earnings of $100. All earnings after tax
are paid out as dividends.
The firm is considering a capital restructuring to allow $200 of debt. Its cost
of debt capital is 10 percent. Unlevered firms in the same industry have a cost of
equity capital of 20 percent. What will the new value of Divided Airlines be?
The value of Divided Airlines will be equal to17
 $500  $70
 $570
The value of the levered firm is $570, which is greater than the unlevered
value of $500. Because VL  B  S, the value of levered equity, S, is equal to $570
 $200  $370. The value of Divided Airlines as a function of leverage is illus-
trated in Figure 15.5.
Expected Return and Leverage under Corporate Taxes
MM Proposition II under no taxes posits a positive relationship between the expected re-
turn on equity and leverage. This result occurs because the risk of equity increases with
 $100
0.20  0.35  $200
VL  EBIT  1  TC
r0
 TCB
Chapter 15
Capital Structure: Basic Concepts
411
16The following example calculates the present value if we assume the debt has a finite life. Suppose the
Maxwell Company has $1 million in debt with an 8-percent coupon rate. If the debt matures in two years and
the cost of debt capital, rB, is 10 percent, what is the present value of the tax shields if the corporate tax rate is
35 percent? The debt is amortized in equal installments over two years.
Present Value of
Year
Loan Balance
Interest
Tax Shield
Tax Shield
0
$1,000,000
1
500,000
$80,000
0.35  $80,000
$25,454.54
2
0
40,000
0.35  $40,000
11,570.25
_________
$37,024.79
The present value of the tax savings is
The Maxwell Company’s value is higher than that of a comparable unlevered firm by $37,024.79.
17Note that, in a world with taxes, r0 is used to discount after-tax cash flows.
PV  0.35  $80,000
1.10
 0.35  $40,000
1.10 2
 $37,024.79

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
418
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
leverage. The same intuition also holds in a world of corporate taxes. The exact formula in
a world of corporate taxes is18
MM Proposition II (corporate taxes):
(15.6)
rS  r0  B
S  1  TC  r0  rB
412
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
Value of firm (V)
Debt (B)
570
VU = 500
0
200
VL
I FIGURE 15.5 The Effect of Financial Leverage on Firm Value: MM
with Corporate Taxes in the Case of Divided Airlines
VL  VU  TCB
 $500  (0.35  $200)
 $570
Debt reduces Divided’s tax burden. As a result, the value of the firm is positively related to debt.
18This relationship can be shown as follows: Given MM Proposition I under taxes, a levered firm’s market-value
balance sheet can be written as
VU  Value of unlevered firm
B  Debt
TCB  Tax shield
S  Equity
The value of the unlevered firm is simply the value of the assets without benefit of leverage. The balance sheet
indicates that the firm’s value increases by TCB when debt of B is added. The expected cash flow from the left-
hand side of the balance sheet can be written as
VUr0  TCBrB
(a)
Because assets are risky, their expected rate of return is r0. The tax shield has the same risk as the debt, so its
expected rate of return is rB.
The expected cash to bondholders and stockholders together is
SrS  BrB
(b)
Expression (b) reflects the fact that stock earns an expected return of rS and debt earns the interest rate rB.
Because all cash flows are paid out as dividends in our no-growth perpetuity model, the cash flows going
into the firm equal those going to stockholders. Hence (a) and (b) are equal:
SrS  BrB  VUr0  TCBrB
(c)
Dividing both sides of (c) by S, subtracting BrB from both sides, and rearranging yields
(d)
Because the value of the levered firm, VL, equals VU  TCB  B  S, it follows that VU  S  (1  TC)  B.
Thus, (d) can be rewritten as
(e)
Bringing the terms involving 
together produces formula (15.6).
1  TC  B
S
rS  S  1  TC  B
S
 r0  1  TC  B
SrB
rS  VU
S  r0  1  TC  B
SrB

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
419
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Applying the formula to Divided Airlines, we get
This calculation is illustrated in Figure 15.6.
Whenever r0  rB, rS increases with leverage, a result that we also found in the no-tax
case. As stated earlier in this chapter, r0 should exceed rB. That is, since equity (even unlev-
ered equity) is risky, it should have an expected return greater than that on the less risky debt.
Let’s check our calculations by determining the value of the levered equity in another
way. The algebraic formula for the value of levered equity is
The numerator is the expected cash flow to levered equity after interest and taxes. The de-
nominator is the rate at which the cash flow to equity is discounted.
For Divided Airlines we get19
the same result we obtained earlier.
The Weighted Average Cost of Capital rWACC and 
Corporate Taxes
In Chapter 12, we defined the weighted average cost of capital (with corporate taxes) as
rWACC  B
VL
 rB1  TC  S
VL
 rS
$153.85  0.10  $200 1  0.35
0.2351
 $370
S  EBIT  rBB  1  TC
rS
rS  0.2351  0.20  200
370  1  0.35  0.20  0.10
Chapter 15
Capital Structure: Basic Concepts
413
Debt-to-equity
ratio (B/S) 
Cost of capital: r 
rS
rB
rWACC
0.200 =  r0
0
0.100
0.2351
 200
——
370
I FIGURE 15.6 The Effect of Financial Leverage on the Cost of Debt
and Equity Capital
rs  r0  (1  TC) (r0  rb)B/S
 0.20  0.65  0.10 
 0.2351
Financial leverage adds risk to the firm’s equity. As compensation, the cost of equity rises with the firm’s risk. Note
that r0 is a single point, while rS, rB, and rWACC are all entire lines.
200
370

19The calculation suffers slightly from rounding error because we only carried the discount rate, 0.2351, out to
four decimal places.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
420
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Note that the cost of debt capital, rB, is multiplied by (1  TC) because interest is tax-
deductible at the corporate level. However, the cost of equity, rS, is not multiplied by this
factor because dividends are not deductible. In the no-tax case, rWACC is not affected by
leverage. This result is reflected in Figure 15.3, which we discussed earlier. However, since
debt is tax-advantaged relative to equity, it can be shown that rWACC declines with leverage
in a world with corporate taxes. This result can be seen in Figure 15.6.
For Divided Airlines, rWACC is equal to
 .1754
Divided Airlines has reduced its rWACC from 0.20 (with no debt) to 0.1754 with reliance
on debt. This result is intuitively pleasing because it suggests that, when a firm lowers its
rWACC, the firm’s value will increase. Using the rWACC approach, we can confirm that the
value of Divided Airlines is $570.
 $570
Stock Price and Leverage under Corporate Taxes
At this point, students often believe the numbers—or at least are too intimidated to dispute
them. However, they sometimes think we have asked the wrong question. “Why are we
choosing to maximize the value of the firm?” they will say. “If managers are looking out
for the stockholder’s interest, why aren’t they trying to maximize stock price?” If this ques-
tion occurred to you, you have come to the right section.
Our response is twofold: First, we showed in the first section of this chapter that the
capital structure that maximizes firm value is also the one that most benefits the interests of
the stockholders.20
However, that general explanation is not always convincing to students. As a second
procedure, we calculate the stock price of Divided Airlines both before and after the ex-
change of debt for stock. We do this by presenting a set of market-value balance sheets. The
market-value balance sheet for the company in its all-equity form can be represented as
DIVIDED AIRLINES
Balance Sheet
(all-equity firm)
Physical assets:
Equity
$500
(100 shares)
Assuming that there are 100 shares outstanding, each share is worth $5  $500/100.
Next imagine that the company announces that, in the near future, it will issue $200 of debt
to buy back $200 of stock. We know from our previous discussion that the value of the firm will
rise to reflect the tax shield of debt. If we assume that capital markets efficiently price securities,
the increase occurs immediately. That is, the rise occurs on the day of the announcement, not on
the date of the debt-for-equity exchange. The market-value balance sheet now becomes
$153.85
0.20
 1  0.35  $500
VL  EBIT  1  TC
rWACC
 $100
.1754
rWACC  
200
570  0.10  0.65  
370
570  0.2351
414
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
20At that time, we pointed out that this result may not exactly hold in the more complex case where debt has a
significant possibility of default. Issues of default are treated in the next chapter.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
421
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
DIVIDED AIRLINES
Balance Sheet
(upon announcement of debt issue)
Physical assets:
$500
Equity
$570
(100 shares)
Present value of tax shield:
TCB  35%  $200 
70
Total Assets
$570
Note that the debt has not yet been issued. Therefore, only equity appears on the right-hand
side of the balance sheet. Each share is now worth $570/100  $5.70, implying that the
stockholders have benefited by $70. The equityholders gain because they are the owners of
a firm that has improved its financial policy.
The introduction of the tax shield to the balance sheet is perplexing to many stu-
dents. Although physical assets are tangible, the ethereal nature of the tax shield both-
ers these students. However, remember that an asset is any item with value. The tax
shield has value because it reduces the stream of future taxes. The fact that one cannot
touch the shield in the way that one can touch a physical asset is a philosophical, not a
financial, consideration.
At some point, the exchange of debt for equity occurs. Debt of $200 is issued, and the
proceeds are used to buy back shares. How many shares of stock are repurchased? Because
shares are now selling at $5.70 each, the number of shares that the firm acquires is
$200/$5.70  35.09. This leaves 64.91 (100  35.09) shares of stock outstanding. The
market-value balance sheet is now
DIVIDED AIRLINES
Balance Sheet
(after exchange has taken place)
Physical assets:
$500
Equity
$370
(100  35.09  64.91 shares)
Present value of tax shield
70
Debt
200
Total assets
$570
Debt plus equity
$570
Each share of stock is worth $370/64.91  $5.70 after the exchange. Notice that the stock
price does not change on the exchange date. As we mentioned above, the stock price moves
on the date of the announcement only. Because the shareholders participating in the ex-
change receive a price equal to the market price per share after the exchange, they do not
care whether they exchange their stock or not.
This example was provided for two reasons. First, it shows that an increase in the value
of the firm from debt financing leads to an increase in the price of the stock. In fact, the
stockholders capture the entire $70 tax shield. Second, we wanted to provide more work
with market-value balance sheets.
A summary of the main results of Modigliani-Miller with corporate taxes is presented
in the accompanying boxed section.
• What is the quirk in the tax code making a levered firm more valuable than an otherwise
identical unlevered firm?
• What is MM Proposition I under corporate taxes?
• What is MM Proposition II under corporate taxes?
Chapter 15
Capital Structure: Basic Concepts
415
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
422
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
15.6 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1. We began our discussion of the capital-structure decision by arguing that the particular
capital structure that maximizes the value of the firm is also the one that provides the most
benefit to the stockholders.
2. In a world of no taxes, the famous Proposition I of Modigliani and Miller proves that the
value of the firm is unaffected by the debt-to-equity ratio. In other words, a firm’s capital
structure is a matter of indifference in that world. The authors obtain their results by showing
that either a high or a low corporate ratio of debt to equity can be offset by homemade
leverage. The result hinges on the assumption that individuals can borrow at the same rate as
corporations, an assumption we believe to be quite plausible.
3. MM’s Proposition II in a world without taxes states
This implies that the expected rate of return on equity (also called the cost of equity or the
required return on equity) is positively related to the firm’s leverage. This makes intuitive
sense, because the risk of equity rises with leverage, a point illustrated by the different
sloped lines of Figure 15.2.
4. While the above work of MM is quite elegant, it does not explain the empirical findings on
capital structure very well. MM imply that the capital-structure decision is a matter of
indifference, while the decision appears to be a weighty one in the real world. To achieve
real-world applicability, we next considered corporate taxes.
5. In a world with corporate taxes but no bankruptcy costs, firm value is an increasing function
of leverage. The formula for the value of the firm is
VL  VU  TCB
rS  r0  B
S r0  rB
416
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
SUMMARY OF MODIGLIANI-MILLER
PROPOSITIONS WITH CORPORATE TAXES
Assumptions:
• Corporations are taxed at the rate TC, on earnings after interest.
• No transaction costs.
• Individuals and corporations borrow at same rate.
Results:
Proposition I: VL  VU  TCB
(for a firm with perpetual debt)
Proposition II:
Intuition:
Proposition I:
Since corporations can deduct interest payments but not dividend
payments, corporate leverage lowers tax payments.
Proposition II:
The cost of equity rises with leverage, because the risk to equity rises
with leverage.
rS  r0  B
S 1  TC r0  rB

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
423
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Expected return on levered equity can be expressed as
Here, value is positively related to leverage. This result implies that firms should have a
capital structure almost entirely composed of debt. Because real-world firms select more
moderate levels of debt, the next chapter considers modifications to the results of this chapter.
KEY TERMS
MM Proposition I
396
MM Proposition II (corporate taxes)
412
MM Proposition II
399
Pie model
390
MM Proposition I (corporate taxes)
410
SUGGESTED READINGS
The classic papers by Modigliani and Miller are
Modigliani, F., and M. H. Miller. “The Cost of Capital, Corporation Finance, and the Theory of
Investment.” American Economic Review (June 1958).
Modigliani, F., and M. H. Miller. “Corporate Income Taxes and the Cost of Capital: A
Correction.” American Economic Review (June 1963).
A more recent perspective on the above papers is provided by
Miller, M. “The Modigliani-Miller Propositions after 30 Years” in D. Chew, ed., The New
Corporate Finance: Where Theory Meets Practice (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1993).
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Capital Structure without Taxes
15.1 Nadus Corporation and Logis Corporation are identical in every way except their capital
structures. Nadus Corporation, an all-equity firm, has 5,000 shares of stock outstanding;
each share sells for $20. Logis Corporation uses leverage in its capital structure. The market
value of Logis Corporation’s debt is $25,000. Logis’s cost of debt is 12 percent. Each firm
is expected to have earnings before interest of $350,000. Neither firm pays taxes.
Suppose you want to purchase the same portion of the equity of each firm. Assume
you can borrow money at 12 percent.
a. What is the value of Nadus’s stock?
b. What is the value of Logis’s stock?
c. What will your costs and returns be if you buy 20 percent of each firm’s equity?
d. Which investment is riskier? Why?
e. Construct an investment strategy for Nadus stock that replicates the investment returns
of Logis stock.
f. What is the value of Logis Corporation?
g. If the value of Logis’s assets is $135,000 and you can invest in up to 20 percent of the
Logis stock, what should you do?
15.2 Acetate, Inc., has common stock with a market value of $20 million and debt with a market
value of $10 million. The cost of the debt is 14 percent. The current Treasury-bill rate is 8
percent, and the expected market premium is 10 percent. The beta on Acetate’s equity is 0.9.
a. What is Acetate’s debt-equity ratio?
b. What is the firm’s overall required return?
rS  r0  1  TC  r0  rB  B
S
Chapter 15
Capital Structure: Basic Concepts
417

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
424
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
15.3 You invest $100,000 in the stock of the Liana Rope Company. To make the investment,
you borrowed $75,000 from a friend at a cost of 10 percent. You expect your equity
investment to return 20 percent. There are no taxes. What would your return be if you did
not use leverage?
15.4 Levered, Inc., and Unlevered, Inc., are identical companies with identical business risk.
Their earnings are perfectly correlated. Each company is expected to earn $96 million per
year in perpetuity, and each company distributes all its earnings. Levered’s debt has a
market value of $275 million and provides a return of 8 percent. Levered’s stock sells for
$100 per share, and there are 4.5 million outstanding shares. Unlevered has only 10
million outstanding shares worth $80 each. Unlevered has no debt. There are no taxes.
Which stock is a better investment?
15.5 The Veblen Company and the Knight Company are identical in every respect except that
Veblen Company is not levered. The market value of Knight Company’s 6-percent bonds is
$1 million. The financial statistics for the two firms appear below. Neither firm pays taxes.
Veblen
Knight
Net operating income
$ 300,000
$ 300,000
Interest on debt
0
60,000
_________
_________
Earnings available to common stock
$ 300,000
$ 240,000
Required return on equity
0.125
0.140
Market value of stock
$2,400,000
$1,714,000
Market value of debt
0
$1,000,000
_________
_________
Market value of the firm
$2,400,000
$2,714,000
Overall required return
0.125
0.110
Debt-equity ratio
0
0.584
a. An investor who is also able to borrow at 6 percent owns $10,000 worth of Knight
stock. Can he increase his net return by borrowing money to buy Veblen stock? If so,
show the strategy.
b. According to Modigliani and Miller, what kind of investors will attempt this strategy?
When will the process cease?
15.6 No Lights At Wrigley, Inc. (NLAW), is a Hong Kong–based corporation that sells
sunglasses. The firm pays no corporate taxes, and its shareholders pay no personal income
taxes. NLAW currently has 100,000 shares outstanding worth $50 each; the firm has no debt.
Consider three stockholders of NLAW, Ms. A, Ms. B, and Ms. C. All three women
have good access to capital markets, so they can lend and borrow at 20 percent, the same
rate at which the firm lends and borrows. The value of their holdings and their overall
borrowing and lending positions are listed below.
Value of
Total
Total
NLAW Shares
Borrowing
Lending
Ms. A
$10,000
$ 2,000
$ 
0
Ms. B
50,000
0
6,000
Ms. C
20,000
0
0
NLAW desires a ratio of debt to total capital of 0.20. To meet that desire, suppose the firm
issues $1 million in risk-free debt and uses the funds to repurchase 20,000 shares.
The three stockholders wish to keep the risk of their portfolios unchanged. Show the
value of their holdings and their borrowing and lending positions after they have adjusted
their portfolios.
418
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
425
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
15.7 Rayburn Manufacturing is currently an all-equity firm. The firm’s equity is worth $2
million. The cost of that equity is 18 percent. Rayburn pays no taxes.
Rayburn plans to issue $400,000 in debt and to use the proceeds to repurchase stock.
The cost of debt is 10 percent.
a. After Rayburn repurchases the stock, what will the firm’s overall cost of capital be?
b. After the repurchase, what will the cost of equity be?
c. Explain your result in (b).
15.8 Strom, Inc., has 250,000 outstanding shares of stock that sell for $20 per share. Strom,
Inc., currently has no debt. The appropriate discount rate for the firm is 15 percent.
Strom’s earnings last year were $750,000. The management expects that if no changes
affect the assets of the firm, the earnings will remain $750,000 in perpetuity. Strom pays
no taxes.
Strom plans to buy out a competitor’s business at a cost of $300,000. Once added to
Strom’s current business, the competitor’s facilities will generate earnings of $120,000 in
perpetuity. The competitor has the same risk as Strom, Inc.
a. Construct the market-value balance sheet for Strom before the announcement of the
buyout is made.
b. Suppose Strom uses equity to fund the buyout.
i. According to the efficient-market hypothesis, what will happen to Strom’s price?
ii. Construct the market-value balance sheet as it will look after the announcement.
iii. How many shares did Strom sell?
iv. Once Strom sells the new shares of stock, how will its accounts look?
v. After the purchase is finalized, how will the market-value balance sheet look?
vi. What is the return to Strom’s equityholders?
c. Suppose Strom uses 10-percent debt to fund the buyout.
i. Construct the market-value balance sheet as it will look after the announcement.
ii. Once Strom sells the bonds, how will its accounts look?
iii. What is the cost of equity?
iv. Explain any difference in the cost of equity between the two plans.
v. Use MM Proposition II to verify the answer in (iii).
15.9 The Gulf Power Company is an electric utility that is planning to build a new conventional
power plant. The company has traditionally paid out all earnings to the stockholders as
dividends, and has financed capital expenditures with new issues of common stock. There
is no debt or preferred stock presently outstanding. Data on the company and the new
power plant follow. Assume all earnings streams are perpetuities.
Company Data
Current annual earnings: $27 million
Number of outstanding shares: 10 million
New Power Plant
Initial outlay: $20 million
Added annual earnings: $3 million
Management considers the power plant to have the same risk as existing assets. The
current required rate of return on equity is 10 percent. Assume there are no taxes and no
costs of bankruptcy.
a. What will the total market value of Gulf Power be if common stock is issued to finance
the plant?
b. What will the total market value of the firm be if $20 million in bonds with an
interest rate of 8 percent are issued to finance the plant? Assume the bonds are
perpetuities.
c. Suppose Gulf Power issues the bonds. Calculate the rate of return required by
stockholders after the financing has occurred and the plant has been built.
Chapter 15
Capital Structure: Basic Concepts
419

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
426
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
15.10 Suppose there are no taxes, no transaction costs, and no costs of financial distress. In such
a world, are the following statements true, false, or uncertain? Explain your answers.
a. If a firm issues equity to repurchase some of its debt, the price of the remaining
shares will rise because those shares are less risky.
b. Moderate borrowing does not significantly affect the probability of financial distress or
bankruptcy. Hence, moderate borrowing will not increase the required return on equity.
15.11 a. List the three assumptions that lie behind the Modigliani-Miller theory.
b. Briefly explain the effect of each upon the conclusions of the theory for the real world.
15.12 The Digital Sound Corporation has 1 million shares of common stock outstanding at $10
per share. It is an all-equity firm. Susan Wang is CEO at Wang Finance Ltd. She wants to
acquire a stake of 1 percent of the firm but has not decided among the three possible
financing choices. She can borrow 20 percent, 40 percent, or 60 percent of the money she
needs at a constant interest rate of 10 percent a year. The return on equity of the Digital
Sound Corporation is 15 percent. Assume that she is in an MM no-tax world.
a. How much dollar return can Susan expect to earn from her investment each year
under each of the three financing alternatives, respectively?
b. What are Susan’s returns on equity on each financing choice, respectively?
c. From parts (a) and (b), what inference can she draw about the return on equity of a
leveraged firm?
15.13 Old Fashion Corp. is an all-equity firm famous for its antique furniture business. If the firm
uses 36-percent leverage through issuance of long-term debt, the CFO predicts that there is a
20-percent chance that the ROE will be 10 percent, a 40-percent chance that the ROE will be
15 percent, and a 40-percent chance that the ROE will be 20 percent. The firm is tax exempt.
Explain whether the firm should change its capital structure if the forecast of the CFO changes
to 30-percent, 50-percent, and 20-percent chances, respectively, for the three ROE possibilities.
15.14 Sunrise Industries Corp. is planning to repurchase part of its common stock in the open
market by issuing corporate debt. As a result, the debt-to-equity ratio is expected to rise
from 40 percent to 50 percent. The annual interest payment on its outstanding debt
amounts to $0.75 million with an interest rate at 10 percent. The expected earnings before
interest are $3.75 million. There are no taxes in the country where Sunrise operates.
(Treat the debt and earnings as perpetuities to simplify calculation.)
a. What is the total value of Sunrise Industries Corp.?
b. What is the expected return on equity before and after the announcement of the stock
repurchase plan?
c. How would the stock price change at the announcement of the repurchase?
Capital Structure with Corporate Taxes
15.15 The market value of a firm with $500,000 of debt is $1,700,000. EBIT is expected to be a
perpetuity. The pretax interest rate on debt is 10 percent. The company is in the 34-
percent tax bracket. If the company was 100-percent equity financed, the equityholders
would require a 20-percent return.
a. What would the value of the firm be if it was financed entirely with equity?
b. What is the net income to the stockholders of this levered firm?
15.16 An all-equity firm is subject to a 30-percent corporate tax rate. Its equityholders require a
20-percent return. The firm’s initial market value is $3,500,000, and there are 175,000
shares outstanding. The firm issues $1 million of bonds at 10 percent and uses the proceeds
to repurchase common stock. Assume there is no change in the cost of financial distress for
the firm. According to MM, what is the new market value of the equity of the firm?
15.17 Streiber Publishing Company, an all-equity firm, generates perpetual earnings before
interest and taxes (EBIT) of $2.5 million per year. Streiber’s after-tax, all-equity discount
rate is 20 percent. The company’s tax rate is 34 percent.
a. What is the value of Streiber Publishing?
b. If Streiber adjusts its capital structure to include $600,000 of debt, what is the value
of the firm?
420
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
15. Capital Structure: Basic 
Concepts
427
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
c. Explain any difference in your answers.
d. What assumptions are you making when you are valuing Streiber?
15.18 Olbet, Inc., is a nongrowth company in the 35-percent tax bracket. Olbet’s perpetual
EBIT is $1.2 million per annum. The firm’s pretax cost of debt is 8 percent and its
interest expense per year is $200,000. Company analysts estimate that the unlevered cost
of Olbet’s equity is 12 percent.
a. What is the value of this firm?
b. What does the calculation in (a) imply about the correct level of debt?
c. Is the conclusion correct? Why or why not?
15.19 Green Manufacturing, Inc., plans to announce that it will issue $2,000,000 of perpetual bonds.
The bonds will have a 6-percent coupon rate. Green Manufacturing currently is an all-equity
firm. The value of Green’s equity is $10,000,000 and there are 500,000 shares outstanding.
After the sale of the bonds, Green will maintain the new capital structure indefinitely. The
expected annual pretax earnings of Green are $1,500,000. Those earnings are also expected to
remain constant into the foreseeable future. Green is in the 40-percent tax bracket.
a. What is Green’s current overall required return?
b. Construct Green Manufacturing’s market-value balance sheet as it looks before the
announcement of the debt issue.
c. What is the market-value balance sheet after the announcement?
d. How many shares of stock will Green retire?
e. What will the accounts show after the restructuring has taken place?
f. What is Green’s cost of equity after the capital restructuring?
15.20 The Nikko Company has perpetual EBIT of $4 million per year. The after-tax, all-equity
discount rate r0 is 15 percent. The company’s tax rate is 35 percent. The cost of debt
capital is 10 percent, and Nikko has $10 million of debt in its capital structure.
a. What is Nikko’s value?
b. What is Nikko’s rWACC?
c. What is Nikko’s cost of equity?
15.21 AT&B has a debt-equity ratio of 2.5. Its rWACC is 15 percent and its cost of debt is 11
percent. The corporate tax rate is 35 percent.
a. What is AT&B’s cost of equity capital?
b. What is AT&B’s unlevered cost of equity capital?
c. What would the weighted average cost of capital be if the debt-to-equity ratio was .75?
What if it were 1.5?
15.22 General Tools (GT) expects EBIT to be $100,000 every year, in perpetuity. The firm can
borrow at 10 percent. GT currently has no debt. Its cost of equity is 25 percent. If the
corporate tax rate is 40 percent, what is the value of the firm? What will the value be if
GT borrows $500,000 and uses the proceeds to repurchase shares?
15.23 Eureka Space Technology Group (an all-equity firm) is announcing a $100 million R&D
project, which is expected to drastically improve its satellite launching technology by
reducing its annual launching costs from $500 million to $475 million. The firm can
finance the project through either retained earnings or a new bond issue. The firm’s cost of
equity capital is 12.5 percent. The prevailing market rate of interest for comparable
corporate bonds is 8 percent. Currently, the firm has 15 million shares of stock outstanding
at $32.5 a share. The firm has sufficient earnings to fully utilize the corporate tax shield if
the project is debt financed. Assume the relevant marginal corporate tax rate is 35 percent.
a. Which financing method, retained earnings or external debt financing, would you
recommend to the management and why?
b. What is the resulting PV of the firm from each of these two financing methods?
c. What do you expect will be the stock market stock price response to the two different
methods?
d. Explain the intuition behind the results in part (c).
Chapter 15
Capital Structure: Basic Concepts
421

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
428
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Capital Structure: 
Limits to the Use of Debt
CHAPTER 16
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
O
ne question a student might ask is, “Does the MM theory with taxes predict the cap-
ital structure of typical firms?” The answer is, unfortunately, “no.” The theory states
that VL  VU  TCB. According to this equation, one can always increase firm value
by increasing leverage, implying that firms should issue maximum debt. This is inconsistent
with the real world, where firms generally employ only moderate amounts of debt.
However, the MM theory tells us where to look when searching for the determinants of
capital structure. For example, the theory ignores bankruptcy and its attendant costs.
Because these costs are likely to get out of hand for a highly levered firm, the moderate
leverage of most firms can now easily be explained. Our discussion leads quite naturally to
the idea that a firm’s capital structure can be thought of as a trade-off between the tax ben-
efits of debt and the costs of financial distress and bankruptcy. This trade-off of benefits and
costs leads to an optimum amount of debt.
In addition, the MM theory ignores personal taxes. In the real world, the personal tax
rate on interest is higher than the effective personal tax rate on equity distributions. Thus,
the personal tax penalties to bondholders tend to offset the tax benefits to debt at the cor-
porate level. Even when bankruptcy costs are ignored, this idea can be shown to imply that
there is an optimal amount of debt for the economy as a whole. The implications of bank-
ruptcy costs and personal taxes are examined in this chapter.
16.1 COSTS OF FINANCIAL DISTRESS
Bankruptcy Risk or Bankruptcy Cost?
As mentioned throughout the previous chapter, debt provides tax benefits to the firm. How-
ever, debt puts pressure on the firm, because interest and principal payments are obligations.
If these obligations are not met, the firm may risk some sort of financial distress. The ulti-
mate distress is bankruptcy, where ownership of the firm’s assets is legally transferred from
the stockholders to the bondholders. These debt obligations are fundamentally different from
stock obligations. While stockholders like and expect dividends, they are not legally entitled
to dividends in the way bondholders are legally entitled to interest and principal payments.
We show below that bankruptcy costs, or more generally financial distress costs, tend
to offset the advantages to debt. We begin by positing a simple example of bankruptcy. All
taxes are ignored to focus only on the costs of debt.
EXAMPLE
The Knight Corporation plans to be in business for one more year. It forecasts a
cash flow of either $100 or $50 in the coming year, each occurring with 50-percent
probability. The firm has no other assets. Previously issued debt requires payments

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
429
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
of $49 of interest and principal. The Day Corporation has identical cash flow
prospects but has $60 of interest and principal obligations. The cash flows of these
two firms can be represented as
Knight Corporation
Day Corporation
Boom Times
Recession
Boom Times
Recession
(prob. 50%)
(prob. 50%)
(prob. 50%)
(prob. 50%)
Cash flow
$100
$50
$100
$50
Payment of interest and 
principal on debt
49
49
60
50
____
___
____
___
Distribution to stockholders
$ 51
$ 1
$ 40
$ 0
For Knight Corporation in both boom times and recession and for Day Cor-
poration in boom times, cash flow exceeds interest and principal payments. In
these situations, the bondholders are paid in full and the stockholders receive any
residual. However, the most interesting of the four columns involves Day Corpo-
ration in a recession. Here, the bondholders are owed $60, but the firm has only
$50 in cash. Since we assumed that the firm has no other assets, the bondholders
cannot be satisfied in full. If bankruptcy occurs, the bondholders will receive all
of the firm’s cash, and the stockholders will receive nothing. Importantly, the
stockholders do not have to come up with the additional $10 ( $60  $50). Cor-
porations have limited liability in America and most other countries, implying that
bondholders cannot sue the stockholders for the extra $10.1
We assume that (1) both bondholders and stockholders are risk-neutral and
(2) the interest rate is 10 percent. Due to this risk neutrality, cash flows to both
stockholders and bondholders are to be discounted at the 10-percent rate.2 We can
evaluate the debt, the equity, and the entire firm for both Knight and Day as follows:
SKNIGHT  $23.64 
SDAY  $18.18 
BKNIGHT  $44.54 
BDAY  $50

______
______
VKNIGHT  $68.18
VDAY  $68.18
Note that the two firms have the same value, even though Day runs the risk of
bankruptcy. Furthermore, notice that Day’s bondholders are valuing the bonds
with their eyes open. Though the promised payment of principal and interest is
$60 
1
2  $50 
1
2
1.10
$49 
1
2  $49 
1
2
1.10
$40 
1
2  0 
1
2
1.10
$51 
1
2  $1 
1
2
1.10
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
423
1There are situations where the limited liability of corporation can be “pierced.” Typically, fraud or
misrepresentation must be present.
2Normally, one assumes that investors are averse to risk. In that case, the cost of debt capital, rB, is less than the
cost of equity capital, rS, which rises with leverage as shown in the previous chapter. In addition, rB may rise
when the increase in leverage allows the possibility of default.
For simplicity, we assume risk neutrality in this example. This means that investors are indifferent to
whether risk is high, low, or even absent. Here, rS  rB, because risk-neutral investors do not demand
compensation for bearing risk. In addition, neither rS nor rB rises with leverage. Because the interest rate is 10
percent, our assumption of risk neutrality implies that rS  10% as well.
Though financial economists believe that investors are risk-averse, they frequently develop examples
based on risk-neutrality to isolate a point unrelated to risk. This is our approach, because we want to focus on
bankruptcy costs—not bankruptcy risk. The same qualitative conclusions from this example can be drawn in a
world of risk aversion, albeit with much more difficulty for the reader.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
430
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
$60, the bondholders are willing to pay only $50. Hence, their promised return or
yield is
Day’s debt can be viewed as a junk bond, because the probability of default is so
high. As with all junk bonds, bondholders demand a high promised yield.
Day’s example is not realistic because it ignores an important cash flow to be
discussed below. A more realistic set of numbers might be
DAY CORPORATION
Boom times
Recession
(prob. 50%)
(prob. 50%)
Earnings
$100
$50
SDAY  $18.18 
Debt repayment
60
35
BDAY  $43.18 
Distribution to 
____
___
______
stockholders
$ 40
$ 0
VDAY  $61.36
Why do the bondholders receive only $35 in a recession? If cash flow is only $50,
bondholders will be informed that they will not be paid in full. These bondholders
are likely to hire lawyers to negotiate or even to sue the company. Similarly, the firm
is likely to hire lawyers to defend itself. Further costs will be incurred if the case gets
to a bankruptcy court. These fees are always paid before the bondholders get paid.
In this example, we are assuming that bankruptcy costs total $15 ($50  35).
The value of the firm is now $61.36, an amount below the $68.18 figure cal-
culated earlier. By comparing Day’s value in a world with no bankruptcy costs to
Day’s value in a world with these costs, we conclude
The possibility of bankruptcy has a negative effect on the value of the firm. However, it
is not the risk of bankruptcy itself that lowers value. Rather it is the costs associated
with bankruptcy that lower value.
The explanation follows from our pie example. In a world without bankruptcy
costs, the bondholders and the stockholders share the entire pie. However, bank-
ruptcy costs eat up some of the pie in the real world, leaving less for the stock-
holders and bondholders.
Because the bondholders are aware that they would receive little in a reces-
sion, they pay a low price. In this case, their promised return is
The bondholders are paying a fair price if they are realistic about both the prob-
ability and the cost of bankruptcy. It is the stockholders who bear these future
bankruptcy costs. To see this, imagine that Day Corporation was originally all
equity. The stockholders want the firm to issue debt with a promised payment of
$60 and use the proceeds to pay a dividend. If there had been no bankruptcy costs,
our results show that bondholders would pay $50 to purchase debt with a prom-
ised payment of $60. Hence, a dividend of $50 could be paid to the stockholders.
However, if bankruptcy costs exist, bondholders would only pay $43.18 for the
$60
$43.18  1  39.0%
$60 
1
2  $35 
1
2
1.10
$40 
1
2  0 
1
2
1.10
$60
$50  1  20%
424
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
431
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
debt. In that case, only a dividend of $43.18 could be paid to the stockholders.
Because the dividend is smaller when bankruptcy costs exist, the stockholders are
hurt by bankruptcy costs.
• What does risk neutrality mean?
• Can one have bankruptcy risk without bankruptcy costs?
• Why do we say that stockholders bear bankruptcy costs?
16.2 DESCRIPTION OF COSTS
The preceding example showed that bankruptcy costs can lower the value of the firm. In
fact, the same general result holds even if a legal bankruptcy is prevented. Thus, financial
distress costs may be a better phrase than bankruptcy costs. It is worthwhile to describe
these costs in more detail.
Direct Costs of Financial Distress: Legal and Administrative
Costs of Liquidation or Reorganization
As mentioned earlier, lawyers are involved throughout all the stages before and during
bankruptcy. With fees often in the hundreds of dollars an hour, these costs can add up
quickly. A wag once remarked that bankruptcies are to lawyers what blood is to sharks. In
addition, administrative and accounting fees can substantially add to the total bill. And if a
trial takes place, we must not forget expert witnesses. Each side may hire a number of these
witnesses to testify about the fairness of a proposed settlement. Their fees can easily rival
those of lawyers or accountants. (However, we personally look upon these witnesses more
kindly, because they are frequently drawn from the ranks of finance professors.)
Perhaps one of the most well-publicized bankruptcies in recent years concerned a mu-
nicipality, Orange County, California, not a corporation. This bankruptcy followed large
bond-trading losses in the county’s financial portfolio. The Los Angeles Times stated:
Orange County taxpayers lost $1.69 billion, and their government, one year ago today, sank
into bankruptcy. Now they are spending millions more to get out of it.
Accountants pore over fiscal ledgers at $325 an hour. Lawyers toil into the night—at
$385 an hour. Financial advisors from one of the nation’s most prominent investment houses
labor for the taxpayers at $150,000 a month. Clerks stand by the photocopy machines, running
up bills that sometimes exceed $3,000.
Total so far: $29 million. And it’s nowhere near over.
The multi-pronged effort to lift Orange County out of the nation’s worst municipal bank-
ruptcy has become a money-eating machine, gobbling up taxpayer funds at a rate of $2.4 mil-
lion a month. That’s $115,000 a day.
County administrators are not alarmed.
They say Orange County’s bankruptcy was an epic disaster that will require equally dra-
matic expenditures of taxpayer cash to help it survive. While they have refused to pay several
thousand dollars worth of claimed expenses—lavish dinners, big hotel bills—they have rarely
questioned the sky-high hourly fees. They predict the costs could climb much higher.
Indeed, participants in the county’s investment pool have agreed to create a separate $50
million fund to pay the costs of doing legal battle with Wall Street.3
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
425
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?
3“The High Cost of Going Bankrupt,” Los Angeles Times Orange County Edition, December 6, 1995. Taken
from Lexis/Nexis.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
432
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
A number of academic studies have measured the direct costs of financial distress.
While large in absolute amount, these costs are actually small as a percentage of firm
value. White, Altman, and Weiss estimate the direct costs of financial distress to be about
3 percent of the market value of the firm.4 In a study of direct financial distress costs of 20
railroad bankruptcies, Warner finds that net financial distress costs were, on average, 1 per-
cent of the market value of the firm seven years before bankruptcy and were somewhat
larger percentages as bankruptcy approached (for example, 2.5 percent of the market value
of the firm three years before bankruptcy).5 Of course, few firms end up in bankruptcy.
Thus, the preceding cost estimates must be multiplied by the probability of bankruptcy to
yield the expected cost of bankruptcy. Warner states:
Suppose, for example, that a given railroad picks a level of debt such that bankruptcy would
occur on average once every 20 years (i.e., the probability of going bankrupt is 5 percent in
any given year). Assume that when bankruptcy occurs, the firm would pay a lump sum penalty
equal to 3 percent of its now current market value. . . . 
[Then], the firm’s expected cost of bankruptcy is equal to fifteen one-hundredths of one
percent of its now current market value.
Indirect Costs of Financial Distress
Impaired Ability to Conduct Business
Bankruptcy hampers conduct with customers
and suppliers. Sales are frequently lost because of both fear of impaired service and loss
of trust. For example, many loyal Chrysler customers switched to other manufacturers
when Chrysler skirted insolvency in the 1970s. These buyers questioned whether parts
and servicing would be available were Chrysler to fail. Sometimes the taint of impend-
ing bankruptcy is enough to drive customers away. For example, gamblers avoided At-
lantis casino in Atlantic City after it became technically insolvent. Gamblers are a su-
perstitious bunch. Many reasoned, “If the casino itself cannot make money, how can I
expect to make money there?” A particularly outrageous story concerned two unrelated
stores both named Mitchells in New York City. When one Mitchells declared bankruptcy,
customers stayed away from both stores. In time, the second store was forced to declare
bankruptcy as well.
Though these costs clearly exist, it is quite difficult to measure them. Altman estimates
that both direct and indirect costs of financial distress are frequently greater than 20 percent
of firm value.6 Andrade and Kaplan7 estimate total distress costs to be between 10 percent and
426
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
4M. J. White, “Bankruptcy Costs and the New Bankruptcy Code,” Journal of Finance (May 1983); and E. I.
Altman, “ A Further Empirical Investigation of the Bankruptcy Cost Question,” Journal of Finance (September
1984). More recently, Lawrence A. Weiss, “Bankruptcy Resolution: Direct Costs and Violation of Priority of
Claims,” Journal of Financial Economics 27 (1990), estimates that direct costs of bankruptcy are 3.1 percent of
the value of the firm.
5J. B. Warner, “Bankruptcy Costs: Some Evidence,” Journal of Finance (May 1977).
6Altman, op. cit. “A Further Empirical Investigation.”
A fascinating and provacative set of articles by Robert Haugen and Lemma Senbet (“The Insignificance of
Bankruptcy Costs to the Theory of Optimal Capital Structure.” Journal of Finance (May 1978); “New
Perspectives on Information Asymmetry and Agency Relationships.” Journal of Financial and Quantitative
Analysis (November 1979); “Bankruptcy and Agency Costs: Their Significance to the Theory of Optimal
Capital Structure,” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (March 1988)) argue that financial distress
should, at most, only slightly impair the firm’s ability to conduct business. They say that customers, employees,
and so on, are concerned with the tenure of the firm, which is fundamentally a function of its asset
characteristics. This tenure should not be dependent on the way the assets are financed.
7Gregor Andrade and Steven N. Kaplan, “How Costly is Financial (Not Economic) Distress? Evidence from
Highly Leveraged Transactions that Became Distressed,” Journal of Finance (October 1998).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
433
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
20 percent of firm value. Bar-Or8 estimates expected future distress costs for firms that are
currently healthy to be 8 to 10 percent of operating value, a number below the estimates of ei-
ther Altman or Andrade and Kaplan. However, unlike Bar-Or, these authors consider distress
costs for firms already in distress, not expected distress costs for currently healthy firms.
Cutler and Summers9 examine the costs of the well-publicized Texaco bankruptcy. In
January of 1984, Pennzoil reached what it believed to be a binding agreement to acquire
three-sevenths of Getty Oil. However, less than a week later, Texaco acquired all of Getty
at a higher per-share price. Pennzoil then sued Getty for breach of contract. Because Texaco
had previously indemnified Getty against litigation, Texaco became liable for damages.
In November 1985, the Texas State Court awarded damages of $12 billion to Pennzoil, al-
though this amount was later reduced. As a result, Texaco filed for bankruptcy. Cutler and
Summers identify nine important events over the course of the litigation. They find that Texaco’s
market value (stock price times number of shares outstanding) fell a cumulative $4.1 billion
over these events, whereas Pennzoil rose only $682 million. Thus, Pennzoil gained about one-
sixth of what Texaco lost, resulting in a net loss to the two firms of almost $31⁄2 billion.
What could explain this net loss? Cutler and Summers suggest that it is likely due to
costs that Texaco and Pennzoil incurred from the litigation and subsequent bankruptcy. The
authors argue that direct bankruptcy fees represent only a small part of these costs, esti-
mating Texaco’s after-tax legal expenses to be about $165 million. Legal costs to Pennzoil
were more difficult to assess, because Pennzoil’s lead lawyer, Joe Jamail, stated publicly
that he had no set fee. However, using a clever statistical analysis, the authors estimate his
fee to be about $200 million. Thus, one must search elsewhere for the bulk of the costs.
Indirect costs of financial distress may be the culprit here. An affidavit by Texaco stated
that, following the lawsuit, some of its suppliers were demanding cash payment. Other sup-
pliers halted or canceled shipments of crude oil. Certain banks restricted Texaco’s use of fu-
tures contracts on foreign exchange. The affidavit stressed that these constraints were reduc-
ing Texaco’s ability to run its business, leading to deterioration of its financial condition.
Could these sorts of indirect costs explain the $31⁄2 billion disparity between Texaco’s drop and
Pennzoil’s rise in market value? Unfortunately, although it is quite likely that indirect costs
play a role here, there is simply no way to obtain a decent, quantitative estimate for them.
Agency Costs
When a firm has debt, conflicts of interest arise between stockholders and bondholders. Because
of this, stockholders are tempted to pursue selfish strategies. These conflicts of interest, which
are magnified when financial distress is incurred, impose agency costs on the firm. We describe
three kinds of selfish strategies that stockholders use to hurt the bondholders and help them-
selves. These strategies are costly because they will lower the market value of the whole firm.
Selfish Investment Strategy 1: Incentive to Take Large Risks
Firms near bankruptcy of-
tentimes takes great chances, because they believe that they are playing with someone else’s
money. To see this, imagine a levered firm considering two mutually exclusive projects, a
low-risk one and a high-risk one. There are two equally likely outcomes, recession and
boom. The firm is in such dire straits that should a recession hit, it will come near to bank-
ruptcy with one project and actually fall into bankruptcy with the other. The cash flows for
the entire firm if the low-risk project is taken can be described as
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
427
8Yuval Bar-Or, “An Investigation of Expected Financial Distress Costs,” unpublished paper, Wharton School,
University of Pennsylvania (March 2000).
9David M. Cutler and Lawrence H. Summers, “The Costs of Conflict Resolution and Financial Distress:
Evidence from the Texaco-Pennzoil Litigation,” Rand Journal of Economics (Summer 1988).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
434
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Value of Entire Firm if Low-Risk Project Is Chosen
Value
Probability
of Firm

Stock

Bonds
Recession
0.5
$100

$
0

$100
Boom
0.5
200

100

100
If recession occurs, the value of the firm will be $100, and if boom obtains, the value of the
firm will be $200. The expected value of the firm is $150 (0.5  $100  0.5  $200).
The firm has promised to pay bondholders $100. Shareholders will obtain the difference
between the total payoff and the amount paid to the bondholders. In other words, the bond-
holders have the prior claim on the payoffs, and the shareholders have the residual claim.
Now suppose that another, riskier project can be substituted for the low-risk project.
The payoffs and probabilities are as follows:
Value of Entire Firm if High-Risk Project Is Chosen
Value
Probability
of Firm

Stock

Bonds
Recession
0.5
$ 50

$
0

$ 50
Boom
0.5
240

140

100
The expected value of the firm is $145 (0.5  $50  0.5  $240), which is lower than the ex-
pected value of the firm with the low-risk project. Thus, the low-risk project would be accepted
if the firm were all equity. However, note that the expected value of the stock is $70 (0.5  0 
0.5  $140) with the high-risk project, but only $50 (0.5  0  0.5  $100) with the low-risk
project. Given the firm’s present levered state, stockholders will select the high-risk project.
The key is that, relative to the low-risk project, the high-risk project increases firm
value in a boom and decreases firm value in a recession. The increase in value in a boom is
captured by the stockholders, because the bondholders are paid in full (they receive $100)
regardless of which project is accepted. Conversely, the drop in value in a recession is lost
by the bondholders, because they are paid in full with the low-risk project but receive only
$50 with the high-risk one. The stockholders will receive nothing in a recession anyway,
whether the high-risk or low-risk project is selected. Thus, financial economists argue that
stockholders expropriate value from the bondholders by selecting high-risk projects.
A story, perhaps apocryphal, illustrates this idea. It seems that Federal Express was
near financial collapse within a few years of its inception. The founder, Frederick Smith,
took $20,000 of corporate funds to Las Vegas in despair. He won at the gaming tables, pro-
viding enough capital to allow the firm to survive. Had he lost, the banks would simply have
received $20,000 less when the firm reached bankruptcy.
Selfish Investment Strategy 2: Incentive toward Underinvestment
Stockholders of a firm
with a significant probability of bankruptcy often find that new investment helps the bond-
holders at the stockholders’ expense. The simplest case might be a real estate owner facing
imminent bankruptcy. If he took $100,000 out of his own pocket to refurbish the building,
he could increase the building’s value by, say, $150,000. Though this investment has a pos-
itive net present value, he will turn it down if the increase in value cannot prevent bank-
ruptcy. “Why,” he asks, “should I use my own funds to improve the value of a building that
the bank will soon repossess?”
This idea is formalized by the following simple example. Consider a firm with $4,000
of principal and interest payments due at the end of the year. It will be pulled into bank-
ruptcy by a recession because its cash flows will be only $2,400 in that state. The firm’s
428
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
435
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
cash flows are presented in the left-hand side of Table 16.1. The firm could avoid bank-
ruptcy in a recession by raising new equity to invest in a new project. The project costs
$1,000 and brings in $1,700 in either state, implying a positive net present value. Clearly it
would be accepted in an all-equity firm.
However, the project hurts the stockholders of the levered firm. To see this, imagine the
old stockholders contribute the $1,000 themselves.10 The expected value of the stockhold-
ers’interest without the project is $500 (0.5  $1,000  0.5  0). The expected value with
the project is $1,400 (0.5  $2,700  0.5  $100). The stockholders’interest rises by only
$900 ($1,400  $500) while costing $1,000.
The key is that the stockholders contribute the full $1,000 investment, but the stock-
holders and bondholders share the benefits. The stockholders take the entire gain if boom
times occur. Conversely, the bondholders reap most of the cash flow from the project in a
recession.
The discussion of selfish strategy 1 is quite similar to the discussion of selfish strategy 2.
In both cases, an investment strategy for the levered firm is different from the one for the un-
levered firm. Thus, leverage results in distorted investment policy. Whereas the unlevered cor-
poration always chooses projects with positive net present value, the levered firm may devi-
ate from this policy.
Selfish Investment Strategy 3: Milking the Property
Another strategy is to pay out extra
dividends or other distributions in times of financial distress, leaving less in the firm for the
bondholders. This is known as milking the property, a phrase taken from real estate. Strate-
gies 2 and 3 are very similar. In strategy 2, the firm chooses not to raise new equity. Strat-
egy 3 goes one step further, because equity is actually withdrawn through the dividend.
Summary of Selfish Strategies
The above distortions occur only when there is a probabil-
ity of bankruptcy or financial distress. Thus, these distortions should not affect, say, General
Electric because bankruptcy is not a realistic possibility for a diversified blue-chip firm such
as this. In other words, General Electric’s debt will be virtually risk-free, regardless of the
projects it accepts. The same argument could be made for regulated companies that are pro-
tected by state utility commissions. However, firms such as Intel or Intuit might be very much
affected by these distortions. Both Intel and Intuit are firms with significant potential future
investment opportunities as compared to assets in place and both firms face intense competi-
tion and uncertain future revenues. Because the distortions are related to financial distress, we
have included them in our discussion of the “Indirect Costs of Financial Distress.”
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
429
I TABLE 16.1 Example Illustrating Incentive to Underinvest
Firm without Project
Firm with Project
Boom
Recession
Boom
Recession
Firm cash flows
$5,000
$2,400
$6,700
$4,100
Bondholders’ claim
4,000
2,400
4,000
4,000
______
______
______
______
Stockholders’ claim
$1,000
$
0
$2,700
$ 100
The project has positive NPV. However, much of its value is captured by bondholders. Rational managers,
acting in the stockholders’ interest, will reject the project.
10The same qualitative results will obtain if the $1,000 is raised from new stockholders. However, the arithmetic
becomes much more difficult since we must determine how many new shares are issued.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
436
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Who pays for the cost of selfish investment strategies? We argue that it is ultimately the
stockholders. Rational bondholders know that, when financial distress is imminent, they
cannot expect help from stockholders. Rather, stockholders are likely to choose investment
strategies that reduce the value of the bonds. Bondholders protect themselves accordingly
by raising the interest rate that they require on the bonds. Because the stockholders must
pay these high rates, they ultimately bear the costs of selfish strategies. The relationship be-
tween stockholders and bondholders is very similar to the relationship between Erroll Flynn
and David Niven, good friends and movie stars in the 1930s. Niven reportedly said that the
good thing about Flynn was that you knew exactly where you stood with him. When you
needed his help, you could always count on him to let you down.
For firms that face these distortions, debt will be difficult and costly to obtain. These
firms will have low leverage ratios.
• What is the main direct cost of financial distress?
• What are the indirect costs of financial distress?
• Who pays the costs of selfish strategies?
16.3 CAN COSTS OF DEBT BE REDUCED?
As U.S. senators are prone to say, “A billion here, a billion there. Pretty soon it all adds
up.”11 Each of the costs of financial distress we mentioned above is substantial in its own
right. The sum of them may well affect debt financing severely. Thus, managers have an in-
centive to reduce these costs. We now turn to some of their methods. However, it should be
mentioned at the outset that the methods below can, at most, reduce the costs of debt. They
cannot eliminate them entirely.
Protective Covenants
Because the stockholders must pay higher interest rates as insurance against their own self-
ish strategies, they frequently make agreements with bondholders in hopes of lower rates.
These agreements, called protective covenants, are incorporated as part of the loan docu-
ment (or indenture) between stockholders and bondholders. The covenants must be taken
seriously since a broken covenant can lead to default. Protective covenants can be classi-
fied into two types: negative covenants and positive covenants.
A negative covenant limits or prohibits actions that the company may take. Here are
some typical negative covenants:
1. Limitations are placed on the amount of dividends a company may pay.
2. The firm may not pledge any of its assets to other lenders.
3. The firm may not merge with another firm.
4. The firm may not sell or lease its major assets without approval by the lender.
5. The firm may not issue additional long-term debt.
430
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?
11The original quote is generally attributed to Senator Everett Dirksen. In the 1950s, he reportedly said, “A
million here, a million there. Pretty soon it all adds up.” Government spending has increased since that time.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
437
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
A positive covenant specifies an action that the company agrees to take or a condition
the company must abide by. Here are some examples:
1. The company agrees to maintain its working capital at a minimum level.
2. The company must furnish periodic financial statements to the lender.
These lists of covenants are not exhaustive. We have seen loan agreements with more than
30 covenants.
Smith and Warner examined public issues of debt and found that 91 percent of the bond
indentures included covenants that restricted the issuance of additional debt, 23 percent re-
stricted dividends, 39 percent restricted mergers, and 36 percent limited the sale of assets.12
Protective covenants should reduce the costs of bankruptcy, ultimately increasing the
value of the firm. Thus, stockholders are likely to favor all reasonable covenants. To see this,
consider three choices by stockholders to reduce bankruptcy costs.
1. Issue No Debt. Because of the tax advantages to debt, this is a very costly way of avoid-
ing conflicts.
2. Issue Debt with No Restrictive and Protective Covenants. In this case, bondholders will
demand high interest rates to compensate for the unprotected status of their debt.
3. Write Protective and Restrictive Covenants into the Loan Contracts. If the covenants are
clearly written, the creditors may receive protection without large costs being imposed
on the shareholders. They will happily accept a lower interest rate.
Thus, bond covenants, even if they reduce flexibility, can increase the value of the firm.
They can be the lowest-cost solution to the stockholder-bondholder conflict. A list of typi-
cal bond covenants and their uses appears in Table 16.2.
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
431
12C. W. Smith and J. B. Warner, “On Financial Contracting: An Analysis of Bond Covenants,” Journal of
Financial Economics 7 (1979).
I TABLE 16.2 Loan Covenants
Shareholder Action or Firm
Covenant Type
Circumstances
Reason for Covenant
Financial-statement signals
As firm approaches financial distress,
Shareholders lose value before bankruptcy; 
1. Working capital requirement
shareholders may want firm to make 
bondholders are hurt much more in 
2. Interest coverage
high-risk investments.
bankruptcy than shareholders (limited 
3. Minimum net worth
liability); bondholders are hurt by distortion 
of investment that leads to increases in risk.
Restrictions on asset disposition
Shareholders attempt to transfer 
This limits the ability of shareholders to 
1. Limit dividends
corporate assets to themselves.
transfer assets to themselves and to 
2. Limit sale of assets
underinvest.
3. Collateral and mortgages
Restrictions on switching assets
Shareholders attempt to increase
Increased firm risk helps shareholders;
risk of firm.
bondholders hurt by distortion of investment
that leads to increases in risk.
Dilution
Shareholders may attempt to issue 
This restricts dilution of the claim of 
1. Limit on leasing
new debt of equal or greater priority.
existing bondholders.
2. Limit on further borrowing

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
438
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Consolidation of Debt
One reason bankruptcy costs are so high is that different creditors (and their lawyers) con-
tend with each other. This problem can be alleviated by proper arrangement of bondhold-
ers and stockholders. For example, perhaps one, or at most a few, lenders can shoulder the
entire debt. Should financial distress occur, negotiating costs are minimized under this
arrangement. In addition, bondholders can purchase stock as well. In this way, stockhold-
ers and debtholders are not pitted against each other, because they are not separate entities.
This appears to be the approach in Japan where large banks generally take significant stock
positions in the firms to which they lend money.13 Debt-equity ratios in Japan are far higher
than those in the United States.
16.4 INTEGRATION OF TAX EFFECTS AND FINANCIAL
DISTRESS COSTS
Modigliani and Miller argue that the firm’s value rises with leverage in the presence of cor-
porate taxes. Because this implies that all firms should choose maximum debt, the theory
does not predict the behavior of firms in the real world. Other authors have suggested that
bankruptcy and related costs reduce the value of the levered firm.
The integration of tax effects and distress costs appears in Figure 16.1. The diagonal
straight line in the figure represents the value of the firm in a world without bankruptcy
costs. The -shaped curve represents the value of the firm with these costs. The -shaped
curve rises as the firm moves from all-equity to a small amount of debt. Here, the present
value of the distress costs is minimal because the probability of distress is so small.
However, as more and more debt is added, the present value of these costs rises at an in-
creasing rate. At some point, the increase in the present value of these costs from an addi-
tional dollar of debt equals the increase in the present value of the tax shield. This is the
432
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
13Legal limitations may prevent this practice in the United States.
Debt (B)
Value of firm (V)
VL = VU + TCB =
Maximum
firm value
Present value of tax
shield on debt
B*
Present value of
financial distress costs
Value of firm under
MM with corporate
taxes and debt
V = Actual value of firm
VU = Value of firm with no debt
Optimal amount of debt
I FIGURE 16.1 The Optimal Amount of Debt and the Value of the Firm
The tax shield increases the value of the levered firm. Financial distress costs lower the value
of the levered firm. The two offsetting factors produce an optimal amount of debt at B*.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
439
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
debt level maximizing the value of the firm and is represented by B* in Figure 16.1. In other
words, B* is the optimal amount of debt. Bankruptcy costs increase faster than the tax shield
beyond this point, implying a reduction in firm value from further leverage.
The preceding discussion presents two factors that affect the degree of leverage.
Unfortunately, no formula exists at this time to exactly determine the optimal debt level for a
particular firm. This is primarily because financial distress costs cannot be expressed in a pre-
cise way. However, our discussion leads naturally to the idea that a firm’s capital structure deci-
sions can be thought of as a trade-off between the tax benefits of debt and the costs of financial
distress. In fact, this approach is frequently called the trade-off or the static trade-off theory of
capital structure. The implication is that there is an optimum amount of debt for any individual
firm. The optimum amount of debt becomes the firm’s target debt level. (In the real world of 
finance, this optimum is frequently referred to as the firm’s debt capacity.) The last section of
this chapter offers some rules of thumb for selecting a debt-equity ratio in the real world.
Our situation reminds one of a quote of John Maynard Keynes. He reputedly said that,
although most historians would agree that Queen Elizabeth I was both a better monarch and
an unhappier woman than Queen Victoria, no one has yet been able to express the statement
in a precise and rigorous formula.
Pie Again
Critics of the MM theory often say that MM fails when we add such real-world issues as
taxes and bankruptcy costs. Taking that view, however, blinds critics to the real value of the
MM theory. The pie approach offers a more constructive way of thinking about these mat-
ters and the role of capital structure.
Taxes are just another claim on the cash flows of the firm. Let G (for government and
taxes) stand for the market value of the government’s claim to the firm’s taxes. Bankruptcy
costs are also another claim on the cash flows. Let us label their value with an L (for
lawyers?). The bankruptcy costs are cash flows paid from the firm’s cash flows in a bank-
ruptcy. The cash flows to the claim L rise with the debt-equity ratio.
The pie theory says that all these claims are paid from only one source, the cash flows
(CF) of the firm. Algebraically, we must have
CF  Payments to stockholders

Payments to bondholders

Payments to the government

Payments to lawyers

Payments to any and all other claimants 
to the cash flows of the firm
Figure 16.2 shows the new pie. No matter how many slices we take and no matter who
gets them, they must still add up to the total cash flow. The value of the firm, VT, is unaltered
by the capital structure. Now, however, we must be broader in our definition of the firm’s value
VT  S  B  G  L
We previously wrote the firm’s value as
S  B
when we ignored taxes and bankruptcy costs.
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
433

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
440
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Nor have we even begun to exhaust the list of financial claims to the firm’s cash flows. To
give an unusual example, everyone reading this book has an economic claim to the cash flows
of General Motors. After all, if you are injured in an accident, you might sue GM. Win or lose,
GM will expend resources dealing with the matter. If you think this is farfetched and unim-
portant, ask yourself what GM might be willing to pay every man, woman, and child in the
country to have them promise that they would never sue GM, no matter what happened. The
law does not permit such payments, but that does not mean that a value to all of those poten-
tial claims does not exist. We guess that it would run into the billions of dollars, and, for GM
or any other company, there should be a slice of the pie labeled LS for “potential lawsuits.”
This is the essence of the MM intuition and theory: V is V(CF) and depends on the to-
tal cash flow of the firm. The capital structure cuts it into slices.
There is, however, an important difference between claims such as those of stockhold-
ers and bondholders on the one hand and those of government and potential litigants in law-
suits on the other. The first set of claims are marketed claims, and the second set are non-
marketed claims. One difference is that the marketed claims can be bought and sold in
financial markets, and the nonmarketed claims cannot.
When we speak of the value of the firm, generally we are referring just to the value of
the marketed claims, VM, and not the value of nonmarketed claims, VN. What we have
shown is that the total value,
VT  S  B  G  L
 VM  VN
is unaltered. But, as we saw, the value of the marketed claims, VM, can change with changes
in the capital structure in general and the debt-equity ratio in particular.
By the pie theory, any increase in VM must imply an identical decrease in VN. In an effi-
cient market we showed that the capital structure will be chosen to maximize the value of the
marketed claims, VM. We can equivalently think of the efficient market as working to mini-
mize the value of the nonmarketed claims, VN. These are taxes and bankruptcy costs in the
previous example, but they also include all the other nonmarketed claims such as the LS claim.
• List all the claims to the firm’s assets.
• Describe marketed claims and nonmarketed claims.
• How can a firm maximize the value of its marketed claims?
434
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
Value of firm
Bondholder
claims
Shareholder
claims
Bankruptcy
claims
Tax
claims
Value of firm
Shareholders
Bondholders
Bankruptcy claims
Taxes (government)
Paid out to
I FIGURE 16.2 The Pie Model with Real-World Factors
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
441
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
16.5 SHIRKING, PERQUISITES, AND BAD INVESTMENTS: 
A NOTE ON AGENCY COST OF EQUITY
The previous section introduced the static trade-off model, where a rise in debt increases
both the tax shield and the costs of distress. We now extend the trade-off model by consid-
ering an important agency cost of equity. A discussion of this cost of equity is contained in
a well-known quote from Adam Smith.14
The directors of such [joint-stock] companies, however, being the managers of other people’s
money than of their own, it cannot well be expected that they should watch over it with the
same anxious vigilance with which the partners in a private copartnery frequently watch over
their own. Like the stewards of a rich man, they are apt to consider attention to small matters
as not for their master’s honor, and very easily give themselves a dispensation from having it.
Negligence and profusion, therefore, must always prevail, more or less, in the management of
the affairs of such a company.
This elegant prose can be restated in modern-day vocabulary. An individual will work
harder for a firm if she is one of its owners than if she is just an employee. In addition, the
individual will work harder if she owns a large percentage of the company than if she owns
a small percentage. This idea has an important implication for capital structure, which we
illustrate with the following example.
EXAMPLE
Ms. Pagell is an owner-entrepreneur running a computer-services firm worth $1 mil-
lion. She currently owns 100 percent of the firm. Because of the need to expand, she
must raise another $2 million. She can either issue $2 million of debt at 12-percent
interest or issue $2 million in stock. The cash flows under the two alternatives are
presented below:
Debt Issue
Stock Issue
Cash
Cash
Flow to
Flow to
Ms.
Ms.
Cash
Pagell
Cash
Pagell
Cash
Flow to
(100% of
Cash
Flow to
(331⁄3%
Flow
Interest
Equity
equity)
Flow
Interest
Equity
of equity)
6-hour 
days
$300,000
$240,000
$ 60,000
$ 60,000 $300,000
0
$300,000
$100,000
10-hour 
days
400,000
240,000
160,000
160,000
400,000
0
400,000
133,333
Like any entrepreneur, Ms. Pagell can choose the degree of intensity with which
she works. In our example, she can either work a 6- or a 10-hour day. With the debt
issue, the extra work brings her $100,000 ($160,000  $60,000) more income.
However, let’s assume that with a stock issue she retains only a one-third interest in
the equity. Here, the extra work brings her merely $33,333 ($133,333  $100,000).
Being only human, she is likely to work harder if she issues debt. In other words, she
has more incentive to shirk if she issues equity.
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
435
14Adam Smith, The Wealth of Nations [1776], Cannon edition (New York: Modern Library, 1937), p. 700, as
quoted in M. C. Jensen and W. Meckling, “Theory of the Firm: Managerial Behavior, Agency Costs, and
Ownership Structure,” Journal of Financial Economics 3 (1978).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
442
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
In addition, she is likely to obtain more perquisites (a big office, a company
car, more expense-account meals) if she issues stock. If she is a one-third stock-
holder, two-thirds of these costs are paid for by the other stockholders. If she is the
sole owner, any additional perquisites reduce her equity stake.
Finally, she is more likely to take on capital-budgeting projects with negative
net present values. It might seem surprising that a manager with any equity inter-
est at all would take on negative NPV projects, since stock price would clearly fall
here. However, managerial salaries generally rise with firm size, indicating that
managers have an incentive to accept some unprofitable projects after all the prof-
itable ones have been taken on. That is, when an unprofitable project is accepted,
the loss in stock value to a manager with only a small equity interest may be less
than the increase in salary. In fact, it is our opinion that losses from accepting bad
projects are far greater than losses from either shirking or excessive perquisites.
Hugely unprofitable projects have bankrupted whole firms, something that even
the largest of expense accounts is unlikely to do.
Thus, as the firm issues more equity, our entrepreneur will likely increase leisure
time, work-related perquisites, and unprofitable investments. These three items are
called agency costs, because managers of the firm are agents of the stockholders.15
This example is quite applicable to a small company considering a large stock offer-
ing. Because a manager-owner will greatly dilute his or her share in the total equity in this
case, a significant drop in work intensity or a significant increase in fringe benefits is pos-
sible. However, the example may be less applicable for a large corporation with many stock-
holders. For example, consider a large company such as General Motors going public for
the umpteenth time. The typical manager there already has such a small percentage stake
in the firm that any temptation for negligence has probably been experienced before. An ad-
ditional offering cannot be expected to increase this temptation.
Who bears the burden of these agency costs? If the new stockholders invest with their
eyes open, they do not. Knowing that Ms. Pagell may work shorter hours, they will pay only
a low price for the stock. Thus, it is the owner who is hurt by agency costs. However, Ms.
Pagell can protect herself to some extent. Just as stockholders reduce bankruptcy costs
through protective covenants, an owner may allow monitoring by new stockholders.
However, though proper reporting and surveillance may reduce the agency costs of equity,
these techniques are unlikely to eliminate them.
It is commonly suggested that leveraged buyouts (LBOs) significantly reduce the
above cost of equity. In an LBO, a purchaser (usually a team of existing management) buys
out the stockholders at a price above the current market. In other words, the company goes
private since the stock is placed in the hands of only a few people. Because the managers
now own a substantial chunk of the business, they are likely to work harder than when they
were simply hired hands.16
436
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
15As previously discussed, agency costs are generally defined as the costs from the conflicts of interest among
stockholders, bondholders, and managers.
16One professor we know introduces his classes to LBOs by asking the students three questions:
1. How many of you have ever owned your own car?
2. How many of you have ever rented a car?
3. How many of you took better care of the car you owned than the car you rented?
Just as it is human nature to take better care of your own car, it is human nature to work harder when you own
more of the company.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
443
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Effect of Agency Costs of Equity on Debt-Equity Financing
The preceding discussion on the agency costs of equity should be viewed as an extension of
the static trade-off model. That is, we stated in Section 16.4 that the change in the value of the
firm when debt is substituted for equity is the difference between (1) the tax shield on debt
and (2) the increase in the costs of financial distress (including the agency costs of debt). Now,
the change in the value of the firm is (1) the tax shield on debt plus (2) the reduction in the
agency costs of equity minus (3) the increase in the costs of financial distress (including the
agency costs of debt). The optimal debt-equity ratio would be higher in a world with agency
costs of equity than in a world without these costs. However, because costs of financial dis-
tress are so significant, the costs of equity do not imply 100-percent debt financing.
Free Cash Flow
Any reader of murder mysteries knows that a criminal must have both motive and opportu-
nity. The above discussion was about motive. Managers with only a small ownership inter-
est have an incentive for wasteful behavior. For example, they bear only a small portion of
the costs of, say, excessive expense accounts, and reap all of the benefits.
Now let’s talk about opportunity. A manager can only pad his expense account if the
firm has the cash flow to cover it. Thus, we might expect to see more wasteful activity in a
firm with a capacity to generate large cash flows than in one with a capacity to generate
only small flows. This very simple idea, which is formally called the free cash flow hy-
pothesis, has recently attracted the attention of the academic community.17
A fair amount of academic work supports the hypothesis. For example, a frequently
cited paper found that firms with high free cash flow are more likely to make bad acquisi-
tions than firms with low free cash flow.18
The hypothesis has important implications for capital structure. Since dividends leave
the firm, they reduce free cash flow. Thus, according to the free cash flow hypothesis, an
increase in dividends should benefit the stockholders by reducing the ability of managers
to pursue wasteful activities. Furthermore, since interest and principal also leave the firm,
debt reduces free cash flow as well. In fact, interest and principal should have a greater ef-
fect than dividends have on the free-spending ways of managers, because bankruptcy will
occur if the firm is unable to make future debt payments. By contrast, a future dividend re-
duction will cause fewer problems to the managers, since the firm has no legal obligation
to pay dividends. Because of this, the free cash flow hypothesis argues that a shift from eq-
uity to debt will boost firm value.
In summary, the free cash flow hypothesis provides still another reason for firms to is-
sue debt. We previously discussed the cost of equity; new equity dilutes the holdings of
managers with equity interests, increasing their motive to waste corporate resources. We
now state that debt reduces free cash flow, because the firm must make interest and princi-
pal payments. The free cash flow hypothesis implies that debt reduces the opportunity for
managers to waste resources.
• What are agency costs?
• Why are shirking and perquisites considered an agency cost of equity?
• How do agency costs of equity affect the firm’s debt-equity ratio?
• What is the free cash flow hypothesis?
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
437
17The seminal article is Michael C. Jensen, “Agency Costs of Free Cash Flow, Corporate Finance Takeovers,”
American Economic Review 76 (1986), pp. 323–39.
18L. Lang, R. Stulz, and R. Walkling, “Managerial Performance, Tobin’s Q and the Gains in Tender Offers,”
Journal of Financial Economics (1989).
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
444
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
16.6 THE PECKING-ORDER THEORY
Although the trade-off theory has dominated corporate finance circles for a long time, at-
tention is also being paid to the pecking-order theory.19 To understand this view of the
world, let’s put ourselves in the position of a corporate financial manager whose firm needs
new capital. The manager faces a choice between issuing debt and issuing equity. Previ-
ously, we evaluated the choice in terms of tax benefits, distress costs, and agency costs.
However, there is one consideration that we have so far neglected: timing.
Imagine the manager saying:
I want to issue stock in one situation only—when it is overvalued. If the stock of my firm is
selling at $50 per share, but I think that it is actually worth $60, I will not issue stock. I would
actually be giving new stockholders a gift, because they would receive stock worth $60, but
would only have to pay $50 for it. More importantly, my current stockholders would be upset,
because the firm would be receiving $50 in cash, but giving away something worth $60. So if I
believe that my stock is undervalued, I would issue bonds. Bonds, particularly those with little
or no risk of default, are likely to be priced correctly. Their value is primarily determined by
the marketwide interest rate, a variable that is publicly known.
But, suppose that our stock is selling at $70. Now I’d like to issue stock. If I can get some
fool to buy our stock for $70 while the stock is really only worth $60, I will be making $10 for
our current shareholders.
Now, although this may strike you as a cynical view, it seems to square well with reality.
Before the United States adopted insider trading and disclosure laws, many managers were al-
leged to have unfairly trumpeted their firm’s prospects prior to equity issuance. And, even to-
day, managers seem more willing to issue equity after the price of their stock has risen than af-
ter their stock has fallen in price. Thus, timing might be an important motive in equity issuance,
perhaps even more important than those motives in the trade-off model. After all, the firm in
the preceding example immediately makes $10 by properly timing the issuance of equity. Ten
dollars worth of agency costs and bankruptcy cost reduction might take many years to realize.
The key that makes the example work is asymmetric information; the manager must
know more about his firm’s prospects than does the typical investor. If the manager’s esti-
mate of the true worth of the company is no better than the estimate of a typical investor,
any attempts by the manager to time will fail. This assumption of asymmetry is quite plau-
sible. Managers should know more about their company than do outsiders, because man-
agers work at the company every day. (One caveat is that some managers are perpetually
optimistic about their firm, blurring good judgment.)
But we are not done with this example yet; we must consider the investor. Imagine an
investor saying:
I make investments carefully, because it involves my hard-earned money. However, even with
all the time I put into studying stocks, I can’t possibly know what the managers themselves
know. After all, I’ve got a day job to be concerned with. So, I watch what the managers do. If a
firm issues stock, the firm was likely overvalued beforehand. If a firm issues debt, it was likely
overvalued.
When we look at both issuers and investors, we see a kind of poker game, with each
side trying to outwit the other. There are two prescriptions to the issuer in this poker game.
The first one, which is fairly straightforward, is to issue debt instead of equity when the
438
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
19The pecking order theory is generally attributed to S. C. Myers, “The Capital Structure Puzzle,” Journal of
Finance 39 (July 1984).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
445
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
stock is undervalued. The second, which is more subtle, is to issue debt also when the firm
is overvalued. After all, if a firm issues equity, investors will infer that the stock is overval-
ued. They will not buy it until the stock has fallen enough to eliminate any advantage from
equity issuance. In fact, only the most overvalued firms have any incentive to issue equity.
Should even a moderately overpriced firm issue equity, investors will infer that this firm is
among the most overpriced, causing the stock to fall more than is deserved. Thus, the end
result is that virtually no one will issue equity.20
This result that essentially all firms should issue debt is clearly an extreme one. It is as
extreme as (1) the Modigliani-Miller (MM) result that, in a world without taxes, firms are
indifferent to capital structure and (2) the MM result that, in a world of corporate taxes but
no financial distress costs, all firms should be 100 percent debt-financed. Perhaps we in fi-
nance have a penchant for extreme models!
But, just as one can temper MM’s conclusions by combining financial distress costs
with corporate taxes, we can temper those of the pure pecking-order theory. This pure ver-
sion assumes that timing is the financial manager’s only consideration. In reality, a man-
ager must consider taxes, financial distress costs, and agency costs as well. Thus, a firm may
issue debt only up to a point. If financial distress becomes a real possibility beyond that
point, the firm may issue equity instead.
Rules of the Pecking Order
For expository purposes, we have oversimplified by comparing equity to riskless debt.
Managers cannot use special knowledge of their firm to determine if this type of debt is
mispriced, because the price of riskless debt is determined solely by the marketwide inter-
est rate. However, in reality, corporate debt has the possibility of default. Thus, just as man-
agers have a tendency to issue equity when they think it is overvalued, managers also have
a tendency to issue debt when they think it is overvalued.
When would managers view their debt as overvalued? Probably in the same situations
when they think their equity is overvalued. For example, if the public thinks that the firm’s
prospects are rosy but the managers see trouble ahead, these managers would view their
debt—as well as their equity—as being overvalued. That is, the public might see the debt
as nearly risk-free, whereas the managers see a strong possibility of default.
Thus, investors are likely to price a debt issue with the same skepticism that they have
when pricing an equity issue. The way managers get out of this box is to finance projects
out of retained earnings. You don’t have to worry about investor skepticism if you can avoid
going to investors in the first place. Thus, the first rule of the pecking order is:
Rule 1
Use internal financing.
However, although investors fear mispricing of both debt and equity, the fear is much
greater for equity. Corporate debt still has relatively little risk compared to equity because,
if financial distress is avoided, investors receive a fixed return. Thus, the pecking-order the-
ory implies that, if outside financing is required, debt should be issued before equity. Only
when the firm’s debt capacity is reached should the firm consider equity.
Of course, there are many types of debt. For example, because convertible debt is more
risky than straight debt, the pecking-order theory implies that one should issue straight debt
before issuing convertibles. Thus, the second rule of pecking-order theory is:
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
439
20In the interest of simplicity, we have not presented our results in the form of a rigorous model. To the extent
that a reader wants a deeper explanation, we refer him or her to S. C. Myers. “The Capital Structure Puzzle,”
Journal of Finance (July 1984).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
446
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Rule 2
Issue the safest securities first.
Implications
There are a number of implications associated with the pecking-order theory that are at odds
with the trade-off theory.
1. There is no target amount of leverage. According to the trade-off model, each firm
balances the benefits of debt, such as the tax shield, with the costs of debt, such as distress
costs. The optimal amount of leverage occurs where the marginal benefit of debt equals the
marginal cost of debt.
By contrast, the pecking-order theory does not imply a target amount of leverage.
Rather, each firm chooses its leverage ratio based on financing needs. Firms first fund proj-
ects out of retained earnings. This should lower the percentage of debt in the capital struc-
ture, because profitable, internally funded projects raise both the book value and the mar-
ket value of equity. Additional cash needs are met with debt, clearly raising the debt level.
However, at some point the debt capacity of the firm may be exhausted, giving way to eq-
uity issuance. Thus, the amount of leverage is determined by the happenstance of available
projects. Firms do not pursue a target ratio of debt to equity.
2. Profitable firms use less debt. Profitable firms generate cash internally, implying
less need for outside financing. Because firms desiring outside capital turn to debt first,
profitable firms end up relying on less debt. The trade-off model does not have this impli-
cation. The greater cash flow of more profitable firms creates greater debt capacity. These
firms will use that debt capacity to capture the tax shield and the other benefits of leverage.
Two recent papers find that in the real world, more profitable firms are less levered,21 a re-
sult consistent with the pecking-order theory.
3. Companies like financial slack. The pecking-order theory is based on the difficul-
ties of obtaining financing at a reasonable cost. A skeptical investing public thinks a stock
is overvalued if the managers try to issue more of it, thereby leading to a stock-price de-
cline. Because this happens with bonds only to a lesser extent, managers rely first on bond
financing. However, firms can only issue so much debt before encountering the potential
costs of financial distress.
Wouldn’t it be easier to have the cash ahead of time? This is the idea behind financial
slack. Because firms know that they will have to fund profitable projects at various times in
the future, they accumulate cash today. They are then not forced to go to the capital mar-
kets when a project comes up. However, there is a limit to the amount of cash a firm will
want to accumulate. As mentioned earlier in this chapter, too much free cash may tempt
managers to pursue wasteful activities.
• What is the pecking-order theory?
• What are the problems of issuing equity according to this theory?
• What is financial slack?
440
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
21See L. S. Sunder and S. C. Myers, “Testing Static Trade-off Against Pecking Order Models of Capital
Structure,” Journal of Financial Economics (February 1999), and E. F. Fama and K. R. French, “Testing Trade-
off and Pecking Order Predictions about Dividends and Debt,” unpublished paper, University of Chicago
(November 1999). Most recently Armen Hovakimian, Tim Opler and Sheridan Titman, “The Debt-Equity
Choice,” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (March 2001) find that while pecking order
considerations affect firm debt levels in the short run, firms tend to move to target debt ratios in a manner
consistent with the trade-off model.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
447
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
16.7 GROWTH AND THE DEBT-EQUITY RATIO
While the trade-off between the tax shield and bankruptcy costs (as illustrated in Figure
16.1) is often viewed as the “standard model” of capital structure, it has its critics. For ex-
ample, some point out that bankruptcy costs in the real world appear to be much smaller
than the tax subsidy. Thus, the model implies that the optimal debt/value ratio should be
near 100 percent, an implication at odds with reality.22
Perhaps the pecking-order theory is more consistent with the real world here. That is,
firms are likely to have more equity in their capital structure than implied by the static trade-
off theory, because internal financing is preferred to external financing.
In addition, a relatively recent article argues that growth implies significant equity fi-
nancing, even in a world with low bankruptcy costs.23 To explain the idea, we first consider
an example of a no-growth firm. Next, we examine the effect of growth on firm leverage.
No-Growth
Imagine a world of perfect certainty24 where a firm has earnings before interest and taxes
(EBIT) of $100. In addition, the firm has issued $1,000 of debt at an interest rate of 10 per-
cent, implying interest payments of $100 per year. The cash flows to the firm are:
Date
1
2
3
4 . . .
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT)
$100
$100
$100
$100 . . .
Interest
100
100
100
100 . . .
____
____
____
________
Taxable income
$
0
$
0
$
0
$
0
The firm has issued just enough debt so that all EBIT is paid out as interest. Since interest
is tax-deductible, the firm pays no taxes. In this example, the equity is worthless because
stockholders receive no cash flows. Since debt is worth $1,000, the firm is also valued at
$1,000. Therefore, the debt-to-value ratio is 100 percent ( $1,000/$1,000).
Had the firm issued less than $1,000 of debt, the corporation would have positive tax-
able income and, consequently, would have ended up paying some taxes. Had the firm is-
sued more than $1,000 of debt, interest would have exceeded EBIT, causing default.
Consequently, the optimal debt-to-value ratio is 100 percent.
Growth
Now imagine another firm that also has EBIT of $100 at date 1 but is growing at 5 per-
cent per year.25 To eliminate taxes, this firm also wants to issue enough debt so that in-
terest equals EBIT. Since EBIT is growing at 5 percent per year, interest must also grow
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
441
22See Merton Miller’s Presidential Address to the American Finance Association, reprinted as “Debt and Taxes,”
Journal of Finance (May 1977).
23This new idea is introduced and analyzed in J. L. Berens and C. L. Cuny, “Inflation, Growth and Capital
Structure,” Review of Financial Studies 8 (Winter 1995).
24The same qualitative results occur under uncertainty, though the mathematics is more troublesome.
25For simplicity, assume that growth is achieved without earnings retention. The same conclusions would be
reached with retained earnings, though the arithmetic would become more involved. Of course, growth without
earnings retention is less realistic than growth with retention.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
448
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
at this rate. This is achieved by increasing debt by 5 percent per year.26 The debt and in-
come levels are:
Date
0
1
2
3
4 . . .
Debt
$1,000
$1,050
$1,102.50
$1,157.63 . . .
New debt issued
50
52.50
55.13 . . .
EBIT
$ 100
$ 105
$ 110.25
$115.76 . . .
Interest
100
105
110.25
115.76 . . .
_____
________
___________
__________
Taxable income
$
0
$
0
$
0
$ 0
Note that interest on a particular date is always 10 percent of the debt on the previous date.
Debt is set so that interest is exactly equal to EBIT. As in the no-growth case, the levered
firm has the maximum amount of debt at each date. Default would occur if interest pay-
ments were increased.
Because growth is 5 percent per year, the value of the firm is:27
VFirm 
The equity at date 0 is the difference between the value of the firm at that time, $2,000, and
the debt of $1,000. Hence, equity must be equal to $1,000,28 implying a debt-to-value ratio
of 50 percent ( $1,000/$2,000). Note the important difference between the no-growth and
the growth example. The no-growth example has no equity; the value of the firm is simply
the value of the debt. With growth, there is equity as well as debt.
We can also value the equity in another way. It may appear at first glance that the stock-
holders receive nothing, because the EBIT is paid out as interest each year. However, the new
debt issued each year can be paid as a dividend to the stockholders. Because the new debt is
$50 at date 1 and grows at 5 percent per year, the value of the stockholders’ interest is
the same number that we obtained in the previous paragraph.
As we mentioned earlier, any further increase in debt above $1,000 at date 0 would
lower the value of the firm in a world with bankruptcy costs. Thus, with growth, the opti-
mal amount of debt is less than 100 percent. Note, however, that bankruptcy costs need not
be as large as the tax subsidy. In fact, even with infinitesimally small bankruptcy costs, firm
value would decline if promised interest rose above $100 in the first year. The key to this
example is that today’s interest is set equal to today’s income. While the introduction of fu-
ture growth opportunities increases firm value, it does not increase the current level of debt
needed to shield today’s income from today’s taxes. Since equity is the difference between
firm value and debt, growth increases the value of equity.
$50
0.10  0.05  $1,000
$100
0.10  0.05  $2,000
442
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
26Since the firm makes no real investment, the new debt is used to buy back shares of stock.
27The firm can also be valued by a variant of (15.7):
VL  VU  PVTS
Because of firm growth, both VU and PVTS are growing perpetuities.
28Students are often surprised that equity has value when taxable income is zero. Actually, the equityholders are
receiving cash flow each period, since new debt is used to buy back stock.
 $1001  TC
0.10  0.05  TC  $100
0.10  0.05  $2,000

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
449
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The preceding example captures an essential feature of the real world: growth. The same
conclusion is reached in a world of inflation but with no growth opportunities. The result of this
section, that 100 percent debt financing is suboptimal, holds whether growth opportunities
and/or inflation is present. Since most firms have growth opportunities and since inflation has
been with us for most of this century, this section’s example is based on realistic assumptions.29
The basic point is this: High-growth firms will have lower debt ratios than low-growth firms.
• How do growth opportunities decrease the advantage of debt financing?
16.8 PERSONAL TAXES
So far in the chapter, we have considered corporate taxes only. Unfortunately, the IRS does
not let us off that easily. Income to individuals is taxed at marginal rates up to 39.6 percent.
To see the effect of personal taxes on capital structure, we have reproduced our Water Prod-
ucts example (from Section 15.5) below.
Plan I
Plan II
EBIT
$1,000,000
$1,000,000
Interest (rBB)
0
(400,000)
_________
_________
Earnings before taxes
1,000,000
600,000
(EBT  EBIT  rBB)
Taxes (TC  0.35)
(350,000)
(210,000)
_________
_________
Earnings after taxes
650,000
390,000
[EAT  (EBIT  rBB)  (1  TC)]
Add back interest (rBB)
0
400,000
_________
_________
Total cash flow to all investors
$ 650,000
$ 790,000
[EBIT  (1  TC)  TCrBB]
As presented above, this example considers corporate but not personal taxes. To treat these per-
sonal taxes, we first assume that all earnings after taxes are paid out as dividends. Because div-
idends and interest are both taxed at the same personal rate (we assume 28 percent), we have
Plan I
Plan II
Dividends
$650,000
$390,000
Personal taxes on dividends
(Personal rate  28%)
(182,000)
(109,200)
_______
_______
Dividends after personal taxes
$468,000
$280,800
Interest
0
400,000
Personal taxes on interest
0
(112,000)
_______
_______
Interest after personal taxes
0
288,000
_________
_________
Total cash flow to both bondholders 
and stockholders after personal taxes
$468,000
$568,800
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
443
29Our example assumes a single perpetual bond with level coupon payments. Berens and Cuny (BC) point out
(p. 1201) that, with a number of different bonds, a firm might be able to construct an equally optimal capital
structure with a greater debt-to-value (D/V) ratio. Because both capital structures are equally optimal, a firm
might choose either one.
Although the analysis with many financing instruments is more complex, a firm can still choose a low D/V
with no ill effect. Thus, BC’s conclusion that firms can employ a significant amount of equity in a world with a
low level of bankruptcy costs still holds.
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
450
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Total taxes paid at both corporate and personal levels are
Plan I:
$350,000

$182,000
 $532,000
Corporate taxes
Personal taxes
on dividends
Plan II:
$210,000

$109,200

$112,000
 $431,200
Corporate taxes
Personal taxes
Personal taxes
on dividends
on interest
Total cash flow to all investors after personal taxes is greater under plan II. This must
be the case because (1) total cash flow was higher when personal taxes were ignored and
(2) all cash flows (both interest and dividends) are taxed at the same personal tax rate. Thus,
the conclusion that debt increases the value of the firm still holds. Note that the difference
between the two plans in the total cash flow to all investors, $100,800 ( 568,800 
468,000), is exactly equal to the difference in taxes of $100,800 ( 532,000  431,200).
Thus, the effect of leverage on cash flow is totally explained by taxes.
The above analysis assumed that all earnings are paid out in dividends. In reality, a firm
may repurchase shares in lieu of dividends, a strategy resulting in lower personal taxes than
would have occurred with dividends.30 Alternatively, dividends may be deferred through re-
tention of earnings. Thus, the effective personal tax rate on distributions to stockholders is
likely to be below the personal tax rate on interest.
To illustrate this tax rate differential, let us assume that the effective personal tax rate
on distributions to stockholders, TS, is 10 percent and the personal tax rate on interest, TB,
is 50 percent.31 The cash flows for the two plans are
Plan I
Plan II
Distributions to stockholders
$650,000
$390,000
Personal taxes on stockholder
distributions (at 10% tax rate)
(65,000)
(39,000)
_______
_______
Distribution to stockholders
$585,000
$351,000
after personal taxes
Interest
0
400,000
Personal taxes on interest 
(at 50% tax rate)
0
(200,000)
_______
_______
Interest after personal taxes
0
200,000
_________
_________
Total cash flow to both bond-
holders and stockholders 
after personal taxes
$585,000
$551,000
444
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
30Under the current U.S. tax code, dividends are taxed at an individual’s marginal tax rate. Long-term capital
gains are taxed at the lower of (a) the individual’s marginal tax bracket or (b) 28 percent.
Interestingly, individuals face higher taxes on a dividend than on a long-term capital gain of equal size,
even if tax rates on the two forms of income are the same. To see this, imagine a firm where all stockholders
own 10 shares, each selling for $20. On the one hand, the firm can pay out a $2 dividend per share. Here, each
stockholder would receive $20 of dividends and pay taxes of
TS  $20
where TS is the tax rate on both dividends and capital gains. On the other hand, the firm could repurchase one tenth
of all the outstanding shares at the market price. Assuming that all shareholders participate in the repurchase, each
shareholder would sell one share of stock. Because a share sells for $20, total payout from the firm is the same for
the repurchase as it is for the dividend. Upon receiving $20, the shareholder’s gain on the sale would be $20  P0.
Here P0 is the price at which the share was originally purchased. This implies a capital gains tax of
($20  P0)  TS
31This 50-percent tax rate was possible under previous tax codes, where the highest marginal rate was 70
percent. However, it is not possible today.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
451
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Total taxes paid at both personal and corporate levels are
Plan I:
$350,000

$65,000
 $415,000
Corporate taxes
Personal taxes
on dividends
Plan II:
$210,000

$39,000

$200,000
 $449,000
Corporate taxes
Personal taxes
Personal taxes
on dividends
on interest
In this scenario, the total cash flows are higher under plan I than under plan II. Though
this example is expressed in terms of cash flows, we would expect the value of the firm to
be higher under plan I than under plan II. Which plan does the IRS dislike the most? Clearly,
the IRS dislikes plan I more because total taxes are lower. The increase in corporate taxes
under the all-equity plan is more than offset by the decrease in personal taxes.
Interest receives a tax deduction at the corporate level. Equity distributions may be taxed
at a lower rate than interest at the personal level. The above examples illustrate that total tax
at all levels may either increase or decrease with debt, depending on the tax rates in effect.
The Miller Model
Valuation under Personal and Corporate Taxes
The previous example calculated cash
flows for the two plans under personal and corporate taxes. However, we have made no at-
tempt to determine firm value so far. It can be shown that the value of the levered firm can
be expressed in terms of an unlevered firm as32
(16.1)
TB is the personal tax rate on ordinary income, such as interest, and TS is the personal tax
rate on equity distributions.
If we set TB  TS, (16.1) reduces to
VL  VU  TCB
(16.2)
VL  VU  1  1  TC  1  TS
1  TB
	  B
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
445
32Stockholders receive
(EBIT  rBB)  (1  TC)  (1  TS)
Bondholders receive
rBB  (1  TB)
Thus, the total cash flow to all investors is
(EBIT  rBB)  (1  TC)  (1  TS)  rBB  (1  TB)
which can be rewritten as
EBIT  (1  TC)  (1  TS)  rBB  (1  TB) 
(a)
The first term in (a) is the cash flow from an unlevered firm after all taxes. The value of this stream must be VU,
the value of an unlevered firm. An individual buying a bond for B receives rBB  (1  TB) after all taxes. Thus,
the value of the second term in (a) must be
Therefore, the value of the stream in (a), which is the value of the levered firm, must be
VU  1  1  TC  1  TS
1  TB
	  B
B  1  1  TC  1  TS
1  TB
	
1  1  TC  1  TS
1  TB
	

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
452
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
which is the result we calculated for a world of no personal taxes. Hence, the introduction
of personal taxes does not affect our valuation formula as long as equity distributions are
taxed identically to interest at the personal level.
However, the gain from leverage is reduced when TS 
 TB. Here, more taxes are
paid at the personal level for a levered firm than for an unlevered firm. In fact, imagine
that (1  TC)  (1  TS)  1  TB. Formula (16.1) tells us there is no gain from lever-
age at all! In other words, the value of the levered firm is equal to the value of the un-
levered firm. This lack of gain occurs because the lower corporate taxes for a levered
firm are exactly offset by higher personal taxes. The above results are presented in
Figure 16.3. The Miller model is further examined in Appendix B of this chapter.
EXAMPLE
Acme Industries anticipates a perpetual pretax earnings stream of $100,000 and faces
a 35-percent corporate tax rate. Investors discount the earnings stream after corporate
taxes at 15 percent. The personal tax rate on equity distributions is 12 percent, and the
personal tax rate on interest is 28 percent. Acme currently has an all-equity capital
structure but is considering borrowing $120,000 at 10 percent.
The value of the all-equity firm is33
The value of the levered firm is
VL  $433,333  1  1  0.35  1  0.12
1  0.28
	  $120,000  $458,000
VU  $100,000  1  0.35
0.15
 $433,333
446
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
Value of firm (V)
VU
0
Debt (B)
VL = VU + TCB when TS = TB
VL < VU + TCB
when TS < TB but (1 – TB) > (1 – TC)  (1 – TS)
VL = VU when (1 – TB) = (1 – TC)  (1 – TS)
VL < VU when (1 – TB) < (1 – TC)  (1 – TS)
I FIGURE 16.3 Effect of Financial Leverage on Firm Value with Both
Corporate and Personal Taxes
TC is the corporate tax rate.
TB is the personal tax rate on interest.
TS is the personal tax rate on dividends and other equity distributions.
Both personal taxes and corporate taxes are included. Bankruptcy costs and agency costs are ignored.
The effect of debt on firm value depends on TS, TC, and TB.
33Alternatively, we could have said that investors discount the earnings stream after both corporate and personal
taxes at 13.20 percent [15%  (1  0.12)]:
Thus, the same value for the unlevered firm would apply.
VU  $100,000  1  0.35  1  0.12
0.1320
 $433,333

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
453
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The advantage to leverage here is $458,000  $433,333  $24,677. This is much
smaller than $42,000  0.35  $120,000  TCB, which would have been the gain
in a world with no personal taxes.
Acme had previously considered the choice years earlier when TB  50% and
TS  18%. Here,
In this case, VL 
 VU. Hence, Acme was wise not to increase leverage years ago.
This inequality occurred because the personal tax rate on interest was much higher
than the personal tax rate on equity distributions. In other words, the reduction in
corporate taxes from leverage was more than offset by the increase in taxes from
leverage at the personal level.
The Miller model provides an elegant description of the capital-structure decision.
However, critics of the model commonly focus on two related areas:
1. Tax Rates in the Real World. Both Figure 16.3 and the previous example show that the
relationship between firm value and leverage depends on personal and corporate tax rates.
Consider 2001, when the marginal corporate tax rate in the United States was 35 percent and
the highest personal tax rate was 39.6 percent. Under the assumption that TS  20% (a some-
what arbitrary assumption), equation (16.1) becomes
Since 0.139  0, there is a gain from leverage. And, while the corporate tax rate of 35
percent applied to essentially all large corporations, most individuals were in tax brackets
well below 39.6 percent, so the gain from leverage was likely even greater still. Thus, as-
suming that TS  20 percent, the Miller model predicted all-debt financing in 2000, clearly
a result at odds with reality.
However, as stated before, our assumption that TS  20% is arbitrary. Depending on the
distribution of both TB and TS across individuals, leverage today may increase, decrease, or
have no effect on firm value. Graham34 analyzes empirically the effect of both personal and
corporate taxes on the leverage decision. He finds that, for almost every year of his sample pe-
riod of 1980–1994, the personal tax rate disadvantage of debt reduces, but does not eliminate,
the corporate tax incentive to use debt. Thus, the Miller model implies all-debt financing over
Graham’s sample period.
2. Unlimited Tax Deductibility. The above discussion casts doubt on an empirical pre-
diction of Miller’s work. One problem is that we have not considered financial distress
costs. Another problem lies in a missing assumption in the model. For example, critics point
out that corporations have unlimited interest deductibility in the model. In reality, firms can
deduct interest only to the extent of profits. Thus, the expected tax benefits of debt financ-
ing under this real-world assumption are clearly less than under the assumption of unlim-
ited deductibility. Two effects are likely to result. First, corporations should supply less
debt, reducing the interest rate. Second, the first unit of debt should increase firm value
more than the last unit, because the interest on later units may not be deductible.
VL  VU  1  1  0.35  1  .20
1  0.396
	  B  VU  0.139B
VL  $433,333  1  1  0.35  1  0.18
1  0.50
	  $120,000  $425,413
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
447
34John R. Graham, “Do Personal Taxes Affect Corporate Financing Decisions?” Journal of Public Economics
73 (1999).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
454
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The results of limited deductibility are provided in Figure 16.4. Because the interest rate
is now lower than that in the strict Miller model, firm value should rise when debt is first
added to the capital structure. However, as more and more debt is issued, the full de-
ductibility of the interest becomes less likely. Firm value still increases, but at a lower and
lower rate. At some point, the probability of tax deductibility is low enough that an incre-
mental dollar of debt is as costly to the firm as an incremental dollar of equity. Firm value
then decreases with further leverage.35
This graph looks surprisingly like the curve in Figure 16.1 where the trade-off between
the tax shield and bankruptcy costs is illustrated. Thus, a key change in assumptions may
explain why firms are never all-debt financed, even when TC is high relative to TB.
16.9 HOW FIRMS ESTABLISH CAPITAL STRUCTURE
The theories of capital structure are among the most elegant and sophisticated in the field
of finance. Financial economists should (and do!) pat themselves on the back for contribu-
tions in this area. However, the practical applications of the theories are less than fully sat-
isfying. Consider that our work on net present value produced an exact formula for evalu-
ating projects. Prescriptions for capital structure under either the trade-off model or the
pecking-order theory are vague by comparison. No exact formula is available for evaluat-
ing the optimal debt-equity ratio. Because of this, we turn to evidence from the real world.
The following empirical regularities are worthwhile to consider when formulating capital-
structure policy.
1. Most Corporations Have Low Debt-Asset Ratios. In fact, historically, most U.S. cor-
porations use less debt than equity financing. Many of these corporations pay substantial
amounts in taxes, and the corporate tax has been an important source of government revenue.
Figures 14.3 and 14.4 show the debt-to-value ratios for U.S. industrial firms in both book
448
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
35H. DeAngelo and R. Masulis, “Optimal Capital Structure under Corporate and Personal Taxation,” Journal of
Financial Economics (March 1980), posit a model where interest on debt is not the firm’s only tax shield.
Investment tax credits, depreciation, and depletion are examples of other tax shields. The authors show results
similar to those in this section.
Value of firm (V)
Debt (B)
I FIGURE 16.4 Value of the Firm under the Miller Model when
Interest Deductibility Is Limited to Earnings
The Miller model with limited deductibility of interest leads to a -shaped
graph similar to the one presented in Figure 16.1. The -shape in Figure 16.1
arose from the trade-off between corporate taxes and bankruptcy costs.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
455
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
and market values for the years 1988 to 1999. Notice that the debt ratios are usually less than
50 percent. Nevertheless firms pay substantial taxes. For example, corporate taxes were al-
most $200 billion in 1996. It is clear that corporations do not issue debt up to the point that
tax shelters are completely used up.36 Figure 16.5 shows the debt-to-total-value ratios of
firms in several countries in recent years. Differences in accounting procedures make these
figures difficult to interpret. However, the debt ratios of U.S. and Canadian firms are the low-
est. In all of the countries, firms have debt ratios considerably less than 100 percent. There
are clearly limits to the amount of debt corporations actually issue.
2. A number of firms use no debt. In a fascinating study, Agrawal and Nagarajan37 ex-
amined approximately 100 firms on the New York Stock Exchange without long-term debt.
They found that these firms are averse to leverage of any kind, with little short-term debt as
well. In addition, they have levels of cash and marketable securities well above their levered
counterparts. Typically, the managers of these firms have high equity ownership. Furthermore,
there is significantly greater family involvement in all-equity firms than in levered firms.
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
449
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Percent
Country
United States
48
Japan
72
Germany
49
Canada
45
France
58
Italy
59
I FIGURE 16.5 Estimated Ratios of Debt to Total Value (accounting value) of Nonfinancial
Firms, Various Countries
Definition: Debt is short-term debt plus long-term debt. Total value is debt plus equity (in book-value terms).
Source: OECD financial statistics.
36John Graham estimates that the average value of the tax benefit of debt is no more than 10 percent of the
firm’s value. He asks the question: Is money left in the table? His answer is a tentative yes. He concludes that
either firms use debt too conservatively or that the financial distress costs (and related costs) are very large.
“How Big Are the Tax Benefits of Debt?” Unpublished manuscript, Duke University (June 2002).
37Anup Agrawal and Nandu Nagarajan, “Corporate Capital Structure, Agency Costs, and Ownership Control:
The Case of All-Equity Firms,” Journal of Finance 45 (September 1990).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
456
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Thus, a story emerges. Managers of all-equity firms are less diversified than the man-
agers of similar, but levered, firms. Because of this, significant leverage represents an added
risk that the managers of all-equity firms are loathe to accept.
3. Changes in Financial Leverage Affect Firm Value. In an important study, Shah38 ex-
amines the effect of announcements of changes in capital structure on stock prices. His re-
sults, which are presented in Figure 16.6, show the stock price behavior of firms that change
their proportions of debt and equity via exchange offers. The solid line in the figure indi-
cates that stock prices rise substantially on the date when an exchange offer increasing
leverage is announced. (This date is referred to in the figure as date 0.) Conversely, the dot-
ted line in the figure indicates that stock price falls substantially when an offer decreasing
leverage is announced.
Shah’s results are consistent with a signaling version of the trade-off model. That is, man-
agers are likely to raise the amount of debt if they believe that the probability of bankruptcy
has been decreased and lower debt if they believe that the probability has been increased.
The market infers from an increase in debt that the firm is better off, leading to a stock-
price rise. Conversely, the market infers the reverse from a decrease in debt, implying a
stock-price fall. Thus, we say that managers signal information when they change leverage.
Shah’s results are also consistent with the pecking-order theory. Here, managers are more
likely to turn debt into equity through an exchange offer when they believe the equity is
overvalued. The market understands this motive, leading to a stock-price decline.
450
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
38K. Shah, “The Nature of Information Conveyed by Pure Capital Structure Changes,” Journal of Financial
Economics 36 (1994), has examined exchange offers; see also, R. Masulis, “The Effects of Capital Structure
Change on Security Prices: A Study of Exchange Offers,” Journal of Financial Economics 8 (1980); M. Cornett
and N. Travlos, “Information Effects Associated with Debt-in-Equity and Equity-in-Debt Exchange Offers,”
Journal of Finance 44 (1989); and T. Copeland and Won Heum Lee, “Exchange Offers and Swaps: New
Evidence,” Financial Management 20 (1991).
Leverage-decreasing
offers
5
0
–5
–10
–15
–20
–25
–30
–35
–40
Leverage-increasing
offers
–100
–50
0
50
100
Days relative to
announcement date
% return
I FIGURE 16.6 Stock Returns at the Time of Announcements of
Exchange Offers
Exchange offers change the debt-to-equity ratios of firms. The graph shows that stock prices
increase for firms whose exchange offers increase leverage. Conversely, stock prices decrease for
firms whose offers decrease leverage.
Source: K. Shah, “The Nature of Information Conveyed by Pure Capital Structure Changes,” Journal of
Financial Economics 36 (August 1994).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
457
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
4. There Are Differences in the Capital Structures of Different Industries. There are
very significant interindustry differences in debt ratios that persist over time. As can be seen
in Table 16.3, debt ratios tend to be very low in high growth industries with ample future
investment opportunities such as the drugs and electronics industries. This is true even when
the need for external financing is great. Industries such as primary metals and paper, with
relatively few investment opportunities and slow growth, tend to use the most debt.
No formula can establish a debt-equity ratio for all companies. However, there is evi-
dence that firms behave as if they had target debt-equity ratios.39 We present three impor-
tant factors affecting the target debt-equity ratio:
1. Taxes. If a company has (and will continue to have) taxable income, an increased re-
liance on debt will reduce taxes paid by the company and increase taxes paid by some
bondholders. If corporate tax rates are higher than bondholder tax rates, there is value
from using debt.
2. Types of Assets. Financial distress is costly, with or without formal bankruptcy proceed-
ings. The costs of financial distress depend on the types of assets that the firm has. For
example, if a firm has a large investment in land, buildings, and other tangible assets, it
will have smaller costs of financial distress than a firm with a large investment in re-
search and development. Research and development typically has less resale value than
land; thus, most of its value disappears in financial distress.
3. Uncertainty of Operating Income. Firms with uncertain operating income have a high prob-
ability of experiencing financial distress, even without debt. Thus, these firms must finance
mostly with equity. For example, pharmaceutical firms have uncertain operating income 
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
451
I TABLE 16.3 Capital Structure Ratios for Selected U.S. Nonfinancial
Firms (medians), 5-Year Average
Debt as a Percentage of
the Market Value of Equity and Debt
High leverage
Building construction
61.5
Hotels and lodging
55.5
Air transport
40.8
Primary metals
36.2
Paper
30.3
Low leverage
Drugs and chemicals
3.1
Electronics
11.1
Biological products
2.3
Computers
9.3
Catalog and mail-order stores
12.1
Definition: Debt is the total of short-term debt and long-term debt.
Source: Ibbotson Associates 1999, Cost of Capital Quarterly, 1999 Yearbook.
39The classic studies showing that firms may have target debt ratios are P. Marsh, “The Choice between Equity
and Debt: An Empirical Study,” Journal of Finance (March 1981); and R. A. Taggart, “A Model of Corporate
Financing Decisions,” Journal of Finance (December 1977).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
458
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
because no one can predict whether today’s research will generate new drugs. Conse-
quently, these firms issue little debt. By contrast, the operating income of utilities generally
has little uncertainty. Relative to other industries, utilities use a great deal of debt.
One final note is in order. Because no formula supports them, the preceding points may
seem too nebulous to assist financial decision making. Instead, many real-world firms sim-
ply base their capital structure decisions on industry averages. While this may strike some
as a cowardly approach, it at least keeps firms from deviating far from accepted practice.
After all, the existing firms in any industry are the survivors. Therefore, one should at least
pay some attention to their decisions.
• List the empirical regularities we observe for corporate capital structure.
• What are the factors to consider in establishing a debt-equity ratio?
16.10 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1. We mentioned in the last chapter that, according to theory, firms should create all-debt capital
structures under corporate taxation. Because firms generally assume moderate amounts of
debt in the real world, the theory must have been missing something at that point. We point
out in this chapter that costs of financial distress cause firms to restrain their issuance of debt.
These costs are of two types: direct and indirect. Lawyers’ and accountants’ fees during the
bankruptcy process are examples of direct costs. We mention four examples of indirect costs:
Impaired ability to conduct business.
Incentive to take on risky projects.
Incentive toward underinvestment.
Distribution of funds to stockholders prior to bankruptcy.
2. Because the above costs are substantial and the stockholders ultimately bear them, firms have
an incentive for cost reduction. We suggest three cost-reduction techniques:
Protective covenants.
Repurchase of debt prior to bankruptcy.
Consolidation of debt.
3. Because costs of financial distress can be reduced but not eliminated, firms will not finance
entirely with debt. Figure 16.1 illustrates the relationship between firm value and debt. In the
figure, firms select the debt-to-equity ratio at which firm value is maximized.
4. The pecking-order theory implies that managers prefer internal to external financing. If
external financing is required, managers tend to choose the safest securities, such as debt.
Firms may accumulate slack to avoid external equity.
5. Berens and Cuny argue that significant equity financing can be explained by real growth and
inflation, even in a world of low bankruptcy costs.
6. The results so far have ignored personal taxes. If distributions to equityholders are taxed at a
lower effective personal tax rate than are interest payments, the tax advantage to debt at the
corporate level is partially offset. In fact, the corporate tax advantage to debt is eliminated if
(1  TC)  (1  TS)  (1  TB)
452
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
459
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
453
EDISON INTERNATIONAL: 
A CASE FOR HIGH DEBT
Edison International is the parent firm of
Southern California Edison (SCE) and five
nonutility companies. Southern California
Edison is the nation’s second largest electric
utility in terms of number of customers.
SCE currently operates in a highly regulated
environment in which it has an obligation to
provide electric service to customers in
return for a monopoly franchise in Southern
California. SCE generated about 90 percent
of the total operating revenue for Edison
International. Traditionally, long-term debt
has been a very prominent part of Edison
International’s capital structure. Its capital
structure in 1999, based on market values, is
illustrated next:
1999
$ (in millions) Percentage
Debt
$16,906
67.2%
Preferred 
stock
1,659
6.6
Market value 
of stock
6,600
26.2
______
_____
Total
$25,165
100.0%
In many ways Edison International is the
opposite of Marshall Industries. It has
grown slowly over the past several years in
a regulated, noncompetitive environment.
The company pays out significant
dividends. Most of its assets are tangible in
the form of transmission, distribution, and
generating systems. The following
questions were asked of Alan J. Fohrer,
Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of Edison International
(as well as Southern California Edison):
RWJ: Traditionally, Edison International
has relied on high leverage—why?
AJF: It is a low cost source of funding and
we have significant borrowing capacity
with a stable revenue stream, high quality
assets in place, and for SCE regulatory
framework. As you know, the interest on
debt is tax-deductible. If we didn’t have
taxes, it would be much different, but the
tax deduction is very important.
RWJ: Does Edison International have a
target leverage ratio?
AJF: Not precisely. We want each
subsidiary to have ready access to the
debt markets. Thus, ratings of BBB and
above are important. A rating below
BBB would make new borrowing more
difficult. The spreads today are minimal.
The biggest issue today is availability.
Edison International is a mature, mostly
regulated firm with cash flow that has not
been used to keep leverage low. Instead, the
company has established a high dividend
payout ratio that has given the cash flow
back to its investors and kept leverage high.
This behavior is consistent with a target
debt ratio and the trade-off theory of capital
structure. A high percentage of Edison’s
assets are tangible and state regulatory
commissions reduce the possibility that
managers can engage in some of the selfish
strategies described earlier in this chapter.
As a consequence, financial distress costs
have been lower for firms like Edison Inter-
national than for nonregulated firms.
EDISON INTERNATIONAL
1999
(in $ millions except as noted)
Revenues
$9,670
Net income
$777
Long-term debt
$13,391
Market value of stock
$6,600
Dividend payout ratio
53%
Rate of return on equity
113%
Debt to total capital
67%
Five-year compound 
annual growth rate 
for revenues
8.5%
Market-to-book value ratio
1.7
Postscript: On January 5, 2001, because of
skyrocketing wholesale electricity prices,
Standard & Poor’s lowered the credit rating
for Edison International to the lowest
investment grade. The stock price of Edison
plummeted and was trading at $103⁄4, about
one-half of the price a year earlier.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
460
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
454
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
QUALCOMM: A CASE FOR LOW DEBT
Qualcomm is a supplier of digital wireless
communications products and services. It is
the innovator and implementer of the
proprietary code-division multiple access
(CDMA), a digital wireless technology.
CDMA generates licensing fees, royalties,
and chip sales. In addition, Qualcomm has
a new high-data-rate (HDR) technology
that it expects to transmit data at very high
speeds for Internet use and access. Its
primary U.S. competitor uses another
wireless technology called TDMA. It
competes with suppliers of alternative
wireless technologies, such as GSM used
by Pac Bell and TDMA used by AT&T.
Qualcomm employs about 7,000 people
and is headquartered in San Diego. By
March 2000, Qualcomm had redeemed all
its convertible preferred securities and had
very little long-term debt. Its capital
structure was:
Long-term debt
Nil
Market value of stock
$112 billion
Why does Qualcomm rely so little on long-
term debt? This question was asked of
Anthony S. Thornley, Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of
Qualcomm.
RWJ: One thing that stands out from a
financial point of view about
Qualcomm is that it has almost no
long-term debt. Why?
AST: There currently isn’t any reason to
leverage the company. We can finance
our growth from retained earnings and
outside equity.
RWJ: Outside equity?
AST: With our high P/E ratio we have a
very low cost of equity.
RWJ: Qualcomm is in a very competi-
tive business. Is this a factor in the
capital structure?
AST: We are conservative financially
and have relied largely on equity to
finance the company. However, we have
used debt at times when the relative cost
was lower than equity.
RWJ: Many of the assets of Qualcomm
are intangible, such as the value of its
patents and its highly skilled engineers.
Does this limit Qualcomm’s debt
capacity?
AST: Intangible assets have less collat-
eral value than bricks and mortar, but
Qualcomm’s patents throw off a steady
stream of cash flow. Qualcomm has a
great deal of debt capacity. We just
prefer flexibility at this time.
RWJ: Thanks.
What Can We Learn from Qualcomm?
First, Qualcomm is a firm with very
uncertain future outcomes in a very
competitive business and with significant
intangible assets. This would suggest
Qualcomm has a relatively low debt
capacity when compared to, say, Edison
International. Moreover, the financial
management of Qualcomm is conservative
by nature. Qualcomm’s patents generate a
steady stream of cash flow, which enhances
debt capacity, but the competitive and fast-
paced nature of the telecommunications
industry suggests a need for financial slack
and flexibility. Second, Qualcomm has
experienced a rapid growth in profit and
sales over the past five years—greater than
60 percent per annum. As a consequence,
the tax potential benefits of debt have only
recently materialized. Finally, Qualcomm’s
very high stock price and price-earnings
ratio suggest (to its financial management)
that this is an opportune time to rely more
on equity financing than debt.
A Financial Profile of Qualcomm
(April 2000)
(in $ millions except as noted)
Revenues
3,937.3
Net income
391.9
Long-term debt
—
Dividend payout (%)
0
Return on equity (ROE) (%)
13.6
Five-year compound annual 
growth in revenues
62.5%
Recent price-to-earnings ratio
40–100

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
461
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
7. Debt-to-equity ratios vary across industries. We present three factors determining the target
debt-to-equity ratio:
a. Taxes. Firms with high taxable income should rely more on debt than firms with low
taxable income.
b. Types of Assets. Firms with a high percentage of intangible assets such as research and
development should have low debt. Firms with primarily tangible assets should have
higher debt.
c. Uncertainty of Operating Income. Firms with high uncertainty of operating income
should rely mostly on equity.
KEY TERMS
Agency costs
427
Nonmarketed claims
434
Marketed claims
434
Positive covenant
431
Negative covenant
430
Protective covenants
430
SUGGESTED READINGS
An excellent collection of recent articles appears in
Chew, D. The New Corporate Finance: Where Theory Meets Practice (New York: McGraw-Hill,
1993).
Merton Miller’s Nobel lecture is reprinted as
Miller, M. “Leverage.” Journal of Finance (June 1991).
An extremely influential set of articles arguing that bankruptcy costs are low are
Haugen, R. A., and L. Senbet. “The Insignificance of Bankruptcy Costs to the Theory of
Optimal Capital Structure.” Journal of Finance (May 1978).
Haugen, R. A., and L. Senbet. “Bankruptcy and Agency Costs: Their Significance to the Theory of
Optimal Capital Structure.” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (March 1988).
The following excellent paper surveys the various capital-structure theories:
Rajan, Raghuram G., and Luigi Zingales. “What Do We Know about Capital Structure?”
Journal of Finance (December 1995).
In several recent articles, John R. Graham estimates effective corporate tax rates and their input
on corporate financing policy.
“Do Personal Taxes Affect Corporate Financing Decisions.” Journal of Public Economics 73
(1999).
“Debt and the MTR.” Journal of Financial Economics 4 (1996).
Graham, John R.; Michael Lemmon; and James Schollheirn. “Debt, Leases, Taxes and the
Endogeneity of Corporate Tax Status.” Journal of Finance 53 (1998).
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Costs of Financial Distress
16.1 Good Time Co. is a regional chain department store. It will remain in business for one
more year. The estimated probability of a boom year is 60 percent and that of a recession
is 40 percent. It is projected that Good Time will have total cash flow of $250 million in a
boom year and $100 million in a recession. Its required debt payment is $150 million per
annum. Assume a one-period model.
Assume risk neutrality and an annual discount rate of 12 percent for both the stock and
the bond.
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
455

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
462
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
456
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
a. What is the total stock value of the firm?
b. If the total value of bonds outstanding of Good Time is $108.93 million, what is the
expected bankruptcy cost in case of recession?
c. What is the total value of the firm?
d. What is the promised return on the bond?
16.2 VanSant Corporation and Matta, Inc., are identical firms except that Matta, Inc., is more
levered than VanSant. The companies’ economists agree that the probability of a recession
next year is 20 percent and the probability of a continuation of the current expansion is 80
percent. If the expansion continues, each firm will have EBIT of $2 million. If a recession
occurs, each firm will have EBIT of $0.8 million. VanSant’s debt obligation requires the
firm to make $750,000 in payments. Because Matta carries more debt, its debt payment
obligations are $1 million.
Assume that the investors in these firms are risk-neutral and that they discount the firms’
cash flows at 15 percent. Assume a one-period example. Also assume there are no taxes.
a. Duane, the president of VanSant, commented to Matta’s president, Deb, that his firm
has a higher value than Matta, Inc., because VanSant has less debt and, therefore, less
bankruptcy risk. Is Duane correct?
b. Using the data of the two firms, prove your answer to (a).
c. What might cause the firms to be valued differently?
Description of Costs
16.3 What are the direct and indirect costs of bankruptcy? Briefly explain each.
16.4 Chrysler’s financial structure in August 1983 was as follows:
Number of Units
Price per
Market
Security
Outstanding
Unit
Value
Common stock
115,000,000
$ 26.00
$2,990,000,000
Preferred stock
10,000,000
32.50
325,000,000
Warrants
14,400,000
13.50
194,400,000
Bonds
2,000,000
650.00
1,300,000,000
Due to large losses incurred during 1978–1981, Chrysler had $2 billion in tax-loss
carryforwards; therefore, the next $2 billion of income was free from corporate income
taxes. At the time, the consensus of security analysts was that Chrysler would not have
cumulative profits in excess of $2 billion over the next five years.
Most of the preferred stock was held by banks. Chrysler had agreed to retire the
preferred stock over the next few years. Chrysler had to decide whether to issue debt or
sell common equity to raise the funds needed to retire the preferred stock.
If you were Lee Iacocca, what would you have done? Why?
16.5 Fountain Corporation economists estimate that the probability of a good business
environment next year is equal to the probability of a bad environment. Knowing that, the
managers of Fountain must choose between two mutually exclusive projects. Suppose the
project that Fountain chooses will be the only business it does next year. Therefore, the
payoff of the project will determine the value of the firm. Fountain is obliged to make a
$500 payment to its bondholders. The first project is one of low risk.
Low-risk Project
Project
Value
Value of
Value of
Economy
Probability
Payoff
of Firm
Stock
Bonds
Bad
0.5
$500
$500

$
0

$500
Good
0.5
700
700

200

500
If the firm does not undertake the low-risk project, it will choose the following high-
risk project.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
463
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
457
High-risk Project
Project
Value
Value of
Value of
Economy
Probability
Payoff
of Firm
Stock
Bonds
Bad
0.5
$100
$100

$
0

$100
Good
0.5
800
800

300

500
Which project would the stockholders prefer? Why?
16.6 Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Explain your answer.
A firm’s stockholders would never want the firm to invest in projects with 
negative NPVs.
16.7 Refer to the selfish strategy in section 16.5. Suppose the bondholders are fully aware of
the discrepancy between maximizing the firm value and the stock value. To minimize the
agency costs, bondholders use a bond covenant to stipulate that when the firm takes on
high-risk projects, bondholders can demand a higher debt payment. By how much would
the bondholders need to raise the debt payment so that the stockholders would be
indifferent between the two projects? What is the corporate finance implication of this
postulated example?
Can Costs of Debt Be Reduced?
16.8 What measures do stockholders undertake to minimize the costs of debt?
Integration of Tax Effect and Financial Distress Costs
16.9 How would the consideration of financial distress costs and agency costs affect the MM
proposition in a world where corporations pay taxes?
Shirking and Perquisites: A Note on Agency Cost of Equity
16.10 What are the sources of the agency costs of equity?
Personal Taxes
16.11 Fortune Enterprises (FE) is an all-equity firm that is considering issuing $13,500,000 in
10-percent debt. The firm will use the proceeds of the bond sale to repurchase equity. FE
has a 100-percent payout policy. Because FE is a nongrowth firm, its earnings and debt
would be perpetual. FE’s income statement under each of the financial structures is
shown below.
All Equity
Debt
EBIT
$3,000,000
$3,000,000
Interest
0
1,350,000
_________
_________
EBT
3,000,000
1,650,000
Taxes (TC  0.4)
1,200,000
660,000
_________
_________
Net income
$1,800,000
$ 990,000
a. If the personal tax rate is 30 percent, which plan offers the investors the higher cash
flows? Why?
b. Which plan does the IRS prefer?
c. Suppose stockholders demand a 20-percent return after personal taxes. What is the
value of the firm under each plan?
d. Suppose TS  0.2 and TB  0.55. What are the investors’ returns under each plan?
16.12 The general expression for the value of a leveraged firm in a world in which TS  0 is
where
VL  VU  
1  1  TC
1  TB 	  B  CB

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
464
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
458
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
VU  Value of an unlevered firm
TC  Effective corporate tax rate for the firm
TB  Personal tax rate of the marginal bondholder
B  Debt level of the firm
C(B)  Present value of the costs of financial distress for the firm as a function of its
debt level. [Note: C(B) encompasses all non–tax-related effects of leverage on
the firm’s value.]
Assume all investors are risk-neutral.
a. In their no-tax model, what do Modigliani and Miller assume about TC, TB, and C(B)?
What do these assumptions imply about a firm’s optimal debt-equity ratio?
b. In their model that includes corporate taxes, what do Modigliani and Miller assume
about TC, TB, and C(B)? What do these assumptions imply about a firm’s optimal
debt-equity ratio?
c. Assume that IBM is certain to be able to use its interest deductions to reduce its
corporate tax bill. What would the change in the value of IBM be if the company
issued $1 billion in debt and used the proceeds to repurchase equity? Assume that the
personal tax rate on bond income is 20 percent, the corporate tax rate is 34 percent,
and the costs of financial distress are zero.
d. Assume that USX is virtually certain not to be able to use interest deductions. What
would the change in the value of the company be from adding $1 of perpetual debt
rather than $1 of equity? Assume that the personal tax rate on bond income is 20
percent, the corporate tax rate is 35 percent, and the costs of financial distress are zero.
e. For companies that may or may not be able to use the interest deduction, what would
the change in the value of the company be from adding $1 of perpetual debt rather
than $1 of equity? Assume that the personal tax rate on bond income is 20 percent, the
corporate tax rate is 35 percent, and the costs of financial distress are zero. Also
assume the probability of using the incremental deduction is 65 percent.
16.13 Because of the large cash inflows from the sales of its cookbook, Fear of Frying, the
Overnight Publishing Company (OPC) has decided to retire all of its outstanding debt.
The debt is made up of consul bonds; its maturity date is indefinitely far away. The debt
is also considered risk-free. It carries a 10-percent coupon rate and has a book value of $3
million. Because market rates on long-term bonds are 15 percent, the market value of the
bonds is only $2 million. All of the debt is held by one institution that will sell it back to
OPC for $2 million cash. The institution will not charge OPC any transaction costs, and
there are no tax consequences from retiring the debt. Once OPC becomes an all-equity
firm, it will remain unlevered forever.
If OPC does not return the debt, the company will use the $2 million in cash to buy
back some of its stock on the open market. Repurchasing stock also has no transaction
costs. Investors expect OPC to repurchase some stock, so they will be completely
surprised when the debt-retirement plan is announced.
The required rate of return of the equity holders after OPC becomes all equity will be
20 percent. The expected annual earnings before interest and taxes for the firm are
$1,100,000; those earnings are expected to remain constant in perpetuity. OPC has no
growth opportunities, and the company is subject to a 35-percent corporate tax rate.
Assume that TB  10% and TS  0. Also assume that bankruptcy costs do not change for
OPC as a result of this capital-structure change. How much does the market value of the
company change?
16.14 The EXES Company is assessing its present capital structure and that structure’s
implications for the welfare of its investors. EXES is currently financed entirely with
common stock, of which 1,000 shares are outstanding. Given the risk of the underlying
cash flows (EBIT) generated by EXES, investors currently require a 20-percent return
on the EXES common stock. The company pays out all earnings as dividends to
common stockholders.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
465
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
459
EXES estimates that operating income may be $1,000, $2,000, or $4,200 with
respective probabilities of 0.1, 0.4, and 0.5. Assume the firm’s expectations about
earnings will be met and that they will be unchanged in perpetuity. Also, assume that the
corporate and personal tax rates are equal to zero.
a. What is the value of EXES Company?
b. The president of EXES has decided that shareholders would be better off if the
company had equal proportions of debt and equity. He therefore proposes to issue
$7,500 of debt at an interest rate of 10 percent. He will use the proceeds to repurchase
500 shares of common stock.
i. What will the new value of the firm be?
ii. What will the value of EXES’s debt be?
iii. What will the value of EXES’s equity be?
c. Suppose the president’s proposal is implemented.
i. What is the required rate of return on equity?
ii. What is the firm’s overall required return?
d. Suppose the corporate tax rate is 40 percent.
i. Use the Modigliani-Miller framework that includes taxes to find the value of the firm.
ii. Does the presence of taxes increase or decrease the value of the firm? Why?
iii. Verbally explain how the presence of bankruptcy costs would change the effect of
taxes on the value of the firm, if at all.
e. Suppose interest income is taxed at 40 percent while the effective tax on returns to
equityholders is zero. Assume that the introduction of the personal tax rate does not
affect the required return on equity.
i. What is the value of EXES in a world with personal taxes?
ii. Under the Miller model, what will happen to the value of the firm as the tax on
interest income rises?
16.15 Mueller Brewing Company has been ordered by the EPA to stop polluting the
Menomenie River. It must now spend $100 million on pollution-control equipment. The
company has three alternatives for obtaining the needed $100 million.
1. Sell $100 million of perpetual, taxable corporate bonds with a 20-percent coupon rate.
2. Sell $100 million of perpetual pollution-control bonds with a 10-percent coupon rate.
The interest on these bonds is not taxable to investors.
3. Sell $100 million of common stock with a 9.5-percent current dividend yield.
Mueller Brewing Company is in the 35-percent tax bracket.
The president of Mueller Brewing wants to sell the common stock because it has the
lowest rate. Mr. Daniels, the company’s treasurer, suggests bond financing because of the
tax shield offered by the debt. His analysis shows that the value of the firm would
increase rBBTC/rB  ($100 million)  (0.35)  $35 million if Mueller issues bonds
instead of equity. A newly hired financial analyst, Ms. Harris, argues that it does not
matter which type of bond is issued. She claims that the yields will be bid up to reflect
taxes and, thus, the financing choice will not matter.
a. Comment on the analyses of the president, Mr. Daniels, and Ms. Harris.
b. Should Mueller be indifferent about which financing plan it chooses? If not, rank the
three alternatives and give the benefits and costs of each.
16.16 Melvin Clark, CFO of the Matsushita Corp., is evaluating the value of the firm’s current
capital structure. Being conservative, he expects that Matsushita will have a perpetual
EBIT of $800,000, with an after-tax discount rate of 10 percent if it is all-equity financed.
Currently, the firm has $1.2 million debt. The corporate tax rate is 35 percent. The
uniform personal tax rate in the economy is 15 percent. Personal tax rates on equity
income are effectively zero because of the possibility of infinite deferral of the realization
of capital gains. The combined financial distress and agency costs associated with the
debt are approximately 5 percent of the total debt value.
a. What is the added value of the debt?
b. What is the firm value of Matsushita?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
466
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
460
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
Integrative Questions
16.17 The Gulf Power Company is an electric utility planning to build a new power-generating
plant of conventional design. The company has traditionally paid out all earnings to the
stockholders as dividends and financed capital expenditures with new issues of common
stock. There is no debt or preferred stock presently outstanding. Data on the company and
the new power plant follow. Assume all earnings streams are perpetuities that are constant.
Company Data
Current annual earnings: $27 million
Number of outstanding shares: 10 million
New Power Plant
Initial outlay: $20 million
Added annual earnings: $3 million
Management estimates the rate of return currently required by stockholders to be 10
percent per year and considers the power plant to have the same risk as existing assets.
Assume there are no taxes, no costs of bankruptcy, and perfect capital markets.
a. What will be the total market value of Gulf Power if common stock is issued to
finance the plant?
b. What will be the total value (stocks plus bonds) of the firm if $20 million in bonds at
an interest rate of 8 percent is issued to finance the plant, assuming the bonds are
perpetuities?
c. Given that bonds will be issued as in (b), calculate the rate of return required by
stockholders after the financing has occurred and the plant has been built.
16.18 The management of New England Textile Corporation (NETC) has decided to relocate
the firm to North Carolina after four more years of operating its factory in Cotton Mather,
Massachusetts. Because of transportation costs and a nonexistent secondary market for
used textile machines, all of NETC’s machines will be worthless after four years.
Mr. Rayon, plant engineer, recommends that a Spool Pfitzer machine be purchased.
His analysis of the only two available models shows that:
Heavy-Duty
Light-Weight
Model
Model
Annual savings in costs
$340
$316
Economic life
4 years
2 years
Price of machine
$1,000
$500
NETC’s accountant, Mr. Wool, must decide on two actions.
a. Purchase the Heavy-Duty Spool Pfitzer now, or
b. Purchase one Light-Weight Spool Pfitzer now and replace it after two years with a
second Light-Weight Spool Pfitzer.
The manufacturer of the Spool Pfitzers is willing to guarantee that the prices he charges
to NETC won’t change during the next four years. The annual cost savings are known
with certainty because of NETC’s backlog of orders to supply the Slobovian Army and
because of NETC’s long-term contracts with its workers and suppliers. Only straight-line
depreciation over their economic life is allowed for Spool Pfitzer machines. NETC’s tax
rate is 34 percent.
Mr. Wool, being a sophisticated USC MBA, obtained the following information for
his analysis of various investment and financial proposals:
Expected
Covariance with
Asset
Value
Variance
Market Return
Risk-free asset
0.10
Market portfolio
0.20
0.04
0.04
NETC common stock
0.048

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
467
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
461
As a matter of company policy, NETC has never borrowed in the past; it is 100 percent
equity financed. The market value of NETC common stock is $10 million.
a. What is the cost of capital for NETC?
b. Which of the two Spool Pfitzers should NETC purchase? If Spool Pfitzers are a bad
investment, show why.
c. Assuming that the Heavy-Duty Spool Pfitzer will be purchased, what is the minimum
annual savings in costs necessary for the Heavy-Duty Spool Pfitzer to be an
acceptable investment?
d. Mr. Wool has long believed that NETC’s capital structure is not optimal; however, he was
afraid to suggest changing the company’s traditional all-equity financing policy. He
believes in the Miller-Modigliani analysis and thinks that by selling $2 million of 10
percent perpetual bonds (no maturity) at par (“par”  “face” or “principal” amount) and
using the proceeds to repurchase NETC stock, the total value of the firm would increase. 
If Mr. Wool is correct and if his financial plan is adopted, what would be the new:
i. Total value of the firm
ii. Total value of NETC stock
iii. Weighted average cost of capital for NETC
e. Ms. Nylon says that Mr. Wool is mistaken. Because NETC is a high-risk firm in a
declining industry, it would have to pay a 20 percent interest rate on its bonds, and the
“increase in the value of the firm would be much less.” Mr. Rayon says that a 20
percent interest rate “would mean that the value of the firm would increase more than
Mr. Wool expects because of a larger tax shield.” Mr. Orlon, chairman of the board of
NETC, says that Wool, Nylon, and Rayon are all wrong and that the total value of the
firm would remain at $10 million “because bond investors are risk-averse too!”
Discuss the arguments given by Wool, Rayon, Nylon, and Orlon.
f. Suppose that, because of the new debt, there are new costs associated with possible
financial distress. These costs can be expressed as 2 percent of the new firm value.
Does this new information change the analysis?
g. Mr. Buck, loan officer at the First Cotton Mather National Bank (FCMNB), received
an application for a 20-year $2 million loan from NETC. FCMNB is one of the few
banks in the United States that make long-term loans. Although NETC is a well-
known and respected local firm, Mr. Buck is worried about whether he should
approve the loan. Does he have any reason to examine this loan application more
carefully than (for example) one from Cotton Mather Electric Utility Company? What
(if any) are the risks of making the loan to NETC?
Appendix 16A SOME USEFUL FORMULAS OF
FINANCIAL STRUCTURE
Definitions
E(EBIT)  A perpetual expectation of cash operating income before interest and
taxes
VU  Value of an unlevered firm
VL  Value of levered firm
B  Present value of debt
S  Present value of equity
rS  Cost of equity
rB  Cost of debt capital
r0  Cost of capital to an all-equity firm. In a world of no corporate taxes, the
weighted average cost of capital to a levered firm, rWACC, is also equal to
r0. However, with corporate taxes, r0 is above rWACC for a levered firm. 

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
468
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
462
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
Model I (No Tax)
rS  r0  (r0  rB)  B/S
Model II (Corporate Tax, TC  0; No Personal Taxes, TS  TB  0)
rS  r0  (1  TC)  (r0  rB)  B/S
Model III (Corporate Tax, TC  0; Personal Tax, TB  0; TS  0)
Appendix 16B THE MILLER MODEL AND THE GRADUATED
INCOME TAX
In our previous discussion, we assumed a flat personal income tax on interest income. In
other words, we assumed that all individuals are subject to the same personal tax rate on in-
terest income. Merton Miller derived the results of the previous section in a classic paper.40
However, the genius of his paper was to consider the implications of personal taxes when
tax rates differ across individuals.
This graduated income tax is consistent with the real world. For example, individuals
are currently taxed at rates of 0, 15, 28, 31, 36, and 39.6 percent in the United States, de-
pending on income. In addition, other entities, such as corporate pension funds, individual
retirement accounts (IRAs), and universities, are tax-exempt.
To illustrate Miller’s model with graduated taxes, we consider a world where all firms
initially only issue equity. We assume that TC  35% and TS  0.41 The required return on
stock, rS, is 10 percent. In addition, we posit a graduated personal income tax, where tax
rates vary between 0 and 50 percent. All individuals are risk-neutral.
Now consider a courageous firm contemplating a $1,000 issue of debt. What is the in-
terest rate that the firm can pay and still be as well off as if it issued equity? Because debt
is tax deductible, the after–corporate tax cost of debt is (1  TC)  rB. However, equity is
not deductible at the corporate level, so the after-tax cost of equity is rS. Thus, the firm is
indifferent to whether it issues debt or equity when
(1  TC)  rB  rS
(16.3)
Because TC  35% and rS  10%, the firm could afford to pay a rate on debt as high as
15.38 percent.
Miller argues that those in the lowest tax brackets (tax-exempt in our example) will buy
the debt because they pay the least personal tax on interest. These tax-exempt investors will
be indifferent to whether they buy the stock or purchase bonds also yielding 10 percent.
VL  VU  1  1  TC  1  TS
1  TB
	  B
VL  EEBIT  1  TC
r0
 TCrBB
rB
 VU  TCB
VL  VU  EEBIT
r0
40M. Miller, “Debt and Taxes,” Journal of Finance (May 1977). Yes, this is the same Miller of MM.
41The assumption that TS  0 is perhaps an extreme one. However, it is commonly made in the literature,
justified by the investor’s ability to defer realization of capital gains indefinitely. Besides, the same qualitative
conclusions hold if TS  0, though the explanation would be more involved.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
469
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
463
Thus, if this firm is the only one issuing debt, it can pay an interest rate well below its break-
even rate of 15.38 percent.
Noticing the gain to the first firm, many other firms are likely to issue debt. However,
if there are only a fixed number of tax-exempt investors, new debt issues must attract
people in higher brackets. Because these individuals are taxed on interest at a higher rate
than they are taxed on equity distributions, they will only buy debt if its yield is greater
than 10 percent. For example, an individual in the 15-percent bracket has an interest rate
after personal tax of rB  (1  0.15). He will be indifferent to whether he buys bonds or
stock if rB  11.765%, because 0.11765  0.85  10%. Because 11.765 percent is less
than the 15.38 percent rate of equation (16.3), corporations gain by issuing debt to in-
vestors in the 15-percent bracket.
Now consider investors in the 35-percent bracket. A return on bonds of 15.38 per-
cent provides them with a 10%  15.38%  (1  0.35) interest rate after personal tax.
Thus, they are indifferent to whether they earn a 15.38-percent return on bonds or a 10-
percent return on stock. Miller argues that, in equilibrium, corporations will issue
enough debt so that investors with personal tax brackets up to and including 35 percent
will hold debt.42 Additional debt will not be issued because the interest rate needed to
attract investors in higher tax brackets is above the 15.38-percent rate that corporations
can afford to pay.
The beauty of competition is that other companies can so capitalize on someone’s in-
novation that all value to the courageous first entrant is eliminated. According to the Miller
model, firms will issue enough debt so that individuals up to and including the 35-percent
bracket hold it. In order to induce these investors to hold bonds, the competitive interest rate
becomes 15.38 percent. No firm profits from issuing debt in equilibrium. Rather, all firms
are indifferent to whether they issue debt or equity in equilibrium.
Miller’s work produces three results:
1. In aggregate, the corporate sector will issue just enough debt so that individuals with tax
brackets equal to and below the corporate tax rate, TC, will hold debt, and individuals
with higher tax brackets will not hold debt. Thus, individuals in these higher brackets
will hold stock.
2. Because people in tax brackets equal to the corporate rate hold debt, there is no gain or
loss to corporate leverage. Therefore, the capital-structure decision is a matter of indif-
ference to an individual firm. Though the Miller model is quite sophisticated, this con-
clusion is identical to that reached by MM in a world without any taxes.
3. As given in equation (16.3), the return on bonds will be higher than the return on stocks
of comparable risk. (An adjustment to (16.3) must be made to reflect the greater risk of
stocks in the real world.)
EXAMPLE
Consider an economy in which there are four groups of investors and no others:
Marginal Tax Rate (%)
Personal Wealth
Group
on Bonds (TB)
(in $ millions)
Finance majors
50%
$1,200
Accounting majors
35
300
Marketing majors
20
150
Management majors
0
50
42All investors with TB 
 35 percent hold bonds. Because investors with TB  35 percent are indifferent to
whether they hold stocks or bonds, only some of them are likely to choose bonds.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
470
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
464
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
We assume that investors are risk-neutral and that equity income is untaxed at the per-
sonal level for all investors (i.e., TS  0). All investors can earn a tax-free return of
5.4 percent by investing in foreign real estate; therefore, this is the return on equity.
The corporate tax rate is 35 percent. Interest payments are tax deductible at the cor-
porate level and taxable at the individual level. Corporations receive a total of $120
million in cash flow before tax and interest. There are no growth opportunities, and
every year is the same in perpetuity. What is the range of possible debt-equity ratios?
The return on equity, rS, will be set equal to the return on foreign real estate,
which is 0.054. In a Miller equilibrium, rS  (1  TC)  rB. Therefore,
Given the tax brackets of the different groups of investors, we would expect that
finance majors would hold equity and foreign real estate,and accounting majors would
be indifferent to whether they held equity or debt. Marketing and management majors
would hold bonds because their personal tax rates are below 0.35. Because accounting
majors are indifferent to whether they hold bonds or stocks, we must learn what hap-
pens if they invest in bonds or equity. If accounting majors use their $300 to buy bonds,
B  $300  $150  $50  $500. Then the following calculations can be made.
 $944
If accounting majors buy stocks and foreign real estate (B  $150  $50  $200),
 $1,244
B  $200
VL  S  B  $1,244  $200  $1,444
Thus, depending on the amount of bonds held by accounting majors, the debt-
equity ratio in the economy can lie in the range of 0.161 to 0.530.
B
S  $200
$1,244  0.161
S  EBIT  rBB  1  TC
rS
 $120  0.0831  $200  1  0.35
0.054
B
S  $500
$944  0.530
VL  S  B  $944  $500  $1,444
B  rBB
rB
 $500
S  EBIT  rBB  1  TC
rS
 $120  0.0831  $500  1  0.35
0.054
rB 
0.054
1  0.35  0.0831

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
471
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
465
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
The Miller Model and the Graduated Income Tax
16.19 Consider an economy with three investor groups with marginal personal tax rate of 10
percent, 20 percent, and 40 percent, respectively. The corporate tax rate is 35 percent.
Assume zero personal tax rate on equity income. The required rate of return on all-equity
financed projects is 11 percent.
a. What is the prevailing equilibrium interest rate?
b. What is the investment pattern for each of the three investor groups?
c. If Quantex Corp. has an EBIT of $1 million in perpetuity, what is its firm value? 
Does the firm value vary with different capital structure choices?
16.20 Assume that there are three groups of investors with the following tax rates and
investable funds:
Investable Funds
Group
(in $ millions)
Tax Rate (percent)
A
375
50
B
220
32.5
C
105
10
Each group requires a minimum after-tax return of 8.1 percent on any security. The only
types of securities available are common stock and perpetual corporate bonds. Income
from corporate bonds is subject to a personal tax, but it is deductible for corporate tax
purposes. Capital gains from common stock are untaxed at the personal level. In
equilibrium, common stock yields an 8.1 percent pretax return; foreign real estate also
earns this rate. All funds not invested in stocks or bonds will be invested in foreign real
estate. Assume the common stock and the bonds are both risk-free.
Corporate earnings before interest and taxes total $85 million each year in
perpetuity. The corporate tax rate is 35 percent.
a. What is the equilibrium market rate of interest on corporate bonds, rB?
b. In equilibrium, what is the composition of each of the groups’ portfolios?
c. What is the total market value of all companies?
d. What is the total tax bill?
16.21 Consider an economy in which there are four groups of people:
Marginal Tax
Wealth
Group
Rate (percent)
(in $ millions)
L
50
700
M
40
300
N
20
200
O
0
500
All investors can earn a tax-free return of 6 percent by investing in foreign real estate.
Interest payments are taxable at the individual level, but equity income is untaxed at the
personal level for all investors.
Corporations receive pretax cash flows of interest totaling $150 million. Interest
payments are tax deductible at the corporate level. There are no depreciation deductions.
Firms have no growth opportunities, and their plants are everlasting. The corporate tax
rate is 40 percent.
a. What is the range of possible aggregate debt-equity ratios in the economy?
b. What would your answer to (a) be if the corporate tax rate is 30 percent?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
472
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
466
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
APPENDIX 16C
CASE STUDY
The Decision to Use More Debt: The Case of Goodyear Tire and Rubber43
W
hat actually happens when a particular firm abruptly decides to use more debt? We look at
the experience of Goodyear Tire and Rubber to try to answer this question. Goodyear’s in-
creased reliance on debt illustrates many of the important points of this chapter.
Goodyear Tire and Rubber is a well-known manufacturer of rubber products. Automotive
products account for about 60 percent of its sales. By 1986 Goodyear Tire and Rubber had become
the world’s largest manufacturer of tires.Goodyear had worked hard to obtain a reputation for out-
standing quality in “high performance” tires.Although Goodyear was the world’s leader in making
tires, it had encountered difficulties when it tried to diversify into oil and gas and to build an oil
pipeline from Texas to California.
In December 1986, Goodyear Tire and Rubber started a cash tender offer for 40 million of its
shares at $50 per share.This represented a 50 percent premium over its share price two months ear-
lier. The stock market’s reaction was to substantially increase Goodyear’s stock price. Why did
Goodyear buy back almost one half of its outstanding stock? One reason was the threat of a takeover.
Several weeks earlier, the company had reached an agreement with a group headed by feared raider
Sir James Goldsmith to acquire his stake in Goodyear for $49.50 per share.The purpose of Goodyear’s
acquisition of its own stock was to buy out the Goldsmith group’s position and to make Goodyear
more “shark repellent” for other raiders.The buyout was financed with new debt and with cash from
sales of major assets.The result was to significantly increase Goodyear’s reliance on debt.
Goodyear’s type of financial restructuring is often called a levered recapitalization. Recapitiliza-
tion is an imprecise term that refers to changes on the right-hand side of a firm’s balance sheet.When
the effect is to increase a firm’s reliance on debt, it is called a levered recapitalization, and usually it
involves repurchasing stock and new borrowing.The net effect of Goodyear’s recapitalization on its
balance sheet was to increase its long-term debt-to-equity ratio from 28.4 percent in 1985 to 150.2
percent in 1988 (see the following table).
GOODYEAR TIRE AND RUBBER
(in $ millions)
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
Long-term debt
$997.5
$2,487.5
$3,282.4
$3,044.8
$2,963.4
$3,286.4
Equity
$3,507.4
$3,002.6
$1,834.4
$2,027.1
$2,143.8
$2,097.9
Shares outstanding
216.2
194.2
114.0
114.9
115.6
117.0
Return on equity (ROE)
8.6%
9.2%
24.0%
17.7%
13.8%
negative
Was Goodyear’s levered recapitalization a good decision? There are benefits and costs from any
levered recapitalization. Clues can be gleaned from the stock market.The stock market’s reaction to
Goodyear’s levered recapitalization was very positive. On the day Goodyear’s levered recapitaliza-
tion was announced, Goodyear’s stock jumped by over 20 percent.
Benefits
1. Tax Benefits. It is well known that new debt can increase a firm’s value by reducing its taxes.There
is no doubt that Goodyear’s tax burden has been substantially reduced due to increased reliance
on debt. Goodyear’s interest expense increased from $101 million in 1985 to $282 million in
1987, and Goodyear’s taxable income was reduced.
43Alan Shapiro writes about the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company in “Corporate Stockholders and Corporate
Responsibility,” USC Business (Summer 1991). See also “Goodyear Tire and Rubber: 1988,” Harvard Business
School Case 284-177, for a description of Goodyear Tire and Rubber’s restructuring and the aftermath. An upbeat
article on Goodyear’s current prospects appears in “Gault on Fixing Goodyear’s Flat,” Fortune, July 15, 1991.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
16. Capital Structure: Limits 
to the Use of Debt
473
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
2. Lower Agency Costs. It is often argued that leverage reduces the agency costs arising between man-
agement and shareholders. Therefore, the new debt from the levered recapitalization can be
thought of as a type of a control device for the shareholders of Goodyear.In 1982 Goodyear had
embarked on a diversification program by acquiring Celeron, an oil and gas company.The acqui-
sition of Celeron was followed by several other diversification attempts. Most importantly,
Goodyear decided to construct a crude oil pipeline from Texas to California. Shareholders did
not react favorably to Goodyear’s diversification program,and its stock price fell 65 percent (rel-
ative to the S&P 500 Index) over the three and one-half years after 1982. It can be argued that
this is a classic case of management pursuing selfish shortsighted goals at the expense of share-
holders. Goodyear’s diversification program imposed agency costs on its shareholders.
Goodyear’s levered recapitalization probably prevented it from further diversification because
Goodyear was forced to sell most of its non-tire assets to service its new debt. It sold Celeron
Oil in December 1987.By borrowing an amount equal to the present value of Goodyear’s excess
cash flow that could be used to acquire other firms,Goodyear’s management has been effectively
prevented from further diversification.
Costs
1. Financial Distress.When firms such as Goodyear increase their reliance on debt,they also increase the
likelihood of financial distress. Financial distress can be formal bankruptcy. So far, Goodyear has not
filed for bankruptcy.However,financial distress may occur without bankruptcy. After the levered re-
capitalization, Goodyear’s debt was downgraded by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s.This may be ev-
idence of financial distress.Goodyear lost money in 1990 and its ROE was negative.More importantly,
financial distress means doing particularly harmful things such as the selfish strategies that we talked
about previously.Goodyear has said that it has been forced to cut down on planned research and de-
velopment and capital spending because of its reliance on debt.Its level of capital spending decreased
from about $1.5 billion in 1986 to $754 million in 1988.This may be evidence of financial distress. If
so,this is one of the costs imposed upon Goodyear because of its levered recapitalization.
2. Financial Slack.The new debt has increased Goodyear’s leverage well beyond traditional industry
norms. Up to 1985 Goodyear had relied on little debt, leading some industry analysts in 1985 to
contend that Goodyear had excess debt capacity (i.e., financial slack). However, the excess cash
flows that supported Goodyear’s borrowing in 1986 and 1987 disappeared in 1988. By the end
of 1988 Goodyear had used up all of its financial slack. Loss of financial slack can preclude strate-
gic options if competitors increase capital spending or lower prices. Many analysts believe this is
what happened when in 1989 Bridgestone, Goodyear’s main competitor, announced its intention
to increase its capital spending in the North American tire market. Goodyear could not counter
by increasing its own level of capital spending.The only way Goodyear could do so would have
been by issuing new equity. But firms do not like to issue new equity because it is very expensive
and it is the lowest financing option on the pecking order.
Part of Goodyear’s decision to use more debt can be analyzed in terms of a trade-off between
the tax benefits of debt and the costs of financial distress.However,the Goodyear experience shows
that agency costs and financial slack are also factors in a firm’s decision to use debt.
Postscript
Goodyear almost went broke in 1990–1991 and was forced to cut its dividend for the first time since
the 1930s.In 1991 it hired a new CEO,Stanley Gault,who was hailed as CEO of the year in 1992 (by
Financial World). In 1997 Goodyear’s ROE was close to 20 percent and its long-term debt reduced to
about $1 billion. Capital spending remained very low at about $620 million. Its oil pipeline was prof-
itable for the first time in 1994. (But, in 1997 Goodyear finally found a buyer for its pipeline.) Today
Goodyear is still the world’s largest rubber manufacturer.Its market capitalization is about $3 billion
and it has increased its dividend payout from 20¢ in 1991 to $1.20 in 1999. Its ROE is 10%.
Chapter 16
Capital Structure: Limits to the Use of Debt
467

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
474
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Valuation and Capital
Budgeting for the 
Levered Firm
CHAPTER 17
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I
nstructors often structure the basic course in corporate finance around the two sides of the
balance sheet. The left-hand side of the balance sheet contains assets. Chapters 4, 5, 6, 7, and
8 of this textbook treat the capital-budgeting decision, which is a decision concerning the as-
sets of the firm. Chapters 9, 10, 11, and 12 treat the discount rate for a project, so those chapters
also concern the left-hand side of the balance sheet. The right-hand side of the balance sheet con-
tains liabilities and owner’s equity. Chapters 13,14,15,and 16 of this textbook examine the debt-
versus-equity decision, which is a decision about the right-hand side of the balance sheet.
While the preceding chapters of this textbook have, for the most part, treated the capital-
budgeting decision separately from the capital-structure decision, the two decisions are actu-
ally related. As we will see, a project of an all-equity firm might be rejected, while the same
project might be accepted for a levered but otherwise identical firm. This occurs because the
cost of capital frequently decreases with leverage, thereby turning some negative NPV proj-
ects into positive NPV projects.
Chapters 4 through 8 implicitly assumed that the firm is financed with only equity. The
goal of this chapter is to value a project, or the firm itself, when leverage is employed. We
point out that there are three standard approaches to valuation under leverage: the adjusted-
present-value (APV) method, the flow-to-equity (FTE) method, and the weighted-average-
cost-of-capital (WACC) method. These three approaches may seem, at first glance, to be
quite different. However, we show that, if applied correctly, all three approaches provide
the same value estimate.
The three methods discussed next can be used to value either the firm as a whole or a
project. The example below discusses project value, though everything we say applies to an
entire firm as well.
17.1 ADJUSTED-PRESENT-VALUE APPROACH
The adjusted-present-value (APV) method is best described by the following formula:
APV  NPV  NPVF
In words, the value of a project to a levered firm (APV) is equal to the value of the project
to an unlevered firm (NPV) plus the net present value of the financing side effects (NPVF).
One can generally think of four side effects:
1. The Tax Subsidy to Debt. This was discussed in Chapter 15, where we pointed out that,
for perpetual debt, the value of the tax subsidy is TCB. (TC is the corporate tax rate, and
B is the value of the debt. ) The material on valuation under corporate taxes in Chapter
15 is actually an application of the APV approach.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
475
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
2. The Costs of Issuing New Securities. As we will discuss in detail in Chapter 20, invest-
ment bankers participate in the public issuance of corporate debt. These bankers must
be compensated for their time and effort, a cost that lowers the value of the project.
3. The Costs of Financial Distress. The possibility of financial distress, and bankruptcy in
particular, arises with debt financing. As stated in the previous chapter, financial distress
imposes costs, thereby lowering value.
4. Subsidies to Debt Financing. The interest on debt issued by state and local governments
is not taxable to the investor. Because of this, the yield on tax-exempt debt is generally
substantially below the yield on taxable debt. Frequently, corporations are able to obtain
financing from a municipality at the tax-exempt rate because the municipality can bor-
row at that rate as well. As with any subsidy, this subsidy adds value.
While each of the preceding four side effects is important, the tax deduction to debt al-
most certainly has the highest dollar value in practice. For this reason, the following exam-
ple considers the tax subsidy, but not the other three side effects.1
Consider a project of the P. B. Singer Co. with the following characteristics:
Cash inflows: $500,000 per year for the indefinite future
Cash costs: 72% of sales
Initial investment: $475,000
TC  34%
r0  20%, where r0 is the cost of capital for a project of an all-equity firm.
If both the project and the firm are financed with only equity, the project’s cash flow is
Cash inflows
$500,000
Cash costs
360,000
________
Operating income
140,000
Corporate tax (.34 tax rate)
47,600
________
Unlevered cash flow (UCF)
$92,400
The distinction in Chapter 4 between present value and net present value is important
for this example. As pointed out in Chapter 4, the present value of a project is determined
before the initial investment at date 0 is subtracted. The initial investment is subtracted for
the calculation of net present value.
Given a discount rate of 20 percent, the present value of the project is
The net present value (NPV) of the project, that is, the value of the project to an all-equity
firm, is
$462,000  $475,000  $13,000
Since the NPV is negative, the project would be rejected by an all-equity firm.
Now imagine that the firm finances the project with exactly $126,229.50 in debt, so
that the remaining investment of $348,770.50 ($475,000  $126,229.50) is financed with
equity. The net present value of the project under leverage, which we call the adjusted pres-
ent value, or the APV, is
APV  NPV  TC  B
$29,918  $13,000  0.34  $126,229.50
$92,400
0.20
 $462,000
Chapter 17
Valuation and Capital Budgeting for the Levered Firm
469
1The Bicksler Enterprises example of Section 17.6 handles both flotation costs and interest subsidies.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
476
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
That is, the value of the project when financed with some leverage is equal to the value of
the project when financed with all equity plus the tax shield from the debt. Since this num-
ber is positive, the project should be accepted.
You may be wondering why we chose such a precise amount of debt. Actually, we
chose it so that the ratio of debt to the present value of the project under leverage is 0.25.2
In this example, debt is a fixed proportion of the present value of the project, not a fixed
proportion of the initial investment of $475,000. This is consistent with the goal of a target
debt-to-market-value ratio, which we find in the real world. For example, commercial banks
typically lend to real estate developers a fixed percentage of the market value of a project,
not a fixed percentage of the initial investment.
• How is the APV method applied?
• What additional information beyond NPV does one need to calculate APV?
17.2 FLOW-TO-EQUITY APPROACH
The flow-to-equity (FTE) approach is an alternative capital-budgeting approach. The for-
mula simply calls for discounting the cash flow from the project to the equityholders of the
levered firm at the cost of equity capital, rS. For a perpetuity, this becomes
There are three steps to the FTE approach.
Step 1: Calculating Levered Cash Flow (LCF)3
Assuming an interest rate of 10 percent, the perpetual cash flow to equityholders in our ex-
ample is
Cash inflows
$500,000.00
Cash costs
360,000.00
Interest (10%  $126,229.50)
12,622.95
__________
Income after interest
127,377.05
Corporate tax (.34 tax rate)
43,308.20
__________
Levered cash flow (LCF)
$ 84,068.85
Cash flow from project to equityholders of the levered firm
rS
470
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
2That is, the present value of the project after the initial investment has been made is $504,918 ($29,918 
$475,000). Thus, the debt-to-value ratio of the project is 0.25 ($126,229.50/$504,918).
This level of debt can be calculated directly. Note that
Present value of levered project  Present value of unlevered project  TC  B
VWith debt  $462,000
 0.34  .25  VWith debt
Rearranging the last line, we have
VWith debt(1  0.34  0.25)  $462,000
VWith debt  $504,918
Since debt is 0.25 of value, debt is $126,229.50 (0.25  $504,918).
3We use the term levered cash flow (LCF) for simplicity. A more complete term would be cash flow from the
project to the equityholders of a levered firm. Similarly, a more complete term for unlevered cash flow (UCF)
would be cash flow from the project to the equityholders of an unlevered firm.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
477
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Alternatively, one can calculate levered cash flow (LCF) directly from unlevered cash
flow (UCF). The key here is that the difference between the cash flow that equityholders re-
ceive in an unlevered firm and the cash flow that equityholders receive in a levered firm is
the after-tax interest payment. (Repayment of principal does not appear in this example,
since the debt is perpetual.) One writes this algebraically as
UCF  LCF  (1  TC)rBB
The term on the right-hand side of this expression is the after-tax interest payment. Thus, since
cash flow to the unlevered equityholders (UCF) is $92,400 and the after-tax interest payment
is $8,331.15 [(.66).10  $126,229.50], cash flow to the levered equityholders (LCF) is
$92,400  $8,331.15  $84,068.85
which is exactly the number we calculated earlier.
Step 2: Calculating rS
The next step is to calculate the discount rate, rS. Note that we assumed that the discount
rate on unlevered equity, r0, is .20. As we saw in Chapter 15, the formula for rS is
Note that our target debt-to-value ratio of 1/4 implies a target debt-to-equity ratio of 1/3.
Applying the preceding formula to this example, we have
Step 3: Valuation
The present value of the project’s LCF is
Since the initial investment is $475,000 and $126,299.50 is borrowed, the firm must ad-
vance the project $348,770.50 ($475,000  $126,229.50) out of its own cash reserves. The
net present value of the project is simply the difference between the present value of the
project’s LCF and the investment not borrowed. Thus, the NPV is
$378,688.50  $348,770.50  $29,918
which is identical to the result found with the APV approach.
• How is the FTE method applied?
• What information is needed to calculate FTE?
17.3 WEIGHTED-AVERAGE-COST-OF-CAPITAL METHOD
Finally, one can value a project using the weighted-average-cost-of-capital (WACC)
method. While this method was discussed in Chapters 12 and 15, it is worthwhile to re-
view it here. The WACC approach begins with the insight that projects of levered firms are
LCF
rS
 $84,068.85
.222
 $378,688.50
rS  .222  .20  1
3 .66 .20  .10
rS  r0  B
S 1  TC r0  rB
Chapter 17
Valuation and Capital Budgeting for the Levered Firm
471
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
478
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
simultaneously financed with both debt and equity. The cost of capital is a weighted av-
erage of the cost of debt and the cost of equity. As seen in Chapters 12 and 15, the cost
of equity is rS. Ignoring taxes, the cost of debt is simply the borrowing rate, rB. How-
ever, with corporate taxes, the appropriate cost of debt is (1  TC)rB, the after-tax cost
of debt.
The formula for determining the weighted average cost of capital, rWACC, is
The weight for equity,
, and the weight for debt,
, are target ratios. Target 
ratios are generally expressed in terms of market values, not accounting values. (Recall that
another phrase for accounting value is book value.)
The formula calls for discounting the unlevered cash flow of the project (UCF) at the
weighted average cost of capital, rWACC. The net present value of the project can be written
algebraically as
Initial investment
If the project is a perpetuity, the net present value is
Initial investment
We previously stated that the target debt-to-value ratio of our project is 1/4 and the cor-
porate tax rate is .34, implying that the weighted average cost of capital is
Note that rWACC, 0.183, is lower than the cost of equity capital for an all-equity firm, 0.20.
This must always be the case, since debt financing provides a tax subsidy that lowers the
average cost of capital.
We previously determined the UCF of the project to be $92,400, implying that the pres-
ent value of the project is
Since this initial investment is $475,000, the NPV of the project is
$504,918  $475,000  $29,918
In this example, all three approaches yield the same value.
• How is the WACC method applied?
$92,400
0.183
 $504,918
rWACC   3
4  0.222  1
4  0.100.66  0.183
UCF
rWACC


 
	
t1
UCFt
1  rWACC t 
B
S  B
S
S  B
rWACC 
S
S  B rS 
B
S  B rB1  TC
472
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
479
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
17.4 A COMPARISON OF THE APV, FTE, 
AND WACC APPROACHES
Capital-budgeting techniques in the early chapters of this text applied to all-equity firms.
Capital budgeting for the levered firm could not be handled early in the book because the
effects of debt on firm value were deferred until the previous two chapters. We learned there
that debt increases firm value through tax benefits but decreases value through bankruptcy
and related costs.
In this chapter we provide three approaches to capital budgeting for the levered firm.
The adjusted-present-value (APV) approach first values the project on an all-equity ba-
sis. That is, the project’s after-tax cash flows under all-equity financing (called unlevered
cash flows, or UCF) are placed in the numerator of the capital-budgeting equation. The
discount rate, assuming all-equity financing, appears in the denominator. At this point,
the calculation is identical to that performed in the early chapters of this book. We then
add the net present value of the debt. We point out that the net present value of the debt
is likely to be the sum of four parameters: tax effects, flotation costs, bankruptcy costs,
and interest subsidies.
The flow-to-equity (FTE) approach discounts the after-tax cash flow from a project go-
ing to the equityholders of a levered firm (LCF). LCF, which stands for levered cash flow,
is the residual to equityholders after interest has been deducted. The discount rate is rS, the
cost of capital to the equityholders of a levered firm. For a firm with leverage, rS must be
greater than r0, the cost of capital for an unlevered firm. This follows from our material in
Chapter 15 showing that leverage raises the risk to the equityholders.
The last approach is the weighted-average-cost-of-capital (WACC) method. This tech-
nique calculates the project’s after-tax cash flows assuming all-equity financing (UCF). The
UCF is placed in the numerator of the capital-budgeting equation. The denominator, rWACC,
is a weighted average of the cost of equity capital and the cost of debt capital. The tax ad-
vantage of debt is reflected in the denominator because the cost of debt capital is determined
net of corporate tax. The numerator does not reflect debt at all.
All three approaches perform the same task: valuation in the presence of debt financ-
ing. And, as illustrated by the previous example, all three provide the same valuation esti-
mate. However, as we saw before, the approaches are markedly different in technique.
Because of this, students often ask questions of the following sort: “How can this be? How
can the three approaches look so different and yet give the same answer?” We believe that
the best way to handle questions like these is through the following two points.
1. APV versus WACC. Of the three approaches, APV and WACC display the greatest
similarity. After all, both approaches put the unlevered cash flow (UCF) in the nu-
merator. However, the APV approach discounts these flows at r0, yielding the value
of the unlevered project. Adding the present value of the tax shield gives the value of
the project under leverage. The WACC approach discounts UCF at rWACC, which is
lower than r0.
Thus, both approaches adjust the basic NPV formula for unlevered firms in order to
reflect the tax benefit of leverage. The APV approach makes this adjustment directly. It
simply adds in the present value of the tax shield as a separate term. The WACC ap-
proach makes the adjustment in a more subtle way. Here, the discount rate is lowered be-
low r0. Although we do not provide a proof in the textbook, it can be shown that these
two adjustments always have the same quantitative effect.
Chapter 17
Valuation and Capital Budgeting for the Levered Firm
473

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
480
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
2. Entity Being Valued. The FTE approach appears at first glance to be far different from
the other two. For both the APV and the WACC approaches, the initial investment is
subtracted out in the final step ($475,000 in our example). However, for the FTE ap-
proach, only the firm’s contribution to the initial investment ($348,770.50  $475,000
 $126,229.50) is subtracted out. This occurs because under the FTE approach, only
the future cash flows to the levered equityholders (LCF) are valued. By contrast, fu-
ture cash flows to the unlevered equityholders (UCF) are valued in both the APV and
WACC approaches. Thus, since LCFs are net of interest payments, whereas UCFs are
not, the initial investment under the FTE approach is correspondingly reduced by debt
financing. In this way, the FTE approach produces the same answer that the other two
approaches do.
A Suggested Guideline
The net present value of our project is exactly the same under each of the three methods. In
theory, this should always be the case.4 However, one method usually provides an easier com-
putation than another, and, in many cases, one or more of the methods are virtually impossi-
ble computationally. We first consider when it is best to use the WACC and FTE approaches.
If the risk of a project stays constant throughout its life, it is plausible to assume that
r0 remains constant throughout the project’s life. This assumption of constant risk appears
to be reasonable for most real-world projects. In addition, if the debt-to-value ratio remains
constant over the life of the project, both rS and rWACC will remain constant as well. Under
this latter assumption, either the FTE or the WACC approach is easy to apply. However, if
the debt-to-value ratio varies from year to year, both rS and rWACC vary from year to year as
well. Using the FTE or the WACC approach when the denominator changes every year is
computationally quite complex, and when computations become complex, the error rate
rises. Thus, both the FTE and WACC approaches present difficulties when the debt-to-value
ratio changes over time.
The APV approach is based on the level of debt in each future period. Consequently,
when the debt level can be specified precisely for future periods, the APV approach is quite
easy to use. However, when the debt level is uncertain, the APV approach becomes more
problematic. For example, when the debt-to-value ratio is constant, the debt level varies
with the value of the project. Since the value of the project in a future year cannot be eas-
ily forecast, the level of debt cannot be easily forecast either.
Thus, we suggest the following guideline:
Use WACC or FTE if the firm’s target debt-to-value ratio applies to the project over its life.
Use APV if the project’s level of debt is known over the life of the project.
There are a number of situations where the APV approach is preferred. For example,
in a leveraged buyout (LBO) the firm begins with a large amount of debt but rapidly pays
down the debt over a number of years. Since the schedule of debt reduction in the future is
known when the LBO is arranged, tax shields in every future year can be easily forecast.
Thus, the APV approach is easy to use here. (An illustration of the APV approach applied
to LBOs is provided in the appendix to this chapter.) By contrast, the WACC and FTE ap-
proaches are virtually impossible to apply here, since the debt-to-equity value cannot be ex-
pected to be constant over time. In addition, situations involving interest subsidies and flota-
tion costs are much easier to handle with the APV approach. (The Bicksler Enterprises
474
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
4See I. Inselbag and H. Kaufold, “Two DCF Approaches for Valuing Companies under Alternative Financial
Strategies (and How to Choose Between Them)” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance (Spring 1997).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
481
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
example in Section 17.6 applies the APV approach to subsidies and flotation costs.) Finally,
the APV approach handles the lease-versus-buy decision much more easily than does either
the FTE or the WACC approach. (A full treatment of the lease-versus-buy decision appears
in Chapter 24.)
The preceding examples are special cases. Typical capital budgeting situations are
more amenable to either the WACC or the FTE approach than to the APV approach.
Financial managers generally think in terms of target debt-value ratios. If a project does
better than expected, both its value and its debt capacity will likely rise. The manager will
increase debt correspondingly here. Conversely, the manager would be likely to reduce debt
if the value of the project were to decline unexpectedly. Of course, because financing is a
time-consuming task, the ratio cannot be adjusted on a day-to-day or a month-to-month ba-
sis. Rather, the adjustment can be expected to occur over the long run. As mentioned be-
fore, the WACC and FTE approaches are more appropriate than is the APV approach when
a firm focuses on a target debt-value ratio.
Chapter 17
Valuation and Capital Budgeting for the Levered Firm
475
THE THREE METHODS OF CAPITAL
BUDGETING WITH LEVERAGE
1. Adjusted-Present-Value (APV) Method
 Additional effects of debt  Initial investment
UCFt  The project’s cash flow at date t to the equityholders of an unlevered firm
r0  Cost of capital for project in an unlevered firm
2. Flow-to-Equity (FTE) Method
(Initial investment  Amount borrowed)
LCFt  The project’s cash flow at date t to the equityholders of a levered firm
rS  Cost of equity capital with leverage
3. Weighted-Average-Cost-of-Capital (WACC) Method
Initial investment
rWACC  Weighted average cost of capital
Notes:
1. The middle term in the APV formula implies that the value of a project with leverage is
greater than the value of the project without leverage. Since rWACC 
 r0, the WACC
formula implies that the value of a project with leverage is greater than the value of
the project without leverage.
2. In the FTE method, cash flow after interest (LCF) is used. Initial investment is reduced
by amount borrowed as well.
Guidelines:
1. Use WACC or FTE if the firm’s target debt-to-value ratio applies to the project over
its life.
2. Use APV if the project’s level of debt is known over the life of the project.

	
t1
UCFt
1  rWACC t 

	
t1
LCFt
1  rS t 

	
t1
UCFt
1  r0 t

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
482
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Because of this, we recommend that the WACC and the FTE approaches, rather than
the APV approach, be used in most real-world situations. In addition, frequent discussions
with business executives have convinced us that the WACC is the most widely used method
in the real world, by far. Thus, practitioners seem to agree with us that, outside of the spe-
cial situations mentioned above, the APV approach is a less important method of capital
budgeting.
• What is the main difference between APV and WACC?
• What is the main difference between the FTE approach and the other two approaches?
• When should the APV method be used?
• When should the FTE and WACC approaches be used?
17.5 CAPITAL BUDGETING WHEN THE DISCOUNT RATE
MUST BE ESTIMATED
The previous sections of this chapter introduced APV, FTE, and WACC—the three basic
approaches to valuing a levered firm. However, one important detail remains. The example
in Sections 17.1 through 17.3 assumed a discount rate. We now want to show how this rate
is determined for real-world firms with leverage, with an application to the three preceding
approaches. The example in this section brings together the work in Chapters 9–12 on the
discount rate for unlevered firms with that in Chapter 15 on the effect of leverage on the
cost of capital.
EXAMPLE
World-Wide Enterprises (WWE) is a large conglomerate thinking of entering the
widget business, where it plans to finance projects with a debt-to-value ratio of
25 percent (or, alternatively, a debt-to-equity ratio of 1/3). There is currently one
firm in the widget industry, American Widgets (AW). This firm is financed with
40-percent debt and 60-percent equity. The beta of AW’s equity is 1.5. AW has a
borrowing rate of 12 percent, and WWE expects to borrow for its widget venture
at 10 percent. The corporate tax rate for both firms is 0.40, the market-risk pre-
mium is 8.5 percent, and the riskless interest rate is 8 percent. What is the appro-
priate discount rate for WWE to use for its widget venture?
As shown in Sections 17.1–17.3, a corporation may use one of three capital
budgeting approaches: APV, FTE, or WACC. The appropriate discount rates for
these three approaches are r0, rS, and rWACC, respectively. Since AW is WWE’s
only competitor in widgets, we look at AW’s cost of capital to calculate r0, rS, and
rWACC for WWE’s widget venture. The four-step procedure below will allow us to
calculate all three discount rates.
1. Determining AW’s Cost of Equity Capital. First, we determine AW’s cost of eq-
uity capital, using the security market line (SML) of Chapter 10:
AW’s Cost of Equity Capital:
rS  RF    (
M  RF)
20.75%  8%  1.5  8.5%
where M is the expected return on the market portfolio and RF is the risk-free rate.
R
R
476
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
483
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
2. Determining AW’s Hypothetical All-Equity Cost of Capital. We must standard-
ize the preceding number in some way, since AW and WWE’s widget venture
have different target debt-to-value ratios. The easiest approach is to calculate the
hypothetical cost of equity capital for AW, assuming all-equity financing. This
can be determined from MM’s Proposition II under taxes (see Chapter 15):
AW’s Cost of Capital if All-Equity:
In the examples of Chapter 15, the unknown in this equation was rS.
However, for this example, the unknown is r0. By solving the equation, one
finds that r0  0.1825. Of course, r0 is less than rS because the cost of equity
capital would be less when the firm employs no leverage.
At this point, firms in the real world generally make the assumption that
the business risk of their venture is about equal to the business risk of the firms
already in the business. Applying this assumption to our problem, we assert that
the hypothetical discount rate of WWE’s widget venture if all-equity financed
is also 0.1825.5 This discount rate would be employed if WWE uses the APV
approach, since the APV approach calls for r0, the project’s cost of capital in a
firm with no leverage.
3. Determining rS for WWE’s Widget Venture. Alternatively, WWE might use the
FTE approach, where the discount rate for levered equity is determined from:
Cost of Equity Capital for WWE’s Widget Venture:
Note that the cost of equity capital for WWE’s widget venture, 0.199, is
less than the cost of equity capital for AW, 0.2075. This occurs because AW has
a higher debt-to-equity ratio. (As mentioned above, both firms are assumed to
have the same business risk.)
4. Determining rWACC for WWE’s Widget Venture. Finally, WWE might use the
WACC approach. The appropriate calculation here is
rWACC for WWE’s Widget Venture:
16.425%  1
4 10%0.60  3
4 19.9%
rWACC 
B
S  BrB1  TC 
S
S  BrS
19.9%  18.25%  1
3 0.60 18.25%  10%
rS  r0  B
S 1  TC r0  rB
20.75%  r0  0.4
0.60.60 r0  12%
rS  r0  B
S 1  TC r0  rB
Chapter 17
Valuation and Capital Budgeting for the Levered Firm
477
5Alternatively, a firm might assume that its venture would be somewhat riskier since it is a new entrant. Thus,
the firm might select a discount rate slightly higher than 0.1825. Of course, no exact formula exists for adjusting
the discount rate upwards.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
484
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The preceding example shows how the three discount rates, r0, rS, and rWACC, are
determined in the real world. These are the appropriate rates for the APV, FTE, and
WACC approaches, respectively. Note that rS for American Widgets is determined first,
because the cost of equity capital can be determined from the beta of the firm’s stock.
As discussed in Chapter 12, beta can easily be estimated for any publicly traded firm,
such as AW.
17.6 APV EXAMPLE
As mentioned earlier in this chapter, firms generally set a target debt-to-equity ratio, al-
lowing the use of WACC and FTE for capital budgeting. APV does not work as well here.
However, as we also mentioned earlier, APV is the preferred approach when there are side
benefits and side costs to debt. Because the analysis here can be tricky, we now devote an
entire section to an example where, in addition to the tax subsidy to debt, both flotation
costs and interest subsidies come into play.
EXAMPLE
Bicksler Enterprises is considering a $10 million project that will last five years,
implying straight-line depreciation per year of $2 million. The cash revenues less
cash expenses per year are $3,500,000. The corporate tax bracket is 34 percent.
The risk-free rate is 10 percent, and the cost of unlevered equity is 20 percent.
The cash flow projections each year are
C0
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
Initial outlay
$10,000,000
Depreciation tax shield
0.34  $2,000,000
$ 680,000
$ 680,000
$ 680,000
$ 680,000
 $680,000
Revenue less expenses
(1–0.34)  $3,500,000
$2,310,000
$2,310,000
$2,310,000
$2,310,000
 $2,310,000
We stated before that the APV of a project is the sum of its all-equity value plus
the additional effects of debt. We examine each in turn.
All-Equity Value
Assuming the project is financed with all equity, the value of the project is
Initial cost
Depreciation tax shield
Present value of (Cash revenues  Cash expenses)
This calculation uses the techniques presented in the early chapters of this
book. Notice that the depreciation tax shield is discounted at the riskless rate of 10
percent. The revenues and expenses are discounted at the higher rate of 20 percent.
$2,310,000
0.20
 1  
1
1.20
5	    $513,951
 $10,000,000  $680,000
0.10
 1  
1
1.10
5	 
478
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
485
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
An all-equity firm would clearly reject this project, because the NPV is
$513,951. And equity-flotation costs (not mentioned in the example) would only
make the NPV more negative. However, debt financing may add enough value to
the project to justify acceptance. We consider the effects of debt next.
Additional Effects of Debt
Bicksler Enterprises can obtain a five-year, nonamortizing loan for $7,500,000 after
flotation costs at the risk-free rate of 10 percent. Flotation costs are fees paid when
stock or debt is issued. These fees may go to printers, lawyers, and investment
bankers, among others. Bicksler Enterprises is informed that flotation costs will be
1 percent of the gross proceeds of its loan. The previous chapter indicates that debt
financing alters the NPV of a typical project. We look at the effects of debt next.
Flotation Costs
Given that flotation costs are 1 percent of the gross proceeds,
we have
$7,500,000  (1  0.01)  Gross proceeds  0.99  Gross proceeds
Thus, the gross proceeds are
This implies flotation costs of $75,758 (1%  $7,575,758). To check the calcula-
tion, note that net proceeds are $7,500,000 ($7,575,758  $75,758). In other
words, Bicksler Enterprises receives only $7,500,000. The flotation costs of
$75,758 are received by intermediaries, e.g., investment bankers.
Flotation costs are paid immediately but are deducted from taxes by amortizing
on a straight-line basis over the life of the loan. The cash flows from flotation costs are
Date 0
Date 1
Date 2
Date 3
Date 4
Date 5
Flotation costs
$75,758
Deduction
$15,152 
$15,152
$15,152
$15,152
$15,152
Tax shield from
0.34  $15,152
flotation costs
 $5,152
$5,152
$5,152
$5,152
$5,152
The relevant cash flows from flotation costs are in boldface. When discounting at
10 percent, the tax shield has a net present value of
$5,152  A5
0.10  $19,530
This implies a net cost of flotation of
$75,758  $19,530  $56,228
The net present value of the project after the flotation costs of debt but before the
benefits of debt is
$513,951  $56,228  $570,179
Tax Subsidy
Interest must be paid on the gross proceeds of the loan, even
though intermediaries receive the flotation costs. Since the gross proceeds of
the loan are $7,575,578, annual interest is $757,576 ($7,575,758  0.10). The
$75,758
5
$7,500,000
1  0.01  $7,500,000
0.99
 $7,575,758
Chapter 17
Valuation and Capital Budgeting for the Levered Firm
479

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
486
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
interest cost after taxes is $500,000 [$757,576  (1  0.34)]. Because the loan
is nonamortizing, the entire debt of $7,575,758 is repaid at date 5. These terms
are indicated below:
Date 0
Date 1
Date 2
Date 3
Date 4
Date 5
Loan (gross
$7,575,758
proceeds)
Interest paid
10%  $7,575,758
$757,576
$757,576
$757,576
$ 757,576
 $757,576
Interest cost
(1  0.34)  $757,576
$500,000
$500,000
$500,000
$ 500,000
after taxes
 $500,000
Repayment of debt
$7,575,758
The relevant cash flows are listed in boldface in the above table. They are (1) loan
received, (2) annual interest cost after taxes, and (3) repayment of debt. Note that
we include the gross proceeds of the loan as an inflow, since the flotation costs
have previously been subtracted.
In Chapter 15 we mentioned that the financing decision can be evaluated in
terms of net present value. The net present value of the loan is simply the net pres-
ent value of each of the three cash flows. This can be represented as
Present value
Present value
NPV(Loan)   Amount 
of after-tax

of loan
(17.1)
borrowed
interest payments
repayments
The calculations for this example are
(17.1′)
The NPV(Loan) is positive, reflecting the interest tax shield.6
The adjusted present value of the project with this financing is
APV  All-equity value  Flotation costs of debt  NPV(Loan)
(17.2)
$406,236 
$513,951

$56,228
 $976,415
(17.2′)
Though we previously saw that an all-equity firm would reject the project, a firm
would accept the project if a $7,500,000 (net) loan could be obtained.
Because the loan discussed above was at the market rate of 10 percent, we
have considered only two of the three additional effects of debt (flotation costs and
tax subsidy) so far. We now examine another loan where the third effect arises.
Non–Market-Rate Financing
A number of companies are fortunate enough to
obtain subsidized financing from a governmental authority. Suppose that the project
of Bicksler Enterprises is deemed socially beneficial and the state of New Jersey
$976,415   $7,575,758  $500,000
0.10
 1  
1
1.10
5	  $7,575,758
1.10 5
480
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
6The NPV (Loan) must be zero in a no-tax world, because interest provides no tax shield there. To check this
intuition, we calculate
No-tax case: 0  $7,575,758  $757,576
0.10
 1  
1
1.10
5	  $7,575,758
1.10 5

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
487
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
grants the firm a $7,500,000 loan at 8-percent interest. In addition, all flotation costs
are absorbed by the state. Clearly, the company will choose this loan over the one
we previously calculated. The cash flows from the loan are
Date 0
Date 1
Date 2
Date 3
Date 4
Date 5
Loan received
$7,500,000
Interest paid
8%  $7,500,000
$600,000
$600,000
$600,000
$
600,000
 $600,000
After-tax interest
(1  0.34)  $600,000
$396,000
$396,000
$396,000
$
396,000
 $396,000
Repayment of debt
$ 7,500,000
The relevant cash flows are listed in boldface in the preceding table. Using
equation (17.1), the NPV(Loan) is
$1,341,939  $7,500,000 
(17.1″)
Why do we discount the cash flows in equation (17.1″) at 10 percent when the
firm is borrowing at 8 percent? We discount at 10 percent because that is the fair
or marketwide rate. That is, 10 percent is the rate at which one could borrow with-
out benefit of subsidization. The net present value of the subsidized loan is larger
than the net present value of the earlier loan because the firm is now borrowing at
the below-market rate of 8 percent. Note that the NPV(Loan) calculation in equa-
tion (17.1″) captures both the tax effect and the non–market-rate effect.
The net present value of the project with subsidized debt financing is
APV  All-equity value  Flotation costs of debt  NPV(Loan)
(17.2)
$827,988 
$513,951

0
$1,341,939
(17.2″)
The preceding example illustrates the adjusted-present-value (APV) approach. The ap-
proach begins with the present value of a project for the all-equity firm. Next, the effects of
debt are added in. The approach has much to recommend it. It is intuitively appealing be-
cause individual components are calculated separately and added together in a simple way.
And, if the debt from the project can be specified precisely, the present value of the debt
can be calculated precisely.
17.7 BETA AND LEVERAGE
Chapter 12 provides the formula for the relationship between the beta of the common stock
and leverage of the firm in a world without taxes. We reproduce this formula here:
The No-Tax Case:
Equity  Asset
(17.3)
As pointed out in Chapter 12, this relationship holds under the assumption that the beta of
debt is zero.
1  Debt
Equity
$396,000
0.10
 1  
1
1.10
5	  $7,500,000
1.10 5
Chapter 17
Valuation and Capital Budgeting for the Levered Firm
481

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
488
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Since firms must pay corporate taxes in practice, it is worthwhile to provide the rela-
tionship in a world with corporate taxes. It can be shown that the relationship between the
beta of the unlevered firm and the beta of the levered equity is7
The Corporate-Tax Case:
Equity 
Unlevered firm
(17.4)
when (1) the corporation is taxed at the rate of TC and (2) the debt has a zero beta.
Because [1  (1  TC)debt/equity] must be more than 1 for a levered firm, it follows
that Unlevered firm 
 Equity. The corporate-tax case of equation (17.4) is quite similar to the
no-tax case of equation (17.3), because the beta of levered equity must be greater than the
beta of the unlevered firm in either case. The intuition that leverage increases the risk of eq-
uity applies in both cases.
However, notice that the two equations are not equal. It can be shown that leverage in-
creases the equity beta less rapidly under corporate taxes. This occurs because, under taxes,
leverage creates a riskless tax shield, thereby lowering the risk of the entire firm.
1  1  TCDebt
Equity 
482
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
7This result holds only if the beta of debt equals zero. To see this, note that
VU  TCB  VL  B  S
(a)
where
VU  Value of unlevered firm
VL  Value of levered firm
B  Value of debt in a levered firm
S  Value of equity in a levered firm
As we stated in the text, the beta of the levered firm is a weighted average of the debt beta and the equity beta:
where B and S are the betas of the debt and the equity of the levered firm, respectively. Because VL  B  S,
we have
(b)
The beta of the levered firm can also be expressed as a weighted average of the beta of the unlevered firm
and the beta of the tax shield:
where U is the beta of the unlevered firm. This follows from equation (a). Because VL  VU  TCB, we have
(c)
We can equate (b) and (c) because both represent the beta of a levered firm. Equation (a) tells us that VU 
S  (1  TC)  B. Under the assumption that B  0, equating (b) and (c) and using equation (a) yields
equation (17.4).
The generalized formula for the levered beta (where B is not zero) is:
and
U 
S
B1  TC  S S 
B1  TC
B1  TC  S B
S  U  1  TC U  BB
S
VU
VL
 U  TC B
VL
 B
VU
VU  TC B  U 
TC B
VU  TC B  B
B
VL
 B  S
VL
 S
B
B  S  B 
S
B  S  S

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
489
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
C. F. Lee Incorporated is considering a scale-enhancing project. The market
value of the firm’s debt is $100 million, and the market value of the firm’s eq-
uity is $200 million. The debt is considered riskless. The corporate tax rate is
34 percent. Regression analysis indicates that the beta of the firm’s equity is 2.
The risk-free rate is 10 percent, and the expected market premium is 8.5 per-
cent. What would the project’s discount rate be in the hypothetical case that 
C. F. Lee, Inc., is all-equity?
We can answer this question in two steps.
1. Determining Beta of Hypothetical All-Equity Firm. Rearranging equation (17.4), we
have
Unlevered Beta:
(17.5)
2. Determining Discount Rate. We calculate the discount rate from the security market line
(SML) as
Discount Rate:
rS 
RF  
 [
M  RF]
22.75%  10%  1.50  8.5%
The Project Is Not Scale-Enhancing
Because the above example assumed that the project is scale-enhancing, we began with the
beta of the firm’s equity. If the project is not scale-enhancing, one could begin with the eq-
uity betas of firms in the industry of the project. For each firm, the hypothetical beta of the
unlevered equity could be calculated by equation (17.5). The SML could then be used to
determine the project’s discount rate from the average of these betas.
EXAMPLE
The J. Lowes Corporation, which currently manufactures staples, is considering a
$1 million investment in a project in the aircraft adhesives industry. The corpora-
tion estimates unlevered after-tax cash flows (UCF) of $300,000 per year into per-
petuity from the project. The firm will finance the project with a debt-to-value ra-
tio of 0.5 (or, equivalently, a debt-to-equity ratio of 1:1).
The three competitors in this new industry are currently unlevered, with betas
of 1.2, 1.3, and 1.4. Assuming a risk-free rate of 5 percent, a market-risk premium
of 9 percent, and a corporate tax rate of 34 percent, what is the net present value of
the project?
We can answer this question in five steps.
R
$200 million
$200 million  1  0.34  $100 million  2  1.50
Equity
Equity  1  TC  Debt  Equity  Unlevered firm
Chapter 17
Valuation and Capital Budgeting for the Levered Firm
483

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
490
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
1. Calculating the Average Unlevered Beta in the Industry. The average un-
levered beta across all three existing competitors in the aircraft adhesives
industry is
2. Calculating the Levered Beta for J. Lowes’s New Project. Assuming the
same unlevered beta for this new project as for the existing competitors,
we have, from equation (17.4),
Levered Beta:
3. Calculating the Cost of Levered Equity for the New Project. We calculate
the discount rate from the security market line (SML) as
Discount Rate:
rS  RF    [
M  RF]
0.244  0.05  2.16  0.09
4. Calculating the WACC for the New Project. The formula for determining
the weighted average cost of capital, rWACC, is
5. Determining the Project’s Value. Because the cash flows are perpetual, the
NPV of the project is
Initial investment
$1 million  $1.16 million
17.8 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Earlier chapters of this text showed how to calculate net present value for projects of all-
equity firms. We pointed out in the last two chapters that the introduction of taxes and
bankruptcy costs changes a firm’s financing decisions. Rational corporations should employ
some debt in a world of this type. Because of the benefits and costs associated with debt, the
$300,000
0.139

Unlevered cash flows UCF
rWACC

0.139  1
2  0.05  0.66  1
2  0.244
rWACC  B
VrB1  TC  S
V rS
R
2.16  1  0.66  1
1
  1.3
Equity  1  1  TCDebt
Equity
Unlevered firm
1.2  1.3  1.4
3
 1.3
484
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
491
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
capital-budgeting decision is different for levered firms than for unlevered firms. The present
chapter has discussed three methods for capital budgeting by levered firms: the adjusted-
present-value (APV), flows-to-equity (FTE), and weighted-average-cost-of-capital (WACC)
approaches.
1. The APV formula can be written as
Additional effects of debt  Initial investment
There are four additional effects of debt:
• Tax shield from debt financing
• Flotation costs
• Bankruptcy costs
• Benefit of non–market-rate financing
2. The FTE formula can be written as
(Initial investment  Amount borrowed)
3. The WACC formula can be written as
Initial investment
4. Corporations frequently follow the guideline:
Use WACC or FTE if the firm’s target debt-to-value ratio applies to the project over its life.
Use APV if the project’s level of debt is known over the life of the project.
5. The APV method is used frequently for special situations like interest subsidies, LBOs,
and leases. The WACC and FTE methods are commonly used for more typical capital-
budgeting situations. The APV approach is a rather unimportant method for typical
capital-budgeting situations.
6. The beta of the equity of the firm is positively related to the leverage of the firm.
KEY TERMS
Adjusted present value (APV)
468
Weighted average cost of capital
471
Flow to equity (FTE)
470
SUGGESTED READINGS
The following article contains a superb discussion of some of the subtleties of using WACC for
project valuation:
Miles, J., and R. Ezzel. “The Weighted Average Cost of Capital, Perfect Capital Markets and
Project Life: A Clarification.” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 15
(September 1980).
The following article presents the practical aspects of the APV approach:
T. A. Luehrman. “Using APV: A Better Tool for Valuing Operations.” Harvard Business Review
(May/June 1997).
A fascinating article on the merits of the APV and WACC approaches is:
Inselbag, I., and H. Kaufold. “Two DCF Approaches in Valuing Companies under Alternative
Financing Strategies (and How to Choose between Them).” Journal of Applied Corporate
Finance (Summer 1997).

 
	
t1
UCFt
1  rWACC t 

 
	
t1
LCFt
1  rS t 

	
t1
UCFt
1  r0 t 
Chapter 17
Valuation and Capital Budgeting for the Levered Firm
485

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
492
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Adjusted-Present-Value Approach
17.1 Honda and GM are competing to sell a fleet of cars to Hertz. Hertz’s policies on its rental
cars include use of straight-line depreciation and disposing of the cars after five years.
Hertz expects that the autos will have no salvage value. The firm expects a fleet of 25 cars
to generate $100,000 per year in pretax income. Hertz is in the 34-percent tax bracket, and
the firm’s overall required return is 10 percent. The addition of the new fleet will not add
to the risk of the firm. Treasury bills are priced to yield 6 percent.
a. What is the maximum price that Hertz should be willing to pay for the fleet of cars?
b. Suppose the price of the fleet (in U.S. dollars) is $325,000; both suppliers are charging
this price. Hertz is able to issue $200,000 in debt to finance the project. The bonds can
be issued at par and will carry an 8-percent interest rate. Hertz will incur no costs to
issue the debt and no costs of financial distress. What is the APV of this project if Hertz
uses debt to finance the auto purchase?
c. To entice Hertz to buy the cars from Honda, the Japanese government is willing to lend
Hertz $200,000 at 5 percent. Now what is the maximum price that Hertz is willing to
pay Honda for the fleet of cars?
17.2 Peatco, Inc., is considering a $2.1 million project that will be depreciated according to the
straight-line method over the three-year life of the project. The project will generate pretax
earnings of $900,000 per year, and it will not change the risk level of the firm. Peatco can
obtain a three-year, 12.5-percent loan to finance the project; the bank will charge Peatco
flotation fees of 1 percent of the gross proceeds of the loan. The fee must be paid up front,
not from the loan proceeds. If Peatco financed the project with all equity, its cost of capital
would be 18 percent. The tax rate is 30 percent, and the risk-free rate is 6 percent.
a. Using the APV method, determine whether or not Peatco should undertake the project.
b. After hearing that Peatco would not be initiating the project in their town, the city
council voted to subsidize Peatco’s loan. Under the city’s proposal, Peatco will pay the
same flotation costs, but the rate on the loan will be 10 percent. Should Peatco accept
the city’s offer and begin the project?
17.3 MEO Foods, Inc., has made cat food for over 20 years. The company currently has a debt-
equity ratio of 25 percent, borrows at a 10-percent interest rate, and is in the 40-percent tax
bracket. Its shareholders require an 18-percent return.
MEO is planning to expand cat food production capacity. The equipment to be
purchased would last three years and generate the following unlevered cash flows (UCF):
Unlevered Cash Flows by Year (in $ millions)
0
1
2
3
4
15
5
8
10
0
MEO has also arranged a $6 million debt issue to partially finance the expansion.
Under the loan, the company would pay 10 percent annually on the outstanding balance.
The firm would also make year-end principal payments of $2 million per year, completely
retiring the issue at the end of the third year.
Ignoring costs of financial distress and issue costs, should MEO proceed with the
expansion plan?
17.4 Roller and Decker Corp. has established a joint venture with Malaysia Road Construction
Company to build a toll road in Malaysia. The initial investment in paving equipment is
$20 million. Straight-line depreciation will be used, and the equipment has an economic
life of five years with no salvage value. The annual construction costs are estimated to be
$10 million. The project will be finished in two years. Net toll revenue collected from the
usage of the road is projected to be $6 million per annum for 20 years starting from the
end of the first year of usage. The local preferential corporate tax rate for joint ventures is
486
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
493
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
25 percent. There are no other taxes. The required rate of return for the project under all-
equity financing is 12 percent. The prevailing market interest rate is 9 percent a year. To
encourage foreign capital participation in the infrastructure sector, the Malaysian
government will subsidize the project with $10 million of a 15-year, long-term loan, at an
interest rate of 5 percent a year. What is the NPV of this project?
Flow-to-Equity Approach
17.5 Milano Pizza Club owns a chain of three identical restaurants popular for their Milan style
pizza. Comparable stores have an equity value of $900,000 and debt-to-equity ratio of 30
percent. The prevailing market interest rate is 9.5 percent. An equivalent all-equity-
financed store would have a discount rate of 15 percent. For each Milano store, the
estimated annual sales are $1,000,000, costs of goods sold $400,000, and general and
administrative costs $300,000. (Every cash flow stream is assumed to be a perpetuity.) The
marginal tax rate is 40 percent. What is the value of the Milano Pizza Club?
Weighted-Average-Cost-of-Capital Approach
17.6 The overall firm beta for Wild Widgets, Inc., (WWI) is 0.9. WWI has a target debt-equity
ratio of 1/2. The expected return on the market is 16 percent, and Treasury bills are
currently selling to yield 8 percent. WWI one-year bonds that carry a 7-percent coupon are
selling for $972.72. The corporate tax rate is 34 percent.
a. What is WWI’s cost of equity?
b. What is WWI’s cost of debt?
c. What is WWI’s weighted average cost of capital?
17.7 Value Company has compiled the following information on its financing costs:
Type of
Book
Market
Before-Tax
Financing
Value
Value
Cost
Long-term debt
$ 5,000,000
$ 2,000,000
10%
Short-term debt
5,000,000
5,000,000
8
Common stock
10,000,000
13,000,000
15
__________
__________
Total
$20,000,000
$20,000,000
Value is in the 34-percent tax bracket and has a target debt-equity ratio of 100 percent. Value’s
managers would like to keep the market values of short-term and long-term debt equal.
a. Calculate the weighted average cost of capital for Value Company using
i. Book-value weights
ii. Market-value weights
iii. Target weights
b. Explain the differences between the WACCs. What are the correct weights to use in the
WACC calculation?
17.8 Baber Corporation’s stock returns have a covariance with the market of 0.031. The standard
deviation of the market returns is 0.16, and the historical market premium is 8.5 percent.
Baber bonds carry a 13-percent coupon rate and are priced to yield 11 percent. The market
value of the bonds is $24 million. Baber stock, of which 4 million shares are outstanding,
sells for $15 per share. Baber’s CFO considers the firm’s current debt-equity ratio optimal.
The tax rate is 34 percent, and the Treasury bill rate is 7 percent.
Baber Corp. must decide whether to purchase additional capital equipment. The cost
of the equipment is $27.5 million. The expected cash flows from the new equipment are
$9 million a year for five years. Purchasing the equipment will not change the risk level of
Baber Corp. Should Baber purchase the equipment?
17.9 National Electric Company (NEC) is considering a $20 million modernization expansion
project in the power systems division. Tom Edison, the company’s chief financial officer,
has evaluated the project; he determined that the project’s after-tax cash flows will be $8
million, in perpetuity. In addition, Mr. Edison has devised two possibilities for raising the
necessary $20 million:
Chapter 17
Valuation and Capital Budgeting for the Levered Firm
487

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
494
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
• Issue 10-year, 10-percent debt.
• Issue common stock.
NEC’s cost of debt is 10 percent, and its cost of equity is 20 percent. The firm’s target debt-
equity ratio is 200 percent. The expansion project has the same risk as the existing business,
and it will support the same amount of debt. NEC is in the 34-percent tax bracket.
Mr. Edison has advised the firm to undertake the expansion. He suggests they use
debt to finance the project because it is cheaper and its issuance costs are lower.
a. Should NEC accept the project? Support your answer with the appropriate calculations.
b. Do you agree with Mr. Edison’s opinion of the expense of the debt? Why or why not?
17.10 Refer to question 17.8.
Baber Corporation has chosen to purchase the additional equipment. If Baber funds
the project entirely with debt, what is the firm’s weighted average cost of capital? Explain
your answer.
A Comparison of the APV, FTE, and WACC Approaches
17.11 ABC, Inc., is an unlevered firm with expected perpetual annual before-tax cash flows of
$30 million and required return on equity of 18 percent. It has 1 million shares
outstanding. ABC is paying tax at a marginal rate of 34 percent. The firm is planning a
recapitalization under which it will issue $50 million of perpetual debt bearing a 10-
percent interest rate and use the proceeds to buy back shares. Calculate the post-recap
share price, earnings per share, and required return on equity.
17.12 Kinedyne, Inc., has decided to divest one of its divisions. The assets of the group have the
same operating risk characteristics as those of the parent firm. The capital structure for the
parent has been stable at 40-percent debt/60-percent equity (in market-value terms), the
level determined to be optimal given the firm’s assets. The required return on Kinedyne’s
assets is 16 percent, and the firm (and the division) borrows at a rate of 10 percent.
Sales revenue for the division is expected to remain stable indefinitely at last year’s
level of $19,740,000. Variable costs amount to 60 percent of sales. Annual depreciation of
$1.8 million is exactly matched each year by new investment in the division’s equipment.
The division would be taxed at the parent’s current rate of 40 percent.
a. How much is the division worth in unleveraged form?
b. If the division had the same capital structure as the parent firm, how much would it
be worth?
c. At this optimal capital structure, what return will the equityholders of the division require?
d. Show that the market value of the equity of the division would be justified by the
earnings to shareholders and the required return on equity.
17.13 Folgers Air Transport (FAT) is currently an unleveraged firm. It is considering a capital
restructuring to allow $500 in debt. The company expects to generate $151.52 in cash
flows before interest and taxes, in perpetuity. Its cost of debt capital is 10 percent and the
corporate tax rate is 34 percent. Unleveraged firms in the same industry have a cost of
equity capital of 20 percent.
Using WACC, APV, and FTE, what will be the new value of FAT?
Capital Budgeting for Projects That Are Not Scale-Enhancing
17.14 Schwartz & Brothers Inc. is in the process of deciding whether to make an equity
investment in a project of holiday gifts production and sales. Arron Buffet is in charge of
the feasibility study of the project. To better assess the risk of the project, he used the
average of 10 other firms in the holiday gift industry with similar operational scales as
the benchmark. The figures that he has are as follows:
Project
Benchmark
Debt-equity ratio
35%
30%

?
1.5
rB
10%
10%
488
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
495
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The expected market return is 17 percent, and the risk-free interest rate is 9 percent.
Corporate tax rate is 40 percent. The initial investment in the project is estimated at
$325,000, and the cash flow at the end of the first year is $55,000. Annual cash flow will
grow at a constant rate of 5 percent till the end of the fifth year and remain constant
forever thereafter. Should Schwartz & Brothers invest in this project (assume that the
bond beta is zero)?
APV Example
17.15 Brenda Lynch, CFO of Hunter Enterprises, is evaluating a 10-year, 9-percent loan. The
projected net proceeds after flotation costs to be raised by the loan are $4,250,000. The
flotation costs are estimated to be 1.25 percent of the gross proceeds and will be
amortized using a straight-line schedule over the life of the loan. The cost of similar debt
is 9.4 percent. The applicable corporate tax is 40 percent. Suppose that the loan will not
increase the financial distress cost of the firm. What is the net present value of this loan?
Beta and Leverage
17.16 North Pole Fishing Equipment Corp. and South Pole Fishing Equipment Corp. would
have identical  of 1.2 if both of them were all-equity financed. The capital structures of
the two firms are as follows:
North Pole Fishing
South Pole Fishing
Equipment Corp.
Equipment Corp.
Debt
$1,000,000
$1,500,000
Equity
1,500,000
1,000,000
The expected market rate of return is 12.75 percent, and the three-month Treasury bill
rate is 4.25 percent. Corporate tax rate is 35 percent (assume that bond beta is zero).
a. What are the s of the two firms, respectively?
b. What are the required rates of return on the two firms’ equity?
c. Try to give an intuitive explanation of the different s and the returns on equity
obtained in parts (a) and (b).
APPENDIX 17A THE ADJUSTED-PRESENT-VALUE APPROACH
TO VALUING LEVERAGED BUYOUTS8
Introduction
A leveraged buyout (LBO) is the acquisition by a small group of equity investors of a pub-
lic or private company financed primarily with debt. The equityholders service the heavy
interest and principal payments with cash from operations and/or asset sales. The share-
holders generally hope to reverse the LBO within three to seven years by way of a public
offering or sale of the company to another firm. A buyout is therefore likely to be success-
ful only if the firm generates enough cash to serve the debt in the early years, and if the com-
pany is attractive to other buyers as the buyout matures.
In a leveraged buyout, the equity investors are expected to pay off outstanding princi-
pal according to a specific timetable. The owners know that the firm’s debt-equity ratio will
fall and can forecast the dollar amount of debt needed to finance future operations. Under
Chapter 17
Valuation and Capital Budgeting for the Levered Firm
489
8This appendix has been adapted by Isik Inselbag and Howard Kaufold. The Wharton School, University of
Pennsylvania, from their unpublished manuscript entitled “Analyzing the RJR Nabisco Buyout: An Adjusted
Present Value Approach.”

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
496
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
these circumstances, the adjusted-present-value (APV) approach is more practical than the
weighted-average-cost-of-capital (WACC) approach because the capital structure is chang-
ing. In this appendix, we illustrate the use of this procedure in valuing the RJR Nabisco
transaction, the largest LBO in history.
The RJR Nabisco Buyout
In the summer of 1988, the price of RJR stock was hover-
ing around $55 a share. The firm had $5 billion of debt. The firm’s CEO, acting in con-
cert with some other senior managers of the firm, announced a bid of $75 per share to
take the firm private in a management buyout. Within days of management’s offer,
Kohlberg, Kravis and Roberts (KKR) entered the fray with a $90 bid of their own. By
the end of November, KKR emerged from the ensuing bidding process with an offer of
$109 a share, or $25 billion total. We now use the APV technique to analyze KKR’s win-
ning strategy.
The APV method as described in this chapter can be used to value companies as well
as projects. Applied in this way, the maximum value of a levered firm (VL) is its value as an
all-equity entity (VU) plus the discounted value of the interest tax shields from the debt its
assets will support (PVTS).9 This relation can be stated as
VL  VU  PVTS
In the second part of this equation, UCFt is the unlevered cash flow from operations for year
t. Discounting these cash flows by the required return on assets, r0, yields the all-equity
value of the company. Bt1 represents the debt balance remaining at the end of year (t  1).
Because interest in a given year is based on the debt balance remaining at the end of the pre-
vious year, the interest paid in year t is rBBt1. The numerator of the second term, TCrBBt1,
is therefore the tax shield for year t. We discount this series of annual tax shields using the
rate at which the firm borrows, rB.10
KKR planned to sell several of RJR’s food divisions and operate the remaining
parts of the firm more efficiently. Table 17A.1 presents KKR’s projected unlevered
cash flows for RJR under the buyout, adjusting for planned asset sales and operational
efficiencies.
With respect to financial strategy, KKR planned a significant increase in leverage with
accompanying tax benefits. Specifically, KKR issued almost $24 billion of new debt to
complete the buyout, raising annual interest costs to more than $3 billion.11 Table 17A.2
presents the projected interest expense and tax shields for the transaction.
 
 
	
t1
UCFt
1  r0 t  
 
	
t1
TCrBBt1
1  rB t
490
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
9One should also deduct from this value any costs of financial distress. However, we would expect these costs to
be small in the case of RJR for two reasons. As a firm in the tobacco and food industries, its cash flows are
relatively stable and recession resistant. Furthermore, the firm’s assets are divisible and attractive to a number of
potential buyers, allowing the firm to receive full value if disposition is required.
10The pretax borrowing rate, rB, represents the appropriate discount rate for the interest tax shields when there is
a precommitment to a specific debt repayment schedule under the terms of the LBO. If debt covenants require
that the entire free cash flow be dedicated to debt service, the amount of debt outstanding and, therefore, the
interest tax shield at any point in time are a direct function of the operating cash flows of the firm. Since the
debt balance is then as risky as the cash flows, the required return on assets should be used to discount the
interest tax shields.
11A significant portion of this debt was of the payment in kind (PIK) variety, which offers lenders additional
bonds instead of cash interest. This PIK debt financing provided KKR with significant tax shields while
allowing it to postpone the cash burden of debt service to future years. For simplicity of presentation, Table
17A.2 does not separately show cash versus noncash interest charges.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
497
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 17
Valuation and Capital Budgeting for the Levered Firm
491
I TABLE 17A.1 RJR Operating Cash Flows (in $ millions)
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
Operating income
$2,620
$3,410
$3,645
$3,950
$4,310
Tax on operating income
891
1,142
1,222
1,326
1,448
_____
_____
_____
_____
_____
After-tax operating income
1,729
2,268
2,423
2,624
2,862
Add back depreciation
449
475
475
475
475
Less capital expenditures
522
512
525
538
551
Less change in working capital
(203)
(275)
200
225
250
Add proceeds from asset sales
3,545
1,805
_____
_____
_____
_____
_____
Unlevered cash flow (UCF)
$5,404
$4,311
$2,173
$2,336
$2,536
______
______
______
______
______
______
______
______
______
______
I TABLE 17A.3 RJR LBO Valuation (in $ millions except share data)
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
Unlevered cash flow (UCF)
$ 5,404
$4,311
$2,173
$2,336
$ 2,536
Terminal value: (3% growth after 1993)
Unlevered terminal value (UTV)
23,746
Terminal value at target debt
26,654
Tax shield in terminal value
2,908
Interest tax shields
1,151
1,021
1,058
1,120
1,184
PV of UCF 1989–93 at 14%
12,224
PV of UTV at 14%
12,333
_______
Total unlevered value
$24,557
PV of tax shields 1989–93 at 13.5%
3,877
PV of tax shield in TV at 13.5%
1,544
_______
Total value of tax shields
5,421
_______
Total value
29,978
Less value of assumed debt
5,000
_______
Value of equity
$24,978
_______
_______
Number of shares
229 million
Value per share
$109.07
I TABLE 17A.2 Projected Interest Expenses and Tax Shields (in $ millions)
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
Interest expenses
$3,384
$3,004
$3,111
$3,294
$3,483
Interest tax shields (TC  34%)
1,151
1,021
1,058
1,120
1,184
We now use the data from Tables 17A.1 and 17A.2 to calculate the APV of the RJR
buyout. This valuation process is presented in Table 17A.3.
The valuation presented in Table 17A.3 involves four steps.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
498
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Step 1: Calculating the present value of unlevered cash flows for 1989–93
The unlevered
cash flows for 1989–93 are shown in the last line of Table 17A.1 and the first line of Table
17A.3. These flows are discounted by the required asset return, r0, which at the time of the
buyout was approximately 14 percent. The value as of the end of 1988 of the unlevered cash
flows expected from 1989 through 1993 is
Step 2: Calculating the present value of the unlevered cash flows beyond 1993 (unlevered
terminal value)
We assume the unlevered cash flows grow at the modest annual rate of 3
percent after 1993. The value, as of the end of 1993, of these cash flows is equal to the fol-
lowing discounted value of a growing perpetuity:
This translates to a 1988 value of
As in Step 1, the discount rate is the required asset rate of 14 percent.
The total unlevered value of the firm is therefore ($12.224  $12.333 ) $24.557 billion.
To calculate the total buyout value, we must add the interest tax shields expected to be
realized by debt financing.
Step 3: Calculating the present value of interest tax shields for 1989–93
Under the pre-
vailing U.S. tax laws in 1989, every dollar of interest reduces taxes by 34 cents. The pres-
ent value of the interest tax shield for the period from 1989–93 can be calculated by dis-
counting the annual tax savings at the pretax average cost of debt, which was approximately
13.5 percent. Using the tax shields from Table 17A.2, the discounted value of these tax
shields is calculated as
Step 4: Calculating the present value of interest tax shields beyond 1993
Finally, we
must calculate the value of tax shields associated with debt used to finance the operations
of the company after 1993. We assume that debt will be reduced and maintained at 25 per-
cent of the value of the firm from that date forward.12 Under this assumption it is appro-
priate to use the WACC method to calculate a terminal value for the firm at the target cap-
ital structure. This in turn can be decomposed into an all-equity value and a value from
tax shields.
1.151
1.135  1.021
1.1352  1.058
1.1353  1.120
1.1354  1.184
1.1355  $3.877 billion
23.746
1.145  $12.333 billion
2.5361.03
0.14  0.03  $23.746 billion
5.404
1.14  4.311
1.142  2.173
1.143  2.336
1.144  2.536
1.145  $12.224 billion
492
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
12This 25-percent figure is consistent with the debt utilization in industries in which RJR Nabisco is
involved. In fact, that was the debt-to-total-market-value ratio for RJR immediately before management’s
initial buyout proposal. The firm can achieve this target by 1993 if a significant portion of the convertible
debt used to finance the buyout is exchanged for equity by that time. Alternatively, KKR could issue new
equity (as would occur, for example, if the firm were taken public) and use the proceeds to retire some of
the outstanding debt.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
499
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
If, after 1993, RJR uses 25-percent debt in its capital structure, its WACC at this target
capital structure would be approximately 12.8 percent.13 Then the levered terminal value as
of the end of 1993 can be estimated as
 $26.654 billion
Since the levered value of the company is the sum of the unlevered value plus the value
of interest tax shields, it is the case that
Value of tax shields (end 1993)  VL (end 1993)  VU (end 1993)
 $26.654 billion  $23.746 billion
 $2.908 billion
To calculate the value, as of the end of 1988, of these future tax shields, we again discount
by the borrowing rate of 13.5 percent to get14
 $1.544 billion
The total value of interest tax shields therefore equals ($3.877  $1.544) $5.421 billion.
Adding all of these components together, the total value of RJR under the buyout pro-
posal is $29.978 billion. Deducting the $5 billion market value of assumed debt yields a
value for equity of $24.978 billion, or $109.07 per share.
2.908
1.1355
2.5361.03
0.128  0.03
Chapter 17
Valuation and Capital Budgeting for the Levered Firm
493
13To calculate this rate, use the weighted average cost of capital from this chapter:
and substitute the appropriate values for the proportions of debt and equity used, as well as their respective costs.
Specifically, at the target debt-value ratio,
, and 
. Given this blend,
Using these findings plus the borrowing rate of 13.5 percent in rWACC, we find
rWACC  0.75(0.141)  0.25(0.135)(1  0.34)  0.128
In fact, this value is an approximation to the true weighted average cost of capital when the market debt-value
blend is constant, or when the cash flows are growing. For a detailed discussion of this issue, see Isik Inselbag
and Howard Kaufold, “A Comparison of Alternative Discounted Cash Flow Approaches to Firm Valuation.” The
Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania (June 1990), unpublished paper.
14A good argument can be made that since post-1993 debt levels are proportional to firm value, the tax shields
are as risky as the firm and should be discounted at the rate r0.
 0.14  0.25
0.751  0.34 0.14  0.135  0.141
rS  r0  B
S 1  TC r0  rB
S
S  B  1 
B
S  B  75%
B
S  B  25%
rWACC 
S
S  BrS 
B
S  BrB1  TC

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
17. Valuation and Capital 
Budgeting for the Levered 
Firm
500
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Concluding Comments on LBO Valuation Methods
As mentioned earlier in this chap-
ter, the WACC method is by far the most widely applied approach to capital budgeting. One
could analyze an LBO and generate the results of the second section of this appendix using
this technique, but it would be a much more difficult process. We have tried to show that
the APV approach is the preferred way to analyze a transaction in which the capital struc-
ture is not stable over time.
Consider the WACC approach to valuing the KKR bid for RJR. One could discount the
operating cash flows of RJR by a set of weighted average costs of capital and arrive at the
same $30 billion total value for the company. To do this, one would need to calculate the ap-
propriate rate for each year since the WACC rises as the buyout proceeds. This occurs because
the value of the tax subsidy declines as debt principal is repaid. In other words, there is no sin-
gle return that represents the cost of capital when the firm’s capital structure is changing.
There is also a theoretical problem with the WACC approach to valuing a buyout. To
calculate the changing WACC, one must know the market value of a firm’s debt and equity.
But if the debt and equity values are already known, the total market value of the company
is also known. That is, one must know the value of the company to calculate the WACC. One
must therefore resort to using book-value measures for debt and equity, or make assumptions
about the evolution of their market values, in order to implement the WACC method.
494
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
501
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Dividend Policy: 
Why Does It Matter?
CHAPTER 18
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I
n recent years, U.S. corporations have paid out about 50 percent of their net income as
cash dividends. However, a significant number of corporations pay no cash dividends
and many pay more dividends than their net income.
Corporations view the dividend decision as quite important because it determines what
funds flow to investors and what funds are retained by the firm for reinvestment. Dividend
policy can also provide information to the stockholder concerning the firm’s performance.
The bulk of this chapter considers the rationale both for a policy of high dividend payout
and for a policy of low dividend payout.
In part, all discussions of dividends are plagued by the “two-handed lawyer” problem.
President Truman, while discussing the legal implications of a possible presidential deci-
sion, asked his staff to set up a meeting with a lawyer. Supposedly Mr. Truman said, “But
I don’t want one of those two-handed lawyers.” When asked what a two-handed lawyer was,
he replied, “You know, a lawyer who says, ‘On the one hand I recommend you do so-and-
so because of the following reasons, but on the other hand I recommend that you don’t do
it because of these other reasons.’ ” Unfortunately, any sensible treatment of dividend pol-
icy will appear to be written by a two-handed lawyer. On the one hand there are many good
reasons for corporations to pay high dividends, but on the other hand there are many good
reasons to pay low dividends.
We begin this chapter with a discussion of some practical aspects of dividend pay-
ments. Next we treat dividend policy. Before delineating the pros and cons of different div-
idend levels, we examine a benchmark case in which the choice of the level of dividends is
not important. Surprisingly, we will see that this conceptual setup is not merely an academic
curiosity but, instead, quite applicable to the real world. Next we consider personal taxes,
an imperfection generally inducing a low level of dividends. This is followed by reasons
justifying a high dividend level. Finally, we study the history of dividends of the Apple
Computer Company. The case provides some clues as to why firms pay dividends.
18.1 DIFFERENT TYPES OF DIVIDENDS
The term dividend usually refers to a cash distribution of earnings. If a distribution is made
from sources other than current or accumulated retained earnings, the term distribution rather
than dividend is used. However, it is acceptable to refer to a distribution from earnings as a
dividend and a distribution from capital as a liquidating dividend. More generally, any direct
payment by the corporation to the shareholders may be considered part of dividend policy.
The most common type of dividend is in the form of cash. Public companies usually
pay regular cash dividends four times a year. Sometimes firms will pay a regular cash div-
idend and an extra cash dividend. Paying a cash dividend reduces the corporate cash and
retained earnings shown in the balance sheet—except in the case of a liquidating dividend
(where paid-in capital may be reduced).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
502
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Another type of dividend is paid out in shares of stock. This dividend is referred to as
a stock dividend. It is not a true dividend, because no cash leaves the firm. Rather, a stock
dividend increases the number of shares outstanding, thereby reducing the value of each
share. A stock dividend is commonly expressed as a ratio; for example, with a 2-percent
stock dividend a shareholder receives one new share for every 50 currently owned.
When a firm declares a stock split, it increases the number of shares outstanding.
Because each share is now entitled to a smaller percentage of the firm’s cash flow, the stock
price should fall. For example, if the managers of a firm whose stock is selling at $90 de-
clare a 3:1 stock split, the price of a share of stock should fall to about $30. A stock split
strongly resembles a stock dividend except it is usually much larger.
18.2 STANDARD METHOD OF CASH DIVIDEND PAYMENT
The decision whether or not to pay a dividend rests in the hands of the board of directors of
the corporation. A dividend is distributable to shareholders of record on a specific date.
When a dividend has been declared, it becomes a liability of the firm and cannot be easily
rescinded by the corporation. The amount of the dividend is expressed as dollars per share
(dividend per share), as a percentage of the market price (dividend yield), or as a percent-
age of earnings per share (dividend payout).
The mechanics of a dividend payment can be illustrated by the example in Figure 18.1
and the following chronology.
1. Declaration date. On January 15 (the declaration date), the board of directors
passes a resolution to pay a dividend of $1 per share on February 16 to all holders of record
on January 30.
2. Date of record. The corporation prepares a list on January 30 of all individuals be-
lieved to be stockholders as of this date. The word believed is important here, because the
dividend will not be paid to those individuals whose notification of purchase is received by
the company after January 30.
3. Ex-dividend date. The procedure on the date of record would be unfair if efficient
brokerage houses could notify the corporation by January 30 of a trade occurring on
January 29, whereas the same trade might not reach the corporation until February 2 if ex-
ecuted by a less efficient house. To eliminate this problem, all brokerage firms entitle
stockholders to receive the dividend if they purchased the stock three business days before
496
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
Days
Thursday,
January
15
Wednesday,
January
28
Friday,
January
30
Monday,
February
16
Declaration
date
Ex-dividend
date
Record
date
Payment
date
I FIGURE 18.1 Example of Procedure for Dividend Payment
1. Declaration Date: The board of directors declares a payment of dividends.
2. Record Date: The declared dividends are distributable to shareholders of
record on a specific date.
3. Ex-dividend Date: A share of stock becomes ex-dividend on the date the
seller is entitled to keep the dividend; under NYSE rules, shares are traded
ex-dividend on and after the second business day before the record date.
4. Payment Date: The dividend checks are mailed to shareholders of record.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
503
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
the date of record. The second day before the date of record, which is Wednesday, January
28, in our example, is called the ex-dividend date. Before this date the stock is said to trade
cum dividend.
4. Date of payment. The dividend checks are mailed to the stockholders on February 16.
Obviously, the ex-dividend date is important, because an individual purchasing the se-
curity before the ex-dividend date will receive the current dividend, whereas another indi-
vidual purchasing the security on or after this date will not receive the dividend. The stock
price should fall on the ex-dividend date.1 It is worthwhile to note that this drop is an indi-
cation of efficiency, not inefficiency, because the market rationally attaches value to a cash
dividend. In a world with neither taxes nor transaction costs, the stock price would be ex-
pected to fall by the amount of the dividend:
Before ex-dividend date
Price  $(P  1)
On or after ex-dividend date
Price  $P
This is illustrated in Figure 18.2.
The amount of the price drop is a matter for empirical investigation. Elton and Gruber
have argued that, due to personal taxes, the stock price should fall by less than the dividend.2
For example, consider the case with no capital gains taxes. On the day before a stock goes
ex-dividend, shareholders must decide either (1) to buy the stock immediately and pay tax
on the forthcoming dividend, or (2) to buy the stock tomorrow, thereby missing the dividend.
If all investors are in the 28-percent bracket and the quarterly dividend is $1, the stock price
should fall by $0.72 on the ex-dividend date. That is, if the stock price falls by this amount
on the ex-dividend date, purchasers will receive the same return from either strategy.3
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
497
–t
–2
–1
0
+1
+2
t
$1 is the ex-dividend price drop
Price = $(P+1)
Price = $P
Perfect-world case
Ex-date
I FIGURE 18.2 Price Behavior around the Ex-dividend Date for a 
$1 Cash Dividend
The stock price will fall by the amount of the dividend on the ex-date (time 0). If the
dividend is $1 per share, the price will be equal to P on the ex-date.
Before ex-date (1)
Price  $(P  1)
Ex-date (0)
Price  $P
1Empirically, the stock price appears to fall within the first few minutes of the ex-dividend day.
2N. Elton and M. Gruber, “Marginal Stockholder Tax Rates and the Clientele Effect,” Review of Economics and
Statistics 52 (February 1970). See also R. Bali and G. L. Hite, “Ex-Dividend Day Stock Price Behavior:
Discreteness or Tax-Induced Clienteles?” Journal of Financial Economics (February 1998) and M. Frank and R.
Jagannathan, “Why Do Stock Prices Drop by Less than the Value of the Dividend? Evidence from a Country
without Taxes,” Journal of Financial Economics (February 1998).
3The situation is more complex when capital gains are considered. The individual pays capital gains taxes upon a
subsequent sale. Because the price drops on the ex-dividend date, the original purchase price is higher if the
purchase is made before the ex-dividend date, and the individual will reap, and pay taxes on, lower capital gains.
Elton and Gruber show that the price drop should be somewhat more than 72¢ when capital gains are considered.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
504
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
• Describe the procedure of a dividend payment.
• Why should the price of a stock change when it goes ex-dividend?
18.3 THE BENCHMARK CASE: AN ILLUSTRATION OF THE
IRRELEVANCE OF DIVIDEND POLICY
A powerful argument can be made that dividend policy does not matter. This will be illus-
trated with the Bristol Corporation. Bristol is an all-equity firm that has existed for 10 years.
The current financial managers know at the present time (date 0) that the firm will dissolve
in one year (date 1). At date 0 the managers are able to forecast cash flows with perfect cer-
tainty. The managers know that the firm will receive a cash flow of $10,000 immediately
and another $10,000 next year. They believe that Bristol has no additional positive NPV
projects it can use to its advantage.4
Current Policy: Dividends Set Equal to Cash Flow
At the present time, dividends (Div) at each date are set equal to the cash flow of $10,000.
The value of the firm can be calculated by discounting these dividends. This value is ex-
pressed as
V0  Div0 
where Div0 and Div1 are the cash flows paid out in dividends, and rS is the discount rate.
The first dividend is not discounted because it will be paid immediately.
Assuming rS  10%, the value of the firm is 
$19,090.91  $10,000 
If 1,000 shares are outstanding, the value of each share is
$19.09  $10 
(18.1)
To simplify the example, we assume that the ex-dividend date is the same as the date of pay-
ment. After the imminent dividend is paid, the stock price will immediately fall to $9.09
($19.09  $10). Several members of the board of Bristol have expressed dissatisfaction
with the current dividend policy and have asked you to analyze an alternative policy.
Alternative Policy: Initial Dividend Is Greater than Cash Flow
Another policy is for the firm to pay a dividend of $11 per share immediately, which
is, of course, a total dividend payout of $11,000. Because the cash runoff is only
$10,000, the extra $1,000 must be raised in one of a few ways. Perhaps the simplest
would be to issue $1,000 of bonds or stock now (at date 0). Assume that stock is issued
and the new stockholders will desire enough cash flow at date 1 to let them earn the 
$10
1.1
$10,000
1.1
Div1
1  rs
498
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?
4Bristol’s investment in physical assets is fixed.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
505
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
required 10-percent return on their date 0 investment.5 The new stockholders will de-
mand $1,100 of the date 1 cash flow,6 leaving only $8,900 to the old stockholders. The
dividends to the old stockholders will be
Date 0
Date 1
Aggregate dividends to old stockholders
$11,000
$8,900
Dividends per share
$ 11.00
$ 8.90
The present value of the dividends per share is therefore
$19.09  $11 
(18.2)
Students often find it instructive to determine the price at which the new stock is is-
sued. Because the new stockholders are not entitled to the immediate dividend, they would
pay $8.09 ($8.90/1.1) per share. Thus, 123.61 ($1,000/$8.09) new shares are issued.
The Indifference Proposition
Note that the values in equations (18.1) and (18.2) are equal. This leads to the initially sur-
prising conclusion that the change in dividend policy did not affect the value of a share of
stock. However, upon reflection, the result seems quite sensible. The new stockholders are
parting with their money at date 0 and receiving it back with the appropriate return at date
1. In other words, they are taking on a zero NPV investment. As illustrated in Figure 18.3,
old stockholders are receiving additional funds at date 0 but must pay the new stockhold-
ers their money with the appropriate return at date 1. Because the old stockholders must pay
back principal plus the appropriate return, the act of issuing new stock at date 0 will not in-
crease or decrease the value of the old stockholders’ holdings. That is, they are giving up a
zero NPV investment to the new stockholders. An increase in dividends at date 0 leads to
the necessary reduction of dividends at date 1, so the value of the old stockholders’ hold-
ings remains unchanged.
This illustration is based on the pioneering work of Miller and Modigliani (MM).7
Although our presentation is in the form of a numerical example, the MM paper proves that
investors are indifferent to dividend policy in the general algebraic case. MM make the fol-
lowing assumptions:
1. There are neither taxes nor brokerage fees, and no single participant can affect the mar-
ket price of the security through his or her trades. Economists say that perfect markets
exist when these conditions are met.
2. All individuals have the same beliefs concerning future investments, profits, and divi-
dends. As mentioned in Chapter 10, these individuals are said to have homogeneous ex-
pectations.
3. The investment policy of the firm is set ahead of time, and is not altered by changes in
dividend policy.
$8.90
1.1
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
499
5The same results would occur after an issue of bonds, though the argument would be less easily resolved.
6Because the new stockholders buy at date 0, their first (and only) dividend is at date 1.
7M. H. Miller and F. Modigliani, “Dividend Policy, Growth and the Valuation of Shares,” Journal of Business
(October 1961). Yes, this is the same MM who gave us a capital-structure theory.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
506
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Homemade Dividends
To illustrate the indifference investors have toward dividend policy in our example, we used
present-value equations. An alternative and perhaps more intuitively appealing explanation
avoids the mathematics of discounted cash flows.
Suppose individual investor X prefers dividends per share of $10 at both dates 0 and 1.
Would she be disappointed when informed that the firm’s management is adopting the al-
ternative dividend policy (dividends of $11 and $8.90 on the two dates, respectively)? Not
necessarily, because she could easily reinvest the $1 of unneeded funds received on date 0,
yielding an incremental return of $1.10 at date 1. Thus, she would receive her desired net
cash flow of $11  $1  $10 at date 0 and $8.90  $1.10  $10 at date 1.
Conversely, imagine investor Z preferring $11 of cash flow at date 0 and $8.90 of cash
flow at date 1, who finds that management will pay dividends of $10 at both dates 0 and 1.
Here he can sell off shares of stock at date 0 to receive the desired amount of cash flow. That
is, if he sells off shares (or fractions of shares) at date 0 totaling $1, his cash flow at date 0
becomes $10  $1  $11. Because a sale of $1 stock at date 0 will reduce his dividends by
$1.10 at date 1, his net cash flow at date 1 would be $10  $1.10  $8.90.
500
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
Dividends
($)
Dividends
($)
Current dividend policy:
Old shareholders receive $10,000
at both date 0 and date 1
10,000
0
11,000
0
8,900
Date 0
Date 1
Date 0
Date 1
Time
Time
Alternative policy:
Old shareholders receive
additional $1,000 at date 0
but receive $1,100 less at date 1
Time
1,100
Cash flows
($)
Alternative policy:
New shareholders pay in $1,000
at date 0 and receive $1,100 in
dividends at date 1
0
–1,000
Date 0
Date 1
I FIGURE 18.3 Current and Alternative Dividend Policies

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
507
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The example illustrates how investors can make homemade dividends. In this instance,
corporate dividend policy is being undone by a potentially dissatisfied stockholder. This home-
made dividend is illustrated by Figure 18.4. Here the firm’s cash flows of $10 at both dates 0
and 1 are represented by point A. This point also represents the initial dividend payout.
However, as we just saw, the firm could alternatively pay out $11 at date 0 and $8.90 at date 1,
a strategy represented by point B. Similarly, by either issuing new stock or buying back old
stock, the firm could achieve a dividend payout represented by any point on the diagonal line.
The previous paragraph describes the choices available to the managers of the firm.
The same diagonal line also represents the choices available to the shareholder. For exam-
ple, if the shareholder receives a dividend distribution of ($11, $8.90), he or she can either
reinvest some of the dividends to move down and to the right on the graph or sell off shares
of stock and move up and to the left.
The implications of the graph can be summarized in two sentences:
1. By varying dividend policy, the managers can achieve any payout along the diagonal line
in Figure 18.4.
2. Either by reinvesting excess dividends at date 0 or by selling off shares of stock at this
date, any individual investor can achieve any net cash payout along the diagonal line.
Thus, because both the corporation and the individual investor can move only along the
diagonal line, dividend policy in this model is irrelevant. The changes the managers make
in dividend policy can be undone by an individual who, by either reinvesting dividends or
selling off stock, can move to a desired point on the diagonal line.
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
501
$11
$10
$9
$8.90
$10.00
$11.10
Date 1
Date 0
B
A
C
($10, $10)
                 1
Slope = – —
                  1.1
I FIGURE 18.4 Homemade Dividends: A Trade-Off between
Dividends at Date 0 and Dividends at Date 1
The graph illustrates both (1) how managers can vary dividend
policy and (2) how individuals can undo the firm’s dividend policy.
Managers varying dividend policy. A firm paying out all cash
flows immediately is at point A on the graph. The firm could
achieve point B by issuing stock to pay extra dividends or achieve
point C by buying back old stock with some of its cash.
Individuals undoing the firm’s dividend policy. Suppose the
firm adopts the dividend policy represented by point B: dividends
of $11 at date 0 and $8.90 at date 1. An investor can reinvest $1 of
the dividends at 10 percent, which will place her at point A.
Suppose, alternatively, the firm adopts the dividend policy
represented by point A. An individual can sell off $1 of stock at
date 0, placing him at point B. No matter what dividend policy the
firm establishes, a sharholder can undo it.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
508
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
A Test
You can test your knowledge of this material by examining these true statements:
1. Dividends are relevant.
2. Dividend policy is irrelevant.
The first statement follows from common sense. Clearly, investors prefer higher dividends
to lower dividends at any single date if the dividend level is held constant at every other
date. In other words, if the dividend per share at a given date is raised while the dividend
per share for each other date is held constant, the stock price will rise. This act can be ac-
complished by management decisions that improve productivity, increase tax savings, or
strengthen product marketing. In fact, you may recall in Chapter 5 we argued that the value
of a firm’s equity is equal to the discounted present value of all its future dividends.
The second statement is understandable once we realize that dividend policy cannot
raise the dividend per share at one date while holding the dividend level per share constant
at all other dates. Rather, dividend policy merely establishes the trade-off between divi-
dends at one date and dividends at another date. As we saw in Figure 18.4, an increase in
date 0 dividends can be accomplished only by a decrease in date 1 dividends. The extent of
the decrease is such that the present value of all dividends is not affected.
Thus, in this simple world, dividend policy does not matter. That is, managers choos-
ing either to raise or to lower the current dividend do not affect the current value of their
firm. The above theory is a powerful one, and the work of MM is generally considered a
classic in modern finance. With relatively few assumptions, a rather surprising result is
shown to be perfectly true.8 Because we want to examine many real-world factors ignored
by MM, their work is only a starting point in this chapter’s discussion of dividends. The
next part of the chapter investigates these real-world considerations.
Dividends and Investment Policy
The preceding argument shows that an increase in dividends through issuance of new shares
neither helps nor hurts the stockholders. Similarly, a reduction in dividends through share
repurchase neither helps nor hurts stockholders.
What about reducing capital expenditures to increase dividends? Earlier chapters show
that a firm should accept all positive net-present-value projects. To do otherwise would re-
duce the value of the firm. Thus, we have an important point:
Firms should never give up a positive NPV project to increase a dividend (or to pay a dividend
for the first time).
This idea was implicitly considered by Miller and Modigliani. As we pointed out, one of
the assumptions underlying their dividend-irrelevance proposition was, “The investment
policy of the firm is set ahead of time and is not altered by changes in dividend policy.”
• How can an investor make homemade dividends?
• Are dividends irrelevant?
• What assumptions are needed to show that dividend policy is irrelevant?
502
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
8One of the real contributions of MM has been to shift the burden of proof. Before MM, firm value was believed
to be influenced by its dividend policy. After MM, it became clear that establishing a correct dividend policy
was not obvious at all.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
509
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
18.4 TAXES, ISSUANCE COSTS, AND DIVIDENDS
The model we used to determine the level of dividends assumed that there were no taxes,
no transactions costs, and no uncertainty. It concluded that dividend policy is irrelevant. Al-
though this model helps us to grasp some fundamentals of dividend policy, it ignores many
factors that exist in reality. It is now time to investigate these real-world considerations. We
first examine the effect of taxes on the level of a firm’s dividends.
Cash dividends received are taxed as ordinary income. Capital gains are generally
taxed at somewhat lower rates. In addition, dividends are taxable when distributed, whereas
taxes on capital gains are deferred until the stock is sold. Thus, for individual shareholders,
the effective tax rate on dividend income is higher than the tax rate on capital gains. A dis-
cussion of dividend policy in the presence of personal taxes is facilitated by classifying
firms into two types, those without sufficient cash to pay a dividend and those with suffi-
cient cash to do so.
Firms without Sufficient Cash to Pay a Dividend
It is simplest to begin with a firm without cash and owned by a single entrepreneur. If this
firm should decide to pay a dividend of $100, it must raise capital. The firm might choose
among a number of different stock and bond issues in order to pay the dividend. However,
for simplicity, we assume that the entrepreneur contributes cash to the firm by issuing stock
to himself. This transaction, diagrammed in the left-hand side of Figure 18.5, would clearly
be a wash in a world of no taxes. $100 cash goes into the firm when stock is issued and is
immediately paid out as a dividend. Thus, the entrepreneur neither benefits nor loses when
the dividend is paid, a result consistent with Miller-Modigliani.
Now assume that dividends are taxed at the owner’s personal tax rate of 30 percent. The
firm still receives $100 upon issuance of stock. However, the $100 dividend is not fully
credited to the entrepreneur. Instead, the dividend payment is taxed, implying that the owner
receives only $70 net after tax. Thus, the entrepreneur loses $30. 
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
503
Firm
Firm
Dividend
($100)
Cash from
issue of stock
($100)
Dividend
($100)
Cash from
issue of stock
($100)
No taxes
A personal tax rate of 30%
($30)
IRS
($70)
Entrepreneur
Entrepreneur
I FIGURE 18.5 Firm Issues Stock in Order to Pay a Dividend
In the no-tax case, the entrepreneur receives the $100 in dividends that he gave to the firm when
purchasing stock. The entire operation is called a wash; in other words, it has no economic effect. With
taxes, the entrepreneur  still receives $100 in dividends. However, he must pay $30 in taxes to the IRS.
The entrepreneur loses and the IRS wins when a firm issues stock to pay a dividend.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
510
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Though the example is clearly contrived and unrealistic, similar results can be reached
for more plausible situations. Thus, financial economists generally agree that, in a world of
personal taxes, one should not issue stock to pay a dividend.
The direct costs of issuance will add to this effect. Investment bankers must be paid
when new capital is raised. Thus, the net receipts due to the firm from a new issue are less
than 100 percent of total capital raised. These costs are examined in a later chapter. Because
the size of new issues can be lowered by a reduction in dividends, we have another argu-
ment in favor of a low-dividend policy.
An increase in dividends may lead to a decline in stock price for still another reason.
The market price of a stock is determined by the interaction of the demand for and the sup-
ply of stock. New issues increase the outstanding supply of the stock, putting downward
pressure on the market price of existing shares. Therefore, to the extent that dividends are
financed by new issues, an increase in dividends may well contribute to a stock-price re-
duction. However, in an efficient stock market, changes in the supply of stock should have
a negligible effect on stock price.
Of course, our advice not to finance dividends through new stock issues might need to
be modified somewhat in the real world. A company with a large and steady cash flow for
many years in the past might be paying a regular dividend. If the cash flow unexpectedly
dried up for a single year, should new stock be issued so that dividends could be continued?
While our above discussion would imply that new stock should not be issued, many man-
agers might issue the stock anyway for practical reasons. In particular, stockholders appear
to prefer dividend stability. Thus, managers might be forced to issue stock to achieve this
stability, knowing full well the adverse tax consequences.
Firms with Sufficient Cash to Pay a Dividend
The previous discussion argues that, in a world with personal taxes, one should not issue
stock to pay a dividend. Does the tax disadvantage of dividends imply the stronger policy,
“Never pay dividends in a world with personal taxes”?
We argue below that this prescription does not necessarily apply to firms with excess
cash. To see this, imagine a firm with $1 million in extra cash after selecting all positive
NPV projects and determining the level of prudent cash balances. The firm might consider
the following alternatives to a dividend:
1. Select Additional Capital-Budgeting Projects. Because the firm has taken all the available
positive NPV projects already, it must invest its excess cash in negative NPV projects. This
is clearly a policy at variance with principles of corporate finance. In spite of our distaste
for this strategy, Professor Michael Jensen of Harvard University has suggested that many
managers choose to take on negative NPV projects in lieu of paying dividends, doing their
stockholders a disservice in the process.9 Oil companies and tobacco companies appear to
be particularly guilty of this policy. It is frequently argued that managers who adopt nega-
tive NPV projects are ripe for takeover, leveraged buyouts, and proxy fights.
2. Acquire Other Companies. To avoid the payment of dividends, a firm might use excess
cash to acquire another company. This strategy has the advantage of acquiring profitable
assets. However, a firm often incurs heavy costs when it embarks on an acquisition pro-
gram. In addition, acquisitions are invariably made above the market price. Premiums of
20 to 80 percent are not uncommon. Because of this, a number of researchers have ar-
gued that mergers are not generally profitable to the acquiring company, even when
504
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
9M. C. Jensen, “Agency Costs of Free Cash Flows, Corporate Finance and Takeovers,” American Economic
Review (May 1986).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
511
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
firms are merged for a valid business purpose.10 Therefore, a company making an ac-
quisition merely to avoid a dividend is unlikely to succeed.
3. Purchase Financial Assets. The strategy of purchasing financial assets in lieu of a div-
idend payment can be illustrated with the following example.
EXAMPLE
The Regional Electric Company has $1,000 of extra cash. It can retain the cash and
invest it in Treasury bills yielding 10 percent, or it can pay the cash to sharehold-
ers as a dividend. Shareholders can also invest in Treasury bills with the same
yield. Suppose the corporate tax rate is 34 percent, and the individual tax rate is 28
percent. How much cash will investors have after five years under each policy?
If dividends are paid now, shareholders will receive
$1,000  (1  0.28)  $720
today after personal tax. Because their return after personal tax is 7.2 percent, they will have
$720  (1.072)5  $1,019.31
(18.3)
in five years. If Regional Electric Company retains the cash to invest in Treasury bills and
pays out the proceeds five years from now, the firm will have
$1,000  (1.066)5  $1,376.53
in five years.
If this is paid as a dividend, the stockholders will receive
$1,376.53  (1  0.28)  $991.10
(18.4)
after personal taxes at date 5. The result in formula (18.3) is greater than that in (18.4), im-
plying that cash to stockholders will be greater if the firm pays the dividend now.
This example shows that, for a firm with extra cash, the dividend-payout decision will de-
pend on personal and corporate tax rates. If personal tax rates are higher than corporate tax rates,
a firm will have an incentive to reduce dividend payouts. However, if personal tax rates are lower
than corporate tax rates, a firm will have an incentive to pay out any excess cash as dividends.
There is a quirk in the tax law benefiting firms that invest in stock rather than bonds.
For a company investing in less than 20 percent of the stock of other firms, 70 percent of
the dividends received are excluded from corporate tax.11 If Regional Electric invested
$1,000 in a one-year preferred stock yielding 10 percent, only $30 of the $100 in dividends
would be subject to tax. Corporate tax would be
$30  0.34  $1,000  0.10  0.3  0.34  $10.20
Thus, Regional Electric would have
$1,000  1.10  $1,000  0.10  0.3  0.34
 $1,000  [1  0.10  (1  0.3  0.34)]
 $1,100  $10.20  $1,089.80
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
505
10Richard Roll, “The Hubris Hypothesis of Corporate Takeovers,” Journal of Business (1986), pp. 197–216,
explores this idea in depth.
11The exclusion is 100 percent if a company owns 80 percent or more of the stock of another firm. It is 80
percent if a company holds more than 20 percent and less than 80 percent of another company.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
512
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
at the end of one year. Regional is being taxed at an effective rate of 0.30  0.34  10.2%.
At the end of five years, Regional would have
$1,000  [1  0.10  (1  0.30  0.34)]5
 $1,000  [1  0.10  (1  0.1020)]5
 $1,537.21
If this is paid as a dividend, the stockholders would receive
$1,537.21  (1  0.28)  $1,106.79
(18.5)
at that time.
Because individual investors are not allowed this dividend exclusion, they would re-
ceive the same amount whether they invested date 0 dividends in 10-percent T-bills or 10-
percent preferred stock. Because the result in equation (18.5) is greater than the one in
(18.4), Regional should invest in preferred stock rather than pay a dividend at date 0.
Because this dividend-exclusion percentage is so large, most real-world examples fa-
vor retention rather than payment of dividends. However, there appear to be very few, if any,
companies that hoard cash in this manner without limit. This occurs because Section 532
of the Internal Revenue Code penalizes firms with “improper accumulation of surplus.”
The above example suggests that, because of personal taxes, firms have an incentive to
reduce their payment of dividends. For example, they might increase capital expenditures,
repurchase shares, acquire other firms, or buy financial assets. However, due to financial
considerations and legal constraints, rational firms at some point may bite the bullet and pay
some dividends. In other words, we are arguing that firms with large cash flows may pay
dividends simply because they have run out of better things to do with their funds.
Summary on Taxes
Miller and Modigliani argue that dividend policy is irrelevant in a perfect capital market.
However, because dividends are taxed as ordinary income, the MM irrelevance principle
does not hold in the presence of personal taxes.
We make three points for a regime of personal taxes:
1. A firm should not issue stock to pay a dividend.
2. Managers have an incentive to seek alternative uses for funds to reduce dividends.
3. Though personal taxes mitigate against the payment of dividends, these taxes are not
sufficient to lead firms to eliminate all dividends.
We argue that a manager should only avoid dividends if the alternative use of the funds is
less costly. Though this point may seem obvious to some, it has been missed by many fi-
nancial people. A number of them have argued, incorrectly in our view, that personal taxes
imply that no firm should ever pay dividends.
18.5 REPURCHASE OF STOCK
Instead of paying cash dividends, a firm can rid itself of excess cash by repurchasing shares
of its own stock. Recently share repurchase has become an important way of distributing
earnings to shareholders.12 The repurchase of stock is a potentially useful adjunct to divi-
506
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
12Adam Dunsby, “Share Repurchases, Dividends, and Corporate Distribution Policy,” unpublished manuscript,
The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, November 29, 1994, shows a dramatic increase in share
repurchase since 1983. See also Laurie S. Bagwell and John B. Shoven, “Cash Distribution to Shareholders,”
Journal of Economic Perspective 3 (1989).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
513
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
dend policy, when tax avoidance is important. We first consider an example presented in the
theoretical world of a perfect capital market. We next discuss the real-world factors in-
volved in the repurchase decision.
Dividend versus Repurchase
Imagine a company with excess cash of $300,000 (or $3 per share) that is considering an
immediate payment of this amount as an extra dividend. The firm forecasts that, after the
dividend, earnings will be $450,000 per year, or $4.50 for each of the 100,000 shares out-
standing. Because the price-earnings ratio is 6 for comparable companies, the shares of the
firm should sell for $27. These figures are presented in the top half of Table 18.1.
Alternatively, the firm could use the excess cash to repurchase some of its own stock.
Imagine that a tender offer of $30 a share is made. Here, 10,000 shares are repurchased so
that the total number of shares remaining is 90,000. With fewer shares outstanding, the
earnings per share will rise to $5. The price-earnings ratio remains at 6, since both the busi-
ness and financial risks of the firm are the same in the repurchase case as they were for the
dividend case. Thus the price of a share after the repurchase is $30.
If commissions, taxes, and other imperfections are ignored in our example, the stock-
holders are indifferent between a dividend and a repurchase. With dividends, each stock-
holder owns a share worth $27 and receives $3 in dividends, so that the total value is $30.
This figure is the same as both the amount received by the selling stockholders and the value
of the stock for the remaining stockholders in the repurchase case.
This example illustrates the important point that, in a perfect market, the firm is indif-
ferent between a dividend payment and a share repurchase. This result is quite similar to
the indifference propositions established by MM for debt versus equity financing and for
dividends versus capital gains.
Relationship between EPS and Market Value
You may often read in the popular financial press that a repurchase agreement is beneficial
because earnings per share increase. Earnings per share do rise in the preceding example
where repurchase is substituted for a cash dividend: the EPS is $4.50 after a dividend and
$5 after the repurchase. This result holds because the drop in shares after a repurchase im-
plies a reduction in the denominator of the EPS ratio. 
However, the financial press may place undue emphasis on EPS figures in a repurchase
agreement. Given the irrelevance propositions we have discussed, an increase in EPS need
not be beneficial. When a repurchase is financed by excess cash, we showed that in a per-
fect capital market the total value to the stockholder is the same under the dividend pay-
ment strategy as under the repurchase agreement strategy.
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
507
I TABLE 18.1 Dividend versus Repurchase Example
For Entire Firm
Per Share
Extra Dividend
(100,000 shares outstanding)
Proposed dividend
$ 300,000
$ 3.00
Forecasted annual earnings after dividend
450,000
4.50
Market value of stock after dividend
2,700,000
27.00
Repurchase
(90,000 shares outstanding)
Forecasted annual earnings after repurchase
$ 450,000
$ 5.00
Market value of stock after repurchase
2,700,000
30.00

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
514
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Taxes
The examples we have just described show that repurchase does not raise the wealth of the
remaining shareholders in a world without taxes and transactions costs. However, stock-
holders generally prefer a repurchase to a dividend under current tax law. For example, a
dividend of $1 per share is taxed at ordinary income rates. Investors in the 28 percent tax
bracket who own 100 shares of the security would pay as much as $28 in taxes. Selling
stockholders would pay far lower taxes under a repurchase of $100 of existing shares. This
is because taxes are paid only on the profit from a sale. Thus the gain on a sale would be
only $40 if the shares sold at $100 were originally purchased at $60. In addition, the capi-
tal gains tax rate is usually lower than the ordinary income tax rate. In this example, the cap-
ital gains tax rate is 20 percent. The capital gains tax would be (0.20  $40)  $8.
If the example strikes you as being too good to be true, you are quite likely right. The
IRS is aware that the stockholders of a corporation engaging in a continuous repurchasing
program pay far less in taxes than stockholders receiving dividends. Thus the IRS is likely
to penalize corporations repurchasing their own stocks if the only reason is to avoid the
taxes that would be levied on dividends. However, a one-time-only repurchase of shares
will most often avoid IRS scrutiny.
Targeted Repurchase
Our previous discussion concerned companies that make nonselective repurchases, usually
executed through tender offers13 or open-market purchases. In addition, firms have repur-
chased shares from specific individual stockholders. This procedure has been called a “tar-
geted repurchase.” For example, suppose the International Biotechnology Corporation pur-
chased approximately 10 percent of the outstanding stock of the Prime Robotics Company
(P-R Co.) in April at around $38 per share. At that time, International Biotechnology an-
nounced to the Securities and Exchange Commission that it might eventually try to take
control of P-R Co. In May, P-R Co. repurchased the International Biotechnology holdings
at $48 per share, well above the market price at that time. This offer was not extended to
other shareholders.
Companies engage in this type of repurchase for a variety of reasons. In some rare
cases a single large stockholder can be bought out at a price lower than that in a tender of-
fer. The legal fees in a targeted repurchase may also be lower than those in a more typical
buyback. More frequently, the repurchasing firm has argued that certain stockholders had
been nuisances. Though targeted repurchases executed for these reasons are in the interest
of the remaining shareholders, the shares of large stockholders are often repurchased to
avoid a takeover unfavorable to management.
Repurchase as Investment
Many companies buy back stock because they believe that a repurchase is their best in-
vestment. This occurs more frequently when managers believe that the stock price is tem-
porarily depressed. Here, it is likely thought that (1) investment opportunities in nonfinan-
cial assets are few, and (2) the firm’s own stock price should rise with the passage of time.
The fact that some companies repurchase their stock when they believe it is undervalued
does not imply that the management of the company must be correct; only empirical studies
can make this determination. The immediate stock market reaction to the announcement of a
508
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
13In a tender offer, shareholders send in (tender) their shares in exchange for a specified price per share.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
515
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
stock repurchase is usually quite favorable. In addition, recent empirical work has shown that
the long-term stock price performance of securities after a buyback is significantly better than
the stock price performance of comparable companies that do not repurchase.14
• Why does a stock repurchase make more sense than paying dividends?
• Why don’t all firms use stock repurchases?
18.6 EXPECTED RETURN, DIVIDENDS, AND PERSONAL TAXES
The material presented so far in this chapter can properly be called a discussion of dividend
policy. That is, it is concerned with the level of dividends chosen by a firm. A related, but
distinctly different, question is, “What is the relationship between the expected return on a
security and its dividend yield?” To answer this question, we consider an extreme situation
where dividends are taxed as ordinary income and capital gains are not taxed. Corporate
taxes are ignored.
Suppose every shareholder is in a 25-percent tax bracket and is considering the stocks
of firm g and firm d. Firm g pays no dividend; firm d does. Suppose the current price of the
stock of firm g is $100 and next year’s price is expected to be $120. The shareholder in firm
g expects a $20 capital gain, implying a 20-percent return. If capital gains are not taxed, the
pretax and after-tax returns must be the same.15
Suppose firm d will pay a $20 dividend per share next year. The price of firm d’s stock
is expected to be $100 after the dividend payment. If the stocks of firm g and firm d are
equally risky, the market prices must be set so that their after-tax expected returns are equal,
in this case, to 20 percent. What will the current price of stock in firm d equal?
The current market price of a share in firm d can be calculated as follows:
The first term in the numerator is $100, the expected price of the stock at date 1. The second
term represents the dividend after personal tax, where Td is the personal tax rate on dividends.
(The tax on capital gains is ignored under our assumption of no capital gains tax.) By dis-
counting at 20 percent, we are ensuring that the after-tax rate on stock d is 20 percent, the same
as the rate of return (both pre- and post-tax) for firm g. Setting Td  0.25, P0  $95.83.
Because the investor receives $120 from firm d at date 1 ($100 in value of stock plus
$20 in dividends) before personal taxes, the expected pretax return on the security equals
 1  25.22%
These calculations are presented in Table 18.2.
$120
$95.83
P0  $100  $201  Td
1.20
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
509
14For example, see David Ikenberry, Joseph Lakonishok, and Theo Vermaelen, “Market Underreaction to Open
Market Share Repurchases,” Journal of Financial Economics 39 (1995).
15Under current tax law, taxes on capital gains are not paid until the owner sells. Because the owner may wait
indefinitely, the effective tax on capital gains in the real world is quite low. For example, A. Protopapadakis
(“Some Indirect Evidence on Effective Capital Gains Tax Rates,” Journal of Business, April 1983) finds that
“the effective marginal tax rates on capital gains fluctuated between 3.4 percent and 6.6 percent between 1960
and 1978 and that capital gains are held, on average, between 24 and 31 years before they are reported” (p. 127).
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
516
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
This example shows that the expected pretax return on a security with a high dividend
yield is greater than the expected pretax return on an otherwise identical security with a low
dividend yield.16 The result is graphed in Figure 18.6. Our conclusion is consistent with ef-
ficient capital markets because much of the pretax return for a security with a high dividend
yield is taxed away. One implication is that an individual in a zero tax bracket should invest
in securities with high dividend yields. There is at least casual evidence that pension funds,
which are not subject to taxes, select securities with high dividend yields.
Does the above example suggest that corporate managers should avoid paying divi-
dends? One might think so at first glance, because firm g sells at a higher price at date 0
than does firm d. However, by deferring a potential $20 dividend, firm d might increase its
stock price at date 0 by far less than $20. For example, this is likely to be the case if firm
d’s best use for its cash is to pay $20 for a company whose market price is far below $20.
Moreover, our previous discussion showed that deferment of dividends to purchase either
bonds or shares of stock is justified only when personal taxes go down by more than cor-
porate taxes rise. Thus, this example does not imply that dividends should be avoided.
Empirical Evidence
As explained above, financial theory indicates that the expected return on a security should
be related to its dividend yield. Although this issue has been researched thoroughly, the em-
pirical results are not generally consistent with each other. On the one hand, Brennan as
well as Litzenberger and Ramaswamy (LR) find a positive association between expected
510
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
I TABLE 18.2 Effect of Dividend Yield on Pretax Expected Returns
Firm g
Firm d
(no dividend)
(all dividend)
Assumptions:
Expected price at date 1
$120
$100
Dividend at date 1 (before tax)
0
$ 20
Dividend at date 1 (after tax)
0
$ 15
Price at date 0
$100
(to be solved)
Analysis:
We solve that the price of firm d at date 0 is $95.83,* allowing us to calculate 
Capital gain
$20
$100  $95.83  $4.17
Total gain before tax
(both dividend and capital gain)
$20
$20  $4.17  $24.17
Total percentage return (before tax)
 0.20
 0.252
Total gain after tax
$20
$15  $4.17  $19.17
Total percentage return (after tax)
 0.20
 0.20
Stocks with high-dividend yields will have higher pretax expected returns than stocks with low-dividend yields.
This is referred to as the grossing up effect.
*We solve for the price of firm d at date 0 as
P0 
 $95.83
$100  $20  1  0.25
1.20
$19.17
$95.83
$20
$100
$24.17
$95.83
$20
$100
16Dividend yield is defined as 
.
Annual dividends per share
Current price per share

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
517
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
pretax returns and dividend yields.17,18,19 In particular, LR find that a 1-percent increase in
dividend yield requires an extra 23 percent in expected return. On the other hand, both
Black and Scholes and Miller and Scholes find no relationship between expected pretax re-
turns and dividend yields.20,21
Fama and French develop a third point of view.22 They present evidence that expected
returns are positively related to a number of variables, such as dividend yield, the earnings-
to-price ratio, and the ratio of book equity to market equity (BEME). However, they argue
that the underlying relationship is between returns and BEME. In their view, a relationship
between returns and the dividend yield is observed only because dividend yield is corre-
lated with BEME. Their work has had a big impact, with the field generating little, if any,
research on expected returns and dividend yields in recent years.
• What is the relationship between expected returns and dividend yield?
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
511
Expected return*
on a security
Dividend yield on
the security
I FIGURE 18.6 Relationship between Expected Return and 
Dividend Yield
Because the tax rate on dividends at the personal level is higher than the
effective rate on capital gains, stockholders demand higher expected
returns on high-dividend stocks than on low-dividend stocks. 
*Expected return includes both expected capital gain and dividend.
17M. Brennan, “Taxes: Market Valuation and Corporate Financial Policy,” National Tax Journal (December 1970).
18R. Litzenberger and K. Ramaswamy, “The Effect of Personal Taxes and Dividends on Capital Asset Prices:
Theory and Empirical Evidence,” Journal of Financial Economics (June 1979).
19R. Litzenberger and K. Ramaswamy, “The Effects of Dividends on Common Stock Prices: Tax Effects or
Information Effect?” Journal of Finance (May 1982).
20F. Black and M. Scholes, “The Effects of Dividend Yield and Dividend Policy on Common Stock Prices and
Returns,” Journal of Financial Economics (May 1974).
21M. Miller and M. Scholes, “Dividends and Taxes: Some Empirical Evidence,” Journal of Political Economics
(December 1982).
22See, for example, E. F. Fama and K. R. French, “The Cross-Section of Expected Returns,” Journal of Finance
(June 1992).
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
518
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
18.7 REAL-WORLD FACTORS FAVORING A
HIGH-DIVIDEND POLICY
In a previous section, we pointed out that dividends are taxed at the personal level. This im-
plies that financial managers will seek out ways to reduce dividends, though a complete
elimination of dividends would be unlikely for firms with strong cash flow. We also pointed
out that share repurchase is a way financial managers can convey many of the same bene-
fits of a dividend without the tax disadvantage. In this section, we consider reasons why a
firm might pay its shareholders high dividends, even in the presence of high personal taxes
on dividends.
Desire for Current Income
It has been argued that many individuals desire current income. The classic example is the
group of retired people and others living on a fixed income, proverbially known as “wid-
ows and orphans.” The argument further states that these individuals would bid up the stock
price should dividends rise and bid down the stock price should dividends fall.
Miller and Modigliani point out that this argument is not relevant to their theoretical
model. An individual preferring high current cash flow but holding low-dividend securities
could easily sell off shares to provide the necessary funds. Thus, in a world of no transac-
tions costs, a high–current-dividend policy would be of no value to the stockholder.
However, the current income argument does have relevance in the real world. Here the sale
of low-dividend stocks would involve brokerage fees and other transactions costs—direct
cash expenses that could be avoided by an investment in high-dividend securities. In addi-
tion, the expenditure of the stockholder’s own time when selling securities and the natural
(but not necessarily rational) fear of consuming principal might further lead many investors
to buy high-dividend securities.
However, to put this argument in perspective, it should be remembered that financial
intermediaries such as mutual funds can perform these repackaging transactions for indi-
viduals at very low cost. Such intermediaries could buy low-dividend stocks and, by a con-
trolled policy of realizing gains, pay their investors at a higher rate.
Uncertainty Resolution
We have just pointed out that investors with substantial needs for current consumption will
prefer high current dividends. Gordon originally argued that a high-dividend policy also
benefits stockholders because it resolves uncertainty.23 He states that investors price a se-
curity by forecasting and discounting future dividends. According to Gordon, forecasts of
dividends to be received in the distant future have greater uncertainty than do forecasts of
near-term dividends. Because the discount rate is positively related to the degree of uncer-
tainty surrounding dividends, the stock price should be low for those companies that pay
small dividends now in order to remit higher dividends at later dates.
Dividends are easier to predict than capital gains; however, it would be false to con-
clude that increased dividends can make the firm less risky. A firm’s overall cash flows are
not necessarily affected by dividend policy—as long as capital spending and borrowing are
not changed. It is hard to see how the risks of the overall cash flows can be changed with a
change in dividend policy.
512
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
23M. Gordon, The Investment, Financing, and Valuation of the Corporation (Homewood, Ill.: Richard D.
Irwin, 1961).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
519
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Tax Arbitrage
Miller and Scholes (MS) argue that a two-step procedure eliminates the taxes ordinarily due
on investments in high-yield securities.24 The MS strategy is as follows. First, buy stocks
with high dividend yields, borrowing enough of the purchase price so that the interest paid
is equal to the dividends received. The benefit of this strategy is that no taxes would be due
because dividends are taxable whereas interest is deductible. The problem with the strategy
is that the resulting position is quite risky due to the leverage involved. Second, to offset the
leverage, invest an amount equivalent to the debt already incurred in a tax-deferred account
(such as a Keogh account). Because income in a tax-deferred account avoids taxes, no taxes
are paid when the two steps are done simultaneously.
If enough investors are able to take advantage of the strategy, corporate managers need
not view dividends as tax-disadvantaged. Thus, only a slight preference for current income
and for resolution of uncertainty among investors causes responsive managers to provide
high dividends.
Agency Costs
Although stockholders, bondholders, and management form firms for mutually beneficial rea-
sons, one party may later gain at the other’s expense. For example, take the potential conflict
between bondholders and stockholders. Bondholders would like stockholders to leave as
much cash as possible in the firm so that this cash would be available to pay the bondholders
during times of financial distress. Conversely, stockholders would like to keep this extra cash
for themselves. That’s where dividends come in. Managers, acting on behalf of the stock-
holders, may pay dividends simply to keep the cash away from the bondholders. In other
words, a dividend can be viewed as a wealth transfer from bondholders to stockholders. There
is empirical evidence for this view of things. For example, DeAngelo and DeAngelo25 find
that firms in financial distress are reluctant to cut dividends. Of course, bondholders know of
the propensity of stockholders to transfer money out of the firm. To protect themselves, bond-
holders frequently create loan agreements stating that dividends can be paid only if the firm
has earnings, cash flow, and working capital above prespecified levels.
Although the managers may be looking out for the stockholders in any conflict with
bondholders, the managers may pursue selfish goals at the expense of stockholders in other
situations. For example, as discussed in Chapter 16, managers might pad expense accounts,
take on pet projects with negative NPVs, or, more simply, not work very hard. Managers
find it easier to pursue these selfish goals when the firm has plenty of free cash flow. After
all, one can not squander funds if the funds are not available in the first place. And, that is
where dividends come in. Several scholars have suggested that dividends can serve as a way
to reduce agency costs.26 By paying dividends equal to the amount of “surplus” cash flow,
a firm can reduce management’s ability to squander the firm’s resources. 
• What are the real-world factors favoring a high-dividend policy?
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
513
24M. Miller and M. Scholes, “Dividends and Taxes,” Journal of Financial Economics (December 1978).
25H. De Angelo and L. De Angelo, “Dividend Policy and Financial Distress: An Empirical Investigation of
Troubled NYSE Firms,” Journal of Finance 45 (1990).
26Michael Rozeff, “How Companies Set Their Dividend Payout Ratios,” in The Revolution in Corporate
Finance, edited by Joel M. Stern and Donald H. Chew (New York: Basel Blackwell, 1986). See also Robert S.
Hansen, Raman Kumar, and Dilip K. Shome, “Dividend Policy and Corporate Monitoring: Evidence from the
Regulated Electric Utility Industry,” Financial Management (Spring 1994).
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
520
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
18.8 A RESOLUTION OF REAL-WORLD FACTORS?
In the previous sections, we pointed out that the existence of personal taxes favors a low-
dividend policy after all positive NPV projects are taken, whereas other factors favor high div-
idends. The financial profession had hoped that it would be easy to determine which of these
sets of factors dominates. Unfortunately, after years of research, no one has been able to con-
clude which of the two is more important. Thus, the dividend-policy question is not resolved.
A discussion of two important concepts—the information content of dividends and the
clientele effect—will give the reader an appreciation of some of the relevant issues. The first
topic both illustrates the difficulty in interpreting empirical results on dividends and pro-
vides another reason for dividends. The second topic suggests that the dividend-payout ra-
tio may not be as important as we originally imagined.
Information Content of Dividends: A Brainteaser with
Practical Applications
The present topic is fascinating, because it is a brainteaser. To begin let us quickly review some
of our earlier discussion. Previously, we examined three different positions on dividends:
1. From the homemade-dividend argument of MM, dividend policy is irrelevant, given that
future earnings are held constant.
2. Because of tax effects, a firm’s stock price may be negatively related to the current div-
idend when future earnings are held constant.
3. Because of the desire for current income and related factors, a firm’s stock price may be
positively related to its current dividend, even when future earnings are held constant.
It has been empirically established that the price of a firm’s stock will generally rise
when its current dividend is increased and fall when its current dividend has been reduced
or omitted. For example, Asquith and Mullins estimate that stock prices rise about 3 per-
cent following announcements of dividend initiations. Healy and Palepu27 and Michaely,
Thaler, and Womack28 find that stock prices fall about 7 percent following announcements
of dividend omissions.
At first glance, this observation may seem consistent with position 3 and inconsistent
with positions 1 and 2. In fact, many writers have argued this. However, other authors have
countered that the observation itself is consistent with all three positions. They point out
that companies do not like to cut a dividend. Thus, firms will raise the dividend only when
future earnings, cash flow, and so on are expected to rise enough so that the dividend is not
likely to be reduced later to its original level. A dividend increase is management’s signal
to the market that the firm is expected to do well.
It is the expectation of good times, and not only the stockholder’s affinity for current
income, that raises stock price. The rise in the stock price following the dividend signal is
called the information-content effect of the dividend. To recapitulate, imagine that the
stock price is unaffected or negatively affected by the level of dividends, given that future
514
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
27P. Asquith and D. Mullins, Jr., “The Impact of Initiating Dividend Payments on Shareholder Wealth,” Journal
of Business (January 1983).
28P. M. Healy and K. G. Palepu, “Earnings Information Conveyed by Dividend Initiations and Omissions,”
Journal of Financial Economics 21 (1988); and R. Michaely, R. H. Thaler, and K. Womack, “Price Reactions to
Dividend Initiations and Omissions: Overreactions or Drift,” Journal of Finance 50 (1995).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
521
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
earnings are held constant. Nevertheless, the information-content effect implies that stock
price may rise when dividends are raised—if dividends simultaneously cause stockholders
to upwardly adjust their expectations of future earnings.
Several theoretical models of dividend policy incorporate managerial incentive to
communicate information via dividends.29 Here, dividends serve to signal to shareholders
the firm’s current and future performance.
The Clientele Effect
In the first part of this chapter we established the MM proposition that dividend policy is
irrelevant when certain conditions hold. Later sections dealt with those imperfections likely
to make dividend policy relevant. Because many imperfections were presented there, the
reader might be skeptical that the imperfections could cancel each other out so perfectly
that dividend policy would become irrelevant. However, the argument presented below sug-
gests the irrelevance of dividend policy in the real world.
Those individuals in high tax brackets are likely to prefer either no or low dividends.
We can classify low–tax-bracket investors into three types. First, there are individual in-
vestors in low brackets. They are likely to prefer some dividends if they desire current in-
come or favor resolution of uncertainty. Second, pension funds pay no taxes on either div-
idends or capital gains. Because they face no tax consequences, pension funds will also
prefer dividends if they have a preference for current income. Finally, corporations can ex-
clude at least 70 percent of their dividend income but cannot exclude any of their capital
gains. Thus, corporations would prefer to invest in high-dividend stocks, even without a de-
sire to resolve uncertainty or a preference for current income.
Suppose that 40 percent of all investors prefer high dividends and 60 percent prefer low
dividends, yet only 20 percent of firms pay high dividends while 80 percent pay low divi-
dends. Here, the high-dividend firms will be in short supply; thus their stock should be bid
up while the stock of low-dividend firms should be bid down.
However, the dividend policies of all firms need not be fixed in the long run. In this
example, we would expect enough low-dividend firms to increase their payout so that
40 percent of the firms pay high dividends and 60 percent of the firms pay low divi-
dends. After this has occurred, no type of firm will be better off from changing its 
dividend policy. Once payouts of corporations conform to the desires of stockholders,
no single firm can affect its market value by switching from one dividend strategy to
another.
Clienteles are likely to form in the following way:
Group
Stocks
Individuals in high tax brackets
Zero-to-low-payout stocks
Individuals in low tax brackets
Low-to-medium-payout stocks
Tax-free institutions
Medium-payout stocks
Corporations
High-payout stocks
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
515
29S. Bhattacharya, “Imperfect Information, Dividend Policy, and ‘the Bird in the Hand’ Fallacy,” Bell Journal of
Economics 10 (1979); S. Bhattacharya, “Nondissipative Signaling Structure and Dividend Policy,” Quarterly
Journal of Economics 95 (1980), p. 1; S. Ross, “The Determination of Financial Structure: The Incentive
Signalling Approach,” Bell Journal of Economics 8 (1977), p. 1; M. Miller and K. Rock, “Dividend Policy
under Asymmetric Information,” Journal of Finance (1985).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
522
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
An interesting case for the clientele effect on dividend policy is made by John Childs
of Kidder Peabody in the following exchange:30
Joseph T. Willet: John, you’ve been around public utilities for a good many years. Why do you
think that utilities have such high dividend payout ratios?
John Childs: They’re raising dividends so they can raise capital. . . . If you take the divi-
dends out of utilities today, you’ll never sell another share of stock. That’s how important it is.
In fact, if a few major utilities (with no special problems) cut their dividends, small investors
would lose faith in the utility industry and that would finish the sales of utility stocks.
John Childs (again): What you are trying to do with dividend policy is to enhance and
strengthen the natural interest of investors in your company. The type of stockholders you at-
tract will depend on the type of company you are. If you’re Genentech, you are going to attract
the type of stockholders who have absolutely no interest in dividends. In fact, you would hurt
the stockholders if you paid dividends. On the other hand, you go over to the other extreme
such as utilities’ and the yield bank’s stocks. There the stockholders are extremely interested in
dividends, and these dividends have an effect on market price.
However, despite the preceding exchange, a desire for dividends on the part of exist-
ing shareholders should not be sufficient to justify a high-dividend payout policy.
To see if you understand the clientele effect, consider the following question: “In spite
of the theoretical argument that dividend policy is irrelevant or that firms should not pay
dividends, many investors like high dividends. Because of this fact, a firm can boost its
share price by having a higher dividend payout ratio.” True or false?
The statement is likely to be false. As long as enough high-dividend firms satisfy dividend-
loving investors, a firm will not be able to boost its share price by paying high dividends. A
firm can boost its stock price only if an unsatisfied clientele exists. There is no evidence that
this is the case.
Our discussion on clienteles followed from the fact that tax brackets vary across in-
vestors. If shareholders care about taxes, stock should attract tax clienteles based on divi-
dend yield. This appears to be true. Surveys by Blume, Crockett, and Friend, and by
Lewellen, Stanley, Lease, and Schlarbaum in Table 18.3, show that stocks with the highest
dividend yields tend to be held by individual investors in low tax brackets.31
• Do dividends have information content?
• What are tax clienteles?
18.9 WHAT WE KNOW AND DO NOT KNOW ABOUT
DIVIDEND POLICY
Corporate Dividends Are Substantial
We pointed out earlier in the chapter that dividends are tax-disadvantaged relative to capi-
tal gains for two reasons. First, dividends are taxed at the ordinary income-tax rate, whereas
capital gains are taxed at a lower rate. Second, taxes on dividends are paid in the year in
516
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
30Joseph T. Willett, moderator, “A Discussion of Corporate Dividend Policy,” in Six Roundtable Discussions of
Corporate Finance with Joel Stern, ed. by D. H. Chew (New York: Basel Blackwell, 1986). The panelists
included Robert Litzenberger, Pat Hess, Bill Kealy, John Childs, and Joel Stern.
31M. Blume, J. Crockett, and I. Friend, “Stockownership in the United States: Characteristics and Trends,”
Survey of Current Business 54 (1974), p. 11. W. Lewellen, K. L. Stanley, R. C. Lease, and G. C. Schlarbaum,
“Some Direct Evidence on the Dividend Clientele Phenomenon,” Journal of Finance 33 (December 1978), p. 5.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
523
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
which the dividend is received while taxes on capital gains are deferred until the year of
sale. Nevertheless, dividends in the U.S. economy are substantial. For example, consider
Figure 18.7, which shows the ratio of aggregate dividends to aggregate earnings for firms
on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the American Stock Exchange (AMEX), and
NASDAQ over various time periods. The ratio is approximately 43 percent for the period
from 1963 to 1998. This ratio varies from a low of 33.95 percent in the 1973–77 period to
a high of 56.86 percent from 1988 to 1992. 
One might argue that the taxation on dividends is actually minimal, perhaps because
dividends are paid primarily to individuals in low tax brackets or because institutions such
as pension funds, which pay no taxes, are the primary recipients. However, Peterson,
Peterson and Ang32 conducted an in-depth study of dividends for one representative year,
1979. They found that about two-thirds of dividends went to individuals and that the aver-
age marginal tax bracket for these individuals was about 40 percent. Thus, we must con-
clude that large amounts of dividends are paid, even in the presence of substantial taxation.
Fewer Companies Pay Dividends
In a recent and fascinating paper, Fama and French33 (FF) point out that the percentage
of companies paying dividends has fallen in recent years. This insight is illustrated in Fig-
ure 18.8 for NYSE, AMEX, and NASDAQ firms. FF argue that the decline was caused
primarily by an explosion of small, currently unprofitable companies that have recently
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
517
I TABLE 18.3 Relationship between Dividend Yield and Marginal 
Tax Rate from Direct Observation of Individual
Investors’ Portfolios
Dividend Yield
Marginal Tax*
Decile
(% per annum)
Rate (%)
1
7.9%
36%
2
5.4
35
3
4.4
38
4
3.5
39
5
2.7
38
6
1.8
41
7
0.6
40
8
0.0
41
9
0.0
42
10
0.0
41
Stockholders in high marginal tax brackets buy securities with low-dividend yield and vice versa.
*Lewellen et al. use several alternative methods to calculate the marginal tax rate from data on income. The
results are broadly similar, and above we give the results for their “Tax-l” definition.
From W. Lewellen, K. L. Stanley, R. C. Lease, and G. C. Schlarbaum, “Some Direct Evidence on the Dividend
Clientele Phenomenon,” Journal of Finance 33 (December 1978), p. 5.
32P. Peterson, D. Peterson, and J. Ang, “Direct Evidence on the Marginal Rate of Taxation on Dividend
Income,” Journal of Financial Economics 14 (1985).
33E. F. Fama and K. R. French, “Disappearing Dividends: Changing Firm Characteristics or Lower Propensity
to Pay?,” Journal of Financial Economics (April 2001).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
524
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
listed on the different exchanges. For the most part, firms of this type do not pay divi-
dends. In addition, the authors argue that the percentage of firms of all types paying div-
idends has declined in recent years.
Corporations Smooth Dividends
In 1956, John Lintner34 made two important observations concerning dividend policy. First, real-
world companies typically set long-run target ratios of dividends to earnings. A firm is likely to
set a low target ratio if it has many positive NPV projects relative to available cash flow and a high
518
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Ratio of
Dividends
to Earnings
Year
1958
–62
1963
–67
1968
–72
1973
–77
1978
–82
1983
–87
1988
–92
43.27%
50.71%
47.29%
33.95%
34.86%
40.73%
56.86%
39.31%
1993
–98
I FIGURE 18.7 Ratio of Aggregate Dividends to Aggregate Earnings in the United States
34J. Lintner, “Distribution and Incomes of Corporations among Dividends, Retained Earnings and Taxes,”
American Economic Review (May 1956).
Corporations pay a significant amount of earnings out as dividends.
Source: Table 11 of E. F. Fama and K. R. French, “Disappearing Dividends: Changing Firm Characteristics or Lower Propensity to Pay,”
Journal of Financial Economics (Apr. 2001).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
525
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
ratio if it has few positive NPV projects. Second, managers know that only part of any change in
earnings is likely to be permanent. Because managers need time to assess the permanence of any
earnings rise, dividend changes appear to lag earnings changes by a number of periods.
Taken together, Lintner’s observations suggest that two parameters describe dividend
policy: the target payout ratio (t) and the speed of adjustment of current dividends to the tar-
get (s). Dividend changes will tend to conform to the following model:
Div1  Div0  s ⋅(tEPS1  Div0)
where Div1 and Div0 are dividends in the next year and dividends in the current year, re-
spectively. EPS1 is earnings per share in the next year.
The limiting cases occur when s  1 and s  0. If s  1, the actual change in dividends
will be equal to the target change in dividends. Here, the full adjustment occurs immediately.
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
519
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
NYSE
AMEX
NASDAQ
1962
1966
1970
1974
1978
1982
1986
1990
1994
1998
Percent
Year
I FIGURE 18.8 Percent of CRSP Firms Paying Dividends
Source: Figure 5 of E. F. Fama and K. R. French, “Disappearing Dividends: Changing Firm Characteristics or
Lower Propensity to Pay,” unpublished paper, Graduate School of Business, University of Chicago (March 1999).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
526
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
If s  0, Div1  Div0. In other words, there is no change in dividends at all. Real-world com-
panies can be expected to set s between 0 and 1.
An implication of Lintner’s model is that the dividends-to-earnings ratio rises when a
company begins a period of bad times, and the ratio falls when a company reaches a period
of good times. Thus, dividends display less variability than do earnings. In other words,
firms smooth dividends.
Dividends Provide Information to the Market
We previously observed that the price of a firm’s stock frequently rises when its current div-
idend is increased. Conversely, the price of a firm’s stock can fall significantly when its div-
idend is cut. In other words, there is information content in dividend changes. For example,
consider what happened to Pacific Enterprises a number of years ago. Faced with poor op-
erating results, Pacific Enterprises omitted its regular quarterly dividend. The next day the
common stock dropped from 247⁄8 to 187⁄8. One reason may be that investors are looking at
current dividends for clues concerning the level of future earnings and dividends.
A Sensible Dividend Policy
The knowledge of the finance profession varies across topic areas. For example, capital-
budgeting techniques are both powerful and precise. A single net-present-value equation
can accurately determine whether a multimillion dollar project should be accepted or re-
jected. The capital-asset-pricing model and the arbitrage-pricing model provide empirically
validated relationships between expected return and risk.
Conversely, the field has less knowledge of capital-structure policy. Though a number
of elegant theories relate firm value to the level of debt, no formula can be used to calculate
the firm’s optimum debt-equity ratio. Our profession is forced too frequently to employ
520
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
IN THEIR OWN WORDS
Anthony S. Thornley on Why Qualcomm Pays No Dividends
Q
ualcomm has consistently been able to generate for
its shareholders a significantly higher return than the
shareholders could get from being paid a dividend. It has
no “excess” cash for dividends. If Qualcomm paid a
dividend, our shareholders would view it very negatively.
Qualcomm would be saying, “We have run out of good
profit opportunities.” Our shareholders don’t like
dividends as much as they like the capital gains from
Qualcomm’s growth and profitability.
Anthony S. Thornley is Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of Qualcomm. Qualcomm trades on NASDAQ
and is part of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Its average
annual growth rate in earnings over the past five years has been
65 percent.
U
tility investors like dividends. Historically, Edison
International has paid out considerably more than
50 percent of its earnings as dividends. Investors have
viewed utilities such as Edison as defensive stocks where
dividends are a cushion against stock market volatility.
As a utility, Edison has had limited growth opportunities
and has been able to finance their growth out of retained
earnings and new stock. In 1994, Edison reduced its
dividend reflecting changes in the utility business and
Edison’s increasing participation in higher growth, nonu-
tility business.
Alan J. Fohrer is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of Edison International.
Alan J. Fohrer on Why Edison International Pays Dividends

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
527
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
rules of thumb, such as treating the industry’s average ratio as the optimal one for the firm.
The field’s knowledge of dividend policy is, perhaps, similar to its knowledge of capital-
structure policy. We do know that:
1. Firms should avoid having to cut back on positive NPV projects to pay a dividend, with
or without personal taxes.
2. Firms should avoid issuing stock to pay a dividend in a world with personal taxes.
3. Repurchases should be considered when there are few positive new investment oppor-
tunities and there is a surplus of unneeded cash.
The preceding recommendations suggest that firms with many positive NPV projects rela-
tive to available cash flow should have low payout ratios. Firms with fewer positive NPV
projects relative to available cash flow might want to consider higher payouts. In addition,
there is some benefit to dividend stability, and unnecessary changes in dividend payout are
avoided by most firms. However, there is no formula for calculating the optimal dividend-
to-earnings ratio. 
CASE STUDY:
How Firms Make the Decision to Pay Dividends:
The Case of Apple Computer
P
erhaps the most important dividend decisions a firm must make are when to pay dividends for
the first time and when to omit them once they have started.We study the case of Apple Com-
puter for clues to why firms pay dividends and later on omit them.
In 1976 two young friends, Stephen Wozniak and Steven Jobs, built the Apple I Computer in
Jobs’s garage in the “Silicon Valley” area of Northern California and founded Apple Computer, Inc.
The first Apple was built and sold without a monitor, or keyboard.The Apple II was introduced in
1977 and was targeted at the home and educational markets as a personal computer.The Apple II
was very successful, and by 1980 over 130,000 units had been sold and Apple’s revenues were $117
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
521
THE PROS AND CONS OF PAYING DIVIDENDS
Pros
Cons
1. Cash dividends can underscore good re-
sults and provide support to stock price.
2. Dividends may attract institutional in-
vestors who prefer some return in the
form of dividends. A mix of institutional
and individual investors may allow a firm
to raise capital at lower cost because of
the ability of the firm to reach a wider
market.
3. Stock price usually increases with the
announcement of a new or increased
dividend.
4. Dividends absorb excess cash flow and
may reduce agency costs that arise
from conflicts between management
and shareholders.
1. Dividends are taxed as ordinary income.
2. Dividends can reduce internal sources of
financing. Dividends may force the firm
to forgo positive NPV projects or to rely
on costly external equity financing.
3. Once established, dividend cuts are
hard to make without adversely affect-
ing a firm’s stock price.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
528
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
million. In 1980 Apple “went public” with an initial public offering (IPO) of common stock. Shortly
thereafter,Wozniak left Apple and John Scully was hired from Pepsi to become president.Apple did
not do well with its Lisa (1983) and Apple III computers, but the Macintosh (1984) was a huge hit—
primarily in the home and educational markets. In 1985, after a widely publicized struggle for power
with Scully, Jobs left to start another computer company called Next.
In many ways 1986 was a watershed year for Apple. By the end of 1986,Apple had revenues of
$1.9 billion and net income of $154 million.From 1980 to 1986 its annual growth rate in net income
was 53 percent. In 1986, with Mac Plus, Apple launched an aggressive effort to penetrate the ex-
panding office computer market—the domain of its main rival IBM. However, its future prospects
were not necessarily bright. Much depended on Apple’s ability to do well in the business market.
Competition was very intense in early 1987, and Sun Microsystems slashed the price of its least
costly computer workstation to try to stop encroachment by the Apple Mac. However,Apple sur-
prised everyone with large earnings gains in the final quarter of 1987 and by disclosing the fact that
the sales on Macintosh models had increased by 41 percent.
To demonstrate its faith in its future, to underscore the recent success of the Mac, and to at-
tract more institutional investors, on April 23, 1987,Apple declared its first ever quarterly dividend
of $.12 per share. It also announced a two-for-one stock split.The stock market reacted very posi-
tively to the announcement of  Apple’s initial dividend. On the day of the announcements, its stock
increased by $1.75. Over a four-day time span the stock rose by about 8 percent.
The initial dividend turned out to be a positive portent, and the next four years were good years
for Apple. At the end of 1990, Apple’s revenues,profits,and capital spending had achieved record highs.
Growth per Annum
Growth per Annum 
1986
1990
from 1986 to 1990
1997
from 1990 to 1997
Revenues (in millions)
$1,902
$5,558
31%
$7,081
4%
Net income (in millions)
154
475
33
379
NA
Capital spending (in millions)
66
223
36
63
16
Stock price
$
20
$
48
24
$
24
10
Long-term debt (in millions)
0
0
0
950
NA
Dividends per share
0
$ .45
0
100
Why do firms like Apple decide to pay dividends? There is no single answer to this question. In
Apple’s case, one part of the answer can be traced to Apple’s attempt to “signal” the stock market
about the potential growth and positive NPV prospects of its attempt to penetrate the office com-
puter market.The payment of dividends can also “ratify” good results.Apple’s initial dividend served
to convince the market that Apple’s success was not temporary.
Why did Apple announce a two-for-one stock split at the same time of its announcement of an
initial cash dividend? It is often said that a stock split without a cash dividend is like giving share-
holders two five-dollar bills for a $10 bill.Your wallet feels thicker but you are no better off. How-
ever, a stock split accompanied by a cash dividend can amplify the positive signal and pack a more
powerful message than would be true otherwise. In addition, firms sometimes split their shares, be-
cause they believe a low stock price may attract more individual investors and as a consequence in-
crease liquidity.However,the evidence is not clear on this point,and some firms like Berkshire Hath-
away disdain stock splits. (Its stock was recently selling at $67,000 a share.)
Was Apple’s decision to offer an initial dividend the best decision for the company? This is an
impossible question to answer precisely. However, the stock market’s positive reaction and Apple’s
subsequent performance suggest it was a good decision.Unfortunately,the years since 1990 have not
been as good for Apple. Its revenue growth has moderated and its profits have declined due to a dif-
ficult transition from a high-priced, high-quality producer of personal computers to a more compet-
itively priced producer. It experienced losses in 1996 and 1997.Apple’s small market share has be-
come a problem because software developers have been more interested in producing products that
could run on Intel-based machines.At the end of 1997,Apple’s stock price was at $24 per share—
lower than in 1990. In Figure 18.9, we plot Apple’s earnings per share and dividends per share from
522
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
529
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
1981 to 1997. As can be seen, dividend changes have tended to lag earnings changes. In 1992, when
earnings per share increased from $3.74 to $4.33 there was no change in dividend payouts. And
when in 1993,earnings per share declined to $2.45, Apple did not change its dividend payouts.How-
ever, Apple’s dividend was completely omitted in 1996.
Now we have another question, why did Apple omit its dividend in 1996? The firm had experi-
enced several market setbacks. It was forced to retreat from its much heralded “cloning” strategy. In
an important shift in strategic thinking, Apple had started licensing its Mac operating system to other
manufacturers. Unfortunately, instead of attracting new buyers, this policy was eroding its own base
and sales fell sharply. As a consequence, Apple experienced operating losses of $742 million in 1996
and $379 million in 1997.
Looking back at Figure 18.9, it can be seen that  Apple’s dividends have been more stable over
time than its earnings.This is typical of the dividend policy of most firms. Stability cannot be main-
tained forever in the face of huge operating losses and most companies ultimately slash dividends if
the losses continue.
Apple has not yet resumed its dividend, despite the fact that its earnings per share climbed to
$3.45 in 2000. Its recent stock price was $109—a record high. Current sales appear strong, espe-
cially for its iMac consumer product.The market has responded well to its iBook and Power Book
portables. A deal with EarthLink could make Apple the exclusive internet access provider bundled
with Macs. Now we ask the question: Should Apple resume its dividend payout?
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
523
1981 82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89 1990 91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99 2000
Year
6
4
2
0
2
4
6
8
Earnings per share
Dividends per share
Dollars
I FIGURE 18.9 Dividend Pattern of Apple Computer from 1983 to 2000

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
530
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
18.10 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1. The dividend decision is important because it determines the payout received by shareholders
and the funds retained by the firm for investment. Dividend policy is usually reflected by the
current dividend-to-earnings ratio. This is referred to as the payout ratio. Unfortunately, the
optimal payout ratio cannot be determined quantitatively. Rather, one can only indicate
qualitatively what factors lead to low- or high-dividend policies.
2. The dividend policy of the firm is irrelevant in a perfect capital market because the
shareholder can effectively undo the firm’s dividend strategy. If a shareholder receives a
greater dividend than desired, he or she can reinvest the excess. Conversely, if the
shareholder receives a smaller dividend than desired, he or she can sell off extra shares of
stock. This argument is due to MM and is similar to their homemade-leverage concept,
discussed in Chapter 15.
3. Even in a perfect capital market, a firm should not reject positive NPV projects to increase
dividend payments.
4. Although the MM argument is useful in introducing the topic of dividends, it ignores many
factors in practice. We show that personal taxes and new-issue costs are real-world
considerations that favor low dividend payouts. With personal taxes and new-issue costs, the firm
should not issue stock to pay a dividend. However, our discussion does not imply that all firms
should avoid dividends. Rather, those with high cash flow relative to positive NPV opportunities
might pay dividends due to legal constraints and/or a dearth of investment opportunities.
5. The expected return on a security is positively related to its dividend yield in a world with
personal taxes. This result suggests that individuals in low or zero tax brackets should
consider investing in high-yielding stocks. However, the result does not imply that firms
should avoid all dividends.
6. The general consensus among financial analysts is that the tax effect is the strongest argument
in favor of low dividends and the preference for current income is the strongest argument in
favor of high dividends. Unfortunately, no empirical work has determined which of these two
factors dominates, perhaps because the clientele effect argues that dividend policy is quite
responsive to the needs of stockholders. For example, if 40 percent of the stockholders prefer
low dividends and 60 percent prefer high dividends, approximately 40 percent of companies
will have a low dividend payout, and 60 percent will have a high payout. This sharply reduces
the impact of an individual firm’s dividend policy on its market price.
7. Research has shown that many firms appear to have a long-run target dividend-payout policy.
Firms that have few (many) positive NPV projects relative to available cash flow will have
high (low) payouts. In addition, firms try to reduce the fluctuations in the level of dividends.
There appears to be some value in dividend stability and smoothing.
8. The stock market reacts positively to increases in dividends (or an initial dividend payment)
and negatively to decreases in dividends. This suggests that there is information content in
dividend payments.
KEY TERMS
Clienteles
515
Homemade dividends
501
Date of payment
497
Information-content effect
514
Date of record
496
Regular cash dividends
495
Declaration date
496
Stock dividend
496
Ex-dividend date
496
Stock split
496
524
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
531
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
SUGGESTED READINGS
The breakthrough in the theory of dividend policy is contained in 
Miller, M., and F. Modigliani. “Dividend Policy, Growth and the Valuation of Shares.” Journal
of Business (October 1961).
A survey of dividend policy can be found in
Allen, Franklin, and Roni Michaely. “Dividend Policy.” In R. A. Jarrow, V. Maksimovic, and
W. T. Ziemba (eds.). Handbooks in Operations Research and Management Science:
Finance. Amsterdam: Elsevier Science (1995), 793–838.
Current trends in dividend policy are examined in
Fama, Eugene F., and Kenneth R. French. “Disappearing Dividends: Changing Firm
Characteristics or Lower Propensity to Pay?” (March 1999). Graduate School of Business,
University of Chicago, Unpublished paper.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
The Mechanics of Dividend Payouts
18.1 Identify and describe each of the following dates that are associated with a dividend
payment on common stock:
February 16
February 24
February 26
March 14
18.2 On April 5, the board of directors of Capital City Golf Club declared a dividend of $.75
per share payable on Tuesday, May 4, to shareholders of record as of Tuesday, April 20.
Suppose you bought 350 shares of Capital City stock on April 6 for $8.75 a share. Assume
there are no taxes, no transaction costs, and no news between your purchase and sale of the
stock. If you were to sell your stocks on April 16, how much would you be able to sell
your stock for?
18.3 The Mann Company belongs to a risk class for which the appropriate discount rate is 10
percent. Mann currently has 100,000 outstanding shares selling at $100 each. The firm is
contemplating the declaration of a $5 dividend at the end of the fiscal year that just began.
Answer the following questions based on the Miller and Modigliani model, which is
discussed in the text.
a. What will be the price of the stock on the ex-dividend date if the dividend is declared?
b. What will be the price of the stock at the end of the year if the dividend is not declared?
c. If Mann makes $2 million of new investments at the beginning of the period, earns net
income of $1 million, and pays the dividend at the end of the year, how many shares of
new stock must the firm issue to meet its funding needs?
d. Is it realistic to use the MM model in the real world to value stock? Why or why not?
18.4 On February 17, the board of directors of Exertainment Corp. declared a dividend of $1.25
per share payable on March 18 to all holders of record on March 1. All investors are in the
31-percent tax bracket.
a. What is the ex-dividend date?
b. Ignoring personal taxes, how much should the stock price drop on the ex-dividend date?
The Benchmark Case: An Illustration of the Irrelevance of Dividend Policy
18.5 The growing-perpetuity model expresses the value of a share of stock as the present value
of the expected dividends from that stock. How can you conclude that dividend policy is
irrelevant when this model is valid?
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
525

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
532
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
18.6 Andahl Corporation stock, of which you own 500 shares, will pay a $2-per-share dividend
one year from today. Two years from now Andahl will close its doors; stockholders will
receive liquidating dividends of $17.5375 per share. The required rate of return on Andahl
stock is 15 percent.
a. What is the current price of Andahl stock?
b. You prefer to receive equal amounts of money in each of the next two years. How will
you accomplish this?
18.7 The net income of Novis Corporation, which has 10,000 outstanding shares and a 100-
percent payout policy, is $32,000. The expected value of the firm one year hence is
$1,545,600. The appropriate discount rate for Novis is 12 percent.
a. What is the current value of the firm?
b. What is the ex-dividend price of Novis’s stock if the board follows its current policy?
c. At the dividend declaration meeting, several board members claimed that the dividend
is too meager and is probably depressing Novis’s price. They proposed that Novis sell
enough new shares to finance a $4.25 dividend.
i. Comment on the claim that the low dividend is depressing the stock price. Support
your argument with calculations.
ii. If the proposal is adopted, at what price will the new shares sell and how many will
be sold?
18.8 Gibson Co. has a current period cash flow of $1.2 million and pays no dividends, and the
present value of forecasted future cash flows is $15 million. It is an all-equity-financed
company with 1 million shares outstanding. Assume the effective personal tax rate is zero.
a. What is the share price of the Gibson stock?
b. Suppose the board of directors of Gibson Co. announces its plan to pay out 50 percent
of its current cash flow as cash dividends to its shareholders. How can Jeff Miller, who
owns 1,000 shares of Gibson stock, achieve a zero payout policy on his own?
Taxes, Issuances Costs, and Dividends
18.9 National Business Machine Co. (NBM) has $2 million of extra cash. NBM has two
choices to make use of this cash. One alternative is to invest the cash in financial assets.
The resulted investment income will be paid out as a special dividend at the end of three
years. In this case, the firm can invest in Treasury bills yielding 7 percent, or an 11
percent preferred stock. Only 30 percent of the dividends from investing in preferred
stock would be subject to corporate taxes. Another alternative is to pay out the cash as
dividends and let the shareholders invest on their own in Treasury bills with the same
yield. The corporate tax rate is 35 percent, and the individual tax rate is 31 percent.
Should the cash be paid today or in three years? Which of the two options generates the
highest after-tax income for the shareholders?
18.10 The University of Pennsylvania pays no taxes on capital gains, dividend income, or
interest payments. Would you expect to find low-dividend, high-growth stock in the
university’s portfolio? Would you expect to find tax-free municipal bonds in the portfolio?
18.11 In their 1970 paper on dividends and taxes, Elton and Gruber reported that the ex-
dividend–date drop in a stock’s price as a percentage of the dividend should equal the
ratio of 1 minus the ordinary income tax rate to 1 minus the capital gains rate; that is,
where
Pe  The ex-dividend stock price
Pb  The stock price before it trades ex-dividend
D  The amount of the dividend
To  The tax rate on ordinary income
Tc  The effective tax rate on capital gains
Pe  Pb
D
 1  To
1  Tc
526
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
533
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Note: As we pointed out in the text, effective tax rate of capital gains is less than the
actual tax rate, because their realization may be postponed. Indeed, because investors
could postpone their realizations indefinitely, the effective rate could be zero.
a. If To  Tc  0, how much will the stock’s price fall?
b. If To  0 and Tc  0, how much will it fall?
c. Explain the results you found in (a) and (b).
d. Do the results of Elton and Gruber’s study imply that firms will maximize shareholder
wealth by not paying dividends?
18.12 After completing its capital spending for the year, Carlson Manufacturing has $1,000
extra cash. Carlson’s managers must choose between investing the cash in Treasury
bonds that yield 8 percent or paying the cash out to investors who would invest in the
bonds themselves.
a. If the corporate tax rate is 35 percent, what tax rate on ordinary income would make
the investors equally willing to receive the dividend and to let Carlson invest the
money?
b. Is the answer to part (a) reasonable? Why or why not?
c. Suppose the only investment choice is stock that yields 12 percent. What personal
tax rate will make the stockholders indifferent to the outcome of Carlson’s dividend
decision?
d. Is this a compelling argument for a low dividend payout ratio? Why or why not?
Expected Return, Dividends, and Personal Taxes
18.13 A political advisory committee recently recommended wage and price controls to prevent
the spiraling inflation that was experienced in the 1970s. Members of the investment
community and several labor unions have sent the committee reports that discuss whether
or not dividends should be under the controls.
The reports from the investment community demonstrated that the value of a share
of stock is equal to the discounted value of its expected dividend stream. Thus, they
argued that any legislation that caps dividends will also hold down share prices, thereby
increasing companies’ costs of capital.
The union reports conceded that dividend policy is important to firms that are trying
to control costs. They also felt that dividends are important to stockholders, but only
because the dividend is the shareholder’s wage. In order to be fair, the unions argued, if
the government controls labor’s wage, it should also control dividends.
Discuss these arguments and explain the fallacy in them.
18.14 Deaton Co. and Grebe, Inc., are in the same risk class. Shareholders expect Deaton to
pay a $4 dividend next year when the stock will sell for $20. Grebe has a no-dividend
policy. Currently, Grebe stock is selling for $20 per share. Grebe shareholders expect
a $4 capital gain over the next year. Capital gains are not taxed, but dividends are
taxed at 25 percent.
a. What is the current price of Deaton Co. stock?
b. If capital gains are also taxed at 25 percent, what is the price of Deaton Co. stock?
c. Explain the result you found in part (b).
18.15 Payall Inc., Payless Inc., and Paynone Inc. are equally risky. They follow a 100-percent,
50-percent, and zero payout policy, respectively. The expected share prices at dates 0 and
1 for Paynone Inc. are $100 and $125. The market prices are set so that their after-tax
expected returns are equal. What should the current share prices of Payless Inc. and
Payall Inc. be? Assume the marginal personal tax rate on dividends is 25 percent, and the
effective tax rate on capital gain is zero.
18.16 Suppose the Du Pont Company currently has outstanding series 4.50, nonconvertible
preferred stock that pays an annual dividend of $4.50. Du Pont has also issued 11-percent
bonds that will mature in 10 years. The stock and bonds have about the same risk.
a. The current price of the 4.50 preferred stock is 50 1⁄2. What is its dividend yield?
b. The bonds were sold at par. What is their yield to maturity?
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
527

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
534
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
c. As a financial consultant, you want to know the after-tax yields for each of these
investments. The corporate tax rate is 34 percent and the personal tax rate is 28
percent. Compute the after-tax yields on Du Pont’s preferred stock and its bonds for
each of the following groups:
i. General Motors’s tax-exempt pension.
ii. General Motors Corporation.
d. Which group do you believe owns the most Du Pont stock?
Real-World Factors Favoring a High-Dividend Policy
18.17 The bird-in-the-hand argument, which states that a dividend today is safer than the
uncertain prospect of a capital gain tomorrow, is often used to justify high dividend-
payout ratios. Explain the fallacy behind the argument.
18.18 The desire for current income is not a valid explanation for preference for high-current-
dividend policy, as investors can always create homemade dividends by selling a portion
of their stocks. Comment.
18.19 Your aunt is in a high tax bracket and would like to minimize the tax burden of her
investment portfolio. She is willing to buy and sell in order to maximize her after-tax
returns and she has asked for your advice. What would you suggest she do?
A Resolution of Real-World Factors?
18.20 In the May 4, 1981, issue of Fortune, an article entitled “Fresh Evidence That Dividends
Don’t Matter” stated, “All told, 115 companies of the 500 [largest industrial corporations]
raised their payout every year during the period [1970–1989]. Investors in this . . . group
would have fared somewhat better than investors in the 500 as a whole: the median total
[annual compound] return of the 115 was 10.7% during the decade versus 9.4% for the 500.”
Is this evidence that investors prefer dividends to capital gains? Why or why not?
18.21 Last month Central Virginia Power Company, which had been having trouble with cost
overruns on a nuclear plant that it had been building, announced that it was “temporarily
suspending dividend payments due to the cash flow crunch associated with its investment
program.” When the announcement was made, the company’s stock price dropped from
28 1⁄2 to 25. What do you suspect caused the change in the stock price?
18.22 Southern Established Inc. has been paying out regular quarterly dividends ever since
1983. It just slashed the dividend by half in the current fiscal quarter and a more severe
cut is to be underway. Southern’s stock price dropped from $35.25 to $31.75 when the
dividend cut was announced. Explain the possible reasons for this price drop.
18.23 Cap Henderson owns Neotech stock because its price has been steadily rising over the
past few years and he expects its performance to continue. Cap is trying to convince
Widow Jones to purchase some Neotech stock, but she is reluctant because Neotech has
never paid a dividend. She depends on steady dividends to provide her with income.
a. What preferences are these two investors demonstrating?
b. What argument should Cap use to convince Widow Jones that Neotech stock is the
stock for her?
c. Why might Cap’s argument not convince Widow Jones?
18.24 If the market places the same value on $1 of dividends as on $1 of capital gains, then
firms with different payout ratios will appeal to different clienteles of investors. One
clientele is as good as another; therefore, a firm cannot increase its value by changing its
dividend policy. Yet empirical investigations reveal a strong correlation between dividend
payout ratios and other firm characteristics. For example, small, rapidly growing firms
that have recently gone public almost always have payout ratios that are zero; all earnings
are reinvested in the business. Explain this phenomenon if dividend policy is irrelevant.
18.25 In spite of the theoretical argument that dividend policy should be irrelevant, the fact
remains that many investors like high dividends. If this preference exists, a firm can boost
its share price by increasing its dividend-payout ratio. Explain the fallacy in this argument.
528
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
535
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
What We Know and Do Not Know about Dividend Policy
18.26 The Sharpe Co. has a period 0 dividend of $1.25. Its target payout ratio is 40 percent. The
period 1 EPS is expected to be $4.5.
a. If the adjustment rate is 0.3 as defined in the Lintner Model, what will be the Sharpe
Co. dividend in period 1?
b. If the adjustment rate is 0.6 instead, what is the dividend in period 1?
18.27 Empirical research found that there have been significant increases in stock price on the
day an initial dividend (i.e., the first time a firm pays a cash dividend) is announced.
What does this finding imply about the information content of initial dividends?
Appendix 18A STOCK DIVIDENDS AND STOCK SPLITS
In addition to the cash dividend, companies may issue stock dividends or split their stock.
Since stock dividends and stock splits are quite similar, we treat them together. We begin
with examples of these two strategies. Next, their benefits and costs to the firm are discussed.
Example of a Stock Dividend
Imagine a company with 10,000 shares of stock, each selling at $60. With a stock dividend
of 10 percent, each stockholder receives one additional share for each 10 that he or she orig-
inally owned. Therefore the total number of shares outstanding after the dividend is 11,000.
Note that the stockholders receive no cash and that each shareholder’s percentage of the to-
tal outstanding stock remains the same. Thus a case can be made that a stock dividend is of
no value to the firm. More will be said on this later.
Imagine that, before the stock dividend, the equity portion of the firm’s balance sheet
looks like this:
Common stock (par value set at $12 per share)
$120,000
Capital in excess of par value
200,000
Retained earnings
180,000
Total owner’s equity
$500,000
A seemingly arbitrary accounting procedure is used to adjust the balance sheet after
the stock dividend. Since 1,000 new shares are issued, $12,000 (1,000  $12) is trans-
ferred to common stock after the dividend. The market price of $60 is $48 above the par
value. Thus $48  1,000  $48,000 is shifted to the excess capital account. Because the
total value of owner’s equity is unchanged by a stock dividend, $60,000 is withdrawn from
retained earnings.
After the stock dividend, owner’s equity for the firm is represented as:
Common stock (par value set at $12 per share)
$132,000
Capital in excess of par value
248,000
Retained earnings
120,000
Total owner’s equity
$500,000
There is actually a good reason behind this procedure. Accountants fear that stock div-
idends could be used to impress a naive stockholder, even if the firm is doing poorly. This
type of accounting treatment limits this possibility, since a stock dividend can never be
greater than retained earnings.
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
529

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
536
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Example of a Stock Split
A stock split is similar conceptually to a stock dividend. In a three-for-one split, each share-
holder receives two additional shares of stock for each one held originally. Again, no cash
is paid out, and the percentage of the entire firm that each shareholder owns is unaffected.
However, the accounting of splits differs from the accounting of stock dividends. Imagine
in our previous example that a three-for-one-split occurs, raising the number of shares to
30,000. The owner’s equity after the split is represented as:
Common stock (30,000 shares with par value 
set at $4 per share)
$120,000
Capital in excess of par value
200,000
Retained earnings
180,000
Total owner’s equity
$500,000
Note that for three of the categories the figures on the right are completely unaffected by
the split. Only the par value is changed, being reduced here to $4 per share.
Since stock dividends and stock splits are similar, the dividing point between them is
arbitrary.
Value of Stock Splits and Stock Dividends
The laws of logic tell us that stock splits and stock dividends can (1) leave the firm’s value un-
affected, (2) increase the value of the firm, or (3) decrease its value. Unfortunately, the issues
are complex enough that one cannot easily determine which of the three relationships holds.
The Benchmark Case
A strong case can be made that stock dividends and splits do not change either the wealth
of any shareholder or the wealth of the firm as a whole. For example, imagine a firm with
$100 of earnings and 100 shares outstanding, implying EPS of $1. With a price-earnings ra-
tio of 10, the price per share is $10 and the total market value of the firm is $1,000. Now
imagine a 2-for-1 stock split where the number of shares rises to 200 and EPS falls to $0.50.
Given the same P/E ratio of 10, the value of each share of stock is now $5. However, with
twice the number of shares, the value of the entire firm is still $1,000. The wealth of each
stockholder remains the same since the doubling in the number of shares is offset by the
halving of the stock price. This result is sensible because (1) total earnings of the firm are
held constant, and (2) the percentage of the firm owned by each investor is unchanged.
The same results would hold for a stock dividend. Imagine that the total number of
shares is increased by 10 percent to 110. Given that EPS drops to $100/110  $0.90909,
the price per share should fall to $9.0909. Therefore the total value of the firm should re-
main at $1,000. The wealth of each stockholder should not change because, as with a split,
the percentage of the firm that each investor owns remains the same.
Although these results are relatively obvious, they are developed in the idealized world
of a perfect capital market. The typical financial manager is aware of many real-world com-
plexities, and for that reason the stock split or stock dividend decision is not treated lightly
in practice.
Popular Trading Range
Proponents of stock dividends and stock splits frequently argue that a security has a proper
trading range. When the security is priced above this level, many investors do not have the
funds to buy the common trading unit of 100 shares, called a round lot. Although securities
can be purchased in odd-lot form (fewer than 100 shares), the commissions are more ex-
pensive here. Thus firms will split the stock to keep its price in this trading range.
530
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
537
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Although this argument is a popular one, its validity has recently been questioned.35
Mutual funds, pension funds, and other institutions have steadily increased their trading ac-
tivity since World War II and now handle a sizable percentage of total trading volume.
Because these institutions can buy and sell in such huge amounts, they would not regard se-
curities in the popular trading range with any special favor. In fact, whether because of the
rise of institutions or some other factor, odd-lot trades comprise a quite small proportion of
the market today.
Costs with Stock Splits or Stock Dividends
The reasoning in the previous paragraph minimizes the benefits of a stock split or dividend.
In addition, some authors state that there are costs associated with these financial proce-
dures. For example, Copeland argues that two types of transaction costs rise following a
stock split. He further reasons that both of these cost increases ultimately reduce the liq-
uidity of the stock, an unexpected result because a rise in liquidity through a broadening of
the stockholder base often is given as a reason for a split.36
Copeland finds that brokerage fees, measured in percentages, increase after a split.
This result is not surprising, since most published price lists of commissions show that bro-
kerage fees for low-priced securities are a larger percentage of sales price than they are for
high-priced securities. For example, commissions are generally higher for 400 shares of a
security selling at $10 than for 100 shares of a security selling at $40.
The bid-ask spread is the difference between the price at which you sell a security to a
dealer and the price at which you buy a security from a dealer. For example, a bid-ask spread
of 49 1/2–50 means that an individual can sell a share to the dealer at $49.50 and buy a share
at $50, implying a round-trip loss to the investor of $0.50. Copeland finds that the bid-ask
spread, expressed as a percentage of sales price, rises after a stock split. This finding is con-
sistent with other work showing that the bid-ask spread is higher in percentage terms for
lower-proceed securities.37 The data suggest that the benefits to the stockholder associated
with a stock dividend or stock split are not clearly greater than the costs to him.
Reverse Split
A less frequently encountered financial maneuver is the reverse split. In a one-for-three re-
verse split, each investor exchanges three old shares for one new share. The par value is
tripled in the process. As mentioned previously with stock splits and stock dividends, a case
can be made that, in a theoretical model, a reverse split changes nothing substantial about
the company.
Given real-world imperfections, three related reasons are cited for reverse splits. First,
transactions costs to shareholders are often less after the reverse split. This follows the con-
clusions of Copeland that brokerage commissions per dollar traded rise as the price of the
stock falls. Second, the liquidity and marketability of a company’s stock are improved when
its price is raised to the “popular trading range.” Third, stocks selling below a certain level
are not considered “respectable,” implying that investors bias downward their estimates of
these firms’ earnings, cash flow, growth, and stability. Some financial analysts argue that a
reverse split can achieve instant respectability.
Chapter 18
Dividend Policy: Why Does It Matter?
531
35For example, see T. Copeland, “Liquidity Changes Following Stock Splits,” Journal of Finance (March 1979).
36Although Copeland’s empirical work included only stock splits, the same factors should apply to the stock
dividend case.
37See H. Demsetz, “The Cost of Transacting,” Quarterly Journal of Economics 82 (February 1968); and H.
Stoll, “The Supply of Dealer Services in Securities Markets,” Journal of Finance 33 (September 1978).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
IV. Capital Structure and 
Dividend Policy
18. Dividend Policy: Why 
Does It Matter?
538
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
• What is a stock dividend? A stock split?
• What are the values of a stock dividend and a stock split?
KEY TERMS
Reverse split
531
Trading range
530
SUGGESTED READING
New evidence on how the market reacts to stock splits and stock dividends is in
Ranking, G., and Earl Stice. “The Market Reaction to the Choice of Accounting Method for
Stock Splits and Large Stock Dividends.” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis
(June 1997).
532
Part IV
Capital Structure and Dividend Policy
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
Introduction
539
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Long-Term Financing
PART V
19 Issuing Securities to the Public 534
20 Long-Term Debt 563
21 Leasing 586
P
ART IV discussed capital structure; we determined the relationship between the
firm’s debt-equity ratio and the firm’s value. The debt we used in Part IV was styl-
ized. In fact, there are many different types of debt. In Part V we discuss how financial
managers choose the type of debt that makes the most sense, including straight debt, debt
with options, and leasing.
In Chapter 19 we describe the ways firms sell securities to the public. In general, a
public issue can be sold as a general cash offer to investors at large, as a privately placed
issue with a few institutions, or as a privileged subscription (in the case of equities). We
describe the features of these methods and point out some puzzling trends.
In Chapter 20 we describe some basic features of long-term debt. One of the spe-
cial features of most long-term bonds is that they can be called by the firms before the
maturity date. We try to explain why call provisions exist. There are many types of long-
term debt, including floating-rate bonds, income bonds, and original-issue discount
bonds. We discuss why they exist.
Chapter 21 describes a special form of long-term debt called leasing. In general, a
rental agreement that lasts for more than one year is a lease. Leases are a source of fi-
nancing and displace debt in the balance sheet. Many silly reasons are given for leasing,
and we present some of them. The major reason for long-term leasing is to lower taxes.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
540
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Issuing Securities 
to the Public
CHAPTER 19
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
T
his chapter looks at how corporations issue securities to the investing public. The
general procedures for debt and equity are quite similar. This chapter focuses on eq-
uity, but the procedures for debt and equity are basically the same.
Before securities can be traded on a securities market, they must be issued to the pub-
lic. A firm making an issue to the public must satisfy requirements set out in various federal
legislation and statutes and enforced by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In
general, investors must be given all material information in the form of a registration state-
ment and prospectus. In the first part of this chapter we discuss what this entails.
A public issue of equity can be sold directly to the public with the help of underwrit-
ers. This is called a general cash offer. Alternatively, a public equity issue can be sold to the
firm’s existing stockholders by what is called a rights offer. This chapter examines the dif-
ference between a general cash offer and a rights offer.
Stock of companies going public for the first time is typically underpriced. We describe
this unusual phenomenon and provide a possible explanation.
19.1 THE PUBLIC ISSUE
The basic steps in a public offering are depicted in Table 19.1. The Securities Act of 1933
sets forth the federal regulation for all new interstate securities issues. The Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 is the basis for regulating securities already outstanding. The SEC ad-
ministers both acts.
The Basic Procedure for a New Issue
1. Management’s first step in any issue of securities to the public is to obtain approval
from the board of directors.
2. Next, the firm must prepare and file a registration statement with the SEC. This state-
ment contains a great deal of financial information, including a financial history, details of the
existing business, proposed financing, and plans for the future. It can easily run to 50 or more
pages. The document is required for all public issues of securities with two principal exceptions:
a. Loans that mature within nine months.
b. Issues that involve less than $5.0 million.
The second exception is known as the small-issues exemption. Issues of less than $5.0
million are governed by Regulation A, for which only a brief offering statement—rather
than the above registration statement—is needed. For Regulation A to be operative, no more
than $1.5 million may be sold by insiders.
3. The SEC studies the registration statement during a waiting period. During this
time, the firm may distribute copies of a preliminary prospectus. The preliminary prospec-
tus is called a red herring because bold red letters are printed on the cover. A prospectus

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
541
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
contains much of the information put into the registration statement, and it is given to po-
tential investors by the firm. The company cannot sell the securities during the waiting pe-
riod. However, oral offers can be made.
A registration statement will become effective on the 20th day after its filing unless the
SEC sends a letter of comment suggesting changes. After the changes are made, the 20-day
waiting period starts anew.
4. The registration statement does not initially contain the price of the new issue. On
the effective date of the registration statement, a price is determined and a full-fledged sell-
ing effort gets under way. A final prospectus must accompany the delivery of securities or
confirmation of sale, whichever comes first.
5. Tombstone advertisements are used during and after the waiting period. An exam-
ple is reproduced in Figure 19.1.
• Describe the basic procedures in a new issue.
• What is a registration statement?
19.2 ALTERNATIVE ISSUE METHODS
When a company decides to issue a new security, it can sell it as a public issue or a private
issue. If it is a public issue, the firm is required to register the issue with the SEC. If the is-
sue is sold to fewer than 35 investors, it can be treated as a private issue. A registration state-
ment is not required in this case.1
There are two kinds of public issues: the general cash offer and the rights offer. Cash of-
fers are sold to all interested investors, and rights offers are sold to existing shareholders. Equity
is sold by both the cash offer and the rights offer, though almost all debt is sold by cash offer.
Chapter 19
Issuing Securities to the Public
535
I TABLE 19.1 The Process of Raising Capital
Steps in Public Offering
Time
Activities
1. Preunderwriting 
Several months
The amount of money to be raised and the type of security 
conferences
to be issued are discussed. The underwriting syndicate
and selling group are put together. The underwriting
contract is negotiated. Board approval is obtained.
2. Registration statements 
A 20-day waiting period
The registration statement contains all relevant financial 
filed and approved
and business information.
3. Pricing the issue
Usually not before the last 
For seasoned offerings the price is set close to the 
day of the registration 
prevailing market price. For initial public offerings 
period
intensive research and analysis are required.
4. Public offering and sale
Shortly after the last day 
In a typical firm commitment contract, the underwriter 
of the registration 
buys a stipulated amount of stock from the firm and sells 
period
it at a higher price. The selling group assists in the sale.
5. Market stabilization
Usually 30 days after the 
The underwriter stands ready to place orders to buy at a 
offering
specified price on the market.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?
1However, regulation significantly restricts the resale of unregistered securities. The purchaser must hold the
securities at least two years.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
542
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
536
Part V
Long-Term Financing
58,750,000 Shares
Consolidated Rail Corporation
Common Stock
(per value $1.00 per share)
Price $28 Per Share
The shares are being sold by the United States Government pursuant to the Conrail
Privatization Act. The Company will not receive any proceeds from the sale of the shares.
Upon request, a copy of the Prospectus describing these securities and the business of the
Company may be obtained within any state from any Underwriter who may legally distribute
it within such State. The securities are offered only by means of the Prospectus, and this
announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of any offer to buy.
52,000,000 Shares
This portion of the offering is being offered in the United States and Canada by the undersigned.
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
The First Boston Corporation
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets
Morgan Stanley & Co.
Salomon Brothers Inc.
Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc.
Alex, Brown & Sons
Dillion, Read & Co. Inc.
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette
Drexel Burnham Lambert
Hambrecht & Quist
E.F. Hutton & Company Inc.
Kidder, Peabody & Co.
Lazard Freres & Co.
Montgomery Securities
Prudential-Bache Capital Funding
Robertson, Colman & Stephens
L.F. Rothschild, Unterberg, Towbin, Inc.
Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co.
Wertheim Schroder & Co.
Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
William Blair & Company
J.C. Bradford & Co.
Dain Bosworth
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.
McDonald & Co.
Oppenheimer & Co., Inc.
Piper, Jaffray & Hopwood
Prescott, Ball & Turben, Inc.
Thomson McKinnon Securities Inc.
Wheat, First Securities, Inc.
Advest, Inc.
American Securities Corporation
Arnhold and S. Bleichroeder, Inc.
Robert W. Baird & Co.
Bateman Eichier, Hill Richards
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., Inc.
Blunt Ellis & Loewi
Boettcher & Company, Inc.
Burns Fry and Timmins Inc.
Butcher & Singer Inc.
Cowen & Company
Dominion Securities Corporation
Eberstadt Fleming Inc.
Eppler, Guerin & Tuner, Inc.
First of Michigan Corporation
First Southwest Company
Furman Seiz Mager Dietz & Birney
Gruntal & Co., Incorporated
Howard, Well, Labouisse, Friedrichs
Interstate Securities Corporation
Janney Montgomery Scott Inc.
Johnson, Lane, Space, Smith & Co., Inc.
Jonston, Lemon & Co.
Josephthal & Co.
Ladenburg, Thalman & Co.
Cyrus J. Lawrence
Legg Mason Wood Walker
Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc.
Moseley Securities Corporation
Needham & Company, Inc.
Neuberger & Berman
The Ohio Company
Rauscher Pierce Refsnes, Inc.
The Robinson-Humphrey Company, Inc.
Rothschild Inc.
Stephens Inc.
Stifel, Nicolaus & Company
Sutro & Co.
Tucker, Anthony & R. L. Day, Inc.
Underwood, Neuhaus & Co.
Wood Gundy Corp.
This special bracket of minority-owned and controlled firms assisted the Co-Lead
Managers in the United States Offering pursuant to the Conrail Privatization Act.
AIBC Investment Services Corporation
Daniels & Bell, Inc.
Doley Securities, Inc.
WR Lazard Securities Corporations
Pryon, Govan, Counts & Co. Inc.
Muriel Siebert & Co., Inc.
6,750,000 Shares
This Portion of the offering is being offered outside the United States and Canada by the undersigned.
Goldman Sachs International Corp.
First Boston International Limited
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets
Morgan Stanley International
Salomon Brothers International Limited
Shearson Lehman Brothers International
Algemene Bank Nederland N.V.
Banque Bruxelles Lambert S.A.
Banque Nationale de Paris
Cazenove & Co.
The Nikko Securities Co., (Europe) Ltd.
Nomura International
N. M. Rothschild & Sons
J. Henry Schroder Wagg & Co.
Soclété Générate
S. G. Warburg Securities
ABC International Ltd.
Banque Paribas Capital Markets Limited
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
Campagnie de Banque et dinvestissements, CBI
Crédit Lyonnais
Daiwa Europe
IMI Capital Markets (UK) Ltd.
Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co.
Leu Securities Limited
Morgan Grenfell & Co.
Peterbroeck, van Campenhout & Cie SCS
Swiss Volksbank
Vereins- und Westbank
J. Vontobel & Co. Ltd
M.M. Warburg-Brinckmann, Wirtz & Co.
Westdeutsche Landesbank
Yamaichi International (Europe)
March 27, 1987
Incorporated
Securities Corporation
Incorporated
Incorporated
Incorporated
Incorporated
Incorporated
Incorporated
Incorporated
Securities, Inc.
Incorporated
Limited
Limited
Limited
Limited
Limited
Aktiengesellschaft
Girozentrale
Limited
Incorporated
Incorporated
Incorporated
Incorporated
Incorporated
Incorporated
Incorporated
Incorporated
Incorporated
Incorporated
Incorporated
Incorporated
Incorporated
I FIGURE 19.1 An Example of a Tombstone Advertisement

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
543
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The first public equity issue that is made by a company is referred to as an initial 
public offering (IPO) or an unseasoned new issue. All initial public offerings are cash
offers because, if the firm’s existing shareholders wanted to buy the shares, the firm would
not need to sell them publicly. More than $5 billion was raised in 116 IPOs in 1994. A 
seasoned new issue refers to a new issue where the company’s securities have been pre-
viously issued. A seasoned new issue of common stock may be made by using a cash of-
fer or a rights offer.
These methods of issuing new securities are shown in Table 19.2 and discussed in the
next few sections.
19.3 THE CASH OFFER
As mentioned above, stock is sold to all interested investors in a cash offer. If the cash of-
fer is a public one, investment banks are usually involved. Investment banks are financial
intermediaries who perform a wide variety of services. In addition to aiding in the sale of
securities, they may facilitate mergers and other corporate reorganizations, act as brokers
to both individual and institutional clients, and trade for their own accounts. You may very
well have heard of large Wall Street investment banking houses such as Goldman Sachs,
Merrill Lynch, and Salomon Smith Barney. Table 19.3 lists the leading investment bankers
for U.S. public security offerings.
For corporate issuers, investment bankers perform services such as the following:
Formulating the method used to issue the securities.
Pricing the new securities.
Selling the new securities.
Chapter 19
Issuing Securities to the Public
537
I TABLE 19.2 The Methods of Issuing New Securities
Method
Type
Definition
Public
Traditional 
Firm-commitment 
Company negotiates an agreement with an investment banker to 
negotiated 
cash offer
underwrite and distribute the new stocks or bonds. A specified  
cash offer
number of shares is bought by underwriters and sold at a higher price.
Best-efforts cash offer
Company has investment bankers sell as many of the new shares as 
possible at the agreed-upon price. There is no guarantee concerning 
how much cash will be raised.
Privileged 
Direct rights offer
Company offers new stock directly to its existing shareholders.
subscription
Standby rights offer
Like the direct rights offer, this contains a privileged subscription 
arrangement with existing shareholders. The net proceeds are
guaranteed by the underwriters.
Nontraditional 
Shelf cash offer
Qualifying companies can authorize all shares they expect to sell over a 
cash offer
two-year period and sell them when needed.
Competitive firm cash offer
Company can elect to award underwriting contract through a public 
auction instead of negotiation.
Private
Direct placement
Securities are sold directly to purchaser, who cannot resell securities for 
at least two years.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
544
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
There are two basic methods of issuing securities for cash.
1. Firm commitment. Under this method, the investment bank (or a group of investment
banks) buys the securities for less than the offering price and accepts the risk of not being able to
sell them. Because this function involves risk, we say that the investment banker underwrites the
securities in a firm commitment. In other words, when participating in a firm-commitment of-
fering, the investment banker acts as an underwriter. (Because firm commitments are so preva-
lent, we will use investment banker and underwriter interchangeably in this chapter.)
To minimize the risks here, investment bankers combine to form an underwriting group
(syndicate) to share the risk and to help sell the issue. In such a group, one or more man-
agers arrange or co-manage the deal. The manager is designated as the lead manager or prin-
cipal manager. The lead manager typically has responsibility for all aspects of the issue. The
other investment bankers in the syndicate serve primarily to sell the issue to their clients.
The difference between the underwriter’s buying price and the offering price is called
the spread or discount. It is the basic compensation received by the underwriter. Sometimes
the underwriter will get noncash compensation in the form of warrants or stock in addition
to the spread.
Firm-commitment underwriting is really just a purchase-sale arrangement, and the syndi-
cate’s fee is the spread. The issuer receives the full amount of the proceeds less the spread, and
all the risk is transferred to the underwriter. If the underwriter cannot sell all of the issue at the
agreed-upon offering price, it may need to lower the price on the unsold shares. However, be-
cause the offering price usually is not set until the underwriters have investigated how recep-
tive the market is to the issue, this risk is usually minimal. This is particularly true with sea-
soned new issues because the price of the new issue can be based on prior trades in the security.
2. Best efforts. The underwriter bears risk with a firm commitment because it buys the
entire issue. Conversely, the syndicate avoids this risk under a best-efforts offering because
it does not purchase the shares. Instead, it merely acts as an agent, receiving a commission
for each share sold. The syndicate is legally bound to use its best efforts to sell the securi-
ties at the agreed-upon offering price. If the issue cannot be sold at the offering price, it is
usually withdrawn.
This form is more common for initial public offerings than for seasoned new issues. In
addition, a recent study by Jay Ritter shows that best-efforts offerings are generally used for
small IPOs and firm-commitment offerings are generally used for large IPOs. His results
are reproduced in our Table 19.4. The last column in the table best illustrates his finding.
538
Part V
Long-Term Financing
I TABLE 19.3 The Leading U.S. Underwriters—1997
Top Underwriters of U.S. Debt and Equity
Manager
Merrill Lynch
Salomon Smith Barney
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter
Goldman, Sachs
Lehman Brothers
JP Morgan
Credit Suisse First Boston
Bear, Stearns
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette
Chase Manhattan

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
545
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
For either firm-commitment or best-efforts issues, the principal underwriter is permit-
ted to buy shares if the market price falls below the offering price. The purpose is to sup-
port the market and stabilize the price from temporary downward pressure. If the issue re-
mains unsold after a time (for example, 30 days), members may leave the group and sell
their shares at whatever price the market will allow.
Many underwriting contracts contain a Green Shoe provision, which gives the mem-
bers of the underwriting group the option to purchase additional shares at the offering
price.2 The stated reason for the Green Shoe option is to cover excess demand and over-
subscription. Green Shoe options usually last for about 30 days and involve no more than
15 percent of the newly issued shares. The Green Shoe option is a benefit to the underwrit-
ing syndicate and a cost to the issuer. If the market price of the new issue goes above the
offering price within 30 days, the underwriters can buy shares from the issuer and immedi-
ately resell the shares to the public.
Investment Banks
Investment banks are at the heart of new security issues. They provide advice, market the
securities (after investigating the market’s receptiveness to the issue), and underwrite the
proceeds. They accept the risk that the market price may fall between the date the offering
price is set and the time the issue is sold.
In addition, investment banks have the responsibility of pricing fairly. When a firm
goes public, particularly for the first time, the buyers know relatively little about the firm’s
operations. After all, it is not rational for a buyer of, say, only 1,000 shares of stock to study
the company at length. Instead, the buyer must rely on the judgment of the investment bank,
who has presumably examined the firm in detail. Given this asymmetry of information,
what prevents the investment banker from pricing the issued securities too high? While the
underwriter has a short-run incentive to price high, it has a long-run incentive to make sure
that its customers do not pay too much; they might desert the underwriter in future deals if
they lose money on this one. Thus, as long as investment banks plan to stay in business over
time, it is in their self-interest to price fairly.
Chapter 19
Issuing Securities to the Public
539
I TABLE 19.4 Initial Public Offerings of Stock Categorized by 
Gross Proceeds: 1977–1982
All
Firm
Best
Fraction
Gross Proceeds ($)
Offerings
Commitment
Efforts
Best Efforts
100,000–1,999,999
243
68
175
0.720
2,000,000–3,999,999
311
165
146
0.469
4,000,000–5,999,999
156
133
23
0.147
6,000,000–9,999,999
137
122
15
0.109
10,000,000–120,174,195
180
176
4
0.022
All offerings
1,027
664
363
0.353
From J. R. Ritter, “The Costs of Going Public,” Journal of Financial Economics 19 (1987). © Elsevier Science
Publishers B. V. (North-Holland).
2The Green Shoe Corp. was the first firm to allow this provision.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
546
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
In other words, financial economists argue that each investment bank has a reservoir of
“reputation capital.”3 Mispricing of new issues, as well as unethical dealings, is likely to re-
duce this reputation capital.
One measure of this reputation capital is the pecking order among the investment
banks. MBA students are aware of this order because they know that accepting a job with
a top-tier firm is universally regarded as more prestigious than accepting a job with a lower-
tier firm. This pecking order can be seen in Figure 19.1. The investment banks listed diag-
onally in the figure are considered the most prestigious. These appear alphabetically so that
one cannot distinguish the relative status of these firms from the figure. The next set of
firms, running from Alex. Brown & Sons to Dean Witter Reynolds, is also in alphabetical
order. By noting when the alphabetical order begins anew, one can determine the number
of firms in each tier.
Investment banks put great importance in their relative rankings and view downward
movement in their placement with much distaste. While this jockeying for position may
seem as unimportant as the currying of royal favor in the court of Louis XVI, it is explained
by the above discussion. In any industry where reputation is so important, the firms in the
industry must guard theirs with great vigilance.
540
Part V
Long-Term Financing
IN THEIR OWN WORDS
Robert S. Hansen on The Economic Rationale for the Firm Commitment Offer
U
nderwriters provide four main functions: certifica-
tion, monitoring, marketing, and risk bearing.
Certification assures investors that the offer price is
fair. Investors have concerns about whether the offer
price is unfairly above the stock’s intrinsic value. Certifi-
cation increases issuer value by reducing investor doubt
about fairness, making a better offer price possible.
Monitoring of issuing firm management and perform-
ance builds value because it adds to shareholders’
ordinary monitoring. Underwriters provide collective
monitoring on behalf of both capital suppliers and
current shareholders. Individual shareholder monitoring
is limited because the shareholder bears the entire cost,
whereas all owners collectively share the benefit, pro
rata. By contrast, in underwriter monitoring all stock-
holders share both the costs and benefits, pro rata.
Due diligence and legal liability for the proceeds give
investors assurance. However, what makes certification
and monitoring credible is lead bank reputation in
competitive capital markets, where they are disciplined
over time. Evidence that irreputable behavior is damaging
to a bank’s future abounds. Capital market participants
punish poorly performing banks by refusing to hire them.
The participants pay banks for certification and mean-
ingful monitoring in “quasi-rents” in the spread, which
represent the fair cost of “renting” the reputations.
Marketing is finding long-term investors who can be
persuaded to buy the securities at the offer price. This
would not be needed if demand for new shares were
“horizontal.” There is much evidence that issuers and
syndicates repeatedly invest in costly marketing
practices, such as expensive road shows to identify and
expand investor interest. Another is organizing members
to avoid redundant pursuit of the same customers. Lead
banks provide trading support in the issuer’s stock for
several weeks after the offer.
Underwriting risk is like the risk of selling a put
option. The syndicate agrees to buy all new shares at the
offer price and resell them at that price or at the market
price, whichever is lower. Thus, once the offer begins,
the syndicate is exposed to potential losses on unsold
inventory should the market price fall below the offer
price. The risk is likely to be small, because offerings are
typically well prepared for quick sale.
3For example, see R. Carter and S. Manaster, “Initial Public Offerings and Underwriter Reputation,”
unpublished Iowa State and University of Utah working paper (1988); and R. Beatty and J. Ritter, “Investment
Banking, Reputation and the Underpricing of Initial Public Offerings,” Journal of Financial Economics (1986).
Robert S. Hansen is the Freeman Senior Research Professor of Finance at Tulane University.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
547
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
There are two basic methods for selecting the syndicate. In a competitive offer, the
issuing firm can offer its securities to the underwriter bidding highest. In a negotiated
offer, the issuing firm works with one underwriter. Because the firm generally does not
negotiate with many underwriters concurrently, negotiated deals may suffer from lack
of competition.
While competitive bidding occurs frequently in other areas of commerce, it may sur-
prise you that negotiated deals in investment banking occur with all but the largest issuing
firms. Investment bankers argue that they must expend much time and effort learning about
the issuer before setting an issue price and a fee schedule. Except in the case of large issues,
these underwriters could not expend the time and effort without the near certainty of re-
ceiving the contract.
Studies generally show that issuing costs are higher in negotiated deals than in com-
petitive ones. However, many financial economists argue that issuing firms are not neces-
sarily hurt by negotiated deals. They point out that the underwriter gains much information
about the issuing firm through negotiation, information likely to increase the probability of
a successful offering.4
The Offering Price
Determining the correct offering price is the most difficult thing the lead investment bank
must do for an initial public offering. The issuing firm faces a potential cost if the offering
price is set too high or too low. If the issue is priced too high, it may be unsuccessful and
be withdrawn. If the issue is priced below the true market price, the issuer’s existing share-
holders will experience an opportunity loss.
Ibbotson has found that unseasoned new equity issues typically have been offered at
11 percent below their true market price.5 Underpricing helps new shareholders earn a
higher return on the shares they buy. However, the existing shareholders of the issuing
firm are not necessarily helped by underpricing. To them it is an indirect cost of issuing
new securities.
Several studies have confirmed the early research of Ibbotson. For example, Ritter ex-
amined approximately 1,030 firms that went public from 1977 through 1982 in the United
States.6 He finds that the average firm-commitment IPO rose in price 14.8 percent in the first
day of trading following issuance. The comparable figure is 47.8 percent for best-efforts
IPOs. These figures are not annualized! Both of these results are clearly consistent with sub-
stantial underpricing.
Another recent dramatic example of underpricing came with the IPO of Shiva
Corporation. Shiva makes hardware and software that allow desktop and laptop computers
to hook directly into a local area network from outside the office. The initial offering, on
November 18, 1994, of 2.76 million shares priced at $15 rose $161⁄2 to $311⁄2 by the end of
the first trading day. Goldman Sachs, head of the underwriting syndicate that underwrote
Chapter 19
Issuing Securities to the Public
541
4This choice has been studied recently by Robert S. Hansen and Naveen Khanna, “Why Negotiation with a
Single Syndicate May Be Preferred to Making Syndicates Compete: The Problem of Trapped Bidders,” Journal
of Business 67 (1994) and S. Bhagat, “The Effect of Management’s Choice between Negotiated and
Competitive Equity Offerings on Shareholder Wealth,” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (1986);
and D. Logue and R. Jarrow, “Negotiation vs. Competitive Bidding in the Sales of Securities by Public
Utilities,” Financial Management 7 (1978).
5R. Ibbotson, “Price Performance of Common Stock New Issues,” Journal of Financial Economics 2 (1975).
6J. R. Ritter, “The Costs of Going Public,” Journal of Financial Economics (1987). Underpricing also exists for
new issues of seasoned stock, but to a much smaller extent. See J. Parsons and A. Raviv, “Underpricing of
Seasoned Issues,” Journal of Financial Economics 14 (1985).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
548
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
IN THEIR OWN WORDS
Jay R. Ritter on IPO Underpricing around the World
T
he United States is not the only country in which
initial public offerings of common stock (IPOs) are
underpriced. The phenomenon exists in every country
with a stock market, although the amount of under-
pricing varies from country to country.
The 1980s and 1990s have seen thousands of
companies go public. Outside of the United States,
certain industries, such as airlines and telephone
companies, were almost entirely owned by governments
20 years ago. In the last two decades, firms in these
industries have been “privatized” in many countries.
In many emerging markets, many of the firms going
public have been old family businesses or government-
owned enterprises, and their IPOs haven’t always gone
smoothly. The extreme example is China, where “A”
shares, which can only be owned by Chinese citizens,
have frequently seen first day price jumps (initial returns)
of several hundred percent.
The table below gives a summary of the average
initial returns on IPOs for 32 countries around the world,
with the figures collected from many studies by various
authors.
Average
Sample
Time
Initial
Country
Source
Size
Period
Return
Australia
Lee, Taylor & Walter
266
1976–89
11.9%
Austria
Aussenegg
61
1984–95
6.5
Belgium
Rogiers, Manigart & Ooghe
28
1984–90
10.1
Brazil
Aggarwal, Leal & Hernandez
62
1979–90
78.5
Canada
Jog & Riding; Jog & Srivastava
258
1971–92
5.4
Chile
Aggarwal, Leal & Hernandez
19
1982–90
16.3
China
Datar and Mao
226
1990–96
388.0
Denmark
Bisgard
29
1989–97
8.0
Finland
Keloharju
85
1984–92
9.6
France
Husson & Jacquillat; Leleux & Muzyka;
187
1983–92
4.2
Paliard & Belletante
Germany
Ljungqvist
170
1978–92
10.9
Greece
Kazantzis and Levis
79
1987–91
48.5
Hong Kong
McGuinness; Zhao and Wu
334
1980–96
15.9
India
Krishnamurti and Kumar
98
1992–93
35.3
Israel
Kandel, Sarig & Wohl
28
1993–94
4.5
Italy
Cherubini & Ratti
75
1985–91
27.1
Japan
Fukuda; Dawson & Hiraki; Hebner & Hiraki;
975
1970–96
24.0
Pettway & Kaneko; Hamao, Packer, & Ritter
Korea
Dhatt, Kim & Lim
347
1980–90
78.1
Malaysia
Isa
132
1980–91
80.3
Mexico
Aggarwal, Leal & Hernandez
37
1987–90
33.0
Netherlands
Wessels; Eijgenhuijsen & Buijs
72
1982–91
7.2
New Zealand
Vos & Cheung
149
1979–91
28.8
Portugal
Alpalhao
62
1986–87
54.4
Singapore
Lee, Taylor & Walter
128
1973–92
31.4
Spain
Rahnema, Fernandez & Martinez
71
1985–90
35.0
Sweden
Rydqvist
251
1980–94
34.1
Switzerland
Kunz & Aggarwal
42
1983–89
35.8
Taiwan
Chen
168
1971–90
45.0
Thailand
Wethyavivorn & Koo-smith
32
1988–89
58.1
Turkey
Kiymaz
138
1990–96
13.6
United Kingdom
Dimson; Levis
2,133
1959–90
12.0
United States
Ibbotson, Sindelar & Ritter
13,308
1960–96
15.8%
Jay R. Ritter is Cordell Professor of Finance at the University of Florida. An outstanding scholar, he is well-respected for his insightful
analyses of new issues and companies going public.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
549
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
the issue, was quoted as saying that pricing an IPO is not just about what the market will
bear at the time, but “we are trying to get the company launched for the long term and build
a good investor base.”7
Underpricing: A Possible Explanation
When the price of a new issue is too low, the issue is often oversubscribed. This means in-
vestors will not be able to buy all of the shares they want, and the underwriters will allocate
the shares among investors. The average investor will find it difficult to get shares in an
oversubscribed offering because there will not be enough shares to go around. While initial
public offerings have positive initial returns on average, a significant fraction of them have
price drops. An investor submitting an order for all new issues may find that he or she will
be allocated more shares in issues that go down in price.
Consider this tale of two investors. Ms. Smarts knows precisely what companies are
worth when their shares are offered. Mr. Average knows only that prices usually rise one
month after the IPO. Armed with this information, Mr. Average decides to buy 1,000 shares
of every IPO. Does Mr. Average actually earn an abnormally high average return across all
initial offerings?
The answer is no, and at least one reason is Ms. Smarts. For example, because Ms.
Smarts knows that company XYZ is underpriced, she invests all her money in its IPO. When
the issue is oversubscribed, the underwriters must allocate the shares between Ms. Smarts
and Mr. Average. If they do it on a pro rata basis and if Ms. Smarts has bid for twice as many
shares as Mr. Average, she will get two shares for each one Mr. Average receives. The net re-
sult is that when an issue is underpriced, Mr. Average cannot buy as much of it as he wants.
Ms. Smarts also knows that company ABC is overpriced. In this case she avoids its IPO
altogether, and Mr. Average ends up with a full 1,000 shares. To summarize, Mr. Average
receives fewer shares when more knowledgeable investors swarm to buy an underpriced is-
sue, but he gets all he wants when the smart money avoids the issue.
This is called the winner’s curse, and it explains much of the reason why IPOs have
such a large average return. When the average investor wins and gets his allocation, it is be-
cause those who knew better avoided the issue. To counteract the winner’s curse and attract
the average investor, underwriters underprice issues.8
• Describe a firm-commitment underwriting and a best-efforts underwriting.
• Suppose that a stockbroker calls you up out of the blue and offers to sell you some shares
of a new issue. Do you think the issue will do better or worse than average?
19.4 THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF NEW EQUITY AND THE
VALUE OF THE FIRM
It seems reasonable to believe that new long-term financing is arranged by firms after posi-
tive net present value projects are put together. As a consequence, when the announcement of
external financing is made, the firm’s market value should go up. As we mentioned in an ear-
lier chapter, this is precisely the opposite of what actually happens in the case of new equity
Chapter 19
Issuing Securities to the Public
543
7The New York Times, February 19, 1995, “Anatomy of a High Flying IPO, Problems and All,” p. 7.
8This explanation was first suggested in K. Rock, “Why New Issues Are Underpriced,” Journal of Financial
Economics 15 (1986).
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
550
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
financing. Asquith and Mullins, Masulis and Korwar, and Mikkelson and Partch have all
found that the market value of existing equity drops on the announcement of a new issue of
common stock.9 Plausible reasons for this strange result include:
1. Managerial Information. If managers have superior information about the market
value of the firm, they may know when the firm is overvalued. If they do, they might at-
tempt to issue new shares of stock when the market value exceeds the correct value. This
will benefit existing shareholders. However, the potential new shareholders are not stupid.
They will infer overvaluation from the new issue, thereby bidding down the stock price on
the announcement date of the issue.
2. Debt Capacity. The stereotypical firm chooses a debt-to-equity ratio that balances
the tax shield from the debt with the cost of financial distress. When the managers of a firm
have special information that the probability of financial distress has risen, the firm is more
likely to raise capital through stock than through debt. If the market infers this chain of
events, the stock price should fall on the announcement date of an equity issue.
3. Falling Earnings.10 When managers raise capital in amounts that are unexpectedly
large (as most unanticipated financings will be) and if investors have a reasonable fix on the
firm’s upcoming investments and dividend payouts (as they do because capital expenditure
announcements are often well known, as are future dividends), the unanticipated financings
are roughly equal to unanticipated shortfalls in earnings (this follows directly from the
firm’s sources and uses of funds identity). Therefore, an announcement of a new stock is-
sue will also reveal a future earnings shortfall.
• What are some reasons that the price of stock drops on the announcement of a new 
equity issue?
19.5 THE COST OF NEW ISSUES
Issuing securities to the public is not free, and the costs of different issuing methods are im-
portant determinants of which will be used. The costs fall into six categories.
1. Spread or underwriting discount
The spread is the difference between the price
the issue receives and the price offered to the
public.
2. Other direct expenses
These are costs incurred by the issuer that are
not part of the compensation to underwriters.
They include filing fees, legal fees, and taxes—
all reported in the prospectus.
3. Indirect expenses
These costs are not reported in the prospectus
and include management time on the new issue.
544
Part V
Long-Term Financing
9P. Asquith and D. Mullins, “Equity Issues and Offering Dilution,” Journal of Financial Economics 15 (1986);
R. Masulis and A. N. Korwar, “Seasoned Equity Offerings: An Empirical Investigation,” Journal of Financial
Economics 15 (1986); and W. H. Mikkelson and M. M. Partch, “The Valuation Effects of Security Offerings and
the Issuance Process,” Journal of Financial Economics 15 (1986).
10Robert S. Haugen and Claire Crutchley, “Corporate Earnings and Financings, An Empirical Analysis,”
Journal of Business 20 (1990).
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
551
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
4. Abnormal returns
In a seasoned issue of stock, the price drops by
3 percent to 4 percent upon the announcement
of the issue. The drop protects new sharehold-
ers against the firm’s selling overpriced stock
to new shareholders.
5. Underpricing
For initial public offerings, the stock typically
rises substantially after the issue date. This is a
cost to the firm because the stock is sold for
less than its efficient price in the aftermarket.11
6. Green Shoe option
The Green Shoe option gives the underwriters
the right to buy additional shares at the offer
price to cover overallotments. This is a cost to
the firm because the underwriter will only buy
additional shares when the offer price is below
the price in the aftermarket.
An interesting study by Lee, Lockhead, Ritter, and Zhao reports two of these six
costs: underwriting discount and other direct expenses.12 Their findings for both equity
offerings and debt offerings are reproduced in Table 19.5. Three conclusions emerge
from the table.
1. The costs in each category, for both equity offerings and debt offerings, decline as
the gross proceeds of the offering increase. Thus, it appears that issuance costs are subject
to substantial economies of scale.13
2. The bottom line of Table 19.5 indicates that, across all offerings, direct expenses are
higher for equity offers than for debt offers. 
3. Last, and perhaps most important, the costs of issuing securities to the public are
quite large. For example, total direct expenses are approximately 17 percent for an initial
public offering of less than $10,000,000. In addition, Table 19.6 establishes that underpric-
ing costs are another 16.36 percent. This implies that going public for the first time is a
weighty decision. While there are many benefits, such as raising needed capital and spread-
ing ownership, the costs cannot be ignored.
• Describe the costs of a new issue of common stock.
• What conclusions emerge from analyses of Tables 19.6 and 19.7?
Chapter 19
Issuing Securities to the Public
545
11Some people have argued that the price in the aftermarket is not efficient after all. However, R. Ibbotson,
“Price Performance of Common Stock New Issues,” Journal of Financial Economics 2 (1975), shows that, on
average, new issues exhibit no abnormal price performance over the first five years following issuance. This
result is generally viewed as being consistent with market efficiency. That is, the stock obtains an efficient price
immediately following issuance and remains at an efficient price.
12The notion of economies of scale has been contested by Oya Altinkilic and Robert S. Hansen “Are There
Scale Economies in Underwriting Spreads? Evidence of Rising External Financing Costs,” Review of Financial
Studies 13 (2000). They provide data and analysis that underwriter cost will be U-shaped.
13Among the most interesting developments in the initial public offering market is that almost all underwriter
spreads in recent offerings have been exactly 7 percent. This is documented in H. C. Chen and Jay R. Ritter,
“The Seven-Percent Solution,” Journal of Finance (June 2000); and Robert S. Hansen, “Do Investment Banks
Compete in IPO’s? The Advent of the 7% Plus Contract,” Journal of Financial Economics (forthcoming).
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
552
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
546
I TABLE 19.5 Direct Costs as a Percentage of Gross Proceeds for Equity (IPOs and SEOs) and Straight and Convertible Bonds
Offered by Domestic Operating Companies: 1990–94*
Equity
Bonds
IPOs
SEOs
Convertible Bonds
Straight Bonds
_______________________ _______________________ ________________________________________________
Other
Total
Other
Total
Other
Total
Other
Total
Proceeds
Number
Gross
Direct
Direct
Number
Gross
Direct
Direct
Number
Gross
Direct
Direct
Number
Gross
Direct
Direct
($ in millions)of Issues
Spread
Expense
Cost
of Issues
Spread
Expense
Cost
of Issues
Spread
Expense
Cost
of Issues
Spread
Expense
Cost
2– 9.99
337
9.05%
7.91%
16.96%
167
7.72%
5.56%
13.28%
4
6.07%
2.68%
8.75%
32
2.07%
2.32%
4.39%
10– 19.99
389
7.24
4.39
11.63
310
6.23
2.49
8.72
14
5.48
3.18
8.66
78
1.36
1.40
2.76
20– 39.99
533
7.01
2.69
9.70
425
5.60
1.33
6.93
18
4.16
1.95
6.11
89
1.54
.88
2.42
40– 59.99
215
6.96
1.76
8.72
261
5.05
.82
5.87
28
3.26
1.04
4.30
90
.72
.60
1.32
60– 79.99
79
6.74
1.46
8.20
143
4.57
.61
5.18
47
2.64
.59
3.23
92
1.76
.58
2.34
80– 99.99
51
6.47
1.44
7.91
71
4.25
.48
4.73
13
2.43
.61
3.04
112
1.55
.61
2.16
100–199.99
106
6.03
1.03
7.06
152
3.85
.37
4.22
57
2.34
.42
2.76
409
1.77
.54
2.31
200–499.99
47
5.67
.86
6.53
55
3.26
.21
3.47
27
1.99
.19
2.18
170
1.79
.40
2.19
500 and up
10
5.21
.51
5.72
9
3.03
.12
3.15
3
2.00
.09
2.09
20
1.39
.25
1.64
_____
_____
_____
_____
_____
_____
_____
_____
_____
_____
_____
_____
_____
_____
_____
_____
Total
1,767
7.31%
3.69%
11.00%
1,593
5.44%
1.67%
7.11%
211
2.92%
.87%
3.79%
1,092
1.62%
.62%
2.24%
*IPO refers to initial public offering and SEO refers to seasoned equity offering.
Source: Inmoo Lee, Scott Lockhead, Jay Ritter, and Quanshui Zhao, “The Costs of Raising Capital,” Journal of Financial Research 1 (Spring 1996).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
553
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
19.6 RIGHTS
When new shares of common stock are offered to the general public, the proportionate own-
ership of existing shareholders is likely to be reduced. However, if a preemptive right is con-
tained in the firm’s articles of incorporation, the firm must first offer any new issue of com-
mon stock to existing shareholders. This assures each owner his or her proportionate
owner’s share.
An issue of common stock to existing stockholders is called a rights offering. Here,
each shareholder is issued an option to buy a specified number of new shares from the firm
at a specified price within a specified time, after which the rights expire. For example, a
firm whose stock is selling at $30 may let current stockholders buy a fixed number of shares
at $10 per share within two months. The terms of the option are evidenced by certificates
known as share warrants or rights. Such rights are often traded on securities exchanges or
over the counter.
The Mechanics of a Rights Offering
The various considerations confronting a financial manager in a rights offering are illus-
trated by the situation of the National Power Company, whose initial financial statements
are given in Table 19.7.
National Power earns $2 million after taxes and has 1 million shares outstanding.
Earnings per share are $2, and the stock sells at 10 times earnings (that is, its price-earnings
ratio is 10). The market price of each share is therefore $20. The company plans to raise 
$5 million of new equity funds by a rights offering.
Chapter 19
Issuing Securities to the Public
547
I TABLE 19.6 Direct and Indirect Costs, in Percentages,
of Equity IPOs: 1990–94
Proceeds
Number
Gross
Other
Total
($ in millions)
of Issues
Spread
Direct Expense
Direct Cost
Underpricing
2– 
9.99
337
9.05%
7.91%
16.96%
16.36%
10– 19.99
389
7.24
4.39
11.63
9.65
20– 39.99
533
7.01
2.69
9.70
12.48
40– 59.99
215
6.96
1.76
8.72
13.65
60– 79.99
79
6.74
1.46
8.20
11.31
80– 99.99
51
6.47
1.44
7.91
8.91
100–199.99
106
6.03
1.03
7.06
7.16
200–499.99
47
5.67
.86
6.53
5.70
500 and up
10
5.21
.51
5.72
7.53
_____
_____
_____
______
______
Total
1,767
7.31%
3.69%
11.00%
12.05%
As we have discussed, the underpricing of IPOs is an additional cost to the issuer. To give a better idea of the
total cost of going public, Table 19.6 combines the information in Table 19.5 for IPOs with data on the
underpricing experience by these firms. Comparing the total direct costs (in the fifth column) to the
underpricing (in the sixth column), we see that they are roughly the same size, so the direct costs are only about
half of the total. Overall, across all size groups, the total direct costs amount to 11 percent of the amount raised
and the underpricing amounts to 12 percent.
Source: Inmoo Lee, Scott Lockhead, Jay Ritter, and Quanshui Zhao, “The Costs of Raising Capital,” Journal of
Financial Research 1 (Spring 1996).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
554
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The process of issuing rights differs from the process of issuing shares of stock for
cash. Existing stockholders are notified that they have been given one right for each share
of stock they own. Exercise occurs when a shareholder sends payment to the firm’s sub-
scription agent (usually a bank) and turns in the required number of rights. Shareholders of
National Power will have several choices: (1) subscribe for the full number of entitled
shares, (2) order all the rights sold, or (3) do nothing and let the rights expire.
The financial management of National Power must answer the following questions:
1. What price should the existing shareholders be allowed to pay for a share of new stock?
2. How many rights will be required to purchase one share of stock?
3. What effect will the rights offering have on the existing price of the stock?
Subscription Price
In a rights offering, the subscription price is the price that existing shareholders are allowed
to pay for a share of stock. A rational shareholder will only subscribe to the rights offering
if the subscription price is below the market price of the stock on the offer’s expiration date.
For example, if the stock price at expiration is $13 and the subscription price is $15, no ra-
tional shareholder will subscribe. Why pay $15 for something worth $13? National Power
chooses a price of $10, which is well below the current market price of $20. As long as the
market price does not fall by half before expiration, the rights offering will succeed.
Number of Rights Needed to Purchase a Share
National Power wants to raise $5 million in new equity. With a subscription price of $10, it
must issue 500,000 new shares. This can be determined by dividing the total amount to be
raised by the subscription price:
Number of new shares  Funds to be raised
Subscription price  $5,000,000
$10
 500,000 shares
548
Part V
Long-Term Financing
I TABLE 19.7 Financial Statement before Rights Offering
NATIONAL POWER COMPANY
Balance Sheet and Income Statement
Balance Sheet
Assets
Shareholder Equity
Common stock
$10,000,000
Retained earnings
10,000,000
__________
Total
$20,000,000
Total
$20,000,000
Income Statement
Earnings before taxes
$ 3,030,303
Taxes (34%)
1,030,303
__________
Net income
$ 2,000,000
Earnings per share
2
Shares outstanding
1,000,000
Market price per share
20
__________
Total market value
$20,000,000

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
555
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Because stockholders typically get one right for each share of stock they own, 1 million
rights will be issued by National Power. To determine how many rights must be exercised
to get one share of stock, we can divide the number of existing outstanding shares of stock
by the number of new shares:
Number of rights needed
to buy a share of stock
Thus, a shareholder must give up two rights plus $10 to receive a share of new stock. If all
the stockholders do this, National Power will raise the required $5 million.
It should be clear that the subscription price, the number of new shares, and the num-
ber of rights needed to buy a new share of stock are interrelated. If National Power lowers
the subscription price, it must issue more new shares to raise $5 million in new equity.
Several alternatives appear here:
Number of Rights
Subscription
Number of
Needed to Buy a
Price
New Shares
Share of Stock
$20
250,000
4
10
500,000
2
5
1,000,000
1
Effect of Rights Offering on Price of Stock
Rights clearly have value. In the case of National Power, the right to be able to buy a share
of stock worth $20 for $10 is valuable.
Suppose a shareholder of National Power owns two shares of stock just before the
rights offering. This situation is depicted in Table 19.8. Initially, the price of National Power
is $20 per share, so the shareholder’s total holding is worth 2  $20  $40. The stockholder
who has two shares will receive two rights. The National Power rights offer gives share-
holders with two rights the opportunity to purchase one additional share for $10. The hold-
ing of the shareholder who exercises these rights and buys the new share would increase to
three shares. The value of the new holding would be $40  $10  $50 (the $40 initial value
plus the $10 paid to the company). Because the stockholder now holds three shares, the
price per share would drop to $50/3  $16.67 (rounded to two decimal places).
The difference between the old share price of $20 and the new share price of $16.67
reflects the fact that the old shares carried rights to subscribe to the new issue. The differ-
ence must be equal to the value of one right, that is, $20  $16.67  $3.33.
Just as we learned of an ex-dividend date in the previous chapter, there is an ex-rights
date here. An individual buying the stock prior to the ex-rights date will receive the rights
when distributed. An individual buying the stock on or after the ex-rights date will not re-
ceive the rights. In our example, the price of the stock prior to the ex-rights date is $20. An
individual buying on or after the ex-rights date is not entitled to the rights. The price on or
after the ex-rights date is $16.67.
Table 19.9 shows what happens to National Power. If all shareholders exercise their
rights, the number of shares will increase to 1.5 million and the value of the firm will in-
crease to $25 million. After the rights offering the value of each share will drop to $16.67
( $25 million/1.5 million).
An investor holding no shares of National Power stock who wants to subscribe to the
new issue can do so by buying rights. An outside investor buying two rights will pay
$3.33  2  $6.67 (to account for previous rounding). If the investor exercises the rights
 "Old" shares
"New" shares  1,000,000
500,000  2 rights
Chapter 19
Issuing Securities to the Public
549

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
556
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
at a subscription cost of $10, the total cost would be $10  $6.67  $16.67. In return for
this expenditure, the investor will receive a share of the new stock, which is worth $16.67.
Of course, outside investors can also buy National Power stock directly at $16.67 per
share. In an efficient stock market it will make no difference whether new stock is obtained
via rights or via direct purchase.
Effects on Shareholders
Shareholders can exercise their rights or sell them. In either case, the stockholder will nei-
ther win nor lose by the rights offering. The hypothetical holder of two shares of National
Power has a portfolio worth $40. On the one hand, if the shareholder exercises the rights,
550
Part V
Long-Term Financing
I TABLE 19.8 The Value to the Individual Shareholder of 
National Power’s Rights
The Shareholder
Initial position
Number of shares
2
Share price
$20
Value of holding
$40
Terms of offer
Subscription price
$10
Number of rights issued
2
Number of rights for a share
2
After offer
Number of shares
3
Value of holding
$50
Share price
$16.67
Value of a right
Old price  New price
$20  $16.67  $3.33
New price  Subscription price
($16.67  $10)/2  $3.33
_________________________
Number of rights for a share
I TABLE 19.9 National Power Company Rights Offering
Initial position
Number of shares
1 million
Share price
$20
Value of firm
$20 million
Terms of offer
Subscription price
$10
Number of rights issued
1 million
Number of rights for a share
2
After offer
Number of shares
1.5 million
Share price
$16.67
Value of firm
$25 million
Value of one right
$20  $16.67  $3.33
or ($16.67  $10)/2  $3.33

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
557
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
he or she ends up with three shares worth a total of $50. In other words, by spending $10,
the investor increases the value of the holding by $10, which means that he or she is neither
better nor worse off.
On the other hand, a shareholder who sells the two rights for $3.33 each obtains
$3.33  2  $6.67 in cash. Because the two shares are each worth $16.67, the holdings
are valued at
Shares 
2  $16.67  $33.33
Sold rights  2  $ 3.33  $ 6.67
Total 
 $40.00
The new $33.33 market value plus $6.67 in cash is exactly the same as the original holding
of $40. Thus, stockholders can neither lose nor gain from exercising or selling rights.
It is obvious that the new market price of the firm’s stock will be lower after the rights
offering than it was before the rights offering. The lower the subscription price, the greater
the price decline of a rights offering. However, our analysis shows that the stockholders
have suffered no loss because of the rights offering.
The Underwriting Arrangements
Undersubscription can occur if investors throw away rights or if bad news causes the mar-
ket price of the stock to fall below the subscription price. To ensure against these possibil-
ities, rights offerings are typically arranged by standby underwriting. Here, the under-
writer makes a firm commitment to purchase the unsubscribed portion of the issue at the
subscription price less a take-up fee. The underwriter usually receives a standby fee as
compensation for his risk-bearing function.
In practice, the subscription price is usually set well below the current market price,
making the probability of a rights failure quite small. Though a small percentage (less than
10 percent) of shareholders fail to exercise valuable rights, shareholders are usually allowed
to purchase unsubscribed shares at the subscription price. This oversubscription privilege
makes it unlikely that the corporate issuer would need to turn to its underwriter for help.
• Describe the details of a rights offering.
• What are the questions that financial management must answer in a rights offering?
• How is the value of a right determined?
19.7 THE RIGHTS PUZZLE
Smith calculated the issuance costs from three alternative methods: an equity issue with un-
derwriting, a rights issue with standby underwriting, and a pure rights issue.14 The results
of his study, which appear in Table 19.10, suggest that a pure rights issue is the cheapest of
the three alternatives. The bottom line of the table shows that total costs as a percentage of
proceeds is 6.17 percent, 6.05 percent, and 2.45 percent for the three alternatives, respec-
tively. As the body of the table indicates, this disparity holds when issues of different sizes
are separated.
Chapter 19
Issuing Securities to the Public
551
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?
14C. W. Smith, Jr., “Alternative Methods for Raising Capital: Rights versus Underwritten Offerings,” Journal of
Financial Economics 5 (December 1977).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
558
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
552
I TABLE 19.10 Costs of Flotation as a Percentage of Proceeds*
Underwriting
Rights with Standby Underwriting
Pure Rights
____________________________________ ____________________________________ _______________
Compensation
Other
Compensation
Other
as a
Expenses as
Total Cost as
as a
Expenses as
Total Cost as
Total Cost as
Size of Issue
Percentage
a Percentage
a Percentage
Percentage
a Percentage
a Percentage
a Percentage
(in $ millions)
Number
of Proceeds
of Proceeds
of Proceeds
Number
of Proceeds
of Proceeds
of Proceeds
Number
of Proceeds
Under 0.50
0
—
—
—
0
—
—
—
8.99
3
0.50 to 
0.99
6
6.96
6.78
13.74
2
3.43
4.80
8.24
2
4.59
1.00 to 
1.99
18
10.40
4.89
15.29
5
6.36
4.15
10.51
5
4.90
2.00 to 
4.99
61
6.59
2.87
9.47
9
5.20
2.85
8.06
7
2.85
5.00 to 
9.99
66
5.50
1.53
7.03
4
3.92
2.18
6.10
6
1.39
10.00 to 19.99
91
4.84
0.71
5.55
10
4.14
1.21
5.35
3
0.72
20.00 to 49.99
156
4.30
0.37
4.67
12
3.84
0.90
4.74
1
0.52
50.00 to 99.99
70
3.97
0.21
4.18
9
3.96
0.74
4.70
2
0.21
100.00 to 500.00
16
3.81
0.14
3.95
5
3.50
0.50
4.00
9
0.13
___
____
____
____
__
____
____
____
__
____
Total/average
484
5.02
1.15
6.17
56
4.32
1.73
6.05
38
2.45
*Based on 578 common stock issues registered under the Securities Act of 1933 during 1971–1975. The issues are subdivided by size of issue and method of financing: underwriting, rights with
standby underwriting, and pure rights offering.
Issues are included only if the company’s stock was listed on the NYSE, AMEX, or regional exchanges before the offering; any associated secondary distribution represents less than 10 percent
of the total proceeds of the issue, and the offering contains no other types of securities. The costs reported are: (1) compensation received by investment bankers for underwriting services
rendered, (2) legal fees, (3) accounting fees, (4) engineering fees, (5) trustees’ fees, (6) printing and engraving expenses, (7) SEC registration fees, (8) federal revenue stamps, and (9) state taxes.
Modified from C. W. Smith, Jr., “Costs of Underwritten versus Rights Issues,” Journal of Financial Economics 5 (December 1977), p. 277 (Table 1).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
559
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
If corporate executives are rational, they will raise equity in the cheapest manner. Thus,
the above evidence suggests that issues of pure rights should dominate. Surprisingly, Smith
points out that over 90 percent of new issues are underwritten. This is generally viewed as
an anomaly in the finance profession, though a few explanations have been advanced.15
1. Underwriters increase the stock price. This is supposedly accomplished because of
increased public confidence or by the selling effort of the underwriting group. However,
Smith could find no evidence of this in an examination of 52 rights offerings and 344 un-
derwritten offerings.
2. Because the underwriter buys the shares at the agreed-upon price, it is providing in-
surance to the firm. That is, the underwriter loses if it is unable to sell all the shares to the
public. This potential loss might mean that the underwriter’s effective compensation is less
than that measured in Table 19.10. However, the potential economic loss is probably not
large. In most cases, the offer price is set within 24 hours of the offering, by which time the
underwriter has usually made a careful assessment of the market for the shares.
3. Other arguments include (a) the proceeds of underwritten issues are available
sooner than are the proceeds from a rights offer, (b) underwriters provide a wider distribu-
tion of ownership than would be true with a rights offering, (c) consulting advice from in-
vestment bankers may be beneficial, and (d) stockholders find exercising rights a nuisance.
All of the preceding arguments are pieces of the puzzle, but none seems very convinc-
ing. Recently, Booth and Smith identified a function of the underwriter that had not been
taken into account in previous cost studies.16 They argue that the underwriter certifies that
the offering price is consistent with the true value of the issue. This certification is implied
in the underwriting relationship and is provided when the underwriting firm gets access to
inside information and puts its reputation for correct pricing on the line.
• Why might a firm prefer a general cash offering to a rights offering?
19.8 SHELF REGISTRATION
To simplify the procedures for issuing securities, the SEC currently allows shelf registra-
tion. Shelf registration permits a corporation to register an offering that it reasonably ex-
pects to sell within the next two years. A master registration statement is filed at the time
of registration. The company is permitted to sell the issue whenever it wants over those two
years as long as it distributes a short-form statement.
Not all companies are allowed shelf registration. The major qualifications are as follows:
1. The company must be rated investment grade.
2. The firm cannot have defaulted on its debt in the past 12 months.
3. The aggregate market value of the firm’s outstanding stock must be more than $75 million.
4. The firm must not have violated the Securities Act of 1934 in the past 12 months.
Chapter 19
Issuing Securities to the Public
553
15It is even more anomalous because rights offerings are used around the world. In fact, they are required by law
in many other countries.
16Booth and R. Smith, “The Certification Role of the Investment Banker in New Issue Pricing,” Midland
Corporate Finance Journal (Spring 1986).
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
560
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Hershman reports on the use of the dribble method of new equity issuance.17 With drib-
bling, a company registers the issue and hires an underwriter to be its selling agent. The
company sells shares in small amounts from time to time via a stock exchange. Companies
that have dribble programs include Middle South Utilities, Niagara Mohawk, Pacific Gas
and Electric, and the Southern Company. However, the evidence is that shelf registration is
almost never used for equity but is used about one-half of the time for debt.18
The rule has been very controversial. Several arguments have been made against shelf
registration.
1. The timeliness of disclosure is reduced with shelf registration, because the master
registration statement may have been prepared up to two years before the actual issue occurs.
2. Some investment bankers have argued that shelf registration will cause a market
overhang, because registration informs the market of future issues. It has been suggested
that this overhang will depress market prices. However, an empirical analysis by Bhagat,
Marr, and Thompson found that shelf registration is less costly than conventional under-
writing and found no evidence to suggest a market-overhang effect.19 Surprisingly, few el-
igible companies are currently selling equity by using shelf registration.20
• Describe shelf registration.
• What are the arguments against shelf registration?
19.9 THE PRIVATE EQUITY MARKET
The previous sections of this chapter assumed that a company is big enough, successful
enough, and old enough to raise capital in the public equity market. Of course, there are
many firms that have not reached this stage and cannot use the public equity market. For
start-up firms or firms in financial trouble, the public equity market is often not available.
The market for venture capital is part of the private equity market.21
Private Placement
Private placements avoid the costly procedures associated with the registration require-
ments that are part of public issues. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) re-
stricts private placement issues to no more than a couple of dozen knowledgeable in-
vestors including institutions such as insurance companies and pension funds. The
biggest drawback of privately placed securities is that the securities cannot be easily
resold. Most private placements involve debt securities, but equity securities can also be
privately placed.
554
Part V
Long-Term Financing
17A. Hershman, “New Strategies in Equity Financing,” Dunn’s Business Monthly (June 1983).
18D. J. Dennis, “Shelf Registration and the Market in Seasonal Equity Offerings,” Journal of Business 64 (1991).
19S. Bhagat, M. W. Marr, and G. R. Thompson, “The Rule 415 Experiment: Equity Markets,” Journal of
Finance 19 (December 1985).
20R. Rogowski and E. Sorenson, “Deregulation in Investment Banking: Shelf Registration, Structure, and
Performance,” Financial Management (Spring 1985).
21S. E. Pratt, “Overview and Introduction to the Venture Capital Industry,” Guide to Venture Capital Sources,
10th ed., 1987 (Venture Economics. Laurel Avenue, Box 348, Wellesley Hills, MA 02181).
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
561
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
In 1990, Rule 144A was adopted by the SEC and established a framework for the is-
suance of private securities to certain qualified institutional investors. The rule has gener-
ated a substantial market for privately underwritten issues. Largely because of Rule 144A,
companies raise about one-sixth of the proceeds from all new issues without registration
with the SEC. To qualify to buy Rule 144A offerings, investors must have at least $100 mil-
lion in assets under management. Most private placements are in straight bonds or convert-
ible bonds. However, preferred stock is frequently issued as a private placement.
The Private Equity Firm
A large amount of private equity investment is undertaken by professional private equity
managers representing large institutional investors such as mutual funds and pension funds.
The limited partnership is the dominant form of intermediation in this market. Typically,
the institutional investors act as the limited partners and the professional managers act as
general partners. The general partners are firms that specialize in funding and managing eq-
uity investments in closely held private firms. The private equity market has been important
for both traditional start-up companies and established public firms. Thus, the private eq-
uity market can be divided into venture equity and nonventure equity markets. A large part
of the nonventure market is made up of firms in financial distress. Firms in financial dis-
tress are not likely to be able to issue public equity and typically cannot use traditional
forms of debt such as bank loans or public debt. For these firms, the best alternative is to
find a private equity market firm.
Chapter 19
Issuing Securities to the Public
555
17.7%
16.2%
66.1%
4.07
($ billion)
37.3
152.1
100%
230.1
Private Rule 144A Placements
Private Non-Rule 144A Placements
Public Equity Offering
Total Equity Offerings
I FIGURE 19.2 Corporate Equity Security Offerings: 1997 
Source: Jennifer E. Bethal and Erik R. Sirri, “Express Lane or Toll Booth in the Desert: The Sec of Framework
for Securities Issuance,” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance (Spring 1998).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
562
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Suppliers of Venture Capital
As we have pointed out, venture capital is an important part of the private equity market.
There are at least four types of suppliers of venture capital. First, a few old-line, wealthy
families have traditionally provided start-up capital to promising businesses. For example,
over the years, the Rockefeller family has made the initial capital contribution to a number
of successful businesses. These families have been involved in venture capital for the bet-
ter part of this century, if not longer.
Second, a number of private partnerships and corporations have been formed to provide
investment funds. The organizer behind the partnership might raise capital from institutional
investors, such as insurance companies and pension funds. Alternatively, a group of individ-
uals might provide the funds to be ultimately invested with budding entrepreneurs.
Of the early partnerships, the most well-known is clearly American Research and
Development (ARD), which was formed in 1946. Though ARD invested in many companies,
its success was largely due to its investment in Digital Equipment Company (DEC). When
Textron acquired ARD in 1972, over 85 percent of the shareholders’distribution was due to the
investment in DEC.22 Among the more recent venture capitalists, Arthur Rock & Co. of San
Francisco may very well be the best known. Because of its huge success with Apple Computer
and other high-tech firms, it has achieved near mythic stature in the venture-capital industry.
Recent estimates put the number of venture-capital firms at about 2,000. Pratt’s Guide
to Venture Capital (Venture Economics) provides a list of the names of many of these
firms.23 The average amount invested per venture has been estimated to be between $1 mil-
lion and $2 million. However, one should not make too much of this figure, because the
amount of financing varies considerably with the venture to be funded.
Stories used to abound about how easily an individual could obtain venture capital.
Though that may have been the case in an earlier era, it is certainly not the case today.
Venture-capital firms employ various screening procedures to prevent inappropriate fund-
ing. For example, because of the large demand for funds, many venture capitalists have at
least one employee whose full-time job consists of reading business plans. Only the very
best plans can expect to attract funds. Maier and Walker indicate that only about 2 percent
of requests actually receive financing.24
Third, large industrial or financial corporations have established venture-capital sub-
sidiaries. The Lambda Fund of Drexel Burnham Lambert, Manufacturers Hanover Venture
Capital Corp., Citicorp Venture Capital, and Chemical Venture Capital Corporation of
Chemical Bank are examples of this type. However, subsidiaries of this type appear to make
up only a small portion of the venture-capital market.
Fourth, participants in an informal venture-capital market have recently been identi-
fied.25 Rather than belonging to any venture-capital firm, these investors (often referred to
as angels) act as individuals when providing financing. However, they should not, by any
means, be viewed as isolated. Wetzel and others indicate that there is a rich network of an-
gels, continually relying on each other for advice. A number of researchers have stressed
that, in any informal network, there is likely one knowledgeable and trustworthy individual
who, when backing a venture, brings a few less experienced investors in with him.
556
Part V
Long-Term Financing
22H. Stevenson, D. Muzka, and J. Timmons, “Venture Capital in Transition: A Monte-Carlo Simulation of
Changes in Investment Patterns,” Journal of Business Venturing (Spring 1987).
23Pratt, “Overview and Introduction to the Venture Capital Industry.”
24J. B. Maier and D. Walker, “The Role of Venture Capital in Financing Small Business,” Journal of Business
Venturing (Summer 1987).
25See W. E. Wetzel, “The Informal Venture Capital Market: Aspects of Scale and Market Efficiency,” Journal of
Business Venturing (Fall 1987).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
563
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The venture-capital community has unfortunately chosen to refer to these individuals
as “dumb dentists.” Although a number indeed may be dentists, their intelligence should
not be called into question. Wetzel argues that the prototypical angel has income over
$100,000, net worth over $1,000,000, and substantial business experience and knowledge.
As one might expect, the informal venture capitalist is able to tolerate high risks.
Though this informal market may seem small and unimportant, it is perhaps the largest
of all sources of venture capital. Wetzel argues that aggregate investments from this source
total around $50 billion, about twice the amount invested by more professional venture cap-
italists. The size of each contribution is smaller here. Perhaps, on average, only $250,000
per venture is raised when the informal market is tapped.
Stages of Financing
A. V. Bruno and T. T. Tyebjee identify six stages in venture-capital financing:26
1. Seed-Money Stage. A small amount of financing needed to prove a concept or develop
a product. Marketing is not included in this stage.
2. Start-Up. Financing for firms that started within the past year. Funds are likely to pay
for marketing and product development expenditures.
3. First-Round Financing. Additional money to begin sales and manufacturing after a firm
has spent its start-up funds.
4. Second-Round Financing. Funds earmarked for working capital for a firm that is cur-
rently selling its product but still losing money.
5. Third-Round Financing. Financing for a company that is at least breaking even and is
contemplating an expansion. This is also known as mezzanine financing.
6. Fourth-Round Financing. Money provided for firms that are likely to go public within
half a year. This round is also known as bridge financing.
Although these categories may seem vague to the reader, we have found that the terms
are well-accepted within the industry. For example, the venture-capital firms listed in Pratt’s
Guide to Venture Capital indicate which of the above stages they are interested in financing.
The penultimate stage in venture capital finance is the initial public offering.27
Venture capitalists are very important participants in initial public offerings. Venture cap-
italists rarely sell all of the shares they own at the time of the initial public offering.
Instead, they usually sell out in subsequent public offerings. However, there is consider-
able evidence that venture capitalists can successfully time IPOs by taking firms public
when the market values are at the highest. Figure 19.3 shows the number of IPOs of pri-
vately held venture-capital-backed biotechnology companies in each month from 1978 to
1992. The venture-capital-backed IPOs clearly coincide with the ups and downs in the
biotech market index in the top panel.
• What are the different sources of venture-capital financing?
• What are the different stages for companies seeking venture-capital financing?
• What is the private equity market?
• What is Rule 144A?
Chapter 19
Issuing Securities to the Public
557
26A.V. Bruno and T. T. Tyebjee, “The Entrepreneur’s Search for Capital,” Journal of Business Venturing (Winter 1985).
27A very influential paper by Christopher Barry, Chris J. Muscarella, John W. Peavey III, and Michael R.
Vetsuypens, “The Role of Venture Capital in the Creation of Public Companies: Evidence from the Going Public
Process,” Journal of Financial Economics 27 (1990), shows that venture capitalists do not usually sell shares at
the time of the initial public offering, but they usually have board seats and act as advisors to managers.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
564
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
CASE STUDY:
The Decision to Do an Initial Public Offering (IPO):
The Case of Medstone International, Inc.
M
ost firms initially raise equity financing with private placements in the venture-capital market
from a small number of investor capitalists. If a firm does well and needs to raise more equity
financing, it may decide to sell stock with an initial public offering.We see how this occurs with the
case of Medstone International, Inc.
Medstone International, Inc., was created in 1984 to manufacture and sell medical products us-
ing the new technology of shockwave lithotripsy. Initially, Medstone raised its cash from contribu-
tions from its founders and from banks. From 1984 to 1986 Medstone spent most of its available
cash on research and development of the technology of shockwave lithotripsy. Eventually, in 1986,
the company developed a product called the Medstone 1050 ST.The purpose of the Medstone 1050
ST was for nonsurgical disintegration of kidney stones and gallstones.
However, it wasn’t until 1987 that the company actually generated profits from the Medstone
1050 ST (as follows).
Summary of
Financial Information
(in thousands)
1986
1987
Revenues
$
25
$ 6,562
Income
(1,698)
680
Assets
865
3,205
Liabilities
6,062
5,517
Equity
(5,197)
(2,312)
558
Part V
Long-Term Financing
Biotech
equity
index
(1/1/78=1)
Number
of IPOs
5
1
0
9
5
0
Jan.
78
Jan.
79
Jan.
80
Jan.
81
Jan.
82
Jan.
83
Jan.
84
Jan.
85
Jan.
86
Jan.
87
Jan.
88
Jan.
89
Jan.
90
Jan.
91
Jan.
92
I FIGURE 19.3 Initial Public Offerings by Venture-Capital-Backed
Biotechnology Firms, January 1978 to January 1992
Source: Joshua Lerner, “Venture Capitalists and the Decision to Go Public,” Journal of Financial Economics 35
(June 1994).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
565
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
By January 1988 Medstone International had obtained an investigative new drug permit from
the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and had entered into an agreement to sell and install the
Medstone System in seven U.S. states. In early 1988 the firm’s prospects seemed excellent and its
founders had reason to be optimistic.But Medstone needed additional cash and its founders wanted
the opportunity to cash out, so it hired the Weeden Co., a well-known investment banking firm, to
arrange for an initial public offering (IPO) of common stock.In June 1988,Medstone went public with
an IPO and sold 1 million shares of stock at $13 per share and raised $11,700,000. Immediately af-
ter the IPO there were 4,500,000 shares of Medstone stock outstanding. Insiders owned 3,500,000
shares, and outsiders owned 1,000,000 shares.
Price to
Underwriting
Proceeds
Public
Discount
to Company
Per share
$13,000,000
$1,300,000
$11,700,000
Total
13,000,000
1,300,000
11,700,000
Although the stock was offered at $13 per share, by the end of the first day, it was selling for
$18 (this is a 38.5 percent increase).
As is typical in IPOs, the proceeds from the sale of stock had two purposes: to reduce indebt-
edness to banks and to cash out insiders, and to finance present and future operations and growth
opportunities.
In 1984 when Medstone was formed, it was a “start-up” with no operating history and virtually
no manufacturing and marketing experience. Moreover, when Medstone did its IPO, its product had
not yet received final FDA approval.The company’s potential was great and so were its risks of fail-
ure.The company’s ultimate success depended upon its ability to form a new business,introduce new
products, and successfully compete in the marketplace. However, in the case of medical products,
success depends on obtaining FDA approval. Obtaining FDA approval for a new product can be a
time-consuming process, and there is no guarantee that final clearance will ever be granted. Unfor-
tunately, Medstone was never able to obtain final FDA approval.
When the company announced that it would no longer try to sell the Medstone 1050 ST,the mar-
ket for its stock collapsed and the firm was forced to reorganize.Were investors in Medstone too op-
timistic? If so, they were not alone.The stocks of many IPOs have performed poorly after the offering.
Every IPO is unique but there are some familiar themes.
1. Underpricing. Firms going through an IPO usually have their shares underpriced.This means that the
initial market price is usually significantly less than their market price prevailing at the end of the
first trading day.This is one of the indirect costs of IPOs, and Medstone’s underpricing was typical.
2. Underperformance. The Medstone IPO did not work out very well for many of the outside in-
vestors because the firm ultimately could not sell its Medstone 1050 ST.The Medstone IPO is typ-
ical in that the average firm performs very poorly after an IPO.Three years after an IPO,the stock
price of firms doing IPOs has typically fallen below the initial price. Interestingly, it is also true for
seasoned equity issues.This is a puzzle and several reasons have been put forth to explain it.
3. Going Public. Many IPOs such as Medstone are to give inside equity investors an opportunity to
exchange their private equity for public equity and cash out their stakes in the firm. Usually only
a fraction of the inside equity is sold in the IPO.Later in subsequent common stock sales,the rest
of the inside ownership is sold.
Chapter 19
Issuing Securities to the Public
559

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
566
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
19.10 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
This chapter looks closely at how equity is issued. The main points follow.
1. Large issues have proportionately much lower costs of issuing equity than small ones.
2. Firm-commitment underwriting is far more prevalent for large issues than is best-efforts
underwriting. Smaller issues probably primarily use best efforts because of the greater
uncertainty of these issues. For an offering of a given size, the direct expenses of best-efforts
underwriting and firm-commitment underwriting are of the same magnitude.
3. Rights offerings are cheaper than general cash offers and eliminate the problem of
underpricing. Yet, most new equity issues are underwritten general cash offers.
4. Shelf registration is a new method of issuing new debt and equity. The direct costs of shelf
issues seem to be substantially lower than those of traditional issues.
5. Venture capitalists are an increasingly important influence in start-up firms and subsequent
financing.
KEY TERMS
Best efforts
538
Registration statement
534
Cash offer
537
Regulation A
534
Competitive offer
541
Seasoned new issue
537
Ex-rights date 549
Shelf registration
553
Firm commitment
538
Standby fee
551
Green Shoe provision
539
Standby underwriting
551
Initial public offering (IPO)
537
Subscription price
548
Investment banks
537
Syndicate
538
Negotiated offer
541
Tombstone
535
Oversubscription privilege
551
Unseasoned new issue
537
Prospectus
534
Venture capital
554
Red herring
534
SUGGESTED READINGS
Here are several significant recent articles that have helped shape our understanding of how
capital is raised.
Altinkilic, Oya, and Robert S. Hansen. “Are There Economies of Scale in Underwriting Fees?
Evidence of Rising External Financing Costs.” Review of Financial Studies 13 (2000).
Ellis, Katrina, Roni Michaely, and Maureen O’Hara. “When the Underwriter is the Market Maker:
An Examination of Trading in the IPO After Market.” Journal of Finance (June 2000).
Chen, Hsuan-Chi, and Jay R. Ritter. “The Seven Percent Solution,” Journal of Finance (June 2000).
Aggarwal, Reena. “Stabilization Activities by Underwriters After Initial Public Offerings.”
Journal of Finance (June 2000).
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
The Public Issue
19.1 Define the following terms related to the issuance of public securities.
a. General cash offer
b. Rights offer
560
Part V
Long-Term Financing

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
567
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
c. Registration statement
d. Prospectus
e. Initial public offering
f. Seasoned new issue
g. Shelf registration
19.2 a. What does the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 regulate?
b. What does the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 regulate?
The Cash Offer
19.3 What are the comparative advantages of a competitive offer and a negotiated offer,
respectively?
19.4 Define the following terms related to underwriting.
a. Firm commitment
b. Syndicate
c. Spread
d. Best efforts
19.5 a. Who bears the risk in firm-commitment underwriting? Explain.
b. Who bears the risk in best-efforts underwriting? Explain.
19.6 Suppose the Newton Company has 10,000 shares of stock. Each share is worth $40, and
the company’s market value of equity is $400,000. Suppose the firm issues 5,000 shares
of the new stock at the following prices: $40, $20, and $10. What will be the effect of
each of the alternative offering prices on the existing price per share?
19.7 In 1980 a certain assistant professor of finance bought 12 initial public offerings of common
stock. He held each of these for approximately one month and then sold them. The
investment rule he followed was to submit a purchase order for every firm-commitment
initial public offering of oil- and gas-exploration companies. There were 22 such offerings,
and he submitted a purchase order for approximately $1,000 of stock for each one. With 10
of these, no shares were allocated to this assistant professor. With five of the 12 offerings
that were purchased, fewer than the requested number of shares were allocated.
The year 1980 was very good for oil- and gas-exploration company owners. For the
22 stocks that went public, the stock was selling on average for 80 percent above the
offering price within a month. Yet, this assistant professor looked at his performance record
and found the $8,400 invested in 12 companies had grown to only $10,100, a return of
only about 20 percent. (Commissions were negligible.) Did he have bad luck, or should he
have expected to do worse than the average initial-public-offering investor? Explain.
The Announcement of New Equity and the Value of the Firm
19.8 What are the possible reasons for why the stock price typically drops on the announcement
of a seasoned new equity issue?
The Cost of New Issues
19.9 What are the costs of new issues?
Rights
19.10 Bountiful Beef Processors (BBP) wants to raise equity through a rights offering. BBP has
2,400,000 shares of common stock outstanding, and must raise $12,000,000. The
subscription price of the rights will be $15.
a. How many new shares of stock must BBP issue?
b. How many rights will be necessary to purchase one share of stock?
c. What must a shareholder remit to receive one share of stock?
19.11 Jelly Beans, Inc., is proposing a rights offering. There are 100,000 outstanding shares at
$25 each. There will be 10,000 new shares issued at a $20 subscription price.
a. What is the value of a right?
b. What is the ex-rights price?
c. What is the new market value of the company?
d. Why might a company have a rights offering rather than a common stock offering?
Chapter 19
Issuing Securities to the Public
561

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
19. Issuing Securities to 
the Public
568
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
19.12 Superior, Inc., is a manufacturer of beta-blockers. Management has concluded that
additional equity financing is required to increase production capacity, and that these
funds are best attained through a rights offering. It has correctly concluded that, as a
result of the rights offering, share price will fall from $50 to $45 ($50 is the rights-on
price; $45 is the ex-rights price, also known as the when-issued price). The company is
seeking $5 million in additional funds with a per-share subscription price equal to $25.
a. How many shares were there before the offering?
19.13 A company’s stock currently sells for $45 per share. Last week the firm issued rights to
raise new equity. To purchase a new share, a stockholder must remit $10 and three rights.
a. What is the ex-rights stock price?
b. What is the price of one right?
c. When will the price drop occur? Why will it occur then?
19.14 Summit Corp.’s stock is currently selling at $13 per share. There are 1 million shares
outstanding. The firm is planning to raise $2 million to finance a new project. What is the
ex-right stock price, the value of a right, and the appropriate subscription prices, if
a. Two shares of outstanding stock are entitled to purchase one additional share of the
new issue.
b. Four shares of outstanding stock are entitled to purchase one additional share of the
new issue.
c. How does the stockholders’ wealth change from a to b?
The New Issue Puzzle
19.15 Megabucks Industries is planning to raise fresh equity capital by selling a large new issue
of common stock. Megabucks is a publicly traded corporation, and is trying to choose
between an underwritten cash offer and a rights offering (not underwritten) to current
shareholders. Megabucks’ management is interested in maximizing the wealth of current
shareholders and has asked you for advice on the choice of issue methods. What is your
recommendation? Why?
Shelf Registration
19.16 Explain why shelf registration has been used by many firms instead of syndication.
Venture Capital
19.17 Who are the different suppliers of venture capital?
The Decision to Do an Initial Public Offering (IPO): The Case of Medstone
International, Inc.
19.18 What are the uses for the proceeds from an IPO?
19.19 Every IPO is unique, but what are the basic empirical regularities in IPOs?
562
Part V
Long-Term Financing

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
569
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Long-Term Debt
CHAPTER 20
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
T
he previous chapter introduced the mechanics of new long-term financing, with
an emphasis on equity. This chapter takes a closer look at long-term debt 
instruments.
The chapter begins with a review of the basic features of long-term debt, and a de-
scription of some important aspects of publicly issued long-term bonds. We also discuss
forms of long-term financing that are not publicly issued: term loans and private-placement
bonds. These are directly placed with lending institutions, such as a commercial bank or a
life insurance company.
All bond agreements have protective covenants. These are restrictions on the firm that
protect the bondholder. We present several types of protective covenants in this chapter.
A large number of publicly issued industrial bonds have call provisions, which enable
a company to buy back its bonds at a predetermined call price. This chapter attempts to an-
swer two questions about call provisions.
1. Should firms issue callable bonds?
2. When should such bonds be called?
There are many different kinds of long-term bonds. We discuss three—floating-rate
bonds, income bonds, and deep-discount bonds—and analyze what types of bonds are best
in different circumstances.
20.1 LONG-TERM DEBT: A REVIEW
Long-term debt securities are promises by the issuing firm to pay interest and principal on
the unpaid balance. The maturity of a long-term debt instrument refers to the length of time
the debt remains outstanding with some unpaid balance. Debt securities can be short-term
(maturities of one year or less) or long-term (maturities of more than one year).1 Short-term
debt is sometimes referred to as unfunded debt and long-term debt as funded debt.2
The two major forms of long-term debt are public issue and privately placed debt. We
discuss public-issue bonds first, and most of what we say about them holds true for privately
placed long-term debt as well. The main difference between publicly issued and privately
placed debt is that private debt is directly placed with a lending institution.
There are many other attributes to long-term debt, including security, call features, sink-
ing funds, ratings, and protective covenants. The boxed material illustrates these attributes.
1In addition, people often refer to intermediate-term debt, which has a maturity of more than one year and less
than three to five years.
2The word funding generally implies long-term. Thus, a firm planning to fund its debt requirements may be
replacing short-term debt with long-term debt.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
570
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
20.2 THE PUBLIC ISSUE OF BONDS
The general procedures followed for a public issue of bonds are the same as those for stocks,
as described in the previous chapter. First, the offering must be approved by the board of di-
rectors. Sometimes a vote of stockholders is also required. Second, a registration statement
is prepared for review by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Third, if accepted, the
registration statement becomes effective 20 days later, and the securities are sold.
However, the registration statement for a public issue of bonds must include an inden-
ture, a document not relevant for the issue of common stock. An indenture is a written agree-
ment between the corporation (the borrower) and a trust company. It is sometimes referred to
as the deed of trust.3 The trust company is appointed by the corporation to represent the bond-
holders. The trust company must (1) be sure the terms of the indenture are obeyed, (2) man-
age the sinking fund, and (3) represent bondholders if the company defaults on its payments.
The typical bond indenture can be a document of several hundred pages, and it gener-
ally includes the following provisions:
1. The basic terms of the bonds.
2. A description of property used as security.
564
Part V
Long-Term Financing
FEATURES OF A HYPOTHETICAL BOND
Terms
Explanations
Amount of issue
$100 million
The company issued $100 million of bonds.
Date of issue
10/21/95
The bonds were sold on 10/21/95.
Maturity
12/31/24
The principal will be paid in 30 years.
Denomination
$1,000
Each individual bond will pay $1,000 at 
maturity.
Annual coupon
10.50
Because the denomination of each bond is 
$1,000, each bondholder will receive $105
per bond per year.
Offer price
100
The offer price was 100 percent of the 
denomination, or $1,000 per bond.
Yield to maturity
10.50%
If the bond is held to maturity, bondholders 
will receive a stated annual rate of return
equal to 10.5 percent.
Dates of coupon 
12/31, 6/30
Coupons of $52.50 will be paid on these 
payments
dates.
Security
None
The bonds are debentures.
Sinking funds
Annual; begins 
The sinking funds will be sufficient to pay 
in 2005
80 percent of principal, the balance to be
paid at maturity.
Call provision
Not callable 
The bonds have a deferred call feature. 
before 12/31/05
After 12/31/05 the company can buy 
Call price: $1,100
back the bonds for $1,100 per bond.
Rating
Moody’s Aaa
This is Moody’s highest rating. The bonds 
have the lowest probability of default.
3The terms loan agreement or loan contract are usually used for privately placed debt and term loans.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
571
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
3. Details of the protective covenants.
4. The sinking-fund arrangements.
5. The call provision.
Each of these is discussed next.
The Basic Terms
Bonds usually have a face value of $1,000. This is also called the principal value or the de-
nomination and it is stated on the bond certificate. In addition, the par value (i.e., initial ac-
counting value) of a bond is almost always the same as the face value.
Transactions between bond buyers and bond sellers determine the market value of the
bond. Actual bond-market values depend on the general level of interest rates, among other
factors, and need not equal the face value. The bond price is quoted as a percentage of the
denomination. Though interest is paid only twice a year, interest accrues continually over
the year, and the quoted prices of a bond usually include accrued interest. This is illustrated
in the example below.
EXAMPLE
Suppose the Black Corporation has issued 100 bonds. The amount stated on each
bond certificate is $1,000. The total face value or principal value of the bonds is
$100,000. Further suppose the bonds are currently priced at 100, which means
100 percent of $1,000. This means that buyers and sellers are holding bonds at a
price per bond of $1,000. If interest rates rise, the price of the bond might fall to,
say, 97, which means 97 percent of $1,000, or $970.
Suppose the bonds have a stated interest rate of 12 percent due on January 1, 2050. The
bond indenture might read as follows:
The bond will mature on January 1, 2050, and will be limited in aggregate principal amount to
$100,000. Each bond will bear interest at the rate of 12.0% per annum from January 1, 1990,
or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or provided for.
Interest is payable semiannually on July 1 and January 1 of each year.
Suppose an investor buys the bonds on April 1. Since the last interest payment, on
January 1, three months of interest at 12 percent per year would have accrued. Because
interest of 12 percent a year works out to 1 percent per month, interest over the three
months is 3 percent. Therefore, the buyer of the bond must pay a price of 100 percent plus
the 3 percent of accrued interest ($30). On July 1 the buyer will receive an interest pay-
ment of $60. This can be viewed as the sum of the $30 he or she paid the seller plus the
three months of interest, $30, for holding the bond from April 1 to July 1.
As is typical of industrial bonds, the Black bonds are registered. The indenture might
read as follows:
Interest is payable semiannually on July 1 and January 1 of each year to the person in
whose name the bond is registered at the close of business on June 15 or December 15,
respectively.
This means that the company has a registrar who will record the ownership of each bond.
The company will pay the interest and principal by check mailed directly to the address of
the owner of record.
Chapter 20
Long-Term Debt
565

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
572
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
When a bond is registered with attached coupons, the bondholder must separate a
coupon from the bond certificate and send it to the company registrar (paying agent). Some
bonds are in bearer form. This means that ownership is not recorded in the company books.
As with a registered bond with attached coupons, the holder of the bond certificate sepa-
rates the coupon and sends it in to the company to receive payment.
There are two drawbacks to bearer bonds. First, they can be easily lost or stolen.
Second, because the company does not know who owns its bonds, it cannot notify bond-
holders of important events. Consider, for example, Mr. and Mrs. Smith, who go to their
safe-deposit box and clip the coupon on their 12-percent, $1,000 bond issued by the Black
Corporation. They send the coupon to the paying agent and feel richer. A few days later, a
notice comes from the paying agent that the bond was retired and its principal paid off one
year earlier. In other words, the bond no longer exists. Mr. and Mrs. Smith must forfeit one
year of interest. (Of course, they can turn their bond in for $1,000.)
However, bearer bonds have the advantage of secrecy because even the issuing com-
pany does not know who the bond’s owners are. This secrecy is particularly vexing to tax-
ing authorities because tax collection on interest is difficult if the holder is unknown.
Security
Debt securities are also classified according to the collateral protecting the bondholder. Col-
lateral is a general term for the assets that are pledged as a security for payment of debt. For
example, collateral trust bonds involve a pledge of common stock held by the corporation.
EXAMPLE
Suppose Railroad Holding Company owns all of the common stock of Track, Inc.;
that is, Track, Inc., is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Railroad Holding Com-
pany. Railroad issues debt securities that pledge the common stock of Track, Inc.,
as collateral. The debts are collateral trust bonds; U.S. Sur Bank will hold them. If
Railroad Holding Company defaults on the debt, U.S. Sur Bank will be able to sell
the stock of Track, Inc., to satisfy Railroad’s obligation.
Mortgage securities are secured by a mortgage on real estate or other long-term assets
of the borrower.4 The legal document that describes that mortgage is called a mortgage-
trust indenture or trust deed. The mortgage can be closed-end, so that there is a limit as to
the amount of bonds that can be issued. More frequently it is open-end, without limit to the
amount of bonds that may be issued.
EXAMPLE
Suppose the Miami Bond Company has buildings and land worth $10 million and
a $4 million mortgage on these properties. If the mortgage is closed-end, the Mi-
ami Bond Company cannot issue more bonds on this property.
If the bond indenture contains no clause limiting the amount of additional
bonds that can be issued, it is an open-end mortgage. In this case the Miami Bond
Company can issue additional bonds on its property, making the existing bonds
riskier. For example, if additional mortgage bonds of $2 million are issued, the
566
Part V
Long-Term Financing
4A set of railroad cars is an example of “other long-term assets” used as security.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
573
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
property has been pledged for a total of $6 million of bonds. If Miami Bond Com-
pany must liquidate its property for $4 million, the original bondholders will re-
ceive 4⁄6, or 67 percent, of their investment. If the mortgage had been closed-end,
they would have received 100 percent of the stated value.
The value of a mortgage depends on the market value of the underlying property.
Because of this, mortgage bonds sometimes require that the property be properly main-
tained and insured. Of course, a building and equipment bought in 1914 for manufacturing
slide rules might not have much value no matter how well the company maintains it. The
value of any property ultimately depends on its next best economic use. Bond indentures
cannot easily insure against losses in economic value.
Sometimes mortgages are on specific property, for example, a single building. More
often, blanket mortgages are used. A blanket mortgage pledges many assets owned by the
company.
Some bonds represent unsecured obligations of the company. A debenture is an unse-
cured bond, where no specific pledge of property is made. Debenture holders have a claim
on property not otherwise pledged: the property that remains after mortgages and collateral
trusts are taken into account. At the current time, almost all public bonds issued by indus-
trial and finance companies are debentures. However, most utility and railroad bonds are
secured by a pledge of assets.
Protective Covenants
A protective covenant is that part of the indenture or loan agreement that limits certain ac-
tions of the borrowing company. Protective covenants can be classified into two types: neg-
ative covenants and positive covenants. A negative covenant limits or prohibits actions that
the company may take. Here are some typical examples:
1. Limitations are placed on the amount of dividends a company may pay.
2. The firm cannot pledge any of its assets to other lenders.
3. The firm cannot merge with another firm.
4. The firm may not sell or lease its major assets without approval by the lender.
5. The firm cannot issue additional long-term debt.
A positive covenant specifies an action that the company agrees to take or a condition the
company must abide by. Here are some examples:
1. The company agrees to maintain its working capital at a minimum level.
2. The company must furnish periodic financial statements to the lender.
The financial implications of protective covenants were treated in detail in the chapters
on capital structure. In that discussion, we argued that protective covenants can benefit
stockholders because, if bondholders are assured that they will be protected in times of fi-
nancial stress, they will accept a lower interest rate.
The Sinking Fund
Bonds can be entirely repaid at maturity, at which time the bondholder will receive the stated
value of the bond, or they can be repaid before maturity. Early repayment is more typical.
In a direct placement of debt the repayment schedule is specified in the loan contract. For
public issues, the repayment takes place through the use of a sinking fund and a call provision.
Chapter 20
Long-Term Debt
567

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
574
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
A sinking fund is an account managed by the bond trustee for the purpose of repaying
the bonds. Typically, the company makes yearly payments to the trustee. The trustee can
purchase bonds in the market or can select bonds randomly using a lottery and purchase
them, generally at face value. There are many different kinds of sinking-fund arrangements:
• Most sinking funds start between 5 and 10 years after the initial issuance.
• Some sinking funds establish equal payments over the life of the bond.
• Most high-quality bond issues establish payments to the sinking fund that are not
sufficient to redeem the entire issue. As a consequence, there is the possibility of a
large balloon payment at maturity.
Sinking funds have two opposing effects on bondholders:
1. Sinking Funds Provide Extra Protection to Bondholders. A firm experiencing financial
difficulties would have trouble making sinking-fund payments. Thus, sinking-fund pay-
ments provide an early warning system to bondholders.
2. Sinking Funds Give the Firm an Attractive Option. If bond prices fall below the face
value, the firm will satisfy the sinking fund by buying bonds at the lower market prices.
If bond prices rise above the face value, the firm will buy the bonds back at the lower
face value.
The Call Provision
A call provision lets the company repurchase or call the entire bond issue at a predeter-
mined price over a specified period.
Generally, the call price is above the bond’s face value of $1,000. The difference be-
tween the call price and the face value is the call premium. For example, if the call price
is 105, that is, 105 percent of $1,000, the call premium is 50. The amount of the call pre-
mium usually becomes smaller over time. One typical arrangement is to set the call pre-
mium initially equal to the annual coupon payment and then make it decline to zero over
the life of the bond.
Call provisions are not usually operative during the first few years of a bond’s life. For
example, a company may be prohibited from calling its bonds for the first 10 years. This is
referred to as a deferred call. During this period the bond is said to be call-protected.
• Do bearer bonds have any advantage? Why might Mr. “I Like to Keep My Affairs Private”
prefer to hold bearer bonds?
• What advantages and what disadvantages do bondholders derive from provisions of sink-
ing funds?
• What is a call provision? What is the difference between the call price and the stated price?
20.3 BOND REFUNDING
Replacing all or part of an issue of outstanding bonds is called bond refunding. Usually,
the first step in a typical bond refunding is to call the entire issue of bonds at the call price.
Bond refunding raises two questions:
1. Should firms issue callable bonds?
2. Given that callable bonds have been issued, when should the bonds be called?
We attempt to answer these questions in this section.
568
Part V
Long-Term Financing
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
575
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Should Firms Issue Callable Bonds?
Common sense tells us that call provisions have value. First, many publicly issued bonds
have call provisions. Second, it is obvious that a call works to the advantage of the issuer.
If interest rates fall and bond prices go up, the option to buy back the bonds at the call price
is valuable. In bond refunding, firms will typically replace the called bonds with a new bond
issue. The new bonds will have a lower coupon rate than the called bonds.
However, bondholders will take the call provision into account when they buy the
bond. For this reason, we can expect that bondholders will demand higher interest rates on
callable bonds than on noncallable bonds. In fact, financial economists view call provisions
as being zero-sum in efficient capital markets.5 Any expected gains to the issuer from be-
ing allowed to refund the bond at lower rates will be offset by higher initial interest rates.
We illustrate the zero-sum aspect to callable bonds in the following example.
EXAMPLE
Suppose Kraus Intercable Company intends to issue perpetual bonds of $1,000
face value at a 10-percent interest rate.6 Annual coupons have been set at $100.
There is an equal chance that by the end of the year interest rates will do one of
the following:
1. Fall to 6 2/3 percent. If so, the bond price will increase to $1,500.
2. Increase to 20 percent. If so, the bond price will fall to $500.
Noncallable Bond
Suppose the market price of the noncallable bond is the expected price
it will have next year plus the coupon, all discounted at the current 10-percent interest rate.7
The value of the noncallable bond is
Value of Noncallable Bond:
 $1,000
Callable Bond
Now suppose the Kraus Intercable Company decides to issue callable
bonds. The call premium is set at $100 over par value and the bonds can be called only at
the end of the first year.8 In this case, the call provision will allow the company to buy back
its bonds at $1,100 ($1,000 par value plus the $100 call premium). Should interest rates fall,
the company will buy a bond for $1,100 that would be worth $1,500 in the absence of a call
provision. Of course, if interest rates rise, Kraus would not want to call the bonds for $1,100
because they are worth only $500 on the market.
 $100  0.5  $1,500  0.5  $500
1.10
First-year coupon  Expected price at end of year
1  r
Chapter 20
Long-Term Debt
569
5See A. Kraus, “An Analysis of Call Provisions and the Corporate Refunding Decision,” Midland Corporate
Finance Journal 1 (Spring 1983), p. 1.
6Recall that perpetual bonds have no maturity date.
7We are assuming that the current price of the noncallable bonds is the expected value discounted at the risk-
free rate of 10 percent. This is equivalent to assuming that the risk is unsystematic and carries no risk premium.
8Normally, bonds can be called over a period of many years. Our assumption that the bond can only be called at
the end of the first year was introduced for simplicity.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
576
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Suppose rates fall and Kraus calls the bonds by paying $1,100. If the firm simultane-
ously issues new bonds with a coupon of $100, it will bring in $1,500 ($100/0.0667) at the
6 2/3-percent interest rate. This will allow Kraus to pay an extra dividend to shareholders
of $400 ($1,500  $1,100). In other words, if rates fall from 10 percent to 6 2/3 percent,
exercise of the call will transfer $400 of potential bondholder gains to the shareholders.
When investors purchase callable bonds, they realize that they will forfeit their antici-
pated gains to shareholders if the bonds are called. As a consequence, they will not pay
$1,000 for a callable bond with a coupon of $100.
How high must the coupon on the callable bond be so that it can be issued at the par
value of $1,000? We can answer this in three steps.
Step 1: Determining End-of-Year Value if Interest Rates Drop
If the interest rate drops
to 6 2/3 percent by the end of the year, the bond will be called for $1,100. The bondholder
will receive both this and the annual coupon payment. If we let C represent the coupon on
the callable bond, the bondholder gets the following at the end of the year:
$1,100  C
Step 2: Determining End-of-Year Value if Interest Rates Rise
If interest rates rise to 20
percent, the value of the bondholder’s position at the end of the year is:
That is, the perpetuity formula tells us that the bond will sell at C/0.20. In addition, the
bondholder receives the coupon payment at the end of the year.
Step 3: Solving for C
Because interest rates are equally likely to rise or to fall, the ex-
pected value of the bondholder’s end-of-year position is
Using the current interest rate of 10 percent, we set the present value of these payments
equal to par:
C is the unknown in the equation. The equation holds if C  $157.14. In other words,
callable bonds can sell at par only if their coupon rate is 15.714 percent.
The Paradox Restated
If Kraus issues a noncallable bond, it will only need to pay a
10-percent interest rate. By contrast, Kraus must pay an interest rate of 15.7 percent on a
callable bond. The interest-rate differential makes an investor indifferent whether she
buys one of the two bonds in our example or the other. Because the return to the investor
is the same with either bond, the cost of debt capital is the same to Kraus with either bond.
Thus, our example suggests that there is neither an advantage nor a disadvantage from is-
suing callable bonds.
Why, therefore, are callable bonds issued in the real world? This question has vexed fi-
nancial economists for a long time. We now consider four specific reasons why a company
might use a call provision:
1. Superior interest-rate predictions.
2. Taxes.
$1,000 
$1,100  C  0.5  
C
0.20  C  0.5
1.10
$1,100  C  0.5  
C
0.20  C  0.5
C
0.20  C
570
Part V
Long-Term Financing

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
577
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
3. Financial flexibility for future investment opportunities.
4. Less interest-rate risk.
Superior Interest-Rate Forecasting
Company insiders may know more about interest-
rate changes on its bonds than does the investing public. For example, managers may be
better informed about potential changes in the firm’s credit rating. Thus, a company may
prefer the call provision at a particular time because it believes that the expected fall in in-
terest rates (the probability of a fall multiplied by the amount of the fall) is greater than the
bondholders believe.
Although this is possible, there is reason to doubt that inside information is the ration-
ale for call provisions. Suppose firms really had superior ability to predict changes that
would affect them. Bondholders would infer that a company expected an improvement in
its credit rating whenever it issued callable bonds. Bondholders would require an increase
in the coupon rate to protect them against a call if this occurred. As a result, we would ex-
pect that there would be no financial advantage to the firm from callable bonds over non-
callable bonds.
Of course, there are many non–company-specific reasons why interest rates can fall.
For example, the interest-rate level is connected to the anticipated inflation rate. But it is
difficult to see how companies could have more information about the general level of in-
terest rates than other participants in the bond markets.
Taxes
Call provisions may have tax advantages if the bondholder is taxed at a lower rate
than the company. We have seen that callable bonds have higher coupon rates than non-
callable bonds. Because the coupons provide a deductible interest expense to the corpora-
tion and are taxable income to the bondholder, the corporation will gain more than a bond-
holder in a low tax bracket will lose. Presumably, some of the tax saving can be passed on
to the bondholders in the form of a high coupon.
Future Investment Opportunities
As we have explained, bond indentures contain pro-
tective covenants that restrict a company’s investment opportunities. For example, protec-
tive covenants may limit the company’s ability to acquire another firm or to sell certain as-
sets (for example, a division of the company). If the covenants are sufficiently restrictive,
the cost to the shareholders in lost net present value can be large. However, if bonds are
callable, the company can buy back the bonds at the call price and take advantage of a su-
perior investment opportunity.9
Less Interest-Rate Risk
The call provision will reduce the sensitivity of a bond’s value
to changes in the level of interest rates. As interest rates increase, the value of a noncallable
bond will fall. Because the callable bond has a higher coupon rate, the value of a callable
bond will fall less than the value of a noncallable bond. Kraus has argued that, by reducing
the sensitivity of a bond’s value to changes in interest rates, the call provision may reduce
the risk of shareholders as well as bondholders.10 He argues that, because the bond is a li-
ability of the corporation, the equityholders bear risk as the bond changes value over time.
Thus, it can be shown that, under certain conditions, reducing the risk of bonds through a
call provision will also reduce the risk of equity.
Chapter 20
Long-Term Debt
571
9This argument is from Z. Bodie and R. A. Taggart, “Future Investment Opportunities and the Value of the Call
Provision on a Bond,” Journal of Finance 33 (1978), p. 4.
10A. Kraus, “An Analysis of Call Provisions and the Corporate Refunding Decision,” Midland Corporate Finance
Journal 1 (Spring 1983). Kraus points out that the call provision will not always reduce the equity’s interest-rate
risk. If the firm as a whole bears interest-rate risk, more of this risk may be shifted from equityholders to
bondholders with noncallable debt. In this case, equityholders may actually bear more risk with callable debt.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
578
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Calling Bonds: When Does It Make Sense?
The value of the company is the value of the stock plus the value of the bonds. From the
Modigliani-Miller theory and the pie model in earlier chapters, we know that firm value is un-
changed by how it is divided between these two instruments. Therefore, maximizing share-
holder wealth means minimizing the value of the callable bond. In a world with no transac-
tion costs, it can be shown that the company should call its bonds whenever the callable-bond
value exceeds the call price. This policy minimizes the value of the callable bonds.
The preceding analysis is modified slightly by including the costs from issuing new
bonds. These extra costs change the refunding rule to allow bonds to trade at prices above the
call price. The objective of the company is to minimize the sum of the value of the callable
bonds plus new issue costs. It has been observed that many real-world firms do not call their
bonds when the market value of the bonds reaches the call price. Instead, they wait until the
market value of the bonds exceeds the call price. Perhaps these issue costs are an explanation.
Also, when a bond is called, the holder has about 30 days to surrender the bond and receive
the call price in cash. In 30 days the market value of the bonds could fall below the call price.
If so, the firm is giving away money. To forestall this possibility, it can be argued that firms
should wait until the market value of the bond exceeds the call price before calling bonds.
• What are the advantages to a firm of having a call provision?
• What are the disadvantages to bondholders of having a call provision?
20.4 BOND RATINGS
Firms frequently pay to have their debt rated. The two leading bond-rating firms are Moody’s
Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s. The debt ratings depend upon (1) the likelihood
that the firm will default and (2) the protection afforded by the loan contract in the event of
default. The ratings are constructed from information supplied by the corporation, primarily
the financial statements of the firm. The rating classes are shown in the accompanying box.
The highest rating debt can have is AAA or Aaa. Debt rated AAA or Aaa is judged to
be the best quality and to have the lowest degree of risk. The lowest rating is D, which indi-
cates that the firm is in default. Since the 1980s, a growing part of corporate borrowing has
taken the form of low-grade bonds. These bonds are also known as either high-yield bonds
or junk bonds. Low-grade bonds are corporate bonds that are rated below investment grade
by the major rating agencies (that is, below BBB for Standard & Poor’s or Baa for Moody’s).
Bond ratings are important, because bonds with lower ratings tend to have higher in-
terest costs. However, the most recent evidence is that bond ratings merely reflect bond risk.
There is no conclusive evidence that bond ratings affect risk.11 It is not surprising that the
stock prices and bond prices of firms do not show any unusual behavior on the days around
a rating change. Because the ratings are based on publicly available information, they prob-
ably do not, in themselves, supply new information to the market.12
572
Part V
Long-Term Financing
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?
11M. Weinstein, “The Systematic Risk of Corporate Bonds,” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis
(September 1981); J. P. Ogden, “Determinants of Relative Interest Rate Sensitivity of Corporate Bonds,”
Financial Management (Spring 1987); and F. Reilly and M. Joehnk, “The Association between Market-Based
Risk Measures for Bonds and Bond Ratings,” Journal of Finance (December 1976).
12M. Weinstein, “The Effect of a Ratings Change Announcement on Bond Price,” Journal of Financial
Economics 5 (1977). However, Robert W. Holthausen and Richard W. Leftwich, “The Effect of Bond Rating
Changes on Common Stock Prices,” Journal of Financial Economics 17 (September 1986), find that bond rating
downgrades are associated with abnormal negative returns of the stock of the issuing firm.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
579
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Junk Bonds
The investment community has labeled bonds with a Standard & Poor’s rating of BB and be-
low or a Moody’s rating of Ba and below as junk bonds. These bonds are also called high-
yield or low-grade and we shall use all three terms interchangeably. Issuance of junk bonds has
grown greatly in recent years, leading to increased public interest in this form of financing.
Table 20.1 presents data on junk-bond financing in the recent past. Column (1) shows
the great growth in junk-bond issuance over a 27-year period. Column (3) shows the default
rate on junk bonds increased from 1.24 percent in 1971 to 10.27 percent in 1991. In 1999
the default rate was 4.1 percent. Table 20.2 presents data on default rates by Standard &
Poor’s on cumulative bases for 10 years. It shows that junk bonds can have a 10-year cu-
mulative (if rated CCC) rate of 48.4 percent.
Chapter 20
Long-Term Debt
573
BOND RATINGS
Very High
High
Specu-
Very
Quality
Quality
lative
Poor
Standard & Poor’s
AAA AA
A BBB
BB B 
CCC CC C D
Moody’s
Aaa Aa
A Baa
Ba B
Caa Ca C D
At times both Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s adjust these ratings. S&P uses plus and
minus signs: A is the strongest A rating and A the weakest. Moody’s uses a 1, 2, or 3 
designation, with 1 indicating the strongest.
Moody’s
S&P
Aaa
AAA
Debt rated Aaa and AAA has the highest rating. Capacity to pay interest
and principal is extremely strong.
Aa
AA
Debt rated Aa and AA has a very strong capacity to pay interest and
repay principal. Together with the highest rating, this group comprises
the high-grade bond class.
A
A
Debt rated A has a strong capacity to pay interest and repay principal.
However, it is somewhat more susceptible to adverse changes in
circumstances and economic conditions.
Baa
BBB
Debt rated Baa and BBB is regarded as having an adequate capacity to
pay interest and repay principal. Whereas it normally exhibits adequate
protection parameters, adverse economic conditions or changing
circumstances are more likely to lead to a weakened capacity to pay
interest and repay principal for debt in this category than in higher-rated
categories. These bonds are medium grade obligations.
Ba
BB
Debt rated in these categories is regarded, on balance, as 
B
B
predominantly speculative. Ba and BB indicate the lowest degree of 
Caa
CCC
speculation, and Ca and CC the highest. Although such debt is likely 
Ca
CC
to have some quality and protective characteristics, these are outweighed
by large uncertainties or major risk exposure to adverse conditions.
C
C
This rating is reserved for income bonds on which no interest is being paid.
D
D
Debt rated D is in default, and payment of interest and/or repayment of
principal is in arrears.
Data from various editions of Standard & Poor’s Bond Guide and Moody’s Bond Guide.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
580
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
In our opinion, the growth in junk-bond financing in the 1970s and 1980s can better be
explained by the activities of one man than by a number of economic factors. While a grad-
uate student at the Wharton School in the 1970s, Michael Milken observed a large differ-
ence between the return on high-yield bonds and the return on safer bonds. Believing that
this difference was greater than what the extra default risk would justify, he concluded that
institutional investors would benefit from purchases of junk bonds.
His later employment at Drexel Burnham Lambert allowed him to develop the junk-bond
market. Milken’s salesmanship simultaneously increased the demand for junk bonds among
institutional investors and the supply of junk bonds among corporations. Corporations were
particularly impressed with Drexel’s vast network of institutional clients, allowing capital to
be raised quickly. However, with the demise of the junk-bond market and with Michael
Milken’s conviction of securities fraud, Drexel found it necessary to declare bankruptcy.
The junk-bond market took on increased importance when these bonds were used to
finance mergers and other corporate restructurings. Whereas a firm can only issue a small
amount of high-grade debt, the same firm can issue much more debt if low-grade financing
is allowed as well. Therefore, the use of junk bonds lets acquirers effect takeovers that they
I TABLE 20.1 Junk bonds: 1971–1999
Par Value
Par Value
Default
Year
Outstanding (a)
Defaults
Rates
1999
$567,400
$23,532
4.147%
1998
$465,500
$ 7,464
1.603%
1997
$335,400
$ 4,200
1.252%
1996
$271,000
$ 3,336
1.231%
1995
$240,000
$ 4,551
1.896%
1994
$235,000
$ 3,418
1.454%
1993
$206,907
$ 2,287
1.105%
1992
$163,000
$ 5,545
3.402%
1991
$183,600
$18,862
10.273%
1990
$181,000
$18,354
10.140%
1989
$189,258
$ 8,110
4.285%
1988
$148,187
$ 3,944
2.662%
1987
$129,557
$ 7,486
5.778%
1986
$ 90,243
$ 3,156
3.497%
1985
$ 58,088
$
992
1.708%
1984
$ 40,939
$
344
0.840%
1983
$ 27,492
$
301
1.095%
1982
$ 18,109
$
577
3.186%
1981
$ 17,115
$
27
0.158%
1980
$ 14,935
$
224
1.500%
1979
$ 10,356
$
20
0.193%
1978
$
8,946
$
119
1.330%
1977
$
8,157
$
381
4.671%
1976
$
7,735
$
30
0.388%
1975
$
7,471
$
204
2.731%
1974
$ 10,894
$
123
1.129%
1973
$
7,824
$
49
0.626%
1972
$
6,928
$
193
2.786%
1971
$
6,602
$
82
1.242%
Source: Edward I. Altman’s compilation and Salomon Smith Barney estimates.
574
Part V
Long-Term Financing

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
581
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
IN THEIR OWN WORDS
Edward I. Altman on Junk Bonds
O
ne of the most important developments in corporate
finance over the last 20 years has been the reemer-
gence of publicly owned and traded low-rated corporate
debt. Originally offered to the public in the early 1900s
to help finance some of our emerging growth industries,
these high-yield/high-risk bonds virtually disappeared
after the rash of bond defaults during the Depression.
Recently, however, the junk-bond market has been cata-
pulted from an insignificant element in the corporate
fixed income market to one of the fastest growing and
most controversial types of financing mechanisms.
The term junk emanates from the dominant type of
low-rated bond issues outstanding prior to 1977 when the
“market” consisted almost exclusively of original-issue
investment-grade bonds that fell from their lofty status to
a higher default risk, speculative-grade level. These so-
called “fallen angels” amounted to about $8.5 billion in
1977. At the beginning of 1998, fallen angels comprised
about 10 percent of the $450 billion publicly owned
junk-bond market.
Beginning in 1977, issuers began to go directly to the
public to raise capital for growth purposes. Early users of
junk bonds were energy-related firms, cable TV
companies, airlines, and assorted other industrial
companies. The emerging growth company rationale,
coupled with relatively high returns to early investors,
helped legitimize this sector. Most investment banks
ignored junk bonds until 1983–1984, when their merits
and profit potential became more evident.
Synonymous with the market’s growth was the
emergence of the investment banking firm Drexel Burnham
Lambert, and its junk-bond wizard, Michael Milken. Drexel
established a potent network of issuers and investors and
rode the wave of new financing and the consequent surge in
secondary trading to become one of the powerful invest-
ment banks in the late 1980s. The incredible rise in power
of this firm was followed by an equally incredible fall,
resulting first in government civil and criminal convictions
and huge fines for various misdealings and, finally, the
firm’s total collapse and bankruptcy in February 1990.
By far the most controversial aspect of junk-bond
financing was its role in the corporate restructuring
movement from 1985–1989. High-leverage transactions,
such as leveraged buyouts (LBOs), which occur when a
firm is taken private, transformed the face of corporate
America, leading to a heated debate as to the economic
and social consequences of corporate control changes
with debt/equity ratios of at least 6:1.
These transactions involved increasingly large
companies, and the multibillion dollar takeover became
fairly common, capped by the huge $25 billion RJR
Nabisco LBO in 1989. LBOs were typically financed with
60-percent senior bank and insurance company debt, about
25–30-percent subordinated public debt (junk bonds), and
10–15-percent equity. The junk-bond segment is sometimes
referred to as “mezzanine” financing because it lies between
the “balcony” senior debt and the “basement” equity.
These restructurings resulted in large fees to advisors
and underwriters and huge premiums to the old share-
holders, and they continued as long as the market was
willing to buy these new debt offerings at what appeared to
be a favorable risk/return trade-off. The bottom fell out of
the market in the last six months of 1989 due to a number of
factors including a marked increase in defaults, government
regulation against S&Ls holding junk bonds, higher interest
rates, a recession, and, finally, the growing realization of the
leverage excesses of certain ill-conceived restructurings.
The default rate rose dramatically to over 4 percent in
1989 and then skyrocketed in 1990 and 1991 to over 10
percent each year, with about $19 billion of defaults in
1991. Throughout 1990, the pendulum of growth in the
new junk-bond issues and returns to investors swung
dramatically downward as prices plummeted and the new
issue market all but dried up. The following year (1991)
was a pivotal period in that despite record defaults, bond
prices and new issues rebounded strongly as the
prospects for the future brightened.
In the early 1990s, the financial market was ques-
tioning the very survival of the junk-bond market. The
answer was a resounding “Yes,” as the amount of new
issuance soared to record annual levels of $38 billion in
1992 and has steadily grown to an incredible $120 billion
in 1997! Coupled with plummeting annual default rates
(under 2.0 percent from 1993–1997 compared to 3.5
percent for 1971–1997) and returns in these years between
10–20 percent, the risk-return characteristics have been
extremely favorable. Newer dimensions of the junk-bond
market include the pooling of large numbers of bonds into
collateralized bond obligations (CBOs), the establishment
of emerging market international issuance, and the now
common use of the nonregistered 144A new issuance
mechanism. The junk-bond market in the late 1990s is a
quieter one compared to the 1980s, but, in terms of growth
and returns, it is healthier than ever before.
Dr. Edward I. Altman is Max L. Heine Professor of Finance and
Vice Director of the Salomon Center at the Stern School of
Business of New York University. He is widely recognized as
one of the world’s experts on bankruptcy and credit analysis as
well as the high-yield or junk-bond market.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
582
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
could not do with only traditional bond-financing techniques. Drexel was particularly suc-
cessful with this technique, primarily because their huge base of institutional clients al-
lowed them to raise large sums of money quickly.
At this time, it is not clear how the great growth in junk-bond financing has altered the
returns on these instruments. On the one hand, financial theory indicates that the expected
returns on an asset should be negatively related to its marketability.13 Because trading vol-
ume in junk bonds has greatly increased in recent years, the marketability has risen as well.
This should lower the expected return on junk bonds, thereby benefiting corporate issuers.
On the other hand, the increased interest in junk-bond financing by corporations (the in-
crease in the supply schedule of junk bonds) is likely to raise the expected returns on these
assets. The net effect of these two forces is unclear.14
Junk-bond financing has recently created much controversy. First, because the use of
junk bonds increases the firm’s interest deduction, Congress and the IRS have registered
strong disapproval. Several legislators have suggested denying interest deductibility on
576
Part V
Long-Term Financing
13For example, see Y. Amihud and H. Mendelson, “Asset Pricing and the Bid-Ask Spread,” Journal of Financial
Economics (December 1986).
14The actual risk of junk bonds is not known with certainty because it is not easy to measure default rate. Paul
Asquith, David W. Mullins, Jr., and Eric D. Wolff, “Original Issue High Yield Bonds: Aging Analysis of
Defaults, Exchanges, and Calls,” Journal of Finance (September 1989), show that the default rate on junk bonds
can be greater than 30 percent over the life of the bond. They look at cumulative default rates and find that of all
junk bonds issued in 1977 and 1978, 34 percent had defaulted by December 31, 1988. Table 20.1 shows yearly
default rates. Edward I. Altman, “Setting the Record Straight on Junk Bonds: A Review of the Research on
Default Rates and Returns,” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance (Summer 1990), shows that yearly default
rates of 5 percent are consistent with cumulative default rates of over 30 percent.
I TABLE 20.2 Defaults by Original Rating—All Rated Corporate Bonds*
(1971–1999)
Years after Issuance
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
AAA
Yearly
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.04%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
Cumulative
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.04%
0.04%
0.04%
0.04%
0.04%
0.04%
AA
Yearly
0.00%
0.00%
0.36%
0.20%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.03%
0.03%
Cumulative
0.00%
0.00%
0.36%
0.56%
0.56%
0.56%
0.57%
0.57%
0.60%
0.62%
A
Yearly
0.00%
0.00%
0.03%
0.08%
0.04%
0.08%
0.05%
0.09%
0.07%
0.00%
Cumulative
0.00%
0.00%
0.03%
0.11%
0.15%
0.23%
0.29%
0.38%
0.45%
0.45%
BBB
Yearly
0.07%
0.25%
0.27%
0.53%
0.32%
0.32%
0.35%
0.06%
0.06%
0.24%
Cumulative
0.07%
0.32%
0.58%
1.12%
1.43%
1.75%
2.09%
2.15%
2.20%
2.44%
BB
Yearly
0.71%
0.81%
2.65%
1.41%
2.35%
0.80%
1.71%
0.30%
1.45%
3.03%
Cumulative
0.71%
1.51%
4.12%
5.47%
7.69%
8.44%
10.00%
10.27%
11.58% 14.25%
B
Yearly
1.58%
3.92%
4.88%
5.78%
4.62%
3.65%
2.38%
1.77%
1.54%
0.92%
Cumulative
1.58%
5.43%
10.05%
15.25%
19.17%
22.12%
23.98%
25.33%
26.48% 27.15%
CCC
Yearly
1.63%
13.60%
15.16%
8.27%
3.05%
8.96%
4.02%
3.36%
0.00%
3.56%
Cumulative
1.63%
15.01%
27.89%
33.86%
36.07%
42.21%
44.53%
46.39%
46.39% 48.38%
*Rated by S & P at issuance.
Based on 802 issues.
Source: Standard & Poor’s (New York) and Edward I. Altman’s compilation.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
583
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
577
I TABLE 20.3 Average Gross Spreads and Total Direct Costs for Domestic Debt Issues: 1990–94
Convertible Bonds
Straight Bonds
Investment Grade
Noninvestment Grade
Investment Grade
Noninvestment Grade
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
____________________
Total
Total
Total
Total
Proceeds
Number
Gross
Direct
Number
Gross
Direct
Number
Gross
Direct
Number
Gross
Direct
($ in millions)
of Issues
Spread
Cost
of Issues
Spread
Cost
of Issues
Spread
Cost
of Issues
Spread
Cost
2–
9.99
0
—
—
0
—
—
14
.58%
2.19%
0
—
—%
10– 19.99
0
—
—
1
4.00%
5.67%
56
.50
1.19
2
5.13%
7.41%
20– 39.99
1
1.75%
2.75%
9
3.29
4.92
64
.86
1.48
9
3.11
4.42
40– 59.99
3
1.92
2.43
19
3.37
4.58
78
.47
.94
9
2.48
3.35
60– 79.99
4
1.31
1.76
41
2.76
3.37
49
.61
.98
43
3.07
3.84
80– 99.99
2
1.07
1.34
10
2.83
3.48
65
.66
.94
47
2.78
3.75
100– 199.99
20
2.03
2.33
37
2.51
3.00
181
.57
.81
222
2.75
3.44
200– 499.99
17
1.71
1.87
10
2.46
2.70
60
.50
.93
105
2.56
2.96
500 and up
3
2.00
2.09
0
—
—
11
.39
.57
9
2.60
2.90
___
____
____
___
____
____
___
___
____
___
____
____
Total
50
1.81%
2.09%
127
2.81%
3.53%
578
.58%
.94%
446
2.75%
3.42%
Source: Inmoo Lee, Scott Lochhead, Jay Ritter, and Quanshui Zhao, “The Costs of Raising Capital,” Journal of Financial Research 1 (Spring 1996).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
584
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
junk bonds, particularly when the bonds are used to finance mergers. Second, the media has
focused on the effect of junk-bond financing on corporate solvency. Clearly, this form of fi-
nancing permits the possibility of higher debt-equity ratios. Whether or not this increased
leverage will lead to wholesale defaults in an economic downturn, as some commentators
have suggested, remains to be seen. Third, the recent wave of mergers has often resulted in
dislocations and loss of jobs. Because junk-bond financing has played a role in mergers, it
has come under much criticism. The social policy implications of mergers are quite com-
plex, and any final judgment on them is likely to be reserved for the distant future. At any
rate, junk-bond financing should not be implicated too strongly in either the social benefits
or the social costs of the recent wave of mergers. Perry and Taggart point out that, contrary
to popular belief, this form of financing accounts for only a few percent of all mergers.15
We discussed the costs of issuing securities in Chapter 19 and established that the costs
of issuing debt are substantially less than the costs of issuing equity. Table 20.3 clarifies sev-
eral questions regarding the costs of issuing debt securities. It contains a breakdown of direct
costs for bond issues after the investment and noninvestment grades have been separated.
First, there are substantial economies of scale here as well. Second, investment-grade is-
sues have much lower direct costs, particularly for straight bonds. Finally, there are relatively
few noninvestment-grade issues in the smaller size categories, reflecting the fact that such is-
sues are more commonly handled as private placements, which we discuss in a later section.
• List and describe the different bond-rating classes.
• Why don’t bond prices change when bond ratings change?
• Are the costs of bond issues related to their ratings?
20.5 SOME DIFFERENT TYPES OF BONDS
Until now we have considered “plain vanilla” bonds. In this section we look at some more
unusual types: floating-rate bonds, deep-discount bonds, and income bonds.
Floating-Rate Bonds
The conventional bonds we have discussed in this chapter have fixed-dollar obligations.
That is, the coupon rate is set as a fixed percentage of the par value.
With floating-rate bonds, the coupon payments are adjustable. The adjustments are tied to
an interest-rate index such as the Treasury-bill interest rate or the 30-year Treasury-bond rate.
For example, in 1974 Citibank issued $850 million of floating-rate notes maturing in 1989. The
coupon rate was set at 1 percent above the 90-day Treasury-bill rate and adjusted semiannually.
In most cases the coupon adjusts with a lag to some base rate. For example, suppose a
coupon-rate adjustment is made on June 1. The adjustment may be from a simple average
of yields on six-month Treasury bills issued during March, April, and May. In addition, the
majority of these floaters have put provisions and floor-and-ceiling provisions:
1. With a put provision the holder has the right to redeem his or her note at par on the
coupon payment date. Frequently, the investor is prohibited from redeeming at par dur-
ing the first few years of the bond’s life.
2. With floor-and-ceiling provisions the coupon rate is subject to a minimum and maxi-
mum. For example, the minimum coupon rate might be 8 percent and the maximum rate
might be 14 percent.
578
Part V
Long-Term Financing
15K. Perry and R. Taggart, “The Growing Role of Junk Bonds in Corporate Finance,” Journal of Applied
Corporate Finance (Spring 1988).
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
585
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The popularity of floating-rate bonds is connected to inflation risk. When inflation is
higher than expected, issuers of fixed-rate bonds tend to make gains at the expense of
lenders, and when inflation is less than expected, lenders make gains at the expense of bor-
rowers. Because the inflation risk of long-term bonds is borne by both issuers and bond-
holders, it is in their interests to devise loan agreements that minimize inflation risk.16
Floaters reduce inflation risk because the coupon rate is tied to the current interest rate,
which, in turn, is influenced by the rate of inflation. This can most clearly be seen by consider-
ing the formula for the present value of a bond. As inflation increases the interest rate (the 
denominator of the formula), inflation increases a floater’s coupon rate (the numerator of the for-
mula). Hence, bond value is hardly affected by inflation. Conversely, the coupon rate of fixed-rate
bonds cannot change, implying that the prices of these bonds are at the mercy of inflation.
As an alternative, an individual who is concerned with inflation risk can invest in short-
term notes, such as Treasury bills, and roll them over.17 The investor can accomplish es-
sentially the same objective by buying a floater that is adjusted to the Treasury-bill rate.
However, the purchaser of a floater can reduce transactions costs relative to rolling over
short-term Treasury bills because floaters are long-term bonds. The same type of reduction
in transactions costs makes floaters attractive to some corporations.18 They benefit from is-
suing a floater instead of issuing a series of short-term notes.
In an earlier section, we discussed callable bonds. Because the coupon on floaters
varies with marketwide interest rates, floaters always sell at or near par. Therefore, it is not
surprising that floaters do not generally have call features.
Deep-Discount Bonds
A bond that pays no coupon must be offered at a price that is much lower than its face
value. Such bonds are known as original-issue discount bonds, deep-discount bonds,
pure-discount bonds, or zero-coupon bonds. They are frequently called zeros for short.
Suppose the DDB Company issues $1,000 of five-year deep-discount bonds when the
marketwide interest rate is 10 percent. These bonds do not pay any coupons. The initial
price is set at $621 because $621  $1,000/(1.10)5.
Because these bonds have no intermediate coupon payments, they are quite attractive
to certain investors and quite unattractive to others. For example, consider an insurance
company forecasting death-benefit payments of $1,000,000 five years from today. The
company would like to be sure that it will have the funds to pay off the liability in five years’
time. The company could buy five-year zero-coupon bonds with a face value of $1,000,000.
The company is matching assets with liabilities here, a procedure that eliminates interest-
rate risk. That is, regardless of the movement of interest rates, the firm’s set of zeros will al-
ways be able to pay off the $1,000,000 liability.
Conversely, the firm would be at risk if it bought coupon bonds instead. For example,
if it bought five-year coupon bonds, it would need to reinvest the coupon payments through
to the fifth year. Because interest rates in the future are not known with certainty today, one
cannot be sure if these bonds will be worth more or less than $1,000,000 by the fifth year.
Now, consider a couple saving for their child’s college education in 15 years. They ex-
pect that, with inflation, four years of college should cost $150,000 in 15 years. Thus, they
Chapter 20
Long-Term Debt
579
16See B. Cornell, “The Future of Floating Rate Bonds,” in The Revolution in Corporate Finance, ed. by J. M.
Stern and D. H. Chew, Jr. (New York: Basil Blackwell, 1986).
17That is, the investor could buy a bill, receive the face value at maturity, use these proceeds to buy a second
bill, receive the face value from the second bill at maturity, and so on.
18Cox, Ingersoll, and Ross developed a framework for pricing floating-rate notes; see J. Cox, J. Ingersoll, and
S. A. Ross, “An Analysis of Variable Rate Loan Contracts,” Journal of Finance 35 (May 1980).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
586
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
580
Part V
Long-Term Financing
buy 15-year zero-coupon bonds with a face value of $150,000.19 If they have forecasted in-
flation perfectly (and if college costs keep pace with inflation), their child’s tuition will be
fully funded. However, if inflation rises more than expected, the tuition would be more than
$150,000. Because the zero-coupon bonds produce a shortfall, the child might end up work-
ing his way through school. As an alternative, the parents might have considered rolling
over Treasury bills. Because the yields on Treasury bills rise and fall with the inflation rate,
this simple strategy is likely to cause less risk than the strategy with zeros.
The key to these examples concerns the distinction between nominal and real quantities.
The insurance company’s liability is $1,000,000 in nominal dollars. Because the face value
of a zero-coupon bond is a nominal quantity, the purchase of zeros eliminates risk. However,
it is easier to forecast college costs in real terms than in nominal terms. Thus, a zero-coupon
bond is a poor choice to reduce the financial risk of a child’s college education.
Income Bonds
Income bonds are similar to conventional bonds, except that coupon payments are de-
pendent on company income. Specifically, coupons are paid to bondholders only if the
firm’s income is sufficient.
Income bonds are a financial puzzle because, from the firm’s standpoint, they appear to
be a cheaper form of debt than conventional bonds. Income bonds provide the same tax ad-
vantage to corporations from interest deductions that conventional bonds do. However, a com-
pany that issues income bonds is less likely to experience financial distress. When a coupon
payment is omitted because of insufficient corporate income, an income bond is not in default.
Why don’t firms issue more income bonds? Two explanations have been offered:
1. The “Smell of Death” Explanation. Firms that issue income bonds signal the capital
markets of their increased prospect of financial distress.
2. The “Dead-Weight Costs” Explanation. The calculation of corporate income is crucial
to determining the status of bondholders’ income, and stockholders and bondholders
will not necessarily agree on how to calculate the income. This creates agency costs as-
sociated with the firm’s accounting methods.
Although these are possibilities, the work of McConnell and Schlarbaum suggests that no
truly satisfactory reason exists for the lack of more investor interest in income bonds.20
• Create an idea of an unusual bond and analyze its features.
20.6 DIRECT PLACEMENT COMPARED TO PUBLIC ISSUES
Earlier in this chapter, we described the mechanics of issuing debt to the public. However,
more than 50 percent of all debt is privately placed. There are two basic forms of direct pri-
vate long-term financing: term loans and private placement.
Term loans are direct business loans with maturities of between 1 year and 15 years. The
typical term loan is amortized over the life of the loan. That is, the loan is repaid by equal
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?
19A more precise strategy would be to buy zeros maturing in years 15, 16, 17, and 18, respectively. In this way,
the bonds might mature just in time to meet tuition payments.
20J. McConnell and G. Schlarbaum, “The Income Bond Puzzle,” in The Revolution in Corporate Finance. ed. by
J. M. Stern and D. H. Chew, Jr. (New York: Basil Blackwell, 1986).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
587
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 20
Long-Term Debt
581
annual payments of interest and principal. The lenders are commercial banks and insurance
companies. A private placement, which also involves the sale of a bond or loan directly to
a limited number of investors, is very similar to a term loan except that the maturity is longer.
Some important differences between direct long-term financing and public issues are:
1. A direct long-term loan avoids the cost of registration with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
2. Direct placement is likely to have more restrictive covenants.
3. It is easier to renegotiate a term loan and a private placement in the event of a default. It
is harder to renegotiate a public issue because hundreds of holders are usually involved.
4. Life insurance companies and pension funds dominate the private-placement segment of
the bond market. Commercial banks are significant participants in the term-loan market.
5. The costs of distributing bonds are lower in the private market.
The interest rates on term loans and private placements are usually higher than those on
an equivalent public issue. Hayes, Joehnk, and Melicher found that the yield to maturity on
private placements was 0.46 percent higher than on similar public issues.21 This finding re-
flects the trade-off between a higher interest rate and more flexible arrangements in the event
of financial distress, as well as the lower transaction costs associated with private placements.
• What are the differences between private and public bond issues?
• A private placement is more likely to have restrictive covenants than is a public issue. Why?
20.7 LONG-TERM SYNDICATED BANK LOANS
Most bank loans are for less than a year. They serve as a short-term “bridge” for the acqui-
sition of inventory and are typically self-liquidating—that is, when the firm sells the in-
ventory, the cash is used to repay the bank loan. We talk about the need for short-term bank
loans in the next section of the text. Now we focus on long-term bank loans.
First, we introduce the concept of commitment. Most bank loans are made with a com-
mitment to a firm. That commitment establishes a line of credit and allows the firm to borrow
up to a predetermined limit. Most commitments are in the form of a revolving credit commit-
ment (i.e., a revolver) with a fixed term of up to three years or more. Revolving credit com-
mitments are drawn or undrawn depending on whether the firm has a current need for the funds.
Now we turn to the concept of syndication. Very large banks such as Citigroup typi-
cally have a larger demand for loans than they can supply, and small regional banks fre-
quently have more funds on hand than they can profitably lend to existing customers.
Basically, they cannot generate enough good loans with the funds they have available. As a
result, a very large bank may arrange a loan with a firm or country and then sell portions of
it to a syndicate of other banks. With a syndicated loan, each bank has a separate loan agree-
ment with the borrowers.
A syndicated loan is a corporate loan made by a group (or syndicate) of banks and other
institutional investors. A syndicated loan may be publicly traded. It may be a line of credit
and be “undrawn” or it may be drawn and be used by a firm. Syndicated loans are always
rated investment grade. However, a leveraged syndicated loan is rated speculative grade
(i.e., it is “junk”). Every week, The Wall Street Journal reports on the number of syndicated
21P. A. Hayes, M. D. Joehnk, and R. W. Melicher, “Determinants of Risk Premiums in the Public and Private
Bond Market,” Journal of Financial Research (Fall 1979).
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
588
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
582
I TABLE 20.4
Syndicated
Loans/Trends 
& Prices

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
589
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
loan deals, credit costs, and yields, as seen in Table 20.4. In addition, syndicated loan prices
are reported for a group of publicly traded loans. Altman and Suggitt report slightly higher
default rates for syndicated loans when compared to comparable corporate bonds.22
20.8 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
This chapter describes some important aspects of long-term debt financing.
1. The written agreement describing the details of the long-term debt contract is called an
indenture. Some of the main provisions are security, repayment, protective covenants, and
call provisions.
2. There are many ways that shareholders can take advantage of bondholders. Protective
covenants are designed to protect bondholders from management decisions that favor
stockholders at bondholders’ expense.
3. Unsecured bonds are called debentures or notes. They are general claims on the company’s
value. Most public industrial bonds are unsecured. In contrast, utility bonds are usually
secured. Mortgage bonds are secured by tangible property, and collateral trust bonds are
secured by financial securities such as stocks and bonds. If the company defaults on secured
bonds, the trustee can repossess the assets. This makes secured bonds more valuable.
4. Long-term bonds usually provide for repayment of principal before maturity. This is
accomplished by a sinking fund. With a sinking fund, the company retires a certain number
of bonds each year. A sinking fund protects bondholders because it reduces the average
maturity of the bond, and its payment signals the financial condition of the company.
5. Most publicly issued bonds are callable. A callable bond is less attractive to bondholders than
a noncallable bond. A callable bond can be bought back by the company at a call price that is
less than the true value of the bond. As a consequence, callable bonds are priced to obtain
higher stated interest rates for bondholders than noncallable bonds.
Generally, companies should exercise the call provision whenever the bond’s value is
greater than the call price.
There is no single reason for call provisions. Some sensible reasons include taxes, greater
flexibility, management’s ability to predict interest rates, and the fact that callable bonds are
less sensitive to interest-rate changes.
6. There are many different types of bonds, including floating-rate bonds, deep-discount bonds,
and income bonds. This chapter also compares private placement with public issuance.
KEY TERMS
Bearer
566
Negative covenant
567
Call premium
568
Original-issue discount bonds
579
Call-protected
568
Positive covenant
567
Debenture
567
Private placement
581
Deep-discount bonds
579
Protective covenant
567
Deferred call 568
Public issue
564
Floating-rate bonds
578
Pure-discount bonds
579
Income bonds
580
Refunding
568
Indenture
564
Zero-coupon bonds
579
Junk bonds
573
Chapter 20
Long-Term Debt
583
22Edward I. Altman and Heather J. Suggitt, “Default Rates in the Syndicated Bank Loan Market: A
Longitudinal Analysis,” Journal of Banking and Finance 24 (2000).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
590
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
SUGGESTED READING
The following provides a complete coverage of bonds and the bond market:
Fabozzi, F. J., and T. D. Fabozzi, eds. The Handbook of Fixed Income Securities. 4th ed.
Homewood, Ill.: Irwin Professional Publishing, 1995.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
The Public Issue of Bonds
20.1 Raeo Corp. bonds trade at 100 today. The bonds pay semiannual interest that is paid on
January 1 and July 1. The coupon on the bonds is 10 percent. How much will you pay for
a Raeo bond if today is
a. March 1.
b. October 1.
c. July 1.
d. August 15.
20.2 Define the following terms:
a. Protective covenant
b. Negative covenant
c. Positive covenant
d. Sinking fund
20.3 Sinking funds have both positive and negative characteristics to the bondholders. Why?
20.4 Which is riskier to a prospective creditor, an open-end mortgage or closed-end
mortgage? Why?
20.5 What is call premium? During what period of time is a bond said to be call-protected?
Bond Refunding
20.6 KIC, Inc., plans to issue $5 million of perpetual bonds. The face value of each bond is
$1,000. The annual coupon on the bonds is 12 percent. Market interest rates on one-year
bonds are 11 percent. With equal probability, the long-term market interest rate will be
either 14 percent or 7 percent next year. Assume investors are risk-neutral.
a. If the KIC bonds are noncallable, what is the price of the bonds?
b. If the bonds are callable one year from today at $1,450, will their price be greater than
or less than the price you computed in part (a)? Why?
20.7 Bowdeen Manufacturing intends to issue callable, perpetual bonds. The bonds are callable
at $1,250. One-year interest rates are 12 percent. There is a 60-percent probability that
long-term interest rates one year from today will be 15 percent. With a 40-percent
probability, long-term interest rates will be 8 percent. To simplify the firm’s accounting,
Bowdeen would like to issue the bonds at par ($1,000). What must the coupon on the
bonds be for Bowdeen to be able to sell them at par?
20.8 Illinois Industries has decided to borrow money by issuing perpetual bonds. The face value
of the bonds will be $1,000. The coupon will be 8 percent, payable annually. The one-year
interest rate is 8 percent. It is known that next year there is a 65-percent chance that
interest rates will decline to 6 percent, and that there is a 35-percent chance that they will
rise to 9 percent.
a. What will the market value of these bonds be if they are noncallable?
b. If the company instead decides to make the bonds callable, what coupon will be
demanded by the bondholders for the bonds to sell at par? Assume that the bonds can
be called in one year (i.e., the call date is one year from now) and that the call premium
is equal to the annual coupon.
c. What will be the value of the call provision to Illinois Industries?
584
Part V
Long-Term Financing

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
20. Long−Term Debt
591
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
20.9 New Business Ventures, Inc., has an outstanding perpetual bond with a face value equal
to $1,000 and a 9-percent coupon rate. The bond cannot be called for one year. The call
premium is set at $150 over par value. It is forecasted that there is a 40-percent chance
that the interest rate will rise to 12-percent, and a 60-percent chance that the interest rate
will fall down to 6 percent next year. The current interest rate is 10 percent. What is the
current market price of this callable bond?
20.10 Hudson River Electronics has $500 million of 9-percent perpetual bonds outstanding. These
bonds can be called at a price of $1,090 for each $1,000 of face value. Under present market
conditions, the outstanding bonds can be replaced by $500 million of 7-percent perpetual
bonds. The underwriting and legal expenses of this new issue would be $80 million. What
would be the net present value of this refunding? Assume that there are no taxes.
20.11 An outstanding issue of Public Express Airlines debentures has a call provision attached.
The total principal value of the bonds is $250 million, and the bonds pay an annual
coupon of $80 for each $1,000 of face value. The total cost of refunding would be 12
percent of the principal amount raised. The appropriate tax rate for the company is 35
percent. How low does the borrowing cost of Public Express need to drop to justify
refunding with a new bond issue?
20.12 Margret Kimberly, CFO of Charles River Associates, is considering whether or not to
refinance the two currently outstanding corporate bonds of the firm. The first one is an
8-percent perpetual bond with a $1,000 face value with $75 million outstanding. The
second one is a 9-percent perpetual bond with the same face value with $87.5 million
outstanding. The call premiums for the two bonds are 8.5 percent and 9.5 percent of
the face value, respectively. The transaction costs of the refundings are $10 million and
$12 million, respectively. The current interest rates for the two bonds are 7 percent and
7.25 percent, respectively. Which bond should Ms. Kimberly recommend be
refinanced? What is the NPV of the refunding?
Some Different Types of Bonds
20.13 What is a “junk bond”? What are some of the controversies created by junk-bond financing?
20.14 Describe the following types of bonds:
a. Floating rate
b. Deep discount
c. Income
Direct Placement Compared to Public Issues
20.15 Which of the following are characteristics of public issues, and which are characteristics
of direct financing?
a. SEC registration required
b. Higher interest cost
c. Higher fixed cost
d. Quicker access to funds
e. Active secondary market
f. Easily renegotiated
g. Lower flotation costs
h. Regular amortization required
i. Ease of repurchase at favorable prices
j. High total cost to small borrowers
k. Flexible terms
l. Less intensive investigation required
General Topics
20.16 a. In an efficient market callable and noncallable bonds will be priced in such a way that
there will be no advantage or disadvantage to the call provision. Comment.
b. If interest rates fall, will the price of noncallable bonds move up higher than that of
callable bonds? Why or why not?
Chapter 20
Long-Term Debt
585

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
592
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Leasing
CHAPTER 21
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
A
lmost any asset that can be purchased can be leased, from aircraft to zithers. When
we take vacations or business trips, renting a car for a few days frequently seems a
convenient thing to do. This is an example of a short-term lease. After all, buying
a car and selling it a few days later would be a great nuisance.
Corporations lease both short-term and long-term, but this chapter is primarily con-
cerned with long-term leasing over a term of more than five years. Long-term leasing is a
method of financing property, plant, and equipment. More equipment is financed today by
long-term leases than by any other method of equipment financing.1
Every lease contract has two parties: the lessee and the lessor. The lessee is the user of
the equipment, and the lessor is the owner. Typically, the lessee first decides on the asset
needed and then negotiates a lease contract with a lessor. From the lessee’s standpoint, long-
term leasing is similar to buying the equipment with a secured loan. The terms of the lease
contract are compared to what a banker might arrange with a secured loan. Thus, long-term
leasing is a form of financing.
Many questionable advantages are claimed for long-term leasing, such as “leasing pro-
vides 100-percent financing,” or “leasing conserves capital.” However, the principal bene-
fit of long-term leasing is tax reduction. Leasing allows the transfer of tax benefits from
those who need equipment but cannot take full advantage of the tax benefits associated with
ownership to a party who can. If the corporate income tax were repealed, long-term leasing
would virtually disappear.
21.1 TYPES OF LEASES
The Basics
A lease is a contractual agreement between a lessee and lessor. The agreement establishes
that the lessee has the right to use an asset and in return must make periodic payments to
the lessor, the owner of the asset. The lessor is either the asset’s manufacturer or an inde-
pendent leasing company. If the lessor is an independent leasing company, it must buy the
asset from a manufacturer. Then the lessor delivers the asset to the lessee, and the lease goes
into effect.
As far as the lessee is concerned, it is the use of the asset that is most important, not
who owns the asset. The use of an asset can be obtained by a lease contract. Because the
user can also buy the asset, leasing and buying involve alternative financing arrangements
for the use of an asset. This is illustrated in Figure 21.1.
1P. K. Nevitt and F. J. Fabozzi, Equipment Leasing, 2nd ed. (Homewood, Ill.: Dow Jones-Irwin, 1985).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
593
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 21
Leasing
587
The specific example in Figure 21.1 happens often in the computer industry. Firm U,
the lessee, might be a hospital, a law firm, or any other firm that uses computers. The les-
sor is an independent leasing company who purchased the equipment from a manufacturer
such as IBM or Apple. Leases of this type are called direct leases. In the figure, the lessor
issued both debt and equity to finance the purchase.
Of course, a manufacturer like IBM could lease its own computers, though we do not
show this situation in the example. Leases of this type are called sales-type leasing. In this
case, IBM would compete with the independent computer-leasing company.
Operating Leases
Years ago, a lease where the lessee received an operator along with the equipment was
called an operating lease. Though the operating lease defies an exact definition today, this
form for leasing has several important characteristics.
1. Operating leases are usually not fully amortized. This means that the payments required
under the terms of the lease are not enough to recover the full cost of the asset for the
lessor. This occurs because the term or life of the operating lease is usually less than the
economic life of the asset. Thus, the lessor must expect to recover the costs of the asset
by renewing the lease or by selling the asset for its residual value.
2. Operating leases usually require the lessor to maintain and insure the leased assets.
3. Perhaps the most interesting feature of an operating lease is the cancellation option. This
option gives the lessee the right to cancel the lease contract before the expiration date.
If the option to cancel is exercised, the lessee must return the equipment to the lessor.
The value of a cancellation clause depends on whether future technological and/or eco-
nomic conditions are likely to make the value of the asset to the lessee less than the value
of the future lease payments under the lease.
To leasing practitioners, the above characteristics constitute an operating lease.
However, accountants use the term in a slightly different way, as we will see shortly.
Firm U buys asset and uses asset;
financing raised by debt and equity
Creditors and
equity shareholders
supply financing to
Firm U
Manufacturer
of asset
Firm U
1. Uses asset
2. Owns asset
Firm U leases asset from lessor;
the lessor owns the asset
Firm U buys asset
from manufacturer
Lessor buys asset
Manufacturer
of asset
Lessor
1. Owns asset
2. Does not use asset
Lessee (Firm U)
1. Uses asset
2. Does not own asset
Firm U
leases asset
from lessor
Creditors and shareholders
supply financing to lessor
Equity
shareholders
Creditors
Equity
shareholders
Creditors
Buy
Lease
I FIGURE 21.1 Buying versus Leasing

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
594
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Financial Leases
Financial leases are the exact opposite of operating leases, as is seen from their important
characteristics:
1. Financial leases do not provide for maintenance or service by the lessor.
2. Financial leases are fully amortized.
3. The lessee usually has a right to renew the lease on expiration.
4. Generally, financial leases cannot be canceled. In other words, the lessee must make all
payments or face the risk of bankruptcy.
Because of the above characteristics, particularly (2), this lease provides an alternative
method of financing to purchase. Hence, its name is a sensible one. Two special types of fi-
nancial leases are the sale and lease-back arrangement and the leveraged lease.
Sale and Lease-Back
A sale and lease-back occurs when a company sells an asset it
owns to another firm and immediately leases it back. In a sale and lease-back, two things
happen:
1. The lessee receives cash from the sale of the asset.
2. The lessee makes periodic lease payments, thereby retaining use of the asset.
An example of a sale and lease-back occurred when the city of Oakland, California,
used the proceeds of a sale of its city hall and 23 other buildings to help meet the liabilities
of the $150 million Police and Retirement System. As part of the same transaction, Oakland
leased back the buildings to obtain their continued use.
Leveraged Leases
A leveraged lease is a three-sided arrangement among the lessee, the
lessor, and the lenders:
1. As in other leases, the lessee uses the assets and makes periodic lease payments.
2. As in other leases, the lessor purchases the assets, delivers them to the lessee, and col-
lects the lease payments. However, the lessor puts up no more than 40 to 50 percent of
the purchase price.
3. The lenders supply the remaining financing and receive interest payments from the les-
sor. Thus, the arrangement on the right-hand side of Figure 24.1 would be a leveraged
lease if the bulk of the financing was supplied by creditors.
The lenders in a leveraged lease typically use a nonrecourse loan. This means that the
lessor is not obligated to the lender in case of a default. However, the lender is protected in
two ways:
1. The lender has a first lien on the asset.
2. In the event of loan default, the lease payments are made directly to the lender.
The lessor puts up only part of the funds but gets the lease payments and all the tax
benefits of ownership. These lease payments are used to pay the debt service of the nonre-
course loan. The lessee benefits because, in a competitive market, the lease payment is low-
ered when the lessor saves taxes.
• What are some reasons that assets like automobiles would be leased with operating
leases, whereas machines or real estate would be leased with financial leases? 
• What are the differences between an operating lease and a financial lease?
588
Part V
Long-Term Financing
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
595
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 21
Leasing
589
21.2 ACCOUNTING AND LEASING
Before November 1976, a firm could arrange to use an asset through a lease and not dis-
close the asset or the lease contract on the balance sheet. Lessees needed only to report in-
formation on leasing activity in the footnotes of their financial statements. Thus, leasing led
to off–balance-sheet financing.
In November 1976, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued its
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13 (FAS 13), “Accounting for Leases.”
Under FAS 13, certain leases are classified as capital leases. (We present the criteria later
in this section.) For a capital lease, the present value of the lease payments appears on the
right-hand side of the balance sheet. The identical value appears on the left-hand side of the
balance sheet as an asset.
FASB classifies all other leases as operating leases, though FASB’s definition differs
from that of nonaccountants. (The use of operating leases by nonaccountants was discussed
in an earlier section of this chapter.) No mention of the lease appears on the balance sheet
for operating leases.
The accounting implications of this distinction are illustrated in Table 21.1. Imagine a
firm that, years ago, issued $100,000 of equity in order to purchase land. It now wants to
use a $100,000 truck, which it can either purchase or lease. The balance sheet reflecting
purchase of the truck is shown at the top of the table. (We assume that the truck is financed
entirely with debt.) Alternatively, imagine that the firm leases the truck. If the lease is
judged to be an operating one, the middle balance sheet is created. Here, neither the lease
liability nor the truck appears on the balance sheet. The bottom balance sheet reflects a cap-
ital lease. The truck is shown as an asset and the lease is shown as a liability.
Accountants generally argue that a firm’s financial strength is inversely related to the
amount of its liabilities. Since the lease liability is hidden with an operating lease, the bal-
ance sheet of a firm with an operating lease looks stronger than the balance sheet of a firm
with an otherwise-identical capital lease. Given the choice, firms would probably classify
all their leases as operating ones. Because of this tendency, FAS 13 states that a lease must
be classified as a capital one if at least one of the following four criteria is met:
I TABLE 21.1 Example of Balance Sheet under FAS 13
Balance Sheet
Truck is purchased with debt (the company owns a $100,000 truck)
Truck
$100,000
Debt
$100,000
Land
100,000
Equity
100,000
________
________
Total assets
$200,000
Total debt plus equity
$200,000
Operating lease (the company has an operating lease for the truck)
Truck
$0
Debt
$0
Land
100,000
Equity
100,000
________
________
Total assets
$100,000
Total debt plus equity
$100,000
Capital lease (the company has a capital lease for the truck)
Assets under capital lease
$100,000
Obligations under capital lease
$100,000
Land
100,000
Equity
100,000
________
________
Total assets
$200,000
Total debt plus equity
$200,000

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
596
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
1. The present value of the lease payments is at least 90 percent of the fair market value of
the asset at the start of the lease.
2. The lease transfers ownership of the property to the lessee by the end of the term of the
lease.
3. The lease term is 75 percent or more of the estimated economic life of the asset.
4. The lessee can purchase the asset at a price below fair market value when the lease ex-
pires. This is frequently called a bargain-purchase-price option.
These rules capitalize those leases that are similar to purchases. For example, the first two
rules capitalize leases where the asset is likely to be purchased at the end of the lease pe-
riod. The last two rules capitalize long-term leases.
Some firms have tried to cook the books by exploiting this classification scheme.
Suppose a trucking firm wants to lease a $200,000 truck that it expects to use for 15 years.
A clever financial manager could try to negotiate a lease contract for 10 years with lease
payments having a present value of $178,000. These terms would get around criteria (1) and
(3). If criteria (2) and (4) could be circumvented, the arrangement would be an operating
lease and would not show up on the balance sheet.
Does this sort of gimmickry pay? The semistrong form of the efficient-capital-markets
hypothesis implies that stock prices reflect all publicly available information. As we dis-
cussed earlier in this text, the empirical evidence generally supports this form of the hy-
pothesis. Though operating leases do not appear in the firm’s balance sheet, information on
these leases must be disclosed elsewhere in the annual report. Because of this, attempts to
keep leases off the balance sheet will not affect stock price in an efficient capital market.
• Define capital lease.
• Define operating lease.
21.3 TAXES, THE IRS, AND LEASES
The lessee can deduct lease payments for income tax purposes if the lease is qualified by
the Internal Revenue Service. Because tax shields are critical to the economic viability of
any lease, all interested parties generally obtain an opinion from the IRS before agreeing to
a major lease transaction. The opinion of the IRS will reflect the following guidelines:
1. The term of the lease must be less than 30 years. If the term is greater than 30 years, the
transaction will be regarded as a conditional sale.
2. The lease should not have an option to acquire the asset at a price below its fair market
value. This type of bargain option would give the lessee the asset’s residual scrap value,
implying an equity interest.
3. The lease should not have a schedule of payments that is very high at the start of the lease
term and thereafter very low. Early balloon payments would be evidence that the lease
was being used to avoid taxes and not for a legitimate business purpose.
4. The lease payments must provide the lessor with a fair market rate of return. The profit
potential of the lease to the lessor should be apart from the deal’s tax benefits.
5. The lease should not limit the lessee’s right to issue debt or pay dividends while the lease
is operative.
590
Part V
Long-Term Financing
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
597
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 21
Leasing
591
6. Renewal options must be reasonable and reflect fair market value of the asset. This re-
quirement can be met by granting the lessee the first option to meet a competing out-
side offer.
The reason the IRS is concerned about lease contracts is that many times they appear
to be set up solely to avoid taxes. To see how this could happen, suppose that a firm plans
to purchase a $1 million bus that has a five-year class life. Depreciation expense would be
$200,000 per year, assuming straight-line depreciation. Now suppose that the firm can lease
the bus for $500,000 per year for two years and buy the bus for $1 at the end of the two-
year term. The present value of the tax benefits from acquiring the bus would clearly be less
than if the bus were leased. The speedup of lease payments would greatly benefit the firm
and de facto give it a form of accelerated depreciation. If the tax rates of the lessor and les-
see are different, leasing can be a form of tax avoidance.
• What are the IRS guidelines for treating a lease contract as a lease for tax purposes?
21.4 THE CASH FLOWS OF LEASING
In this section we identify the basic cash flows used in evaluating a lease. Consider the
decision confronting the Xomox corporation, which manufactures pipe. Business has
been expanding, and Xomox currently has a five-year backlog of pipe orders for the
Trans-Honduran Pipeline.
The International Boring Machine Corporation (IBMC) makes a pipe-boring machine
that can be purchased for $10,000. Xomox has determined that it needs a new machine, and
the IBMC model will save Xomox $6,000 per year in reduced electricity bills for the next
five years. These savings are known with certainty because Xomox has a long-term elec-
tricity purchase agreement with State Electric Utilities, Inc.
Xomox has a corporate tax rate of 34 percent. We assume that five-year straight-line
depreciation is used for the pipe-boring machine, and the machine will be worthless after
five years.2
However, Friendly Leasing Corporation has offered to lease the same pipe-boring ma-
chine to Xomox for $2,500 per year for five years. With the lease, Xomox would remain re-
sponsible for maintenance, insurance, and operating expenses.3
Simon Smart, a recently hired MBA, has been asked to calculate the incremental cash
flows from leasing the IBMC machine in lieu of buying it. He has prepared Table 21.2,
which shows the direct cash flow consequences of buying the pipe-boring machine and also
signing the lease agreement with Friendly Leasing.
To simplify matters, Simon Smart has prepared Table 21.3, which subtracts the direct
cash flows of buying the pipe-boring machine from those of leasing it. Noting that only the
net advantage of leasing is relevant to Xomox, he concludes the following from his analysis:
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?
2This is a simplifying assumption because current tax law allows the accelerated method as well. The
accelerated method will almost always be the best choice.
3For simplicity, we have assumed that lease payments are made at the end of each year. Actually, most leases
require lease payments to be made at the beginning of the year.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
598
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
1. Operating costs are not directly affected by leasing. Xomox will save $3,960 (after
taxes) from use of the IBMC boring machine regardless of whether the machine is
owned or leased. Thus, this cash flow stream does not appear in Table 21.3.
2. If the machine is leased, Xomox will save the $10,000 it would have used to purchase
the machine. This saving shows up as an initial cash inflow of $10,000 in year 0.
592
Part V
Long-Term Financing
I TABLE 21.2 Cash Flows to Xomox from Using the IBMC Pipe-
Boring Machine: Buy versus Lease
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
Buy
Cost of machine
$10,000
After-tax operating 
savings [$3,960 
$6,000  (1  0.34)]
$3,960
$3,960
$3,960
$3,960
$3,960
Depreciation tax 
benefit
680
680
680
680
680
________
______
______
______
______
______
$10,000
$4,640
$4,640
$4,640
$4,640
$4,640
Lease
Lease payments
$2,500 $2,500 $2,500 $2,500 $2,500
Tax benefits of 
lease payments 
($850  $2,500  0.34)
850
850
850
850
850
After-tax operating savings
3,960
3,960
3,960
3,960
3,960
______
______
______
______
______
Total
$2,310
$2,310
$2,310
$2,310
$2,310
Depreciation is straight-line. Because the depreciable base is $10,000, depreciation expense per year is
$10,000/5  $2,000.
The depreciation tax benefit per year is equal to 
Tax rate  Depreciation expense per year  Depreciation tax benefit
0.34

$2,000

$680
I TABLE 21.3 Incremental Cash Flow Consequences for Xomox from
Leasing instead of Purchasing
Lease Minus Buy
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
Lease
Lease payment
$2,500 $2,500 $2,500 $2,500 $2,500
Tax benefit of lease payment
850
850
850
850
850
Buy (minus)
Cost of machine
($10,000)
Lost depreciation tax benefit
680
680
680
680
680
_________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
Total
$10,000
$2,330 $2,330 $2,330 $2,330 $2,330
The bottom line presents the cash flows from leasing relative to the cash flows from purchase. The cash flows
would be exactly the opposite if we considered the purchase relative to the lease.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
599
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 21
Leasing
593
3. If Xomox leases the pipe-boring machine, it will no longer own this machine and must
give up the depreciation tax benefits. These tax benefits show up as an outflow.
4. If Xomox chooses to lease the machine, it must pay $2,500 per year for five years. The
first payment is due at the end of the first year. (This is a break, because sometimes the
first payment is due immediately.) The lease payments are tax-deductible and, as a con-
sequence, generate tax benefits of $850 (0.34  $2,500).
The net cash flows have been placed in the bottom line of Table 21.3. These numbers
represent the cash flows from leasing relative to the cash flows from the purchase. It is ar-
bitrary that we express the flows in this way. We could have expressed the cash flows from
the purchase relative to the cash flows from leasing. These cash flows would be
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
Net cash flows from 
purchase alternative 
relative to lease alternative
$10,000
$2,330
$2,330
$2,330
$2,330
$2,330
Of course, the cash flows here are the opposite of those in the bottom line of Table 21.3.
Depending on our purpose, we may look at either the purchase relative to the lease or vice
versa. Thus, the student should become comfortable with either viewpoint.
Now that we have the cash flows, we can make our decision by discounting the flows
properly. However, because the discount rate is tricky, we take a detour in the next section
before moving back to the Xomox case. In this next section, we show that cash flows in the
lease-versus-buy decision should be discounted at the after-tax interest rate (i.e., the after-
tax cost of debt capital).
21.5 A DETOUR ON DISCOUNTING AND DEBT CAPACITY
WITH CORPORATE TAXES
The analysis of leases is difficult, and both financial practitioners and academics have made
conceptual errors. These errors revolve around taxes. We hope to avoid their mistakes by
beginning with the simplest type of example, a loan for one year. Though this example is
unrelated to our lease-versus-buy situation, principles developed here will apply directly to
lease-buy analysis.
Present Value of Riskless Cash Flows
Consider a corporation that lends $100 for a year. If the interest rate is 10 percent, the firm
will receive $110 at the end of the year. Of this amount, $10 is interest and the remaining
$100 is the original principal. A corporate tax rate of 34 percent implies taxes on the inter-
est of $3.40 (0.34  $10). Thus, the firm ends up with $106.60 ($110  $3.40) after taxes
on a $100 investment.
Now, consider a company that borrows $100 for a year. With a 10-percent interest rate,
the firm must pay $110 to the bank at the end of the year. However, the borrowing firm can
take the $10 of interest as a tax deduction. The corporation pays $3.40 (0.34  $10) less in
taxes than it would have paid had it not borrowed the money at all. Thus, considering this
reduction in taxes, the firm must pay $106.60 ($110  $3.40) on a $100 loan. The cash
flows from both lending and borrowing are displayed in Table 21.4.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
600
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The above two paragraphs show a very important result: the firm could not care less
whether it received $100 today or $106.60 next year.4 If it received $100 today, it could lend
it out, thereby receiving $106.60 after corporate taxes at the end of the year. Conversely, if
it knows today that it will receive $106.60 at the end of the year, it could borrow $100 to-
day. The after-tax interest and principal payments on the loan would be paid with the
$106.60 that the firm will receive at the end of the year. Because of the interchangeability
illustrated above, we say that a payment of $106.60 next year has a present value of $100.
Because $100  $106.60/1.066, a riskless cash flow should be discounted at the after-tax
interest rate of 0.066 [0.10  (1  0.34)].
Of course, the above discussion considered a specific example. The general principle is
In a world with corporate taxes, the firm should discount riskless cash flows at the after-tax
riskless rate of interest.
Optimal Debt Level and Riskless Cash Flows (Advanced)
In addition, our simple example can illustrate a related point concerning optimal debt level.
Consider a firm that has just determined that the current level of debt in its capital structure
is optimal. Immediately following that determination, it is surprised to learn that it will re-
ceive a guaranteed payment of $106.60 in one year from, say, a tax-exempt government lot-
tery. This future windfall is an asset that, like any asset, should raise the firm’s optimal debt
level. How much does this payment raise the firm’s optimal level?
594
Part V
Long-Term Financing
I TABLE 21.4 Lending and Borrowing in a World with Corporate
Taxes (interest rate is 10 percent and corporate tax rate
is 34 percent)
Date 0
Date 1
Lending example
Lend  $100
Receive  $100.00 of principal
Receive  $  10.00 of interest
6.6%
lending
Pay
 $
3.40 ( 0.34  $10) in taxes
_________
rate
 $106.60
After-tax lending rate is 6.6%.
Borrowing example
Borrow  $100
Pay
 $100.00 of principal
Pay
 $  10.00 of interest
6.6% 
borrowing
Receive  $
3.40 ( 0.34  $10) as a tax rebate
_________
rate
 $106.60
After-tax borrowing rate is 6.6%.
General principle: In a world with corporate taxes, riskless cash flows should be discounted at the after-tax
interest rate.
4For simplicity, assume that the firm received $100 or $106.60 after corporate taxes. Since 0.66  1  0.34, the
pretax inflows would be $151.52 ($100/0.66) and $161.52 ($106.60/0.66), respectively.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
601
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 21
Leasing
595
Our preceding analysis implies that the firm’s optimal debt level must be $100 more
than it previously was. That is, the firm could borrow $100 today, perhaps paying the entire
amount out as a dividend. It would owe the bank $110 at the end of the year. However, be-
cause it receives a tax rebate of $3.40 (0.34  $10), its net repayment will be $106.60. Thus,
its borrowing of $100 today is fully offset by next year’s government lottery proceeds of
$106.60. In other words, the lottery proceeds act as an irrevocable trust that can service the
increased debt. Note that we need not know the optimal debt level before the lottery was
announced. We are merely saying that, whatever this prelottery optimal level was, the op-
timal debt level is $100 more after the lottery announcement.
Of course, this is just one example. The general principle is5
In a world with corporate taxes, one determines the increase in the firm’s optimal debt level by
discounting a future guaranteed after-tax inflow at the after-tax riskless interest rate.
Conversely, suppose that a second and unrelated firm is surprised to learn that it must
pay $106.60 next year to the government for back taxes. Clearly, this additional liability im-
pinges on the second firm’s debt capacity. By the above reasoning, it follows that the sec-
ond firm’s optimal debt level must be lowered by exactly $100.
• How should one discount a riskless cash flow?
21.6 NPV ANALYSIS OF THE LEASE-VERSUS-BUY DECISION
The detour leads to a simple method for evaluating leases: discount all cash flows at the af-
ter-tax interest rate. From the bottom line of Table 21.3, Xomox’s incremental cash flows
from leasing versus purchasing are 
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
Net cash flows from lease
alternative relative to
purchase alternative
$10,000 $2,330 $2,330 $2,330 $2,330 $2,330
Let us assume that Xomox can either borrow or lend at the interest rate of 7.57575 percent.
If the corporate tax rate is 34 percent, the correct discount rate is the after-tax rate of 5 per-
cent [7.57575%  (1  0.34)]. When 5 percent is used to compute the NPV of the lease,
we have
NPV  $10,000  $2,330 
 $87.68
(21.1)
Because the net present value of the incremental cash flows from leasing relative to pur-
chasing is negative, Xomox prefers to purchase.
Equation (21.1) is the correct approach to lease-versus-buy analysis. However, students
are often bothered by two things. First, they question whether the cash flows in Table 21.3
are truly riskless. We examine this issue below. Second, they feel that this approach lacks
intuition. We address this concern a little later.
A 5
0.05
5This principle holds for riskless or guaranteed cash flows only. Unfortunately, there is no easy formula for
determining the increase in optimal debt level from a risky cash flow.
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
602
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The Discount Rate
Because we discounted at the after-tax riskless rate of interest, we have implicitly assumed
that the cash flows in the Xomox example are riskless. Is this appropriate?
A lease payment is like the debt service on a secured bond issued by the lessee, and the
discount rate should be approximately the same as the interest rate on such debt. In general,
this rate will be slightly higher than the riskless rate considered in the previous section. The
various tax shields could be somewhat riskier than the lease payments for two reasons. First,
the value of the depreciation tax benefits depends on the ability of Xomox to generate enough
taxable income to use them. Second, the corporate tax rate may change in the future, just as
it fell in 1986 and increased in 1993. For these two reasons, a firm might be justified in dis-
counting the depreciation tax benefits at a rate higher than that used for the lease payments.
However, our experience is that real-world companies discount both the depreciation shield
and lease payments at the same rate. This implies that financial practitioners view the above
two risks as minor. We adopt the real-world convention of discounting the two flows at the
same rate. This rate is the after-tax interest rate on secured debt issued by the lessee.
At this point some students still ask the question: Why not use rWACC as the discount
rate in lease-versus-buy analysis? Of course, rWACC should not be used for lease analysis
because the cash flows are more like debt-service cash flows than operating cash flows and,
as such, the risk is much less. The discount rate should reflect the risk of the incremental
cash flows.
21.7 DEBT DISPLACEMENT AND LEASE VALUATION
The Basic Concept of Debt Displacement (Advanced)
The previous analysis allows one to calculate the right answer in a simple manner. This
clearly must be viewed as an important benefit. However, the analysis has little intuitive ap-
peal. To remedy this, we hope to make lease-buy analysis more intuitive by considering the
issue of debt displacement.
A firm that purchases equipment will generally issue debt to finance the purchase. The
debt becomes a liability of the firm. A lessee incurs a liability equal to the present value of
all future lease payments. Because of this, we argue that leases displace debt. The balance
sheets in Table 21.5 illustrate how leasing might affect debt.
Suppose a firm initially has $100,000 of assets and a 150-percent optimal debt-equity
ratio. The firm’s debt is $60,000, and its equity is $40,000. As in the Xomox case, suppose
the firm must use a new $10,000 machine. The firm has two alternatives:
1. The Firm Can Purchase the Machine. If it does, it will finance the purchase with a se-
cured loan and with equity. The debt capacity of the machine is assumed to be the same
as for the firm as a whole.
2. The Firm Can Lease the Asset and Get 100-Percent Financing. That is, the present value
of the future lease payments will be $10,000.
If the firm finances the machine with both secured debt and new equity, its debt will
increase by $6,000 and its equity by $4,000. Its optimal debt-equity ratio of 150 percent
will be maintained.
Conversely, consider the lease alternative. Because the lessee views the lease payment
as a liability, the lessee thinks in terms of a liability-to-equity ratio, not just a debt-to-equity
ratio. As mentioned above, the present value of the lease liability is $10,000. If the leasing
596
Part V
Long-Term Financing

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
603
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 21
Leasing
597
firm is to maintain a liability-to-equity ratio of 150 percent, debt elsewhere in the firm must
fall by $4,000 when the lease is instituted. Because debt must be repurchased, net liabili-
ties only rise by $6,000 ($10,000  $4,000) when $10,000 of assets are placed under lease.6
Debt displacement is a hidden cost of leasing. If a firm leases, it will not use as much
regular debt as it would otherwise. The benefits of debt capacity will be lost, particularly
the lower taxes associated with interest expense.
Optimal Debt Level in the Xomox Example (Advanced)
The previous section showed that leasing displaces debt. Though the section illustrated a
point, it was not meant to show the precise method for calculating debt displacement. Be-
low, we describe the precise method for calculating the difference in optimal debt levels be-
tween purchase and lease in the Xomox example.
From the last line of Table 21.3, we know that the cash flows from the purchase alter-
native relative to the cash flows from the lease alternative are7
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
Net cash flows from
purchase alternative relative
to lease alternative
$10,000
$2,330
$2,330
$2,330
$2,330
$2,330
I TABLE 21.5 Debt Displacement Elsewhere in the Firm When a Lease
Is Instituted
Assets
Liabilities
Initial situation
Current
$50,000
Debt
$60,000
Fixed
50,000
Equity
40,000
________
________
Total
$100,000
Total
$100,000
Buy with secured loan
Current
$50,000
Debt
$66,000
Fixed
50,000
Equity
44,000
Machine
10,000
________
________
Total
$110,000
Total
$110,000
Lease
Current
$50,000
Lease
$10,000
Fixed
50,000
Debt
56,000
Machine
10,000
Equity
44,000
________
________
Total
$110,000
Total
$110,000
This example shows that leases reduce the level of debt elsewhere in the firm. Though the example illustrates a
point, it is not meant to show a precise method for calculating debt displacement.
6Growing firms in the real world will not generally repurchase debt when instituting a lease. Rather, they will
issue less debt in the future than they would have without the lease.
7The last line of Table 21.3 presents the cash flows form the lease alternative relative to the purchase alternative.
As pointed out earlier, our cash flows are now reversed because we are now presenting the cash flows from the
purchase alternative relative to the lease alternative.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
604
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
An increase in the optimal debt level at year 0 occurs because the firm learns at that
time of guaranteed cash flows beginning at year 1. Our detour on discounting and debt ca-
pacity told us to calculate this increased debt level by discounting the future riskless cash
inflows at the after-tax interest rate.8 Thus, additional debt level of the purchase alternative
relative to the lease alternative is
Increase in optimal 
debt level from 
purchase alternative
relative to lease
alternative:
That is, whatever the optimal amount of debt would be under the lease alternative, the op-
timal amount of debt would be $10,087.68 more under the purchase alternative.
This result can be stated in another way. Imagine there are two identical firms except
that one firm purchases the boring machine and the other leases it. From Table 21.3, we
know that the purchasing firm generates $2,330 more cash flow after taxes in each of the
five years than does the leasing firm. Further imagine that the same bank lends money to
both firms. The bank should lend the purchasing firm more money because it has a greater
cash flow each period. How much extra money should the bank loan the purchasing firm so
that the incremental loan can be paid off by the extra cash flows of $2,330 per year? The
answer is exactly $10,087.68, the increase in the optimal debt level we calculated earlier.
To see this, let us work through the example on a year-by-year basis. Because the pur-
chasing firm borrows $10,087.68 more at year 0 than does the leasing firm, the purchasing
firm will pay interest of $764.22 ($10,087.68  0.0757575) at year 1 on the additional debt.
The interest allows the firm to reduce its taxes by $259.83 ($764.22  0.34), leaving an 
after-tax outflow of $504.39 ($764.22  $259.83) at year 1.
We know from Table 21.3 that the purchasing firm generates $2,330 more cash at year
1 than does the leasing firm. Because the purchasing firm has the extra $2,330 coming in at
year 1 but must pay interest on its loan, how much of the loan can the firm repay at year 1
and still have the same cash flow as the leasing firm has? The purchasing firm can repay
$1,825.61 ($2,330  $504.39) of the loan at year 1 and still have the same net cash flow
that the leasing firm has. After the repayment, the purchasing firm will have a remaining
balance of $8,262.07 ($10,087.68  $1,825.61) at year 1. For each of the five years, this
sequence of cash flows is displayed in Table 21.6. The outstanding balance goes to zero over
the five years. Thus, the annual cash flow of $2,330, which represents the extra cash from
purchasing instead of leasing, fully amortizes the loan of $10,087.68.
Our analysis on debt capacity has two purposes. First, we want to show the additional
debt capacity from purchasing. We just completed this task. Second, we want to determine
whether or not the lease is preferred to the purchase. This decision rule follows easily from
the above discussion. By leasing the equipment and having $10,087.68 less debt than un-
der the purchase alternative, the firm has exactly the same cash flow in years 1 to 5 that it
would have through a levered purchase. Thus, we can ignore cash flows beginning in year
1 when comparing the lease alternative with the purchase with debt alternative. However,
the cash flows differ between the alternatives at year 0. These differences are 
1. The Purchase Cost at Year 0 of $10,000 Is Avoided by Leasing. This should be viewed
as a cash inflow under the leasing alternative.
$2,330
1.05 3  $2,330
1.05 4  $2,330
1.05 5
$10,087.68  $2,330
1.05
 $2,330
1.05 2 
598
Part V
Long-Term Financing
8Though our detour considered only riskless cash flows, the cash flows in a leasing example are not necessarily
riskless. As we explained earlier, we therefore adopt the real-world convention of discounting at the after-tax
interest rate on secured debt issued by the lessee.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
605
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 21
Leasing
599
2. The Firm Borrows $10,087.68 Less at Year 0 under the Lease Alternative Than It Can
under the Purchase Alternative. This should be viewed as a cash outflow under the leas-
ing alternative.
Because the firm borrows $10,087.68 less by leasing but saves only $10,000 on the
equipment, the lease alternative requires an extra cash outflow at year 0 relative to the pur-
chase alternative of $87.68 ($10,000  $10,087.68). Because cash flows in later years
from leasing are identical to those from purchasing with debt, the firm should purchase.
This is exactly the same answer we got when, earlier in this chapter, we discounted all
cash flows at the after-tax interest rate. Of course, this is no coincidence because the in-
crease in the optimal debt level is also determined by discounting all flows at the after-tax
interest rate. The accompanying box presents both methods. (The numbers in the box are
in terms of the NPV of the lease relative to the purchase. Thus, a negative NPV indicates
that the purchase alternative should be taken.)
I TABLE 21.6 Calculation of Increase in Optimal Debt Level if Xomox Purchases 
instead of Leases
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
Outstanding balance of loan
$10,087.68
$8,262.07*
$6,345.17
$4,332.42
$2,219.05
$
0
Interest
764.22
625.91
480.69
328.22
168.11
Tax deduction on interest
259.83
212.81
163.44
111.59
57.16
________
________
________
________
_______
After-tax interest expense
$ 504.39
$ 413.10
$ 317.25
$ 216.63
$110.95
Extra cash that purchasing firm 
generates over leasing firm
(from Table 24.2)
$2,330.00
$2,330.00
$2,330.00
$2,330.00
$2,330.00
________
________
________
________
_______
Repayment of loan
$1,825.61†
$1,916.90
$2,012.75
$2,113.37
$2,219.05
Assume that there are two otherwise-identical firms where one leases and the other purchases. The purchasing firm can borrow $10,087.68 more
than the leasing firm. The extra cash flow each year of $2,330 from purchasing instead of leasing can be used to pay off the loan in five years.
*$8,262.07  $10,087.68  $1,825.61.
†$1,825.61  $2,330  $504.39.
TWO METHODS FOR CALCULATING NET
PRESENT VALUE OF LEASE RELATIVE
TO PURCHASE*
Method 1: Discount all cash flows at the
after-tax interest rate 
$87.68  $10,000  $2,330 
Method 2: Compare purchase price with
reduction in optimal debt level under
leasing alternative 
$87.68  $10,000  $10,087.68
Purchase
Reduction in 
price
optimal debt 
level if leasing
*Because we are calculating the NPV of the lease
relative to the purchase, a negative value indicates
that the purchase alternative is preferred.
A 5
0.05

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
606
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
21.8 DOES LEASING EVER PAY: THE BASE CASE
We previously looked at the lease-buy decision from the point of view of the potential les-
see, Xomox. Let’s now look at the decision from the point of view of the lessor, Friendly
Leasing. This firm faces three cash flows, all of which are displayed in Table 21.7. First,
Friendly purchases the machine for $10,000 at year 0. Second, because the asset is depre-
ciated straight-line over five year, the depreciation expense at the end of each of the five
years is $2,000 ($10,000/5). The yearly depreciation tax shield is $680 ($2,000  0.34).
Third, because the yearly lease payment is $2,500, the after-tax lease payment is $1,650
[$2,500  (1  0.34)].
Now examine the total cash flows to Friendly Leasing, as displayed in the bottom line
of Table 21.7. Those of you with a healthy memory will notice something very interesting.
These cash flows are exactly the opposite of those of Xomox, as displayed in the bottom
line of Table 21.3. Those of you with a healthy sense of skepticism may be thinking some-
thing very interesting: “If the cash flows of the lessor are exactly the opposite of those of
the lessee, the combined cash flow of the two parties must be zero each year. Thus, there
does not seem to be any joint benefit to this lease. Because the net present value to the les-
see was $87.68, the NPV to the lessor must be $87.68. The joint NPV is $0 ($87.68 
$87.68). There does not appear to be any way for the NPV of both the lessor and the lessee
to be positive at the same time. Because one party would inevitably lose money, the leasing
deal could never fly.”
This is one of the most important results of leasing. Though Table 21.7 concerns one
particular leasing deal, the principle can be generalized. As long as (1) both parties are sub-
ject to the same interest and tax rates and (2) transaction costs are ignored, there can be no
leasing deal that benefits both parties. However, there is a lease payment for which both par-
ties would calculate an NPV of zero. Given that fee, Xomox would be indifferent to whether
it leased or bought, and Friendly Leasing would be indifferent to whether it leased or not.9
600
Part V
Long-Term Financing
I TABLE 21.7 Cash Flows to Friendly Leasing as Lessor of IBMC
Pipe-Boring Machine
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
Cash for machine
$10,000
Depreciation tax
benefit ($680 
$2,000  0.34)
$ 680
$ 680
$ 680
$ 680
$ 680
After-tax lease
payment [$1,650 
$2,500  (1  0.34)]
1,650
1,650
1,650
1,650
1,650
________
______
______
______
______
______
Total
$10,000
$2,330
$2,330
$2,330
$2,330
$2,330
These cash flows are the opposite of the cash flows to Xomox, the lessee (see the bottom line of Table 21.3).
9The break-even lease payment is $2,469.32 in our example. Both the lessor and lessee can solve for this as
$10,000  $680 
 L  (1  0.34) 
In this case, L  $2,469.32.
A 5
0.05
A 5
0.05

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
607
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 21
Leasing
601
A student with an even healthier sense of skepticism might be thinking, “This textbook
appears to be arguing that leasing is not beneficial. Yet, we know that leasing occurs fre-
quently in the real world. Maybe, just maybe, the textbook is wrong.” Although we will not
admit to being wrong (what textbook would?!), we freely admit to being incomplete at this
point. The next section considers factors that give benefits to leasing.
21.9 REASONS FOR LEASING
Proponents of leasing make many claims about why firms should lease assets rather
than buy them. Some of the reasons given to support leasing are good, and some are
not. We discuss here the reasons for leasing we think are good and some of the ones we
think aren’t.
Good Reasons for Leasing
If leasing is a good choice, it will be because one or more of the following will be true:
1. Taxes may be reduced by leasing.
2. The lease contract may reduce certain types of uncertainty.
3. Transactions costs can be higher for buying an asset and financing it with debt or equity
than for leasing the asset.
Tax Advantages
The most important reason for long-term leasing is tax reduction. If the
corporate income tax were repealed, long-term leasing would probably disappear. The tax
advantages of leasing exist because firms are in different tax brackets.
Should a user in a low tax bracket purchase, he will receive little tax benefit from de-
preciation and interest deductions. Should the user lease, the lessor will receive the de-
preciation shield and the interest deductions. In a competitive market, the lessor must
charge a low lease payment to reflect these tax shields. Thus, the user is likely to lease
rather than purchase.
In our example with Xomox and Friendly Leasing, the value of the lease to Friendly
was $87.68. That is,
$87.68  $10,000  $2,330 
However, the value of the lease to Xomox was exactly the opposite ($87.68). Because the
lessor’s gains came at the expense of the lessee, no deal could be arranged.
However, if Xomox pays no taxes and the lease payments are reduced to $2,475 from
$2,500, both Friendly and Xomox will find there is positive NPV in leasing. Xomox can re-
work Table 21.3 with Tc  0, finding that its cash flows from leasing are 
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
Cost of machine
$10,000
Lease payment
$2,475
$2,475
$2,475
$2,475
$2,475
The value of the lease to Xomox is
Value of lease  $10,000  $2,475 
 $6.55
A 5
0.0757575
A 5
0.05

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
608
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Notice that the discount rate is the interest rate of 7.57575 percent because tax rates are zero.
In addition, the full lease payment of $2,475—and not some lower, after-tax number—
is used since there are no taxes. Finally, note that depreciation is ignored, also because no
taxes apply.
Given a lease payment of $2,475, the cash flows to Friendly Leasing are
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
Cost of machine
$10,000
Depreciation tax shield
($680  $2,000  0.34)
$ 680
$ 680
$ 680
$ 680
$ 680
After-tax lease 
payment [$1,633.50 
$2,475  (1  0.34)]
$1,633.50 $1,633.50 $1,633.50 $1,633.50 $1,633.50
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
Total
$2,313.50 $2,313.50 $2,313.50 $2,313.50 $2,313.50
The value of the lease to Friendly is
Value of lease  $10,000  $2,313.50 
 $10,000  $10,016.24
 $16.24
As a consequence of different tax rates, the lessee (Xomox) gains $6.55 and the lessor
(Friendly) gains $16.24. Both the lessor and the lessee can gain if their tax rates are differ-
ent, because the lessor uses the depreciation and interest tax shields that cannot be used by
the lessee. The IRS loses tax revenue, and some of the tax gains to the lessor are passed on
to the lessee in the form of lower lease payments.
Because both parties can gain when tax rates differ, the lease payment is agreed upon
through negotiation. Before negotiation begins, each party needs to know the reservation
payment of both parties. This is the payment such that one party will be indifferent to
whether it entered the lease deal or not. In other words, this is the payment such that the
value of the lease is zero. These payments are calculated below.
Reservation Payment of Lessee
We now solve for LMAX, the payment such that the value
of the lease to the lessee is zero. When the lessee is in a zero tax bracket, his cash flows, in
terms of LMAX, are
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
Cost of machine
$10,000
Lease payment
LMAX
LMAX
LMAX
LMAX
LMAX
This chart implies that
Value of lease  $10,000  LMAX 
The value of the lease equals zero when
LMAX
After performing this calculation, the lessor knows that he will never be able to charge a
payment above $2,476.62.
 $10,000
A 5
0.0757575
 $2,476.62
A 5
0.0757575
A 5
0.05
602
Part V
Long-Term Financing

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
609
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 21
Leasing
603
Reservation Payment of Lessor
We now solve for LMIN, the payment such that the value
of the lease to the lessor is zero. The cash flows to the lessor, in terms of LMIN, are 
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
Cost of machine
$10,000
Depreciation tax shield
($680  $2,000  0.34)
$680
$680
$680
$680
$680
After-tax lease 
payment (Tc  0.34)
LMIN  (0.66)
LMIN  (0.66)
LMIN  (0.66)
LMIN  (0.66) LMIN  (0.66)
This chart implies that
Value of lease  $10,000  $680 
 LMIN  (0.66) 
The value of the lease equals zero when
LMIN 
 $3,499.62  $1,030.30
 $2,469.32
After performing this calculation, the lessee knows that the lessor will never agree to a lease
payment below $2,469.32.
A Reduction of Uncertainty
We have noted that the lessee does not own the property
when the lease expires. The value of the property at this time is called the residual value, and
the lessor has a firm claim to it. When the lease contract is signed, there may be substantial
uncertainty as to what the residual value of the asset will be. Thus, under a lease contract,
this residual risk is borne by the lessor. Conversely, the user bears this risk when purchasing.
It is common sense that the party best able to bear a particular risk should do so. If the
user has little risk aversion, he will not suffer by purchasing. However, if the user is highly
averse to risk, he should find a third-party lessor more capable of assuming this burden.
This latter situation frequently arises when the user is a small and/or newly formed
firm. Because the risk of the entire firm is likely to be quite high and because the principal
stockholders are likely to be undiversified, the firm desires to minimize risk wherever pos-
sible. A potential lessor, such as a large and publicly held financial institution, is far more
capable of bearing the risk. Conversely, this situation is not expected to happen when the
user is a blue chip corporation. That potential lessee is more able to bear risk.
Transactions Costs
The costs of changing an asset’s ownership are generally greater
than the costs of writing a lease agreement. Consider the choice that confronts a person who
lives in Los Angeles but must do business in New York for two days. It will clearly be
cheaper to rent a hotel room for two nights than it would be to buy an apartment condo-
minium for two days and then to sell it.
Unfortunately, leases generate agency costs as well. For example, the lessee might mis-
use or overuse the asset, since she has no interest in the asset’s residual value. This cost will
be implicitly paid by the lessee through a high lease payment. Although the lessor can re-
duce these agency costs through monitoring, monitoring itself is costly.
Thus, leasing is most beneficial when the transaction costs of purchase and resale out-
weigh the agency costs and monitoring costs of a lease. Flath argues that this occurs in
short-term leases but not in long-term leases.10
10D. Flath, “The Economics of Short Term Leasing,” Economic Inquiry 18 (April 1980).
$10,000
0.66  A 5
0.05
 $680
0.066
A 5
0.05
A 5
0.05

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
610
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Bad Reasons for Leasing
Leasing and Accounting Income
In our discussion on “Accounting and Leasing,” we
pointed out that a firm’s balance sheet shows fewer liabilities with an operating lease than
with either a capitalized lease or a purchase financed with debt. We indicated that a firm de-
siring to project a strong balance sheet might select an operating lease. In addition, the
firm’s return on assets (ROA) is generally higher with an operating lease than with either a
capitalized lease or a purchase. To see this, we look at the numerator and denominator of
the ROA formula in turn.
With an operating lease, lease payments are treated as an expense. If the asset is pur-
chased, both depreciation and interest charges are expenses. At least in the early part of the
asset’s life, the yearly lease payment is generally less than the sum of yearly depreciation
and yearly interest. Thus, accounting income, the numerator of the ROA formula, is higher
with an operating lease than with a purchase. Because accounting expenses with a capital-
ized lease are analogous to depreciation and interest with a purchase, the increase in ac-
counting income does not occur when a lease is capitalized.
In addition, leased assets do not appear on the balance sheet with an operating lease.
Thus, the total asset value of a firm, the denominator of the ROA formula, is less with an
operating lease than it is with either a purchase or a capitalized lease. The two preceding ef-
fects imply that the firm’s ROA should be higher with an operating lease than with either a
purchase or a capitalized lease.
Of course, in an efficient capital market, accounting information cannot be used to fool
investors. It is unlikely, then, that leasing’s impact on accounting numbers should create
value for the firm. Savvy investors should be able to see through attempts by management
to improve the firm’s financial statements.
One Hundred-Percent Financing
It is often claimed that leasing provides 100-percent
financing, whereas secured equipment loans require an initial down payment. However, we
argued earlier that leases tend to displace debt elsewhere in the firm. Our earlier analysis
suggests that leases do not permit a greater level of total liabilities than do purchases with
borrowing.
Other Reasons
There are, of course, many special reasons that some companies find ad-
vantages in leasing. In one celebrated case, the U.S. Navy leased a fleet of tankers instead
of asking Congress for appropriations. Thus, leasing may be used to circumvent capital-
expenditure control systems set up by bureaucratic firms.
• Summarize the good and bad arguments for leasing.
21.10 SOME UNANSWERED QUESTIONS
Our analysis suggests that the primary advantage of long-term leasing results from the dif-
ferential tax rates of the lessor and the lessee. Other valid reasons for leasing are lower con-
tracting costs and risk reduction. There are several questions our analysis has not specifi-
cally answered.
604
Part V
Long-Term Financing
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
611
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 21
Leasing
605
Are the Uses of Leases and of Debt Complementary?
Ang and Peterson find that firms with high debt tend to lease frequently as well.11 This re-
sult should not be puzzling. The corporate attributes that provide high debt capacity may
also make leasing advantageous. Thus, even though leasing displaces debt (that is, leasing
and borrowing are substitutes) for an individual firm, high debt and high leasing can be pos-
itively associated when one looks at a number of firms.
Why Are Leases Offered by Both Manufacturers 
and Third-Party Lessors?
The offsetting effects of taxes can explain why both manufacturers (for example, computer
firms) and third-party lessors offer leases.
1. For manufacturer lessors, the basis for determining depreciation is the manufacturer’s
cost. For third-party lessors, the basis is the sales price that the lessor paid to the manu-
facturer. Because the sales price is generally greater than the manufacturer’s cost, this is
an advantage to third-party lessors.
2. However, the manufacturer must recognize a profit for tax purposes when selling the asset
to the third-party lessor. The manufacturer’s profit for some equipment can be deferred if
the manufacturer becomes the lessor. This provides an incentive for manufacturers to lease.
Why Are Some Assets Leased More than Others?
Certain assets appear to be leased more frequently than others. Smith and Wakeman have
looked at nontax incentives affecting leasing.12 Their analysis suggests many asset and firm
characteristics that are important in the lease-or-buy decision. The following are among the
things they mention:
1. The more sensitive the value of an asset is to use and maintenance decisions, the more
likely it is that the asset will be purchased instead of leased. They argue that ownership
provides a better incentive to minimize maintenance costs than does leasing.
2. Price-discrimination opportunities may be important. Leasing may be a way of circum-
venting laws against charging too low a price.
21.11 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
A large fraction of America’s equipment is leased rather than purchased. This chapter both describes
the institutional arrangements surrounding leases and shows how to evaluate leases financially.
1. Leases can be separated into two polar types. Though operating leases allow the lessee to use
the equipment, ownership remains with the lessor. Although the lessor in a financial lease
legally owns the equipment, the lessee maintains effective ownership because financial leases
are fully amortized.
11J. Ang and P. P. Peterson, “The Leasing Puzzle,” Journal of Finance 39 (September 1984).
12C. W. Smith, Jr., and L. M. Wakeman, “Determinants of Corporate Leasing Policy,” Journal of Finance (July 1985)

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
612
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
606
Part V
Long-Term Financing
2. When a firm purchases an asset with debt, both the asset and the liability appear on the firm’s
balance sheet. If a lease meets at least one of a number of criteria, it must be capitalized. This
means that the present value of the lease appears as both an asset and a liability. A lease
escapes capitalization if it does not meet any of these criteria. Leases not meeting the criteria
are called operating leases, though the accountant’s definition differs somewhat from the
practitioner’s definition. Operating leases do not appear on the balance sheet. For cosmetic
reasons, many firms prefer that a lease be called operating.
3. Firms generally lease for tax purposes. To protect its interests, the IRS allows financial
arrangements to be classified as leases only if a number of criteria are met.
4. We showed that risk-free cash flows should be discounted at the after-tax risk-free rate.
Because both lease payments and depreciation tax shields are nearly riskless, all relevant
cash flows in the lease-buy decision should be discounted at a rate near this after-tax rate. We
use the real-world convention of discounting at the after-tax interest rate on the lessee’s
secured debt.
5. Though this method is simple, it lacks certain intuitive appeal. In an optional section, we
presented an alternative method in the hopes of increasing the reader’s intuition. Relative to a
lease, a purchase generates debt capacity. This increase in debt capacity can be calculated by
discounting the difference between the cash flows of the purchase and the cash flows of the
lease by the after-tax interest rate. The increase in debt capacity from a purchase is compared
to the extra outflow at year 0 from a purchase.
6. If the lessor is in the same tax bracket as the lessee, the cash flows to the lessor are exactly
the opposite of the cash flows to the lessee. Thus, the sum of the value of the lease to the
lessee plus the value of the lease to the lessor must be zero. While this suggests that leases
can never fly, there are actually at least three good reasons for leasing:
a. Differences in tax brackets between lessor and lessee.
b. Shift of risk-bearing to the lessor.
c. Minimization of transaction costs.
We also document a number of bad reasons for leasing.
KEY TERMS
Debt displacement
597
Leveraged lease
588
Direct leases
587
Off–balance-sheet financing
589
Financial leases
588
Operating lease
587
Lessee
586
Sales and lease-back
588
Lessor
586
Sales-type leases
587
SUGGESTED READINGS
Some evidence on the determination of discount rates used in leasing is found in
Schallheim, J. S.; R. E. Johnson; R. C. Lease; and J. J. McConnell. “The Determinants of Yields
on Financial Leasing Contracts.” Journal of Financial Economics (1987).
Other good articles on leasing are
Bowman, R. G. “The Debt Equivalence of Leases: An Empirical Investigation.” Accounting
Review 55 (April 1980).
Crawford, P. J.; C. P. Harper; and J. J. McConnell. “Further Evidence on the Terms of Financial
Leases.” Financial Management 10 (Autumn 1981).
Franks, J. R., and S. D. Hodges. “Valuation of Financial Lease Contracts: A Note.” Journal of
Finance (May 1978).
Myers, S.; D. A. Dill; and A. J. Bautista. “Valuation of Financial Lease Contracts.” Journal of
Finance (June 1976).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
613
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 21
Leasing
607
Other important readings are
Ang, J., and P. P. Peterson. “The Leasing Puzzle.” Journal of Finance 39 (September 1984).
McConnell, J. J., and J. S. Schallheim. “Valuation of Asset Leasing Contracts.” Journal of
Financial Economics 12 (August 1983).
Schall, L. D. “The Lease-or-Buy and Asset Acquisition Decisions.” Journal of Finance 29
(September 1974).
Sivarama, K. V., and R. C. Moyer. “Bankruptcy Costs and Financial Leasing Decisions.”
Financial Management (1994).
Smith, C. W., Jr., and L. M. Wakeman. “Determinations of Corporate Leasing Policy.” Journal
of Finance (July 1985).
Sorenson, I. W., and R. E. Johnson. “Equipment Financial Leasing Practices and Costs: An
Empirical Study.” Financial Management (Spring 1977).
A complete guide to the lease-versus-buy decision is in
Schallheim, James S. Lease or Buy. Boston, Mass.: Harvard Business School Press, 1994.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
21.1 Discuss the validity of each of the following statements.
a. Leasing reduces risk and can reduce a firm’s cost of capital.
b. Leasing provides 100-percent financing.
c. Firms that do a large amount of leasing will not do much borrowing.
d. If the tax advantages of leasing were eliminated, leasing would disappear.
21.2 Quartz Corporation is a relatively new firm. Quartz has experienced enough losses during
its early years to provide it with at least eight years of tax-loss carryforwards. Thus,
Quartz’s effective tax rate is zero. Quartz plans to lease equipment from New Leasing
Company. The term of the lease is five years. The purchase cost of the equipment is
$250,000. New Leasing Company is in the 35-percent tax bracket. There are no transaction
costs to the lease. Each firm can borrow at 8 percent.
a. What is Quartz’s reservation price?
b. What is New Leasing Company’s reservation price?
c. Explain why these reservation prices determine the negotiating range of the lease.
21.3 Super Sonics Entertainment is considering borrowing money at 11 percent and purchasing
a machine that costs $350,000. The machine will be depreciated over five years by the
straight-line method and will be worthless in five years. Super Sonics can lease the
machine with the year-end payments of $94,200. The corporate tax rate is 35 percent.
Should Super Sonics buy or lease?
21.4 Maxwell, Inc., is entering negotiations for the lease of equipment that has a $200,000
purchase price. Maxwell’s effective tax rate is zero. Maxwell will be negotiating the lease
with Mercer Leasing Corp. The term of the lease is five years. Mercer Leasing Corp. is in
the 35-percent tax bracket. There are no transaction costs to the lease. Each firm can
borrow at 10 percent. What is the negotiating range of the lease?
21.5 Raymond Rayon Corporation wants to expand its manufacturing facilities. Liberty Leasing
Corporation has offered Raymond Rayon the opportunity to lease a machine for $100,000
for five years. The machine will be fully depreciated by the straight-line method. The
corporate tax rate for Raymond Rayon is 25 percent, while Liberty Leasing’s corporate tax
rate is 35 percent. The appropriate before-tax interest rate is 8 percent. Assume lease
payments occur at year-end. What is Raymond’s reservation price? What is Liberty’s
reservation price? What is the negotiating range of the lease?
21.6 An asset costs $86.87. Only straight-line depreciation is allowed for this asset. The asset’s
useful life is two years. It will have no salvage value. The corporate tax rate on ordinary
income is 34 percent. The interest rate on risk-free cash flows is 10 percent.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
614
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
a. What set of lease payments will make the lessee and the lessor equally well off?
b. Show the general condition that will make the value of a lease to the lessor the negative
of the value to the lessee.
c. Assume that the lessee pays no taxes and the lessor is in the 34-percent tax bracket. For
what range of lease payments does the lease have a positive NPV for both parties?
21.7 High electricity costs have made Farmer Corporation’s chicken-plucking machine
economically worthless. There are only two machines available to replace it.
The International Plucking Machine (IPM) model is available only on a lease basis.
The annual, end-of-year payments are $2,100 for five years. This machine will save
Farmer $6,000 per year through reductions in electricity costs in each of the five years.
As an alternative, Farmer can purchase a more energy-efficient machine from Basic
Machine Corporation (BMC) for $15,000. This machine will save $9,000 per year in
electricity costs. A local bank has offered to finance the machine with a $15,000 loan. The
interest rate on the loan will be 10 percent on the remaining balance and five annual
principal payments of $3,000.
Farmer has a target debt-to-asset ratio of 67 percent. Farmer is in the 34-percent tax
bracket. After five years, both machines are worthless. Only straight-line depreciation is
allowed for chicken-plucking machines. The savings that Farmer will enjoy are known
with certainty, because Farmer has a long-term chicken purchase agreement with State
Food Products, Inc., and a four-year backlog of orders.
a. Should Farmer lease the IPM machine or purchase the more efficient BMC machine?
b. Does your answer depend on the form of financing for direct purchase?
c. How much debt is displaced by this lease?
21.8 Redwood Timberland Corporation is a furniture manufacturer that is considering installing
a milling machine for $420,000. The machine will be straight-line depreciated over seven
years and will be worthless after its economic life. Redwood has been financially
distressed and thus the company does not appear to get tax shields over the next seven
years. American Leasing Company has offered to lease the machine over seven years. The
corporate tax rate for Redwood is 35 percent. The appropriate before-tax interest rate is 6
percent for both firms. Lease payments occur at the beginning of the year. What is
Redwood’s reservation price? What is American’s reservation price? What is the
negotiating range of the lease?
21.9 Wolfson Corporation has decided to purchase a new machine that costs $3 million. The
machine will be worthless after three years. Only straight-line method is allowed by the
IRS for this type of machine. Wolfson is in the 35-percent tax bracket.
The Sur Bank has offered Wolfson a three-year loan for $3 million. The repayment
schedule is three yearly principal repayments of $1 million and an interest charge of 12
percent on the outstanding balance of the loan at the beginning of each year. Twelve
percent is the marketwide rate of interest. Both principal repayments and interest are due
at the end of each year.
Cal Leasing Corporation offers to lease the same machine to Wolfson. Lease
payments of $1.2 million per year are due at the end of each of the three years of the lease.
a. Should Wolfson lease the machine or buy it with bank financing?
b. What is the annual lease payment that will make Wolfson indifferent to whether it
leases the machine or purchases it?
Appendix 21A APV APPROACH TO LEASING
The box that appeared earlier in this chapter showed two methods for calculating the NPV
of the lease relative to the purchase:
1. Discount all cash flows at the after-tax interest rate.
608
Part V
Long-Term Financing

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
615
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 21
Leasing
609
2. Compare the purchase price with reduction in optimal debt level under the leasing
alternative.
Surprisingly (and perhaps unfortunately) there is still another method. We feel com-
pelled to present this third method, because it has important links with the adjusted present
value (APV) approach discussed earlier in this text. We illustrate this approach using the
Xomox example developed in Table 21.3.
In a previous chapter, we learned that the APV of any project can be expressed as
APV  All-equity value  Additional effects of debt
In other words, the adjusted present value of a project is the sum of the net present
value of the project when financed by all equity plus the additional effects from debt fi-
nancing. In the context of the lease-versus-buy decision, the APV method can be ex-
pressed as
Net present value of
Adjusted present value
the lease relative to the
Additional effects when
of the lease relative to

purchase when

purchase is financed
the purchase
purchase is financed
with some debt
by all equity
All-Equity Value
From an earlier chapter, we know that the all-equity value is simply the NPV of the cash
flows discounted at the pretax interest rate. For the Xomox example, we know from Table
21.3 that this value is
$592.03  $10,000  $2,330 
This calculation is identical to method 1 in the earlier box except that we are now dis-
counting at the pretax interest rate. The calculation states that the lease is preferred over the
purchase by $592.03 if the purchase is financed by all equity. Because debt financing gen-
erates a tax subsidy, it is not surprising that the lease alternative would be preferred by al-
most $600 over the purchase alternative if debt were not allowed.
Additional Effects of Debt
We learned earlier in the text that the interest tax shield in any year is the interest multiplied
by the corporate tax rate. Taking the interest in each of the five years from Table 21.6, the
present value of the interest tax shield is 
This tax shield must be subtracted from the NPV of the lease because it represents in-
terest deductions not available under the lease alternative. The adjusted present value of the
lease relative to the purchase is 
$87.68  $592.03  $679.71
This value is the same as our calculations from the previous two approaches, implying
that all three approaches are equivalent. The accompanying box presents the APV 
approach.

$328.21
1.0757575 4 
$168.11
1.0757575 5	
$679.71  0.34 
$764.22
1.0757575 
$625.91
1.0757575 2 
$480.69
1.0757575 3
A 5
0.0757575

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
V. Long−Term Financing
21. Leasing
616
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Which approach is easiest to calculate? The first approach is easiest because one need
only discount the cash flows at the after-tax interest rate. Though the second and third ap-
proaches (in the two boxes) look easy, the extra step of calculating the increased debt ca-
pacity is needed for both of them.
Which approach is more intuitive? Our experience is that students generally find the
third method the most intuitive. This is probably because they have already learned the APV
method from a previous chapter. The second method is generally straightforward to those
students who have taken the time to understand the increased-debt-level concept. However,
the first method seems to have the least intuitive appeal because it is merely a mechanical
approach.
Which approach should the practitioner use? The practitioner should use the simplest
approach, which is the first. We included the others only for intuitive appeal.
610
Part V
Long-Term Financing
A THIRD METHOD FOR CALCULATING NET
PRESENT VALUE OF LEASE RELATIVE TO
PURCHASE*†
Method 3: Calculate APV:
All-equity value: $592.03  $10,000  $2,330 
Additional effects of debt:‡
APV  $87.68  $592.03  $679.71
*Because we are calculating the NPV of the lease relative to the purchase, a negative value indicates
that the purchase alternative is preferred.
†The first two methods are shown in the earlier box appearing in this chapter.
‡The firm misses the interest deductions if it leases. Because we are calculating the NPV of the lease
relative to the purchase, the additional effect of debt is a negative number.

$328.21
1.0757575 4 
$168.11
1.0757575 5	
 $679.71   0.34 
$764.22
1.0757575 
$625.91
1.0757575 2 
$480.69
1.0757575 3
A 5
0.0757575

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
Introduction
617
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Options, Futures, and
Corporate Finance
PART VI
22 Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
612
23 Options and Corporate Finance: Extensions and Applications
650
24 Warrants and Convertibles
674
25 Derivatives and Hedging Risk
695
T
HE public has often viewed options and futures as exotic and risky instruments that
individuals enter into at their peril. Although these derivatives can increase risk, they
also have important uses to corporations. In Part VI, we discuss these instruments in de-
tail, showing three basic ideas: Recent advances allow options and futures to be easily
priced. Options are frequently embedded or hidden in the everyday activities of corpo-
rations. Firms can actually use derivatives to reduce risk.
In Chapter 22 we examine options. First we describe the options that trade on or-
ganized exchanges. Options are contingent claims on the value of an underlying asset.
Every issue of corporate security has option features. Later in the chapter we present a
formal model that can be used to value options. The model bears no resemblance to net
present value (NPV). Our goal is to present the underlying logic of option valuation. This
is important because NPV does not work well for contingent claims.
In Chapter 23, we describe some extensions of option pricing theory. There are
option-like features in most investing and financing decisions.
In Chapter 24 we look at bonds with special option features. These bonds are sold
as bonds with warrants and as bonds convertible into common stock. A warrant gives the
holder a right to buy shares of common stock for cash, and a convertible bond gives the
holder the right to exchange it for shares of common stock.
Previous chapters of this text assume that the volatility of the firm is fixed. Chapter
25 shows how firms can use financial instruments to reduce their risk, specifically dis-
cussing financial futures.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
618
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Options and Corporate
Finance: Basic Concepts
CHAPTER 22
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I
n the summer of 2000, General Mills (GM) made an offer to acquire the Pillsbury divi-
sion of Diageo PLC. Although the offer was generous, the managers of Diageo were
worried about the possibility of a decline in GM’s stock price. The deal eventually went
through, due to a creative financing technique called a contingent value rights (CVR). Al-
though CVRs may seem arcane, they are really straightforward applications of options, a
topic to be examined in this chapter.
Options are special contractual arrangements giving the owner the right to buy or sell
an asset at a fixed price anytime on or before a given date. Stock options, the most familiar
type, are options to buy and sell shares of common stock. Ever since 1973, stock options
have been traded on organized exchanges.
Corporate securities are very similar to the stock options that are traded on organized ex-
changes. Almost every issue of corporate bonds and stocks has option features. In addition,
capital-structure decisions and capital-budgeting decisions can be viewed in terms of options.
We start this chapter with a description of different types of publicly traded options.
We identify and discuss the factors that determine their values. Next, we show how com-
mon stocks and bonds can be thought of as options on the underlying value of the firm. This
leads to several new insights concerning corporate finance. For example, we show how cer-
tain corporate decisions can be viewed as options. General Mills’ issuance of a CVR is one
of these corporate decisions.
22.1 OPTIONS
An option is a contract giving its owner the right to buy or sell an asset at a fixed price on
or before a given date. For example, an option on a building might give the buyer the right
to buy the building for $1 million on or anytime before the Saturday prior to the third
Wednesday in January 2010. Options are a unique type of financial contract because they
give the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to do something. The buyer uses the option
only if it is advantageous to do so; otherwise the option can be thrown away.
There is a special vocabulary associated with options. Here are some important definitions:
1. Exercising the Option. The act of buying or selling the underlying asset via the option
contract is referred to as exercising the option.
2. Striking or Exercise Price. The fixed price in the option contract at which the holder
can buy or sell the underlying asset is called the striking price or exercise price.
3. Expiration Date. The maturity date of the option is referred to as the expiration date.
After this date, the option is dead.
4. American and European Options. An American option may be exercised anytime up
to the expiration date. A European option differs from an American option in that it can
be exercised only on the expiration date.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
619
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
22.2 CALL OPTIONS
The most common type of option is a call option. A call option gives the owner the right to
buy an asset at a fixed price during a particular time period. There is no restriction on the kind
of asset, but the most common ones traded on exchanges are options on stocks and bonds.
For example, call options on IBM stock can be purchased on the Chicago Board Options
Exchange. IBM does not issue (that is, sell) call options on its common stock. Instead, indi-
vidual investors are the original buyers and sellers of call options on IBM common stock. A
representative call option on IBM stock enables an investor to buy 100 shares of IBM on or
before July 15, at an exercise price of $100. This is a valuable option if there is some prob-
ability that the price of IBM common stock will exceed $100 on or before July 15.
The Value of a Call Option at Expiration
What is the value of a call-option contract on common stock at expiration? The answer de-
pends on the value of the underlying stock at expiration.
Let’s continue with the IBM example. Suppose the stock price is $130 at expiration.
The buyer1 of the call option has the right to buy the underlying stock at the exercise price
of $100. In other words, he has the right to exercise the call. Having the right to buy some-
thing for $100 when it is worth $130 is obviously a good thing. The value2 of this right is
$30 ($130–$100) on the expiration day.
The call would be worth even more if the stock price were higher on expiration day.
For example, if IBM were selling for $150 on the date of expiration, the call would be worth
$50 ($150–$100) at that time. In fact, the call’s value increases $1 for every $1 rise in the
stock price.
If the stock price is greater than the exercise price, we say that the call is in the money.
Of course, it is also possible that the value of the common stock will turn out to be less than
the exercise price. In this case, we say that the call is out of the money. The holder will not
exercise in this case. For example, if the stock price at the expiration date is $90, no rational
investor would exercise. Why pay $100 for stock worth only $90? Because the option holder
has no obligation to exercise the call, she can walk away from the option. As a consequence,
if IBM’s stock price is less than $100 on the expiration date, the value of the call option will
be 0. In this case the value of the call option is not the difference between IBM’s stock price
and $100, as it would be if the holder of the call option had the obligation to exercise the call.
The payoff of a call option at expiration is
Payoff on the Expiration Date
If Stock Price Is Less Than $100
If Stock Price Is Greater Than $100
Call-option value:
0
Stock price $100
Figure 22.1 plots the value of the call at expiration against the value of IBM’s stock. It
is referred to as the hockey-stick diagram of call-option values. If the stock price is less than
$100, the call is out of the money and worthless. If the stock price is greater than $100, the
call is in the money and its value rises one-for-one with increases in the stock price. Notice
that the call can never have a negative value. It is a limited-liability instrument, which means
that all the holder can lose is the initial amount she paid for it.
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
613
1We use buyer, owner, and holder interchangeably.
2This example assumes that the call lets the holder purchase one share of stock at $100. In reality, a call lets the
holder purchase 100 shares @ $100 per share. The profit would then equal $3000 [($130  $100)  100].

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
620
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
Suppose Mr. Optimist holds a one-year call option on TIX common stock. It is a
European call option and can be exercised at $150. Assume that the expiration date
has arrived. What is the value of the TIX call option on the expiration date? If TIX
is selling for $200 per share, Mr. Optimist can exercise the option—purchase TIX
at $150—and then immediately sell the share at $200. Mr. Optimist will have
made $50 ($200  $150).
Instead, assume that TIX is selling for $100 per share on the expiration date.
If Mr. Optimist still holds the call option, he will throw it out. The value of the TIX
call on the expiration date will be zero in this case.
• What is a call option?
• How is a call option’s price related to the underlying stock price at the expiration date?
22.3 PUT OPTIONS
A put option can be viewed as the opposite of a call option. Just as a call gives the holder
the right to buy the stock at a fixed price, a put gives the holder the right to sell the stock
for a fixed exercise price.
The Value of a Put Option at Expiration
The circumstances that determine the value of the put are the opposite of those for a call
option, because a put option gives the holder the right to sell shares. Let us assume that the
exercise price of the put is $50 and the stock price at expiration is $40. The owner of this
put option has the right to sell the stock for more than it is worth, something that is clearly
614
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
$100
Value of common stock
at expiration ($)
0
Value
of call (C)
at expiration ($)
I FIGURE 22.1 The Value of a Call Option on the Expiration Date
A call option gives the owner the right to buy an asset at a fixed price during a
particular time period. If IBM’s stock price is greater than $100 at the expiration
date, the call’s value is 
Stock price –$100
If IBM’s stock price is less than $100 at this time, the value of the call is zero.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
621
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
profitable. That is, he can buy the stock at the market price of $40 and immediately sell it
at the exercise price of $50, generating a profit of $10 ($50  $40). Thus, the value of the
option at expiration must be $10.
The profit would be greater still if the stock price were lower. For example, if the stock
price were only $30, the value of the option would be $20 ($50  $30). In fact, for every
$1 that the stock price declines at expiration, the value of the put rises by $1.
However, suppose that the stock at expiration is trading at $60—or any price above the
exercise price of $50. The owner of the put would not want to exercise here. It is a losing
proposition to sell stock for $50 when it trades in the open market at $60. Instead, the owner
of the put will walk away from the option. That is, he will let the put option expire.
The payoff of this put option is
Payoff on the Expiration Date Stock
If Stock Price Is Less Than $50
If Stock Price Is Greater Than $50
Put-option value
$50  stock price
0
Figure 22.2 plots the values of a put option for all possible values of the underlying stock.
It is instructive to compare Figure 22.2 with Figure 22.1 for the call option. The call option
is valuable whenever the stock is above the exercise price, and the put is valuable when the
stock price is below the exercise price.
EXAMPLE
Ms. Pessimist feels quite certain that BMI will fall from its current $160-per-share
price. She buys a put. Her put-option contract gives her the right to sell a share of
BMI stock at $150 one year from now. If the price of BMI is $200 on the expira-
tion date, she will tear up the put option contract because it is worthless. That is,
she will not want to sell stock worth $200 for the exercise price of $150.
On the other hand, if BMI is selling for $100 on the expiration date, she will
exercise the option. In this case, she can buy a share of BMI in the market for $100
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
615
50
Value of common stock
at expiration ($)
0
Value
of put (P)
at expiration ($)
50
I FIGURE 22.2 The Value of a Put Option on the Expiration Date
A put option gives the owner the right to sell an asset at a fixed price during a
particular time period. If the stock price is greater than the exercise price of $50,
the put value is zero. If the stock price is less than $50, the put value is
$50 — Stock price

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
622
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
per share and turn around and sell the share at the exercise price of $150. Her profit
will be $50 ($150  $100). The value of the put option on the expiration date
therefore will be $50.
• What is a put option?
• How is a put option’s price related to the underlying stock price at expiration date?
22.4 SELLING OPTIONS
An investor who sells (or writes) a call on common stock promises to deliver shares of the
common stock if required to do so by the call-option holder. Notice that the seller is obli-
gated to do so. 
If, at expiration date, the price of the common stock is greater than the exercise price,
the holder will exercise the call and the seller must give the holder shares of stock in ex-
change for the exercise price. The seller loses the difference between the stock price and the
exercise price. For example, assume that the stock price is $60 and the exercise price is $50.
Knowing that exercise is imminent, the option seller buys stock in the open market at $60.
Because she is obligated to sell at $50, she loses $10 ($50  $60). Conversely, if at the ex-
piration date, the price of the common stock is below the exercise price, the call option will
not be exercised and the seller’s liability is zero.
Why would the seller of a call place himself in such a precarious position? After all,
the seller loses money if the stock price ends up above the exercise price and he merely
avoids losing money if the stock price ends up below the exercise price. The answer is that
the seller is paid to take this risk. On the day that the option transaction takes place, the
seller receives the price that the buyer pays.
Now, let’s look at the seller of puts. An investor who sells a put on common stock agrees
to purchase shares of common stock if the put holder should so request. The seller loses on
this deal if the stock price falls below the exercise price and the holder puts the stock to the
seller. For example, assume that the stock price is $40 and the exercise price is $50. The holder
of the put will exercise in this case. In other words, he will sell the underlying stock at the ex-
ercise price of $50. This means that the seller of the put must buy the underlying stock at the
exercise price of $50. Because the stock is only worth $40, the loss here is $10 ($40  $50).
The values of the “sell-a-call” and “sell-a-put” positions are depicted in Figure 22.3.
The graph on the left-hand side of the figure shows that the seller of a call loses nothing
when the stock price at expiration date is below $50. However, the seller loses a dollar for
every dollar that the stock rises above $50. The graph in the center of the figure shows that
the seller of a put loses nothing when the stock price at expiration date is above $50.
However, the seller loses a dollar for every dollar that the stock falls below $50.
It is worthwhile to spend a few minutes comparing the graphs in Figure 22.3 to those
in Figures 22.1 and 22.2. The graph of selling a call (the graph in the left-hand side of Figure
22.3) is the mirror image3 of the graph of buying a call (Figure 22.1). This occurs because
options are a zero-sum game. The seller of a call loses what the buyer makes. Similarly, the
graph of selling a put (the middle graph in Figure 22.3) is the mirror image of the graph of
buying a put (Figure 22.2). Again, the seller of a put loses what the buyer makes.
616
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
3Actually, because of differing exercise prices, the two graphs are not quite mirror images of each other. The
exercise price in Figure 22.1 is $100 and the exercise price in Figure 22.3 is $50.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
623
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Figure 22.3 also shows the value at expiration of simply buying common stock. Notice
that buying the stock is the same as buying a call option on the stock with an exercise price
of zero. This is not surprising. If the exercise price is 0, the call holder can buy the stock for
nothing, which is really the same as owning it.
22.5 READING THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Now that we understand the definitions for calls and puts, let’s see how these options are
quoted. Table 22.1 presents information on the options of Microsoft Corporation from a re-
cent issue of The Wall Street Journal (WSJ). The options are traded on the Chicago Board
Options Exchange, one of a number of options exchanges. The first column tells us that the
stock of Microsoft closed at $903⁄8 per share on the previous day. Now consider the second
and third columns. The closing price for an option maturing at the end of April with a strike
price of $85 was $61⁄8. Because the option is sold as a 100-share contract, the cost of the con-
tract is $612.5 (100  $61⁄8) before commissions. The call maturing in April with an exer-
cise price of $90 closed at $29⁄16. The call with an exercise price of $85 maturing in October
did not trade during the day, as indicated by —.
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
617
50
Share
price
at expiration
($)
0
Value of
seller’s position
at expiration ($)
Sell a call
50
Share
price
at expiration
($)
0
Value of
seller’s position
at expiration ($)
Sell a put
50
Share
price
($)
0
Value of
a share of
common stock ($)
Buy a common stock
50
–50
I FIGURE 22.3 The Payoffs to Sellers of Calls and Puts, and to Buyers of Common Stock
I TABLE 22.1 Information on the Options of Microsoft Corporation
Chicago Board
Calls—Last
Puts—Last
Option and
Strike
NY Close
Price
April
July
Oct.
April
July
Oct.
Microsoft
903⁄8
85
61⁄8
93⁄4
—
9⁄16
31⁄2
—
903⁄8
90
29⁄16
71⁄4
97⁄8
2
5
7
903⁄8
95
11⁄16
43⁄4
—
5
8
—

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
624
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The last three columns display quotes on puts. For example, a put maturing in April
with an exercise price of $95 sells at $5.
22.6 COMBINATIONS OF OPTIONS
Puts and calls can serve as building blocks for more complex option contracts. For exam-
ple, Figure 22.4 illustrates the payoff from buying a put option on a stock and simultane-
ously buying the stock.
If the share price is greater than the exercise price, the put option is worthless, and the
value of the combined position is equal to the value of the common stock. If instead the ex-
ercise price is greater than the share price, the decline in the value of the shares will be ex-
actly offset by the rise in value of the put.
The strategy of buying a put and buying the underlying stock is called a protective put.
It is as if one is buying insurance for the stock. The stock can always be sold at the exercise
price, regardless of how far the market price of the stock falls.
Note that the combination of buying a put and buying the underlying stock has the same
shape in Figure 22.4 as the call purchase in Figure 22.1. To pursue this point, let’s consider
the graph for buying a call, which is shown at the far left of Figure 22.5. This graph is the
same as Figure 22.1, except that the exercise price is $50 here. Now, let’s try the strategy of:
(Leg A) Buying a call.
(Leg B) Buying a zero-coupon bond with a face value of $50 that matures on the same
day that the option expires.
We have drawn the graph of Leg A of this strategy at the far left of Figure 22.5, but
what does the graph of Leg B look like? It looks like the middle graph of the figure. That
is, anyone buying this zero-coupon bond will be guaranteed to get $50, regardless of the
price of the stock at expiration.
What does the graph of simultaneously buying both Leg A and Leg B of this strategy
look like? It looks like the far right graph of Figure 22.5. That is, the investor receives a
guaranteed $50 from the bond, regardless of what happens to the stock. In addition, the in-
vestor receives a payoff from the call of $1 for every $1 that the price of the stock rises
above the exercise price of $50.
618
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
50
Value of
common
stock
at expiration
($)
0
Value of
stock position
at expiration ($)
Buy stock
50
Value of
common
stock
at expiration
($)
0
Value of
put position
at expiration ($)
Buy put
50
Value of
common
stock
at expiration
($)
0
Value of combination
of stock and put
position at expiration ($)
Combination
50
50
50
+
+
=
=
I FIGURE 22.4 Payoff to the Combination of Buying a Put and Buying the Underlying Stock

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
625
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The far-right graph of Figure 22.5 looks exactly like the far-right graph of Figure 22.4.
Thus, an investor gets the same payoff from the strategy of Figure 22.4, and the strategy of
Figure 22.5, regardless of what happens to the price of the underlying stock. In other words,
the investor gets the same payoff from
1. Buying a put and buying the underlying stock.
2. Buying a call and buying a zero-coupon bond.
If investors have the same payoffs from the two strategies, the two strategies must have
the same cost. Otherwise, all investors will choose the strategy with the lower cost and avoid
the strategy with the higher cost. This leads to the interesting result that:
Price of underlying stock  Price of put  Price of call  Present value of exercise price.
Cost of first strategy
Cost of second strategy
(22.1)
This relationship is known as put-call parity and is one of the most fundamental rela-
tionships concerning options. It says that there are two ways of buying a protective put. You
can buy a put and buy the underlying stock simultaneously. Here, your total cost is the price
of the underlying stock plus the price of the put. Or, you can buy the call and buy a zero-
coupon bond. Here, your total cost is the price of the call plus the price of the zero-coupon
bond. The price of the zero-coupon bond is equal to the present value of the exercise price,
i.e., the present value of $50 in our example.
Equation (22.1) is a very precise relationship. It holds only if the put and the call have
both the same exercise price and the same expiration date. In addition, the maturity date of
the zero-coupon bond must be the same as the expiration date of the options.
To see how fundamental put-call parity is, let’s rearrange the formula, yielding:
Price of underlying stock  Price of call  Price of put  Present value of exercise price
This relationship now states that you can replicate the purchase of a share of stock by buy-
ing a call, selling a put, and buying a zero-coupon bond. (Note that, because a minus sign
comes before “Price of put,” the put is sold, not bought.) Investors in this three-legged strat-
egy are said to have purchased a synthetic stock.
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
619
50
50
Buy call
Buy zero-
coupon bond
50
Value of
call position
at expiration ($)
Value of
zero-coupon bond
at expiration ($)
Combination
50
Value of combination
of call  and zero-
coupon bond
at expiration ($)
Value of
common
stock at
expiration 
($)
Value of
common
stock at
expiration 
($)
Value of
common
stock at
expiration 
($)
0
I FIGURE 22.5 Payoff to the Combination of Buying a Call and Buying a Zero-Coupon Bond
The graph of buying a call and buying a zero-coupon bond is the same as the graph of buying a put and buying the stock in
Figure 22.4

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
626
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Let’s do one more transformation:
Covered-call Strategy
Price of underlying stock  Price of call  Price of put  Present value of exercise price
Many investors like to buy a stock and write the call on the stock simultaneously. This
is a conservative strategy known as selling a covered call. The preceding put-call parity re-
lationship tells us that this strategy is equivalent to selling a put and buying a zero-coupon
bond. Figure 22.6 develops the graph for the covered call. You can verify that the covered
call can be replicated by selling a put and simultaneously buying a zero-coupon bond.
Of course, there are other ways of rearranging the basic put-call relationship. For each
rearrangement, the strategy on the left-hand side is equivalent to the strategy on the right-
hand side. The beauty of put-call parity is that it shows how any strategy in options can be
achieved in two different ways.
• What is put-call parity?
22.7 VALUING OPTIONS
In the last section we determined what options are worth on the expiration date. Now we
wish to determine the value of options when you buy them well before expiration.4 We be-
gin by considering the lower and upper bounds on the value of a call.
620
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
50
50
Value of stock
at expiration ($)
Buy a stock
Sell a call
Buy a stock plus
sell a call
Value of selling a
call at expiration ($)
50
Value of combination
of buying a stock and
selling a call
Value of
stock at
expiration
($)
Value of
stock at
expiration
($)
Value of
stock at
expiration
($)
0
I FIGURE 22.6 Payoff to the Combination of Buying a Stock and Writing a Call
4Our discussion in this section is of American options, because they are traded in the real world. As necessary,
we will indicate differences for European options.
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
627
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Bounding the Value of a Call
Lower Bound
Consider an American call that is in the money prior to expiration. For ex-
ample, assume that the stock price is $60 and the exercise price is $50. In this case, the op-
tion cannot sell below $10. To see this, note the simple strategy if the option sells at, say, $9.
Date
Transaction
Today
(1)
Buy call.
$ 9
Today
(2)
Exercise call, that is,
$50
buy underlying stock 
at exercise price.
Today
(3)
Sell stock at current
$60
market price.
____
Arbitrage profit
$ 1
The type of profit that is described in this transaction is an arbitrage profit. Arbitrage prof-
its come from transactions that have no risk or cost and cannot occur regularly in normal,
well-functioning financial markets. The excess demand for these options would quickly
force the option price up to at least $10 ($60  $50).5
Of course, the price of the option is likely to sell above $10. Investors will rationally pay
more than $10 because of the possibility that the stock will rise above $60 before expiration.
Upper Bound
Is there an upper boundary for the option price as well? It turns out that
the upper boundary is the price of the underlying stock. That is, an option to buy common
stock cannot have a greater value than the common stock itself. A call option can be used
to buy common stock with a payment of an exercise price. It would be foolish to buy stock
this way if the stock could be purchased directly at a lower price.
The upper and lower bounds are represented in Figure 22.7. In addition, these bounds
are summarized in the bottom half of Table 22.2.
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
621
5It should be noted that this lower bound is strictly true for an American option but not for a European option.
Exercise
price
Value of common
stock prior to
expiration date
Value
of call prior
to expiration date
Upper =  Price
bound     of stock
Lower =  Price     – Exercise
bound     of stock    price
I FIGURE 22.7 The Upper and Lower Boundaries of Call-Option Values
Value of the call must lie in the colored region.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
628
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The Factors Determining Call-Option Values
The previous discussion indicated that the price of a call option must fall somewhere in the
shaded region of Figure 22.7. We now will determine more precisely where in the shaded
region it should be. The factors that determine a call’s value can be broken into two sets.
The first set contains the features of the option contract. The two basic contractual features
are the expiration price and the exercise date. The second set of factors affecting the call
price concerns characteristics of the stock and the market.
Exercise Price
An increase in the exercise price reduces the value of the call. For exam-
ple, imagine that there are two calls on a stock selling at $60. The first call has an exercise
price of $50 and the second one has an exercise price of $40. Which call would you rather
have? Clearly, you would rather have the call with an exercise price of $40, because that
one is $20 ($60  $40) in the money. In other words, the call with an exercise price of $40
should sell for more than an otherwise-identical call with an exercise price of $50.
Expiration Date
The value of an American call option must be at least as great as the
value of an otherwise identical option with a shorter term to expiration. Consider two Amer-
ican calls: One has a maturity of nine months and the other expires in six months. Obvi-
ously, the nine-month call has the same rights as the six-month call, and also has an addi-
tional three months within which these rights can be exercised. It cannot be worth less and
will generally be more valuable.6
Stock Price
Other things being equal, the higher the stock price, the more valuable the
call option will be. For example, if a stock is worth $80, a call with an exercise price of $100
isn’t worth very much. If the stock soars to $120, the call becomes much more valuable.
Now consider Figure 22.8, which shows the relationship between the call price and the
stock price prior to expiration. The curve indicates that the call price increases as the stock
price increases. Furthermore, it can be shown that the relationship is represented, not by a
straight line, but by a convex curve. That is, the increase in the call price for a given change
in the stock price is greater when the stock price is high than when the stock price is low.
There are two special points on the curve in Figure 22.8:
1. The Stock Is Worthless. The call must be worthless if the underlying stock is worthless.
That is, if the stock has no chance of attaining any value, it is not worthwhile to pay the
exercise price in order to obtain the stock.
2. The Stock Price Is Very High Relative to the Exercise Price. In this situation, the owner
of the call knows that he will end up exercising the call. He can view himself as the owner
of the stock now, with one difference. He must pay the exercise price at expiration.
Thus, the value of his position, i.e., the value of the call, is:
Stock price  Present value of exercise price
These two points on the curve are summarized in the bottom half of Table 22.2.
622
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
6This relationship need not hold for a European call option. Consider a firm with two otherwise identical
European call options, one expiring at the end of May and the other expiring a few months later. Further assume
that a huge dividend is paid in early June. If the first call is exercised at the end of May, its holder will receive
the underlying stock. If he does not sell the stock, he will receive the large dividend shortly thereafter. However,
the holder of the second call will receive the stock through exercise after the dividend is paid. Because the
market knows that the holder of this option will miss the dividend, the value of the second call option could be
less than the value of the first.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
629
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The Key Factor: The Variability of the Underlying Asset
The greater the variability of
the underlying asset, the more valuable the call option will be. Consider the following ex-
ample. Suppose that just before the call expires, the stock price will be either $100 with
probability 0.5 or $80 with probability 0.5. What will be the value of a call with an exercise
price of $110? Clearly, it will be worthless because no matter what happens to the stock, its
price will always be below the exercise price.
Now let us see what happens if the stock is more variable. Suppose that we add $20 to
the best case and take $20 away from the worst case. Now the stock has a one-half chance
of being worth $60 and a one-half chance of being worth $120. We have spread the stock
returns, but, of course, the expected value of the stock has stayed the same:
(1/2  $80)  (1/2  $100)  $90  (1/2  $60)  (1/2  $120)
Notice that the call option has value now because there is a one-half chance that the
stock price will be $120, or $10 above the exercise price of $110. This illustrates a very im-
portant point. There is a fundamental distinction between holding an option on an underly-
ing asset and holding the underlying asset. If investors in the marketplace are risk-averse, a
rise in the variability of the stock will decrease its market value. However, the holder of a
call receives payoffs from the positive tail of the probability distribution. As a consequence,
a rise in the variability in the underlying stock increases the market value of the call.
This result can also be seen from Figure 22.9. Consider two stocks, A and B, each of
which is normally distributed. For each security, the figure illustrates the probability of dif-
ferent stock prices on the expiration date.7 As can be seen from the figures, stock B has more
volatility than does stock A. This means that stock B has higher probability of both abnor-
mally high returns and abnormally low returns. Let us assume that options on each of the
two securities have the same exercise price. To option holders, a return much below aver-
age on stock B is no worse than a return only moderately below average on stock A. In ei-
ther situation, the option expires out of the money. However, to option holders, a return
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
623
Exercise
price
Value of
stock prior to
expiration date
Value of
call prior to
expiration date
Maximum
value of call
Minimum
value of call
Value of call as
function of
stock price
I FIGURE 22.8 Value of an American Call as a Function of Stock Price
The call price is positively related to the stock price. In addition,
the change in the call price for a given change in the stock price is
greater when the stock price is high than when it is low.
7This graph assumes that, for each security, the exercise price is equal to the expected stock price. This
assumption is employed merely to facilitate the discussion. It is not needed to show the relationship between a
call’s value and the volatility of the underlying stock.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
630
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
much above average on stock B is better than a return only moderately above average on
stock A. Because a call’s price at the expiration date is the difference between the stock price
and the exercise price, the value of the call on B at expiration will be higher in this case.
The Interest Rate
Call prices are also a function of the level of interest rates. Buyers of
calls do not pay the exercise price until they exercise the option, if they do so at all. The
ability to delay payment is more valuable when interest rates are high and less valuable
when interest rates are low. Thus, the value of a call is positively related to interest rates.
A Quick Discussion of Factors Determining Put-Option Values
Given our extended discussion of the factors influencing a call’s value, we can examine the
effect of these factors on puts very easily. Table 22.2 summarizes the five factors influenc-
ing the prices of both American calls and American puts. The effect of three factors on puts
are the opposite of the effect of these three factors on calls:
1. The put’s market value decreases as the stock price increases because puts are in the
money when the stock sells below the exercise price.
2. The value of a put with a high exercise price is greater than the value of an otherwise
identical put with a low exercise price for the reason given in (1).
3. A high interest rate adversely affects the value of a put. The ability to sell a stock at a
fixed exercise price sometime in the future is worth less if the present value of the exer-
cise price is diminished by a high interest rate.
The effect of the other two factors on puts is the same as the effect of these factors on calls:
4. The value of an American put with a distant expiration date is greater than an otherwise
identical put with an earlier expiration.8 The longer time to maturity gives the put holder
more flexibility, just as it did in the case of a call.
624
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
Probability
Price of common
stock at expiration
Exercise price
A
B
I FIGURE 22.9 Distribution of Common-Stock Price at Expiration for
Both Security A and Security B. Options on the Two
Securities Have the Same Exercise Price.
The call on stock B is worth more than the call on stock A because stock B is more volatile. At
expiration, a call that deep in the money is more valuable than a call that is only slightly in the
money. However, at expiration, a call way out of the money is worth zero, just as is a call only
slightly out of the money.
8Though this result must hold in the case of an American put, it need not hold for a European put.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
631
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
5. Volatility of the underlying stock increases the value of the put. The reasoning is analo-
gous to that for a call. At expiration, a put that is way in the money is more valuable than
a put only slightly in the money. However, at expiration, a put way out of the money is
worth zero, just as is a put only slightly out of the money.
• List the factors that determine the value of options.
• Why does a stock’s variability affect the value of options written on it?
22.8 AN OPTION-PRICING FORMULA
We have explained qualitatively that the value of a call option is a function of five variables:
1. The current price of the underlying asset, which for stock options is the price of a share
of common stock.
2. The exercise price.
3. The time to expiration date.
4. The variance of the underlying asset.
5. The risk-free interest rate.
It is time to replace the qualitative model with a precise option-valuation model. The
model we choose is the famous Black-Scholes option-pricing model. You can put numbers
into the Black-Scholes model and get values back.
The Black-Scholes model is represented by a rather imposing formula. A derivation of
the formula is simply not possible in this textbook, as the students will be happy to learn.
However, some appreciation for the achievement as well as some intuitive understanding is
in order.
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
625
I TABLE 22.2 Factors Affecting American Option Values
Increase in
Call Option*
Put Option*
Value of underlying asset (stock price)


Exercise price


Stock volatility


Interest rate


Time to exercise date


In addition to the preceding, we have presented the following four relationships for American calls:
1. The call price can never be greater than the stock price (upper bound).
2. The call price can never be less than either zero or the difference between the stock price and
the exercise price (lower bound).
3. The call is worth zero if the stock is worth zero.
4. When the stock price is much greater than the exercise price, the call price tends toward the
difference between the stock price and the present value of the exercise price.
*The signs (, ) indicate the effect of the variables on the value of the option. For example, the two s for
stock volatility indicate that an increase in volatility will increase both the value of a call and the value of a put.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
632
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
In the early chapters of this book, we showed how to discount capital-budgeting proj-
ects using the net-present-value formula. We also used this approach to value stocks and
bonds. Why, students sometimes ask, can’t the same NPV formula be used to value puts and
calls? It is a good question because the earliest attempts at valuing options used NPV.
Unfortunately, the attempts were simply not successful because no one could determine the
appropriate discount rate. An option is generally riskier than the underlying stock but no
one knew exactly how much riskier.
Black and Scholes attacked the problem by pointing out that a strategy of borrowing to
finance a stock purchase duplicates the risk of a call. Then, knowing the price of a stock al-
ready, one can determine the price of a call such that its return is identical to that of the
stock-with-borrowing alternative.
We illustrate the intuition behind the Black-Scholes approach by considering a simple
example where a combination of a call and a stock eliminates all risk. This example works
because we let the future stock price be one of only two values. Hence, the example is called
a two-state option model. By eliminating the possibility that the stock price can take on
other values, we are able to duplicate the call exactly.
A Two-State Option Model
Consider the following example. Suppose the current market price of a stock is $50 and the
stock will either be $60 or $40 at the end of the year. Further, imagine a call option on this
stock with a one-year expiration date and a $50 exercise price. Investors can borrow at 10
percent. Our goal is to determine the value of the call.
In order to value the call correctly, we need to examine two strategies. The first is to
simply buy the call. The second is to:
a. Buy one-half a share of stock.
b. Borrow $18.18, implying a payment of principal and interest at the end of the year of
$20 ($18.18  1.10).
As you will see shortly, the cash flows from the second strategy exactly match the cash
flows from buying a call. (A little later we will show how we came up with the exact frac-
tion of a share of stock to buy and the exact borrowing amount.) Because the cash flows
match, we say that we are duplicating the call with the second strategy.
At the end of the year, the future payoffs are set out as follows:
Future Payoffs
Initial Transactions
If Stock Price Is $60
If Stock Price Is $40
1. Buy a call
$60  $50

$10
0
2. Buy 1⁄2 share of stock
1⁄2  $60

$30
1⁄2  $40 
$20
Borrow $18.18 at 10%
($18.18  1.10)

$20
$20
_____
_____
Total from stock and borrowing strategy
$10
0
Note that the future payoff structure of the “buy-a-call” strategy is duplicated by the
strategy of “buy stock” and “borrow.” That is, under either strategy, an investor would end
up with $10 if the stock price rose and $0 if the stock price fell. Thus, these two strategies
are equivalent as far as traders are concerned.
Now, if two strategies always have the same cash flows at the end of the year, how must
their initial costs be related? The two strategies must have the same initial cost. Otherwise,
there will be an arbitrage possibility. We can easily calculate this cost for our strategy of
buying stock and borrowing. This cost is:
626
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
633
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Buy 1⁄2 share of stock
1⁄2  $50 
$25.00
Borrow $18.18
$18.18
_______
$6.82
Because the call option provides the same payoffs at expiration as does the strategy of
buying stock and borrowing, the call must be priced at $6.82. This is the value of the call
option in a market without arbitrage profits.
We left two issues unexplained in the preceding example.
Determining the Delta
How did we know to buy one-half share of stock in the duplicat-
ing strategy? Actually, the answer is easier than it might at first appear. The call price at the
end of the year will be either $10 or $0, whereas the stock price will be either $60 or $40.
Thus, the call price has a potential swing of $10 ($10  $0) next period, whereas the stock
price has a potential swing of $20 ($60  $40). We can write this in terms of the following
ratio:
Delta
1⁄2
This ratio is called the delta of the call. In words, a $1 swing in the price of the stock gives
rise to a $1/2 swing in the price of the call. Because we are trying to duplicate the call with
the stock, it seems sensible to buy one-half share of stock instead of buying one call. In other
words, the risk of buying one-half share of stock should be the same as the risk of buying
one call.
Determining the Amount of Borrowing
How did we know how much to borrow? Buy-
ing one-half share of stock brings us either $30 or $20 at expiration, which is exactly $20
more than the payoffs of $10 and $0, respectively, from the call. To duplicate the call
through a purchase of stock, we should also borrow enough money so that we have to pay
back exactly $20 of interest and principal. This amount of borrowing is merely the present
value of $20, which is $18.18 ($20/1.10).
Now that we know how to determine both the delta and the borrowing, we can write
the value of the call as:
Value of call  Stock price  Delta  Amount borrowed
(22.2)
$6.82

$50

1⁄2

$18.18
We will find this intuition very useful in explaining the Black-Scholes model.
Risk-Neutral Valuation
Before leaving this simple example, we should comment on a
remarkable feature. We found the exact value of the option without even knowing the prob-
ability that the stock would go up or down! If an optimist thought the probability of an up
move was very high and a pessimist thought it was very low, they would still agree on the
option value. How could that be? The answer is that the current $50 stock price already bal-
ances the views of the optimists and the pessimists. The option reflects that balance because
its value depends on the stock price.
This insight provides us with another approach to valuing the call. If we don’t need the
probabilities of the two states to value the call, perhaps we can select any probabilities we
want and still come up with the right answer. Suppose we selected probabilities such that
the return on the stock is equal to the risk-free rate of 10 percent. We know that the stock
Swing of call
Swing of stock  $10  $0
$60  $40 
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
627

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
634
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
return given a rise is 20 percent ($60/$50  1) and the stock return given a fall is 20 per-
cent ($40/$50  1). Thus, we can solve for the probability of a rise necessary to achieve an
expected return of 10 percent as:
10%  Probability of a rise  20%  (1  Probability of rise)  20%
Solving this formula, we find that the probability of a rise is 3/4 and the probability of
a fall is 1/4. If we apply these probabilities to the call, we can value it as:
the same value that we got from the duplicating approach.
Why did we select probabilities such that the expected return on the stock is 10 percent?
We wanted to work with the special case where investors are risk-neutral. This case occurs
where the expected return on any asset (including both the stock and the call) is equal to the
risk-free rate. In other words, this case occurs when investors demand no additional com-
pensation beyond the risk-free rate, regardless of the risk of the asset in question.
What would have happened if we had assumed that the expected return on a stock was
greater than the risk-free rate? The value of the call would still be $6.82. However, the cal-
culations would be difficult. For example, if we assumed that the expected return on the
stock was, say, 11 percent, we would have had to derive the expected return on the call.
Although the expected return on the call would be higher than 11 percent, it would take a
lot of work to determine it precisely. Why do any more work than you have to? Because we
can’t think of any good reason, we (and most other financial economists) choose to assume
risk-neutrality.
Thus, the preceding material allows us to value a call in the following two ways:
1. Determine the cost of a strategy to duplicate the call. This strategy involves an invest-
ment in a fractional share of stock financed by partial borrowing.
2. Calculate the probabilities of a rise and a fall under the assumption of risk-neutrality.
Use those probabilities, in conjunction with the risk-free rate, to discount the payoffs of the
call at expiration.
The Black-Scholes Model
The preceding example illustrates the duplicating strategy. Unfortunately, a strategy such as
this will not work in the real world over, say, a one-year time frame, because there are many
more than two possibilities for next year’s stock price. However, the number of possibilities
is reduced as the time period is shortened. In fact, the assumption that there are only two pos-
sibilities for the stock price over the next infinitesimal instant is quite plausible.9
In our opinion, the fundamental insight of Black and Scholes is to shorten the time pe-
riod. They show that a specific combination of stock and borrowing can indeed duplicate a
call over an infinitesimal time horizon. Because the price of the stock will change over the
first instant, another combination of stock and borrowing is needed to duplicate the call over
the second instant and so on. By adjusting the combination from moment to moment, they
can continually duplicate the call. It may boggle the mind that a formula can (1) determine
the duplicating combination at any moment and (2) value the option based on this dupli-
cating strategy. Suffice it to say that their dynamic strategy allows them to value a call in
the real world just as we showed how to value the call in the two-state model.
Value of call 
34  $10  14  $0
1.10
 $6.82
628
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
9A full treatment of this assumption can be found in John C. Hull, Options, Futures and Other Derivatives, 4th
ed. Upper Saddle River, N.J.: Prentice Hall (1999). 

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
635
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
This is the basic intuition behind the Black-Scholes (BS) model. Because the actual
derivation of their formula is, alas, far beyond the scope of this text, we simply present the
formula itself. The formula is
Black-Scholes Model:
C  SN(d1)  Eert N(d2)
where
d1  [ln(S/E)  (r  1/22)t]/
d2  d1 
This formula for the value of a call, C, is one of the most complex in finance. However,
it involves only five parameters:
1. S  Current stock price
2. E  Exercise price of call
3. r  Annual risk-free rate of return, continually compounded
4. 2  Variance (per year) of the continuous return on the stock
5. t  Time (in years) to expiration date
In addition, there is the statistical concept:
N(d)  Probability that a standardized, normally distributed,
random variable will be less than or equal to d
Rather than discuss the formula in its algebraic state, we illustrate the formula with an
example.
EXAMPLE
Consider Private Equipment Company (PEC). On October 4, of year 0, the PEC
April 49 call option had a closing value of $4. The stock itself is selling at $50. On
October 4 the option had 199 days to expiration (maturity date  April 21,Year 1).
The annual risk-free interest rate, continually compounded, is 7 percent.
This information determines three variables directly:
1. The stock price, S, is $50.
2. The exercise price, E, is $49.
3. The risk-free rate, r, is 0.07.
In addition, the time to maturity, t, can be calculated quickly: The formula calls for
t to be expressed in years.
4. We express the 199-day interval in years as t  199/365.
In the real world, an option trader would know S and E exactly. Traders gen-
erally view U.S. Treasury bills as riskless, so a current quote from The Wall Street
Journal or a similar newspaper would be obtained for the interest rate. The trader
would also know (or could count) the number of days to expiration exactly. Thus,
the fraction of a year to expiration, t, could be calculated quickly.
The problem comes in determining the variance of the stock’s return. The for-
mula calls for the variance in operation between the purchase date of October 4
and the expiration date. Unfortunately, this represents the future, so the correct
value for variance is simply not available. Instead, traders frequently estimate vari-
ance from past data, just as we calculated variance in an earlier chapter. In addi-
tion, some traders may use intuition to adjust their estimate. For example, if an-
ticipation of an upcoming event is currently increasing the volatility of the stock,
2t
2t
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
629

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
636
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
the trader might adjust her estimate of variance upward to reflect this. (This prob-
lem was most severe right after the October 19, 1987, crash. The stock market was
quite risky in the aftermath, so estimates using precrash data were too low.)
The above discussion was intended merely to mention the difficulties in vari-
ance estimation, not to present a solution. For our purposes, we assume that a
trader has come up with an estimate of variance:
5. The variance of Private Equipment Co. has been estimated to be 0.09 per year.
Using the above five parameters, we calculate the Black-Scholes value of the
PEC option in three steps:
Step 1: Calculate d1 and d2. These values can be determined by a straightfor-
ward, albeit tedious, insertion of our parameters into the basic formula. We have
 [0.0202  0.0627]/0.2215  0.3742
d2  d1 
 0.1527
Step 2: Calculate N(d1) and N(d2). The values N(d1) and N(d2) can best be un-
derstood by examining Figure 22.10. The figure shows the normal distribution
with an expected value of 0 and a standard deviation of 1. This is frequently called
the standardized normal distribution. We mentioned in an earlier chapter that
the probability that a drawing from this distribution will be between 1 and 1
(within one standard deviation of its mean, in other words) is 68.26 percent.
Now, let us ask a different question. What is the probability that a drawing
from the standardized normal distribution will be below a particular value? For ex-
ample, the probability that a drawing will be below 0 is clearly 50 percent because
the normal distribution is symmetric. Using statistical terminology, we say that the
cumulative probability of 0 is 50 percent. Statisticians also say that N(0)  50%.
It turns out that
N(d1)  N(0.3742)  0.6459
N(d2)  N(0.1527)  0.5607
2t
  ln
50
49  0.07  12  0.09  199
365	0.09  199
365 
 d1  ln
S
E  r  122t	2t
630
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
Probability
Value
–1
0
0.3742 1
I FIGURE 22.10 Graph of Cumulative Probability
Shaded area represents cumulative probability. Because the probability is 0.6459
that a drawing from the standard normal distribution will be below 0.3742, we say
that N(0.3742)  0.6459. That is, the cumulative probability of 0.3742 is 0.6459.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
637
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The first value means that there is a 64.59-percent probability that a drawing from
the standardized normal distribution will be below 0.3742. The second value
means that there is a 56.07-percent probability that a drawing from the standard-
ized normal distribution will be below 0.1527. More generally, N(d) is the nota-
tion that a drawing from the standardized normal distribution will be below d. In
other words, N(d) is the cumulative probability of d. Note that d1 and d2 in our ex-
ample are slightly above zero, so N(d1) and N(d2) are slightly greater than 0.50.
Perhaps the easiest way to determine N(d1) and N(d2) is from the EXCEL
function NORMSDIST. In our example, NORMSDIST (0.3742) and NORMS-
DIST (0.1527) are 0.6459 and 0.5607, respectively.
We can also determine the cumulative probability from Table 22.3. For ex-
ample, consider d  0.37. This can be found in the table as 0.3 on the vertical and
0.07 on the horizontal. The value in the table for d  0.37 is 0.1443. This value is
not the cumulative probability of 0.37. One must first make an adjustment to de-
termine cumulative probability. That is,
N(0.37)  0.50  0.1443  0.6443
N(0.37)  0.50  0.1443  0.3557
Unfortunately, our table handles only two significant digits, whereas our
value of 0.3742 has four significant digits. Hence, we must interpolate to find
N(0.3742). Because N(0.37)  0.6443 and N(0.38)  0.6480, the difference be-
tween the two values is 0.0037 (0.6480  0.6443). Because 0.3742 is 42 percent
of the way between 0.37 and 0.38, we interpolate as10
N(0.3742)  0.6443  0.42  0.0037  0.6459
Step 3: Calculate C. We have
C  S  [N(d1)]  Eert  [N(d2)]
 $50  [N(d1)]  $49  [e0.07  (199/365)]  N(d2)
 ($50  0.6459)  ($49  0.9626  0.5607)
 $32.295  $26.447
 $5.85
The estimated price of $5.85 is greater than the $4 actual price, implying that the
call option is underpriced. A trader believing in the Black-Scholes model would
buy a call. Of course, the Black-Scholes model is fallible. Perhaps the disparity be-
tween the model’s estimate and the market price reflects error in the trader’s esti-
mate of variance.
The previous example stressed the calculations involved in using the Black-Scholes
formula. Is there any intuition behind the formula? Yes, and that intuition follows from the
stock purchase and borrowing strategy in our binomial example. The first line of the Black-
Scholes equation is:
C  S  N(d1)  Eert N(d2)
which is exactly analogous to equation (22.2):
Value of call  Stock price  Delta  Amount borrowed
(22.2)
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
631
10This method is called linear interpolation. It is only one of a number of possible methods of interpolation.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
638
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
that we presented in the binomial example. It turns out that N(d1) is the delta in the Black-
Scholes model. N(d1) is 0.6459 in the previous example. In addition, EertN(d1) is the
amount that an investor must borrow to duplicate a call. In the previous example, this value
is $26.45 ($49  0.9626  0.5607). Thus, the model tells us that we can duplicate the call
of the preceding example by both:
1. Buying 0.6459 share of stock.
2. Borrowing $26.45.
It is no exaggeration to say that the Black-Scholes formula is among the most impor-
tant contributions in finance. It allows anyone to calculate the value of an option given a
few parameters. The attraction of the formula is that four of the parameters are observable:
the current price of stock, S, the exercise price, E, the interest rate, r, and the time to expi-
ration date, t. Only one of the parameters must be estimated: the variance of return, 2.
632
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
I TABLE 22.3 Cumulative Probabilities of the Standard Normal Distribution Function
d
0.00
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.06
0.07
0.08
0.09
0.0
0.0000
0.0040
0.0080
0.0120
0.0160
0.0199
0.0239
0.0279
0.0319
0.0359
0.1
0.0398
0.0438
0.0478
0.0517
0.0557
0.0596
0.0636
0.0675
0.0714
0.0753
0.2
0.0793
0.0832
0.0871
0.0910
0.0948
0.0987
0.1026
0.1064
0.1103
0.1141
0.3
0.1179
0.1217
0.1255
0.1293
0.1331
0.1368
0.1406
0.1443
0.1480
0.1517
0.4
0.1554
0.1591
0.1628
0.1664
0.1700
0.1736
0.1772
0.1808
0.1844
0.1879
0.5
0.1915
0.1950
0.1985
0.2019
0.2054
0.2088
0.2123
0.2157
0.2190
0.2224
0.6
0.2257
0.2291
0.2324
0.2357
0.2389
0.2422
0.2454
0.2486
0.2517
0.2549
0.7
0.2580
0.2611
0.2642
0.2673
0.2704
0.2734
0.2764
0.2794
0.2823
0.2852
0.8
0.2881
0.2910
0.2939
0.2967
0.2995
0.3023
0.3051
0.3078
0.3106
0.3133
0.9
0.3159
0.3186
0.3212
0.3238
0.3264
0.3289
0.3315
0.3340
0.3365
0.3389
1.0
0.3413
0.3438
0.3461
0.3485
0.3508
0.3531
0.3554
0.3577
0.3599
0.3621
1.1
0.3643
0.3665
0.3686
0.3708
0.3729
0.3749
0.3770
0.3790
0.3810
0.3830
1.2
0.3849
0.3869
0.3888
0.3907
0.3925
0.3944
0.3962
0.3980
0.3997
0.4015
1.3
0.4032
0.4049
0.4066
0.4082
0.4099
0.4115
0.4131
0.4147
0.4162
0.4177
1.4
0.4192
0.4207
0.4222
0.4236
0.4251
0.4265
0.4279
0.4292
0.4306
0.4319
1.5
0.4332
0.4345
0.4357
0.4370
0.4382
0.4394
0.4406
0.4418
0.4429
0.4441
1.6
0.4452
0.4463
0.4474
0.4484
0.4495
0.4505
0.4515
0.4525
0.4535
0.4545
1.7
0.4554
0.4564
0.4573
0.4582
0.4591
0.4599
0.4608
0.4616
0.4625
0.4633
1.8
0.4641
0.4649
0.4656
0.4664
0.4671
0.4678
0.4686
0.4693
0.4699
0.4706
1.9
0.4713
0.4719
0.4726
0.4732
0.4738
0.4744
0.4750
0.4756
0.4761
0.4767
2.0
0.4773
0.4778
0.4783
0.4788
0.4793
0.4798
0.4803
0.4808
0.4812
0.4817
2.1
0.4821
0.4826
0.4830
0.4834
0.4838
0.4842
0.4846
0.4850
0.4854
0.4857
2.2
0.4861
0.4866
0.4830
0.4871
0.4875
0.4878
0.4881
0.4884
0.4887
0.4890
2.3
0.4893
0.4896
0.4898
0.4901
0.4904
0.4906
0.4909
0.4911
0.4913
0.4916
2.4
0.4918
0.4920
0.4922
0.4925
0.4927
0.4929
0.4931
0.4932
0.4934
0.4936
2.5
0.4938
0.4940
0.4941
0.4943
0.4945
0.4946
0.4948
0.4949
0.4951
0.4952
2.6
0.4953
0.4955
0.4956
0.4957
0.4959
0.4960
0.4961
0.4962
0.4963
0.4964
2.7
0.4965
0.4966
0.4967
0.4968
0.4969
0.4970
0.4971
0.4972
0.4973
0.4974
2.8
0.4974
0.4975
0.4976
0.4977
0.4977
0.4978
0.4979
0.4979
0.4980
0.4981
2.9
0.4981
0.4982
0.4982
0.4982
0.4984
0.4984
0.4985
0.4985
0.4986
0.4986
3.0
0.4987
0.4987
0.4987
0.4988
0.4988
0.4989
0.4989
0.4989
0.4990
0.4990
N(d) represents areas under the standard normal distribution function. Suppose that d1  0.24. This table implies a cumulative probability of
0.5000  0.0948  0.5948. If d1 is equal to 0.2452, we must estimate the probability by interpolating between N(0.25) and N(0.24).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
639
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
To see how truly attractive this formula is, note what parameters are not needed. First,
the investor’s risk aversion does not affect value. The formula can be used by anyone, re-
gardless of willingness to bear risk. Second, it does not depend on the expected return on
the stock! Investors with different assessments of the stock’s expected return will never-
theless agree on the call price. As in the two-state example, this is because the call depends
on the stock price and that price already balances investors’ divergent views.
• How does the two-state option model work?
• What is the formula for the Black-Scholes option-pricing model?
22.9 STOCKS AND BONDS AS OPTIONS
The previous material in this chapter described, explained, and valued publicly traded op-
tions. This is important material to any finance student because much trading occurs in
these listed options. The study of options has another purpose for the student of corpo-
rate finance.
You may have heard the one-liner about the elderly gentleman who was surprised to
learn that he had been speaking prose all of his life. The same can be said about the cor-
porate finance student and options. Although options were formally defined for the first
time in this chapter, many corporate policies discussed earlier in the text were actually
options in disguise. Though it is beyond the scope of this chapter to recast all of corpo-
rate finance in terms of options, the rest of the chapter considers the implicit options in
three topics:
1. Stocks and bonds as options.
2. Capital-structure decisions as options.
3. Capital-budgeting decisions as options.
We begin by illustrating the implicit options in stocks and bonds through a simple example.
EXAMPLE
The Popov Company has been awarded the concessions at next year’s Olympic
Games in Antarctica. Because the firm’s principals live in Antarctica and because
there is no other concession business in that continent, their enterprise will disband
after the games. The firm has issued debt to help finance this venture. Interest and
principal due on the debt next year will be $800, at which time the debt will be
paid off in full. The firm’s cash flows next year are forecasted as
Popov’s Cash-Flow Schedule
Very
Moderately
Moderately
Successful
Successful
Unsuccessful
Outright
Games
Games
Games
Failure
Cash flow before
$1,000
$850
$700
$550
interest and principal
Interest and principal
800
800
700
550
___________________
_____
_____
_____
_____
Cash flow to
$ 200
$ 50
$
0
$
0
stockholders
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
633
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
640
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
As can be seen, the principals forecasted four equally likely scenarios. If either of
the first two scenarios occurs, the bondholders will be paid in full. The extra cash
flow goes to the stockholders. However, if either of the last two scenarios occurs,
the bondholders will not be paid in full. Instead, they will receive the firm’s entire
cash flow, leaving the stockholders with nothing.
This example is similar to the bankruptcy examples presented in our chapters on cap-
ital structure. Our new insight is that the relationship between the common stock and the
firm can be expressed in terms of options. We consider call options first because the intu-
ition is easier. The put-option scenario is treated next.
The Firm Expressed in Terms of Call Options
The Stockholders
We now show that stock can be viewed as a call option on the firm. To
illustrate this, Figure 22.11 graphs the cash flow to the stockholders as a function of the cash
flow to the firm. The stockholders receive nothing if the firm’s cash flows are less than
$800; here, all of the cash flows go to the bondholders. However, the stockholders earn a
dollar for every dollar that the firm receives above $800. The graph looks exactly like the
call-option graphs that we considered earlier in this chapter.
But what is the underlying asset upon which the stock is a call option? The underlying
asset is the firm itself. That is, we can view the bondholders as owning the firm. However,
the stockholders have a call option on the firm with an exercise price of $800.
If the firm’s cash flow is above $800, the stockholders would choose to exercise this
option. In other words, they would buy the firm from the bondholders for $800. Their net
cash flow is the difference between the firm’s cash flow and their $800 payment. This would
be $200 ($1,000  $800) if the games are very successful and $50 ($850  $800) if the
games are moderately successful.
Should the value of the firm’s cash flows be less than $800, the stockholders would not
choose to exercise their option. Instead, they walk away from the firm, as any call-option
holder would do. The bondholders then receive the firm’s entire cash flow.
634
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
0
800
45°
Cash flow
to firm ($)
Cash flow
to stockholders ($)
I FIGURE 22.11 Cash Flow to Stockholders of Popov Company as a
Function of Cash Flow of Firm
The stockholders can be viewed as having a call option on the
firm. If the cash flows of the firm exceed $800, the stockholders
pay $800 in order to receive the firm. If the cash flows of the firm
are less than $800, the stockholders do not exercise their option.
They walk away from the firm, receiving nothing.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
641
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
This view of the firm is a novel one, and students are frequently bothered by it on first
exposure. However, we encourage students to keep looking at the firm in this way until the
view becomes second nature to them.
The Bondholders
What about the bondholders? Our earlier cash flow schedule showed
that they would get the entire cash flow of the firm if the firm generates less cash than $800.
Should the firm earn more than $800, the bondholders would receive only $800. That is,
they are entitled only to interest and principal. This schedule is graphed in Figure 22.12.
In keeping with our view that the stockholders have a call option on the firm, what
does the bondholders’ position consist of? The bondholders’ position can be described by
two claims:
1. They own the firm.
2. They have written a call against the firm with an exercise price of $800.
As we mentioned before, the stockholders walk away from the firm if cash flows are
less than $800. Thus, the bondholders retain ownership in this case. However, if the cash
flows are greater than $800, the stockholders exercise their option. They call the stock away
from the bondholders for $800.
The Firm Expressed in Terms of Put Options
The preceding analysis expresses the positions of the stockholders and the bondholders in
terms of call options. We can now express the situation in terms of put options.
The Stockholders
The stockholders’ position can be expressed by three claims:
1. They own the firm.
2. They owe $800 in interest and principal to the bondholders.
If the debt were risk-free, these two claims would fully describe the stockholders’situation.
However, because of the possibility of default, we have a third claim as well.
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
635
800
Cash flow
to bondholders ($)
Cash flow
to firm ($)
0
800
I FIGURE 22.12 Cash Flow to Bondholders as a Function of Cash
Flow of Firm
The bondholders can be viewed as owning the firm but writing a
call option to the stockholders as well. If the cash flows of the
firm exceed $800, the call is exercised against the bondholders.
The bondholders give up the firm and receive $800. If the cash
flows are less than $800, the call expires. The bondholders receive
the cash flows of the firm in this case.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
642
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
3. The stockholders own a put option on the firm with an exercise price of $800. The group
of bondholders is the seller of the put.
Now consider two possibilities.
Cash Flow Is Less than $800
Because the put has an exercise price of $800, the put is in
the money. The stockholders “put,” that is, sell, the firm to the bondholders. Normally, the
holder of a put receives the exercise price when the asset is sold. However, the stockhold-
ers already owe $800 to the bondholders. Thus, the debt of $800 is simply canceled—and
no money changes hands—when the stock is delivered to the bondholders. Because the
stockholders give up the stock in exchange for extinguishing the debt, the stockholders end
up with nothing if the cash flow is below $800.
Cash Flow Is Greater than $800
Because the put is out of the money here, the stock-
holders do not exercise. Thus, the stockholders retain ownership of the firm but pay $800
to the bondholders as interest and principal.
The Bondholders
The bondholders’ position can be described by two claims:
1. The bondholders are owed $800.
2. They have sold a put option on the firm to the stockholders with an exercise price 
of $800.
Cash Flow Is Less than $800
As mentioned before, the stockholders will exercise the put
in this case. This means that the bondholders are obligated to pay $800 for the firm. Be-
cause they are owed $800, the two obligations offset each other. Thus, the bondholders sim-
ply end up with the firm in this case.
Cash Flow Is Greater than $800
Here, the stockholders do not exercise the put. Thus, the
bondholders merely receive the $800 that is due them.
Expressing the bondholders’ position in this way is illuminating. With a riskless de-
fault-free bond, the bondholders are owed $800. Thus, we can express the risky bond in
terms of a riskless bond and a put:
Value of

Value of

Value of
risky bond
default-free bond
put option
That is, the value of the risky bond is the value of the default-free bond less the value of the
stockholders’ option to sell the company for $800.
A Resolution of the Two Views
We have argued above that the positions of the stockholders and the bondholders can be
viewed either in terms of calls or in terms of puts. These two viewpoints are summarized in
Table 22.4.
We have found from past experience that it is generally harder for students to think of
the firm in terms of puts than in terms of calls. Thus, it would be helpful if there were a way
to show that the two viewpoints are equivalent. Fortunately there is put-call parity. In an
earlier section we presented the put-call parity relationship as equation (22.1), which we
now repeat:
Price of underlying stock  Price of put  Price of call  Present value of exercise price (22.1)
Using the results of this section, equation (22.1) can be rewritten as:
636
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
643
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Value of call

Value of
 Value of put

Value of
(22.3)
on firm
firm
on firm
default-free bond
Stockholders’
Stockholders’ position
position in terms
in terms of put options
of call options
Going from equation (22.1) to equation (22.3) involves a few steps. First, we treat the firm,
not the stock, as the underlying asset in this section. (In keeping with common convention,
we refer to the value of the firm and the price of the stock.) Second, the exercise price is
now $800, the principal and interest on the firm’s debt. Taking the present value of this
amount at the riskless rate yields the value of a default-free bond. Third, the order of the
terms in equation (22.1) is rearranged in equation (22.3).
Note that the left-hand side of equation (22.3) is the stockholders’ position in terms of
call options, as shown in Table 22.4. The right-hand side of equation (22.3) is the stock-
holders’ position in terms of put options, as shown in the table. Thus, put-call parity shows
that viewing the stockholders’ position in terms of call options is equivalent to viewing the
stockholders’ position in terms of put options.
Now, let’s rearrange terms in equation (22.3) to yield
Value of
 Value of call 
Value of
 Value of put
(22.4)
firm
on firm
default-free bond
on firm
Bondholders’ position in
Bondholders’ position in
terms of call options
terms of put options
The left-hand side of equation (22.4) is the bondholders’ position in terms of call op-
tions, as shown in Table 22.4. The right-hand side of the equation is the bondholders’ posi-
tion in terms of put options, as shown in Table 22.4. Thus, put-call parity shows that view-
ing the bondholders’ position in terms of call options is equivalent to viewing the
bondholders’ position in terms of put options.
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
637
I TABLE 22.4 Positions of Stockholders and Bondholders in Popov
Company in Terms of Calls and Puts
Stockholders
Bondholders
Positions viewed in terms of call options
1. Stockholders own a call on the firm
1. Bondholders own the firm.
with exercise price of $800.
2. Bondholders have sold a call on the firm to
the stockholders.
Positions viewed in terms of put options
1. Stockholders own the firm.
1. Bondholders are owed $800 in interest 
2. Stockholders owe $800 in interest and
and principal.
principal to bondholders.
2. Bondholders have sold a put on the firm 
3. Stockholders own a put option on the
to the stockholders.
firm with exercise price of $800.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
644
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
A Note on Loan Guarantees
In the Popov example given earlier, the bondholders bore the risk of default. Of course,
bondholders generally ask for an interest rate that is enough to compensate them for
bearing risk. When firms experience financial distress, they can no longer attract new
debt at moderate interest rates. Thus, firms experiencing distress have frequently sought
loan guarantees from the government. Our framework can be used to understand these
guarantees.
If the firm defaults on a guaranteed loan, the government must make up the difference.
In other words, a government guarantee converts a risky bond into a riskless bond. What is
the value of this guarantee?
Recall that, with option pricing,
Value of

Value of

Value of
default-free bond
risky bond
put option
This equation shows that the government is assuming an obligation that has a cost equal to
the value of a put option.
This analysis differs from that of either politicians or company spokespeople. They
generally say that the guarantee will cost the taxpayer nothing because the guarantee en-
ables the firm to attract debt, thereby staying solvent. However, it should be pointed out that,
although solvency may be a strong possibility, it is never a certainty. Thus, at the time the
guarantee is made, the government’s obligation has a cost in terms of present value. To say
that a government guarantee costs the government nothing is like saying a put on the stock
of Microsoft has no value because the stock is likely to rise in price.
Actually, the government has had good fortune with loan guarantees. Its two biggest
guarantees were to the Lockheed Corporation in 1971 and the Chrysler Corporation in
1980. Both firms nearly ran out of cash and defaulted on loans. In both cases the U.S. gov-
ernment came to the rescue by agreeing to guarantee new loans. Under the guarantees, if
Lockheed and Chrysler had defaulted on new loans, the lenders could have obtained the full
value of their claims from the U.S. government. From the lender’s point of view, the loans
became as risk-free as Treasury bonds. These guarantees enabled Lockheed and Chrysler
to borrow large amounts of cash and to get through a difficult time. As it turned out, neither
firm defaulted.
Who benefits from a typical loan guarantee?
1. If existing risky bonds are guaranteed, all gains accrue to the existing bondholders.
The stockholders gain nothing because the limited liability of corporations absolves the
stockholders of any obligation in bankruptcy.
2. If new debt is being issued and guaranteed, the new debtholders do not gain. Rather,
in a competitive market, they must accept a low interest rate because of the debt’s low risk.
The stockholders gain here because they are able to issue debt at a low interest rate. In ad-
dition, some of the gains accrue to the old bondholders because the firm’s value is greater
than would otherwise be true. Therefore, if shareholders want all the gains from loan guar-
antees, they should renegotiate or retire existing bonds before the guarantee is in place. This
happened in the Chrysler case.
• How can the value of the firm be expressed in terms of call options?
• How can the value of the firm be expressed in terms of put options?
• How does put-call parity relate these two expressions?
638
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
645
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
22.10 CAPITAL-STRUCTURE POLICY AND OPTIONS
Recall our chapters on capital structure where we showed how managers, acting on behalf
of the stockholders, can take advantage of bondholders. A number of these strategies can
be explained in terms of options. As an illustration, this section examines one such strategy,
the choice between a high-risk project and a low-risk project.
Selecting High-Risk Projects
Imagine a levered firm considering two mutually exclusive projects, a low-risk one and a
high-risk one. There are two equally likely outcomes, recession and boom. The firm is in
such dire straits that, should a recession hit, it will come near to bankruptcy if the low-risk
project is selected and actually fall into bankruptcy if the high-risk project is selected. The
cash flows for the firm if the low-risk project is undertaken can be described as
Low-Risk Project
Value
Probability
of Firm

Stock

Bonds
Recession
0.5
$400

0

$400
Boom
0.5
$800

$400

$400
If recession occurs, the value of the firm will be $400, and if boom occurs, the value of the
firm will be $800. The expected value of the firm is $600 (0.5  $400  0.5  $800). The
firm has promised to pay the bondholders $400. Shareholders will obtain the difference
between the total payoff and the amount paid to the bondholders. The bondholders have
the prior claim on the payoffs, and the shareholders have the residual claim.
Now suppose that another, riskier project can be substituted for the low-risk project.
The payoffs and probabilities are as follows:
High-Risk Project
Value
Probability
of Firm

Stock

Bonds
Recession
0.5
$ 200

0

$200
Boom
0.5
$1,000

$600

$400
The expected value of the firm is $600 (0.5  $200  0.5  $1,000), which is identical to
the value of the firm with the low-risk project. However, note that the expected value of the
stock is $300 (0.5  0  0.5  $600) with the high-risk project, but only $200 (0.5  0 
0.5  $400) with the low-risk project. Given the firm’s present levered state, stockholders
will select the high-risk project.
The stockholders benefit at the expense of the bondholders when the high-risk project
is accepted. The explanation is quite clear: The bondholders suffer dollar for dollar when
the firm’s value falls short of the $400 bond obligation. However, the bondholders’ pay-
ments are capped at $400 when the firm does well.
This can be explained in terms of call options. We argued earlier in this chapter that the
value of a call rises with an increase in the volatility of the underlying asset. Because the stock
is a call option on the firm, a rise in the volatility of the firm increases the value of the stock.
In our example, the value of the stock is higher if the high-risk project is accepted.
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
639

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
646
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Table 22.4 showed that the value of a risky bond can be viewed as the difference be-
tween the value of the firm and the value of a call on the firm. Because a call’s value
rises with the risk of the underlying asset, the value of the bond should decline if the
firm increases its risk. In our example, the bondholders are hurt when the high-risk proj-
ect is accepted.
22.11 MERGERS AND OPTIONS
Mergers are structured either as cash-for-stock transactions or as stock-for-stock trans-
actions. The selling stockholders receive cash from the buyer in the first type of trans-
action and receive stock in the buying company in the second type of transaction. In the
first half of 2000, General Mills (GM) was attempting to acquire the Pillsbury division
of Diageo PLC. GM wanted a stock-for-stock transaction and initially offered Diageo
141,000,000 shares of GM’s stock. Given that GM was trading at that time at $42.55 per
share, the stockholders of Diageo would receive consideration of about $6 billion
($42.55  141 million). Although this amount was more than satisfactory to Diageo’s
management, they were upset with the risk inherent in stock-for-stock transactions. That
is, General Mills’ shares might be overpriced at $42.55, implying the possibility of a
price decline at a later date.
To allay these fears, GM decided to “insure” Diageo’s stockholders with a contin-
gent value rights (CVR) plan of up to $642 million or $4.55 ($642 million/141 million)
per share. Under this plan, each of the 141 million GM shares issued to Diageo’s stock-
holders would receive in cash the difference between $42.55 and the price of GM’s stock
one year after the deal’s closing date, up to a maximum of $4.55. For example, if GM’s
stock traded at $40 one year after closing, each newly issued share of GM would receive
$2.55 ($42.55  $40) in cash. Thus, because the cash payment of $2.55 goes with each
newly issued share worth $40, the total package is still worth $42.55. However, because
the maximum payment is $4.55, no additional insurance is provided for stock price drops
below $38 ($42.55  $4.55). For example, if the stock falls to $36, the total package is
worth only $40.55 ($36  $4.55). In Figure 22.13 the cash payment per share of newly
issued GM stock is graphed as a function of GM’s stock price one year after the closing
date. The total package (price of one share of GM’s stock plus the cash payment) is shown
in Figure 22.14.
The contingent value rights plan can be viewed in terms of puts. That is, the CVR
plan implies that each newly issued share of GM’s stock receives a put on GM’s stock
with an exercise price of $42.55 while selling a put on GM with an exercise price of $38.
This idea is illustrated in Figure 22.15. If GM’s stock price ends up below $42.55, the
cash payoff from each put with an exercise price of $42.55 is equal to the difference be-
tween $42.55 and the ending price of GM. However, should the price fall below $38, the
put with an exercise price of $38 will also be in the money. Each newly issued share of
GM’s stock receives a put with an exercise price of $42.55 and writes a put with an ex-
ercise price of $38, so each share receives cash of $4.55 ($42.55  $38) should GM’s
stock price drop below $38.
Diageo’s management liked the contingent value rights plan enough to accept the
merger with the CVR agreement attached. This example shows that creative financing tech-
niques, such as the use of puts in this case, can be used to accommodate a buyer who would
otherwise be reluctant.
640
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
647
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
641
$38
$42.55
Cash payment
to each newly
issued share of
General Mills
stock
Price of General Mills
stock one year after
closing
Each newly issued share of GM stock receives a cash payment equal to the
difference between $42.55 and the price of GM stock one year after closing, up to a
maximum of $4.55. For example:
Price one year after closing
$42.55 or above
$41
$38 or below
Cash payment per share
0
$1.55 = $42.55 – $41
$4.55 = $42.55 – $38
0
$4.55
I FIGURE 22.13 Cash Payment to Each Newly Issued Share of GM Stock in
Acquisition of Pillsbury Division of Diageo PLC
$38
Price of GM stock one year after closing
$42.55
Cash payment
0
0
$4.55
$42.55
$38
Value of share
Value of share
plus cash payment
I FIGURE 22.14 Total Value of a Newly Issued Share of GM Stock,
Including the Cash Payment

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
648
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
22.12 INVESTMENT IN REAL PROJECTS AND OPTIONS
Let us quickly review the material on capital budgeting presented earlier in the text. We first
considered projects where forecasts for future cash flows were made at date 0. The expected
cash flow in each future period was discounted at an appropriate risky rate, yielding an NPV
calculation. For independent projects, a positive NPV meant acceptance and a negative
NPV meant rejection.
This approach treated risk through the discount rate. We later considered decision-tree
analysis, an approach that handles risk in a more sophisticated way. We pointed out that the
firm will make investment and operating decisions on a project over its entire life. We value
a project today, assuming that future decisions will be optimal. However, we do not yet
know what these decisions will be, because much information remains to be discovered.
The firm’s ability to delay its investment and operating decisions until the release of infor-
mation is an option. We now illustrate this option through an example.
642
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
$38
Price of GM stock one year after closing
Combined payoff from buying a put with K = $42.55 and selling a put with K = $38 is
identical to payoff from contingent value rights plan
$42.55
Payoff from writing
a put with K = $38
Combined
payoff
Payoffs
Payoff from buying a put with K = $42.55
0
$4.55
I FIGURE 22.15 Payoffs to Implied Puts in General Mills’Acquisition
of Pillsbury

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
649
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
Exoff Oil Corporation is considering the purchase of an oil field in a remote part of
Alaska. The seller has listed the property for $10,000 and is eager to sell immedi-
ately. Initial drilling costs are $500,000. The firm anticipates that 10,000 barrels of
oil can be extracted each year for many decades. Because the termination date is so
far in the future and so hard to estimate, the firm views the cash flow stream from
the oil as a perpetuity. With oil prices at $20 per barrel and extraction costs at $16
a barrel, the firm anticipates a net margin of $4 per barrel. Because oil prices are
expected to rise at the inflation rate, the firm assumes that its cash flow per barrel
will always be $4 in real terms. The appropriate real discount rate is 10 percent. The
firm has enough tax credits from bad years in the past that it will not need to pay
taxes on any profits from the oil field. Should Exoff buy the property?
The NPV of the oil field to Exoff is
According to this analysis, Exoff should not purchase the land.
Though this approach uses the standard capital-budgeting techniques of this and
other textbooks, it is actually inappropriate for this situation. To see this, consider the
analysis of Kirtley Thornton, a consultant to Exoff. He agrees that the price of oil is ex-
pected to rise at the rate of inflation. However, he points out that the next year is quite
perilous for oil prices. On the one hand, OPEC is considering a long-term agreement
that would raise oil prices to $35 per barrel in real terms for many years in the future.
On the other hand, National Motors recently indicated that cars using a mixture of sand
and water for fuel are currently being tested. Thornton argues that oil will be priced at
$5 in real terms for many years, should this development prove successful. Full infor-
mation on both these developments will be released in exactly one year.
Should oil prices rise to $35 a barrel, the NPV of the project would be
However, should oil prices fall to $5 a barrel, the NPV of the oil field will be even
more negative than it is today.
Mr. Thornton makes two recommendations to Exoff’s board. He argues that
1. The land should be purchased.
2. The drilling decision should be delayed until information on both OPEC’s new
agreement and National Motors’ new automobile is released.
Kirtley explains his recommendations to the board by first assuming that the land
has already been purchased. He argues that, under this assumption, the drilling
decision should be delayed. Second, he investigates his assumption that the land
should have been purchased in the first place. This approach of examining the
second decision (whether to drill) after assuming that the first decision (to buy the
land) had been made was also used in our earlier presentation on decision trees.
Let us now work through Mr. Thornton’s analysis.
Assume the land has already been purchased. If the land has already been pur-
chased, should drilling begin immediately? If drilling begins immediately, the
NPV is $110,000. If the drilling decision is delayed until new information is re-
leased in a year, the optimal choice can be made at that time. If oil prices drop to
$1,390,000   $10,000  $500,000  $35  $16  10,000
0.10
 $110,000   $10,000  $500,000  $4  10,000
0.10
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
643

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
650
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
$5 a barrel, Exoff should not drill. Instead, the firm should walk away from the
project, losing nothing beyond its $10,000 purchase price for the land. If oil prices
rise to $35, drilling should begin.
Mr. Thornton points out that, by delaying, the firm will only invest the
$500,000 of drilling costs if oil prices rise. Thus, by delaying, the firm saves
$500,000 in the case where oil prices drop. Kirtley concludes that, once the land
is purchased, the drilling decision should be delayed.11
Should the land have been purchased in the first place? We now know that if
the land had been purchased, it is optimal to defer the drilling decision until the re-
lease of information. Given that we know this optimal decision concerning
drilling, should the land be purchased in the first place? Without knowing the ex-
act probability that oil prices will rise, Mr. Thornton is nevertheless confident that
the land should be purchased. The NPV of the project at $35 oil prices is
$1,390,000 whereas the cost of the land is only $10,000. Kirtley believes that an
oil price rise is possible, though by no means probable. Even so, he argues that the
high potential return is clearly worth the risk.
This example presents an approach that is similar to our decision-tree analysis of the
Solar Equipment Company in a previous chapter. Our purpose in this section is to discuss
this type of decision in an option framework. When Exoff purchases the land, it is actually
purchasing a call option. That is, once the land has been purchased, the firm has an option
to buy an active oil field at an exercise price of $500,000. As it turns out, one should gen-
erally not exercise a call option immediately.12 In this case, the firm should delay exercise
until relevant information concerning future oil prices is released.
This section points out a serious deficiency in classical capital budgeting; net-present-
value calculations typically ignore the flexibility that real-world firms have. In our exam-
ple, the standard techniques generated a negative NPV for the land purchase. Yet, by al-
lowing the firm the option to change its investment policy according to new information,
the land purchase can easily be justified.
We entreat the reader to look for hidden options in projects. Because options are ben-
eficial, managers are shortchanging their firm’s projects if capital-budgeting calculations
ignore flexibility.
• Why are the hidden options in projects valuable?
644
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
11Actually, there are three separate effects here. First, the firm avoids drilling costs in the case of low oil prices
by delaying the decision. This is the effect discussed by Mr. Thornton. Second, the present value of the
$500,000 payment is less when the decision is delayed, even if drilling eventually takes place. Third, the firm
loses one year of cash inflows through delay.
The first two arguments support delaying the decision. The third argument supports immediate drilling. In
this example, the first argument greatly outweighs the other two arguments. Thus, Mr. Thornton avoided the
second and third arguments in his presentation.
12Actually, it can be shown that a call option that pays no dividend should never be exercised before expiration.
However, for a dividend-paying stock, it may be optimal to exercise prior to the ex-dividend date. The analogy
applies to our example of an option in real assets.
The firm would receive cash flows from oil earlier if drilling begins immediately. This is equivalent to the
benefit from exercising a call on a stock prematurely in order to capture the dividend. However, in our example,
this dividend effect is far outweighed by the benefits from waiting.
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
651
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
22.13 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
This chapter serves as an introduction to options.
1. The most familiar options are puts and calls. These options give the holder the right to sell or
buy shares of common stock at a given exercise price. American options can be exercised any
time up to and including the expiration date. European options can be exercised only on the
expiration date.
2. We showed that a strategy of buying a stock and buying a put is equivalent to a strategy of
buying a call and buying a zero-coupon bond. From this, the put-call–parity relationship was
established:
Value of

Value of

Value of

Present value of 
stock
put
call
exercise price
3. The value of an option depends on five factors:
• The price of the underlying asset.
• The exercise price.
• The expiration date.
• The variability of the underlying asset.
• The interest rate on risk-free bonds.
The Black-Scholes model can determine the intrinsic price of an option from these five
factors.
4. Much of corporate financial theory can be presented in terms of options. In this chapter we
pointed out that
a. Common stock can be represented as a call option on the firm.
b. Stockholders enhance the value of their call by increasing the risk of their firm.
c. Real projects have hidden options that enhance value.
KEY TERMS
American options
612
Option
612
Call option
613
Put-call parity
619
Cumulative probability
630
Put option
614
European options
612
Standardized normal distribution
630
Exercising the option
612
Striking or exercise price
612
Expiration date
612
SUGGESTED READINGS
The path-breaking article on options is:
Black, Fischer, and Myron Scholes. “The Pricing of Options and Corporate Liabilities.” Journal
of Political Economy 81 (May–June 1973).
For a detailed discussion of options, read
Hull, John C. Options, Futures, and Other Derivatives, 4th Ed. Upper Saddle River, N.J.:
Prentice Hall, 1999.
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
645

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
652
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Options: General
22.1 Define the following terms associated with options:
a. Option
b. Exercise
c. Strike price
d. Expiration date
e. Call option
f. Put option
22.2 What is the difference between American options and European options?
22.3 Mr. Goodie holds American put options on Delta Triangle stock. The exercise price of the
put is $40 and Delta stock is selling for $35 per share. If the put sells for $41⁄2, what is the
best strategy for Mr. Goodie?
22.4 A call option on Futura Corporation stock currently trades for $4. The expiration date is
February 18 of next year. The exercise price of the option is $45.
a. If this is an American option, on what dates can the option be exercised?
b. If this is a European option, on what dates can the option be exercised?
c. Suppose the current price of Futura Corporation stock is $35. Is this option
worthless?
22.5 Mrs. Gerard sold 10 IBM put contracts and bought 5 IBM call contracts with the
proceeds of the sales. Both options have the same exercise price of $80 and the same
expiration date. Draw the payoff diagram of her zero-investment portfolio.
22.6 The strike price of a call option on Simpsons Entertainment common stock is $50.
a. What is the payoff at expiration of this call if, on the expiration date, Simpsons stock
sells for $55?
b. What is the payoff at expiration of this call if, on the expiration date, Simpsons stock
sells for $45?
c. Draw the payoff diagram for this option.
22.7 A put is trading on Simpsons Entertainment stock. It has a strike price of $50.
a. What is the payoff at expiration of this put if, on the expiration date, Simpsons stock
sells for $55?
b. What is the payoff at expiration of this put if, on the expiration date, Simpsons stock
sells for $45?
c. Draw the payoff diagram for this option.
22.8 Suppose you bought two Xerox call contracts and one Xerox put contract, both of which
will expire in three months. The exercise price of the call is $70 and the exercise price of
the put is $75. Each option is sold as a 100-share contract.
a. What is your payoff at expiration of your investment if Xerox stock sells for $65 on
the expiration date? What if it sells for $72? What if it sells for $80?
b. Draw the payoff diagram for the investment.
22.9 You hold a six-month European call-option contract on Sertile stock. The exercise price
of the call is $100 per share. The option will expire in moments. Assume there are no
transactions costs or taxes associated with this contract.
a. What is your profit on this contract if the stock is selling for $130?
b. If Sertile stock is selling for $90, what will you do?
22.10 General Furnishings, Inc., has both call and put options traded on the Chicago Board
Options Exchange. Both options have the same exercise price of $40 and the same
expiration date. The options will expire in one year. The call is currently selling for 
$8 per share and the put is selling for $2 per share. The interest rate is 10 percent. What
should the stock price of General Furnishings be in order to prevent arbitrage
opportunities?
646
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
653
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
22.11 Piersol Paper Mill’s common stock currently sells for $145. Both puts and calls on
Piersol Paper are being traded. These options all expire eight months from today, and
they have a strike price of $160. Eight months from today, Piersol Paper common stock
will sell for $172 with a probability of 0.5. It will sell for $138 with a probability of
0.5. You own a put on Piersol Paper. Now, you are becoming nervous about the risk to
which you are exposed.
a. What other transactions should you make to eliminate this risk?
b. What is the expected payoff at expiration of the strategy you developed in (a)?
22.12 Suppose you observe the following market prices:
American call (Strike  $50)
$8
Stock
$60
a. What should you do?
b. What is your profit or loss?
c. What do opportunities such as this imply about the lower bound on the price of
American calls?
d. What is the upper bound on the price of American calls? Explain.
22.13 List the factors that determine the value of an American call option. State how a change
in each factor alters the option’s value.
22.14 List the factors that determine the value of an American put option. State how a change in
each factor alters the option’s value.
22.15 a. If the risk of a stock increases, what is likely to happen to the prices of call options on
the stock? Why?
b. If the risk of a stock increases, what is likely to happen to the price of put options on
the stock? Why?
The Two-State Option Model
22.16 You bought a 100-share call contract three weeks ago. The expiration date of the calls is
five weeks from today. On that date, the price of the underlying stock will be either $120
or $95. The two states are equally likely to occur. Currently, the stock sells for $96; its
strike price is $112. You are able to purchase 32 shares of stock. You are able to borrow
money at 10 percent per annum.
What is the value of your call contract?
22.17 Wellington Company stock is currently selling for $30 per share. It is expected that the
stock price will be either $25 or $35 in six months. Treasury bills that will mature in six
months yield 5 percent. What is the price of Wellington put option per share that has an
exercise price of $32? Wellington put is a European option.
22.18 Assume only two states will exist one year from today when a call on Delta
Transportation, Inc., stock expires. The price of Delta stock will be either $60 or $40
on that date. Today, Delta stock trades for $55. The strike price of the call is $50. The
rate at which you can borrow is 9 percent. How much are you willing to pay for a
contract of this call?
The Black-Scholes Option Model
22.19 Use the Black-Scholes model to price a call with the following characteristics:
Stock price  $62
Strike price  $70
Time to expiration  4 weeks
Stock-price variance  0.35
Risk-free interest rate  0.05
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
647

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
654
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
22.20 Use the Black-Scholes model to price a call with the following characteristics:
Stock price  $52
Strike price  $48
Time to expiration  120 days
Stock-price variance  0.04
Risk-free interest rate  0.05
22.21 a. Use the Black-Scholes model to price a call with the following characteristics:
Stock price  $45
Strike price  $52
Time to expiration  6 months
Stock-price variance  0.40
Risk-free interest rate  0.065
b. What does put-call parity imply the price of the corresponding put will be?
22.22 a. Use the Black-Scholes model to price a call with the following characteristics:
Stock price  $70
Strike price  $90
Time to expiration  6 months
Stock-price variance  0.25
Risk-free interest rate  0.06
b. What does put-call parity imply the price of the corresponding put will be?
22.23 Consider a call option on Computer Plus Company stock. The option will expire one
year from today and the exercise price is $35. The risk-free rate is 7 percent. Computer
Plus stock is selling for $37 per share and your estimate of variance of the return on the
stock is 0.004.
a. Use the Black-Scholes model to price the call.
b. You have found out that the estimate of the variance should be revised to 0.0064.
What should the new price of the call be?
c. The stock price dropped to $35 after the announcement that the company is about to
shut down three factories in California. Using the result in part (b), what should the
new price of the call be?
22.24 You have been asked by a client to determine the maximum price he should be willing to
pay to purchase a Kingsley call. The options have an exercise price of $25, and they
expire in 120 days. The current price of Kingsley stock is $27, the annual risk-free rate is
7 percent, and the estimated variance of the stock is 0.0576. No dividends are expected to
be declared over the next six months. What is the maximum price your client should pay?
648
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
22. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Basic Concepts
655
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Application of Options to Corporate Finance
22.25 It is said that the equity in a levered firm is like a call option on the underlying assets.
Explain what is meant by this statement.
22.26 Global Real Estate Partners, LTD., is undertaking a new project. If the project is
successful, the value of the firm in a year will be $650 million, but if it turns out to be a
failure, the firm will be worth only $250 million. The current value of the firm is $400
million. The firm has outstanding bonds due in a year with a face value of $300 million.
The T-bill rate is 7 percent. What is the value of the equity? What is the value of the debt?
22.27 Suppose Global Real Estate Partners, LTD., in the above problem decided to undertake a
riskier project: The value of the firm in a year will be either $800 million or $100 million,
depending on the success of the project. What is the value of the equity? What is the
value of the debt? Which project is preferred by bondholders?
Chapter 22
Options and Corporate Finance: Basic Concepts
649

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
656
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Options and Corporate
Finance: Extensions 
and Applications
CHAPTER 23
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
T
his chapter extends the analysis of options contained in Chapter 22. We describe four
different types of options found in common corporate finance decisions.
• Executive stock options and compensation.
• The embedded option in a start-up company.
• The option in simple business contracts.
• The option to shut down and reopen a project.
Option features are pervasive in corporate finance decisions. They are involved in decisions
of whether to build, expand, or close a factory, to buy productive assets like trucks or ma-
chines, to drill for oil or mine for gold, or to build a building. Sometimes they are involved
in decisions about how to pay managers and other employees. In this chapter we do not ar-
gue that the NPV approach should be completely jettisoned. In fact, many decisions have
few embedded options and, in these cases, optionality can be ignored. However, in many
cases, options are an important aspect of the decision and must be separately valued. In
practice, there is a decision continuum. At one end of the continuum are decisions with lit-
tle optionality and at the other are decisions with significant optionality.
In the previous chapter, we presented a few examples of options in corporate finance.
We saw that stock is a call option on the firm. We showed that the value of this option could
be increased by selecting high-risk rather than low-risk projects. We discussed the embed-
ded option in oil exploration.
However, although the previous chapter presented these options, we made no attempt to
value them. In this chapter, we will value four embedded options. The first two are handled with
the Black-Scholes model. We use the binomial model to value the last two options. Although the
Black-Scholes model is more well known, the binomial model is probably used more frequently
in the real world. The Black-Scholes model works well on only a narrow set of problems. The
flexibility of the binomial model allows it to be applied to a wider range of situations. However,
binomial approaches often use complex numerical analyses involving large amounts of com-
puter time. In this regard, binomial approaches are less elegant than the Black-Scholes approach.
23.1 EXECUTIVE STOCK OPTIONS
Why Options?
Executive compensation is usually made up of base salary plus some or all of the follow-
ing elements:
1. Long-term compensation

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
657
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
2. Annual bonuses
3. Retirement contributions
4. Options
The final component of compensation, options, is by far the biggest part of total com-
pensation for many top executives. Table 23.1 lists the 15 CEOs who received the largest
stock option grants during 1999. The rank is in terms of the face value of the options
granted. This is the number of options times the current stock price.
Knowing the face value of an option does not automatically allow us to determine the
market value of the option. We also need to know the exercise price before valuing the op-
tion according to either the Black-Scholes model or the binomial model. However, the ex-
ercise price is generally set equal to the market price of the stock on the date the executive
receives the options. In the next section, we value options under the assumption that the ex-
ercise price is equal to the market price.
Options in the stock of the company are increasingly being granted to executives as an
alternative to increases in base pay. Some of the reasons given for using options are:
1. Options make executives share the same interests as the stockholders. By aligning their
interests, it is argued that executives will make better decisions for the benefit of the
stockholders.
2. Using options allows the company to lower the executive’s base pay. This removes pres-
sures on morale caused by great disparities between the salaries of executives and those
of other employees.
3. Options put an executive’s pay at risk, rather than guaranteeing it independent of the per-
formance of the firm.
Chapter 23
Options and Corporate Finance: Extensions and Applications
651
I TABLE 23.1 1999  Top 15 Option Grants (a)
Number of
Face Value of
Options Granted
Stock 
Options Granted
Company
CEO
(in thousands) (b)
Price
(in thousands) (c)
Citigroup Inc.
Sanford I. Weill
6,868.4
$51.15
$351,318
American Express Company
Harvey Golub
1,089.2
$123.12
$134,102
Cisco Systems, Inc.
John T. Chambers
2,500.0
$52.84
$132,100
Bank of America Corporation
Hugh L. McColl, Jr.
1,400.0
$74.50
$104,300
Honeywell Inc.
Michael R. Bosignore
1,781.2
$58.21
$103,683
ALCOA Inc.
Paul O’Neill
1,928.6
$49.96
$96,352
American General Corporation
Robert M. Devlin
1,350.0
$68.06
$91,881
Sprint Corporation
William T. Esrey
2,473.4
$34.91
$86,346
UnitedHealth Group Incorporated
William W. McGuire, M.D.
2,075.0
$40.93
$84,929
WorldCom, Inc.
Bernard J. Ebbers
1,800.0
$46.58
$83,844
General Electric Company
John F. Welch, Jr.
625.0
$119.19
$74,493
U.S. Bancorp
John Grundhofer
1,919.3
$36.73
$70,495
Hewlett-Packard Company
Carleton S. Fiorina
600.0
$113.03
$67,818
McKesson HBOC, Inc.
John H. Hammergree
2,300.0
$28.60
$65,780
Conseco, Inc.
Stephen C. Hibert
2,047.4
$30.81
$63,080
Source: Pearl Meyer & Partners.
(a) Based on the 200 largest U.S. industrial and service corporations. Companies in bold awarded “mega options” to the same CEO in fiscal
year 1998 as well as in fiscal year 1999.
(b) Stock option award includes reload/restoration options.
(c) Face value of options granted is the number of options times the stock price.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
658
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
4. Options are a tax-efficient way to pay employees. Under current tax law, if an executive
is given options to purchase company stock and the options are “at the money,” they are
not considered part of taxable income. The options are taxed only when and if they are
eventually exercised.
EXAMPLE
The granting of stock options is not restricted to the highest ranking executives.
Starbucks, the coffee chain that started in Seattle, has pushed stock options down
to the lowest level employees. To quote its founder, Howard Schultz, “Even though
we were a private company, we would grant stock options to every employee com-
panywide, from the top managers to the baristas, in proportion to their level of base
pay. They could then, through their efforts, help make Starbucks more successful
every year, and if Starbucks someday went public, their options could eventually
be worth a good sum of money.”
Valuing Executive Compensation
We now attempt to value the options granted to executives. Not surprisingly, the complex-
ity of the total compensation package often makes this a very difficult task. The actual eco-
nomic value of the options depends on other factors such as the volatility of the underlying
stock and the exact terms of the option grant.
Using Table 23.1, we will attempt to estimate the economic value of the options held
by the executives listed. To do so we will employ the Black-Scholes option pricing for-
mula from Chapter 22. Of course, we are missing many features of the particular plans
and the best we can hope for is a rough estimate. Simple matters such as requiring the ex-
ecutive to hold the option for a fixed period, the freeze-out period, before exercising, can
significantly diminish the value of a standard option. Equally important, the Black-
Scholes formula has to be modified if the stock pays dividends. Intuitively, a call option
on a dividend-paying stock is worth less than a call on a stock that pays no dividends,
since, all other things being equal, the dividends will lower the stock price. Nevertheless,
let us see what we can do.
We will assume that all of the options are “at the money,” so that their exercise prices
are the current stock values. The total exercise prices are thus equal to the reported face value.
We will take the risk-free interest rate as 7 percent and assume that the options all have a ma-
turity of five years. Finally, we will ignore the dilution from exercising them as warrants and
value them as call options. The last required input, the volatility or standard deviation of the
stock, , was estimated from the historical returns on each of the stocks. Table 23.2 lists the
volatilities for each stock and the estimated value of the stock grants. As can be seen, these
values, while large by ordinary standards, are significantly less than the corresponding face
values. Notice that the ordering by face value is not the same as that by economic value. For
example, the high volatility of Conseco raises its option value to over $37 million, the tenth
highest in the table, even though its rank by face value alone is fifteenth.
EXAMPLE
Consider Sandy Weill, the chief executive officer (CEO) of Citigroup, who was
granted 6.8684 million options. The stock price at the time of the options grant was
51.15. We will assume that his options are at the money. The risk-free rate is 7 per-
cent and the options expire in five years. The preceding information implies that:
652
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
659
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
653
I TABLE 23.2 Value of 1999 Top 15 Option Grants
Face Value of
Annual Stock
Black-Scholes 
Options Granted
Standard Deviation
Value
Company
CEO
(in thousands)
(%/year)
(in thousands)
Citigroup Inc.
Sanford I. Weill
$351,318
38.26
$158,646
American Express Company
Harvey Golub
$134,102
30.69
$54,201
Cisco Systems, Inc.
John T. Chambers
$132,100
38.99
$60,259
Bank of America Corporation
Hugh L. McColl, Jr.
$104,300
36.30
$45,814
Honeywell Inc.
Michael R. Bosignore
$103,683
38.29
$54,886
ALCOA Inc.
Paul O’Neill
$ 96,352
35.96
$42,115
American General Corporation
Robert M. Devlin
$ 91,881
26.14
$34,578
Sprint Corporation
William T. Esrey
$ 86,346
34.92
$37,178
UnitedHealth Group Incorporated
William W. McGuire, M.D.
$ 84,929
39.08
$38,789
WorldCom, Inc.
Bernard J. Ebbers
$ 83,844
40.28
$38,925
General Electric Company
John F. Welch, Jr.
$ 74,493
25.39
$27,702
U.S. Bancorp
John Grundhofer
$ 70,495
40.28
$32,727
Hewlett-Packard Company
Carleton S. Fiorina
$ 67,818
42.60
$32,472
McKesson HBOC, Inc.
John H. Hammergree
$ 65,780
50.26
$34,609
Conseco, Inc.
Stephen C. Hibert
$ 63,080
60.56
$37,042
Source: Pearl Meyer & Partners.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
660
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
1. The stock price (S) of $51.15 equals the exercise price (E).
2. The risk-free rate (r) is 0.07.
3. The five-year time interval is t  5.
In addition, the variance of Citigroup stock is estimated to be (0.3826)2  0.1464.
The above information allows us to estimate the value of Sandy Weill’s op-
tions using the Black-Scholes model.
C  SN(d1)  EertN(d2)
d1  [(r  1/22)t]/
 0.8369
d2  d1 
 0.0186
N(d1)  0.7987
N(d2)  0.4926
e.07  5  0.7047
C  $51.15  0.7987  $51.15  (0.7047  0.4926) $23.098
Thus, the value of a call option on one share of Citigroup stock was $23.098. Since
Mr. Weill was granted options on 6.8684 million shares, his grant has a market
value of $158,646,000 (6.8684 million  $23.098).
The values we have computed in Table 23.2 are the economic values of the options if
they were to trade in the market. The real question is, whose value are we talking about?
Are these the costs of the options to the company? Are they the values of the options to the
executives?
Suppose that a company computes the fair market value of the options as we have done
in Table 23.2. For purposes of illustration, assume that the options are in the money, and
that they are worth $25 each. Suppose, too, that the CEO holds 1 million such options for
a total value of $25 million. This is the amount that the options would trade at in the finan-
cial markets and that traders and investors would be willing to pay for them.1 If the com-
pany were very large, it would not be unreasonable for it to view this as the cost of grant-
ing the options to the CEO. Of course, in return, the company would expect the CEO to
improve the value of the company to its shareholders by more than this amount. As we have
seen, perhaps the main purpose of options is to align the interests of management with those
of the shareholders of the firm. Under no circumstances, though, is the $25 million neces-
sarily a fair measure of what the options are worth to the CEO.
As an illustration, suppose that the CEO of ABC has options on $1 million in shares
with an exercise price of $30 per share, and the current price of ABC stock is $50 per share.
If the options were exercised today, they would be worth $20 million (an underestimation
of their market value). Suppose, in addition, that the CEO owns $5 million in company
stock and has $5 million in other assets. The CEO clearly has a very undiversified personal
portfolio. By the standards of modern portfolio theory having 25/30 or about 83 percent of
your personal wealth in one stock and its options is unnecessarily risky.
While the CEO is wealthy by most standards, significant shifts in the stock value will
have dramatic impacts on the CEO’s economic well-being. If the value drops from $50 per
share to $30 per share, the current exercise value of the options on 1 million shares drops
from $20 million down to zero. Ignoring the fact that if the options would have more time
to mature they will not lose all of this value, we nevertheless have a rather startling decline
in the CEO’s net worth from about $30 million to $8 million ($5 million in other assets plus
stock that is now worth $3 million). But that is the purpose of giving the options and the
2t
2t
654
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
1We ignore warrant dilution in this example. See Chapter 24 for a discussion of warrant dilution.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
661
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
stock holdings to the CEO, namely, to make the CEO’s fortunes rise and fall with those of
the company. It is why the company requires the executive to hold the options, at least for
a freeze-out period, rather than letting the executive sell them to realize their value.
The implication is that when options are a large portion of an executive’s net worth and
the executive is forced by the company to be undiversified, the total value of the position is
worth less to the executive than the fair financial market value. As a purely financial mat-
ter, an executive might by happier with $5 million in cash rather than $20 million in op-
tions. At the least, the executive could then diversify his personal portfolio.
• Why do companies issue options to executives if they cost the company more than they
are worth to the executive? Why not just give cash and split the difference? Wouldn’t that
make both the company and the executive better off?
23.2 VALUING A START-UP
Ralph Simmons was not your typical MBA student. Since childhood, he had had one am-
bition, to open a restaurant that sold alligator meat. He went to business school because he
realized that, although he knew 101 ways to cook alligators, he didn’t have the business
skills necessary to run a restaurant. He was extremely focused, with each course at gradu-
ate school being important to him only to the extent that it could further his dream.
While taking his school’s course in entrepreneurship, he began to develop a business
plan for his restaurant, which he now called Alligator Alley. He thought about marketing,
he thought about raising capital, he thought about dealing with future employees. He even
devoted a great deal of time to designing the physical layout of the restaurant. Against the
advice of his professor in the entrepreneurship class, he decided to design the restaurant in
the shape of an alligator, where the front door went through the animal’s mouth. Of course,
his business plan would not be complete without financial projections. After much thought,
he came up with the projections shown in Table 23.3
The table starts with sales projections, which rise from $300,000 in the first year to a
steady state of $1 million a year. Cash Flows from Operations are shown in the next line,
although we leave out the intermediate calculations needed to move from line (1) to line
Chapter 23
Options and Corporate Finance: Extensions and Applications
655
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?
I TABLE 23.3 Financial Projections for Alligator Alley
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
All Future Years
(1) Sales
$300,000
$600,000
$900,000
$1,000,000
$1,000,000
(2) Cash flows from operations
$100,000
$ 50,000
$ 75,000
$ 250,000
$ 250,000
(3) Increase in working capital
$ 50,000
$ 20,000
$ 10,000
$
10,000
0
_________
________
________
_________
_________
Net cash flows (2)  (3)
$150,000
$ 70,000
$ 65,000
$ 240,000
$ 250,000
Present value of net cash flows in years 1–4 (discounted at 20%)
$20,255
Present value of terminal value 

$602,816
Present value of restaurant
$582,561
 Cost of building
$700,000
_______
Net present value of restaurant
$117,439

$250,000
0.20

1
1.20 4	

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
662
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
(2). After subtracting Working Capital, the table shows Net Cash Flows in line 4. Net Cash
Flows are negative initially, as is quite common in start-ups, but they become positive by
Year 3. However, the rest of the table presents the unfortunate truth. The cash flows from
the restaurant yield a present value of $582,561, assuming a discount rate of 20 percent.
Unfortunately, the cost of the building is greater, at $700,000, implying a negative net pres-
ent value of $117,439.
The projections indicate that Ralph’s lifelong dream may not come to pass. He cannot
expect to raise the capital needed to open his restaurant, and if he did obtain the funding, the
restaurant would likely go under anyway. Ralph checked and rechecked the numbers, hoping
vainly to discover either a numerical error or a cost-saving omission that would move his ven-
ture from the red to the black. In fact, Ralph saw that, if anything, his forecasts are generous,
because a 20 percent discount rate and an infinitely lived building are on the optimistic side.
It wasn’t until Ralph took a course in corporate strategy that he realized the hidden
value in his venture. In that course, his instructor repeatedly stated the importance of posi-
tioning a firm to take advantage of new opportunities. Although Ralph didn’t see the con-
nection at first, he finally realized the implications for Alligator Alley. His financial pro-
jections were based on expectations. There was a 50 percent probability that alligator meat
would be more popular than he thought, in which case actual cash flows would exceed pro-
jections. And, there was a 50 percent probability that the meat would be less popular, in
which case the actual flows would fall short of projections.
If the restaurant did poorly, it would probably fold in a few years, because he would
not want to keep losing money forever. However, if the restaurant did well, he would be in
a position to expand. If alligator meat proved popular in one locale, it would likely prove
popular in other locales as well. Thus, he noticed two options, the option to abandon under
bad conditions and the option to expand under good conditions. Although both options can
be valued according to the principles of the previous chapter, we focus on the option to ex-
pand because it is probably much more valuable.
Ralph reasoned that, as much as he personally liked alligator meat, there were whole
regions of the country where consumer resistance would doom Alligator Alley. So he de-
veloped a strategy of catering only to those regions where alligator meat is somewhat pop-
ular already. He forecast that, although he could expand quickly if the first restaurant proved
successful, the market would limit him to 30 additional restaurants.
Ralph believes that this expansion will occur about four years from now. He believes
that he will need three years of operating the first restaurant to (1) get the initial restaurant
running smoothly and (2) have enough information to place an accurate value on the restau-
rant. If the first restaurant is successful enough, he will need another year to obtain outside
capital. Thus, he will be ready to build the 30 additional units around the fourth year.
Ralph will value his enterprise, including the option to expand, according to the Black-
Scholes model. From Table 23.3, we see that each unit cost $700,000, implying a total cost over
the 30 additional units of $21,000,000 (30  $700,000). The present value of the cash inflows
from these 30 units is $17,476,830 (30  $582,561), according to the table. However, because
the expansion will occur around the fourth year, this present-value calculation is provided from
the point of view of four years in the future. The present value as of today is $8,428,255
($17,476,830/(1.20)4), assuming a discount rate of 20 percent per year. Thus, Ralph views his
potential restaurant business as an option, where the exercise price is $21,000,000 and the value
of the underlying asset is $8,428,255. The option is currently out of the money, a result that fol-
lows from the negative value of a typical restaurant, as calculated in Table 23.3. Of course,
Ralph is hoping that the option will move into the money within four years.
Ralph needs three additional parameters to use the Black-Scholes model: r, the contin-
uously compounded interest rate; t, the time to maturity; and , the standard deviation of
the underlying asset. Ralph uses the yield on a four-year zero-coupon bond, which is 3.5
656
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
663
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
percent, as the estimate of the interest rate. The time to maturity is four years. The estimate
of standard deviation is a little trickier, because there is no historical data on alligator restau-
rants. Ralph finds that the average annual standard deviation of the returns on publicly
traded restaurants is 0.35. Because Alligator Alley is a new venture, he reasons that the risk
here would be somewhat greater. He finds that the average annual standard deviation for
restaurants that have gone public in the last few years is 0.45. Because Ralph’s restaurant
is newer still, he uses a standard deviation of 0.50.
There is now enough data to value Ralph’s venture. The value according to the
Black-Scholes model is $1,455,196. The actual calculations are shown in Table 23.4. Of
course, Ralph must start his pilot restaurant before he can take advantage of this option.
Thus, the net value of the call option less the negative present value of the pilot restau-
rant is $1,337,757 ($1,455,196  $117,439). Because this value is large and positive,
Ralph decides to stay with his dream of Alligator Alley. He knows that the probability
Chapter 23
Options and Corporate Finance: Extensions and Applications
657
I TABLE 23.4 Valuing a Start-Up Firm (Alligator Alley) as an Option
Facts
1. The value of a single restaurant is negative, as indicated by the net-present-value calculation
in Table 23.3 of $117,439. Thus, the restaurant would not be funded if there were no
possibility of expansion.
2. If the pilot restaurant is successful, Ralph Simmons plans to create 30 additional restaurants
around year 4. This leads to the following observations:
a. The total cost of 30 units is $21,000,000 (30  $700,000).
b. The present value of future cash flows as of year 4 is $17,476,830 (30  $582,561).
c. The present value of these cash flows today is $8,428,255 ($17,476,830/(1.20)4).
Here, we assume that cash flows from the project are discounted at 20% per annum.
Thus, the business is essentially a call option, where the exercise price is $21,000,000 and
the underlying asset is worth $8,428,255.
3. Ralph Simmons estimates the standard deviation of the return on Alligator Alley’s stock to
be 0.50.
Parameters of the Black-Scholes model:
S (stock price)  $8,428,255
E (exercise price)  $21,000,000
t (time to maturity)  4 years
 (standard deviation)  0.50
r (continuously compounded interest rate)  3.5%
Calculation from the Black-Scholes model:
C  SN(d1)  EertN(d2)
d1  [ln(S/E)  (r  1/2 2)t]/
d2  d1 
d1 
d2  0.27293 
 1.27293
N(d1)  N(0.27293)  0.3936
N(d2)  N(1.27293)  0.1020
C  $8,428,255  0.3936  $21,000,000  e0.0354  0.1020
 $1,455,196
Value of business including cost of pilot restaurant  $1,455,196  $117,439
 $1,337,757
0.50 2  4
ln 8,428,255
21,000,000  0.035  12 0.50 24	0.50 2  4  0.27293
2t
2t

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
664
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
that the restaurant will fail is greater than 50%. Nevertheless, the option to expand is im-
portant enough that his restaurant business has value. And, if he needs outside capital,
he probably can attract the necessary investors.
This finding leads to the appearance of a paradox. If Ralph approaches investors to in-
vest in a single restaurant with no possibility of expansion, he will probably not be able to
attract capital. After all, Table 23.3 shows a net present value of $117,439. However, if
Ralph thinks bigger, he will likely be able to attract all the capital that he needs. But this is
really not a paradox at all. By thinking bigger, Ralph is offering investors the option, not
the obligation, to expand.
The example we have chosen may seem frivolous and, certainly, we added offbeat
characteristics for interest. However, if you think that business situations involving options
are unusual or unimportant, let us state emphatically that nothing can be further from the
truth. The notion of embedded options is at the heart of business. There are two possible
outcomes for virtually every business idea. On the one hand, the business may fail, in which
case the managers will probably try to shut it down in the most cost-efficient way. On the
other hand, the business may prosper, in which case the managers will try to expand. Thus,
virtually every business has both the option to abandon and the option to expand. You may
have read pundits claiming that the net-present-value approach to capital budgeting is
wrong or incomplete. Although criticism of this type frequently irritates the finance estab-
lishment, the pundits definitely have a point. If virtually all projects have embedded op-
tions, only an approach such as the one we have outlined can be appropriate. Ignoring the
options is likely to lead to serious undervaluation.
• What are the two options that many businesses have?
• Why does a strict NPV calculation typically understate the value of a firm or project?
23.3 MORE ON THE BINOMIAL MODEL
Earlier in this chapter, we examined two applications of options, executive compensation
and the start-up decision. In both cases we valued an option using the Black-Scholes model.
Although this model is justifiably well known, it is not the only approach to option valua-
tion. As mentioned in the previous chapter, the binomial model is an alternative and—in
some situations—a superior approach to valuation. The rest of this chapter examines two
applications under this binomial model.
Heating Oil
Two-Date Example
Consider Anthony Meyer, a typical heating-oil distributor, whose busi-
ness consists of buying heating oil at the wholesale level and reselling the oil to homeowners
at a slightly higher price. Most of his revenue comes from sales during the winter. Today, Sep-
tember 1, heating oil sells for $1.00 per gallon. Of course, this price is not fixed. Rather, oil
prices will vary from September 1 until December 1, the time when his customers will prob-
ably be making their big winter purchases of heating oil. Let’s simplify the situation by as-
suming that Anthony believes that oil prices will either be at $1.37 or $0.73 on December 1.
Figure 23.1 portrays this possible price movement. This potential price range represents a
great deal of uncertainty, because Anthony has no idea which of the two possible prices will
actually occur. However, this price variability does not translate into that much risk, because
he is able to pass price changes on to his customers. That is, he will charge his customers more
if he ends up paying $1.37 per gallon than if he ends up paying $0.73 per gallon.
658
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
665
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Of course, Anthony is avoiding risk by passing on that risk to his customers. His cus-
tomers accept this risk, perhaps because they are each too small to negotiate a better deal
with Anthony. This is not the case with CECO, a large electric utility in his area. CECO ap-
proaches Anthony with the following proposition. The utility would like to be able to buy
up to 6 million gallons of oil from him at $1.05 per gallon on December 1.
Although this arrangement represents a lot of oil, both Mr. Meyer and CECO know that
Anthony can expect to lose money on it. If prices rise to $1.37 per gallon, the utility will
happily buy all 6 million gallons from Anthony at only $1.05 per gallon, clearly creating a
loss for the distributor. However, if oil prices decline to $0.73 per gallon, the utility will not
buy any oil from Anthony. After all, why should CECO pay $1.05 per gallon to Anthony
when the utility can buy all the oil it wants at $0.73 per gallon in the open market? In other
words, CECO is asking for a call option on heating oil. To compensate Anthony for the risk
of loss, the two parties agree that CECO will pay him $500,000 up front for the right to buy
up to 6 million gallons of oil at $1.05 per gallon.
Is this a fair deal? Although small distributors may evaluate a deal like this by “gut feel,”
we can evaluate it more quantitatively using the binomial model described in the previous chap-
ter. In that chapter, we pointed out that option problems can be handled most easily by assum-
ing risk-neutral pricing. Under this approach, we first note that oil will either rise 37 percent
($1.37/$1.00  1) or fall 27 percent ($0.73/$1.00  1) from September 1 to December 1. We
can think of these two numbers as the possible returns on heating oil. In addition, we introduce
two new terms, u and d. We define u as 1  0.37  1.37 and d as 1  0.27  0.73.2 Using the
methodology of the previous chapter, we value the contract in the following two steps.
Step 1: Determining the Risk-Neutral Probabilities
We determine the probability of a
price rise such that the expected return on oil exactly equals the risk-free rate. Assuming an
8 percent annual interest rate, which implies a 2 percent rate over the next three months, we
can solve for the probability of a rise as3:
2%  Probability of rise  0.37  (1  Probability of rise)  (0.27)
Chapter 23
Options and Corporate Finance: Extensions and Applications
659
$1.37
($0.32 = 1.37 –1.05)
$0.73
($0)
December 1
$1.00
September 1
I FIGURE 23.1 Movement of Heating-Oil Prices from September 1 to
December 1 in a Two-Date Example
The price of heating oil on December 1 will either be $1.37 or $0.73. Because the price on September 1 is $1.00,
we say that u  1.37 ($1.37 / $1.00) and d  0.73 ($0.73 / $1.00). The loss per gallon to Anthony (or, equivalently,
the gain per gallon to CECO) of $0.32 in the up-state and $0 in the down-state are shown in parentheses.
2As we will see later, here u and d are consistent with a standard deviation of the annual return on heating oil of 0.63.
3For simplicity, we ignore both storage costs and a convenience yield.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
666
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Solving this equation, we find that the probability of a rise is approximately 45 per-
cent, implying that the probability of a fall is 55 percent. In other words, if the probability
of a price rise is 45 percent, the expected return on heating oil is 2 percent. In accordance
with what we said in the previous chapter, these are the probabilities that are consistent
with a world of risk-neutrality. That is, under risk-neutrality, the expected return on any
asset would equal the riskless rate of interest. No one would demand an expected return
above this riskless rate, because risk-neutral individuals do not need to be compensated for
risk-bearing.
Step 2:Valuing the Contract
If the price of oil rises to $1.37 on December 1, CECO will
want to buy oil from Anthony at $1.05 per gallon. Anthony will lose $0.32 per gallon, be-
cause he buys oil in the open market at $1.37 per gallon, only to resell it to CECO at $1.05
per gallon. This loss of $0.32 is shown in parentheses in Figure 23.1. Conversely, if the
market price of heating oil falls to $0.73 per gallon, CECO will not buy any oil from An-
thony at all. That is, CECO would not want to pay $1.05 per gallon to Anthony when the
utility could buy heating oil in the open market at $0.73 per gallon. Thus, we can say that
Anthony neither gains nor loses if the price drops to $0.73. The gain or loss of zero is
placed in parentheses under the price of $0.73 in Figure 23.1. In addition, as mentioned
earlier, Anthony receives $500,000 up front.
Given these numbers, the value of the contract to Anthony can be calculated as:
[0.45  ($1.05  $1.37)  6 million  0.55  0]/1.02  $500,000  $347,000. (23.1)
Value of the call option
As in the previous chapter, we are valuing an option using risk-neutral pricing. The cash
flows of $0.32 ($1.05  $1.37) and $0 per gallon are multiplied by their risk-neutral prob-
abilities. The entire first term in equation (23.1) is then discounted at $1.02 because the cash
flows in that term occur on December 1. The $500,000 is not discounted, because Anthony
receives it today, September 1. Because the present value of the contract is negative, An-
thony would be wise to reject the contract.
As stated before, the distributor has sold a call option to CECO. The first term in the
preceding equation, which equals $847,000, can be viewed as the value of this call op-
tion. It is a negative number because the equation looks at the option from Anthony’s point
of view. Therefore, the value of the call option would be $847,000 to CECO. On a per-
gallon basis, the value of the option to CECO is:
[0.45 ($1.37  $1.05)  0.55  0]/1.02  $0.141
(23.2)
Equation (23.2) shows that CECO will gain $0.32 ($1.37  $1.05) per gallon in the up-
state, because CECO can buy heating oil worth $1.37 for only $1.05 under the contract.
By contrast, the contract is worth nothing to CECO in the down-state, because the util-
ity will not pay $1.05 for oil selling for only $0.73 in the open market. Using risk-
neutral pricing, the formula tells us that the value of the call option on 1 gallon of heat-
ing oil is $0.141.
Three-Date Example
Although the preceding example captures a number of aspects of
the real world, it has one deficiency. It assumes that the price of heating oil can take on only
two values on December 1. This is clearly not plausible, because oil can take on essentially
any value in reality. Although this deficiency seems glaring at first glance, it actually is quite
correctable; all one has to do is to introduce more intervals over the three-month period of
our example.
660
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
667
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
For example, consider Figure 23.2, which shows the price movement of heating oil
over two intervals of 11⁄2 months each.4 As shown in the figure, the price will be either $1.25
or $0.80 on October 15. We refer to $1.25 as the price in the up-state and $0.80 as the price
in the down-state. Thus, heating oil has returns of 25 percent ($1.25/$1) and 20 percent
($0.80/$1) in the two states.
We assume the same variability as we move forward from October 15 to December 1.
That is, given a price of $1.25 on October 15, the price on December 1 will be either $1.56
($1.25  1.25) or $1 ($1.25  0.80). Similarly, given a price of $0.80 on October 15, the
price on December 1 will be either $1 ($0.80  1.25) or $0.64 ($0.80  0.80). This as-
sumption of constant variability is quite plausible, because the rate of new information
impacting heating oil (or most commodities or assets) is likely to be similar from month
to month.
Note that there are three possible prices on December 1, but there are two possible
prices on October 15. Also note that there are two paths, both generating a price of $1 on
December 1. The price could rise to $1.25 on October 15 before falling back down to $1 on
December 1 or, alternatively, the price could fall to $0.80 on October 15 before going back
up to $1 on December 1. In other words, the model has symmetry, where an up-movement
followed by a down-movement yields the same price on December 1 as a down-movement
followed by an up-movement.
Chapter 23
Options and Corporate Finance: Extensions and Applications
661
$1.25
($0.237)
$0.80
($0)
October 15
$1.00
($0.110)
September 1
$0.64
($0)
December 1
$1.56
($0.51 = $1.56 – $1.05)
$1.00
($0)
I FIGURE 23.2 Movement of Heating-Oil Prices in a Three-Date Model
The figure shows the prices of a gallon of heating oil on three dates, given u  1.25 and 
d  0.80. There are three possible prices for heating oil on December 1. For each one of
these three prices, we calculate the price on December 1 of a call option on a gallon of
heating oil with an exercise price of $1.05. These numbers are in parentheses. Call prices
at earlier dates are determined by the binomial model and are also shown in parentheses.
4Though it is not apparent at first glance, we will see later that the price movement in Figure 23.2 is consistent
with the price movement in Figure 23.1.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
668
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
How do we value CECO’s option in this three-date example? We employ the same pro-
cedure that we used in the two-date example, although we will now need an extra step be-
cause of the extra date:
Step 1: Determining the Risk-Neutral Probabilities
As we did in the two-date example,
we determine what the probability of a price rise would be such that the expected return on
heating oil exactly equals the riskless rate. However, in this case, we work with an interval of
11⁄2 months. Assuming an 8 percent annual rate of interest, which implies a 1 percent rate over
a 11⁄2 month interval,5 we can solve for the probability of a rise as:
1%  Probability of rise  0.25  (1  Probability of rise)  (0.20)
Solving the equation, we find that the probability of a rise here is 47 percent, implying that
the probability of a fall is 53 percent. In other words, if the probability of a rise is 47 per-
cent, the expected return on heating oil is 1 percent per each 11⁄2-month interval. Again, these
probabilities are determined under the assumption of risk-neutral pricing.
Note that the probabilities of 47 percent and 53 percent hold for both the interval from
September 1 to October 15 and the interval from October 15 to December 1. This is the case
because the return in the up-state is 25 percent and the return in the down-state is 20 per-
cent for each of the two intervals. Thus, the preceding equation must apply to each of the
intervals separately.
Step 2: Valuing the Option as of October 15
As indicated in Figure 23.2, the option
to CECO will be worth $0.51 per gallon on December 1 if the price of heating oil has
risen to $1.56 on that date. That is, CECO can buy oil from Anthony at $1.05 when it
would otherwise have to pay $1.56 in the open market. However the option will be
worthless on December 1 if the price of a gallon of heating oil is either $1 or $0.64 on
that date. Here, the option is out of the money because the exercise price of $1.05 is
above either $1 or $0.64.
Using these implicit option prices on December 1, we can calculate the value of the call op-
tion on October 15. If the price of a gallon of heating oil is $1.25 on October 15,Figure 23.2 shows
us that the call option will either be worth $0.51 or $0 on December 1. Thus, if the price of heat-
ing oil is $1.25 on October 15, the value of the option on 1 gallon of heating oil at that time is:
[0.47  0.51  0.53  0]/1.01  $0.237
Here, we are valuing an option using the same risk-neutral pricing approach that we used
in the earlier two-date example. This value of $0.237 is shown in parentheses in Figure 23.2
We also want to value the option on October 15 if the price at that time is $0.80.
However, the value here is clearly zero, as indicated by the calculation:
[0.47  $0  0.53  $0]/1.01  0
This is obvious, once one looks at Figure 23.2. We see from the figure that the call must end
up out of the money on December 1 if the price of heating oil is $0.80 on October 15. Thus,
the call must have zero value on October 15 if the price of heating oil is $0.80 on that date.
Step 3: Valuing the Option on September 1
In the previous step, we saw that the price
of the call on October 15 would be $0.237 if the price of a gallon of heating oil were $1.25
on that date. Similarly, the price of the option on October 15 would be $0 if oil were sell-
ing at $0.80 on that date. From these values, we can calculate the call option value on
September 1 as:
[0.47  $0.237  0.53  $0]/1.01  $0.110
662
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
5For simplicity, we ignore interest compounding.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
669
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Notice that this calculation is completely analogous to the calculation of the option
value in the previous step, as well as the calculation of the option value in the two-date ex-
ample that we presented earlier. In other words, the same approach applies regardless of the
number of intervals used. As we will see later, we can move to many intervals, which pro-
duces greater realism, yet still maintain the same basic methodology.
The previous calculation has given us the value of CECO of its option on 1 gallon of
heating oil. Now we are ready to calculate the value of the contract to Anthony. Given the
calculations from the previous equation, the contract’s value can be written as:
$0.110  6,000,000  $500,000  $160,000
That is, Anthony is giving away an option worth $0.110 for each of the 6 million gallons of
heating oil. In return, he is receiving only $500,000 up front. On balance, he is losing
$160,000. Of course, the value of the contract to CECO is the opposite, so the value to this
utility is $160,000.
Extension to Many Dates
We have looked at the contract between CECO and Anthony
using both a two-date example and a three-date example. The three-date case is more real-
istic because more possibilities for price movements are allowed here. However, why stop
at just three dates? Moving to 4 dates, 5 dates, 50 dates, 500 dates, and so on, should give
us ever more realism. Note that, as we move to more dates, we are merely shortening the
interval between dates without increasing the overall time period of three months (Septem-
ber 1 to December 1).
For example, imagine a model with 90 dates over the three months. Here, each inter-
val is approximately one day long, because there are about 90 days in a three-month period.
The assumption of two possible outcomes in the binomial model is more plausible over a
one-day interval than it is over a 11⁄2-month interval, let alone a three-month interval. Of
course, we could probably achieve greater realism still by going to an interval of, say, one
hour or one minute.
How does one adjust the binomial model in order to accommodate increases in the
number of intervals? It turns out that two simple formulas relate u and d to the standard de-
viation of the return of the underlying asset6:
u  e/
and
d  1/u
where  is the standard deviation of the annualized return on the underlying asset (heating
oil, in this case) and n is the number of intervals over a year.
When we created the heating oil example, we assumed that the annualized standard de-
viation of the return on heating oil was 0.63 (or, equivalently, 63 percent). Because there
are four quarters in a year, u  e0.63/
 1.37 and d  1/1.37  0.73, as shown in the two-
date example of Figure 23.1. In the three-date example of Figure 23.2, where each interval
is 11⁄2 months long, u  e0.63/
 1.25 and d  1/1.25  0.80. Thus, the binomial model
can be applied in practice if the standard deviation of the return of the underlying asset can
be estimated.
We stated earlier that the value of the call option on a gallon of heating oil was esti-
mated to be $0.141 in the two-date model and $0.110 in the three-date model. How does
the value of the option change as we increase the number of intervals, while keeping the
time period constant at three months (from September 1 to December 1)? We have calcu-
8
4
n
Chapter 23
Options and Corporate Finance: Extensions and Applications
663
6See John C. Hull, Options, Futures, and Other Derivatives, 4th ed. (Upper Saddle River, N.J.: Prentice Hall,
1999) for a derivation of these formulas.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
670
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
lated the value of the call for various time intervals7 in Table 23.5. The realism increases
with the number of intervals, because the restriction of only two possible outcomes is more
plausible over a short interval than over a long one. Thus, the value of the call when the
number of intervals is 99 or infinity is likely more realistic than this value when the num-
ber of intervals is, say, 1 or 2. However, a very interesting phenomenon can be observed
from the table. Although the value of the call changes as the number of intervals increases,
convergence occurs quite rapidly. The call’s value when the number of intervals is 6 is al-
most identical to the value when there are 99 intervals. Thus, a small number of intervals
appears serviceable for the binomial model.
What happens when the number of intervals goes to infinity, implying that the length
of the interval goes to zero? It can be proved mathematically that one ends up with the value
of the Black-Scholes model. This value is also presented in Table 23.5. Thus, one can ar-
gue that the Black-Scholes model is the best approach to value the heating-oil option. It is
also quite easy to apply. We can use a calculator to value options with Black-Scholes,
whereas we must generally use a computer program for the binomial model. However, as
shown in Table 23.5, the values from the binomial model, even with relatively few inter-
vals, are quite close to the Black-Scholes value. Thus, although Black-Scholes may save us
time, it does not materially affect our estimate of value.
At this point it seems as if the Black-Scholes model is preferable to the binomial model.
Who wouldn’t want to save time and still get a slightly more accurate value? However, such
is not always the case. There are plenty of situations where the binomial model is preferred
to the Black-Scholes model. One such situation is presented in the next section.
664
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
7In this discussion we have used both intervals and dates. To keep the terminology straight, remember that the
number of intervals is always one less than the number of dates. For example, if a model has two dates, it only
has one interval.
I TABLE 23.5 Value of a Call on One Gallon of Heating Oil
Number of Intervals*
Call Value
1
$0.141
2
0.110
3
0.122
4
0.116
6
0.114
10
0.114
20
0.114
30
0.114
40
0.114
50
0.113
99
0.113
Black-Scholes
Infinity
0.113
In this example, the value of the call according to the binomial model varies as the number of intervals
increases. However, the value of the call converges rapidly to the Black-Scholes value. Thus, the binomial
model, even with only a few intervals, appears to be a good approximation to Black-Scholes.
*The number of intervals is always one less than the number of dates.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
671
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
23.4 SHUTDOWN AND REOPENING DECISIONS
Some of the earliest and most important examples of special options occur in the natural re-
sources and mining industries.
Valuing a Gold Mine
The “Woe Is Me” gold mine was founded in 1878 on one of the richest veins of gold in the
West. Thirty years later, by 1908, the mine had been played out, but occasionally, depend-
ing on the price of gold, it is reopened. Currently gold is not actively mined at Woe Is Me,
but its stock is still traded on the exchange under the ticker symbol, WOE. WOE has no debt
and, with about 20 million outstanding shares, it has a market value (stock price times num-
ber of shares outstanding) well above $1 billion. WOE owns about 160 acres of land sur-
rounding the mine and has a 100-year government lease to mine gold there. However, land
in the desert has a market value of only a few thousand dollars. WOE holds cash and secu-
rities and other assets worth about $30 million. What could possibly explain why a com-
pany with $30 million in assets and a closed gold mine that is producing no cash flow what-
soever has the market value that WOE has?
The answer lies in the options that WOE implicitly owns in the form of a gold mine.
Assume that the current price of gold is about $320 per ounce and the cost of extraction and
processing at the mine is about $350 per ounce. It is no wonder that the mine is closed. Every
ounce of gold extracted costs $350 and can be sold for only $320 for a loss of $30 per ounce.
Presumably, if the price of gold were to rise, the mine could be opened. It costs $2 million
to open the mine and when it is opened, production is 50,000 ounces per year. Geologists be-
lieve that the amount of gold in the mine is essentially unlimited, and WOE has the right to
mine it for the next 100 years. Under the terms of its lease, WOE cannot stockpile gold and
must sell each year all the gold it mines that year. Closing the mine requires equipment to be
mothballed and some environmental precautions to be put in place and costs $1 million. We
will refer to the $2 million required to open the mine as the entry fee or investment and the
$1 million to close it as the closing or abandonment cost. (There is no way to avoid the aban-
donment cost by simply keeping the mine open and not operating.)
From a financial perspective, WOE is really just a package of options on the price of
gold disguised as a company and a mine. The basic option is a call on the price of gold
where the exercise price is the $350 extraction cost. The option is complicated by having
an exercise fee of $2 million—the opening cost—whenever it is exercised and a closing fee
of $1 million when it is abandoned. It is also complicated by the fact that it is a perpetual
option with no final maturity.
The Abandonment and Opening Decisions
Before trying to figure out the exact value of the option implicit in WOE or, for that mat-
ter, in any real option problem, it is useful to see what we can say by just applying com-
mon sense. To begin with, the mine should only be opened when the price of gold is suf-
ficiently above the extraction cost of $350 per ounce. Because it costs $2 million to open
the mine, the mine should not be opened whenever the price of gold is only slightly
above $350. At a gold price of, say, $350.10, the mine wouldn’t be opened because the
ten-cent profit per ounce translates into $5,000 per year (50,000 ounces  $0.10/ounce).
This would not begin to cover the $2 million opening costs. More significantly, though,
the mine probably would not be opened if the price rose to $360 per ounce even though
a $10 profit per ounce—$500,000 per year—would pay the $2 million opening costs at
Chapter 23
Options and Corporate Finance: Extensions and Applications
665

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
672
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
any reasonable discount rate. The reason is that here, as in all option problems, volatil-
ity, in this case the volatility of gold, plays a significant role. Because the gold price is
volatile the price has to rise sufficiently above $350 per ounce to make it worth opening
the mine. If the price at which the mine is opened is too close to the extraction price of
$350 per ounce, say at $360 per ounce, for example, then we would wind up opening the
mine every time the price jogged above $360 and finding ourselves operating at a loss
or facing a closing decision whenever the gold price jogged down $10 per ounce or only
3 percent down.
The estimated volatility of the return on gold is about 15 percent per year. This
means that a single annual standard deviation movement in the gold price is 15 percent
of $320 or $48 per year. Surely with this amount of random movement in the gold price,
a threshold of $352 is much too low at which to open the mine. A similar logic applies
to the closing decision. If the mine is open, then we will clearly keep it open as long as
the gold price is above the extraction cost of $350 per ounce since we are profiting on
every ounce of gold mined. But, we also won’t close the mine down simply because the
gold price drops below $350 per ounce. We will tolerate a running loss to keep alive the
possibility that the gold price will rise above $350 and to avoid the necessity of having
to pay the $1 million abandonment cost only to have to pay another $2 million to reopen
the mine.
To summarize, if the mine is currently closed, then it will be opened—at a cost of
$2 million—whenever the price of gold rises sufficiently above the extraction cost of
$350 per ounce. If the mine is currently operating, then it will be closed down—at a cost
of $1 million—whenever the price of gold falls sufficiently below the extraction cost of
$350 per ounce. WOE’s problem is to find these two threshold prices at which it opens
a closed mine and closes an open mine. We call these prices popen and pclose, respec-
tively, where
popen  $350/ounce  pclose
In other words, WOE will open the mine if the gold price option is sufficiently in the money
and will close it when the option is sufficiently out of the money.
We know that the more volatile the gold price, the further away popen and pclose
will be from $350 per ounce. We also know that the greater the cost of opening the mine
the higher popen will be and the greater the cost of abandoning the mine the lower will
be pclose. Interestingly, we should also expect that popen will be higher if the aban-
donment cost is increased. After all, if it costs more to abandon the mine WOE will need
to be more assured that the price will stay above the extraction cost when it decides to
open the mine. Otherwise, WOE might soon face the costly choice between abandon-
ment and operating at a loss if the price falls below $350 per ounce. Similarly, raising
the cost of opening the mine will make WOE more reluctant to close an open mine. As
a result, pclose will be lower.
The above arguments have enabled us to reduce the problem of valuing WOE to two
stages. First, we have to determine the threshold prices, popen and pclose. Second, given
the best choices for these thresholds, we must determine the value of a gold option that is
exercised for a cost of $2 million when the gold price rises above popen and is shut down
for a cost of $1 million whenever the gold price is below pclose.
When the mine is open, i.e., when the option is exercised, the annual cash flow is equal
to the difference between the gold price and the extraction cost of $350 per ounce times
50,000 ounces. When the mine is shut down, it generates no cash flow.
The following diagram describes the decisions available at each point in time.
666
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
673
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Keep mine open and keep mining
Mine is open
Pay $1 million abandonment cost and cease operations
Pay $2 million to open mine and begin mining
Mine is closed
Keep mine closed
How do we determine the critical values for popen and pclose and then the value of
the mine? It is possible to get a good approximation by using the tools we have currently
developed.
Valuing the Simple Gold Mine
Here is what has to be done in order both to determine popen and pclose and to value the mine:
Step 1
Find the risk-free interest rate and the volatility. We will use a semiannual interest
rate of 3.4 percent and a volatility of 15 percent per year for gold.
Step 2
Construct a binomial tree and fill it out with gold prices. Suppose, for example,
that we set the steps of the tree six months apart. If the annual volatility is 15 percent, u is
equal to e0.15/
, which is approximately equal to 1.11. The other parameter, d, is 0.90
(1/1.11). Figure 23.3 illustrates the tree. Starting at the current price of $320, the first 11
percent increase takes the price to $355 in six months. The first 10 percent decrease takes
the price to $288. Subsequent steps are up 11 percent or down 10 percent from the previ-
ous price. The tree extends for the 100-year life of the lease or 200 six-month steps.
Using our analysis from the previous section, we now compute the risk-adjusted prob-
abilities for each step. Given a semiannual interest rate of 3.4 percent, we have
3.4%  Probability of a rise  0.11  (1  Probability of a rise)  0.10.
Solving this equation gives us 0.64 for the probability of a rise, implying that the probabil-
ity of a fall is 0.36. These probabilities are the same for each six-month interval. In other
words, if the probability of a rise is 0.64, the expected return on gold is 3.4 percent per each
six-month interval. These probabilities are determined under the assumption of risk-neutral
pricing. In other words, if investors are risk-neutral, they will be satisfied with an expected
return equal to the risk-free rate, because the extra risk of gold will not concern them.
Step 3
Now we turn the computer on and let it simulate, say, 5,000 possible paths through
the tree. At each node, the computer has a 0.64 probability of picking an “up” movement in
the price and a corresponding 0.36 probability of picking a “down” movement in the price.
A typical path might be represented by whether the price rose or fell each six-month period
over the next 100 years and it would be a list like
up, up, down, up, down, down, . . . , down
where the first “up” meant the price rose from $320 to $355 in the first six months, the next
“up” meant it again went up in the second half of the year from $355 to $394, and so on,
ending with a down move in the last half of year 100.
2
Chapter 23
Options and Corporate Finance: Extensions and Applications
667

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
674
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
With 5,000 such paths we will have a good sample of all the future possibilities for
movement in the gold price.
Step 4
Next we consider possible choices for the threshold prices, popen and pclose. For
popen, we let the possibilities be
popen  $360 or $370 or . . . or $500
a total of 15 values. For pclose we let the probabilities be
pclose  $340 or $330 or . . . or $100
a total of 25 values.
We picked these choices because they seemed reasonable and because increments of
$10 for each seemed sensible. To be precise, though, we should let the threshold prices
change as we move through the tree and get closer to the 100 year-end. Presumably, for ex-
ample, if we decided to open the mine with one year left on the lease, the price of gold
should be at least high enough to cover the $2 million-dollar opening costs in the coming
year. Since we mine 50,000 ounces per year, in year 99 we will only open the mine if the
gold price is at least $40 above the extraction cost, or $390.
668
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
$320
$355
$288
18 months
12 months
6 months
Now
$394
$259
$320
$288
$233
$355
$437
I FIGURE 23.3 A Binomial Tree for Gold Prices
Steps of the binomial tree are six months apart. For each step, u is equal to 1.11 and d is equal to 0.90.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
675
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
While this will become important at the end of the lease, using a constant threshold
shouldn’t have too big an impact on the value with 100 years to go and we will stick with
our approximation of constant threshold prices.
Step 5
We calculate the value of the mines for each pair of choices of popen and pclose.
For example, if popen  $410 and pclose  $290, we use the computer to keep track of the
cash flows if we opened the mine whenever it was closed and the gold price rose to $410,
and closed the mine whenever it was open and the gold price fell to $290. We do this for
each of the 5,000 paths we simulated in Step 4.
For example, consider the path illustrated in Figure 23.4 of
up, up, down, up, up, down, down, down, down
As can be seen from the figure, the price reaches a peak of $437 in 21⁄2 years, only to fall to
$288 over the following four six-month intervals. If popen  $410 and pclose  $290, the
mine will be opened when the price reaches $437, necessitating a cost of $2 million. How-
ever, the firm can sell 25,000 ounces of gold at $437 at that time, producing a cash flow of
$2.175 million (25,000  ($437  $350)). When the price falls to $394 six months later,
the firm sells another 25,000 ounces, yielding a cash flow of $1.1 million (25,000  ($394
 $350)). The price continues to fall, with the price reaching $320 a year later. Here, the
firm realizes a cash outflow, because production costs are $350 per ounce. Next, the price
falls to $288. Because this is below pclose of $290, the mine is closed at a cost of $1 mil-
lion. Of course, the price of gold will fluctuate in further years, leading to the possibility of
future mine openings and closings.
Chapter 23
Options and Corporate Finance: Extensions and Applications
669
–$2 million
(Mine opened)
–$1 million
(Mine closed)
–$750,000 = 25,000
    ($320–$350)
$125,000 = 25,000
   ($355–$350)
+$1.1 million = 25,000
  ($394–$350)
+$2.175 million =
25,000     ($437–$350)
$320
$320
$288
$355
$355
$394
$394
$437
$355
$394
I FIGURE 23.4 A Possible Path for the Price of Gold
Imagine that this path is one of the 5,000 simulated price paths for gold. Because popen  $410 and pclose  $290,
the mine is opened when the price reaches $437. The mine is closed when the price reaches $288.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
676
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
This path is just a possibility. It may or may not occur in any simulation of 5,000 paths.
For each of these 5,000 paths that the computer simulated, we have a sequence of semian-
nual cash flows using a popen of $410 and a pclose of $290. We calculate the present value
of each of these cash flows, discounting at the interest rate of 3.4 percent. Summing up
across all the cash flows, we have the present value of the gold mine for one path.
We then take the average present value of the gold mine across all the 5,000 simulated
paths. This number is the expected value of the mine from following a policy of opening
the mine whenever the gold price hits $410 and closing it at a price of $290.
Step 6
The final step is to compare the different expected discounted cash flows from Step
5 for the range of possible choices for popen and pclose and to pick the highest one. This
is the best estimate of the expected value of the mine. The value for pclose and popen cor-
responding to this estimate is our best estimate (within $10) of the points at which to open
a closed mine and to shut an open one.
As mentioned in Step 3, there are 15 different values for popen and 25 different values for
pclose, implying 375 (15  25) different pairs. Consider Table 23.6, which shows the present
values associated with the 20 best pairs. The table indicates that the best pair is popen  $400
and pclose  $140, with a present value of $1.467 billion. This number represents the average
present value across 5,000 simulations, all assuming the preceding values of popen and pclose.
The next best pair is popen  $460 and pclose  $300, with a present value of $1.459 billion.
The third best pair has a somewhat lower present value still, and so on.
670
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
I TABLE 23.6 Valuation of Woe Is Me (WOE) Gold Mine for the 
20 Best Choices of popen and pclose
Estimated Value of
popen
pclose
Gold Mine
$400
$140
$1,466,720,900
460
300
1,459,406,200
380
290
1,457,838,700
370
100
1,455,131,900
360
190
1,449,708,200
420
150
1,448,711,400
430
340
1,448,450,200
430
110
1,445,396,500
470
200
1,435,687,400
500
320
1,427,512,000
410
290
1,426,483,500
420
290
1,423,865,300
400
160
1,423,061,900
360
320
1,420,748,700
360
180
1,419,112,000
380
280
1,417,405,400
450
310
1,416,238,000
450
280
1,409,709,800
440
220
1,408,269,100
440
240
1,403,398,100
For our simulation, WOE opens the mine whenever the gold price rises above popen and closes the mine
whenever the gold price falls below pclose.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
677
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Of course, our estimate of the value of the mine is $1.467 billion, the present value of
the best pair of choices. The market capitalization (price  number of shares outstanding)
of WOE should reach this value if the market makes the same assumptions that we did. Note
that the value of the firm is quite high using an option framework. However, as stated ear-
lier, WOE would appear worthless if a regular discounted cash-flow approach were used.
This occurs because the initial price of gold of $320 is below the extraction cost of $350.
This example is not easy, either in terms of concepts or in terms of implementation.
However, we believe that the extra work involved in mastering this example is worth it, be-
cause it illustrates the type of modeling that actually occurs in corporate finance depart-
ments in the real world.
Furthermore, the example illustrates the benefits of the binomial approach. One merely
calculates the cash flows associated with each of a number of simulations, discounts the
cash flows from each simulation, and averages present values across the simulations.
Because the Black-Scholes model is not amenable to simulations, it cannot be used for this
type of problem. In addition, there are a number of other situations where the binomial
model is more appropriate than is the Black-Scholes model. For example, it is well known
that the Black-Scholes model cannot properly handle options with dividend payments prior
to the expiration date. This model also does not adequately handle the valuation of an
American put. By contrast, the binomial model can easily handle both these situations.
Thus, any student of corporate finance should be well versed with both models. The
Black-Scholes model should be used whenever appropriate, because it is simpler to use than
is the binomial model. However, for the more complex situations where the Black-Scholes
model breaks down, the binomial model becomes a necessary tool.
23.5 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
This chapter extends the intuitions of one of the most significant concepts in finance: option
pricing theory. We describe four different types of special options:
Executive stock options.
The embedded option in a start-up company.
The option in simple business contracts.
The option to shut down and reopen a project.
We try to keep the presentation simple and straightforward from a mathematical point of view.
We extend the binomial approach to option pricing in Chapter 22 to many periods. This
adjustment brings us closer to the real world, because the assumption of only two prices at the
end of an interval is more plausible when the interval is short.
SUGGESTED READINGS
An excellent practical treatment of real options can be found in:
Amran, Martha, and Nalin Kulatilaka. Real Options. Cambridge: Harvard Business School
Press, 1999.
Chapter 23
Options and Corporate Finance: Extensions and Applications
671

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
678
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
A more academic treatment can be found in:
Brennan, Michael, and L. Trigeorgis, eds. Flexibility, Natural Resources, and Strategic Options.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1998.
Copeland, Tom, and Vladimir Antikarov. Real Options: A Practitioner’s Guide. Texere LLC, 2001.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Executive Stock Options
23.1 William Hurt is the Chief Executive Officer of the First Pacific Trading Company (FPTC).
His annual straight salary is $1 million.
The current value of FPTC stock is $50 per share. Mr. Hurt has just been granted
options on $1 million in shares of FPTC stock at the money by FPTC’s board of directors.
The risk-free rate is 6 percent. The options have a maturity of four years. The volatility of
FPTC stock has been about 25 percent on an annual basis. Determine the value of Mr.
Hurt’s stock options.
23.2 Mr. Hurt has been quoted as saying that he doesn’t want stock options. He has said he
would be satisfied with straight pay of $1.25 million. The board of directors disagrees.
Who is right?
Flexible Production
23.3 The market for golf putters is notoriously fickle. One year mallet head putters can be the
hottest seller and the next it can be blade putters that are in demand. Tims Golf Company
(TGC) has a difficult decision to make. It can build a flexible plant that can produce either
blade or mallet head putters. The plant would have a capacity of 150,000 putters a year and
could produce either type but not both at the same time. In fact, it could be switched only
once, one year from now, and the lifetime of the plant is ten years. Currently, there is a high
demand for blade putters and TGC forecasts it will need to produce 150,000 for the next
year. One year from now there is a 50-50 chance that the company will need to produce
mallet head putters rather than blade putters. The company can also build a plant that could
only produce blade putters. Both plants would have the same capacity. The profit for the
flexible plant is $10 per blade putter and $15 per mallet putter. A fixed putter plant could
produce only blade putters but could do so more efficiently. The profit from having a fixed
plant produce blade putters is $20 per unit. The relevant discount rate is 12 percent.
In one year, it will be known if the demand for blade putters will continue for nine
more years or it will drop by 50 percent.
The company has a choice. It can either invest $1 million in a fixed plant that will
produce blade putters only or it can invest $1.5 million in a flexible plant capable of
switching from blades to mallets. What should TGC’s decision be?
Waiting to Invest
23.4 John Lusk is a real estate developer who owns the right to put up an office building on a
parcel of land in downtown Los Angeles. The office building will cost $50 million. John
Lusk does not actually plan to own and run the office building but instead he will build it,
rent it, and then sell it to a long-term investor at the end of one year. John Lusk estimates
that the building can be sold one year from now for $55 million. The IRR of the project is
10 percent and so John Lusk has determined that this is a zero NPV project. However, one
year from now there is a 50-50 chance that the cost of capital will be either 11 percent or 9
percent. John Lusk has received an offer on his option for $500. Should he take it?
672
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
23. Options and Corporate 
Finance: Extensions and 
Applications
679
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The Option to Shut Down or Reopen a Project
23.5 We are examining a new project. We expect to sell 10,000 units a year of a new golf video
at $200 net cash flow each for the next five years. The relevant discount is 15 percent and
the initial required investment is $7 million.
a. What is the base case NPV?
b. After the first year, the golf video project can be abandoned and the machinery sold for
$100,000. At what level of sales would it make sense to abandon the project?
23.6 Suppose in the previous problem, you think it is likely that expected sales will be revised
upward to 15,000 units if the first year is a success and downward to zero units if the first
year is a failure. Success or failure are equally likely. What is the NPV of the project?
Chapter 23
Options and Corporate Finance: Extensions and Applications
673

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
680
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Warrants and
Convertibles
CHAPTER 24
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
W
e study two financing instruments in this chapter, warrants and convertibles. A
warrant gives the holder the right to buy common stock for cash. In this sense, it
is very much like a call. Warrants are generally issued with privately placed
bonds, though they are also combined with new issues of common stock and preferred
stock. In the case of new issues of common stock, warrants are sometimes given to invest-
ment bankers as compensation for underwriting services.
A convertible bond gives the holder the right to exchange the bond for common stock.
Therefore, it is a mixed security blurring the traditional line between stocks and bonds.
There is also convertible preferred stock.
The chapter describes the basic features of warrants and convertibles. Here are some
of the most important questions concerning warrants and convertibles:
1. How can warrants and convertibles be valued?
2. What impact do warrants and convertibles have on the value of the firm?
3. What are the differences between warrants, convertibles, and call options?
4. Why do some companies issue bonds with warrants and convertible bonds?
5. Under what circumstances are warrants and convertibles converted into common stock?
24.1 WARRANTS
Warrants are securities that give holders the right, but not the obligation, to buy shares of
common stock directly from a company at a fixed price for a given period of time. Each
warrant specifies the number of shares of stock that the holder can buy, the exercise price,
and the expiration date.
From the preceding description of warrants, it is clear that they are similar to call op-
tions. The differences in contractual features between warrants and the call options that trade
on the Chicago Board Options Exchange are small. For example, warrants have longer ma-
turity periods.1 Some warrants are actually perpetual, meaning that they never expire at all.
Warrants are referred to as equity kickers because they are usually issued in combina-
tion with privately placed bonds.2 In most cases, warrants are attached to the bonds when is-
sued. The loan agreement will state whether the warrants are detachable from the bond, that
is, whether they can be sold separately. Usually the warrant can be detached immediately.
1Warrants are usually protected against stock splits and dividends in the same way that call options are.
2Warrants are also issued with publicly distributed bonds and new issues of common stock.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
681
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
Safeway, Inc., is one of the nation’s largest supermarket chains. On November 24,
1986, Safeway was acquired in a levered buyout by the private investment firm
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Co. (KKR). Each share of old common stock was
converted into a junior subordinated debenture (i.e., junk bond) and a “merger”
warrant. Each warrant gave the holder the right to purchase .279 shares of new com-
mon stock for $1.052 per warrant. To purchase one share of common stock, a holder
had to give up 3.584 warrants and pay an amount of $3.7691 per warrant. This made
the exercise price of the Safeway warrants equal to $13.5085 (3.584  $3.7691 
$13.5085). The warrants expired on November 24, 1996. They are called merger
warrants because Safeway issued the warrants in a buyout of old shares.
When Safeway was acquired by KKR, it was a private firm with no publicly
traded common stock or warrants. However, KKR took Safeway public on April 26,
1990, by issuing 10 million shares in a new issue of common stock. The stock was
listed on the New York Stock Exchange. On that day, several thousand warrants were
traded at a closing price of 31⁄8. The price of the Safeway common stock was 121⁄8.
The relationship between the value of Safeway’s warrants and its stock price can be
viewed like the relationship between a call option and its stock price, described in a previ-
ous chapter. Figure 24.1 depicts the relationship for Safeway warrants. The lower limit on
the value of the warrants is zero if Safeway’s stock price is below $13.5085 per share. If the
price of Safeway’s common stock rises above $13.5085 per share, the lower limit is the
stock price minus $13.5085 divided by 3.584.3 The upper limit is the price of Safeway’s
common stock divided by 3.584. A warrant to buy one share of common stock cannot sell
at a price above the price of the underlying common stock.
The price of Safeway warrants on April 26, 1990, was higher than the lower limit. The
height of the warrant price above the lower limit will depend on the following:
1. The variance of Safeway’s stock returns.
2. The time to expiration date.
Chapter 24
Warrants and Convertibles
675
Value of
warrant
Value of a share
of common stock
Upper limit
on warrant value
Actual warrant
value curve
Lower limit
on warrant value
Actual stock
price = $12 1
 
–8
Exercise
price = $13.5085
Price of
warrant = $3 1
    
–
   
8
I FIGURE 24.1 Safeway Warrants on April 26, 1990
3We need to divide by 3.584 because it takes 3.584 warrants to purchase one share of stock.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
682
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
3. The risk-free rate of interest.
4. The stock price of Safeway.
5. The exercise price.
These are the same factors that determine the value of a call option.
24.2 THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN WARRANTS
AND CALL OPTIONS
From the holder’s point of view, warrants are similar to call options on common stock. A
warrant, like a call option, gives its holder the right to buy common stock at a specified
price. Warrants usually have an expiration date, though in most cases they are issued with
longer lives than call options. From the firm’s point of view, however, a warrant is very dif-
ferent from a call option on the company’s common stock.
The most important difference between call options and warrants is that call options
are issued by individuals and warrants are issued by firms. When a warrant is exercised, a
firm must issue new shares of stock. Each time a warrant is exercised, then, the number of
shares outstanding increases.
To illustrate, suppose the Endrun Company issues a warrant giving holders the right to
buy one share of common stock at $25. Further suppose the warrant is exercised. Endrun
must print one new stock certificate. In exchange for the stock certificate, it receives $25
from the holder.
In contrast, when a call option is exercised, there is no change in the number of shares
outstanding. Suppose Ms. Eager holds a call option on the common stock of the Endrun
Company. The call option gives Ms. Eager the right to buy one share of the common stock
of the Endrun Company for $25. If Ms. Eager chooses to exercise the call option, a seller,
say Mr. Swift, is obligated to give her one share of Endrun’s common stock in exchange for
$25. If Mr. Swift does not already own a share, he must enter the stock market and buy one.
The call option is a side bet between buyers and sellers on the value of the Endrun
Company’s common stock. When a call option is exercised, one investor gains and the other
loses. The total number of shares outstanding of the Endrun Company remains constant,
and no new funds are made available to the company.
EXAMPLE
To see how warrants affect the value of the firm, imagine that Mr. Gould and Ms.
Rockefeller are two investors who have together purchased six ounces of plat-
inum. At the time they bought the platinum, Mr. Gould and Ms. Rockefeller each
contributed one-half of the cost, which we will assume was $3,000 for six ounces,
or $500 an ounce (they each contributed $1,500). They incorporated, printed two
stock certificates, and named the firm the GR Company. Each certificate repre-
sents a one-half claim to the platinum. Mr. Gould and Ms. Rockefeller each own
one certificate. Mr. Gould and Ms. Rockefeller have formed a company with plat-
inum as its only asset.
A Call Is Issued
Suppose Mr. Gould later decides to sell to Mrs. Fiske a call op-
tion issued on Mr. Gould’s share. The call option gives Mrs. Fiske the right to buy
Mr. Gould’s share for $1,800 within the next year. If the price of platinum rises
676
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
683
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
above $600 per ounce, the firm will be worth more than $3,600 and each share will
be worth more than $1,800. If Mrs. Fiske decides to exercise her option, Mr. Gould
must turn over his stock certificate and receive $1,800.
How would the firm be affected by the exercise? The number of shares will re-
main the same. There will still be two shares, now owned by Ms. Rockefeller and Mrs.
Fiske. If the price of platinum rises to $700 an ounce, each share will be worth $2,100
($4,200/2). If Mrs. Fiske exercises her option at this price, she will profit by $300.
A Warrant Is Issued Instead
This story changes if a warrant is issued. Suppose
that Mr. Gould does not sell a call option to Mrs. Fiske. Instead, Mr. Gould and Ms.
Rockefeller have a stockholders’ meeting. They vote that GR Company will issue a
warrant and sell it to Mrs. Fiske. The warrant will give Mrs. Fiske the right to receive
a share of the company at an exercise price of $1,800.4 If Mrs. Fiske decides to ex-
ercise the warrant, the firm will issue another stock certificate and give it to Mrs.
Fiske in exchange for $1,800.
From Mrs. Fiske’s perspective, the call option and the warrant seem to be the
same. The exercise prices of the warrant and the call are the same: $1,800. It is still
advantageous for Mrs. Fiske to exercise the option when the price of platinum ex-
ceeds $600 per ounce. However, we will show that Mrs. Fiske actually makes less
in the warrant situation due to dilution.
The GR Company must also consider dilution. Suppose the price of plat-
inum increases to $700 an ounce and Mrs. Fiske exercises her warrant. Two
things will occur:
1. Mrs. Fiske will pay $1,800 to the firm.
2. The firm will print one stock certificate and give it to Mrs. Fiske. The stock cer-
tificate will represent a one-third claim on the platinum of the firm.
Because Mrs. Fiske contributes $1,800 to the firm, the value of the firm increases.
It is now worth
New value of firm  Value of platinum  Contribution to the firm by Mrs. Fiske
 $4,200

$1,800
 $6,000
Because Mrs. Fiske has a one-third claim on the firm’s value, her share is
worth $2,000 ($6,000/3). By exercising the warrant, Mrs. Fiske gains $2,000 
$1,800  $200. This is illustrated in Table 24.1.
Dilution
Why does Mrs. Fiske only gain $200 in the warrant case while gaining
$300 in the call option case? The key is dilution, that is, the creation of another
share. In the call option case, she contributes $1,800 and receives one of the two
outstanding shares. That is, she receives a share worth $2,100 (1⁄2  $4,200). Her
gain is $300 ($2,100  $1,800). We rewrite this gain as
Gain on Exercise of Call:
(24.1)
$4,200
2
 $1,800  $300
Chapter 24
Warrants and Convertibles
677
4The sale of the warrant brings cash into the firm. We assume that the sale proceeds immediately leave the firm
through a cash dividend to Mr. Gould and Ms. Rockefeller. This simplifies the analysis, because the firm with
warrants then has the same total value as the firm without warrants.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
684
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
In the warrant case, she contributes $1,800 and receives a newly created share.
She now owns one of the three outstanding shares. Because the $1,800 remains in
the firm, her share is worth $2,000 [($4,200  $1,800)/3]. Her gain is $200
($2,000  $1,800). We rewrite this gain as
Gain on Exercise of Warrant:
(24.2)
Warrants also affect accounting numbers. Warrants and (as we shall see) con-
vertible bonds cause the number of shares to increase. This causes the firm’s net
income to be spread over a larger number of shares, thereby decreasing earnings
per share. Firms with significant amounts of warrants and convertible issues must
report earnings on a primary basis and a fully diluted basis.
How the Firm Can Hurt Warrant Holders
The platinum firm owned by Mr. Gould and Ms. Rockefeller has issued a warrant to Mrs.
Fiske that is in the money and about to expire. One way that Mr. Gould and Ms. Rockefeller
can hurt Mrs. Fiske is to pay themselves a large dividend. This could be funded by selling
a substantial amount of platinum. The value of the firm would fall, and the warrant would
be worth much less.
• What is the key difference between a warrant and a traded call option?
• Why does dilution occur when warrants are exercised?
• How can the firm hurt warrant holders?
$4,200  $1,800
2  1
 $1,800  $200
678
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
I TABLE 24.1 Effect of Call Option and Warrant on the GR Company*
Price of Platinum per Share
Value of Firm if:
$700
$600
No Warrant
Mr. Gould’s share
$2,100
$1,800
Ms. Rockefeller’s share
2,100
1,800
______
______
Firm
$4,200
$3,600
Call option
Mr. Gould’s claim
$
0
$1,800
Ms. Rockefeller’s claim
2,100
1,800
Mrs. Fiske’s claim
2,100
0
______
______
Firm
$4,200
$3,600
Warrant
Mr. Gould’s share
$2,000
$1,800
Ms. Rockefeller’s share
2,000
1,800
Mrs. Fiske’s share
2,000
0
______
______
Firm
$6,000
$3,600
*If the price of platinum is $700, the value of the firm is equal to the value of six ounces of platinum plus the
excess dollars paid into the firm by Mrs. Fiske. This amount is $4,200  $1,800  $6,000.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
685
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
24.3 WARRANT PRICING AND THE BLACK-SCHOLES
MODEL (ADVANCED)
We now wish to express the gains from exercising a call and a warrant in more general
terms. The gain on a call can be written as
Gain from Exercising a Single Call:
(24.3)
(Value of a share of stock)
Equation (24.3) generalizes equation (24.1). We define the firm’s value net of debt to
be the total firm value less the value of the debt. The total firm value is $4,200 in our ex-
ample and there is no debt. The # stands for the number of shares outstanding, which is 2
in our example. The ratio on the left is the value of a share of stock. The gain on a warrant
can be written as
Gain from Exercising a Single Warrant:
(24.4)
(Value of a share of stock after warrant is exercised)
Equation (24.4) generalizes (24.2). The numerator of the left-hand term is the firm’s value
net of debt after the warrant is exercised. It is the sum of the firm’s value net of debt prior
to the warrant’s exercise plus the proceeds the firm receives from the exercise. The proceeds
equal the product of the exercise price multiplied by the number of warrants. The number
of warrants appears as #w. (Our analysis uses the plausible assumption that all warrants in
the money will be exercised.) Note that #w  1 in our numerical example. The denomina-
tor, #  #w, is the number of shares outstanding after the exercise of the warrants. The ra-
tio on the left is the value of a share of stock after exercise. By rearranging terms, equation
(24.4) can be rewritten as5
Gain from Exercising a Single Warrant:
(24.5)
(Gain from a call on a firm with no warrants)
Formula (24.5) relates the gain on a warrant to the gain on a call. Note that the term within
parentheses is (24.3). Thus, the gain from exercising a warrant is a proportion of the gain
from exercising a call in a firm without warrants. The proportion #/(#  #w) is the ratio of
the number of shares in the firm without warrants to the number of shares after all the war-
rants have been exercised. This ratio must always be less than 1. Thus, the gain on a war-
rant must be less than the gain on an identical call in a firm without warrants. Note that #/(#
 #w)  2⁄3 in our example, which explains why Mrs. Fiske gains $300 on her call yet gains
only $200 on her warrant.
#
#  #w
 
Firm,s value net of debt
#
 Exercise price
Firm,s value net of debt  Exercise price  #w
#  #w
 Exercise price
Firm,s value net of debt
#
 Exercise price
Chapter 24
Warrants and Convertibles
679
5To derive formula (24.5), one should separate “Exercise price” in (24.4). This yields
By rearranging terms, one can obtain formula (24.5).
Firm,s value net of debt
#  #w

#
#  #w
 Exercise price

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
686
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The preceding implies that the Black-Scholes model must be adjusted for warrants.
When a call option is issued to Mrs. Fiske, we know that the exercise price is $1,800 and
the time to expiration is one year. Though we have posited neither the price of the stock, the
variance of the stock, nor the interest rate, we could easily provide these data for a real-
world situation. Thus, we could use the Black-Scholes model to value Mrs. Fiske’s call.
Suppose that the warrant is to be issued tomorrow to Mrs. Fiske. We know the number
of warrants to be issued, the warrant’s expiration date, and the exercise price. Using our as-
sumption that the warrant proceeds are immediately paid out as a dividend, we could use
the Black-Scholes model to value the warrant. We would first calculate the value of an iden-
tical call. The warrant price is the call price multiplied by the ratio #/(#  #w). As mentioned
earlier, this ratio is 2⁄3 in our example.
24.4 CONVERTIBLE BONDS
A convertible bond is similar to a bond with warrants. The most important difference is
that a bond with warrants can be separated into distinct securities and a convertible bond
cannot. A convertible bond gives the holder the right to exchange it for a given number of
shares of stock anytime up to and including the maturity date of the bond.
Preferred stock can frequently be converted into common stock. A convertible pre-
ferred stock is the same as a convertible bond except that it has an infinite maturity date.
EXAMPLE
Seagate Technology is one of the most important manufacturers of rigid magnetic
disk drives for computers. Its stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
On November 1, 1993, Seagate raised $300 million by issuing 6.75 percent
convertible subordinated debentures due in 2012. It planned to use the proceeds to
invest in new plant and equipment. Like typical debentures, they had a sinking
fund and were callable. Seagate’s bonds differed from other debentures in their
convertible feature: Each bond was convertible into 23.53 shares of common stock
of Seagate anytime before maturity. The number of shares received for each bond
(23.53 in this example) is called the conversion ratio.
Bond traders also speak of the conversion price of the bond. This is cal-
culated as the ratio of the face value of the bond to the conversion ratio. Be-
cause the face value of each Seagate bond was $1,000, the conversion price was
$42.5 ($1,000/23.53). The bondholders of Seagate could give up bonds with a
face value of $1,000 and receive 23.53 shares of Seagate common stock. This
was equivalent to paying $42.5 ($1,000/23.53) for each share of Seagate com-
mon stock received.
When Seagate issued its convertible bonds, its common stock was trading
at $22.625 per share. The conversion price of $42.5 was 88 percent higher than
the actual common stock price. This 88 percent is referred to as the conversion
premium. It reflects the fact that the conversion option in Seagate convertible
bonds was out of the money. This conversion premium is typical.
Convertibles are almost always protected against stock splits and stock divi-
dends. If Seagate’s common stock had been split two for one, the conversion ratio
would have been increased from 23.53 to 47.06.
680
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
687
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Conversion ratio, conversion price, and conversion premium are well-known terms in
the real world. For that reason alone, the student should master the concepts. However, con-
version price and conversion premium implicitly assume that the bond is selling at par. If
the bond is selling at another price, the terms have little meaning. By contrast, conversion
ratio can have a meaningful interpretation regardless of the price of the bond.
• What are the conversion ratio, the conversion price, and the conversion premium?
24.5 THE VALUE OF CONVERTIBLE BONDS
The value of a convertible bond can be described in terms of three components: straight bond
value, conversion value, and option value.6 We examine these three components below.
Straight Bond Value
The straight bond value is what the convertible bonds would sell for if they could not be
converted into common stock. It will depend on the general level of interest rates and on the
default risk. Suppose that straight debentures issued by Seagate had been rated A, and A-
rated bonds were priced to yield 4 percent on November 1, 1995. The straight bond value
of Seagate convertible bonds can be determined by discounting the $33.75 semiannual
coupon payment and principal amount at 4 percent.7
 $646.06  $234.3
 $880.36
The straight bond value of a convertible bond is a minimum value. The price of Seagate’s
convertible could not have gone lower than the straight bond value.
Figure 24.2 illustrates the relationship between straight bond value and stock price. In
Figure 24.2 we have been somewhat dramatic and implicitly assumed that the convertible
bond is default free. In this case the straight bond value does not depend on the stock price
and so it is graphed as a straight line.
Conversion Value
The value of convertible bonds depends on conversion value. Conversion value is what the
bonds would be worth if they were immediately converted into the common stock at current
prices. Typically, conversion value is computed by multiplying the number of shares of common
stock that will be received when the bond is converted by the current price of the common stock.
 $33.75  A 37
0.04  $1,000
1.04 37
Straight bond  
  
37
t 1
$33.75
1.04t  $1,000
1.04 37
Chapter 24
Warrants and Convertibles
681
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?
6For a similar treatment see Richard Brealey and Stewart Myers, Principles of Corporate Finance, 2nd ed. (New
York: McGraw-Hill, 1984), Chapter 23; and James C. Van Horne, Financial Markets and Flows, 2nd ed.
(Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice Hall, 1987) Chapter 11.
7This formula assumes that coupons are paid annually.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
688
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
On November 1, 1993, each Seagate convertible bond could have been converted into
23.53 shares of Seagate common stock. Seagate common was selling for $22.625. Thus, the
conversion value was 23.53  $22.625  $532.37. A convertible cannot sell for less than
its conversion value. Arbitrage prevents this from happening. If Seagate’s convertible sold
for less than $532.37, investors would have bought the bonds and converted them into com-
mon stock and sold the stock. The profit would have been the difference between the value
of the stock sold and the bond’s conversion value.
Thus, convertible bonds have two minimum values: the straight bond value and the
conversion value. The conversion value is determined by the value of the firm’s underlying
common stock. This is illustrated in Figure 24.2. As the value of common stock rises and
falls, the conversion price rises and falls with it. When the value of Seagate’s common stock
increased by $1, the conversion value of its convertible bonds increased by $23.53.
Option Value
The value of a convertible bond will generally exceed both the straight bond value and the
conversion value.8 This occurs because holders of convertibles need not convert immedi-
ately. Instead, by waiting they can take advantage of whichever is greater in the future, the
straight bond value or the conversion value. This option to wait has value, and it raises the
value over both the straight bond value and the conversion value.
682
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
Minimum convertible
bond value
(floor value)
Stock
price
Conversion
value
Straight bond
value
Convertible bond
floor value
= Conversion
   ratio
Straight bond value
greater than
conversion value
Straight bond value
less than conversion
value
I FIGURE 24.2 Minimum Value of a Convertible Bond versus the
Value of the Stock for a Given Interest Rate
As shown, the minimum, or floor, value of a convertible bond is either its
straight bond value or its conversion value, whichever is greater.
8The most plausible exception is when conversion would provide the investor with a dividend much greater than
the interest available prior to conversion. The optimal strategy here could very well be to convert immediately,
implying that the market value of the bond would exactly equal the conversion value. Other exceptions occur
when the firm is in default or the bondholders are forced to convert.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
689
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
When the value of the firm is low, the value of convertible bonds is most significantly
influenced by their underlying value as straight debt. However, when the value of the firm
is very high, the value of convertible bonds is mostly determined by their underlying con-
version value. This is illustrated in Figure 24.3.
The bottom portion of the figure implies that the value of a convertible bond is the max-
imum of its straight bond value and its conversion value, plus its option value:
Value of convertible  The greater of (Straight bond value, Conversion value)
bond
 Option value
EXAMPLE
Suppose the Moulton Company has outstanding 1,000 shares of common stock
and 100 bonds. Each bond has a face value of $1,000 at maturity. They are dis-
count bonds and pay no coupons. At maturity each bond can be converted into 10
shares of newly issued common stock.
What are the circumstances that will make it advantageous for the holders of
Moulton convertible bonds to convert to common stock at maturity?
If the holders of the convertible bonds convert, they will receive 100  10 
1,000 shares of common stock. Because there were already 1,000 shares, the total
number of shares outstanding becomes 2,000 upon conversion. Thus, converting
bondholders own 50 percent of the value of the firm, V. If they do not convert, they
will receive $100,000 or V, whichever is less. The choice for the holders of the
Chapter 24
Warrants and Convertibles
683
Convertible
bond value
Stock
price
Conversion
value
Straight bond value
Convertible bond
values
= Conversion
   ratio
Straight bond value
greater than
conversion value
Straight bond value
less than conversion
value
Floor value
Floor value
Option
value
I FIGURE 24.3 Value of a Convertible Bond versus the Value of the
Stock for a Given Interest Rate
As shown, the  value of a convertible bond is the sum of its floor value and
its option value (highlighted region).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
690
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Moulton bonds is obvious. They should convert if 50 percent of V is greater than
$100,000. This will be true whenever V is greater than $200,000. This is illustrated
as follows:
Payoff to Convertible Bondholders and Stockholders of the Moulton Company
(1)
(2)
(3)
V  $100,000
$100,000 
 V  $200,000
V  $200,000
Decision:
Bondholders
Bondholders
Bondholders
will not convert
will not convert
will convert
Convertible
bondholders
V
$100,000
0.5V
Stockholders
0
V  $100,000
0.5V
• What three elements make up the value of a convertible bond?
• Describe the payoff structure of convertible bonds.
24.6 REASONS FOR ISSUING WARRANTS AND CONVERTIBLES
Probably there is no other area of corporate finance where real-world practitioners get as
confused as they do on the reasons for issuing convertible debt. In order to separate fact
from fantasy, we present a rather structured argument. We first compare convertible debt
with straight debt. Then we compare convertible debt with equity. For each comparison, we
ask in what situations is the firm better off with convertible debt and in what situations is it
worse off.
Convertible Debt versus Straight Debt
Convertible debt pays a lower interest rate than does otherwise identical straight debt. For
example, if the interest rate is 10 percent on straight debt, the interest rate on convertible
debt might be 9 percent. Investors will accept a lower interest rate on a convertible because
of the potential gain from conversion.
Imagine a firm that seriously considers both convertible debt and straight debt, finally
deciding to issue convertibles. When would this decision have benefited the firm and when
would it have hurt the firm? We consider two situations.
The Stock Price Later Rises So That Conversion Is Indicated
The firm clearly likes to
see the stock price rise. However, it would have benefited even more had it previously is-
sued straight debt instead of a convertible. While the firm paid out a lower interest rate than
it would have with straight debt, it was obligated to sell the convertible holders a chunk of
the equity at a below-market price.
The Stock Price Later Falls or Does Not Rise Enough to Justify Conversion
The firm
hates to see the stock price fall. However, as long as the stock price does fall, it is glad that
it had previously issued convertible debt instead of straight debt. This is because the inter-
est rate on convertible debt is lower. Because conversion does not take place, our compari-
son of interest rates is all that is needed.
684
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
691
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Summary
Compared to straight debt, the firm is worse off having issued convertible debt
if the underlying stock subsequently does well. The firm is better off having issued con-
vertible debt if the underlying stock subsequently does poorly. In an efficient market, one
cannot predict future stock price. Thus, we cannot argue that convertibles either dominate
or are dominated by straight debt.
Convertible Debt versus Common Stock
Next, imagine a firm that seriously considers both convertible debt and common stock fi-
nally decides to issue convertibles. When would this decision benefit the firm and when
would it hurt the firm? We consider our two situations.
The Stock Price Later Rises So That Conversion Is Indicated
The firm is better off
having previously issued a convertible instead of equity. To see this, consider the Seagate
case. The firm could have issued stock for $22. Instead, by issuing a convertible, the firm
effectively received $42.50 for a share upon conversion.
The Stock Price Later Falls or Does Not Rise Enough to Justify Conversion
No firm
wants to see the stock price fall. However, given that the price did fall, the firm would have
been better off if it had previously issued stock instead of a convertible. The firm would
have benefited by issuing stock above its later market price. That is, the firm would have re-
ceived more than the subsequent worth of the stock. However, the drop in stock price did
not affect the value of the convertible much because the straight bond value serves as a floor.
Summary
Compared with equity, the firm is better off having issued convertible debt if
the underlying stock subsequently does well. The firm is worse off having issued convert-
ible debt if the underlying stock subsequently does poorly. One cannot predict future stock
price in an efficient market. Thus, we cannot argue that issuing convertibles is better or
worse than issuing equity. The above analysis is summarized in Table 24.2.
Modigliani-Miller (MM) pointed out that, abstracting from taxes and bankruptcy costs,
the firm is indifferent to whether it issues stock or issues debt. The MM relationship is a
quite general one. Their pedagogy could be adjusted to show that the firm is indifferent to
Chapter 24
Warrants and Convertibles
685
I TABLE 24.2 The Case for and against Convertible Bonds (CBs)
If Firm Subsequently
If Firm Subsequently
Does Poorly
Prospers
Convertible bonds (CBs)
No conversion because of low 
Conversion because of high 
stock price
stock price
Compared to:
Straight bonds
CBs provide cheap financing 
CBs provide expensive 
because coupon rate is lower.
financing because bonds are 
converted, which dilutes
existing equity.
Common stock
CBs provide expensive 
CBs provide cheap financing 
financing because firm could 
because firm issues stock at 
have issued common stock at 
high prices when bonds are 
high prices.
converted.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
692
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
whether it issues convertibles or issues other instruments. To save space (and the patience
of students), we have omitted a full-blown proof of MM in a world with convertibles.
However, the above results are perfectly consistent with MM. Now we turn to the real-world
view of convertibles.
The “Free Lunch” Story
The preceding discussion suggests that issuing a convertible bond is no better and no worse
than issuing other instruments. Unfortunately, many corporate executives fall into the trap
of arguing that issuing convertible debt is actually better than issuing alternative instru-
ments. This is a free lunch type of explanation, of which we are quite critical.
EXAMPLE
The stock price of RW Company is $20. Suppose this company can issue subor-
dinated debentures at 10 percent. It can also issue convertible bonds at 6 percent
with a conversion value of $800. The conversion value means that the holders can
convert a convertible bond into 40 ($800/$20) shares of common stock.
A company treasurer who believes in free lunches might argue that convert-
ible bonds should be issued because they represent a cheaper source of financing
than either subordinated bonds or common stock. The treasurer will point out that
if the company does poorly and the price does not rise above $20, the convertible
bondholders will not convert the bonds into common stock. In this case, the com-
pany will have obtained debt financing at below-market rates by attaching worth-
less equity kickers. On the other hand, if the firm does well and the price of its
common stock rises to $25 or above, convertible holders will convert. The com-
pany will issue 40 shares. The company will receive a bond with face value of
$1,000 in exchange for issuing 40 shares of common stock, implying a conversion
price of $25. The company will have issued common stock de facto at $25 per
share, or 20 percent above the $20 common-stock price prevailing when the con-
vertible bonds were issued. This enables it to lower its cost of equity capital. Thus,
the treasurer happily points out, regardless of whether the company does well or
poorly, convertible bonds are the cheapest form of financing.
Although this argument may sound quite plausible at first glance, there is a
flaw. The treasurer is comparing convertible financing with straight debt when the
stock subsequently falls. However, the treasurer compares convertible financing
with common stock when the stock subsequently rises. This is an unfair mixing of
comparisons. By contrast, our analysis of Table 24.2 was fair, because we exam-
ined both stock increases and decreases when comparing a convertible with each
alternative instrument. We found that no single alternative dominated convertible
bonds in both up and down markets.
The “Expensive Lunch” Story
Suppose we stand the treasurer’s argument on its head by comparing (1) convertible fi-
nancing with straight debt when the stock rises and (2) convertible financing with equity
when the stock falls.
From Table 24.2, we see that convertible debt is more expensive than straight debt when
the stock subsequently rises. The firm’s obligation to sell convertible holders a chunk of the
equity at a below-market price more than offsets the lower interest rate on a convertible.
686
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
693
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Also from Table 24.2, we see that convertible debt is more expensive than equity when
the stock subsequently falls. Had the firm issued stock, it would have received a price higher
than its subsequent worth. Therefore, the expensive lunch story implies that convertible
debt is an inferior form of financing. Of course, we dismiss both the free lunch and the ex-
pensive lunch arguments.
A Reconciliation
In an efficient financial market there is neither a free lunch nor an expensive lunch. Con-
vertible bonds can be neither cheaper nor more expensive than other instruments. A con-
vertible bond is a package of straight debt and an option to buy common stock. The differ-
ence between the market value of a convertible bond and the value of a straight bond is the
price investors pay for the call-option feature. In an efficient market this is a fair price.
In general, if a company prospers, issuing convertible bonds will turn out to be worse
than issuing straight bonds and better than issuing common stock. In contrast, if a company
does poorly, convertible bonds will turn out to be better than issuing straight bonds and
worse than issuing common stock.
• What is wrong with the simple view that it is cheaper to issue a bond with a warrant or a
convertible feature because the required coupon is lower?
• What is wrong with the Free Lunch story?
• What is wrong with the Expensive Lunch story?
24.7 WHY ARE WARRANTS AND CONVERTIBLES ISSUED?
From studies it is known that firms that issue convertible bonds are different from other
firms. Here are some of the differences:
1. The bond ratings of firms using convertibles are lower than those of other firms.9
2. Convertibles tend to be used by smaller firms with high growth rates and more financial
leverage.10
3. Convertibles are usually subordinated and unsecured.
The kind of company that uses convertibles provides clues to why they are issued. Here
are some explanations that make sense.
Matching Cash Flows
If financing is costly, it makes sense to issue securities whose cash flows match those of the
firm. A young, risky, and, it hopes, growing firm might prefer to issue convertibles or bonds
with warrants because these will have lower initial interest costs. When the firm is suc-
cessful, the convertibles (or warrants) will be converted. This causes expensive dilution, but
it occurs when the firm can most afford it.
Risk Synergy
Another argument for convertible bonds and bonds with warrants is that they are useful
when it is very costly to assess the risk of the issuing company. Suppose you are evaluating
Chapter 24
Warrants and Convertibles
687
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?
9E. F. Brigham, “An Analysis of Convertible Debentures,” Journal of Finance 21 (1966).
10W. H. Mikkelson, “Convertible Calls and Security Returns,” Journal of Financial Economics 9 (September
1981), p. 3.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
694
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
a new product by a start-up company. The new product is a biogenetic virus that may in-
crease the yields of corn crops in northern climates. It may also cause cancer. This type of
product is difficult to value properly. Thus, the risk of the company is very hard to deter-
mine: it may be high, or it may be low. If you could be sure the risk of the company was
high, you would price the bonds for a high yield, say 15 percent. If it was low, you would
price them at a lower yield, say 10 percent.
Convertible bonds and bonds with warrants can protect somewhat against mistakes of
risk evaluation. Convertible bonds and bonds with warrants have two components: straight
bonds and call options on the company’s underlying stock. If the company turns out to be
a low-risk company, the straight bond component will have high value and the call option
will have low value. However, if the company turns out to be a high-risk company, the
straight bond component will have low value and the call option will have high value. This
is illustrated in Table 24.3.
However, although risk has effects on value that cancel each other out in convertibles
and bonds with warrants, the market and the buyer nevertheless must make an assessment
of the firm’s potential to value securities, and it is not clear that the effort involved is that
much less than is required for a straight bond.
Agency Costs
Convertible bonds can resolve agency problems associated with raising money. In a previ-
ous chapter we showed that straight bonds are like risk-free bonds minus a put option on
the assets of the firm. This creates an incentive for creditors to force the firm into low-risk
activities. In contrast, holders of common stock have incentives to adopt high-risk projects.
High-risk projects with negative NPV transfer wealth from bondholders to stockholders. If
these conflicts cannot be resolved, the firm may be forced to pass up profitable investment
opportunities. However, because convertible bonds have an equity component, less expro-
priation of wealth can occur when convertible debt is issued instead of straight debt.11 In
other words, convertible bonds mitigate agency costs. One implication is that convertible
bonds have less-restrictive debt covenants than do straight bonds in the real world. Casual
empirical evidence seems to bear this out.
Backdoor Equity
A popular theory of convertibles views them as backdoor equity.12 The basic story is that
young, small, high-growth firms cannot usually issue debt on reasonable terms due to high
688
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
11A. Barnea, R. A. Haugen, and L. Senbet, Agency Problems and Financial Contracting, Prentice Hall
Foundations of Science Series (New York: Prentice Hall, 1985), Chapter VI.
12J. Stein, “Convertible Bonds as Backdoor Equity Financing,” Journal of Financial Economics, 32 (1992). See
also Craig M. Lewis, Richard J. Ragolski, and James K. Seward, “Understanding the Design of Convertible
Debt,” The Journal of Applied Corporate Finance (Spring, 1998).
I TABLE 24.3 A Hypothetical Case of the Yields on Convertible Bonds*
Firm Risk
Low
High
Straight bond yield
10%
15%
Convertible bond yield
6
7
*The yields on straight bonds reflect the risk of default. The yields on convertibles are not sensitive to default risk.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
695
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
financial distress costs. However, the owners may be unwilling to issue equity if current
stock prices are too low. 
Lewis, Ragolski, and Sewart examine the risk shifting and backdoor equity theories of
convertible bond debt. They find evidence for both theories.
• Why do firms issue convertible bonds and bonds with warrants?
24.8 CONVERSION POLICY
There is one aspect of convertible bonds that we have omitted so far. Firms are frequently
granted a call option on the bond. The typical arrangements for calling a convertible bond are
simple. When the bond is called, the holder has about 30 days to choose between the following:
1. Converting the bond to common stock at the conversion ratio.
2. Surrendering the bond and receiving the call price in cash.
What should bondholders do? It should be obvious that if the conversion value of the
bond is greater than the call price, conversion is better than surrender; and if the conversion
value is less than the call price, surrender is better than conversion. If the conversion value
is greater than the call price, the call is said to force conversion.
What should financial managers do? Calling the bonds does not change the value of
the firm as a whole. However, an optimal call policy can benefit the stockholders at the ex-
pense of the bondholders. Because we are speaking of dividing a pie of fixed size, the op-
timal call policy is very simple: Do whatever the bondholders do not want you to do.
Bondholders would love the stockholders to call the bonds when the bond’s market
value is below the call price. Shareholders would be giving bondholders extra value.
Alternatively, should the value of the bonds rise above the call price, the bondholders would
love the stockholders not to call the bonds, because bondholders would be allowed to hold
onto a valuable asset.
There is only one policy left. This is the policy that maximizes shareholder value and
minimizes bondholder value. This policy is
Call the bond when its value is equal to the call price.
It is a puzzle that firms do not always call convertible bonds when the conversion value
reaches the call price. Ingersoll examined the call policies of 124 firms between 1968 and
1975.13 In most cases he found that the company waited to call the bonds until the conver-
sion value was much higher than the call price. The median company waited until the con-
version value of its bonds was 44 percent higher than the call price. This is not even close
to the above optimal strategy. Why?
One reason is that if firms attempt to implement the above optimal strategy, it may not be
truly optimal. Recall that bondholders have 30 days to decide whether to convert bonds to com-
mon stock or to surrender bonds for the call price in cash. In 30 days, the stock price could drop,
forcing the conversion value below the call price. If so, the convertible is “out of the money”
Chapter 24
Warrants and Convertibles
689
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?
13J. Ingersoll, “An Examination of Corporate Call Policies on Convertible Bonds,” Journal of Finance (May
1977). See also M. Harris and A. Raviv, “A Sequential Signalling Model of Convertible Debt Policy,” Journal of
Finance (December 1985). Harris and Raviv describe a signal equilibrium that is consistent with Ingersoll’s
result. They show that managers with favorable information will delay calls to avoid depressing stock prices.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
696
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
and the firm is giving away money. The firm would be giving up cash for common stock worth
much less. Because of this possibility, firms in the real world usually wait until the conversion
value is substantially above the call price before they trigger the call.14 This is sensible.
• Why will convertible bonds not be voluntarily converted to stock before expiration?
• When should firms force conversion of convertibles? Why?
24.9 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1. A warrant gives the holder the right to buy shares of common stock at an exercise price for a
given period of time. Typically, warrants are issued in a package with privately placed bonds.
Afterward they become detached and trade separately.
2. A convertible bond is a combination of a straight bond and a call option. The holder can give
up the bond in exchange for shares of stock.
3. Convertible bonds and warrants are like call options. However, there are some important
differences:
a. Warrants and convertible securities are issued by corporations. Call options are traded
between individual investors.
i. Warrants are usually issued privately and are combined with a bond. In most cases the
warrants can be detached immediately after the issue. In some cases warrants are issued
with preferred stock, with common stock, or in executive compensation programs.
ii. Convertibles are usually bonds that can be converted into common stock.
iii. Call options are sold separately by individual investors (called writers of call options).
b. Warrants and call options are exercised for cash. The holder of a warrant gives the
company cash and receives new shares of the company’s stock. The holder of a call option
gives another individual cash in exchange for shares of stock. When someone converts a
bond, it is exchanged for common stock. As a consequence, bonds with warrants and
convertible bonds have different effects on corporate cash flow and capital structure.
c. Warrants and convertibles cause dilution to the existing shareholders. When warrants are
exercised and convertible bonds converted, the company must issue new shares of
common stock. The percentage ownership of the existing shareholders will decline. New
shares are not issued when call options are exercised.
4. Many arguments, both plausible and implausible, are given for issuing convertible bonds and
bonds with warrants. One plausible rationale for such bonds has to do with risk. Convertibles
and bonds with warrants are associated with risky companies. Lenders can do several things
to protect themselves from high-risk companies:
690
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
14See Paul Asquith, “Convertible Bonds Are Not Called Late,” Journal of Finance (September 1995). On the
other hand, the stock market usually reacts negatively to the announcement of a call. For example, see A. K.
Singh, A. R. Cowan, and N. Nayan, “Underwritten Calls of Convertible Bonds,” Journal of Financial
Economics (March 1991) and M. A. Mazzeo and W. T. Moore, “Liquidity Costs and Stock Price Response to
Convertible Security Calls,” Journal of Business (July 1992).
Most recently, Ederington, Caton, and Campbell test various theories on when it is optimal to call
convertibles. They find evidence consistent for the preceding 30-day “safety margin” theory. They also find that
calls of in-the-money convertibles are highly unlikely if dividends to be received (after conversion) exceed the
company’s interest payment. See Louis H. Ederington, Gary L. Caton, and Cynthia J. Campbell, “To Call or Not
to Call Convertible Debt,” Financial Management (Spring 1997).
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
697
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
a. They can require high yields.
b. They can lend less or not at all to firms whose risk is difficult to assess.
c. They can impose severe restrictions on such debt.
Another useful way to protect against risk is to issue bonds with equity kickers. This gives
the lenders the chance to benefit from risks and reduces the conflicts between bondholders
and stockholders concerning risk.
5. A puzzle particularly vexes financial researchers: Convertible bonds usually have call
provisions. Companies appear to delay calling convertibles until the conversion value greatly
exceeds the call price. From the shareholders’ standpoint, the optimal call policy would be to
call the convertibles when the conversion value equals the call price.
KEY TERMS
Conversion premium
680
Convertible bond
680
Conversion price
680
Force conversion
689
Conversion ratio
680
Warrants
674
Conversion value
681
SUGGESTED READINGS
The following articles analyze when it is optimal to force conversion of convertible bonds:
Asquith, P. “Convertible Bonds Are Not Called Late.” Journal of Finance (September 1995).
Brennan, M., and E. Schwartz. “Convertible Bonds: Valuation and Optimal Strategies for Call
Conversion.” Journal of Finance (December 1977).
Michael Brennan examines the conventional arguments for and against convertible bonds and
offers a new “risk synergy” rationale:
Brennan, M. “The Case for Convertibles.” In J. M. Stern and D. H. Crew, eds. The Revolution in
Corporate Finance. New York: Basil Blackwell, 1986.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
24.1 Define:
a. Warrants
b. Convertibles
Warrants
24.2 Explain why the following limits on warrant prices exist.
a. The lower limit is zero if the stock price is below the exercise price.
b. The lower limit is stock price less exercise price if the stock price is above the exercise
price.
c. The upper limit is the price of the stock.
24.3 a. What is the primary difference between warrants and calls?
b. What is the implication of that difference?
24.4 Suppose the GR Company, which was discussed in the text, sells Mrs. Fiske a warrant.
Prior to the sale, the company has two shares outstanding. Mr. Gould owns one share and
Ms. Rockefeller owns the other share. The assets of the firm are seven ounces of platinum,
Chapter 24
Warrants and Convertibles
691

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
698
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
which were purchased at $500 per ounce. The exercise price of the warrant is $1,800. All
funds that enter the firm are used to purchase more platinum. Mrs. Fiske is sold the
warrant moments after incorporation for $500.
a. What is the price of GR stock before the warrant is sold?
b. At what price for platinum will Mrs. Fiske exercise her warrant?
c. Suppose the price of platinum suddenly rises to $520 per ounce.
i. What is the value of GR?
ii. What will Mrs. Fiske do?
iii. What is the new price per share of GR stock?
iv. What was Mrs. Fiske’s gain from the exercise?
d. What would Mrs. Fiske’s gain have been if Mr. Gould had sold her a call?
e. Why are Mrs. Fiske’s gains different?
24.5 General Autos has its warrants traded in the market and they will expire five years from
today. Each warrant is entitled to purchase 0.25 shares of General Autos common stock at
$10 per share.
a. Suppose General Autos stock is currently selling for $8. What is the lower limit on the
warrant value? What is the upper limit?
b. Suppose General Autos stock is currently selling for $12. What is the lower limit on
the warrant value? What is the upper limit?
24.6 Pace Western Crystal, Inc., has outstanding 10 million common shares and 200,000
warrants. Each warrant can purchase five shares of common stock at $15 per share.
Warrant holders exercised all of their warrants today. Pace Western’s stock price before
the exercise was $17. What should the new stock price be after the exercise? Assume
there is no information content on the exercise of the warrants.
24.7 A warrant entitles the holder to buy 10 shares of common stock at $21 per share. When
the market price of the stock is $15, will the market price of the warrant equal zero? Why
or why not?
24.8 Grand Mills Corporation has 4 million shares of common stock outstanding. The
company has 500,000 warrants being traded in the market. Each warrant has the right to
buy one share of common stock at $20 per share. The warrant will expire one year from
today. Grand Mills stock is selling for $22 per share and the variance of the return on
the stock is 0.005. The risk-free rate is 5 percent. Use the Black-Scholes model to price
the warrant.
24.9 Express Transportation’s current market-balance sheet shows assets of the firm are
$150 million. The market value of the debt Express has issued is $47 million. Express
has 1.5 million shares of common stock outstanding. Tomorrow, Express will issue
100,000 warrants. Each warrant has the option to buy five shares of Express common
stock for one year. The proceeds of the issue will be used to pay the dividend that is
due tomorrow. Call options on the firm’s stock with similar terms are currently selling
for $4.70. What will be the price of Express warrants?
24.10 Consider the following warrants.
Warrant X: For each warrant held, three shares of common stock can be purchased at
an exercise price of $20 per share.
Warrant Y: For each warrant held, two shares of common stock can be purchased at
an exercise price of $30 per share.
The current market price of stock X is $30 per share. The current market price of stock Y
is $40 per share.
a. What is the minimum value of warrant X?
b. What is the minimum value of warrant Y?
692
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
699
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Convertibles
24.11 At issuance of McArthur Corp.’s convertible bonds, one of the two following sets of
characteristics was true.
A
B
Offering price of bond
$900
$1,000
Bond value (straight debt)
$900
$ 950
Stock price
$ 20
$
30
Conversion ratio
50
30
Which of the relationships do you believe was more likely to have prevailed? Why?
24.12 The following facts apply to a convertible security:
Conversion price
$25/share
Coupon rate
6%
Par value
$1,000
Yield on nonconvertible debenture of same quality
10%
Market value of straight bond of same quality with
$950
coupon rate of 10%
Stock price
$24/share
a. What is the minimum price at which the convertible should sell?
b. What accounts for any premium in the market price of the convertible over the value
of the common stock into which it can be converted?
24.13 Ms. Mary Malone is a CEO of Malone, Inc., and owns 500,000 shares of the common
stock. The company’s total number of common shares outstanding is 4 million. The
company also has $20 million of convertible bond outstanding. The face value of the
bond is $1,000 and its conversion price is $20. Malone’s common stock is currently
selling for $25, and the company has decided to call the bond to force conversion.
Calculate Ms. Malone’s ownership changes between, before, and after the call. Assume
that Ms. Malone does not hold any of the company’s convertible bond.
24.14 Ryan Home Products, Inc., issued $430,000 of 8-percent convertible debentures. Each
bond is convertible into 28 shares of common stock anytime before maturity.
a. Suppose the current price of the bonds is $1,000 and the current price of Ryan
common is $31.25.
i. What is the conversion ratio?
ii. What is the conversion price?
iii. What is the conversion premium?
b. Suppose the current price of the bonds is $1,180 and the current price of Ryan
common is $31.25.
i. What is the conversion ratio?
ii. What is the conversion price?
iii. What is the conversion premium?
c. What is the conversion value of the debentures?
d. If the value of Ryan common increases by $2, what will the conversion value be?
24.15 Acme Medical Supplies, Inc., issued a zero coupon convertible bond due 10 years from
today. The bond has a face value of $1,000 at maturity. Each bond can be converted into
25 shares of Acme’s common stock. The appropriate interest rate is 10 percent. The
company’s stock is selling for $12 per share. Each convertible bond is traded at $400 in
the market.
a. What is the straight bond value?
b. What is the conversion value?
c. What is the option value of the bond?
Chapter 24
Warrants and Convertibles
693

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
24. Warrants and 
Convertibles
700
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
24.16 A $1,000 par convertible debenture has a conversion price for common stock of $180 per
share. With the common stock selling at $60, what is the conversion value of the bond?
24.17 You are a financial analyst hired to value a new 30-year callable, convertible bond. The
bond has a 6-percent coupon payable annually. The conversion price is $125. The stock
currently sells for $35. The stock price is expected to rise 15 percent per year. The bond
is callable at $1,100. The required return on the bond is 10 percent.
a. What is the straight bond value?
b. What is the conversion value?
c. How long would it take for the conversion value to exceed a call price?
694
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
701
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
CHAPTER 25
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
H
ardly a day seems to go by without a story in the popular press about some firm that
has taken a major hit to its bottom line from its activities in the derivatives markets.
Perhaps the largest losses due to derivative trading involved the U.S. firm MG Re-
fining and Marketing (MGRM) and its German parent Metallgesellschaft (MGAG).1 In late
1993 and early 1994, the financial press reported more than $1 billion of losses from
MGRM’s trading in oil futures. MGAG is one of Germany’s largest industrial firms, gen-
erating more than $17 billion in sales revenue in 1993. It has been a closely held firm with
65 percent of its ownership in the hands of seven large institutional owners including the
Deutsche Bank, one of the largest banks in the world.
MGRM’s derivatives were a central element in its marketing strategy in which it at-
tempted to offset customers’ long-term price guarantees (up to 10 years) on gasoline, heat-
ing oil, and diesel fuel purchased from MGRM with futures trading. How did MGRM
hedge its resulting exposure to spot price increases? Why did MGRM lose so much money?
These are some of the questions that we will address in this chapter.
MGRM is not the only firm with reportedly large losses because of derivatives.
Procter & Gamble and Gibson Greeting Cards have allegedly lost hundreds of millions of
dollars in trading derivatives. The trading of derivatives by Nicholas Leeson is widely
credited with having brought down the venerable international merchant bank of Barings.
In addition, we have the Piper Jaffrey funds in which investors in a supposedly secure
medium-term government bond fund lost 50 percent of their value, and Orange County
(California), whose investments lost so much that there was concern about whether basic
public services would be disrupted. Whether all of these really happened because of the
use or misuse of derivatives will probably be settled years later in the courts, but in the
court of public opinion, the culprit has been named—derivatives—and regulators and
politicians are deciding on the sentence.
In this chapter we take a close look at derivatives—what they are, how they work, and
the uses to which they can be put. When we are done, you will understand how financial
derivatives are designed, and you will be able to decide for yourself in an informed fashion
what is happening when the next derivatives scandal erupts.
Derivatives, Hedging, and Risk
The name derivatives is self-explanatory. A derivative is a financial instrument whose pay-
offs and values are derived from, or depend on, something else. Often we speak of the thing
that the derivative depends on as the primitive or the underlying. For example, in Chapter
22 we studied how options work. An option is a derivative. The value of a call option de-
pends on the value of the underlying stock on which it is written. Actually, call options are
1C. Culp and M. Miller, “Metallgesellschaft and the Economics of Synthetic Storage,” Journal of Applied
Corporate Finance (Winter 1995), discuss the MGRM derivative losses.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
702
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
quite complicated examples of derivatives. The vast majority of derivatives are simpler than
call options. Most derivatives are forward or futures agreements or what are called swaps,
and we will study each of these in some detail.
Why do firms use derivatives? The answer is that derivatives are tools for changing the
firm’s risk exposure. Someone once said that derivatives are to finance what scalpels are to
surgery. By using derivatives, the firm can cut away unwanted portions of risk exposure and
even transform the exposures into quite different forms. A central point in finance is that
risk is undesirable. In our chapters on risk and return, we pointed out that individuals would
choose risky securities only if the expected return compensated for the risk. Similarly, a
firm will accept a project with high risk only if the return on the project compensates for
this risk. Not surprisingly, then, firms are usually looking for ways to reduce their risk.
When the firm reduces its risk exposure with the use of derivatives, it is said to be hedging.
Hedging offsets the firm’s risk, such as the risk in a project, by one or more transactions in
the financial markets.
Derivatives can also be used to merely change or even increase the firm’s risk exposure.
When this occurs, the firm is speculating on the movement of some economic variables—
those that underlie the derivative. For example, if a derivative is purchased that will rise in
value if interest rates rise, and if the firm has no offsetting exposure to interest rate changes,
then the firm is speculating that interest rates will rise and give it a profit on its derivatives
position. Using derivatives to translate an opinion about whether interest rates or some other
economic variable will rise or fall is the opposite of hedging—it is risk enhancing.
Speculating on your views on the economy and using derivatives to profit if that view turns
out to be correct is not necessarily wrong, but the speculator should always remember that
sharp tools cut deep, and if the opinions on which the derivatives position is based turn out
to be incorrect, then the consequences can prove costly. Efficient market theory teaches how
difficult it is to predict what markets will do. Most of the sad experiences with derivatives
have occurred not from their use as instruments for hedging and offsetting risk, but, rather,
from speculation.
25.1 FORWARD CONTRACTS
We can begin our discussion of hedging by considering forward contracts. One frequently
hears the one-liner about the gentleman who was shocked to find he had been speaking
prose all his life. Forward contracts are a lot like that; you have probably been dealing in
them your whole life without knowing it. Suppose you walk into a bookstore on, say, Feb-
ruary 1 to buy the best-seller Eating Habits of the Rich and Famous. The cashier tells you
that the book is currently sold out, but he takes your phone number, saying that he will re-
order it for you. He says the book will cost $10.00. If you agree on February 1 to pick up
and pay $10.00 for the book when called, you and the cashier have engaged in a forward
contract. That is, you have agreed both to pay for the book and to pick it up when the book-
store notifies you. Since you are agreeing to buy the book at a later date, you are buying a
forward contract on February 1. In commodity parlance, you will be taking delivery when
you pick up the book. The book is called the deliverable instrument.
The cashier, acting on behalf of the bookstore, is selling a forward contract.
(Alternatively, we say that he is writing a forward contract.) The bookstore has agreed to
turn the book over to you at the predetermined price of $10.00 as soon as the book arrives.
The act of turning the book over to you is called making delivery. Table 25.1 illustrates the
book purchase. Note that the agreement takes place on February 1. The price is set and the
696
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
703
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
conditions for sale are set at that time. In this case, the sale will occur when the book ar-
rives. In other cases, an exact date of sale would be given. However, no cash changes hands
on February 1; cash changes hands only when the book arrives.
Though forward contracts may have seemed exotic to you before you began this chap-
ter, you can see that they are quite commonplace. Dealings in your personal life probably
have involved forward contracts. Similarly, forward contracts occur all the time in business.
Every time a firm orders an item that cannot be delivered immediately, a forward contract
takes place. Sometimes, particularly when the order is small, an oral agreement will suffice.
Other times, particularly when the order is larger, a written agreement is necessary.
Note that a forward contract is not an option. Both the buyer and the seller are obli-
gated to perform under the terms of the contract. Conversely, the buyer of an option chooses
whether or not to exercise the option.
A forward contract should be contrasted with a cash transaction, that is, a transaction
where exchange is immediate. Had the book been on the bookstore’s shelf, your purchase
of it would constitute a cash transaction.
• What is a forward contract?
• Give examples of forward contracts in your life.
25.2 FUTURES CONTRACTS
A variant of the forward contract takes place on financial exchanges. Contracts on exchanges
are usually called futures contracts. For example, consider Table 25.2, which provides data
on trading in wheat for Thursday, September 15, 20X1. Let us focus on the September fu-
tures contract, which is illustrated in the first row of the table. The first trade of the day in
the contract was for $4.11 per bushel. The price reached a high of $4.16 1⁄4 during the day and
reached a low of $4.07. The last trade was also at $4.07. In other words, the contract closed
or settled at $4.07. The price dropped 61⁄4 cents per bushel during the day, indicating that the
price closed the previous day at $4.131⁄4 ($4.07  $0.0625). The contract had been trading
for slightly less than a year. During that time, the price reached a high of $4.21 per bushel
and a low of $2.72 per bushel. The open interest indicates the number of contracts out-
standing. The number of contracts outstanding at the close of September 15 was 423.
Chapter 25
Derivatives and Hedging Risk
697
I TABLE 25.1 Illustration of Book Purchase as a Forward Contract
February 1
Date When Book Arrives
Buyer
Buyer agrees to:
Buyer:
1. Pay the purchase price of $10.00.
1. Pays purchase price of $10.00.
2. Receive book when book arrives.
2. Receives book.
Seller
Seller agrees to:
Seller:
1. Give up book when book arrives.
1. Gives up book.
2. Accept payment of $10.00 when book arrives.
2. Accepts payment of $10.00.
Note that cash does not change hands on February 1. Cash changes hands when the book arrives.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
704
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Though we are discussing a futures contract, let us work with a forward contract first.
Suppose you wrote a forward contract for September wheat at $4.07. From our discussion
on forward contracts, this would mean that you would agree to turn over an agreed-upon
number of wheat bushels for $4.07 per bushel on some specified date in the remainder of
the month of September.
A futures contract differs somewhat from a forward contract. First, the seller can choose
to deliver the wheat on any day during the delivery month, that is, the month of September.
This gives the seller leeway that he would not have with a forward contract. When the seller
decides to deliver, he notifies the exchange clearinghouse that he wants to do so. The clear-
inghouse then notifies an individual who bought a September wheat contract that she must
stand ready to accept delivery within the next few days. Though each exchange selects the
buyer in a different way, the buyer is generally chosen in a random fashion. Because there
are so many buyers at any one time, the buyer selected by the clearinghouse to take delivery
almost certainly did not originally buy the contract from the seller now making delivery.
Second, futures contracts are traded on an exchange whereas forward contracts are
generally traded off an exchange. Because of this, there is generally a liquid market in fu-
tures contracts. A buyer can net out her futures position with a sale. A seller can net out his
futures position with a purchase. This procedure is analogous to the netting-out process in
the options markets. However, the buyer of an options contract can also walk away from the
contract by not exercising it. If a buyer of a futures contract does not subsequently sell her
contract, she must take delivery.
Third, and most important, the prices of futures contracts are marked to the market on
a daily basis. That is, suppose that the price falls to $4.05 on Friday’s close. Because all buy-
ers lost two cents per bushel on that day, they each must turn over the two cents per bushel
to their brokers within 24 hours, who subsequently remit the proceeds to the clearinghouse.
Because all sellers gained two cents per bushel on that day, they each receive two cents per
bushel from their brokers. Their brokers are subsequently compensated by the clearinghouse.
Because there is a buyer for every seller, the clearinghouse must break even every day.
Now suppose that the price rises to $4.12 on the close of the following Monday. Each
buyer receives seven cents ($4.12  $4.05) per bushel and each seller must pay seven cents
per bushel. Finally, suppose that, on Monday, a seller notifies his broker of his intention to
deliver.2 The delivery price will be $4.12, which is Monday’s close. 
There are clearly many cash flows in futures contracts. However, after all the dust settles,
the net price to the buyer must be the price at which she bought originally. That is, an individ-
ual buying at Thursday’s closing price of $4.07 and being called to take delivery on Monday
698
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
I TABLE 25.2 Data on Wheat Futures Contracts, Thursday,
September 15, 20X1
Lifetime
Open
Open
High
Low
Settle
Change
High
Low
Interest
Sept
411
4161⁄4
407
407
61⁄4
421
272
423
Oct
427
4321⁄4
422
4231⁄4
51⁄2
4321⁄4
289
47,454
Mar X2
4301⁄2
436
4261⁄2
427
41⁄4
436
323
42,823
May
409
4431⁄2
404
405
51⁄2
420
330
3,422
July
375
3761⁄2
369
3703⁄4
63⁄4
395
327
4,805
2He will deliver on Wednesday, two days later.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
705
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
pays two cents per bushel on Friday, receives seven cents per bushel on Monday, and takes de-
livery at $4.12. Her net outflow per bushel is $4.07 ($0.02  $0.07  $4.12), which is the
price at which she contracted on Thursday. (Our analysis ignores the time value of money.)
Conversely, an individual selling at Thursday’s closing price of $4.07 and notifying his broker
concerning delivery the following Monday receives two cents per bushel on Friday, pays seven
cents per bushel on Monday and makes delivery at $4.12. His net inflow per bushel is $4.07
($0.02  $0.07  $4.12), which is the price at which he contracted on Thursday.
These details are presented in the adjacent box. For simplicity, we assumed that the
buyer and seller who initially transact on Thursday’s close meet in the delivery process.3
The point in the example is that the buyer’s net payment of $4.07 per bushel is the same as
if she purchased a forward contract for $4.07. Similarly, the seller’s net receipt of $4.07 per
bushel is the same as if he sold a forward contract for $4.07 per bushel. The only difference
Chapter 25
Derivatives and Hedging Risk
699
3As pointed out earlier, this is actually very unlikely to occur in the real world.
ILLUSTRATION OF EXAMPLE INVOLVING
MARKING TO MARKET IN
FUTURES CONTRACTS
Both buyer and seller originally transact at Thursday’s closing price. Delivery takes place
at Monday’s closing price.*
Delivery
(notification
Thursday,
Friday,
Monday,
given by seller
September 19
September 20
September 23
on Monday)
Closing price:
$4.07
$4.05
$4.12
BUYER
Buyer pur-
Buyer must
Buyer receives
Buyer pays
chases futures
pay two cents/
seven cents/
$4.12 per bushel
contract at
bushel to
bushel from
and receives grain
closing price
clearinghouse
clearinghouse
within one 
of $4.07/bushel.
within one
within one
business day.
business day.
business day.
Buyer’s net payment of $4.07 ($0.02  $0.07  $4.12) is the same as if buyer pur-
chased a forward contract for $4.07/bushel.
SELLER
Seller sells
Seller receives
Seller pays
Seller receives
futures contract
two cents/
seven cents/
$4.12 per bushel
at closing price
bushel from
bushel to
and delivers grain
of $4.07/bushel.
clearinghouse
clearinghouse
within one 
within one
within one
business day.
business day.
business day.
Seller’s net receipts of $4.07 ($0.02  $0.07  $4.12) are the same as if seller sold a
forward contract for $4.07/bushel.
*For simplicity, we assume that buyer and seller both (1) initially transact at the same time and
(2) meet in delivery process. This is actually very unlikely to occur in the real world because the clear-
inghouse assigns the buyer to take delivery in a random manner.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
706
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
is the timing of the cash flows. The buyer of a forward contract knows that he will make a
single payment of $4.07 on the expiration date. He will not need to worry about any other
cash flows in the interim. Conversely, though the cash flows to the buyer of a futures con-
tract will net to exactly $4.07 as well, the pattern of cash flows is not known ahead of time.
The mark-to-the-market provision on futures contracts has two related effects. The first
concerns differences in net present value. For example, a large price drop immediately fol-
lowing purchase means an immediate outpayment for the buyer of a futures contract.
Though the net outflow of $4.07 is still the same as under a forward contract, the present
value of the cash outflows is greater to the buyer of a futures contract. Of course, the pres-
ent value of the cash outflows is less to the buyer of a futures contract if a price rise fol-
lowed purchase.4 Though this effect could be substantial in certain theoretical circum-
stances, it appears to be of quite limited importance in the real world.5
Second, the firm must have extra liquidity to handle a sudden outflow prior to expira-
tion. This added risk may make the futures contract less attractive.
Students frequently ask, “Why in the world would managers of the commodity ex-
changes ruin perfectly good contracts with these bizarre mark-to-the-market provisions?”
Actually, the reason is a very good one. Consider the forward contract of Table 25.1 con-
cerning the bookstore. Suppose that the public quickly loses interest in Eating Habits of the
Rich and Famous. By the time the bookstore calls the buyer, other stores may have dropped
the price of the book to $6.00. Because the forward contract was for $10.00, the buyer has
an incentive not to take delivery on the forward contract. Conversely, should the book be-
come a hot item selling at $15.00, the bookstore may simply not call the buyer.
As indicated, forward contracts have a very big flaw. Whichever way the price of the
deliverable instrument moves, one party has an incentive to default. There are many cases
where defaults have occurred in the real world. One famous case concerned Coca-Cola.
When the company began in the early 20th century, Coca-Cola made an agreement to sup-
ply its bottlers and distributors with cola syrup at a constant price forever. Of course, sub-
sequent inflation would have caused Coca-Cola to lose large sums of money had they hon-
ored the contract. After much legal effort, Coke and its bottlers put an inflation-escalator
clause in the contract. Another famous case concerned Westinghouse. It seems the firm had
promised to deliver uranium to certain utilities at a fixed price. The price of uranium sky-
rocketed in the 1970s, making Westinghouse lose money on every shipment. Westinghouse
defaulted on its agreement. The utilities took Westinghouse to court but did not recover
amounts anything near what Westinghouse owed them.
The mark-to-the-market provisions minimize the chance of default on a futures con-
tract. If the price rises, the seller has an incentive to default on a forward contract. However,
after paying the clearinghouse, the seller of a futures contract has little reason to default. If
the price falls, the same argument can be made for the buyer. Because changes in the value
of the underlying asset are recognized daily, there is no accumulation of loss, and the in-
centive to default is reduced. 
Because of this default issue, forward contracts generally involve individuals and
institutions who know and can trust each other. But as W. C. Fields said, “Trust every-
body, but cut the cards.” Lawyers earn a handsome living writing supposedly air-tight
forward contracts, even among friends. The genius of the mark-to-the-market system is
that is can prevent default where it is most likely to occur—among investors who do not
700
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
4The direction is reversed for the seller of a futures contract. However, the general point that the net present
value of cash flows may differ between forward and futures contracts holds for sellers as well.
5See John C. Cox, John E. Ingersoll, and Steven A. Ross. “The Relationship between Forward and Future
Prices,” Journal of Financial Economics (1981).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
707
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
know each other. Textbooks on futures contracts from one or two decades ago usually
include a statement such as “No major default has ever occurred on the commodity ex-
changes.” No textbook published after the Hunt Brothers defaulted on silver contracts in
the 1970s can make that claim. Nevertheless, the extremely low default rate in futures
contracts is truly awe-inspiring.
Futures contracts are traded in three areas: agricultural commodities, metals and pe-
troleum, and financial assets. The extensive array of futures contracts is listed in Table 25.3.
• What is a futures contract?
• How is a futures contract related to a forward contract?
• Why do exchanges require futures contracts to be marked to the market?
Chapter 25
Derivatives and Hedging Risk
701
I TABLE 25.3 Futures Contracts Listed in The Wall Street Journal
Contract
Contract Size
Exchange
Agricultural (grain and oilseeds)
Corn
5,000 bushels
Chicago Board of Trade (CBT)
Oats
5,000 bushels
CBT
Soybeans
5,000 bushels
CBT
Soybean meal
400 tons
CBT
Soybean oil
60,000 lbs.
CBT
Wheat
5,000 bushels
CBT
Wheat
5,000 bushels
Kansas City (KC)
Wheat
5,000 bushels
Minneapolis
Barley
20 metric tons
Winnipeg (WPG)
Flaxseed
20 metric tons
WPG
Rapeseed
20 metric tons
WPG
Wheat
20 metric tons
WPG
Rye
20 metric tons
WPG
Agricultural (livestock and meat)
Cattle (feeder)
44,000 lbs.
Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME)
Cattle (live)
40,000 lbs.
CME
Hogs
30,000 lbs.
CME
Pork bellies
40,000 lbs.
CME
Agricultural (food, fiber, and wood)
Cocoa
10 metric tons
Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange 
(CSCE)
Coffee
37,500 lbs.
CSCE
Cotton
50,000 lbs.
New York Cotton Exchange (CTN)
Orange juice
15,000 lbs.
CTN
Sugar (world)
112,000 lbs.
CSCE
Sugar (domestic)
142,000 lbs.
CSCE
Lumber
150,000 board feet
CME
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
708
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
702
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
I TABLE 25.3 (concluded)
Contract
Contract Size
Exchange
Metals and petroleum
Copper (standard)
25,000 lbs.
Commodity Exchange in New York 
(CMX)
Gold
100 troy oz.
CMX
Platinum
50 troy oz.
New York Mercantile (NYM)
Palladium
100 troy oz.
NYM
Silver
5,000 troy oz.
CMX
Silver
1,000 troy oz.
CBT
Crude oil (light sweet)
1,000 barrels
NYM
Heating oil no. 2
42,000 gallons
NYM
Gas oil
100 metric tons
International Petroleum Exchange of 
London (IPEL)
Gasoline unleaded
42,000 gallons
NYM
Financial
British pound
62,500 pounds
International Monetary Market in 
Chicago (IMM)
Australian dollar
100,000 dollars
IMM
Canadian dollar
100,000 dollars
IMM
Japanese yen
12.5 million yen
IMM
Swiss franc
125,000 francs
IMM
German mark
125,000 marks
IMM
Eurodollar
$1 million
London International Financial 
Futures Exchange (LIFFE)
Financial
Sterling
500,000 pounds
LIFFE
Treasury bonds
$1 million
LIFFE
Long gilt
250,000 pounds
LIFFE
Eurodollar
$1 million
IMM
U.S. Dollar Index
500 times Index
Financial Instrument Exchange in 
New York (FINEX)
CRB Index
500 times Index
New York Futures Exchange (NYFE)
Treasury bonds
$100,000
CBT
Treasury notes
$100,000
CBT
5-year Treasury notes
$100,000
CBT
5-year Treasury notes
$100,000
FINEX
Treasury bonds
$50,000
MCE
Treasury bonds
$1 million
IMM
Financial indexes
Municipal bonds
1,000 times Bond
CBT
Buyer Index
S&P 500 Index
500 times Index
CME
NYSE Composite
500 times Index
NYFE
Kansas City Value Line Index
500 times Index
KC
Major Market Index
250 times Index
CBT

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
709
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
25.3 HEDGING
Now that we have determined how futures contracts work, let us talk about hedging. There
are two types of hedges, long and short. We discuss the short hedge first.
EXAMPLE
In June, Bernard Abelman, a Midwestern farmer, anticipates a harvest of 50,000
bushels of wheat at the end of September. He has two alternatives.
1. Write Futures Contracts against His Anticipated Harvest. The September
wheat contract on the Chicago Board of Trade is trading at $3.75 a bushel on June 1.
He executes the following transaction:
Date of
Transaction
Transaction
Price per Bushel
June 1
Write 10 September
$3.75
futures contracts
He notes that transportation costs to the designated delivery point in Chicago are
30 cents/bushel. Thus, his net price per bushel is $3.45  $3.75  $0.30.
2. Harvest the Wheat without Writing a Futures Contract. Alternatively, Mr.
Abelman could have harvested the wheat without benefit of a futures contract. The
risk would be quite great here since no one knows what the cash price in September
will be. If prices rise, he will profit. Conversely, he will lose if prices fall.
We say that strategy 2 is an unhedged position because there is no attempt to
use the futures markets to reduce risk. Conversely, strategy 1 involves a hedge.
That is, a position in the futures market offsets the risk of a position in the physi-
cal, that is, in the actual, commodity.
Though hedging may seem quite sensible to you, it should be mentioned that
not everyone hedges. Mr. Abelman might reject hedging for at least two reasons.
First, he may simply be uninformed about hedging. We have found that not
everyone in business understands the hedging concept. Many executives have told
us that they do not want to use futures markets for hedging their inventories be-
cause the risks are too great. However, we disagree. While there are large price
fluctuations in these markets, hedging actually reduces the risk that an individual
holding inventories bears.
Second, Mr. Abelman may have a special insight or some special information
that commodity prices will rise. He would not be wise to lock in a price of $3.75
if he expects the cash price in September to be well above this price.
The hedge of strategy 1 is called a short hedge, because Mr. Abelman reduces
his risk by selling a futures contract. The short hedge is very common in business.
It occurs whenever someone either anticipates receiving inventory or is holding in-
ventory. Mr. Abelman was anticipating the harvest of grain. A manufacturer of
soybean meal and oil may hold large quantities of raw soybeans, which are already
paid for. However, the price to be received for meal and oil are not known because
no one knows what the market price will be when the meal and oil are produced.
The manufacturer may write futures contracts in meal and oil to lock in a sales
Chapter 25
Derivatives and Hedging Risk
703

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
710
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
price. An oil company may hold large inventories of petroleum to be processed
into heating oil. The firm could sell futures contracts in heating oil in order to lock
in the sales price. A mortgage banker may assemble mortgages slowly before sell-
ing them in bulk to a financial institution. Movements of interest rates affect the
value of the mortgages during the time they are in inventory. The mortgage banker
could sell Treasury-bond futures contracts in order to offset this interest-rate risk.
(This last example is treated later in this chapter.)
EXAMPLE
On April 1, Moon Chemical agreed to sell petrochemicals to the U.S. government
in the future. The delivery dates and prices have been determined. Because oil is
a basic ingredient of the production process, Moon Chemical will need to have
large quantities of oil on hand. The firm can get the oil in one of two ways:
1. Buy the Oil As the Firm Needs It. This in an unhedged position because, as
of April 1, the firm does not know the prices it will later have to pay for the oil. Oil
is quite a volatile commodity, so Moon Chemical is bearing a good bit of risk. The
key to this risk-bearing is that the sales price to the U.S. government has already
been fixed. Thus, Moon Chemical cannot pass on increased costs to the consumer.
2. Buy Futures Contracts.6 The firm can buy futures contracts with expira-
tion months corresponding to the dates the firm needs inventory. The futures con-
tract locks in the purchase price to Moon Chemical. Because there is a crude-oil
futures contract for every month, selecting the correct futures contract is not diffi-
cult. Many other commodities have only five contracts per year, frequently neces-
sitating buying contracts one month away from the month of production.
As mentioned earlier, Moon Chemical is interested in hedging the risk of fluc-
tuating oil prices because it cannot pass any cost increases on to the consumer.
Suppose, alternatively, that Moon Chemical was not selling petrochemicals on
fixed contract to the U.S. government. Instead, imagine that the petrochemicals
were to be sold to private industry at currently prevailing prices. The price of petro-
chemicals should move directly with oil prices, because oil is a major component
of petrochemicals. Because cost increases are likely to be passed on to the con-
sumer, Moon Chemical would probably not want to hedge in this case. Instead, the
firm is likely to choose strategy 1, buying the oil as it is needed. If oil prices in-
crease between April 1 and September 1, Moon Chemical will, of course, find that
its inputs have become quite costly. However, in a competitive market, its revenues
are likely to rise as well.
Strategy 2 is called a long hedge because one purchases a futures contract to
reduce risk. In other words, one takes a long position in the futures market. In gen-
eral, a firm institutes a long hedge when it is committed to a fixed sales price. One
class of situations involves actual written contracts with customers, such as Moon
Chemical had with the U.S. government. Alternatively, a firm may find that it can-
not easily pass on costs to consumers or does not want to pass on these costs. For
704
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
6Alternatively, the firm could buy the oil on April 1 and store it. This would eliminate the risk of price
movement, because the firm’s oil costs would be fixed upon the immediate purchase. However, this strategy
would be inferior to strategy 2 in the common case where the difference between the futures contract quoted on
April 1 and the April 1 cash price is less than storage costs.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
711
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
example, a group of students opened a small meat market called What’s Your Beef
near the University of Pennsylvania in the late 1970s.7You may recall that this was
a time of volatile consumer prices, especially food prices. Knowing that their fel-
low students were particularly budget-conscious, the owners vowed to keep food
prices constant, regardless of price movements in either direction. They accom-
plished this by purchasing futures contracts in various agricultural commodities.
CASE STUDY
Making the Decision to Use Derivatives: The Case of Metallgesellschaft
E
arlier in the chapter we introduced MG Refining and Marketing (MGRM),a U.S.subsidiary of Met-
allgesellschaft AG (MGAG).8 MGRM reportedly lost more than $1 billion from trading deriva-
tives. Essentially, MGRM sold gasoline, heating oil, and diesel fuel at fixed prices for up to 10 years in
the future.This is called “selling forward.” In 1993 MGRM had sold forward more than 150 million
barrels of petroleum products.As in any “selling forward program,” MGRM would lose if the prices
of petroleum products rose over time. For example, suppose MGRM had agreed to sell 150 million
barrels of heating oil 10 years from now at $25 per barrel. In 10 years, if the actual price of heating
oil turned out to be $35 per barrel, MGRM would stand to lose $10 for every barrel it must sell.
There are several things that MGRM could do to hedge this exposure.
1. MGRM could have attempted to acquire 150 million barrels of oil for forward delivery 10 years
from now.If the 10-year forward price had been $25 per barrel,MGRM would have broken even.
In theory,this would have been a perfect hedge.Unfortunately,it is almost impossible to find firms
who will commit to buying or selling 150 million barrels of oil 10 years in the future.There is no
organized 10-year forward market in petroleum products.
2. MGRM could have tried to buy a futures contract that would guarantee delivery of 150 million
barrels of oil 10 years from now at $25 per barrel. But, as with forward trading, there is no 10-
year futures market for petroleum products.
3. Because no 10-year futures contract existed, MGRM employed a “rolling stack” strategy.That is,
they first bought a short-term, say, a one-year, futures contract instead of the 10-year contract.
At the end of one year, when the futures contract matured, MGRM wrote another one-year fu-
tures contract.The strategy called for a series of 10 one-year futures contracts over the 10 years.
The strategy can be best understood in a two-year example.At date 0,MGRM would sell oil forward
10 years, at, say, $25 a barrel, to its customers. Simultaneously, MGRM would buy a one-year futures
contract, also at $25 a barrel.9 Now assume that the spot price of oil, i.e., the price for immediate
delivery,rises to $30 a barrel at date 1.Also,at date 2,the price of the one-year futures contract sells
at $30 a barrel. Here, MGRM would break even and at date 1, would gain $5 on its first one-year fu-
tures contract.That is, its futures contract issued at date 0 requires it to pay $25 for a barrel of oil
Chapter 25
Derivatives and Hedging Risk
705
7Ordinarily, an unusual firm name in this textbook is a tip-off that it is fictional. This, however, is a true story.
8For a spirited debate on what caused the MGRM derivative trading losses, please read: F. R. Edwards and M. S.
Canter, “The Collapse of Metallgesellschaft: Unhedgeable Risks, Poor Hedging Strategy or Just Bad Luck,”
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance (Spring 1995); A. S. Mello and J. E. Parsons, “Maturity Structure of a
Hedge Matters: Lessons from the Metallgesellschaft Debacle,” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance (Spring
1995); C. Culp and M. Miller, “Hedging in the Theory of Corporate Finance: A Reply to Our Critics,” Journal
of Applied Corporate Finance (Spring 1995).
9For simplicity, we assume a level “term structure” of oil prices. A case of nonlevel prices, while more
complex, would lead to the same conclusion. We also use the term of one year when rolling stacks are usually
in terms of months.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
712
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
at date 1. It could immediately sell this oil in the spot market at $30 a barrel. However, at date 2, it
would lose $5.That is, its futures contract issued at date 1 requires it to buy oil at $30 a barrel at
date 2.This oil must be sold to its customers for only $25 at date 2.
Unfortunately, there are two potential problems with this hedge. First, the entire term struc-
ture of oil prices need not move together. For example, if the spot price of oil was only $29 at date
1 while the one-year futures contract was quoted at $30 on that date, the firm would lose $1.That
is, the gain on the first contract of $4 ($29  $25) would be less than the loss of $5 ($30  $25)
on the second contract.
Second, the first contract must be settled before the second contract, necessitating liquidity
problems. For example, if oil prices fell at date 1, the loss on the first contract would be settled to
that date.The gain on the second contract would occur at date 2.10 In fact, oil prices did fall over
much of the 10-year life of MGRM’s hedge, causing large liquidity problems.
The above shows that risks arise even when a position is hedged.However,MGRM created a third
risk (and perhaps greater risk) by eliminating their hedge in the middle. Suppose, in our example, that
MGRM bought the first futures contract at date 0 but did not buy the second futures contract at date
1.That is, they did not “roll over” their hedge. Since the firm had previously sold oil forward for two
years, they would be unhedged over the second year.A rise in oil prices over the second year to pay
$35 would mean that MGRM would have to buy oil in the spot market at $35 on date 2 in order to 
simultaneously sell oil to its customers at $25.While MGRM in the real world had a 10-year contract,
the effect was similar.After MGRM failed to roll over its stacked hedge, i.e., failed to buy futures con-
tracts in later years, oil prices rose. MGRM suffered great losses because of this.
Was the decision to terminate the right one? No one can really know the answer to this im-
portant question. It may be that the funding requirements from margin calls forced MGRM into liq-
uidating the futures leg of the hedge, precipitating the collapse. It is possible that the rolling stack
hedge was not well designed and had more risks than was initially perceived. It is also possible that
the program was terminated prematurely and, had MGRM hung on, the hedge would have been op-
erative. Nevertheless, it must be pointed out that MGRM incurred quite a bit of bad luck. Oil prices
fell when MGRM was hedged,leading to liquidity problems.Oil prices rose after the hedge was lifted,
leading to losses.
• Define short and long hedges.
• Under what circumstances is each of the two hedges used?
• What is a rolling stack strategy?
25.4 INTEREST-RATE FUTURES CONTRACTS
In this section we consider interest-rate futures contracts. Our examples deal with futures
contracts on Treasury bonds because of their high popularity. We first price Treasury bonds
and Treasury-bond forward contracts. Differences between futures and forward contracts
are explored. Hedging examples are provided next.
Pricing of Treasury Bonds
As mentioned earlier in the text, a Treasury bond pays semiannual interest over its life. In
addition, the face value of the bond is paid at maturity. Consider a 20-year, 8-percent
coupon bond that was issued on March 1. The first payment is to occur in six months, that
is, on September 1. The value of the bond can be determined as
706
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
10In addition, since futures contracts are marked-to-the-market daily, gains and losses on the first contract must
be settled each day over the first year. If oil prices fell, margin calls would have occurred over the first year.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
713
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Pricing of a Treasury Bond:
(25.1)
Because an 8-percent coupon bond pays interest of $80 a year, the semiannual coupon
is $40. Principal and the semiannual coupons are both paid at maturity. As we mentioned
in a previous chapter, the price of the Treasury bond, PTB, is determined by discounting each
payment on a bond at the appropriate spot rate. Because the payments are semiannual, each
spot rate is expressed in semiannual terms. That is, imagine a horizontal term structure
where the effective annual yield is 12 percent for all maturities. Because each spot rate, r,
is expressed in semiannual terms, each spot rate is 
 1  5.83%. Because coupon
payments occur every six months, there are 40 spot rates over the 20-year period.
Pricing of Forward Contracts
Now, imagine a forward contract where, on March 1, you agree to buy a new 20-year, 8-
percent coupon Treasury bond in six months, that is, on September 1. As with typical for-
ward contracts, you will pay for the bond on September 1, not March 1. The cash flows from
both the Treasury bond issued on March 1 and the forward contract that you purchase on
March 1 are presented in Figure 25.1. The cash flows on the Treasury bond begin exactly
six months earlier than do the cash flows on the forward contract. The Treasury bond is pur-
chased with cash on March 1 (date 0). The first coupon payment occurs on September 1
(date 1). The last coupon payment occurs at date 40, along with the face value of $1,000.
The forward contract compels you to pay PFORW.CONT., the price of the forward contract, on
September 1 (date 1). You receive a new Treasury bond at that time. The first coupon pay-
ment from the bond you receive occurs on March 1 of the following year (date 2). The last
coupon payment occurs at date 41, along with the face value of $1,000.
Given the 40 spot rates, equation (25.1) showed how to price a Treasury bond. How
does one price the forward contract on a Treasury bond? Just as we saw earlier in the
text that net-present-value analysis can be used to price bonds, we will now show that
1.12
PTB 
$40
1  r1

$40
1  r2 2 
$40
1  r3 3  . . . 
$40
1  r39 39 
$1,040
1  r40 40
Chapter 25
Derivatives and Hedging Risk
707
Date
0
1
2
3
39
40
41
March 1
Sept. 1 March 1
Sept. 1
Sept. 1 March 1
Sept. 1
Treasury
Bond
Forward
Contract
Price
of
 Treasury
bond
(PTB)
+$40
+$40
+$40
+$40
$1,040
Price
of
 forward
contract
(PFORW.CONT.)
+$40
+$40
+$40
+$40
+$1,040
. . .
. . .
. . .
I FIGURE 25.1 Cash Flows for Both a Treasury Bond and a Forward
Contract on a Treasury Bond

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
714
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
net-present-value analysis can be used to price forward contracts. Given the cash flows
for the forward contract in Figure 25.1, the price of the forward contract must satisfy the
following equation:
(25.2)
The right-hand side of equation (25.2) discounts all the cash flows from the delivery in-
strument (the Treasury bond issued on September 1) back to date 0 (March 1). Because the
first cash flow occurs at date 2 (March 1 of the subsequent year), it is discounted by 1/(1 
r2)2. The last cash flow of $1,040 occurs at date 41, so it is discounted by 1/(1  r41)41. The
left-hand side represents the cost of the forward contract as of date 0. Because the actual
outpayment occurs at date 1, it is discounted by 1/(1  r1).
Students often ask, “Why are we discounting everything back to date 0, when we are
actually paying for the forward contract on September 1?” The answer is simply that we ap-
ply the same techniques to equation (25.2) that we apply to all capital-budgeting problems;
we want to put everything in today’s (date 0’s) dollars. Given that the spot rates are known
in the marketplace, traders should have no more trouble pricing a forward contract by equa-
tion (25.2) than they would have pricing a Treasury bond by (25.1).
Forward contracts are similar to the underlying bonds themselves. If the entire term
structure of interest rates unexpectedly shifts upward on March 2, the Treasury bond issued
the previous day should fall in value. This can be seen from equation (25.1). A rise in each
of the spot rates lowers the present value of each of the coupon payments. Hence, the value
of the bond must fall. Conversely, a fall in the term structure of interest rates increases the
value of the bond.
The same relationship holds with forward contracts, as can be seen from rewriting
(25.2) as
(25.3)
We went from (25.2) to (25.3) by multiplying both the left- and the right-hand sides by 
(1  r1). If the entire term structure of interest rates unexpectedly shifts upward on March 2,
the first term on the right-hand side of equation (25.3) should fall in value.11 That is, both
r1 and r2 will rise an equal amount. However, r2 enters as a squared term, 1/(1  r2)2, so an
increase in r2 more than offsets the increase in r1. As we move further to the right, an in-
crease in any spot rate, ri, more than offsets an increase in r1. Here ri enters as the ith power,
1/(1  ri)i. Thus, as long as the entire term structure shifts upward an equal amount on
March 2, the value of a forward contract must fall on that date. Conversely, as long as the
entire term structure shifts downward an equal amount on March 2, the value of a forward
contract must rise.
 . . .  $40  1  r1
1  r40 40
 $1,040  1  r1
1  r41 41
PFORW.CONT.  $40  1  r1
1  r2 2
 $40  1  r1
1  r3 3
 $40  1  r1
1  r4 4
 . . . 
$40
1  r40 40 
$1,040
1  r41 41
PFORW.CONT.
1  r1

$40
1  r2 2 
$40
1  r3 3 
$40
1  r4 4
708
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
11We are assuming that each spot rate shifts the same amount. For example, suppose that, on March 1, r1  5%,
r2  5.4%, and r3  5.8%. Assuming that all rates increase by 1/2 percent on March 2, r1 becomes 5.5 percent
(5%  1/2%), r2 becomes 5.9 percent, and r3 becomes 6.3 percent.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
715
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Futures Contracts
The above discussion concerned a forward contract in U.S. Treasury bonds, that is, a for-
ward contract where the deliverable instrument is a U.S. Treasury bond. What about a fu-
tures contract on a Treasury bond?12 We mentioned earlier that futures contracts and for-
ward contracts are quite similar, though there are a few differences between the two. First,
futures contracts are generally traded on exchanges, whereas forward contracts are not
traded on an exchange. In this case, the Treasury-bond futures contract is traded on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Second, futures contracts generally allow the seller a period of
time in which to deliver, whereas forward contracts generally call for delivery on a partic-
ular day. The seller of a Treasury-bond futures contract can choose to deliver on any busi-
ness day during the delivery month.13 Third, futures contracts are subject to the mark-to-
the-market convention, whereas forward contracts are not. Traders in Treasury-bill futures
contracts must adhere to this convention. Fourth, there is generally a liquid market for fu-
tures contracts allowing contracts to be quickly netted out. That is, a buyer can sell his fu-
tures contract at any time, and a seller can buy back her futures contract at any time. Con-
versely, because forward markets are generally quite illiquid, traders cannot easily net out
their positions. The popularity of the Treasury-bond futures contract has produced liquid-
ity even higher than that on other futures contracts. Positions in that contract can be netted
out quite easily.
The above discussion is not intended to be an exhaustive list of differences between the
Treasury-bond forward contract and the Treasury-bond futures contract. Rather, it is in-
tended to show that both contracts share fundamental characteristics. Though there are dif-
ferences, the two instruments should be viewed as variations of the same species, not dif-
ferent species. Thus, the pricing equation of (25.3), which is exact for the forward contract,
should be a decent approximation for the futures contract.
Hedging in Interest-Rate Futures
Now that we have the basic institutional details under our belt, we are ready for examples
of hedging using either futures contracts or forward contracts on Treasury bonds. Because
the T-bond futures contract is extremely popular whereas the forward contract is traded spo-
radically, our examples use the futures contract.
EXAMPLE
Ron Cooke owns a mortgage-banking company. On March 1, he made a commit-
ment to loan a total of $1 million to various homeowners on May 1. The loans are
20-year mortgages carrying a 12-percent coupon, the going interest rate on mort-
gages at the time. Thus, the mortgages are made at par. Though homeowners would
not use the term, we could say that he is buying a forward contract on a mortgage.
That is, he agrees on March 1 to give $1 million to his borrowers on May 1 in ex-
change for principal and interest from them every month for the next 20 years.
Like many mortgage bankers, he has no intention of paying the $1 million out
of his own pocket. Rather, he intends to sell the mortgages to an insurance com-
pany. Thus, the insurance company will actually loan the funds and will receive
principal and interest over the next 20 years. Mr. Cooke does not currently have an
Chapter 25
Derivatives and Hedging Risk
709
12Futures contracts on bonds are also called interest-rate futures contracts.
13Delivery occurs two days after the seller notifies the clearinghouse of her intention to deliver.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
716
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
insurance company in mind. He plans to visit the mortgage departments of insur-
ance companies over the next 60 days to sell the mortgages to one or many of
them. He sets April 30 as a deadline for making the sale because the borrowers ex-
pect the funds on the following day.
Suppose that Mr. Cooke sells the mortgages to the Acme Insurance Co. on
April 15. What price will Acme pay for the bonds?
You may think that the insurance company will obviously pay $1 million for
the loans. However, suppose interest rates have risen above 12 percent by April 15.
The insurance company will buy the mortgage at a discount. For example, suppose
the insurance company agrees to pay only $940,000 for the mortgages. Because
the mortgage banker agreed to loan a full $1 million to the borrowers, the mort-
gage banker must come up with the additional $60,000 ($1 million  $940,000)
out of his own pocket.
Alternatively, suppose that interest rates fall below 12 percent by April 15.
The mortgages can be sold at a premium under this scenario. If the insurance com-
pany buys the mortgages at $1.05 million, the mortgage banker will have made an
unexpected profit of $50,000 ($1.05 million  $1 million).
Because Ron Cooke is unable to forecast interest rates, this risk is something
that he would like to avoid. The risk is summarized in Table 25.4.
Seeing the interest-rate risk, students at this point may ask, “What does the
mortgage banker get out of this loan to offset his risk-bearing?” Mr. Cooke wants
to sell the mortgages to the insurance company so that he can get two fees. The
first is an origination fee, which is paid to the mortgage banker from the insurance
company on April 15, that is, on the date the loan is sold. An industry standard in
certain locales is 1 percent of the value of the loan, that is $10,000 (1%  $1 mil-
lion). In addition, Mr. Cooke will act as a collection agent for the insurance com-
pany. For this service, he will receive a small portion of the outstanding balance
of the loan each month. For example, if he is paid 0.03 percent of the loan each
month, he will receive $300 (0.03%  $1 million) in the first month. As the out-
standing balance of the loan declines, he will receive less.
Though Mr. Cooke will earn profitable fees on the loan, he bears interest-rate
risk. He loses money if interest rates rise after March 1, and he profits if interest
rates fall after March 1. To hedge this risk, he writes June Treasury-bond futures
contracts on March 1. As with mortgages, Treasury-bond futures contracts fall in
value if interest rates rise. Because he writes the contract, he makes money on
710
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
I TABLE 25.4 Effects of Changing Interest Rate on Ron Cooke,
Mortgage Banker
Mortgage interest rate on 
Above 12%
Below 12%
April 15
Sale price to Acme Insurance 
Below $1 million (We 
Above $1 million (We assume
Company
assume $940,000)
$1.05 million)
Effect on mortgage banker
He loses because he must 
He gains because he loans only 
loan full $1 million to 
$1 million to borrowers.
borrowers.
Dollar gain or loss
Loss of $60,000 
Gain of $50,000 
($1 million  $940,000)
($1.05 million  $1 million)
The interest rate on March 1, the date when the loan agreement was made with the borrowers, was 12 percent.
April 15 is the date the mortgages were sold to Acme Insurance Company.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
717
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
these contracts if they fall in value. Therefore, with an interest-rate rise, the loss
he endures in the mortgages is offset by the gain he earns in the futures market.
Conversely, Treasury-bond futures contracts rise in value if interest rates fall. Be-
cause he writes the contracts, he suffers losses on them when rates fall. With an 
interest-rate fall, the profit he makes on the mortgages is offset by the loss he suf-
fers in the futures markets.
The details of this hedging transaction are presented in Table 25.5. The col-
umn on the left is labeled “Cash markets,” because the deal in the mortgage mar-
ket is transacted off an exchange. The column on the right shows the offsetting
transactions in the futures market. Consider the first row. The mortgage banker en-
ters into a forward contract on March 1. He simultaneously writes Treasury-bond
futures contracts. Ten contracts are written because the deliverable instrument on
each contract is $100,000 of Treasury bonds. The total is $1 million (10 
$100,000), which is equal to the value of the mortgages. Mr. Cooke would prefer
to write May Treasury-bond futures contracts. Here, Treasury bonds would be de-
livered on the futures contract during the same month that the loan is funded. Be-
cause there is no May T-bond futures contract, Mr. Cooke achieves the closest
match through a June contract.
If held to maturity, the June contract would obligate the mortgage banker to
deliver Treasury bonds in June. Interest-rate risk ends in the cash market when the
loans are sold. Interest-rate risk must be terminated in the futures market at that
time. Thus, Mr. Cooke nets out his position in the futures contract as soon as the
loan is sold to Acme Insurance.
Chapter 25
Derivatives and Hedging Risk
711
I TABLE 25.5 Illustration of Hedging Strategy for Ron Cooke,
Mortgage Banker
Cash Markets
Futures Markets
March 1
Mortgage banker makes forward 
Mortgage banker writes 10 June 
contracts to loan $1 million at 
Treasury-bond futures contracts.
12 percent for 20 years. The loans
are to be funded on May 1. No 
cash changes hands on March 1.
April 15
Loans are sold to Acme Insurance 
Mortgage banker buys back all  
Company. Mortgage banker will 
the futures contracts.
receive sale price from Acme on
the May 1 funding date.
If interest rates rise:
Loans are sold at a price below 
Each futures contract is bought 
$1 million. Mortgage banker 
back at a price below the sales 
loses because he receives less 
price, resulting in profit.
than the $1 million he must give 
Mortgage banker’s profit in 
to borrowers.
futures market offsets loss in
cash market.
If interest rates fall:
Loans are sold at a price above 
Each futures contract is bought 
$1 million. Mortgage banker 
back at a price above the sales 
gains because he receives more 
price, resulting in loss.
than the $1 million he must give
Mortgage banker’s loss in 
to borrowers.
futures market offsets gain in
cash market.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
718
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Risk is clearly reduced via an offsetting transaction in the futures market. However, is
risk totally eliminated? Risk would be totally eliminated if losses in the cash markets were
exactly offset in the futures markets and vice versa. This is unlikely to happen because mort-
gages and Treasury bonds are not identical instruments. First, mortgages may have differ-
ent maturities than Treasury bonds. Second, Treasury bonds have a different payment
stream than do mortgages. Principal is only paid at maturity on T-bonds, whereas principal
is paid every month on mortgages. Because mortgages pay principal continuously, these in-
struments have a shorter effective time to maturity than do Treasury bonds of equal matu-
rity.14 Third, mortgages have default risk whereas Treasury bonds do not. The term struc-
ture applicable to instruments with default risk may change even when the term structure
for risk-free assets remains constant. Fourth, mortgages may be paid off early and hence
have a shorter expected maturity than Treasury bonds of equal maturity.
Because mortgages and Treasury bonds are not identical instruments, they are not iden-
tically affected by interest rates. If Treasury bonds are less volatile than mortgages, finan-
cial consultants may advise Mr. Cooke to write more than 10 T-bond futures contracts.
Conversely, if these bonds are more volatile, the consultant may state that less than 10 fu-
tures contracts are indicated. An optimal ratio of futures to mortgages will reduce risk as
much as possible. However, because the price movements of mortgages and Treasury bonds
are not perfectly correlated, Mr. Cooke’s hedging strategy cannot eliminate all risk.
The above strategy is called a short hedge because Mr. Cooke sells futures contracts in
order to reduce risk. Though it involves an interest-rate futures contract, this short hedge is
analogous to short hedges in agricultural and metallurgical futures contracts. We argued at
the beginning of this chapter that individuals and firms institute short hedges to offset in-
ventory price fluctuation. Once Mr. Cooke makes a contract to loan money to borrowers,
the mortgages effectively become his inventory. He writes a futures contract to offset the
price fluctuation of his inventory.
We now consider an example where a mortgage banker institutes a long hedge.
EXAMPLE
Margaret Boswell is another mortgage banker. Her firm faces problems similar to
those facing Mr. Cooke’s firm. However, she tackles the problems through the use
of advance commitments, a strategy the opposite of Mr. Cooke’s. That is, she
promises to deliver loans to a financial institution before she lines up borrowers. On
March 1, her firm agreed to sell mortgages to No-State Insurance Co. The agree-
ment specifies that she must turn over 12-percent coupon mortgages with a face
value of $1 million to No-State by May 1. No-State is buying the mortgages at par,
implying that they will pay Ms. Boswell $1 million on May 1. As of March 1, Ms.
Boswell had not signed up any borrowers. Over the next two months, she will seek
out individuals who want mortgages beginning May 1.
As with Mr. Cooke, changing interest rates will affect Ms. Boswell. If inter-
est rates fall before she signs up a borrower, the borrower will demand a premium
on a 12-percent coupon loan. That is, the borrower will receive more than par on
May 1.15 Because Ms. Boswell receives par from the insurance company, she must
make up the difference.
712
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
14Alternatively, we can say that mortgages have shorter duration than do Treasury bonds of equal maturity. A
precise definition of duration is provided later in this chapter.
15Alternatively, the mortgage would still be at par if a coupon rate below 12 percent were used. However, this is
not done since the insurance company only wants to buy 12-percent mortgages.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
719
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Conversely, if interest rates rise, a 12-percent coupon loan will be made at a dis-
count. That is, the borrower will receive less than par on May 1. Because Ms.
Boswell receives par from the insurance company, the difference is pure profit to her.
The details are provided in the left-hand column of Table 25.6. As did Mr.
Cooke, Ms. Boswell finds the risk burdensome. Therefore, she offsets her advance
commitment with a transaction in the futures markets. Because she loses in the
cash market when interest rates fall, she buys futures contracts to reduce the risk.
When interest rates fall, the value of her futures contracts increases. The gain in
the futures market offsets the loss in the cash market. Conversely, she gains in the
cash markets when interest rates rise. The value of her futures contracts decreases
when interest rates rise, offsetting her gain.
We call this a long hedge because Ms. Boswell offsets risk in the cash mar-
kets by buying a futures contract. Though it involves an interest-rate futures con-
tract, this long hedge is analogous to long hedges in agricultural and metallurgical
futures contracts. We argued at the beginning of this chapter that individuals and
firms institute long hedges when their finished goods are to be sold at a fixed price.
Once Ms. Boswell makes the advance commitment with No-State Insurance, she
has fixed her sales price. She buys a futures contract to offset the price fluctuation
of her raw materials, that is, her mortgages.
Chapter 25
Derivatives and Hedging Risk
713
I TABLE 25.6 Illustration of Advance Commitment for 
Margaret Boswell, Mortgage Banker
Cash Markets
Futures Markets
March 1
Mortgage banker makes a forward 
Mortgage banker buys 10 June 
contract (advance commitment) 
Treasury-bond futures contracts.
to deliver $1 million of mortgages 
to No-State Insurance. The 
insurance company will pay par 
to Ms. Boswell for the loans on 
May 1. The borrowers are to 
receive their funding from 
mortgage banker on May 1. The 
mortgages are to be 12-percent 
coupon loans for 20 years.
April 15
Mortgage banker signs up borrowers 
Mortgage banker sells all futures 
to 12-percent coupon, 20-year 
contracts.
mortgages. She promises that the 
borrowers will receive funds on 
May 1.
If interest rates rise:
Mortgage banker issues mortgages to 
Futures contract is sold at a price 
borrowers at a discount. Mortgage 
below purchase price, resulting 
banker gains because she receives 
in loss. Mortgage banker’s loss 
par from insurance company.
in futures market offsets gain in
cash market.
If interest rates fall:
Loans to borrowers are issued at a 
Futures contract is sold at a price 
premium. Mortgage banker loses
above purchase price, resulting 
because she receives only par 
in gain. Mortgage banker’s gain 
from insurance company.
in futures market offsets loss in
cash market.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
720
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
• How are forward contracts on bonds priced?
• What are the differences between forward contracts on bonds and futures contracts on bonds?
• Give examples of hedging with futures contracts on bonds.
25.5 DURATION HEDGING
The last section concerned the risk of interest-rate changes. We now want to explore this
risk in a more precise manner. In particular, we want to show that the concept of duration
is a prime determinant of interest-rate risk. We begin by considering the effect of interest-
rate movements on bond prices.
The Case of Zero-Coupon Bonds
Imagine a world where the interest rate is 10 percent across all maturities. A one-year pure
discount bond pays $110 at maturity. A five-year pure discount bond pays $161.05 at ma-
turity. Both of these bonds are worth $100, as given by16
Value of One-Year Pure Discount Bond:
Value of Five-Year Pure Discount Bond:
Which bond will change more when interest rates move? To find out, we calculate the value of
these bonds when interest rates are either 8 or 12 percent. The results are presented in Table 25.7.
As can be seen, the five-year bond has greater price swings than does the one-year bond. That
is, both bonds are worth $100 when interest rates are 10 percent. The five-year bond is worth
more than the one-year bond when interest rates are 8 percent and worth less than the one-year
bond when interest rates are 12 percent. We state that the five-year bond is subject to more price
volatility. This point, which was mentioned in passing in an earlier section of the chapter, is not
difficult to understand. The interest-rate term in the denominator,1 r,is taken to the fifth power
for a five-year bond and only to the first power for the one-year bond. Thus, the effect of a chang-
ing interest rate is magnified for the five-year bond. The general rule is
The percentage price changes in long-term pure discount bonds are greater than the percentage
price changes in short-term pure discount bonds.
The Case of Two Bonds with the Same Maturity 
but with Different Coupons
The previous example concerned pure discount bonds of different maturities. We now want
to see the effect of different coupons on price volatility. To abstract from the effect of dif-
fering maturities, we consider two bonds with the same maturity but with different coupons.
$100  $161.05
1.10 5
$100  $110
1.10
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?
714
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
16Alternatively, we could have chosen bonds that pay $100 at maturity. Their values would be $90.91
($100/1.10) and $62.09 [$100/(1.10)5]. However, our comparisons to come are made easier if both have the
same initial price.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
721
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Consider a five-year, 10-percent coupon bond and a five-year, 1-percent coupon bond.
When interest rates are 10 percent, the bonds are priced at
Value of Five-Year, 10-Percent Coupon Bond:
Value of Five-Year, 1-Percent Coupon Bond:
Which bond will change more in percentage terms if interest rates change?17 To find out,
we first calculate the value of these bonds when interest rates are either 8 or 12 percent. The
results are presented in Table 25.8. As we would expect, the 10-percent coupon bond al-
ways sells for more than the 1-percent coupon bond. Also, as we would expect, each bond
is worth more when the interest rate is 8 percent than when the interest rate is 12 percent.
We calculate percentage price changes for both bonds as the interest rate changes from
10 to 8 percent and from 10 to 12 percent. These percentage price changes are
10% Coupon Bond
1% Coupon Bond
Interest rate changes from 10% to 8%:
Interest rate changes from 10% to 12%:
As can be seen, the 1-percent coupon bond has a greater percentage price increase than
does the 10-percent coupon bond when the interest rate falls. Similarly, the 1-percent coupon
bond has a greater percentage price decrease than does the 10-percent coupon bond when
the interest rate rises. Thus, we say that the percentage price changes on the 1-percent coupon
bond are greater than are the percentage price changes on the 10-percent coupon bond.
 8.39%  $60.35
$65.88  1
 7.21%  $92.79
$100  1
9.37%  $72.05
$65.88  1
7.99%  $107.99
$100
 1
$65.88  $1
1.10 
$1
1.10 2 
$1
1.10 3 
$1
1.10 4  $101
1.10 5
$100  $10
1.10 
$10
1.10 2 
$10
1.10 3 
$10
1.10 4  $110
1.10 5
Chapter 25
Derivatives and Hedging Risk
715
I TABLE 25.7 Value of a Pure Discount Bond as a Function 
of Interest Rate
Interest
One-Year
Five-Year
Rate
Pure Discount Bond
Pure Discount Bond
8%
10%
12%
For a given interest rate change, a five-year pure discount bond fluctuates more in price than does a one-year
pure discount bond.
$91.38  $161.05
1.12 5
98.21  $110
1.12
$100.00  $161.05
1.10 5
$100.00  $110
1.10
$109.61  $161.05
1.08 5
$101.85  $110
1.08
17The bonds are at different prices initially. Thus, we are concerned with percentage price changes, not absolute
price changes.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
722
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Duration
The question, of course, is “Why?” We can answer this question only after we have explored
a concept called duration. We begin by noticing that any coupon bond is actually a com-
bination of pure discount bonds. For example, the five-year, 10-percent coupon bond is
made up of five pure discount bonds:
1. A pure discount bond paying $10 at the end of year 1.
2. A pure discount bond paying $10 at the end of year 2.
3. A pure discount bond paying $10 at the end of year 3.
4. A pure discount bond paying $10 at the end of year 4.
5. A pure discount bond paying $110 at the end of year 5.
Similarly, the five-year, 1-percent coupon bond is made up of five pure discount bonds. Be-
cause the price volatility of a pure discount bond is determined by its maturity, we would
like to determine the average maturity of the five pure discount bonds that make up a five-
year coupon bond. This leads us to the concept of duration.
We calculate average maturity in three steps. For the 10-percent coupon bond, we
have these:
1. Calculate Present Value of Each Payment. We do this as
Present Value
of Payment by
Year
Payment
Discounting at 10%
1
$ 10
$
9.091
2
10
8.264
3
10
7.513
4
10
6.830
5
110
68.302
________
$100.00
716
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
I TABLE 25.8 Value of Coupon Bonds at Different Interest Rates
Interest Rate
Five-Year, 10% Coupon Bond
8%
10%
12%
Interest Rate
Five-Year, 1% Coupon Bond
8%
10%
12%
$60.35  $1
1.12 
$1
1.12 2 
$1
1.12 3 
$1
1.12 4  $101
1.12 5
$65.88  $1
1.10 
$1
1.10 2 
$1
1.10 3 
$1
1.10 4  $101
1.10 5
$72.05  $1
1.08 
$1
1.08 2 
$1
1.08 3 
$1
1.08 4  $101
1.08 5
92.79  $10
1.12 
$10
1.12 2 
$10
1.12 3 
$10
1.12 4  $110
1.12 5
$100.00  $10
1.10 
$10
1.10 2 
$10
1.10 3 
$10
1.10 4  $110
1.10 5
$107.99  $10
1.08 
$10
1.08 2 
$10
1.08 3 
$10
$1.08 4  $110
1.08 5

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
723
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
2. Express the Present Value of Each Payment in Relative Terms. We calculate the rel-
ative value of a single payment as the ratio of the present value of the payment to the value
of the bond. The value of the bond is $100. We have
Present Value
Year
Payment
of Payment
1
$ 10
$
9.091
$9.091/$100  0.09091
2
10
8.264
0.08264
3
10
7.513
0.07513
4
10
6.830
0.06830
5
110
68.302
0.68302
________
_______
$100.00
1.0
The bulk of the relative value, 68.302 percent, occurs at year 5 because the principal is paid
back at that time.
3. Weight the Maturity of Each Payment by Its Relative Value. We have
4.1699 years  1 year  0.09091  2 years  0.08264  3 years 
 0.07513  4 years  0.06830  5 years  0.68302
There are many ways to calculate the average maturity of a bond. We have calculated it by
weighting the maturity of each payment by the payment’s present value. We find that the
effective maturity of the bond is 4.1699 years. Duration is a commonly used word for ef-
fective maturity. Thus, the bond’s duration is 4.1699 years. Note that duration is expressed
in units of time.18
Because the five-year, 10-percent coupon bond has a duration of 4.1699 years, its per-
centage price fluctuations should be the same as those of a zero-coupon bond with a du-
ration of 4.1699 years.19 It turns out that the five-year, 1-percent coupon bond has a dura-
tion of 4.8742 years. Because the 1-percent coupon bond has a higher duration than the
10-percent bond, the 1-percent coupon bond should be subject to greater price fluctua-
tions. This is exactly what we found earlier. In general, we say:
The percentage price changes of a bond with high duration are greater than the percentage
price changes of a bond with low duration.
A final question: Why does the 1-percent bond have a greater duration than the 10-per-
cent bond, even though they both have the same five-year maturity? As mentioned earlier,
duration is an average of the maturity of the bond’s cash flows, weighted by the present
Relative Value  Present Value of Payment
Value of Bond
Chapter 25
Derivatives and Hedging Risk
717
18The mathematical formula for duration is
and
PV  PV(C1)  PV(C2)  . . .  PV(CT)
where CT is the cash to be received in time T and r is the current discount rate.
Also note that in the above numerical example we discounted each payment by the interest rate of 10
percent. This was done because we wanted to calculate the duration of the bond before a change in the interest
rate occurred. After a change in the rate to, say, 8 or 12 percent, all three of our steps would need to reflect the
new interest rate. In other words, the duration of a bond is a function of the current interest rate.
19Actually, this relationship only exactly holds in the case of a one-time shift in a flat yield curve, where the
change in the spot rate is identical for all different maturities.
PVCT 
CT
1  r T
Duration  PVC11  PVC22  . . .  PVCTT
PV

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
724
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
value of each cash flow. The 1-percent coupon bond receives only $1 in each of the first
four years. Thus, the weights applied to years 1 through 4 in the duration formula will be
low. Conversely, the 10-percent coupon bond receives $10 in each of the first four years.
The weights applied to years 1 through 4 in the duration formula will be higher.
Matching Liabilities with Assets
Earlier in this chapter we argued that firms can hedge risk by trading in futures. Because
some firms are subject to interest-rate risk, we showed how they can hedge with interest-
rate futures contracts. Firms may also hedge interest-rate risk by matching liabilities with
assets. This ability to hedge follows from our discussion of duration.
EXAMPLE
The Physical Bank of New York has the following market-value balance sheet:
PHYSICAL BANK OF NEW YORK
Market-Value Balance Sheet
Market Value
Duration
Assets
Overnight money
$
35 million
0
Accounts-receivable–backed loans
500 million
3 months
Inventory loans
275 million
6 months
Industrial loans
40 million
2 years
Mortgages
150 million
14.8 years
____________
$1,000 million
____________
____________
Liabilities and Owners’ Equity
Checking and savings accounts
$ 400 million
0
Certificates of deposit
300 million
1 year
Long-term financing
200 million
10 years
Equity
100 million
____________
$1,000 million
____________
____________
The bank has $1,000 million of assets and $900 million of liabilities. Its equity is
the difference between the two: $100 million ($1,000 million  $900 million).
Both the market value and the duration of each individual item is provided in the
balance sheet. Both overnight money and checking and savings accounts have a
duration of zero. This is because the interest paid on these instruments adjusts im-
mediately to changing interest rates in the economy.
The bank’s managers think that interest rates are likely to move quickly in the
coming months. Because they do not know the direction of the movement, they are
worried that their bank is vulnerable to changing rates. They call in a consultant,
James Charest, to determine hedging strategy.
Mr. Charest first calculates the duration of the assets and the duration of the
liabilities.20
718
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
20Note that the duration of a group of items is an average of the duration of the individual items, weighted by
the market value of each item. This is a simplifying step that greatly increases duration’s practicality.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
725
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Duration of Assets:
(25.4)
Duration of Liabilities:
(25.5)
The duration of the assets, 2.56 years, equals the duration of the liabilities. 
Because of this, Mr. Charest argues that the firm is immune to interest-rate
risk.
Just to be on the safe side, the bank calls in a second consultant, Gail Ellert.
Ms. Ellert argues that it is incorrect to simply match durations, because assets to-
tal $1,000 million and liabilities total only $900 million. If both assets and liabil-
ities have the same duration, the price change on a dollar of assets should be equal
to the price change on a dollar of liabilities. However, the total price change will
be greater for assets than for liabilities, because there are more assets than liabili-
ties in this bank. The firm will be immune from interest-rate risk only when the
duration of the liabilities is greater than the duration of the assets. Ms. Ellert states
that the following relationship must hold if the bank is to be immunized, that is,
immune to interest-rate risk:
(25.6)
She says that the bank should not equate the duration of the liabilities with the du-
ration of the assets. Rather, using equation (25.6), the bank should match the 
duration of the liabilities to the duration of the assets. She suggests two ways to
achieve this match.
1. Increase the Duration of the Liabilities without Changing the Duration
of the Assets. Ms. Ellert argues that the duration of the liabilities could be 
increased to
 2.84 years
Equation (25.5) then becomes:
2.56  $1 billion  2.84  $900 million
 2.56 years  $1,000 million
$900 million
Duration of assets 
Market value of assets
Market value of liabilities
Duration of
assets
 Market value of
assets
 Duration of
liabilities  Market value
of liabilities
  10 years  $200 million
$900 million
 2.56  0 years  $400 million
$900 million  1 year  $300 million
$900 million
  14.8 years  $150 million
$1,000 million
  1⁄2 year  $275 million
$1,000 million  2 years 
$40 million
$1,000 million
 2.56 years  0 years 
$35 million
$1,000 million  1⁄4 year  $500 million
$1,000 million
Chapter 25
Derivatives and Hedging Risk
719

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
726
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
2. Decrease the Duration of the Assets without Changing the Duration of the
Liabilities. Alternatively, Ms. Ellert points out that the duration of the assets could
be decreased to
 2.30 years
Equation (25.6) then becomes:
2.30  $1 billion  2.56  $900 million
Though we agree with Ms. Ellert’s analysis, the bank’s current mismatch was small
anyway. Huge mismatches have occurred for real-world financial institutions, particularly
savings and loans. S&Ls have frequently invested large portions of their assets in mort-
gages. The durations of these mortgages would clearly be above 10 years. Much of the
funds available for mortgage lending were financed by short-term credit, especially savings
accounts. As we mentioned, the duration of such instruments is quite small. A thrift insti-
tution in this situation faces a large amount of interest-rate risk, because any increase in in-
terest rates would greatly reduce the value of the mortgages. Because an interest-rate rise
would only reduce the value of the liabilities slightly, the equity of the firm would fall. As
interest rates rose over much of the 1960s and the 1970s, many S&Ls found that the mar-
ket value of their equity approached zero.21
Duration and the accompanying immunization strategies are useful in other areas of fi-
nance. For example, many firms establish pension funds to meet obligations to retirees. If
the assets of a pension fund are invested in bonds and other fixed-income securities, the du-
ration of the assets can be computed. Similarly, the firm views the obligations to retirees as
analogous to interest payments on debt. The duration of these liabilities can be calculated
as well. The manager of a pension fund would commonly choose pension assets so that the
duration of the assets is matched with the duration of the liabilities. In this way, changing
interest rates would not affect the net worth of the pension fund.
Life insurance companies receiving premiums today are legally obligated to provide
death benefits in the future. Actuaries view these future benefits as analogous to interest and
principal payments of fixed-income securities. The duration of these expected benefits can
be calculated. Insurance firms frequently invest in bonds where the duration of the bonds is
matched to the duration of the future death benefits.
The business of a leasing company is quite simple. The firm issues debt to purchase as-
sets, which are then leased. The lease payments have a duration, as does the debt. Leasing
companies frequently structure debt financing so that the duration of the debt matches the
duration of the lease. If the firm did not do this, the market value of its equity could be elim-
inated by a quick change in interest rates.
• What is duration?
• How is the concept of duration used to reduce interest-rate risk?
 2.56 years  $900 million
$1,000 million
Duration of liabilities  Market value of liabilities
Market value of assets
720
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
21Actually, the market value of the equity could easily be negative in this example. However, S&Ls in the real
world have an asset not shown on our market-value balance sheet: the ability to generate new, profitable loans. This
should increase the market value of a thrift above the market value of its outstanding loans less its existing debt.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
727
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
25.6 SWAPS CONTRACTS
Swaps are close cousins to forwards and futures contracts. Swaps are arrangements be-
tween two counterparts to exchange cash flows over time. There is enormous flexibility in
the forms that swaps can take, but the two basic types are interest-rate swaps or currency
swaps. Often these are combined when interest received in one currency is swapped for in-
terest in another currency.
Interest-Rate Swaps
Like other derivatives, swaps are tools that firms can use to easily change their risk exposures
and their balance sheets.22 Consider a firm that has borrowed and carried on its books an ob-
ligation to repay a 10-year loan for $100 million of principal with a 9-percent coupon rate paid
annually. Ignoring the possibility of calling the loan, the firm expects to have to pay coupons
of $9 million every year for 10 years and a balloon payment of $100 million at the end of the
10 years. Suppose, though, that the firm is uncomfortable with having this large fixed obliga-
tion on its books. Perhaps the firm is in a cyclical business where its revenues vary and could,
conceivably, fall to a point where it would be difficult to make the debt payment.
Suppose, too, that the firm earns a lot of its revenue from financing the purchase of its
products. Typically, for example, a manufacturer might help its customers finance their pur-
chase of its products through a leasing or credit subsidiary. Usually these loans are for rel-
atively short time periods and are financed at some premium over the prevailing short-term
rate of interest. This puts the firm in the position of having revenues that move up and down
with interest rates while its costs are relatively fixed.
This is a classic situation where a swap can be used to offset the risk. When interest
rates rise, the firm would have to pay more on the loan, but it would be making more on its
product financing. What the firm would really prefer is to have a floating-rate loan rather
than a fixed-rate loan. It can use a swap to accomplish this.
Of course, the firm could also just go into the capital markets and borrow $100 million
at a variable interest rate and then use the proceeds to retire its outstanding fixed-rate loan.
While this is possible, it is generally quite expensive, requiring underwriting a new loan and
the repurchase of the existing loan. The ease of entering into a swap is its inherent advantage.
The particular swap would be one that exchanged its fixed obligation for an agreement
to pay a floating rate. Every six months it would agree to pay a coupon based on whatever
the prevailing interest rate was at the time in exchange for an agreement from a counter-
party to pay the firm’s fixed coupon.
A common reference point for floating-rate commitments is called LIBOR. LIBOR
stands for the London Interbank Offered Rate, and it is the rate that most international banks
charge one another for dollar-denominated loans in the London market. LIBOR is com-
monly used as the reference rate for a floating-rate commitment, and, depending on the
creditworthiness of the borrower, the rate can vary from LIBOR to LIBOR plus one point
or more over LIBOR.
If we assume that our firm has a credit rating that requires it to pay LIBOR plus 50 basis
points, then in a swap it would be exchanging its fixed 9-percent obligation for the obligation
to pay whatever the prevailing LIBOR rate is plus 50 basis points. Figure 25.2 displays how
the cash flows on this swap would work. In the figure we have assumed that LIBOR starts at
8 percent and rises for four years to 11 percent and then drops to 7 percent. As the figure 
Chapter 25
Derivatives and Hedging Risk
721
22Under current accounting rules, most derivatives do not usually show up on firms’ balance sheets since they
do not have an historical cost (i.e., the amount a dealer would pay on the initial transaction day).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
728
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
illustrates, the firm would owe a coupon of 8.5%  $100 million  $8.5 million in year 1,
$9.5 million in year 2, $10.5 million in year 3, and $11.5 million in year 4. The precipitous
drop to 7 percent lowers the annual payments to $7.5 million thereafter. In return, the firm re-
ceives the fixed payment of $9 million each year. Actually, rather than swapping the full pay-
ments, the cash flows would be netted. Since the firm is paying variable and receiving fixed—
which it uses to pay its lender—in the first year, for example, the firm owes $8.5 million and
is owed by its counterparty, who is paying fixed, $9 million. Hence, net, the firm would re-
ceive a payment of $.5 million. Since the firm has to pay its lender $9 million, but gets a net
payment from the swap of $.5 million, it really only pays out the difference, or $8.5 million.
In each year, then, the firm would effectively pay only LIBOR plus 50 basis points.
Notice, too, that the entire transaction can be carried out without any need to change
the terms of the original loan. In effect, by swapping, the firm has found a counterparty who
is willing to pay its fixed obligation in return for the firm paying a floating obligation.
Currency Swaps
FX stands for foreign exchange, and currency swaps are sometimes called FX swaps. Cur-
rency swaps are swaps of obligations to pay cash flows in one currency for obligations to
pay in another currency.
Currency swaps arise as a natural vehicle for hedging the risk in international trade. For
example, suppose a U.S. firm sells a broad range of its product line in the German market.
Every year the firm can count on receiving revenue from Germany in the German currency,
Deutschemarks, or DM for short. We will study international finance later in this book, but
for now we can just observe that, because exchange rates fluctuate, this subjects the firm to
considerable risk.
If the firm produces its products in the United States and exports them to Germany, then
the firm has to pay its workers and its suppliers in dollars. But, it is receiving some of its
revenues in DM. The exchange rate between $ and DM changes over time. As the DM rises
in value, the German revenues are worth more $, but as it falls they decline. Suppose that
the firm can count on selling 100 million DM of goods each year in Germany. If the ex-
change rate is 2 DM for each $, then the firm will receive $50 million. But, if the exchange
rate were to rise to 3 DM for each $, the firm would only receive $33.333 million for its 100
million DM. Naturally the firm would like to protect itself against these currency swings.
To do so the firm can enter into a currency swap. We will learn more about exactly what
the terms of such a swap might be, but for now we can assume that the swap is for five years
at a fixed term of 100 million DM for $50 million each year. Now, no matter what happens
722
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
I FIGURE 25.2 Fixed-for-Floating a Swap: Cash Flows ($ million)
Coupons
Year
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
A. Swap
Fixed obligation
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
LIBOR floating
8.5
9.5
10.5
11.5
7.5
7.5
7.5
7.5
7.5
7.5
7.5
B. Original Loan
Fixed obligation
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
109
Net effect
8.5
9.5
10.5
11.5
7.5
7.5
7.5
7.5
7.5
7.5
107.5

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
729
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
to the exchange rate between DM and $ over the next five years, as long as the firm makes
100 million DM each year from the sale of its products, it will swap this for $50 million
each year.
We have not addressed the question of how the market sets prices for swaps, either
interest-rate swaps or currency swaps. In the fixed-for-floating example and in the cur-
rency swap, we just quoted some terms. We won’t go into great detail on exactly how it
is done, but we can stress the most important points.
Swaps, like forwards and futures, are essentially zero-sum transactions, which is to say
that in both cases the market sets prices at a fair level, and neither party has any substantial
bargain or loss at the moment the deal is struck. For example, in the currency swap, the swap
rate is some average of the market expectation of what the exchange rate will be over the
life of the swap. In the interest-rate swap, the rates are set as the fair floating and fixed rates
for the creditor, taking into account the creditworthiness of the counterparties. We can ac-
tually price swaps fairly once we know how to price forward contracts. In our interest-rate
swap example, the firm swapped LIBOR plus 50 basis points for a 9-percent fixed rate, all
on a principal amount of $100 million. This is equivalent to a series of forward contracts
extending out the life of the swap. In year 1, for example, having made the swap, the firm
is in the same position that it would be if it had sold a forward contract entitling the buyer
to receive LIBOR plus 50 basis points on $100 million in return for a fixed payment of $9
million (9 percent on $100 million). Similarly, the currency swap can also be viewed as a
series of forward contracts.
• Show that a currency swap is equivalent to a series of forward contracts.
Exotics
Up to now we have dealt with the meat and potatoes of the derivatives markets, swaps, op-
tions, forwards, and futures. Exotics are the complicated blends of these that often produce
the surprising results for the buyers.
One of the more interesting types of exotics is called an inverse floater. In our fixed-
for-floating swap, the floating payments fluctuated with LIBOR. An inverse floater is one
that fluctuates inversely with some rate such as LIBOR. For example, the floater might pay
an interest rate of 20 percent minus LIBOR. IF LIBOR is 9 percent, then the inverse pays
11 percent, and if LIBOR rises to 12 percent, the payments on the inverse would fall to 8
percent. Clearly the purchaser of an inverse profits from the inverse if interest rates fall.
Both floaters and inverse floaters have a supercharged version called superfloaters and
superinverses that fluctuate more than one for one with movements in interest rates. As an
example of a superinverse floater, consider a floater that pays an interest rate of 30 percent
minus twice LIBOR. When LIBOR is 10 percent, the inverse pays
30%  2  10%  30%  20%  10%
and if LIBOR falls by 3 percent to 7 percent, then the return on the inverse rises by 6 per-
cent from 10 percent to 16 percent,
30%  2  7%  30%  14%  16%
Sometimes derivatives are combined with options to bound the impact of interest rates. The
most important of these instruments are called caps and floors. A cap is so named because
it puts an upper limit or a cap on the impact of a rise in interest rates. A floor, conversely,
provides a floor below which the interest rate impact is insulated.
Chapter 25
Derivatives and Hedging Risk
723
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
730
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
To illustrate the impact of these, consider a firm that is borrowing short-term and is
concerned that interest rates might rise. For example, using LIBOR as the reference inter-
est rate, the firm might purchase a 7 percent cap. The cap pays the firm the difference be-
tween LIBOR and 7 percent on some principal amount, provided that LIBOR is greater than
7 percent. As long as LIBOR is below 7 percent, the holder of the cap receives no payments.
By purchasing the cap the firm has assured itself that even if interest rates rise above 7 per-
cent, it will not have to pay more than a 7 percent rate. Suppose that interest rates rise to 9 per-
cent. While the firm is borrowing short-term and paying 9 percent rates, this is offset by the cap,
which is paying the firm the difference between 9 percent and the 7 percent limit. For any LI-
BOR rate above 7 percent, the firm receives the difference between LIBOR and 7 percent, and,
as a consequence, it has capped its cost of borrowing at 7 percent.
On the other side, consider a financial firm that is in the business of lending short-term
and is concerned that interest rates—and, consequently, its revenues—might fall. The firm
could purchase a floor to protect itself from such declines. If the limit on the floor is 7 per-
cent, then the floor pays the difference between 7 percent and LIBOR whenever LIBOR is
below 7 percent, and nothing if LIBOR is above 7 percent. Thus, if interest rates were to
fall to, say, 5 percent while the firm is only receiving 5 percent from its lending activities,
the floor is paying it the difference between 7 percent and 5 percent, or an additional 2 per-
cent. By purchasing the floor, the firm has assured itself of receiving no less than 7 percent
from the combination of the floor and its lending activities.
We have only scratched the surface of what is available in the world of derivatives.
Derivatives are designed to meet marketplace needs, and the only binding limitation is the
human imagination. Nowhere should the buyer’s warning caveat emptor be taken more se-
riously than in the derivatives markets, and this is especially true for the exotics. If swaps
are the meat and potatoes of the derivatives markets, then caps and floors are the meat and
potatoes of the exotics. As we have seen, they have obvious value as hedging instruments.
But, much attention has been focused on truly exotic derivatives, some of which appear to
have arisen more as the residuals that were left over from more straightforward deals. We
won’t examine these in any detail, but suffice it to say that some of these are so volatile and
unpredictable that market participants have dubbed them “toxic waste.”
25.7 ACTUAL USE OF DERIVATIVES
Because derivatives do not usually appear in financial statements, it is much more difficult
to observe the use of derivatives by firms when compared to, say, bank debt. Much of our
knowledge of corporate derivative use comes from academic surveys. Most surveys report
that the use of derivatives appears to vary widespread among large publically traded firms.
It appears that about one-half of all publically traded nonfinancial firms use derivatives of
some kind.23 Large firms are far more likely to use derivatives than small firms. Table 25.9
shows that for firms that use derivatives, foreign-currency and interest-rate derivatives are
the most frequently used.24
724
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance
23Gordon M. Bodnar, Gregory S. Hayt, and Richard Marston, “1998 Wharton Survey of Finance Risk
Management by U.S. Non-Financial Firms,” Financial Management (Winter 1998).
24Howton and Perfect report that interest rate derivatives are the most frequently used derivatives. Shawn D.
Howton and Steven B. Perfect, “Currency and Interest-Rate Derivatives Use in U.S. Firms,” Financial
Management (Winter 1998).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
731
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The prevailing view is that derivatives can be very helpful in reducing the variability
of firm cash flows, which, in turn, reduces the various costs associated with financial dis-
tress. Therefore, it is somewhat puzzling that large firms use derivatives more often than
small firms—because large firms tend to have less cash flow variability than small firms.
Also some surveys report that firms occasionally use derivatives when they want to specu-
late about future prices and not just to hedge risks.25
However, most of the evidence is consistent with the theory that derivatives are most
frequently used by firms where financial distress costs are high and access to the capital
markets is constrained.26
25.8 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1. Firms hedge to reduce risk. This chapter shows a number of hedging strategies.
2. A forward contract is an agreement by two parties to sell an item for cash at a later date. The
price is set at the time the agreement is signed. However, cash changes hands on the date of
delivery. Forward contracts are generally not traded on organized exchanges.
3. Futures contracts are also agreements for future delivery. They have certain advantages, such
as liquidity, that forward contracts do not. An unusual feature of futures contracts is the
mark-to-the-market convention. If the price of a futures contract falls on a particular day,
every buyer of the contract must pay money to the clearinghouse. Every seller of the contract
receives money from the clearinghouse. Everything is reversed if the price rises. The mark-
to-the-market convention prevents defaults on futures contracts.
4. We divided hedges into two types: short hedges and long hedges. An individual or firm that
sells a futures contract to reduce risk is instituting a short hedge. Short hedges are generally
appropriate for holders of inventory. An individual or firm that buys a futures contract to
Chapter 25
Derivatives and Hedging Risk
725
I TABLE 25.9 Derivative Usage by Firms Using Derivatives
Exposure Managed
Exposure Not Managed
with Derivatives
with Derivatives
Foreign exchange
88%
12%
Interest rate
77%
23%
Commodity
55%
45%
Equity
30%
70%
Source: Gordon M. Bodnar, Gregory S. Hayt, and Richard Marston, “1998 Wharton Survey of Financial Risk
Management of U.S. Non-Financial Firms,” Financial Management (Winter 1998). Survey included 400 firms;
50 percent of the firms reported using derivatives.
25Walter Dolde, “The Trajectory of Corporate Financial Risk Management,” Journal of Applied Corporate
Finance (Fall 1993).
26Shawn D. Howton and Steven B. Perfect, “Currency and Interest-Rate Derivatives Use in U.S. Firms,”
Financial Management (Winter 1998). See also H. Berkman and M. E. Bradbury, “Empirical Evidence on the
Corporate Use of Derivatives,” Financial Management (Summer 1996).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
732
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
reduce risk is instituting a long hedge. Long hedges are typically used by firms with contracts
to sell finished goods at a fixed price.
5. An interest-rate futures contract employs a bond as the deliverable instrument. Because of
their popularity, we worked with Treasury-bond futures contracts. We showed that Treasury-
bond futures contracts can be priced using the same type of net-present-value analysis that is
used to price Treasury bonds themselves.
6. Many firms are faced with interest-rate risk. They can reduce this risk by hedging with interest-
rate futures contracts. As with other commodities, a short hedge involves the sale of a futures
contract. Firms that are committed to buying mortgages or other bonds are likely to institute
short hedges. A long hedge involves the purchase of a futures contract. Firms that have agreed
to sell mortgages or other bonds at a fixed price are likely to institute long hedges.
7. Duration measures the average maturity of all the cash flows in a bond. Bonds with high
duration have high price variability. Firms frequently try to match the duration of their assets
with the duration of their liabilities.
8. Swaps are agreements to exchange cash flows over time. The first major type is an interest-
rate swap in which one pattern of coupon payments, say, fixed payments, is exchanged for
another, say, coupons that float with LIBOR. The second major type is a currency swap in
which an agreement is struck to swap payments denominated in one currency for payments
in another currency over time.
KEY TERMS
Advance commitments
712
Immunized
719
Cash transaction
697
Interest-rate swaps
721
Currency swaps
721
Long hedge
704
Deliverable instrument
696
Making delivery
696
Duration
716
Marked to the market
698
Exotics
723
Short hedge
703
Forward contract
696
Speculating
696
Futures contract
697
Swaps
721
Hedging
696
Taking delivery
696
SUGGESTED READINGS
Several cases that illustrate the concepts, tools, and markets for hedging can be found in
Tufano, Peter. “How Financial Engineering Can Advance Corporate Strategy.” Harvard
Business Review (January–February 1996).
An advanced article on the empirical implications of very recent models for pricing swaps
contracts is in
Minton, Bernadette A. “An Empirical Examination of Basic Valuation Models for Plain Vanilla
U.S. Interest Rate Swaps.” Journal of Financial Economics 44 (Winter 1997).
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Futures and Forward Contracts
25.1 Define:
a. Forward contract
b. Futures contract
25.2 Explain the three ways in which futures contracts and forward contracts differ.
726
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
733
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
25.3 The following table lists the closing prices for wheat futures contracts. Suppose you
bought one contract at $5.00 at the opening of trade on March 15.
March 15
$5.03
March 16
$5.08
March 17
$5.12
March 18
$5.10
March 19
$4.98
a. Suppose that on March 18 you receive from your broker a notice of delivery on that day.
i. What is the delivery price?
ii. What price did you pay for wheat?
iii. List the cash flows associated with this contract.
b. Suppose that on March 19 you receive from your broker a notice of delivery on that day.
i. What is the delivery price?
ii. What price did you pay for wheat?
iii. List the cash flows associated with this contract.
25.4 Two days ago, you agreed to buy a 10-year, zero-coupon bond that would be issued in a
year. Today, both the 1-year and 11-year spot rates unexpectedly shifted downward an
equal amount. What should today’s price of the forward contract be?
25.5 a. How is a short hedge created?
b. In what type of situation is a short hedge a wise strategy?
c. How is a long hedge created?
d. In what type of situation is a long hedge a wise strategy?
25.6 A speculator is an investor who uses his or her private information to profit from futures
contracts. Mary Johnson is a speculator, who believes that wheat futures prices will fall in
a month. What position would Mary Johnson take?
25.7 A classmate of yours recently entered the import/export business. During a visit with him
last week, he said to you, “If you play the game right, this is the safest business in the
world. By hedging all my transactions in the foreign-exchange futures market, I eliminate
all risk.”
Do you agree with your friend’s assessment of hedging? Why or why not?
25.8 This morning you agreed to buy a two-year Treasury bond six months from today. The
bond carries a 10-percent coupon rate and has a $1,000 face. Below are listed the expected
spot rates of interest for the life of the bond. These rates are semiannual rates.
Time from Today
Semiannual Rate
6 months
0.048
12 months
0.050
18 months
0.052
24 months
0.055
30 months
0.057
a. How much should you have paid for this forward contract?
b. Suppose that shortly after you purchased the forward contract, all semiannual rates
increased 30 basis points; that is, the six-month rate increased from 0.048 to 0.051.
i. State what you expect will happen to the value of the forward contract.
ii. What is the value of the forward contract?
25.9 Derive the relationship between the spot price (S0) and the futures price (F) by comparing
the following two strategies:
Strategy 1: Buy the silver at S0 today and hold it for one month.
Strategy 2: Take a long position on the silver futures contract expiring in one month.
Lend money that will be equal to the futures price in one month. The lending rate for
the period is the risk-free rate, rf.
Chapter 25
Derivatives and Hedging Risk
727

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
734
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
25.10 Aiko Miyazawa is a Japanese student who is planning a one-year stay in America for
studying English. She expects to leave for America in eight months. Since she is worried
about the unstable exchange rates, she has decided to lock in the current exchange rates.
What should Aiko’s hedging position be?
25.11 After reading the text’s example about Ron Cooke, the mortgage banker, you decide to
enter the business. You begin small; you agree to provide $300,000 to an old college
roommate to finance the purchase of her home. The loan is a 20-year loan and has a 10-
percent interest rate. Ten percent is the current market rate of interest. For ease of
computation, assume the mortgage payments are made annually. Your former roommate
needs the money four months from today. You do not have $300,000, but you intend to
sell the mortgage to MAX Insurance Corp. The president of MAX is also an old friend,
so you know with certainty that he will buy the mortgage. Unfortunately, he is
unavailable to meet with you until three months from today.
a. What is your former roommate’s mortgage payment?
b. What is the most significant risk you face in this deal?
c. How can you hedge this risk?
25.12 Refer to question 25.11. There are four-month T-bond futures available. A single contract
is for $100,000 of T-bonds.
a. Suppose that between today and your meeting with the president of MAX, the market
rate of interest rises to 12 percent.
i. How much is MAX’s president willing to pay you for the mortgage?
ii. What will happen to the value of the T-bond futures contract?
iii. What is your net gain or loss if you wrote a futures contract?
b. Suppose that between today and your meeting with the president of MAX, the market
rate of interest falls to 9 percent.
i. How much is MAX’s president willing to pay you for the mortgage?
ii. What will happen to the value of the T-bond futures contract?
iii. What is your net gain or loss if you wrote a futures contract?
Duration
25.13 Available are three zero-coupon, $1,000 face-value bonds. All of these bonds are initially
priced using an 11-percent interest rate. Bond A matures one year from today, bond B
matures five years from today, and bond C matures 10 years from today.
a. What is the current price of each bond?
b. If the market rate of interest rises to 14 percent, what will be the prices of these bonds?
c. Which bond experienced the greatest percentage change in price?
25.14 Calculate the duration of a perpetuity that pays $100 at each year-end. Assume the annual
discount rate of 12 percent. What if the discount rate is 10 percent?
25.15 Consider two four-year bonds. Each bond has a $1,000 face value. Bond A’s coupon rate
is 7 percent, while bond B’s coupon rate is 11 percent.
a. What is the price of each bond when the market rate of interest is 10 percent?
b. What is the price of each bond when the market rate of interest is 7 percent?
c. Which bond experienced the greatest percentage change in price?
d. Explain your (c) result.
25.16 Calculate the duration of a three-year, $1,000 face-value bond with a 9-percent coupon
rate, selling at par.
25.17 Calculate the duration of a four-year, $1,000 face-value bond with a 9-percent coupon
rate, selling at par.
25.18 Calculate the duration of a four-year, $1,000 face-value bond with a 5-percent coupon
rate, selling at par.
25.19 Mr. and Mrs. Chaikovski have a son who is going to enter a music college three years
from today. Annual school expenses of $20,000 will occur at the beginning of each year
for four years. What is the duration of Mr. and Mrs. Chaikovski’s liability as parents?
Assume the annual borrowing rate of 15 percent.
728
Part VI
Options, Futures, and Corporate Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VI. Options, Futures, and 
Corporate Finance
25. Derivatives and 
Hedging Risk
735
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
25.20 The following balance sheet is for Besdall Community Bank.
Market Value
Duration
Assets
Federal funds deposits
$ 43 million
0
Accounts-receivable loans
615 million
4 months
Short-term loans
345 million
9 months
Long-term loans
55 million
5 years
Mortgages
197 million
15 years
Liabilities and Equity
Checking and savings deposits
$490 million
0
Certificates of deposit
370 million
18 months
Long-term financing
250 million
10 years
Equity
145 million
a. What is the duration of Besdall’s assets?
b. What is the duration of Besdall’s liabilities?
c. Is Besdall Community Bank immune from interest-rate risk?
25.21 Refer to the previous problem. To what values must the durations of Besdall Community
Bank change to make the bank immune from interest-rate risk if
a. Only the durations of the liabilities change?
b. Only the durations of the assets change?
25.22 Consider the following balance sheet for California Commercial Bank.
CALIFORNIA COMMERCIAL BANK
Market Value Balance Sheet
Market Value
($ million)
Duration
Assets
Overnight money
$
100
0
Loans
500
1 year
Mortgages
1,200
12 years
______
$1,800
______
______
Liabilities and Equity
Checking and savings accounts
$ 300
0
Certificates of deposit
400
1.1 year
Long-term debt
500
18.9 years
Equity
600
______
$1,800
______
______
a. What is the duration of California’s assets? What is the duration of liabilities?
b. Is the bank immunized from interest-rate risk?
Swaps
25.23 The Miller Company and the Edwards Company both need to raise money to fund
facilities improvements at their manufacturing plants in New York. Miller has been in
business for 40 years and has a very good credit rating. It can borrow money at either 10
percent or at the LIBOR  .03 percent floating rate. The Edwards Company has
experienced some financial distress recently and does not have a strong credit history. It
can borrow funds at 15 percent or 2 percent over the LIBOR rate.
a. Is there an opportunity for the Miller Company and the Edwards Company to benefit
from a swap?
b. Show how you would structure a swap transaction between Miller and Edwards.
Chapter 25
Derivatives and Hedging Risk
729

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
Introduction
736
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Financial Planning and
Short-Term Finance
PART VII
26 Corporate Financial Models and Long-Term Planning
732
27 Short-Term Finance and Planning
746
28 Cash Management
771
29 Credit Management
798
F
INANCIAL planning establishes the blueprint for change in a firm. It is necessary be-
cause (1) it includes putting forth the firm’s goals to motivate the organization and
provide benchmarks for performance measurement, (2) the firm’s financing and invest-
ment decisions are not independent and their interaction must be identified, and (3) the
firm must anticipate changing conditions and surprises.
Most of Chapter 26 is devoted to long-term financial planning. Long-term financial
planning incorporates decisions such as capital budgeting, capital structure, and divi-
dend policy. An important part of Chapter 26 is the discussion of building corporate fi-
nancial models. Here we introduce the concept of sustainable growth and show that a
firm’s growth rate depends on its operating characteristics (profit margin and asset
turnover) and financial policies (dividend policy and capital structure).
In Chapter 27 we introduce short-term financial planning, which involves short-lived
assets and liabilities. We discuss two aspects of short-term financial planning: (1) the size
of the firm’s investment in current assets, such as cash, accounts receivable, and inven-
tory, and (2) how to finance short-term assets. We describe the primary tool for short-term
financial planning, the cash budget. It incorporates the short-term financial goals of the
firm and tells the financial manager the amount of necessary short-term financing.
In Chapter 28 we describe the management of a firm’s investment in cash. The chap-
ter divides cash management into three separate areas:
1. Determining the appropriate target cash balance.
2. Collecting and disbursing cash.
3. Investing the excess cash in marketable securities.
Chapter 29 describes what is involved when a firm makes the decision to grant credit to
its customers. This decision involves three types of analysis:
1. A firm must decide on the conditions under which it sells its goods and services for
credit. These conditions are the terms of the sale.
2. Before granting credit, the firm must analyze the risk that the customer will not pay;
this is called credit analysis.
3. After credit is extended, the firm must determine how to collect its cash.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
26. Corporate Financial 
Models and Long−Term 
Planning
737
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Corporate Financial
Models and Long-Term
Planning
CHAPTER 26
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
F
inancial planning establishes guidelines for change in the firm. These guidelines
should include (1) an identification of the firm’s financial goals, (2) an analysis of the
differences between these goals and the current financial status of the firm, and (3) a
statement of the actions needed for the firm to achieve its financial goals. In other words,
as one member of GM’s board was heard to say, “Planning is a process that at best helps
the firm avoid stumbling into the future backwards.”
The basic policy elements of financial planning have been put forth in various chapters
in this book. They comprise (1) the investment opportunities the firm elects to take advan-
tage of, (2) the degree of financial leverage the firm chooses to employ, and (3) the amount
of cash the firm thinks is necessary and appropriate to pay shareholders. These are the fi-
nancial policies that the firm must decide upon for its growth and profitability.
Almost all firms use an explicit, companywide growth rate as a major component of
their long-run financial planning. In one famous case International Business Machines’
stated growth goal was simple but typical: to match the growth of the computer industry,
which was projected to 15 percent per year through the end of the 1990’s.1 Though we
may have had some doubts about IBM’s ability to sustain a 15-percent growth rate, we
are certain there are important financial implications of the strategies that IBM will adopt
to achieve that rate. There are direct connections between the growth that a company can
achieve and its financial policy. One purpose of this chapter is to look at the financial as-
pects of strategic decisions.
The chapter first describes what is usually meant by corporate financial planning.
Mostly we talk about long-term financial planning. Short-term financial planning is dis-
cussed in the next chapter. We examine what the firm can accomplish by developing a long-
term financial plan. This enables us to make an important point: Investment and financing
decisions frequently interact. The different interactions of investment and financing deci-
sions can be analyzed in the planning model.
Finally, financial planning forces the corporation to think about goals. The goal most
frequently espoused by corporations is growth. Indeed, one of the consequences of accept-
ing positive NPV projects is growth. We show how financial-planning models can be used
to better understand how growth is achieved.
1See The Wall Street Journal, June 12, 1985. IBM’s actual annual growth rate in revenues was considerably
lower than 15 percent. From 1985 to 1994, IBM’s growth in annual revenues was closer to 6 percent. In the last
five years, its revenues have grown at an annual rate of 2.5 percent.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
26. Corporate Financial 
Models and Long−Term 
Planning
738
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
26.1 WHAT IS CORPORATE FINANCIAL PLANNING?
Financial planning formulates the method by which financial goals are to be achieved. It
has two dimensions: a time frame and a level of aggregation.
A financial plan is a statement of what is to be done in a future time. The GM board
member was right on target when he explained the virtues of financial planning. Most de-
cisions have long lead times, which means they take a long time to implement. In an un-
certain world, this requires that decisions be made far in advance of their implementation.
If a firm wants to build a factory in 2003, it may need to line up contractors in 2001. It is
sometimes useful to think of the future as having a short run and a long run. The short
run, in practice, is usually the coming 12 months. Initially, we focus our attention on fi-
nancial planning over the long run, which is usually taken to be a two-year to five-year
period of time.
Financial plans are compiled from the capital-budgeting analyses of each of a firm’s
projects. In effect, the smaller investment proposals of each operational unit are added up
and treated as a big project. This process is called aggregation.
Financial plans always entail alternative sets of assumptions. For example, suppose a
company has two separate divisions: one for consumer products and one for gas turbine en-
gines. The financial-planning process might require each division to prepare three alterna-
tive business plans for the next three years.
1. A Worst Case. This plan would require making the worst possible assumptions about
the company’s products and the state of the economy. It could mean divestiture and
liquidation.
2. A Normal Case. This plan would require making the most likely assumptions about the
company and the economy.
3. A Best Case. Each division would be required to work out a case based on the most op-
timistic assumptions. It could involve new products and expansion.
Because the company is likely to spend a lot of time preparing proposals on different
scenarios that will become the basis for the company’s financial plan, it seems reasonable
to ask what the planning process will accomplish.
1. Interactions. The financial plan must make the linkages between investment proposals
for the different operating activities of the firm and the financing choices available to
the firm explicit. IBM’s 15-percent growth target goes hand in hand with its financing
program.
2. Options. The financial plan provides the opportunity for the firm to work through vari-
ous investment and financing options. The firm addresses questions of what financing
arrangements are optimal, and evaluates options of closing plants or marketing new
products.
3. Feasibility. The different plans must fit into the overall corporate objective of maximiz-
ing shareholder wealth.
4. Avoiding Surprises. Financial planning should identify what may happen in the fu-
ture if certain events take place. Thus, one of the purposes of financial planning is to
avoid surprises.
• What are the two dimensions of the financial planning process?
• Why should firms draw up financial plans?
Chapter 26
Corporate Financial Models and Long-Term Planning
733
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
26. Corporate Financial 
Models and Long−Term 
Planning
739
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
26.2 A FINANCIAL-PLANNING MODEL: THE INGREDIENTS
Just as companies differ in size and products, financial plans are not the same for all com-
panies. However, there are some common elements:
1. Sales forecast. All financial plans require a sales forecast. Perfectly accurate sales
forecasts are not possible, because sales depend on the uncertain future state of the
economy. Firms can get help from businesses specializing in macroeconomic and in-
dustry projections.
2. Pro forma statements. The financial plan will have a forecast balance sheet, an income
statement, and a sources-and-uses statement. These are called pro forma statements, or
pro formas.
3. Asset requirements. The plan will describe projected capital spending. In addition, it
will discuss the proposed uses of net working capital.
4. Financial requirements. The plan will include a section on financing arrangements.
This part of the plan should discuss dividend policy and debt policy. Sometimes firms
will expect to raise equity by selling new shares of stock. In this case the plan must
consider what kinds of securities must be sold and what methods of issuance are most
appropriate.
5. Plug. Suppose a financial planner assumes that sales, costs, and net income will rise at
a particular rate, g1. Further suppose that the planner wants assets and liabilities to grow
at a different rate, g2. These two different growth rates may be incompatible unless a
third variable is also adjusted. For example, compatibility may only be reached if out-
standing stock grows at a different rate, g3. In this example, we treat the growth in out-
standing stock as the plug variable. That is, the growth rate in outstanding stock is cho-
sen to make the growth rate in income-statement items consistent with the growth rate
in balance-sheet items. Surprisingly, even if the income-statement items grow at the
same rate as the balance-sheet items, consistency might be achieved only if outstanding
stock grows at a different rate.
Of course, the growth rate in outstanding stock need not be the plug variable. One
could have income-statement items grow at g1, and assets, long-term debt, and out-
standing stock grow at g2. In this case, compatibility between g1 and g2 might be
achieved by letting short-term debt grow at a rate of g3.
6. Economic assumptions. The plan must explicitly state the economic environment in
which the firm expects to reside over the life of the plan. Among the economic assump-
tions that must be made is the level of interest rates.
EXAMPLE
The Computerfield Corporation’s 20X1 financial statements are as follows:
Income Statement
Balance Sheet
20X1
Year-End 20X1
Sales
$1,000
Assets
$500
Debt
$250
Costs
800
Equity
250
______
____
____
Net income
$ 200
Total
$500
Total
$500
______
____
____
______
____
____
734
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
26. Corporate Financial 
Models and Long−Term 
Planning
740
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
In 20X1, Computerfield’s profit margin is 20 percent, and it has never paid a
dividend. Its debt-equity ratio is 1. This is also the firm’s target debt-equity 
ratio. Unless otherwise stated, the financial planners at Computerfield assume
that all variables are tied directly to sales and that current relationships are 
optimal.
Suppose that sales increase by 20 percent from 20X1 to 20X2. Because the
planners would then also forecast a 20-percent increase in costs, the pro forma in-
come statement would be
Income Statement
20X2
Sales
$1,200
Costs
960
______
Net income
$ 240
The assumption that all variables will grow by 20 percent will enable us to con-
struct the pro forma balance sheet as well:
Balance Sheet
Year-End 20X2
Assets
$600
Debt
$300
Equity
300
____
____
Total
$600
Total
$600
Now we must reconcile these two pro formas. How, for example, can net income
be equal to $240 and equity increase by only $50? The answer is that Computer-
field must have paid a dividend or repurchased stock equal to $190. In this case
dividends are the plug variable.
Suppose Computerfield does not pay a dividend and does not repurchase
its own stock. With these assumptions, Computerfield’s equity will grow to
$490, and debt must be retired to keep total assets equal to $600. In this case
the debt-to-equity ratio is the plug variable. This example shows the interaction
of sales growth and financial policy. The next example focuses on the need for
external funds. It identifies a six-step procedure for constructing the pro forma
balance sheet.
EXAMPLE
The Rosengarten Corporation is thinking of acquiring a new machine. With this new
machine the company expects sales to increase from $20 million to $22 million—
10-percent growth. The corporation believes that its assets and liabilities vary 
directly with its level of sales. Its profit margin on sales is 10 percent, and its divi-
dend-payout ratio is 50 percent.
The company’s current balance sheet (reflecting the purchase of the new ma-
chine) is as follows:
Chapter 26
Corporate Financial Models and Long-Term Planning
735

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
26. Corporate Financial 
Models and Long−Term 
Planning
741
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Current Balance Sheet
Pro Forma Balance Sheet
Explanation
Current assets
$ 6,000,000
$ 6,600,000
30% of sales
Fixed assets
24,000,000
26,400,000
120% of sales
__________
__________
Total assets
$30,000,000
$33,000,000
150% of sales
__________
__________
__________
__________
Short-term debt
$10,000,000
$11,000,000
50% of sales
Long-term debt
6,000,000
6,600,000
30% of sales
Common stock
4,000,000
4,000,000
Constant
Retained earnings
10,000,000
11,100,000
Net income
__________
__________
Total financing
$30,000,000
$32,700,000
__________
__________
__________
__________
$
300,000
Funds needed (the 
__________
__________
difference between
total assets and total
financing)
From this information we can determine the pro forma balance sheet, which
is on the right-hand side. The change in retained earnings will be
Net income

Dividends

Change in
retained earnings
(0.10  $22 million)  (0.5  0.10  $22 million)  $1.1 million
In this example the plug variable is new shares of stock. The company must
issue $300,000 of new stock. The equation that can be used to determine if exter-
nal funds are needed is
External Funds Needed (EFN):
 (1.5  $2 million)  (0.80  $2 million)  (0.10  $22 million  0.5)
 $1.4 million
 $1.1 million
 $0.3 million
where
p  Net profit margin  0.10
d  Dividend payout ratio  0.5
Sales  Projected change in sales
The steps in the estimation of the pro forma sheet for the Rosengarten Cor-
poration and the external funds needed (EFN) are as follows:
1. Express balance-sheet items that vary with sales as a percentage of sales.
2. Multiply the percentages determined in step (1) by projected sales to ob-
tain the amount for the future period.
3. Where no percentage applies, simply insert the previous balance-sheet fig-
ure in the future period.
Debt
Sales  0.8
Assets
Sales  1.5

Assets
Sales  Sales  Debt
Sales  Sales  p  Projected sales  1  d
736
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
26. Corporate Financial 
Models and Long−Term 
Planning
742
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
4. Compute projected retained earnings as follows:
Projected retained earnings  Present retained earnings
 Projected net income  Cash dividends
5. Add the asset accounts to determine projected assets. Next, add the liabil-
ities and equity accounts to determine the total financing; any difference is
the shortfall. This equals external funds needed (EFN).
6. Use the plug to fill EFN.
Table 26.1 computes EFN for several different growth rates. For low growth rates,
Rosengarten will run a surplus, and for high growth rates, it will run a deficit. The “break-
even” growth rate is 7.7 percent. Figure 26.1 illustrates the relation between projected sales
Chapter 26
Corporate Financial Models and Long-Term Planning
737
I TABLE 26.1 Projected Sales Growth and EFN for the 
Rosengarten Corporation
Projected
Increase in
Addition to
External
Projected
Sales
Assets
Retained
Financing
Debt-to-
Growth
Required
Earnings
Needed (EFN)
Equity Ratio
0%
$
0
$1,000,000
$1,000,000
83.6%
5
1,500,000
1,050,000
350,000
86.8
7.7
2,310,000
1,077,000
—
89.2
10
3,000,000
1,100,000
300,000
91.2
20
6,000,000
1,200,000
1,600,000
100.0
Asset requirements
($ millions)
6
3
2.31
1.5
5
0
7.7
10
20
Projected
sales growth (%)
I FIGURE 26.1 Growth and EFN for the Rosengarten Corporation

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
26. Corporate Financial 
Models and Long−Term 
Planning
743
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
growth and EFN. As can be seen, the need for new assets from projected sales growth grows
much faster than the additions to retained earnings plus new debt. Eventually, a deficit is
created and a need for external financing becomes evident.
26.3 WHAT DETERMINES GROWTH?
Firms frequently make growth forecasts an explicit part of financial planning. Donaldson re-
ports on the pervasiveness of stating corporate goals in terms of growth rates.2 This may seem
puzzling in the light of our previous emphasis on maximizing the firm’s value as the central
goal of management. One way to reconcile the difference is to think of growth as an interme-
diate goal that leads to higher value. Rappaport correctly points out that, in applying the NPV
approach, growth should not be a goal but must be a consequence of decisions that maximize
NPV.3 In fact, if the firm is willing to accept negative NPV projects just to grow in size, growth
will probably make the stockholders (but perhaps not the managers) worse off.
Donaldson also concludes that most major industrial companies are very reluctant to
use external equity as a regular part of their financial planning. To illustrate the linkages be-
tween the ability of a firm to grow and its financial policy when the firm does not issue eq-
uity, we can make some planning assumptions.
1. The firm’s assets will grow in proportion to its sales.
2. Net income is a constant proportion of its sales.
3. The firm has a given dividend-payout policy and a given debt-equity ratio.
4. The firm will not change the number of outstanding shares of stock.
There is only one growth rate that is consistent with the preceding assumptions. In ef-
fect, with these assumptions, growth has been made a plug variable. To see this, recall that a
change in assets must always be equal to a change in debt plus a change in equity:

Now we can write the conditions that ensure this equality and solve for the growth rate that
will give it to us.
738
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
2G. Donaldson, Managing Corporation Wealth: The Operations of a Comprehensive Financial Goals System
(New York: Praeger, 1984).
3A. Rappaport, Creating Shareholder Value: The New Standard for Business Performance (New York: Free
Press, 1986).
Change 
in 
assets
Change 
in 
debt
Change 
in 
equity

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
26. Corporate Financial 
Models and Long−Term 
Planning
744
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The variables used in this demonstration are the following:
T  The ratio of total assets to sales
p  The net profit margin on sales
d  The dividend-payout ratio
L  The debt-equity ratio
S0  Sales this year
S  The change in sales (S1  S0  S)
S1  Next year’s projected sales
RE  Retained earnings  Net income  Retention ratio  S1  p  (1  d)
NI  Net income  S1  p
If the firm is to increase sales by S during the year, it must increase assets by TS.
The firm is assumed not to be able to change the number of shares of stock outstanding, so
the equity financing must come from retained earnings. Retained earnings will depend on
next year’s sales, the payout ratio, and the profit margin. The amount of borrowing will de-
pend on the amount of retained earnings and the debt-equity ratio.
New equity:
S1  p  (1  d)
plus
Borrowing:
[S1  p  (1  d)]  L
equals
Capital spending:
TS
Moving things around a little gives the following:
TS  [S1  p  (1  d)]  [S1  p  (1  d)  L]
and
(26.1)
This is the growth-rate equation. Given the profit margin (p), the payout ratio (d), the debt-
equity ratio (L), and the asset-requirement ratio (T), the growth rate can be determined.4 It
is the only growth possible with the preset values for the four variables. Higgins has referred
to this growth rate as the firm’s sustainable growth rate.5
EXAMPLE
Table 26.2 shows the current income statement, the sources-and-uses-of-funds
statement, and the balance sheet for the Hoffman Corporation. Net income for the
corporation was 16.5 percent ($1,650/$10,000) of sales revenue. The company paid
out 72.4 percent ($1,195/$1,650) of its net income in dividends. The interest rate
on debt was 10 percent, and the long-term debt was 50 percent ($5,000/$10,000) of
assets. (Notice that, for simplicity, we use the single term net working capital, in
S
S0

p  1  d  1  L
T  p  1  d  1  L  Growth rate in sales
Chapter 26
Corporate Financial Models and Long-Term Planning
739
4This is approximately equal to the rate of return on equity (ROE) multiplied by the retention rate (RR):
ROE  RR. This expression is only precisely equal to equation (26.1) above in continuous time; otherwise
it is an approximation. More precisely,
5R. C. Higgins, “Sustainable Growth under Inflation,” Financial Management (Autumn 1981). The definition of
sustainable growth was popularized by the Boston Consulting Group and others.
Growth rate in sales 
ROE  RR
1  ROE  RR

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
26. Corporate Financial 
Models and Long−Term 
Planning
745
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Table 26.2, instead of separating current assets from current liabilities.) Hoffman’s
assets grew at the rate of 10 percent ($910/$9,090). In addition, sales grew at 10
percent, though this increase is not shown in Table 26.2.
The cash flow generated by Hoffman was enough not only to pay a dividend
but also to increase net working capital and fixed assets by $455 each. The com-
pany did not issue any shares of stock during the year. Its debt-equity ratio and
dividend-payout ratio remained constant throughout the year.
740
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
I TABLE 26.2 Current Financial Statements:
The Hoffman Corporation (in thousands)
THE HOFFMAN CORPORATION
Income Statement
This Year
Net sales (S)
$10,000
Cost of sales
7,000
______
Earnings before taxes and interest
3,000
Interest expense
500
______
Earnings before taxes
2,500
Taxes
850
______
Net income (NI)
$ 1,650
______
______
Sources and Uses of Cash
This Year
Sources:
Net income (NI)
$ 1,650
Depreciation
500
______
Operating cash flow
2,150
Borrowing
455
New stock issue
0
______
Total sources
$ 2,605
Uses:
Increase in net working capital
455
Capital spending
955
Dividends
1,195
______
Total uses
$ 2,605
Balance Sheet
This Year
Last Year
Change
Assets
Net working capital
$ 5,000
$4,545
$455
Fixed assets
5,000
4,545
455
______
_____
____
Total assets
$10,000
$9,090
$910
______
_____
____
______
_____
____
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
Debt
$ 5,000
$4,545
$455
Equity
5,000
4,545
455
______
_____
____
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
$10,000
$9,090
$910
______
_____
____
______
_____
____

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
26. Corporate Financial 
Models and Long−Term 
Planning
746
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The sustainable growth rate for the Hoffman Corporation is 10 percent, or
However, suppose its desired growth rate was to be 20 percent. It is possible for
Hoffman’s desired growth to exceed its sustainable growth because Hoffman is
able to issue new shares of stock. A firm can do several things to increase its sus-
tainable growth rate as seen from the Hoffman example:
1. Sell new shares of stock.
2. Increase its reliance on debt.
3. Reduce its dividend-payout ratio.
4. Increase profit margins.
5. Decrease its asset-requirement ratio.
Now we can see the use of a financial-planning model to test the feasibility of
the planned growth rate. If sales are to grow at a rate higher than the sustainable
growth rate, the firm must improve operating performance, increase financial
leverage, decrease dividends, or sell new shares. Of course, the planned rates of
growth should be the result of a complete NPV-based planning process.
• When might the goals of growth and value maximization be in conflict, and when would
they be aligned?
• What are the determinants of growth?
26.4 SOME CAVEATS OF FINANCIAL-PLANNING MODELS
Financial-planning models suffer from a great deal of criticism. We present two commonly
voiced attacks below.
First, financial-planning models do not indicate which financial policies are the best.
For example, our model could not tell us whether Hoffman’s decision to issue new equity
to achieve a higher growth rate raises the NPV of the firm.
Second, financial-planning models are too simple. In reality, costs are not always pro-
portional to sales, assets need not be a fixed percentage of sales, and capital-budgeting in-
volves a sequence of decisions over time. These assumptions are generally not incorporated
into financial plans.
Financial-planning models are necessary to assist in planning the future investment and
financial decisions of the firm. Without some sort of long-term financial plan, the firm may
find itself adrift in a sea of change without a rudder for guidance. But, because of the as-
sumptions and the abstractions from reality necessary in the construction of the financial
plan, we also think that they should carry the label: Let the user beware!
0.165  0.276  2
1  0.165  0.276  2  0.1
Chapter 26
Corporate Financial Models and Long-Term Planning
741
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
26. Corporate Financial 
Models and Long−Term 
Planning
747
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
26.5 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Financial planning forces the firm to think about and forecast the future. It involves the following:
1. Building a corporate financial model.
2. Describing different scenarios of future development from worst to best cases.
3. Using the models to construct pro forma financial statements.
4. Running the model under different scenarios (conducting sensitivity analysis).
5. Examining the financial implications of ultimate strategic plans.
Corporate financial planning should not become a purely mechanical activity. If it does, it will
probably focus on the wrong things. In particular, plans are formulated all too often in terms of a
growth target with an explicit linkage to creation of value. Nonetheless, the alternative to
financial planning is stumbling into the future.
742
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
IN THEIR OWN WORDS
Robert C. Higgins on Sustainable Growth
M
ost financial officers know intuitively that it takes
money to make money. Rapid sales growth
requires increased assets in the form of accounts receiv-
able, inventory, and fixed plant, which, in turn, require
money to pay for assets. They also know that if their
company does not have the money when needed, it can
literally “grow broke.” The sustainable growth equation
states these intuitive truths explicitly.
Sustainable growth is often used by bankers and other
external analysts to assess a company’s credit-worthiness.
They are aided in this exercise by several sophisticated
computer software packages that provide detailed
analyses of the company’s past financial performance,
including its annual sustainable growth rate.
Bankers use this information in several ways. Quick
comparison of a company’s actual growth rate to its
sustainable rate tells the banker what issues will be at the
top of management’s financial agenda. If actual growth
consistently exceeds sustainable growth, management’s
problem will be where to get the cash to finance growth.
The banker thus can anticipate interest in loan products.
Conversely, if sustainable growth consistently exceeds
actual, the banker had best be prepared to talk about invest-
ment products, because management’s problem will be
what to do with all the cash that keeps piling up in the till. 
Bankers also find the sustainable growth equation
useful for explaining to financially inexperienced
small business owners and overly optimistic entrepre-
neurs that, for the long-run viability of their business,
it is necessary to keep growth and profitability in
proper balance.
Finally, comparison of actual to sustainable growth
rates helps a banker understand why a loan applicant
needs money and for how long the need might continue.
In one instance, a loan applicant requested $100,000 to
pay off several insistent suppliers and promised to repay
in a few months when he collected some accounts receiv-
able that were coming due. A sustainable growth analysis
revealed that the firm had been growing at four to six
times its sustainable growth rate and that this pattern was
likely to continue in the foreseeable future. This alerted
the banker that impatient suppliers were only a symptom
of the much more fundamental disease of overly rapid
growth, and that a $100,000 loan would likely prove to
be only the down payment on a much larger, multiyear
commitment.
Robert C. Higgins is Professor of Finance at the University of
Washington. He pioneered the use of sustainable growth as a
tool for financial analysis.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
26. Corporate Financial 
Models and Long−Term 
Planning
748
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
KEY TERMS
Aggregation
733
Plug
734
Asset requirements
734
Pro forma statements
734
Economic assumptions
734
Sales forecast
734
Financial requirements
734
Sustainable growth rate
739
SUGGESTED READINGS
Approaches to building a financial planning model are contained in:
Carleton, W. T., and C. L. Dick, Jr. “Financial Policy Models: Theory and Practice.” Journal of
Financial and Quantitative Analysis 8 (1973).
Francis, J. C., and D. R. Rowell. “A Simultaneous-Equation Model of the Firm for Financial
Analysis and Planning.” Financial Management (Spring 1978).
Myers, S. C., and G. A. Pogue. “A Programming Approach to Corporate Financial
Management.” Journal of Finance 29 (May 1974).
Warren, J. M., and J. R. Shelton. “A Simultaneous-Equation Approach to Financial Planning.”
Journal of Finance (December 1971).
The most extensive textbook treatment of financial planning:
Lee, C. F. Financial Analysis and Planning: Theory and Application. Reading, Mass.: Addison-
Wesley, 1985.
For a critical discussion of sustainable growth, see:
Rappaport, A. Creating Shareholder Value: The New Standard for Business Performance. New
York: Free Press, 1986.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Financial-Planning Models: The Ingredients
26.1 After examining patterns from recent years, management found the following regression-
estimated relationships between some company balance sheets and income statement
accounts and sales.
CA  0.5 million  0.25S
FA  1.0 million  0.50S
CL  0.1 million  0.10S
NP  0.0 million  0.02S
where
CA  Current assets
FA  Fixed assets
CL  Current liabilities
NP  Net profit after taxes
S  Sales
The company’s sales for last year were $10 million. The year-end balance sheet is
reproduced below.
Current assets
$3,000,000
Current liabilities
$1,100,000
Fixed assets
6,000,000
Bonds
2,500,000
Common stock
2,000,000
Retained earnings
3,400,000
_________
_________
Total
$9,000,000
Total
$9,000,000
_________
_________
_________
_________
Chapter 26
Corporate Financial Models and Long-Term Planning
743

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
26. Corporate Financial 
Models and Long−Term 
Planning
749
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Management further found that the company’s sales bear a relationship to GNP. That
relationship is
S  0.00001  GNP
The forecast of GNP for next year is $2.05 trillion. The firm pays out 34 percent of net
profits after taxes in dividends.
Create a pro forma balance sheet for this firm.
26.2 Cheryl Colby, the CFO of Charming Florist Ltd. has created the firm’s pro forma balance
sheet for the next fiscal year. Sales are projected to grow at 10 percent to the level of $330
million. Current assets, fixed assets, short-term debt, and long-term debt are 25 percent,
150 percent, 40 percent, and 45 percent of the total sales, respectively. Charming Florist
pays out 40 percent of net income. The value of common stock is constant at $50 million.
The profit margin on sales is 12 percent.
a. Based on Ms. Colby’s forecast, how much external fund does Charming Florist need?
b. Reconstruct the current balance sheet based on the projected figures.
c. Lay out the firm’s pro forma balance sheet for the next fiscal year.
What Determines Growth?
26.3 The Stieben Company has determined that the following will be true next year:
T  Ratio of total assets to sales  1
P  Net profit margin on sales  5%
d  Dividend-payout ratio  50%
L  Debt-equity ratio  1
a. What is Stieben’s sustainable growth rate in sales?
b. Can Stieben’s actual growth rate in sales be different from its sustainable growth rate?
Why or why not?
c. How can Stieben change its sustainable growth?
26.4 The Optimal Scam Company would like to see its sales grow at 20 percent for the
foreseeable future. Its financial statements for the current year are presented below.
Income Statement
Balance Sheet
($ millions)
($ millions)
Sales
32.00
Current assets
16
Costs
28.97
Fixed assets
16
_____
__
Gross profit
3.03
Total assets
32
__
__
Taxes
1.03
_____
Net income
2.00
Current debt
10
_____
_____
Long-term debt
4
__
Dividends
1.40
Total debt
14
Retained earnings
0.60
Common stock
14
Ret. earnings
4
__
Total liabilities and equity
32
__
__
The current financial policy of the Optimal Scam Company includes
Dividend-payout ratio (d)  70%
Debt-to-equity ratio (L)  77.78%
Net profit margin (P)  6.25%
Assets-sales ratio (T)  1
a. Determine Optimal Scam’s need for external funds next year.
b. Construct a pro forma balance sheet for Optimal Scam.
c. Calculate the sustainable growth rate for the Optimal Scam Company.
d. How can Optimal Scam change its financial policy to achieve its growth objective?
744
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
26. Corporate Financial 
Models and Long−Term 
Planning
750
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
26.5 The MBI Company does not want to grow. The company’s financial management believes
it has no positive NPV projects. The company’s operating financial characteristics are
Profit margin  10%
Assets-sales ratio  150%
Debt-equity ratio  100%
Dividend-payout ratio  50%
a. Calculate the sustainable growth rate for the MBI Company.
b. How can the MBI Company achieve its stated growth goal?
26.6 Throughout this text, you have learned that financial managers should select positive net-
present-value projects. How does this project-selection criterion relate to financial-
planning models?
26.7 Your firm recently hired a new MBA. She insists that your firm is incorrectly computing
its sustainable growth rate. Your firm computes the sustainable growth rate using the
following formula:
P  Net profit margin on sales
d  Dividend-payout ratio
L  Debt-equity ratio
T  Ratio of total assets to sales
Your new employee claims that the correct formula is ROE  (1  d) where ROE is net
profit divided by net worth and d is dividends divided by net profit. Is your new employee
correct?
26.8 Atlantic Transportation Co. has a payout ratio of 60 percent, debt-equity ratio of 50
percent, return on equity of 16 percent, and an assets-sales ratio of 175 percent.
a. What is its sustainable growth rate?
b. What must its profit margin be in order to achieve its sustainable growth rate?
Some Caveats of Financial-Planning Models
26.9 What are the shortcomings of financial-planning models that we should be aware of?
P  1  d  1  L
T  P  1  d  1  L
Chapter 26
Corporate Financial Models and Long-Term Planning
745

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
751
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Short-Term Finance 
and Planning
CHAPTER 27
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
U
p to now we have described many of the decisions of long-term finance: capital
budgeting, dividend policy, and capital structure. This chapter introduces short-
term finance. Short-term finance is an analysis of decisions that affect current as-
sets and current liabilities and will frequently have an impact on the firm within a year.
The term net working capital is often associated with short-term financial decision
making. Net working capital is the difference between current assets and current liabilities.
The focus of short-term finance on net working capital seems to suggest that it is an ac-
counting subject. However, making net working capital decisions still relies on cash flow
and net present value.
There is no universally accepted definition of short-term finance. The most important
difference between short-term and long-term finance is the timing of cash flows. Short-term
financial decisions involve cash inflows and outflows within a year or less. For example, a
short-term financial decision is involved when a firm orders raw materials, pays in cash, and
anticipates selling finished goods in one year for cash, as illustrated in Figure 27.1. A long-
term financial decision is involved when a firm purchases a special machine that will re-
duce operating costs over the next five years, as illustrated in Figure 27.2.
Here are some questions of short-term finance:
1. What is a reasonable level of cash to keep on hand (in a bank) to pay bills?
2. How much raw material should be ordered?
3. How much credit should be extended to customers?
This chapter introduces the basic elements of short-term financial decisions. First, we
describe the short-term operating activities of the firm, and then we identify alternative
short-term financial policies. Finally, we outline the basic elements in a short-term finan-
cial plan and describe short-term financing instruments.
27.1 TRACING CASH AND NET WORKING CAPITAL
In this section we trace the components of cash and net working capital as they change from
one year to the next. Our goal is to describe the short-term operating activities of the firm
and their impact on cash and working capital.
Current assets are cash and other assets that are expected to be converted to cash
within the year. Current assets are presented in the balance sheet in order of their ac-
counting liquidity—the ease with which they can be converted to cash at a fair price and
the time it takes to do so. Table 27.1 gives the balance sheet and income statement of the
Tradewinds Manufacturing Corporation for 20X2 and 20X1. The four major items found
in the current asset section of the Tradewinds balance sheet are cash, marketable securi-
ties, accounts receivable, and inventories.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
752
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 27
Short-Term Finance and Planning
747
Cash inflows
Cash outflows
Time:
Payment of cash
for raw materials
1 year
(or less)
Cash received from
sold goods
I FIGURE 27.1 Short-Term Financial Decision
Cash inflows
Cash outflows
Time:
Purchase of
machine
Cost savings
Years
1
2
3
4
5
I FIGURE 27.2 Long-Term Financial Decision
Analogous to their investment in current assets, firms use several kinds of short-term
debt, called current liabilities. Current liabilities are obligations that are expected to require
cash payment within one year or within the operating cycle, whichever is shorter.1 The three
major items found as current liabilities are accounts payable; accrued wages, taxes, and
other expenses payable; and notes payable.
27.2 DEFINING CASH IN TERMS OF OTHER ELEMENTS
Now we will define cash in terms of the other elements of the balance sheet. The balance
sheet equation is
Net working capital  Fixed assets  Long-term debt  Equity
(27.1)
Net working capital is cash plus the other elements of net working capital; that is,
(27.2)
Substituting equation (27.2) into (27.1) yields
(27.3)
and rearranging, we find that
(27.4)
Cash  Long-term
debt
 Equity  Net working capital
excluding cash
 Fixed
assets
Cash  Other current
assets
 Current
liabilities  Long-term
debt
 Equity  Fixed
assets
Net working
capital
 Cash  Other current
assets
 Current
liabilities
1As we will learn in this chapter, the operating cycle begins when inventory is received and ends when cash is
collected from the sale of inventory.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
753
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The natural interpretation of equation (27.4) is that increasing long-term debt and equity
and decreasing fixed assets and net working capital (excluding cash) will increase cash to
the firm.
The Sources-and-Uses-of-Cash Statement
From the right-hand side of equation (27.4), we can see an increase in long-term debt and/or
equity leads to an increase in cash. Moreover, a decrease in net working capital and/or fixed
assets leads to a decrease in cash. In addition, the sum of net income and depreciation in-
creases cash, whereas dividend payments decrease cash. This reasoning allows an accoun-
tant to create a sources-and-uses-of-cash statement, which shows all the transactions that
affect a firm’s cash position.
748
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
I TABLE 27.1 Financial Statements
TRADEWINDS MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
December 31, 20X2, and December 31, 20X1
Balance Sheet
20X2
20X1
Assets
Current assets:
Cash  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $
500,000
$ 500,000
Marketable securities (at cost) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
500,000
450,000
Accounts receivable less allowance for bad debts . . . . . . .
2,000,000
1,600,000
Inventories  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3,000,000
2,000,000
_________
_________
Total current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 6,000,000
$4,550,000
Fixed assets (property, plant, and equipment):
Land . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
450,000
450,000
Building  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4,000,000
4,000,000
Machinery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,500,000
800,000
Office equipment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50,000
50,000
Less: Accumulated depreciation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2,000,000
1,700,000
_________
_________
Net fixed assets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4,000,000
3,600,000
Prepayments and deferred charges  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
400,000
300,000
Intangibles  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
100,000
100,000
_________
_________
Total assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $10,500,000
$8,550,000
_________
_________
_________
_________
Liabilities
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 1,000,000
$ 750,000
Notes payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,500,000
500,000
Accrued expenses payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
250,000
225,000
Taxes payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
250,000
225,000
_________
_________
Total current liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 3,000,000
$1,700,000
Long-term liabilities:
First mortgage bonds, 5% interest, due 2025  . . . . . . . . . .
3,000,000
3,000,000
Deferred taxes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
600,000
600,000
_________
_________
Total liabilities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 6,600,000
$5,300,000

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
754
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Let us trace the changes in cash for Tradewinds during the year. Notice that Tradewinds’
cash balance remained constant during 20X2, even though cash flow from operations was
$1.04 million (net income plus depreciation). Why did cash remain the same? The answer is
simply that the sources of cash were equal to the uses of cash. From the firm’s sources-and-
uses-of-cash statement (Table 27.2), we find that Tradewinds generated cash as follows:
1. It generated cash flow from operations of $1.04 million.
2. It increased its accounts payable by $250,000. This is the same as increasing borrowing
from suppliers.
3. It increased its borrowing from banks by $1 million. This shows up as an increase in
notes payable.
4. It increased accrued expenses by $25,000.
5. It increased taxes payable by $25,000, in effect borrowing from the IRS.
Tradewinds used cash for the following reasons:
1. It invested $700,000 in fixed assets.
2. It increased prepayments by $100,000.
Chapter 27
Short-Term Finance and Planning
749
I TABLE 27.1 (concluded)
TRADEWINDS MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
December 31, 20X2, and December 31, 20X1
20X2
20X1
Stockholders’ Equity
Common stock, $5 par value each; authorized,
issued, and outstanding 300,000 shares  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 1,500,000
$ 1,500,000
Capital surplus  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
500,000
500,000
Accumulated retained earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,900,000
1,250,000
_________
_________
Total stockholders’ equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3,900,000
3,250,000
_________
_________
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $10,500,000
$ 8,550,000
_________
_________
_________
_________
Consolidated Income Statement
Net sales  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $11,500,000
$10,700,000
Cost of sales and operating expenses:
Cost of goods sold  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8,200,000
7,684,000
Depreciation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
300,000
275,000
Selling and administration expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,400,000
1,325,000
_________
_________
Operating profit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,600,000
1,416,000
Other income:
Dividends and interest  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50,000
50,000
_________
_________
Total income from operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,650,000
1,466,000
Less: Interest on bonds and other liabilities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
300,000
150,000
_________
_________
Income before provision for income tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,350,000
1,316,000
Provision for income tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
610,000
600,000
_________
_________
Net profit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $
740,000
$
716,000
_________
_________
_________
_________
Dividends paid out  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $
90,000
$
132,000
Retained earnings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $
650,000
$
584,000

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
755
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
3. It paid a $90,000 dividend.
4. It invested in inventory worth $1 million.
5. It lent its customers additional money. Hence, accounts receivable increased by
$400,000.
6. It purchased $50,000 worth of marketable securities.
This example illustrates the difference between a firm’s cash position on the balance
sheet and cash flows from operations.
• What is the difference between net working capital and cash?
• Will net working capital always increase when cash increases?
• List the potential uses of cash.
• List the potential sources of cash.
27.3 THE OPERATING CYCLE AND THE CASH CYCLE
Short-term finance is concerned with the firm’s short-run operating activities.A typical man-
ufacturing firm’s short-run operating activities consist of a sequence of events and decisions:
750
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
I TABLE 27.2
TRADEWINDS MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
Sources and Uses of Cash
(in thousands)
Sources of Cash:
Cash flow from operations:
Net income
$ 740
Depreciation
300
______
Total cash flow from operations
$1,040
Decrease in net working capital:
Increase in accounts payable
250
Increase in notes payable
1,000
Increase in accrued expenses
25
Increase in taxes payable
25
______
Total sources of cash
$2,340
Uses of cash:
Increase in fixed assets
$ 700
Increase in prepayments
100
Dividends
90
Increase in net working capital:
Investment in inventory
1,000
Increase in accounts receivable
400
Increase in marketable securities
50
______
Total uses of cash
$2,340
______
Change in cash balance
0
______
______
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
756
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Events
Decisions
1. Buying raw materials
1. How much inventory to order?
2. Paying cash for purchases
2. To borrow, or draw down cash balance?
3. Manufacturing the product
3. What choice of production technology?
4. Selling the product
4. To offer cash terms or credit terms to
customers?
5. Collecting cash
5. How to collect cash?
These activities create patterns of cash inflows and cash outflows that are both unsyn-
chronized and uncertain. They are unsynchronized because the payments of cash for raw
materials does not happen at the same time as the receipt of cash from selling the product.
They are uncertain because future sales and costs are not known with certainty.
Figure 27.3 depicts the short-term operating activities and cash flows for a typical man-
ufacturing firm along the cash flow time line. The operating cycle is the time interval be-
tween the arrival of inventory stock and the date when cash is collected from receivables.
The cash cycle begins when cash is paid for materials and ends when cash is collected from
receivables. The cash flow time line consists of an operating cycle and a cash cycle. The
need for short-term financial decision making is suggested by the gap between the cash in-
flows and cash outflows. This is related to the lengths of the operating cycle and the ac-
counts payable period. This gap can be filled either by borrowing or by holding a liquidity
reserve for marketable securities. The gap can be shortened by changing the inventory, re-
ceivable, and payable periods. Now we take a closer look at the operating cycle.
The length of the operating cycle is equal to the sum of the lengths of the inventory and
accounts receivable periods. The inventory period is the length of time required to order,
produce, and sell a product. The accounts receivable period is the length of time required
to collect cash receipts.
Chapter 27
Short-Term Finance and Planning
751
Raw material
purchased
Finished goods sold
Cash
received
Inventory period
Accounts receivable period
Firm receives
invoice
Cash paid
for materials
Operating cycle
Cash cycle
Order
placed
Stock
arrives
Time
Accounts payable
period
I FIGURE 27.3 Cash Flow Time Line and the Short-Term Operating
Activities of a Typical Manufacturing Firm
The operating cycle is the time period from the arrival of stock until the receipt of
cash. (Sometimes the operating cycle is defined to include the time from placement
of the order until arrival of the stock.) The cash cycle begins when cash is paid for
materials and ends when cash is collected from receivables.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
757
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The cash cycle is the time between cash disbursement and cash collection. It can be
thought of as the operating cycle less the accounts payable period, that is
Cash cycle  Operating cycle  Accounts payable period
The accounts payable period is the length of time the firm is able to delay payment on the
purchase of various resources, such as wages and raw materials.
In practice, the inventory period, the accounts receivable period, and the accounts
payable period are measured by days in inventory, days in receivables, and days in payables,
respectively. We illustrate how the operating cycle and the cash cycle can be measured in
the following example.
EXAMPLE
Tradewinds Manufacturing is a diversified manufacturing firm with the balance
sheet and income statement shown in Table 27.1 for 20X1 and 20X2. The operat-
ing cycle and the cash cycle can be determined for Tradewinds after calculating
the appropriate ratios for inventory, receivables, and payables. Consider inventory
first. The average inventory is
The terms in the numerator are the ending inventory in the second and first years,
respectively.
We next calculate the inventory-turnover ratio:
This implies that the inventory cycle occurs 3.3 times a year. Finally, we cal-
culate days in inventory:
Our calculation implies that the inventory cycle is slightly more than 110 days.
We perform analogous calculations for receivables and payables.2
 365
9.4  38.8 days
Days in
payables
 Cost of goods sold
Average payables 
$8.2 million
$0.875 million  9.4
Accounts payable
deferral period
 $1.0 million  $0.75 million
2
 $0.875 million
Average
payables
 365
6.4  57 days
Days in
receivables

Credit sales
Average accounts receivable  $11.5 million
$1.8 million  6.4
Average
receivable turnover
 $2.0 million  $1.6 million
2
 $1.8 million
Average
accounts receivable
Days in inventory  365 days
3.3
 110.6 days
 Cost of goods sold
Average inventory  $8.2 million
$2.5 million  3.3
Inventory-
turnover ratio
Average inventory  $3 million  $2 million
2
 $2.5 million
752
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
2We assume that Tradewinds Manufacturing makes no cash sales.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
758
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The preceding calculations allow us to determine both the operating cycle and
the cash cycle.
 110.6 days  57 days  167.6 days
 167.6 days  38.8 days  128.8 days.
The need for short-term financial decision making is suggested by the gap between the
cash inflows and cash outflows. This is related to the lengths of the operating cycles and ac-
counts payable period. This gap can be filled either by borrowing or by holding a liquidity
reserve for marketable securities. The gap can be shortened by changing the inventory, re-
ceivable, and payable periods. Now we take a closer look at this aspect of short-term fi-
nancial policy.
• What does it mean to say that a firm has an inventory-turnover ratio of four?
• Describe the operating cycle and the cash cycle. What are the differences between them?
27.4 SOME ASPECTS OF SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL POLICY
The policy that a firm adopts for short-term finance will be composed of at least two
elements:
1. The Size of the Firm’s Investment in Current Assets. This is usually measured relative to
the firm’s level of total operating revenues. A flexible or accommodative short-term fi-
nancial policy would maintain a high ratio of current assets to sales. A restrictive short-
term financial policy would entail a low ratio of current assets to sales.
2. The Financing of Current Assets. This is measured as the proportion of short-term debt
to long-term debt. A restrictive short-term financial policy means a high proportion of
short-term debt relative to long-term financing, and a flexible policy means less short-
term debt and more long-term debt.
The Size of the Firm’s Investment in Current Assets
Flexible short-term financial policies include:
1. Keeping large balances of cash and marketable securities.
2. Making large investments in inventory.
3. Granting liberal credit terms, which results in a high level of accounts receivable.
Restrictive short-term financial policies are:
1. Keeping low cash balances and no investment in marketable securities.
2. Making small investments in inventory.
3. Allowing no credit sales and no accounts receivable.
Cash
cycle  Operating
cycle
 Days in
payables
Operating
cycle
 Days in
inventory 
Days in
receivables
Chapter 27
Short-Term Finance and Planning
753
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
759
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Determining the optimal investment level in short-term assets requires an identifica-
tion of the different costs of alternative short-term financing policies. The objective is to
trade off the cost of restrictive policies against those of the flexible ones to arrive at the best
compromise.
Current asset holdings are highest with a flexible short-term financial policy and low-
est with a restrictive policy. Thus, flexible short-term financial policies are costly in that
they require higher cash outflows to finance cash and marketable securities, inventory, and
accounts receivable. However, future cash inflows are highest with a flexible policy. Sales
are stimulated by the use of a credit policy that provides liberal financing to customers. A
large amount of inventory on hand (“on the shelf”) provides a quick delivery service to cus-
tomers and increases in sales.3 In addition, the firm can probably charge higher prices for
the quick delivery service and the liberal credit terms of flexible policies. A flexible policy
also may result in fewer production stoppages because of inventory shortages.4
Managing current assets can be thought of as involving a trade-off between costs that
rise with the level of investment and costs that fall with the level of investment. Costs that
rise with the level of investment in current assets are called carrying costs. Costs that fall
with increases in the level of investment in current assets are called shortage costs.
Carrying costs are generally of two types. First, because the rate of return on current
assets is low compared with that of other assets, there is an opportunity cost. Second, there
is the cost of maintaining the economic value of the item. For example, the cost of ware-
housing inventory belongs here.
Shortage costs are incurred when the investment in current assets is low. If a firm runs
out of cash, it will be forced to sell marketable securities. If a firm runs out of cash and can-
not readily sell marketable securities, it may need to borrow or default on an obligation.
(This general situation is called cash-out.) If a firm has no inventory (a stock-out) or if it
cannot extend credit to its customers, it will lose customers. 
There are two kinds of shortage costs:
1. Trading or Order Costs. Order costs are the costs of placing an order for more cash (bro-
kerage costs) or more inventory (production set-up costs).
2. Costs Related to Safety Reserves. These are costs of lost sales, lost customer goodwill,
and disruption of production schedule.
Figure 27.4 illustrates the basic nature of carrying costs. The total costs of investing in
current assets are determined by adding the carrying costs and the shortage costs. The min-
imum point on the total cost curve (CA*) reflects the optimal balance of current assets. The
curve is generally quite flat at the optimum, and it is difficult, if not impossible, to find the
precise optimal balance of shortage and carrying costs. Usually we are content with a
choice near the optimum.
If carrying costs are low and/or shortage costs are high, the optimal policy calls for sub-
stantial current assets. In other words, the optimal policy is a flexible one. This is illustrated
in the middle graph of Figure 27.4.
If carrying costs are high and/or shortage costs are low, the optimal policy is a restric-
tive one. That is, the optimal policy calls for modest current assets. This is illustrated in the
bottom graph of the figure.
754
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
3This is true of some types of finished goods.
4This is true of inventory of raw material but not of finished goods.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
760
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 27
Short-Term Finance and Planning
755
Dollars
Minimum
point
Total cost of
holding current assets
Carrying costs
Shortage costs
Amount of current assets (CA)
CA*
The optimal amount of
current assets. This point
minimizes costs.
Flexible policy
Dollars
Minimum point
Total cost
Carrying costs
Shortage costs
CA*
Restrictive policy
Dollars
CA*
Minimum point
Total cost
Carrying costs
Shortage costs
Amount of current assets (CA)
Amount of current assets (CA)
I FIGURE 27.4 Carrying Costs and Shortage Costs
Carrying costs increase with the level of investment in current assets. They
include both opportunity costs and the costs of maintaining the asset’s
economic value. Shortage costs decrease with increases in the level of
investment in current assets. They include trading costs and the costs of
running out of the current asset (for example, being short of cash).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
761
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
756
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
Opler, Pinkowitz, Stulz, and Williamson5 examine the determinants of holdings of cash
and marketable securities by publically traded firms. They find evidence that firms behave
according to the static trade-off model described earlier. Their study focuses only on liquid
assets (i.e., cash and market securities), so that carrying costs are the opportunity costs of
holding liquid assets and shortage costs are the risks of not having cash when investment
opportunities are good.
Alternative Financing Policies for Current Assets
In the previous section we examined the level of investment in current assets. Now we turn
to the level of current liabilities, assuming the investment in current assets is optimal.
An Ideal Model
In an ideal economy, short-term assets can always be financed with
short-term debt, and long-term assets can be financed with long-term debt and equity. In
this economy, net working capital is always zero.
Imagine the simple case of a grain-elevator operator. Grain-elevator operators buy
crops after harvest, store them, and sell them during the year. They have high inventories of
grain after the harvest and end with low inventories just before the next harvest.
Bank loans with maturities of less than one year are used to finance the purchase of
grain. These loans are paid with the proceeds from the sale of grain.
The situation is shown in Figure 27.5. Long-term assets are assumed to grow over time,
whereas current assets increase at the end of the harvest and then decline during the year.
Short-term assets end at zero just before the next harvest. These assets are financed by
short-term debt, and long-term assets are financed with long-term debt and equity. Net
working capital—current assets minus current liabilities—is always zero.
DETERMINANTS OF CORPORATE LIQUID
ASSET HOLDINGS
Firms with
Firms with
High Holdings of
Low Holdings of
Liquid Assets Will Have
Liquid Assets Will Have
High-growth opportunities
Low-growth opportunities
High-risk investments
Low-risk investments
Small firms
Large firms
Low-credit firms
High-credit firms
Firms will hold more liquid assets (i.e., cash and marketable securities) to ensure that they
can continue investing when cash flow is low relative to positive NPV investment opportu-
nities. Firms that have good access to capital markets will hold less-liquid assets.
Source: Tim Opler, Lee Pinkowitz, René Stultz, and Rohan Williamson, “The Determinants and
Implication of Corporate Cash Holdings,” Journal of Finance Economics, 62 (1999).
5Tim Opler, Lee Pinkowitz, René Stulz, and Rohan Williamson, “The Determinants and Implication of
Corporate Cash Holdings,” Journal of Financial Economics, 52 (1999).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
762
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Different Strategies in Financing Current Assets
Current assets cannot be expected to
drop to zero in the real world, because a long-term rising level of sales will result in some
permanent investment in current assets. A growing firm can be thought of as having both a
permanent requirement for current assets and one for long-term assets. This total asset re-
quirement will exhibit balances over time reflecting (1) a secular growth trend, (2) a sea-
sonal variation around the trend, and (3) unpredictable day-to-day and month-to-month
fluctuations. This is depicted in Figure 27.6. (We have not tried to show the unpredictable
day-to-day and month-to-month variations in the total asset requirement.)
Now, let us look at how this asset requirement is financed. First, consider the strategy
(strategy F in Figure 27.7) where long-term financing covers more than the total asset re-
quirement, even at seasonal peaks. The firm will have excess cash available for investment
in marketable securities when the total asset requirement falls from peaks. Because this ap-
proach implies chronic short-term cash surpluses and a large investment in net working cap-
ital, it is considered a flexible strategy.
When long-term financing does not cover the total asset requirement, the firm must
borrow short-term to make up the deficit. This restrictive strategy is labeled strategy R in
Figure 27.7.
Chapter 27
Short-Term Finance and Planning
757
Time
Dollars
Current assets = Short-term debt
Fixed assets
Long-term debt
plus common stock
0
1
2
3
4
In an ideal world, net working capital is always zero because
short-term assets are financed by short-term debt.
I FIGURE 27.5 Financing Policy for an Idealized Economy
Dollars
Seasonal
variation
Secular growth in
fixed assets
and permanent current
assets
Time
Total asset
requirement
I FIGURE 27.6 The Total Asset Requirement over Time

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
763
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Which Is Best?
What is the most appropriate amount of short-term borrowing? There is no definitive an-
swer. Several considerations must be included in a proper analysis:
1. Cash Reserves. The flexible financing strategy implies surplus cash and little short-term
borrowing. This strategy reduces the probability that a firm will experience financial dis-
tress. Firms may not need to worry as much about meeting recurring, short-run obliga-
tions. However, investments in cash and marketable securities are zero net-present-value
investments at best.
2. Maturity Hedging. Most firms finance inventories with short-term bank loans and fixed
assets with long-term financing. Firms tend to avoid financing long-lived assets with
short-term borrowing. This type of maturity mismatching would necessitate frequent fi-
nancing and is inherently risky, because short-term interest rates are more volatile than
longer rates.
3. Term Structure. Short-term interest rates are normally lower than long-term interest
rates. This implies that, on average, it is more costly to rely on long-term borrowing than
on short-term borrowing.
758
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
Dollars
Time
Marketable
securities
Strategy F
Total asset
requirement
Long-term
financing
Strategy R
Dollars
Time
Total asset
requirement
Long-term
financing
Short-term
financing
I FIGURE 27.7 Alternative Asset-Financing Policies
Strategy F always implies a short-term cash surplus and a large
investment in cash and marketable securities.
Strategy R uses long-term financing for secular asset requirements
only, and short-term borrowing for seasonal variations.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
764
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
• What keeps the real world from being an ideal one where net working capital could al-
ways be zero?
• What considerations determine the optimal compromise between flexible and restrictive
net working capital policies?
27.5 CASH BUDGETING
The cash budget is a primary tool of short-run financial planning. It allows the financial man-
ager to identify short-term financial needs (and opportunities). It will tell the manager the re-
quired borrowing for the short term. It is the way of identifying the cash-flow gap on the cash-
flow time line. The idea of the cash budget is simple: It records estimates of cash receipts and
disbursements. We illustrate cash budgeting with the following example of Fun Toys.
EXAMPLE
All of Fun Toys’ cash inflows come from the sale of toys. Cash budgeting for Fun
Toys starts with a sales forecast for the next year, by quarter:
First
Second
Third
Fourth
Quarter
Quarter
Quarter
Quarter
Sales ($ millions)
$100
$200
$150
$100
Fun Toys’fiscal year starts on July 1. Fun Toys’sales are seasonal and are usually very
high in the second quarter, due to Christmastime sales. But Fun Toys sells to depart-
ment stores on credit, and sales do not generate cash immediately. Instead, cash comes
later from collections on accounts receivable. Fun Toys has a 90-day collection period,
and 100 percent of sales are collected the following quarter. In other words,
Collections  Last quarter’s sales
This relationship implies that
(27.5)
We assume that sales in the fourth quarter of the previous fiscal year were $100
million. From equation (27.5), we know that accounts receivable at the end of the
fourth quarter of the previous fiscal year were $100 million and collections in the
first quarter of the current fiscal year are $100 million.
The first quarter sales of the current fiscal year of $100 million are added to
the accounts receivable, but $100 million of collections are subtracted. Therefore,
Fun Toys ended the first quarter with accounts receivable of $100 million. The ba-
sic relation is
Table 27.3 shows cash collections for Fun Toys for the next four quarters. Though col-
lections are the only source of cash here,this need not always be the case. Other sources
of cash could include sales of assets, investment income, and long-term financing.
Ending accounts
receivable 
 Starting accounts
receivable
 Sales  Collections
Accounts receivable
at end of last quarter  Last quarter,s
sales
Chapter 27
Short-Term Finance and Planning
759
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
765
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Cash Outflow
Next, we consider the cash disbursements. They can be put into four basic categories, as
shown in Table 27.4.
1. Payments of Accounts Payable. These are payments for goods or services, such as raw
materials. These payments will generally be made after purchases. Purchases will de-
pend on the sales forecast. In the case of Fun Toys, assume that
Payments  Last quarter’s purchases
Purchases  1/2 next quarter’s sales forecast
2. Wages, Taxes, and Other Expenses. This category includes all other normal costs of do-
ing business that require actual expenditures. Depreciation, for example, is often thought
of as a normal cost of business, but it requires no cash outflow.
3. Capital Expenditures. These are payments of cash for long-lived assets. Fun Toys plans
a major capital expenditure in the fourth quarter.
4. Long-Term Financing. This category includes interest and principal payments on long-
term outstanding debt and dividend payments to shareholders.
The total forecasted outflow appears in the last line of Table 27.4.
760
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
I TABLE 27.3 Sources of Cash (in millions)
First
Second
Third
Fourth
Quarter
Quarter
Quarter
Quarter
Sales
$100
$200
$150
$100
Cash collections
100
100
200
150
Starting receivables
100
100
200
150
Ending receivables
100
200
150
100
I TABLE 27.4 Disbursement of Cash (in millions)
First
Second
Third
Fourth
Quarter
Quarter
Quarter
Quarter
Sales
$100
$200
$150
$100
Purchases
100
75
50
50
Uses of cash
Payments of accounts payable
50
100
75
50
Wages, taxes, and other expenses
20
40
30
20
Capital expenditures
0
0
0
100
Long-term financing expenses: interest
and dividends
10
10
10
10
____
____
____
____
Total uses of cash
$ 80
$150
$115
$180

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
766
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The Cash Balance
The net cash balance appears in Table 27.5, and a large net cash outflow is forecast in the
second quarter. This large outflow is not caused by an inability to earn a profit. Rather, it
results from delayed collections on sales. This results in a cumulative cash shortfall of $30
million in the second quarter.
Fun Toys had established a minimum operating cash balance equal to $5 million to fa-
cilitate transactions, protect against unexpected contingencies, and maintain compensating
balances at its commercial banks. This means that it has a cash shortfall in the second quar-
ter equal to $35 million.
• How would you conduct a sensitivity analysis for Fun Toys’ net cash balance?
• What could you learn from such an analysis?
27.6 THE SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL PLAN
Fun Toys has a short-term financing problem. It cannot meet the forecasted cash outflows
in the second quarter from internal sources. Its financing options include: (1) unsecured
bank borrowing, (2) secured borrowing, and (3) other sources.
Unsecured Loans
The most common way to finance a temporary cash deficit is to arrange a short-term unse-
cured bank loan. Firms that use short-term bank loans usually ask their bank for either a
noncommitted or a committed line of credit. A noncommitted line is an informal arrange-
ment that allows firms to borrow up to a previously specified limit without going through
the normal paperwork. The interest rate on the line of credit is usually set equal to the bank’s
prime lending rate plus an additional percentage. Most of the time, banks will also require
that compensating balances be kept at the bank by the firm. For example, a firm might be
required to keep an amount equal to 5 percent on the line of credit.
Committed lines of credit are formal legal arrangements and usually involve a commit-
ment fee paid by the firm to the bank (usually the fee is approximately 0.25 percent of the
total committed funds per year). For larger firms the interest rate is often tied to the London
Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or to the bank’s cost of funds, rather than the prime rate.
Midsized and smaller firms often are required to keep compensating balances in the bank.
Chapter 27
Short-Term Finance and Planning
761
I TABLE 27.5 The Cash Balance (in millions)
First
Second
Third
Fourth
Quarter
Quarter
Quarter
Quarter
Total cash receipts
$100
$100
$200
$150
Total cash disbursements
80
150
115
180
____
____
____
____
Net cash flow
20
(50)
85
(30)
Cumulative excess cash balance
20
(30)
55
25
Minimum cash balance
5
5
5
5
Cumulative finance surplus (deficit)
requirement
15
(35)
50
20
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
767
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Compensating balances are deposits the firm keeps with the bank in low-interest or
noninterest-bearing accounts. Compensating balances are commonly on the order of 2 to 5
percent of the amount used. By leaving these funds with the bank without receiving inter-
est, the firm increases the effective interest earned by the bank on the line of credit. For ex-
ample, if a firm borrowing $100,000 must keep $5,000 as a compensating balance, the firm
effectively receives only $95,000. A stated interest rate of 10 percent implies yearly inter-
est payments of $10,000 ($100,000  0.10). The effective interest rate is 10.53 percent
($10,000/$95,000).
Secured Loans
Banks and other finance companies often require security for a loan. Security for short-term
loans usually consists of accounts receivable or inventories.
Under accounts receivable financing, receivables are either assigned or factored.
Under assignment, the lender not only has a lien on the receivables but also has recourse to
the borrower. Factoring involves the sale of accounts receivable. The purchaser, who is
called a factor, must then collect on the receivables. The factor assumes the full risk of de-
fault on bad accounts.
As the name implies, an inventory loan uses inventory as collateral. Some common
types of inventory loans are
1. Blanket Inventory Lien. The blanket inventory lien gives the lender a lien against all the
borrower’s inventories.
2. Trust Receipt. Under this arrangement, the borrower holds the inventory in trust for the
lender. The document acknowledging the loan is called the trust receipt. Proceeds from
the sale of inventory are remitted immediately to the lender.
3. Field-Warehouse Financing. In field-warehouse financing, a public warehouse company
supervises the inventory for the lender.
Other Sources
There are a variety of other sources of short-term funds employed by corporations. The
most important of these are the issuance of commercial paper and financing through
banker’s acceptances. Commercial paper consists of short-term notes issued by large and
highly rated firms. Typically these notes are of short maturity, ranging up to 270 days (be-
yond that limit the firm must file a registration statement with the SEC). Because the firm
issues these directly and because it usually backs the issue with a special bank line of credit,
the rate the firm obtains is often significantly below the prime rate the bank would charge
it for a direct loan.
A banker’s acceptance is an agreement by a bank to pay a sum of money. These
agreements typically arise when a seller sends a bill or draft to a customer. The cus-
tomer’s bank accepts this bill and notes the acceptance on it, which makes it an obliga-
tion of the bank. In this way a firm that is buying something from a supplier can effec-
tively arrange for the bank to pay the outstanding bill. Of course, the bank charges the
customer a fee for this service.
• What are the two basic forms of short-term financing?
• Describe two types of secured loans.
762
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
768
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
27.7 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1. This chapter introduces the management of short-term finance. Short-term finance involves
short-lived assets and liabilities. We trace and examine the short-term sources and uses of
cash as they appear on the firm’s financial statements. We see how current assets and current
liabilities arise in the short-term operating activities and the cash cycle of the firm. From an
accounting perspective, short-term finance involves net working capital.
2. Managing short-term cash flows involves the minimization of costs. The two major costs are
carrying costs—the interest and related costs incurred by overinvesting in short-term assets
such as cash—and shortage costs, the cost of running out of short-term assets. The objective
of managing short-term finance and short-term financial planning is to find the optimal trade-
off between these two costs.
3. In an ideal economy the firm could perfectly predict its short-term uses and sources of cash,
and net working capital could be kept at zero. In the real world, net working capital provides
a buffer that lets the firm meet its ongoing obligations. The financial manager seeks the
optimal level of each of the current assets.
4. The financial manager can use the cash budget to identify short-term financial needs. The
cash budget tells the manager what borrowing is required or what lending will be possible in
the short run. The firm has available to it a number of possible ways of acquiring funds to
meet short-term shortfalls, including unsecured and secured loans.
KEY TERMS
Accounts receivable financing
762
Compensating balance
762
Banker’s acceptances
762
Inventory loan
762
Carrying costs
754
Liquidity
746
Cash budget
759
Operating cycle
751
Cash cycle
751
Shortage costs
754
Cash flow time line
751
Short-run operating activities
750
Commercial paper
762
SUGGESTED READINGS
A book that describes working capital management is:
Fabozzi, F., and L. N. Masonson. Corporate Cash Management Techniques and Analyses.
Homewood, Ill.: Dow Jones–Irwin, 1985.
Kallberg, J. G., and K. Parkinson. Corporate Liquidity: Management and Measurement. Burr
Ridge, IL: Irwin/McGraw Hill, 1996.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Tracing Cash and Net Working Capital
27.1 Derive the cash equation from the basic balance sheet equation: assets  liabilities  equity.
27.2 Indicate whether the following corporate actions increase, decrease, or cause no change
to cash.
Chapter 27
Short-Term Finance and Planning
763

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
769
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
a. Cash is paid for raw materials purchased for inventory.
b. A dividend is paid.
c. Merchandise is sold on credit.
d. Common stock is issued.
e. Raw material is purchased for inventory on credit.
f. A piece of machinery is purchased and paid for with long-term debt.
g. Payments for previous sales are collected.
h. Accumulated depreciation is increased.
i. Merchandise is sold for cash.
j. Payment is made for a previous purchase.
k. A short-term bank loan is received.
l. A dividend is paid with funds received from a sale of common stock.
m. Allowance for bad debts is decreased.
n. A piece of office equipment is purchased and paid for with a short-term note.
o. Marketable securities are purchased with retained earnings.
p. Last year’s taxes are paid.
q. This year’s tax liability is increased.
r. Interest on long-term debt is paid.
Defining Cash in Terms of Other Elements
27.3 Below are the 20X2 balance sheet and income statement for Country Kettles, Inc. Use this
information to construct a sources-and-uses-of-cash statement.
COUNTRY KETTLES, INC.
Balance Sheet
December 31, 20X2
20X2
20X1
Assets
Cash . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 42,000
$ 35,000
Accounts receivable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
94,250
84,500
Inventory  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
78,750
75,000
Property, plant, equipment  . . . . . . . . . . . .
181,475
168,750
Less: Accumulated depreciation . . . . . .
61,475
56,250
________
________
Total assets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $335,000
$307,000
________
________
________
________
Liabilities and Equity
Accounts payable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 60,500
$ 55,000
Accrued expenses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5,150
8,450
Long-term debt  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
15,000
30,000
Common stock  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
28,000
25,000
Retained earnings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
226,350
188,550
________
________
Total liabilities and equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . $335,000
$307,000
________
________
________
________
764
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
770
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
COUNTRY KETTLES, INC.
Income Statement
20X2
Net sales  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $765,000
Cost of goods sold . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
459,000
Sales, general, and administrative costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
91,800
Advertising  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
26,775
Rent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
45,000
Depreciation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5,225
________
Profit before taxes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
137,200
Taxes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
68,600
________
Net profit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 68,600
________
________
Dividends  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 30,800
Retained earnings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 37,800
27.4 Following are the 20X2 balance sheet and income statement for the S/B Corporation. Use
them to construct a sources-and-uses-of-cash statement.
S/B CORPORATION
Balance Sheet
December 31, 20X2
(in thousands)
20X2
20X1
Assets
Cash . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $
388
$
375
Accounts receivable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,470
1,219
Inventories . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2,663
2,777
Net fixed assets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9,314
9,225
_______
_______
Total assets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $13,835
$13,596
_______
_______
_______
_______
Liabilities and Equity
Accounts payable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $
282
$
259
Bank loan payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,300
924
Taxes payable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(33)
99
Accrued expenses payable  . . . . . . . . . . . . .
95
106
Mortgage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4,000
4,000
Common stock  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4,000
4,000
Retained earnings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4,191
4,208
_______
_______
Total liabilities and equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $13,835
$13,596
_______
_______
_______
_______
Chapter 27
Short-Term Finance and Planning
765

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
771
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
S/B CORPORATION
Income Statement
20X2
(in thousands)
Net sales  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1,030
Cost of goods sold:
Materials  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
652
Overhead  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
64
Depreciation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50
_____
Gross profit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
264
Selling and administrative costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
98
______
Profit before taxes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
166
Taxes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
83
______
Net profit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $
83
______
______
Dividends paid  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 100
The Operating Cycle and Cost Cycle
27.5 On Eastern Printing Machines Co.’s income statement of 20X1, the cost of goods sold and
the credit sales are $200 million and $240 million, respectively. The following data are
from its balance sheets.
($ millions)
Dec. 31, 20X1
Dec. 31, 20X2
Inventory
$40
$60
Accounts receivable
30
50
Accounts payable
10
30
a. How many days is Eastern Printing Machines’ operating cycle?
b. How many days is Eastern Printing Machines’ cash cycle?
27.6 Define:
a. Operating cycle
b. Cash cycle
c. Accounts payable period
27.7 Indicate whether the following company actions increase, decrease, or cause no change to
the cash cycle and the operating cycle.
a. The use of discounts offered by suppliers is decreased.
b. More finished goods are being produced for orders instead of for inventory.
c. A greater percentage of raw materials purchases is paid for with cash.
d. The terms of discounts offered to customers are made more favorable for the
customers.
e. A larger than usual amount of raw materials is purchased as a result of a price
decline.
f. An increased number of customers pays with cash instead of credit.
Some Aspects of Short-Term Financial Policy
27.8 a. Define flexible short-term financing.
b. Define restrictive short-term financing.
c. When is flexible short-term financing optimal?
d. When is restrictive short-term financing optimal?
27.9 What are the costs of shortages? Describe them.
766
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
772
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
27.10 Cleveland Compressor and Pnew York Pneumatic are competing manufacturing firms.
Their financial statements are printed below.
a. How are the current assets of each firm financed?
b. Which firm has the larger investment in current assets? Why?
c. Which firm is more likely to incur carrying costs, and which is more likely to incur
shortage costs? Why?
CLEVELAND COMPRESSOR
Balance Sheet
December 31, 20X1
20X2
20X1
Assets
Cash . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 13,862
$ 16,339
Net accounts receivable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
23,887
25,778
Inventory  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
54,867
43,287
_______
_______
Total current assets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 92,616
$ 85,404
Fixed assets:
Plant, property, and equipment  . . . . . . .
101,543
99,615
Less: Accumulated depreciation . . . .
34,331
31,957
_______
_______
Net fixed assets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 67,212
$ 67,658
Prepaid expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,914
1,791
Other assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13,052
13,138
_______
_______
Total assets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $174,794
$167,991
_______
_______
_______
_______
20X2
20X1
Liabilities and Equity
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $
6,494
$
4,893
Notes payable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10,483
11,617
Accrued expenses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7,422
7,227
Other taxes payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9,924
8,460
_______
_______
Total current liabilities  . . . . . . . . . . .
34,323
32,197
Long-term debt  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
22,036
22,036
_______
_______
Total liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 56,359
$ 54,233
Equity:
Common stock  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
38,000
38,000
Paid-in capital  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12,000
12,000
Retained earnings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
68,435
63,758
_______
_______
Total equity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
118,435
113,758
_______
_______
Total liabilities and equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . $174,794
$167,991
_______
_______
_______
_______
Chapter 27
Short-Term Finance and Planning
767

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
773
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
CLEVELAND COMPRESSOR
Income Statement
20X2
Income:
Sales  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $162,749
Other income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,002
_______
Total income  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $163,751
Operating expenses:
Cost of goods sold . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
103,570
Selling and administrative expenses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
28,495
Depreciation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2,274
_______
Total expenses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $134,339
_______
Pretax earnings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
29,412
Taxes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
14,890
_______
Net earnings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 14,522
_______
_______
Dividends  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $
9,845
Retained earnings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $
4,677
PNEW YORK PNEUMATIC
Balance Sheet
December 31, 20X2
20X2
20X1
Assets
Cash . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 5,794
$ 3,307
Net accounts receivable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
26,177
22,133
Inventory  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
46,463
44,661
_______
_______
Total current assets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
78,434
70,101
Fixed assets:
Plant, property, and equipment  . . . . . . . .
31,842
31,116
Less: Accumulated depreciation . . . . .
19,297
18,143
_______
_______
Net fixed assets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12,545
12,973
Prepaid expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
763
688
Other assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,601
1,385
_______
_______
Total assets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $93,343
$85,147
_______
_______
_______
_______
Liabilities and Equity
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 6,008
$ 5,019
Bank loans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3,722
645
Accrued expenses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4,254
3,295
Other taxes payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5,688
4,951
_______
_______
Total current liabilities  . . . . . . . . . .
19,672
13,910
Equity:
Common stock  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
20,576
20,576
Paid-in capital  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5,624
5,624
Retained earnings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
48,598
46,164
Less: Treasury stock  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,127
1,127
_______
_______
Total equity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
73,671
71,237
_______
_______
Total liabilities and equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $93,343
$85,147
_______
_______
_______
_______
768
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
774
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
PNEW YORK PNEUMATIC
Income Statement
20X2
Income:
Sales  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $91,374
Other income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,067
______
Total income  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
92,441
Operating expenses:
Cost of goods sold . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
59,042
Selling and administrative expenses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18,068
Depreciation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,154
______
Total expenses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
78,264
______
Pretax earnings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
14,177
Taxes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6,838
______
Net earnings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 7,339
______
______
Dividends  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 4,905
Retained earnings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 2,434
27.11 In an ideal economy, net working capital is always zero. Why might net working capital
be greater than zero in the real world?
Cash Budgeting
27.12 The following is the sales budget for the Smithe and Wreston Company for the first
quarter of 20X1.
January
February
March
Sales budget
$90,000
$100,000
$120,000
The aging of credit sales is
30 percent collected in the month of sale
40 percent collected in the month after sale
The accounts receivable balance at the end of the previous quarter is $36,000. $30,000 of
that amount is uncollected December sales.
a. Compute the sales for December.
b. Compute the cash collections from sales for each month from January through March.
27.13 The sales budget for your company in the coming year is based on a 20-percent quarterly
growth rate with the first quarter projection at $100 million. In addition to this basic
trend, the seasonal adjustments for the four quarters are 0, 10, 5, and 15 million
dollars, respectively. Generally, 30 percent of the sales can be collected within the month
and 50 percent in the following month; the rest of the sales are bad debt. All sales are
credit sales. Compute the cash collections from sales for each quarter from the second to
the fourth quarter.
27.14 Below are some important figures from the budget of Pine Mulch Company for the
second quarter of 20X2.
April
May
June
Credit sales
$160,000
$140,000
$192,000
Credit purchases
68,000
64,000
80,000
Cash disbursements:
Wages, taxes, and expenses
8,000
7,000
8,400
Interest
3,000
3,000
3,000
Equipment purchases
50,000
4,000
Chapter 27
Short-Term Finance and Planning
769

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
27. Short−Term Finance 
and Planning
775
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The company predicts that 10 percent of its sales will never be collected; 50 percent of
its sales will be collected in the month of the sale; and the rest of its sales will be
collected in the following month. Purchases on trade accounts will be paid in the month
following the purchase. In March 20X2 the sales were $180,000.
Use this information to complete the following cash budget:
April
May
June
Beginning cash balance
$200,000
Cash receipts:
Cash collections from credit sales
Total cash available
Cash disbursements:
Pay credit purchases
$ 65,000
Wages, taxes, and expenses
Interest
Equipment purchases
Total cash disbursed
Ending cash balance
27.15 What are the most important considerations in deciding the most appropriate amount of
short-term borrowing?
The Short-Term Financial Plan
27.16 List several short-term external financing options.
770
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
776
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Cash Management
CHAPTER 28
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
T
he balance sheet of Singapore Airlines showed total assets of $8.7 billion in
March 1994. On this basis, Singapore Airlines was one of the largest transporta-
tion firms in the world. In addition, Singapore Airlines held $62.4 million in cash.
This cash included currency, demand deposits at commercial banks, and undeposited
checks.1
Since cash earns no interest, why would Singapore Airlines hold cash? It would
seem more sensible for Singapore Airlines to put its cash into marketable securities,
such as Treasury bills, and get some investment income. Of course, one reason
Singapore Airlines holds cash is to pay for goods and services. Singapore Airlines
might prefer to pay its employees in Treasury bills, but the minimum denomination of
Treasury bills is $10,000! The firm must use cash because cash is more divisible than
Treasury bills.2
This chapter is about how firms manage cash. The basic objective in cash management
is to keep the investment in cash as low as possible while still operating the firm’s activities
efficiently and effectively. This chapter separates cash management into three steps:
1. Determining the appropriate target cash balance.
2. Collecting and disbursing cash efficiently.
3. Investing excess cash in marketable securities.
Determining the appropriate target cash balance involves an assessment of the trade-
off between the benefit and cost of liquidity. The benefit of holding cash is the convenience
in liquidity it gives the firm. The cost of holding cash is the interest income that the firm
could have received from investing in Treasury bills and other marketable securities. If the
firm has achieved its target cash balance, the value it gets from the liquidity provided by its
cash will be exactly equal to the value forgone in interest on an equivalent holding of
Treasury bills. In other words, a firm should increase its holding of cash until the net pres-
ent value from doing so is zero. The incremental liquidity value of cash should decline as
more of it is held.
After the optimal amount of liquidity is determined, the firm must establish procedures
so that cash is collected and disbursed as efficiently as possible. This usually reduces to the
dictum, “collect early and pay late.”
Firms must invest temporarily idle cash in short-term marketable securities. These se-
curities can be bought and sold in the money market. Money-market securities have very lit-
tle risk of default and are highly marketable.
1It was somewhat unusual for Singapore Airlines to report cash in this way. Usually, a firm’s reported cash
includes cash equivalents, such as Treasury bills.
2Cash is liquid. One property of liquidity is divisibility, that is, how easily an asset can be divided into parts.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
777
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
28.1 REASONS FOR HOLDING CASH
The term cash is a surprisingly imprecise concept. The economic definition of cash includes
currency, checking account deposits at commercial banks, and undeposited checks. How-
ever, financial managers often use the term cash to include short-term marketable securi-
ties. Short-term marketable securities are frequently referred to as “cash equivalents” and
include Treasury bills, certificates of deposit, and repurchase agreements. (Several differ-
ent types of short-term marketable securities are described at the end of this chapter.) The
balance sheet item “cash” usually includes cash equivalents.3
The previous chapter discussed the management of net working capital. Net working
capital includes both cash and cash equivalents. This chapter is concerned with cash, not
net working capital, and it focuses on the narrow economic definition of cash.
The basic elements of net working capital management such as carrying costs, short-
age costs, and opportunity costs are relevant for cash management. However, cash man-
agement is more concerned with how to minimize cash balances by collecting and disburs-
ing cash effectively.
There are two primary reasons for holding cash. First, cash is needed to satisfy the
transactions motive. Transactions-related needs come from normal disbursement and col-
lection activities of the firm. The disbursement of cash includes the payment of wages and
salaries, trade debts, taxes, and dividends. Cash is collected from sales from operations, sales
of assets, and new financing. The cash inflows (collections) and outflows (disbursements) are
not perfectly synchronized, and some level of cash holdings is necessary to serve as a buffer. If
the firm maintains too small a cash balance, it may run out of cash. If so, it must sell marketable
securities or borrow. Selling marketable securities and borrowing involve trading costs.
Another reason to hold cash is for compensating balances. Cash balances are kept at
commercial banks to compensate for banking services rendered to the firm. A minimum re-
quired compensating balance at banks providing credit services to the firm may impose a
lower limit on the level of cash a firm holds.
The cash balance for most firms can be thought of as consisting of transactions bal-
ances and compensating balances. However, it would not be correct for a firm to add the
amount of cash required to satisfy its transactions needs to the amount of cash needed to
satisfy its compensatory balances to produce a target cash balance. The same cash can be
used to satisfy both requirements.
The cost of holding cash is, of course, the opportunity cost of lost interest. To deter-
mine the target cash balance, the firm must weigh the benefits of holding cash against the
costs. It is generally a good idea for firms to figure out first how much cash to hold to sat-
isfy the transactions needs. Next, the firm must consider compensating-balance require-
ments, which will impose a lower limit on the level of the firm’s cash holdings. Because
compensating balances merely provide a lower limit, we shall ignore compensating bal-
ances for the following discussion of the target cash balance.
772
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
3Many firms hold very large balances of cash and cash equivalents. In 1997 the largest balances included:
(in $ billions)
Ford
$18.5
General Motors
10.1
Microsoft
9.1
Intel
8.5
IBM
6.5
The reasons firms hold large balances of cash and equivalents include precautionary balances such as in the case
of a recession or large anticipated spending on dividends, stock repurchases, stock options, or capital investment.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
778
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
• What is the transactions motive, and how does it lead firms to hold cash?
• What is a compensating balance?
28.2 DETERMINING THE TARGET CASH BALANCE
The target cash balance involves a trade-off between the opportunity costs of holding too
much cash and the trading costs of holding too little. Figure 28.1 presents the problem
graphically. If a firm tries to keep its cash holdings too low, it will find itself selling mar-
ketable securities (and perhaps later buying marketable securities to replace those sold)
more frequently than if the cash balance was higher. Thus, trading costs will tend to fall as
the cash balance becomes larger. In contrast, the opportunity costs of holding cash rise as
the cash holdings rise. At point C* in Figure 28.1, the sum of both costs, depicted as the to-
tal cost curve, is at a minimum. This is the target or optimal cash balance.
The Baumol Model
William Baumol was the first to provide a formal model of cash management incorporating op-
portunity costs and trading costs.4 His model can be used to establish the target cash balance.
Suppose the Golden Socks Corporation began week 0 with a cash balance of C  $1.2
million, and outflows exceed inflows by $600,000 per week. Its cash balance will drop to zero
at the end of week 2, and its average cash balance will be C/2  $1.2 million/2  $600,000
over the two-week period. At the end of week 2, Golden Socks must replace its cash either by
selling marketable securities or by borrowing. Figure 28.2 shows this situation.
Chapter 28
Cash Management
773
4W. S. Baumol, “The Transactions Demand for Cash: An Inventory Theoretic Approach,” Quarterly Journal of
Economics 66 (November 1952).
C*
Cost in dollars
of holding cash
Total costs of holding cash
Opportunity costs
Trading costs
Size of cash balance (C)
Optimal size
of cash balance
I FIGURE 28.1 Costs of Holding Cash
Trading costs are increased when the firm must sell securities to establish a
cash balance. Opportunity costs are increased when there is a cash balance
because there is no return to cash.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
779
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
If C were set higher, say, at $2.4 million, cash would last four weeks before the firm
would need to sell marketable securities, but the firm’s average cash balance would increase
to $1.2 million (from $600,000). If C were set at $600,000, cash would run out in one week
and the firm would need to replenish cash more frequently, but its average cash balance
would fall from $600,000 to $300,000.
Because transactions costs must be incurred whenever cash is replenished (for exam-
ple, the brokerage costs of selling marketable securities), establishing large initial cash bal-
ances will lower the trading costs connected with cash management. However, the larger
the average cash balance, the greater the opportunity cost (the return that could have been
earned on marketable securities).
To solve this problem, Golden Socks needs to know the following three things:
F  The fixed cost of selling securities to replenish cash
T  The total amount of new cash needed for transactions purposes over the
relevant planning period, say, one year
and
K  The opportunity cost of holding cash; this is the interest rate on marketable
securities
With this information, Golden Socks can determine the total costs of any particular cash-
balance policy. It can then determine the optimal cash-balance policy.
The Opportunity Costs
The total opportunity costs of cash balances, in dollars, must be
equal to the average cash balance multiplied by the interest rate, or
Opportunity costs ($)  (C/2)  K
The opportunity costs of various alternatives are given here:
Initial
Average
Opportunity
Cash Balance
Cash Balance
Costs (K  0.10)
C
C/2
(C/2)  K
$4,800,000
$2,400,000
$240,000
2,400,000
1,200,000
120,000
1,200,000
600,000
60,000
600,000
300,000
30,000
300,000
150,000
15,000
774
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
Weeks
Starting cash:
C = $1,200,000
$600,000 = C/2
Ending cash: 0
0
1
2
3
4
Average cash
I FIGURE 28.2 Cash Balances for the Golden Socks Corporation
The Golden Socks Corporation begins week 0 with cash
of $1,200,000. The balance drops to zero by the second
week. The average cash balance is C/2  $1,200,000/2
 $600,000 over the period.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
780
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The Trading Costs
Total trading costs can be determined by calculating the number of
times that Golden Socks must sell marketable securities during the year. The total amount
of cash disbursement during the year is $600,000  52 weeks  $31.2 million. If the ini-
tial cash balance is set at $1.2 million, Golden Socks will sell $1.2 million of marketable
securities every two weeks. Thus, trading costs are given by
The general formula is
Trading costs ($)  (T/C)  F
A schedule of alternative trading costs follows:
Total
Initial
Trading
Disbursements
Cash
Costs
during Relevant Period
Balance
(F  $1,000)
T
C
(T/C)  F
$31,200,000
$4,800,000
$
6,500
31,200,000
2,400,000
13,000
31,200,000
1,200,000
26,000
31,200,000
600,000
52,000
31,200,000
300,000
104,000
The Total Cost
The total cost of cash balances consists of the opportunity costs plus the
trading costs:
Total cost  Opportunity costs  Trading costs
 (C/2)  K  (T/C)  F
Cash
Total

Opportunity

Trading
Balance
Cost
Costs
Costs
$4,800,000
$246,500
$240,000
$
6,500
2,400,000
133,000
120,000
13,000
1,200,000
86,000
60,000
26,000
600,000
82,000
30,000
52,000
300,000
119,000
15,000
104,000
The Solution
We can see from the preceding schedule that a $600,000 cash balance re-
sults in the lowest total cost of the possibilities presented: $82,000. But what about
$700,000 or $500,000 or other possibilities? To determine minimum total costs precisely,
Golden Socks must equate the marginal reduction in trading costs as balances rise with the
marginal increase in opportunity costs associated with cash balance increases. The target
cash balance should be the point where the two offset each other. This can be calculated by
using either numerical iteration or calculus. We will use calculus, but if you are unfamiliar
with such an analysis, you can skip to the solution.
Recall that the total cost equation is
Total cost (TC)  (C/2)  K  (T/C)  F
$31.2 million
$1.2 million  F  26F
Chapter 28
Cash Management
775

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
781
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
If we differentiate the TC equation with respect to the cash balance and set the derivative
equal to zero, we will find that
The solution for the general cash balance, C*, is obtained by solving this equation for C:
If F  $1,000, T  $31,200,000, and K  0.10, then C*  $789,936.71. Given the value
of C*, opportunity costs are
Trading costs are
Hence, total costs are
$39,496.84  $39,496.84  $78,993.68
Limitations
The Baumol model represents an important contribution to cash manage-
ment. The limitations of the model include the following:
1. The Model Assumes the Firm Has a Constant Disbursement Rate. In practice, disburse-
ments can be only partially managed, because due dates differ and costs cannot be pre-
dicted with certainty.
2. The Model Assumes There Are No Cash Receipts during the Projected Period. In fact,
most firms experience both cash inflows and outflows on a daily basis.
3. No Safety Stock Is Allowed For. Firms will probably want to hold a safety stock of cash
designed to reduce the possibility of a cash shortage or cash-out. However, to the extent
that firms can sell marketable securities or borrow in a few hours, the need for a safety
stock is minimal.
The Baumol model is possibly the simplest and most stripped-down sensible model for
determining the optimal cash position. Its chief weakness is that it assumes discrete, certain
cash flows. We next discuss a model designed to deal with uncertainty.
The Miller-Orr Model
Merton Miller and Daniel Orr developed a cash-balance model to deal with cash inflows
and outflows that fluctuate randomly from day to day.6 In the Miller-Orr model, both cash
inflows and cash outflows are included. The model assumes that the distribution of daily
TC*   F  $31,200,000
$789,936.71  $1,000  $39,496.84
C*2  K  $789,936.71
2
 0.10  $39,496.84
C*  2TFK
K
2  TF
C2
Marginal
total
cost

Marginal
opportunity
costs

Marginal
trading
costs
5
dTC
dC  K
2  TF
C2  0
776
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
5Marginal trading costs are negative because trading costs are reduced when C is increased.
6M. H. Miller and D. Orr, “A Model of the Demand for Money by Firms,” Quarterly Journal of Economics
(August 1966).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
782
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
net cash flows (cash inflow minus cash outflow) is normally distributed. On each day the
net cash flow could be the expected value or some higher or lower value. We will assume
that the expected net cash flow is zero.
Figure 28.3 shows how the Miller-Orr model works. The model operates in terms of
upper (H) and lower (L) control limits, and a target cash balance (Z). The firm allows its
cash balance to wander randomly within the lower and upper limits. As long as the cash bal-
ance is between H and L, the firm makes no transaction. When the cash balance reaches H,
such as at point X, then the firm buys H  Z units (or dollars) of marketable securities. This
action will decrease the cash balance to Z. In the same way, when cash balances fall to L,
such as at point Y (the lower limit), the firm should sell Z  L securities and increase the
cash balance to Z. In both situations, cash balances return to Z. Management sets the lower
limit, L, depending on how much risk of a cash shortfall the firm is willing to tolerate.
Like the Baumol model, the Miller-Orr model depends on trading costs and opportu-
nity costs. The cost per transaction of buying and selling marketable securities, F, is as-
sumed to be fixed. The percentage opportunity cost per period of holding cash, K, is the
daily interest rate on marketable securities. Unlike the Baumol model, the number of trans-
actions per period is a random variable that varies from period to period, depending on the
pattern of cash inflows and outflows.
As a consequence, trading costs per period are dependent on the expected number of
transactions in marketable securities during the period. Similarly, the opportunity costs of
holding cash are a function of the expected cash balance per period.
Given L, which is set by the firm, the Miller-Orr model solves for the target cash bal-
ance, Z, and the upper limit, H. Expected total costs of the cash-balance–return policy (Z,
H) are equal to the sum of expected transactions costs and expected opportunity costs. The
values of Z (the return-cash point) and H (the upper limit) that minimize the expected total
cost have been determined by Miller and Orr:
H*  3Z*  2L
where * denotes optimal values, and 2 is the variance of net daily cash flows.
The average cash balance in the Miller-Orr model is
Average cash balance  4Z  L
3
Z* 
33F24K  L
Chapter 28
Cash Management
777
Cash ($)
Time
H
Z
L
X
Y
I FIGURE 28.3 The Miller-Orr Model
H is the upper control limit. L is the lower control
limit. The target cash balance is Z. As long as
cash is between L and H, no transaction is made.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
783
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
To clarify the Miller-Orr model, suppose F  $1,000, the interest rate is 10 per-
cent annually, and the standard deviation of daily net cash flows is $2,000. The
daily opportunity cost, K, is
(1  K)365  1.0  0.10
K  0.000261
The variance of daily net cash flows is
2  (2,000)2  4,000,000
Let us assume that L  0:
H*  3  $22,568  $67,704
Implications of the Miller-Orr Model
To use the Miller-Orr model, the manager must
do four things.
1. Set the lower control limit for the cash balance. This lower limit can be related to a min-
imum safety margin decided on by management.
2. Estimate the standard deviation of daily cash flows.
3. Determine the interest rate.
4. Estimate the trading costs of buying and selling marketable securities.
These four steps allow the upper limit and return point to be computed. Miller and Orr
tested their model using nine months of data for cash balances for a large industrial firm.
The model was able to produce average daily cash balances much lower than the averages
actually obtained by the firm.7
The Miller-Orr model clarifies the issues of cash management. First, the model shows
that the best return point, Z*, is positively related to trading costs, F, and negatively related
to K. This finding is consistent with and analogous to the Baumol model. Second, the
Miller-Orr model shows that the best return point and the average cash balance are posi-
tively related to the variability of cash flows. That is, firms whose cash flows are subject to
greater uncertainty should maintain a larger average cash balance.
Other Factors Influencing the Target Cash Balance
Borrowing
In our previous examples, the firm has obtained cash by selling marketable
securities. Another alternative is to borrow cash. Borrowing introduces additional consid-
erations to cash management.
Average cash balance  4  $22,568
3
 $30,091

3$11,493,900,000,000  $22,568
Z* 
33  $1,000  4,000,000 4  0.000261  0
1  K 
365
1.10  1.000261
778
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
7D. Mullins and R. Hamonoff discuss tests of the Miller-Orr model in “Applications of Inventory Cash
Management Models,” in Modern Developments in Financial Management, ed. by S. C. Myers (New York:
Praeger, 1976). They show that the model works very well when compared to the actual cash balances of several
firms. However, simple rules of thumb do as good a job as the Miller-Orr model.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
784
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
1. Borrowing is likely to be more expensive than selling marketable securities because the
interest rate is likely to be higher.
2. The need to borrow will depend on management’s desire to hold low cash balances. A
firm is more likely to need to borrow to cover an unexpected cash outflow the greater its
cash flow variability and the lower its investment in marketable securities.
Compensating Balance
The costs of trading securities are well below the lost income
from holding cash for large firms. Consider a firm faced with either selling $2 million
of Treasury bills to replenish cash or leaving the money idle overnight. The daily op-
portunity cost of $2 million at a 10-percent annual interest rate is 0.10/365  0.027 per-
cent per day. The daily return earned on $2 million is 0.00027  $2 million  $540. The
cost of selling $2 million of Treasury bills is much less than $540. As a consequence, a
large firm will buy and sell securities many times a day before it will leave substantial
amounts idle overnight.
However, most large firms hold more cash than cash-balance models imply. Here are
some possible reasons.
1. Firms have cash in the bank as a compensating balance in payment for banking services.
2. Large corporations have thousands of accounts with several dozen banks. Sometimes it
makes more sense to leave cash alone than to manage each account on a daily basis.
• What is a target cash balance?
• What are the strengths and weaknesses of the Baumol model and the Miller-Orr model?
28.3 MANAGING THE COLLECTION AND
DISBURSEMENT OF CASH
A firm’s cash balance as reported in its financial statements (book cash or ledger cash) is
not the same thing as the balance shown in its bank account (bank cash or collected bank
cash). The difference between bank cash and book cash is called float and represents the
net effect of checks in the process of collection.
EXAMPLE
Imagine that General Mechanics, Inc., (GMI) currently has $100,000 on deposit
with its bank. It purchases some raw materials, paying its vendors with a check
written on July 8 for $100,000. The company’s books (that is, ledger balances)
are changed to show the $100,000 reduction in the cash balance. But the firm’s
bank will not find out about this check until it has been deposited at the vendor’s
bank and has been presented to the firm’s bank for payment on, say, July 15. Un-
til the check’s presentation, the firm’s bank cash is greater than its book cash, and
it has positive float.
Position Prior to July 8:
Float  Firm’s bank cash  Firm’s book cash
 $100,000

$100,000

0
Chapter 28
Cash Management
779
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
785
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Position from July 8 through July 14:
Disbursement float  Firm’s bank cash  Firm’s book cash
 $100,000

0
 $100,000
During the period of time that the check is clearing, GMI has a balance with the
bank of $100,000. It can obtain the benefit of this cash while the check is clearing.
For example, the bank cash could be invested in marketable securities. Checks
written by the firm generate disbursement float, causing an immediate decrease in
book cash but no immediate change in bank cash.
EXAMPLE
Imagine that GMI receives a check from a customer for $100,000. Assume, as be-
fore, that the company has $100,000 deposited at its bank and has a neutral float
position. It deposits the check and increases its book cash by $100,000 on No-
vember 8. However, the cash is not available to GMI until its bank has presented
the check to the customer’s bank and received $100,000 on, say, November 15. In
the meantime, the cash position at GMI will reflect a collection float of $100,000.
Position Prior to November 8:
Float  Firm’s bank cash  Firm’s book cash
 $100,000

$100,000

0
Position from November 8 through November 14:
Collection float  Firm’s bank cash  Firm’s book cash
 $100,000

$200,000
 $100,000
Checks received by the firm represent collection float, which increases book cash imme-
diately but does not immediately change bank cash. The firm is helped by disbursement float
and is hurt by collection float. The sum of disbursement float and collection float is net float.
A firm should be more concerned with net float and bank cash than with book cash. If
a financial manager knows that a check will not clear for several days, he or she will be able
to keep a lower cash balance at the bank than might be true otherwise. Good float manage-
ment can generate a great deal of money. For example, the average daily sales of Exxon are
about $248 million. If Exxon speeds up the collection process or slows down the disburse-
ment process by one day, it frees up $248 million, which can be invested in marketable se-
curities. With an interest rate of 10 percent, this represents overnight interest of approxi-
mately $68,000 [($248 million/365)  0.10].
Float management involves controlling the collection and disbursement of cash. The
objective in cash collection is to reduce the lag between the time customers pay their bills
and the time the checks are collected. The objective in cash disbursement is to slow down
payments, thereby increasing the time between when checks are written and when checks
are presented. In other words, collect early and pay late. Of course, to the extent that the
firm succeeds in doing this, the customers and suppliers lose money, and the trade-off is the
effect on the firm’s relationship with them.
780
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
786
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Collection float can be broken down into three parts: mail float, in-house processing
float, and availability float:
1. Mail Float is the part of the collection and disbursement process where checks are
trapped in the postal system.
2. In-House Processing Float is the time it takes the receiver of a check to process the pay-
ment and deposit it in a bank for collection.
3. Availability Float refers to the time required to clear a check through the banking sys-
tem. The clearing process takes place using the Federal Reserve check collection ser-
vice, using correspondent banks, or using local clearinghouses.
EXAMPLE
A check for $1,000 is mailed from a customer on Monday, September 1. Be-
cause of mail, processing, and clearing delays, it is not credited as available cash
in the firm’s bank until the following Monday, seven days later. The float for this
check is
Float  $1,000  7 days  $7,000
Another check for $7,000 is mailed on September 1. It is available on the next day.
The float for this check is
Float  $7,000  1 day  $7,000
The measurement of float depends on the time lag and the dollars involved.
The cost of float is an opportunity cost, because the cash is unavailable for use dur-
ing the time checks are tied up in the collection process. The cost of float can be
determined by (1) estimating the average daily receipts, (2) calculating the aver-
age delay in obtaining the receipts, and (3) discounting the average daily receipts
by the delay-adjusted cost of capital.
EXAMPLE
Suppose that Concepts, Inc., has two receipts each month:
Number of 
Amount
Days’ Delay
Float
Item 1
$5,000,000
 3 
$15,000,000
Item 2
3,000,000
 5 
15,000,000
_________
__________
Total
$8,000,000
$30,000,000
The average daily float over the month is equal to
Average Daily Float:
Another procedure that can be used to calculate average daily float is to determine
average daily receipts and multiply by the average daily delay.
Total float
Total days  $30,000,000
30
 $1,000,000
Chapter 28
Cash Management
781

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
787
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Average Daily Receipts:
Weighted average delay  (5/8)  3  (3/8)  5
 1.875  1.875  3.75 days
Average daily float  Average daily receipts  Weighted average delay
 $266,666.67  3.75  $1,000,000
EXAMPLE
Suppose Concepts, Inc., has average daily receipts of $266,667. The float results in
this amount being delayed 3.75 days. The present value of the delayed cash flow is
where rB is the cost of debt capital for Concepts, adjusted to the relevant time
frame. Suppose the annual cost of debt capital is 10 percent. Then
rB  0.1  (3.75/365)  0.00103
and
Thus, the net present value of the delay float is $266,392.62  $266,667  $274.38
per day. For a year, this is $274.38  365  $100,148.70.
Accelerating Collections
The following is a depiction of the basic parts of the cash collection process.
Customer
Company
Company
mails
receives
deposits
Cash
payment
payment
payment
received
Time
Mail
Processing
Clearing
delay
delay
delay
Mail
Processing
Clearing
float
float
float
Collection float
The total time in this process is made up of mailing time, check-processing time, and check-
clearing time. The amount of time cash spends in each part of the cash collection process
depends on where the firm’s customers and banks are located and how efficient the firm is
at collecting cash. Some of the techniques used to accelerate collections and reduce collec-
tion time are lockboxes, concentration banking, and wire transfers.
V 
$266,667
1  0.00103  $266,392.62
V  $266,667
1  rB
Total receipts
Total days
 $8,000,000
30
 $266,666.67
782
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
788
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Lockboxes
The lockbox is the most widely used device to speed up collections of cash.
It is a special post office box set up to intercept accounts receivable payments.
Figure 28.4 illustrates the lockbox system.8 The collection process is started by cus-
tomers mailing their checks to a post office box instead of sending them to the firm. The
lockbox is maintained by a local bank and is typically located no more than several hun-
dred miles away. Large corporations may maintain more than 20 lockboxes around the
country. In the typical lockbox system, the local bank collects the lockbox checks from the
post office several times a day. The bank deposits the checks directly to the firm’s account.
Details of the operation are recorded (in some computer-usable form) and sent to the firm.
A lockbox system reduces mailing time because checks are received at a nearby post
office instead of at corporate headquarters. Lockboxes also reduce the firm’s processing
time because they reduce the time required for a corporation to physically handle receiv-
ables and to deposit checks for collection. A bank lockbox should enable a firm to get its
receipts processed, deposited, and cleared faster than if it were to receive checks at its head-
quarters and deliver them itself to the bank for deposit and clearing.
Chapter 28
Cash Management
783
Corporate
customers
Corporate
customers
Corporate
customers
Corporate
customers
Post office
box 1
Post office
box 2
Local bank
collects funds from
post office boxes
Envelopes opened;
separation of
checks and receipts
Details of receivables
go to firm
Deposit of checks
into bank accounts
Firm processes
receivables
Bank clears
checks
I FIGURE 28.4 Overview of Lockbox Processing
The flow starts when a corporate customer mails remittances to a post office box
number instead of to the corporation. Several times a day the bank collects the
lockbox receipts from the post office. the checks are then put into the company
bank accounts.
8Two types of lockboxes are offered by banks. Wholesale lockboxes are used in processing a small number of
large-dollar checks. Retail lockboxes are used for processing a large number of smaller checks.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
789
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Concentration Banking
Using lockboxes is one way firms can collect checks from cus-
tomers and get them into deposit banks. Another way to speed up collection is to get the
cash from the deposit banks to the firm’s main bank more quickly. This is done by a method
called concentration banking.
With a concentration-banking system, the firm’s sales offices are usually responsible
for the collection and processing of customer checks. The sales office deposits the checks
into a local deposit bank account. Surplus funds are transferred from the deposit bank to the
concentration bank. The purpose of concentration banking is to obtain customer checks
from nearby receiving locations. Concentration banking reduces mailing time because the
firm’s sales office is usually nearer than corporate headquarters to the customer.
Furthermore, bank clearing time will be reduced because the customer’s check is usually
drawn on a local bank. Figure 28.5 illustrates this process, where concentration banks are
combined with lockboxes in a total cash-management system.
The corporate cash manager uses the pools of cash at the concentration bank for short-
term investing or for some other purpose. The concentration banks usually serve as the
source of short-term investments. They also serve as the focal point for transferring funds
to disbursement banks.
Wire Transfers
After the customers’ checks get into the local banking network, the ob-
jective is to transfer the surplus funds (funds in excess of required compensating balances)
from the local deposit bank to the concentration bank. The fastest and most expensive way
784
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
Firm cash
manager
Corporate
customers
Corporate
customers
Firm sales
office
Local bank
deposits
Concentration
bank
Maintenance of
cash reserves
Disbursements
Short-term
investments of cash
Maintenance of
compensating
balance at
creditor bank
Cash manager analyzes bank balance and deposit
information and revises cash allocation
Funds are transferred to concentration
bank by depository checks
and wire transfers
Post office
lockbox receipts
Corporate
customers
Corporate
customers
Statements are sent by mail to firm
for receivables processing
I FIGURE 28.5 Lockboxes and Concentration Banks in a 
Cash-Management System

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
790
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
is by wire transfer.9 Wire transfers take only a few minutes, and the cash becomes avail-
able to the firm upon receipt of a wire notice at the concentration bank. Wire transfers take
place electronically, from one computer to another, and eliminate the mailing and check-
clearing times associated with other cash-transfer methods.
Two wire services are available—Fedwire, the Federal Reserve wire service (that is op-
erated by the Federal Reserve bank system), and CHIPS (Clearing House Interbank Payments
System)—as well as the proprietary wire systems of the major investment banks. A typical
wire transfer cost is $10, which is split between the originating bank and the receiving bank.
EXAMPLE
The decision to use a bank cash-management service incorporating lockboxes and
concentration banks depends on where a firm’s customers are located and the speed
of the U.S. postal system. Suppose Atlantic Corporation, located in Philadelphia, is
considering a lockbox system. Its collection delay is currently eight days. It does
business in the southwestern part of the country (New Mexico, Arizona, and Cali-
fornia). The proposed lockbox system will be located in Los Angeles and operated
by Pacific Bank. Pacific Bank has analyzed Atlantic’s cash-gathering system and
has concluded it can decrease collection float by two days. Specifically, the bank
has come up with the following information on the proposed lockbox system:
Reduction in mailing time
 1.0 day
Reduction in clearing time
 0.5 day
Reduction in firm’s processing time
 0.5 day
_________
Total reduction
2.0 days
Daily interest on Treasury bills
 0.03%
Average number of daily payments to lockboxes  200
Average size of payment
 $5,000
The cash flows for the current collection are shown in the following cash flow time chart:
Mail
Processing
Availability
time
time
time
Customer
Check
Deposit
Cash
mails
is
is
is
check
received
made
available
Day
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
The cash flows for the lockbox collection operation will be as follows:
Mail
Processing
Availability
time
time
time
Customer
Check
Deposit
Cash
mails
is
is
is
check
received
made
available
Day
0
1
2
3
3.5
4
5
6
Chapter 28
Cash Management
785
9A slower and cheaper way is a depository transfer check. This is an unsigned, nonnegotiable check drawn on
the local collection bank and payable to the concentration bank.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
791
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The average daily collections from the southwestern region are $1 million (200 
$5,000). The Pacific Bank has agreed to operate a lockbox system for an annual
fee of $20,000 and $0.30 per check processed.
On this basis the lockbox would increase the collected bank balance by $1
million  2  $2 million. The lockbox, in effect, releases $2 million to the firm
by reducing processing, mailing, and clearing time by two days.
The Atlantic Corporation can expect to realize a daily return of 0.0003  $2
million  $600. The yearly savings would be $600  365 days  $219,000 un-
der the lockbox system.
The Pacific Bank’s charge for this lockbox service would be
Annual variable fee
365 days  200 checks  $0.30  $21,900
Annual fixed fee
$20,000
_______
Total
$41,900
Because the return on released funds exceeds the lockbox system costs, Atlantic
should employ Pacific Bank. (We should note, however, that this example has ig-
nored the cost of moving funds into the concentration account).
Delaying Disbursements
Accelerating collections is one method of cash management; paying more slowly is an-
other. The cash disbursement process is illustrated in Figure 28.6. Techniques to slow down
disbursement will attempt to increase mail time and check-clearing time.
786
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
Firm prepares check
to supplier
Post office
processing
Delivery of check
to supplier
Deposit goes to
supplier’s bank
Bank collects
funds
Disbursement process
Devices to delay
check clearing
1. Write check on distant bank
2. Hold payment for several days after
postmarked in office
3. Call supplier firm to verify statement
accuracy for large amounts
1. Mail from distant post office
2. Mail from post office that requires
a great deal of handling
I FIGURE 28.6 Cash Disbursement

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
792
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Disbursement Float (“Playing the Float Game”)
Even though the cash balance at the bank may be $1 million, a firm’s books may show only
$500,000 because it has written $500,000 in payment checks. The disbursement float of
$500,000 is available for the corporation to use until the checks are presented for payment.
Float in terms of slowing down payment checks comes from mail delivery, check-processing
time, and collection of funds. This is illustrated in Figure 28.6. Disbursement float can be
increased by writing a check on a geographically distant bank. For example, a New York
supplier might be paid with checks drawn on a Los Angeles bank. This will increase the
time required for the checks to clear through the banking system.
Zero-Balance Accounts
Some firms set up a zero-balance account (ZBA) to handle disbursement activity. The ac-
count has a zero balance as checks are written. As checks are presented to the zero-balance
account for payment (causing a negative balance), funds are automatically transferred in
from a central control account. The master account and the ZBA are located in the same
bank. Thus, the transfer is automatic and involves only an accounting entry in the bank.
Drafts
Firms sometimes use drafts instead of checks. Drafts differ from checks because they are
not drawn on a bank but on the issuer (the firm) and are payable by the issuer. The bank acts
only as an agent, presenting the draft to the issuer for payment. When a draft is transmitted
to a firm’s bank for collection, the bank must present the draft to the issuing firm for ac-
ceptance before making payment. After the draft has been accepted, the firm must deposit
the necessary cash to cover the payment. The use of drafts rather than checks allows a firm
to keep lower cash balances in its disbursement accounts because cash does not need to be
deposited until the drafts are presented to it for payment.
Ethical and Legal Questions
The cash manager must work with cash balances collected by the bank and not the firm’s
book balance, which reflects checks that have been deposited but not collected. If not, a
cash manager could be drawing on uncollected cash as a source for making short-term in-
vestments. Most banks charge a penalty for use of uncollected funds. However, banks may
not have good enough accounting and control procedures to be fully aware of the use of un-
collected funds. This raises some ethical and legal questions for the firm.
In May 1985, Robert Fomon, chairman of E. F. Hutton, pleaded guilty to 2,000 charges
of mail and wire fraud in connection with a scheme the firm had operated from 1980 to 1982.
E. F. Hutton employees wrote checks totaling hundreds of millions of dollars in uncollected
cash, which were invested in short-term money-market assets. E. F. Hutton’s systematic
overdrafting of accounts is apparently not a widespread practice among corporations, and
since the E. F. Hutton affair, firms have been much more careful in managing their cash ac-
counts. Generally, firms are scrupulous in investing only the cash they actually have on hand.
E. F. Hutton paid a $2 million fine, reimbursed the government (the U.S. Department of
Justice) $750,000, and reserved $8 million for restitution to defrauded banks.
• Describe collection and disbursement float.
• What are lockboxes? Concentration banks? Wire transfers?
• Suppose an overzealous financial manager writes checks on uncollected funds. Aside
from legal issues, who is the financial loser in this situation?
Chapter 28
Cash Management
787
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
793
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
28.4 INVESTING IDLE CASH
If a firm has a temporary cash surplus, it can invest in short-term marketable securities. The
market for short-term financial assets is called the money market. The maturity of short-
term financial assets that trade in the money market is one year or less.
Most large firms manage their own short-term financial assets, transacting through
banks and dealers. Some large firms and many small firms use money-market funds. These
are funds that invest in short-term financial assets for a management fee. The management
fee is compensation for the professional expertise and diversification provided by the fund
manager. Among the many money-market mutual funds, some specialize in corporate cus-
tomers. Banks also offer sweep accounts, where the bank takes all excess available funds at
the close of each business day and invests them for the firm.
Firms have temporary cash surpluses for these reasons: to help finance seasonal or
cyclical activities of the firm, to help finance planned expenditures of the firm, and to pro-
vide for unanticipated contingencies.
Seasonal or Cyclical Activities
Some firms have a predictable cash flow pattern. They have surplus cash flows during part
of the year and deficit cash flows the rest of the year. For example, Toys “R” Us, a retail toy
firm, has a seasonal cash flow pattern influenced by Christmas. Such a firm may buy mar-
ketable securities when surplus cash flows occur and sell marketable securities when deficits
occur. Of course, bank loans are another short-term financing device. Figure 28.7 illustrates
the use of bank loans and marketable securities to meet temporary financing needs.
Planned Expenditures
Firms frequently accumulate temporary investments in marketable securities to provide the
cash for a plant-construction program, dividend payment, and other large expenditures.
Thus, firms may issue bonds and stocks before the cash is needed, investing the proceeds in
short-term marketable securities, and then selling the securities to finance the expenditures.
The important characteristics of short-term marketable securities are their maturity, de-
fault risk, marketability, and taxability.
788
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
Total financing needs
Time
Marketable
securities
Bank
loans
Short-term financing
Long-term financing:
Equity plus long-term debt
0
1
2
3
I FIGURE 28.7 Seasonal Cash Demands
Time 1: A surplus cash flow exists. Seasonal demand for investing is low. The surplus
cash flow is invested in short-term marketable securities. Time 2: A deficit cash flow
exists. Seasonal demand for investing is high. The financial deficit is financed by
selling marketable securities and by bank  borrowing.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
794
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Maturity
Maturity refers to the time period over which interest and principal payments
are made. For a given change in the level of interest rates, the prices of longer-maturity se-
curities will change more than those for shorter-maturity securities. As a consequence,
firms that invest in long-term maturity securities are accepting greater risk than firms that
invest in securities with short-term maturities. This type of risk is usually called interest-
rate risk. Most firms limit their investments in marketable securities to those maturing in
less than 90 days. Of course, the expected return on securities with short-term maturities is
usually less than the expected return on securities with longer maturities.
Default Risk
Default risk refers to the probability that interest or principal will not be
paid on the due date and in the promised amount. In previous chapters we observed that var-
ious financial reporting agencies, such as Moody’s Investors Service and Standard &
Poor’s, compile and publish ratings of various corporate and public securities. These rat-
ings are connected to default risk. Of course, some securities have negligible default risk,
such as U.S. Treasury bills. Given the purposes of investing idle corporate cash, firms typ-
ically avoid investing in marketable securities with significant default risk.
Marketability
Marketability refers to how easy it is to convert an asset to cash. Some-
times marketability is referred to as liquidity. It has two characteristics:
1. No Price-Pressure Effect. If an asset can be sold in large amounts without changing the
market price, it is marketable. Price-pressure effects are those that come about when the
price of an asset must be lowered to facilitate the sale.
2. Time. If an asset can be sold quickly at the existing market price, it is marketable. In con-
trast, a Renoir painting or antique desk appraised at $1 million will likely sell for much
less if the owner must sell on short notice.
In general, marketability is the ability to sell an asset for its face market value quickly and
in large amounts. Perhaps the most marketable of all securities are U.S. Treasury bills.
Taxability
Several kinds of securities have varying degrees of tax exemption.
1. The interest on the bonds of state and local governments is exempt from federal taxes,
and usually from the state and local taxes where the bonds are issued. Pretax expected
returns on state and local bonds must be lower than on similar taxable investments and
therefore are more attractive to corporations in high marginal tax brackets.
2. Seventy percent of the dividend income on preferred and common stock is exempt from
corporate income taxes.
The market price of securities will reflect the total demand and supply of tax influences.
The position of the firm may be different from that of the market.
Different Types of Money-Market Securities
Money-market securities are generally highly marketable and short term. They usually have
low risk of default. They are issued by the U.S. government (for example, U.S. Treasury
bills), domestic and foreign banks (for example, certificates of deposit), and business cor-
porations (commercial paper, for example).
U.S. Treasury bills are obligations of the U.S. government that mature in 90, 180, 270,
or 360 days. They are pure discount securities. The 90-day and 180-day bills are sold by
auction every week, and 270-day and 360-day bills are sold every month.
U.S. Treasury notes and bonds have original maturities of more than one year. They are
interest-bearing securities. The interest is exempt from state and local taxes.
Chapter 28
Cash Management
789

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
795
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Federal agency securities are securities issued by corporations and agencies created by
the U.S. government, such as the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and the Government
National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae). The interest rates on agency issues are higher
than those on comparable U.S. Treasury issues. This is true because agency issues are not
as marketable as U.S. Treasury issues, and they have more default risk.
Short-term tax exempts are short-term securities issued by states, municipalities, local
housing agencies, and urban renewal agencies. They have more default risk than U.S.
Treasury issues and are less marketable. The interest is exempt from federal income tax. As
a consequence, the pretax yield on tax exempts is lower than those on comparable securi-
ties, such as U.S. Treasury bills.
Commercial paper refers to short-term securities issued by finance companies, banks,
and corporations. Commercial paper typically is unsecured notes. Maturities range from a
few weeks to 270 days. There is no active secondary market in commercial paper. As a con-
sequence, their marketability is low. (However, firms that issue commercial paper will di-
rectly repurchase before maturity.) The default risk of commercial paper depends on the fi-
nancial strength of the issuer. Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s publish quality ratings for
commercial paper.
Certificates of deposit (CDs) are short-term loans to commercial banks. There are ac-
tive markets in CDs of 3-month, 6-month, 9-month, and 12-month maturities.
Repurchase agreements are sales of government securities (for example, U.S. Treasury
bills) by a bank or securities dealer with an agreement to repurchase. An investor typically
buys some Treasury securities from a bond dealer and simultaneously agrees to sell them
back at a later date at a specified higher price. Repurchase agreements are usually very short
term—overnight to a few days.
Eurodollar CDs are deposits of dollars with foreign banks.
Banker’s acceptances are time drafts (orders to pay) issued by a business firm (usually
an importer) that have been accepted by a bank that guarantees payment.
• Why do firms find themselves with idle cash?
• What are the types of money-market securities?
28.5 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
The chapter discussed how firms manage cash.
1. A firm holds cash to conduct transactions and to compensate banks for the various services
they render.
2. The optimal amount of cash for a firm to hold depends on the opportunity cost of holding
cash and the uncertainty of future cash inflows and outflows. The Baumol model and the
Miller-Orr model are two transactions models that provide rough guidelines for determining
the optimal cash position.
3. The firm can make use of a variety of procedures to manage the collection and disbursement
of cash in such a way as to speed up the collection of cash and slow down payments. Some
methods to speed up collection are lockboxes, concentration banking, and wire transfers. The
financial manager must always work with collected company cash balances and not with the
company’s book balance. To do otherwise is to use the bank’s cash without the bank knowing
it, raising ethical and legal questions.
790
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
796
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
4. Because of seasonal and cyclical activities, to help finance planned expenditures, or as a
reserve for unanticipated needs, firms temporarily find themselves with cash surpluses. The
money market offers a variety of possible vehicles for parking this idle cash.
KEY TERMS
Compensating balances
772
Target cash balance 773
Concentration banking
784
Transactions motive
772
Float
779
Wire transfer
785
Lockbox
783
Zero-balance account (ZBA)
787
SUGGESTED READINGS
The following are general readings in cash management:
Hill, Ned. C., and William L. Sartoris. Short-Term Financial Management. New York:
Macmillan Publishing Company, 1992.
Maness, Terry S., and John T. Zietlow. Short-Term Financial Management. Minneapolis/St.
Paul: West Publishing Company, 1993.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Reasons for Holding Cash
28.1 What are the reasons for holding cash?
Determining the Target Cash Balance
28.2 Indicate whether the following actions increase, decrease, or cause no change in a
company’s cash balance.
a. Interest rates paid on money-market securities rise.
b. Commissions charged by brokers increase.
c. The compensating-balance requirement of a bank is lowered.
d. The cost of borrowing decreases.
e. The firm’s credit rating declines.
f. Direct fees for banking services are established.
28.3 A company’s weekly average cash balances are as follows:
Week 1
$24,000
Week 2
34,000
Week 3
10,000
Week 4
15,000
If the annual interest rate is 12 percent, what return can be earned on the average cash
balances?
28.4 The Casablanca Piano Company is currently holding $800,000 in cash. It projects that over
the next year its cash outflows will exceed its cash inflows by $345,000 per month. Each
time securities are bought or sold through a broker, the company pays a fee of $500. The
annual interest rate on money-market securities is 7 percent.
a. How much of this cash should be retained and how much should be used to increase
the company’s holdings of marketable securities?
b. After the initial investment of excess cash, how many times during the next 12 months
will securities be sold?
Chapter 28
Cash Management
791

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
797
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
28.5 Lisa Tylor, CFO of Purple Rain Co., concluded from the Baumol model that the optimal
cash balance for the firm is $20 million. The annual interest rate on marketable securities
is 7.5 percent. The fixed cost of selling securities to replenish cash is $5,000. Purple
Rain’s cash flow pattern is well approximated by the Baumol model. What can you infer
about Purple Rain’s average weekly cash disbursement?
28.6 The variance of the daily net cash flows for the Tseneg Asian Import Company is $1.44
million. The opportunity cost to the firm of holding cash is 8 percent per year. The fixed
cost of buying and selling securities is $600 per transaction.
What should the target cash level and upper limit be, if the tolerable lower limit has
been established at $20,000?
28.7 Gold Star Co. and Silver Star Co. both manage their cash flows according to the Miller-
Orr model. Gold Star’s daily cash flow is controlled between $100,000 and $200,000,
whereas Silver Star’s daily cash flow is controlled between $150,000 and $300,000. The
annual interest rates Gold Star and Silver Star can get are 10 percent and 9 percent,
respectively, and the costs per transaction of trading securities are $2,000 and $2,500,
respectively.
a. What are their respective target cash balances?
b. Which firm’s daily cash flow is more volatile?
Managing the Collection and Disbursement of Cash
28.8 Garden Groves, Inc., a Florida-based company, has determined that a majority of its
customers are located in the New York City area. Therefore, it is considering using a
lockbox system offered by a bank located in New York. The bank has estimated that use
of the system will reduce collection float by three days. Based on the following
information, should the lockbox system be adopted?
Average number of payments per day: 150
Average value of payment: $15,000
Fixed annual lockbox fee: $80,000
Variable lockbox fee: $0.50/transaction
Annual interest rate on money-market securities: 7.5 percent
28.9 A large New England lumber producer, Salisbury Stakes, Inc., is planning to use a
lockbox system to speed collections from its customers located in the midwestern United
States. A Chicago-area bank will provide this service for an annual fee of $15,000 plus
$0.25 per transaction. The estimated reduction in collection and processing time is two
days. Treasury bills are currently yielding 6 percent per year.
If the average customer payment in this region is $4,500, how many customers each
day, on average, must use the system to make it profitable?
28.10 Each business day, on average, a company writes checks totaling $12,000 to pay its
suppliers. The usual clearing time for these checks is five days. Each day, the company
receives payments from its customers in the form of checks totaling $15,000. The cash
from the payments is available to the firm after three days.
Calculate the company’s disbursement float, collection float, and net float.
How would these values change if the collected funds were available in four days
instead of three?
28.11 It takes the Herman Company about seven days to receive and deposit checks from
customers. The top management of the Herman Company is considering a lockbox system.
It is expected that the lockbox system will reduce float time to four days. Average daily
collections are $100,000. The marketwide interest rate is 12 percent. 
a. What would the reduction in outstanding cash balances be as a result of implementing
the lockbox system?
b. What is the return that could be earned on these savings?
c. What is the maximum monthly charge the Herman Company should pay for this
lockbox system?
792
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
798
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
28.12 The Walter Company disburses checks every two weeks that average $200,000 in total
and take three days to clear. How much cash can the Walter Company save annually if it
delays the transfer of funds from an interest-bearing account that pays 0.04 percent per
day for these three days?
28.13 The Miller Company has an agreement with the First National Bank by which the bank
handles $4 million in collections each day and requires a $500,000 compensating
balance. Miller is contemplating canceling the agreement and dividing its eastern region
so that two other banks will handle its business. Banks 1 and 2 will each handle $2
million of collections each day, requiring a compensating balance of $300,000. Miller’s
financial management expects that collections will be accelerated by one day if the
eastern region is divided. The T-bill rate is 7 percent. Should the Miller Company
implement the new system? What will the annual net savings be?
28.14 Anthony Marino, CFO of Thousand Years Inc., is evaluating two alternatives of float
management: lockbox and concentration banking. The average number of daily
payments to lockboxes is 250 with the average size of each payment at $7,500. The
lockbox system can reduce the collection float by 1.5 days and concentration banking
can reduce the collection float by 1 day. However, the bank charges an annual fee of
$30,000 and $0.30 per check processed for the lockbox service. Which method is more
economical for Thousand Years, the lockbox system or the concentration-banking
system? Assume daily interest on Treasury bills is 0.03 percent.
Investing Idle Cash
28.15 What are the important characteristics of short-term marketable securities?
Appendix 28A ADJUSTABLE-RATE PREFERRED STOCK,
AUCTION-RATE PREFERRED STOCK, AND
FLOATING-RATE CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT
Corporate cash managers are continually seeking new ways to improve the return on their
surplus cash. Many of the sophisticated investment vehicles developed over the last decade
are too illiquid or too risky or have an inappropriate time horizon for use in cash manage-
ment. However, three instruments—adjustable-rate preferred stock, auction-rate preferred
stock, and floating-rate CDs or notes—offer substantial benefits and are currently em-
ployed by corporations in their cash-management activities.
Adjustable-Rate Preferred Stock
Adjustable-rate preferred stock (ARPS) is designed to offer rates of return competitive with
more traditional money-market instruments while still affording the corporate investor the
80-percent tax exclusion on dividend income—a tax advantage that makes equity invest-
ments extremely attractive.
Agencies such as Moody’s or Standard & Poor’s give issues credit ratings, so the cash
manager has a gauge to judge the creditworthiness of the instruments relative to other in-
vestments. The dividend rate on these issues is adjusted quarterly at a fixed spread over or
under the highest of the 90-day T-bill rate, the 10-year T-note rate, or the 20-year T-bond
rate prevailing on the reset date. The spread is specified by each issuer. ARPS issues have
collars—minimum and maximum dividend-rate levels—that, when hit, result in the issue
taking on the characteristics of a fixed-rate preferred instrument.
Chapter 28
Cash Management
793

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
799
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The floating-rate feature keeps the dividend rate (and thus the overall pretax return) in
line with alternative investments and reduces price volatility caused solely by changes in
interest rates. The floating rate does not, however, eliminate all of the incremental risk as-
sociated with these instruments.
Risk is present in the ARPS market and can be broken down into three categories. Cash
managers must continually reevaluate the market in light of changes that might occur in any
of the three areas.
The greatest risk in the ARPS market is derived from the limited number of issuers and
their clustering in certain industry groups, most notably banking, and the ever-present risk
of downgraded ratings. Like any other credit instrument, ARPS is subject to volatility based
on the market’s perceptions of the strength of the issuer and industry group. The possibil-
ity of impaired principal is a real one for ARPS purchasers, because concerns about credit
could govern the floating-rate dividend between and on reset dates. The cash manager must
be aware that substantial month-to-month volatility (the normal time horizon for corporate
evaluation of their cash portfolios) could exist with ARPS investments.
A second risk factor centers around the narrowness of the primary and secondary mar-
kets for ARPS. The demand for these issues comes primarily from corporate investors, and
the limited nature of this investment base is a factor in evaluating the depth of the market.
If a cash manager must liquidate a position quickly, a thin market could exacerbate price
pressure. As a result, most corporate investors employ mutual-fund managers who special-
ize in the ARPS market to run their portfolios. Liquidity is normally next-day with the funds
(although principal is by no means guaranteed), and mutual-fund managers represent the
most active players in the market.
Finally, changes in the tax code have a great impact on the price of ARPS issues, because
their main feature is the tax advantage of the dividend exclusion. The Tax Reform Act of 1986
reduced this exclusion from 85 to 70 percent. Assuming a 46-percent tax rate, a corporate in-
vestor in the ARPS market would have found its dividend income being taxed at 13.8 percent
(30 percent taxed at 46 percent) instead of 6.9 percent (15 percent taxed at 46 percent). Such
an increase would have undoubtedly resulted in substantial price declines for existing issues.
Luckily for both ARPS issuers and purchasers, the top corporate tax rate is now lower than
46 percent, resulting in only a small change for recipients of dividend income. The issue of
tax advantage is crucial, because ARPS as an investment is evaluated on an after-tax risk-ad-
justed basis relative to other instruments. If the added risk inherent in the instrument begins
to eclipse the tax advantage, the instrument will become increasingly unattractive.
The adjustable-rate preferred market has not fared as well as early proponents had
hoped, primarily because the floating-rate dividend failed to compensate for credit concerns
about the issuers. This has resulted in many issues trading below par and has prompted the
development of several related instruments. The most successful of these new vehicles is
auction-rate preferred stock.
Auction-Rate Preferred Stock
The similarity between ARPS and auction-rate preferred stock extends only to the fact that
both have a floating dividend rate and afford the corporate investor the same exclusion of
taxes on dividends. Auction rates differ from ARPS in the way the dividend is set and in the
way these portfolios are managed.
The dividend rate for auction-rate preferred is set not by the issuers but by the market
through a process called a Dutch auction. The auction permits investors to determine the
dividend yield for the 49-day period that is standard between reset dates. The Internal
Revenue Service requires that a corporate investor hold dividend-paying stock for at least
794
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
800
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
45 days to be eligible for the dividend exclusion; 49 days was chosen so the auctions will
always occur on the same day of the week for the life of individual issues.
An auction-rate preferred stock is auctioned as follows. Each bidder (someone who al-
ready owns shares and wishes to continue to hold them, or a new purchaser) submits to the
agent in charge of the auction the number of shares desired and at what dividend level. The
lowest rate that sells out the available shares will be the dividend for the 49 days until the
next reset/auction. Investors who already own shares going into the auction have the option
to take their shares at whatever dividend is set (called rolling) or bid the lowest rate they
would accept and risk losing some or all of the shares to another bidder who would be will-
ing to take a lower dividend. Of course, shareholders also have the right to simply sell all
of their shares at the auction. Although the process is essentially independent, the dividend
rate for most issues is usually set at approximately 60 to 80 percent of the 60-day AA com-
mercial paper rate prevailing on auction day.
Auction-rate preferred stock offers the corporate investor several important features:
1. The 49-day reset period is shorter than the 90-day period found in the ARPS market, re-
ducing the potential for price volatility resulting from both interest-rate movement and
credit concerns.
2. The auction method of determining the dividend level makes it more likely that the is-
sue will trade at par, minimizing principal impairment. The shorter reset period also of-
fers the cash manager increased liquidity in the event funds are needed for corporate op-
erations between auctions. The auction-rate investor sacrifices some return relative to
ARPS because of these features, but still garners a substantial after-tax benefit relative
to alternative money-market investments.
3. The auction-rate preferred market is more accessible to the corporate investor, allowing
it to invest individually rather than through a mutual fund. Many cash managers prefer
the added control this gives them over their portfolios.
The risks associated with auction-rate preferred stock are smaller than those associated
with ARPS but must still be considered substantial for the cash manager who may need im-
mediate liquidity or who faces strict return criteria. These risks include the following:
1. Failed Auctions. If the agent supervising an auction does not receive enough bids to
match offers to sell for existing shares of a particular issue, the auction is considered to
have failed. There have been several auction failures, but it is not as catastrophic as it
sounds. It means that the dividend rate for the subsequent 49-day period will be set at
110 percent of the 60-day AA commercial paper rate. A seller would therefore be faced
with a capital loss if it wished to liquidate.
2. Issuer Credit Quality. As with ARPS, all auction-rate preferred issues receive a rating
from Moody’s or Standard & Poor’s. They remain susceptible to perceived or actual
changes in that credit quality between reset periods. To facilitate the new market, some
large brokers were even guaranteeing to redeem auction-rate preferred at par between
reset periods to generate investor participation.
3. Changes in the Tax Code. Major changes in the tax code will affect the auction-rate pre-
ferred market in much the same manner as they would the APRS market. Once again, it
is crucial to remember that these instruments are judged on an after-tax risk-adjusted ba-
sis relative to alternative investments.
Auction-rate preferred stock has been extremely well received by the corporate market-
place. The key to its continued success will be diversification of issuers, orderly and successful
auctions, and an ongoing after-tax yield advantage relative to other money-market investments.
Chapter 28
Cash Management
795

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
801
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Floating-Rate Certificates of Deposit
A third investment available to the cash manager looking to increase the return on surplus
cash is the floating-rate certificate of deposit or note. Our discussion centers on the CD, but
the same argument applies to the short-term note, adjusting for time-horizon considerations.
The floating-rate certificate of deposit (FRCD) market presents substantial investment
opportunities for the manager of short-term cash. Frequently reset coupons, the hallmark of
the FRCD, allow the investor to combine the yield of an intermediate-term instrument with
the liquidity of a short-term one. This combination also reduces interest-rate risk and pro-
vides for capital maintenance, while continuing to provide attractive returns.
Two issues must be addressed when evaluating the FRCD market:
1. How are the issues priced?
2. Which base rate should be selected?
Floating-rate CDs are priced at a spread above or below a well-known market index
such as the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), T-bills, or commercial paper. The
width of the spread reflects the issuer’s credit, the maturity of the issue, its liquidity, and the
overall level of rates at the time of issuance. In general, this spread is fixed over the life of
the security, but some new issues do have a floating spread. When the market perception of
credit quality changes significantly from that implied in the spread to the base rate, the price
of the security will decline as the market compensates investors for the increased risk.
The actual coupon paid (the index rate plus or minus the predetermined spread) to the
investor will be reset periodically, usually monthly, quarterly, or semiannually. It is the
floating nature of the coupon that keeps most FRCDs within one to two points of par at all
times, as the issue is continually repriced relative to existing market conditions. Price sta-
bility will increase with the frequency of reset.
Most FRCDs also feature redemption specifications in the form of call or put options.
In the case of a call, the issuer has the option to call the security back from an investor at
par, usually within three to five years of issuance. The security can be called on any coupon-
payment date, and, as would be expected, the option is usually exercised when the security
is trading at a premium. For the put option, the investor has the right to sell the security back
to the issuer at par before maturity. The option is usually exercised when the security is trad-
ing at a discount. These features must be incorporated into yield calculations, with the call
or put dates generally substituted for the maturity date.
The initial price of the FRCD will adapt to reflect market demand for the issue, liquid-
ity, and favorable aspects of the issue’s structure. Whether the security trades at a premium
or discount to par depends on changes in the market’s perception of these and the other fac-
tors discussed previously. However, given frequently reset coupons, only drastic changes in
issuer quality or quality spreads will prompt significant deterioration of principal.
The price of an FRCD will also be affected if a change occurs in the relationship be-
tween index rates, such as a widening of the T-bill/Eurodollar spread. Assume that two
FRCDs are priced to identical yields, one at a spread over LIBOR and the other at a spread
above T-bills. If the T-bill/Eurodollar spread widens, the FRCDs indexed to LIBOR will ex-
perience a price decline. This will occur regardless of the absolute level of interest rates or
any shift in market perception of specific credit risk.
In evaluating an FRCD, the selection of an issue based on its index rate can be as im-
portant as selection of an issue based on the issuer’s credit ratings or maturity. The choice of
an index reflects the perception of how the issuer’s industry fundamentals will behave rela-
tive to that index. For instance, the choice of T-bills as the base implies an analysis of how
the issuer will perform relative to a risk-free measure; the choice of commercial paper im-
plies an analysis of the issuer’s prospects relative to companies with access to that market.
796
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
28. Cash Management
802
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The base rate will also be important when general quality concerns arise in the market.
A LIBOR index will reflect those concerns, and the price of an FRCD indexed to LIBOR
should not change drastically, because its coupon is linked directly to a market-determined
cost of funds. An FRCD indexed to T-bills, however, might exhibit substantial price volatil-
ity over the same time period. The greater the index’s sensitivity to market movement, the
greater the issue’s price stability.
Although the FRCD does not offer the tax advantage of ARPS or auction-rate preferred
stock, it gives the cash manager an opportunity to keep returns on excess cash in line with
changing interest rates. The secondary market for FRCDs is still developing but is consid-
erably deeper than that for preferred securities.
All of these investments were designed for cash-management activities that allow for
investment of cash for longer periods of time. Generally, a cash manager will be using at
least a 9-month to 12-month horizon before considering investing in these vehicles. Money
should not be committed to these investments unless the manager can be reasonably sure
that it will not be needed for corporate operations for at least one year.
Chapter 28
Cash Management
797

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
29. Credit Management
803
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Credit Management
CHAPTER 29
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
W
hen a firm sells goods and services it can (1) be paid in cash immediately or
(2) wait for a time to be paid, that is, extend credit to customers. Granting credit
is investing in a customer, an investment tied to the sale of a product or service.
This chapter examines the firm’s decision to grant credit.
An account receivable is created when credit is granted. These receivables include
credit granted to other firms, called trade credit, and credit granted consumers, called con-
sumer credit. About one-sixth of all the assets of industrial firms are in the form of accounts
receivable. Trade credit extended by a firm’s supplier to the firm appears as an accounts
payable. Figure 29.1 illustrates this aspect of trade credit.
The investment in accounts receivable for any firm depends on both the amount of
credit sales and the average collection period. For example, if a firm’s credit sales per day
equal $1,000 and its average collection period is 30 days, its accounts receivable will be
equal to $30,000. Thus, a firm’s investment in accounts receivable depends on factors in-
fluencing credit sales and collection. A firm’s credit policy affects these factors.
The following are the components of credit policy:
1. Terms of the sale. A firm must decide on certain conditions when selling its goods and
services for credit. For example, the terms of sale may specify the credit period, the cash
discount, and the type of credit instrument.
2. Credit analysis. When granting credit, a firm tries to distinguish between customers that
will pay and customers that will not pay. Firms use a number of devices and procedures
to determine the probability that customers will pay.
3. Collection policy. Firms that grant credit must establish a policy for collecting the cash
when it becomes due.
This chapter discusses each of the components of credit policy that makes up the decision
to grant credit.
In some ways, the decision to grant credit is connected to the cash collection process de-
scribed in the previous chapter. This is illustrated in Figure 29.2 with a cash-flow diagram.
The typical sequence of events when a firm grants credit is (1) the credit sale is made,
(2) the customer sends a check to the firm, (3) the firm deposits the check, and (4) the firm’s
account is credited for the amount of the check.
29.1 TERMS OF THE SALE
The terms of sale refer to the period for which credit is granted, the cash discount, and the
type of credit instrument. For example, suppose a customer is granted credit with terms of
2/10, net 30. This means that the customer has 30 days from the invoice date within which

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
29. Credit Management
804
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 29
Credit Management
799
to pay.1 In addition, a cash discount of 2 percent from the stated sales price is to be given if
payment is made in 10 days. If the stated terms are net 60, the customer has 60 days from
the invoice date to pay and no discount is offered for early payment.
When sales are seasonal, a firm might use seasonal dating. O. M. Scott and Sons is a
manufacturer of lawn and garden products with a seasonal dating policy that is tied to the
growing season. Payments for winter shipments of fertilizer might be due in the spring or
summer. A firm offering 3/10, net 60, May 1 dating, is making the effective invoice date
May 1. The stated amount must be paid on June 30, regardless of when the sale is made.
The cash discount of 3 percent can be taken until May 10.
Credit Period
Credit periods vary among different industries. For example, a jewelry store may sell dia-
mond engagement rings for 5/30, net 4 months. A food wholesaler, selling fresh fruit and pro-
duce, might use net 7. Generally a firm must consider three factors in setting a credit period:
1. The Probability That the Customer Will Not Pay. A firm whose customers are in high-
risk businesses may find itself offering restrictive credit terms.
2. The Size of the Account. If the account is small, the credit period will be shorter. Small
accounts are more costly to manage, and small customers are less important.
3. The Extent to Which the Goods Are Perishable. If the collateral values of the goods are
low and cannot be sustained for long periods, less credit will be granted.
Lengthening the credit period effectively reduces the price paid by the customer. Generally
this increases sales.
1An invoice is a bill written by a seller of goods or services and submitted to the buyer. The invoice date is
usually the same as the shipping date.
Firm's
customer
Firm
Accounts
receivable
Accounts
payable
Firm's
supplier
I FIGURE 29.1 Trade Credit
Customer
mails
check
Time
Cash collection
Credit
sale is
made
Firm deposits
check in
bank
Bank credits
firm’s
account
Accounts receivable
I FIGURE 29.2 The Cash Flows of Granting Credit
Trade credit extended to a customer by a firm appears as an accounts receivable.
Trade credit extended by the firm’s supplier to the firm appears as an accounts payable.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
29. Credit Management
805
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Cash Discounts
Cash discounts are often part of the terms of sale. One reason they are offered is to speed
up the collection of receivables. The firm must trade this off against the cost of the discount.
EXAMPLE
Edward Manalt, the chief financial officer of Ruptbank Company, is considering
the request of the company’s largest customer, who wants to take a 3-percent dis-
count for payment within 20 days on a $10,000 purchase. In other words, he intends
to pay $9,700 [$10,000  (1  0.03)]. Normally, this customer pays in 30 days with
no discount. The cost of debt capital for Ruptbank is 10 percent. Edward has
worked out the cash flow implications illustrated in Figure 29.3. He assumes that
the time required to cash the check when the customer receives it is the same under
both credit arrangements. He has calculated the present value of the two proposals:
Current Policy:
Proposed Policy:
His calculation shows that granting the discount would cost the Ruptbank
firm $271.34 ($9,918.48  $9,647.14) in present value. Consequently, Ruptbank
is better off with the current credit arrangement.
PV 
$9,700
1  0.1  20365  $9,647.14
PV 
$10,000
1  0.1  30365  $9,918.48
800
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
Current credit
terms (net 30)
$10,000
Days
0
10
20
30
Sale
date
Receive
check
$9,700
Days
0
10
20
30
Sale
date
Receive
check
Proposed credit
terms (3/20, net 30)
I FIGURE 29.3 Cash Flows for Different Credit Terms
Current situation: Customers usually pay 30 days from the sale
date and receive no discount.
Proposed situation: Customer will pay 20 days from the sale
date at a 3-percent discount from the $10,000 purchase price.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
29. Credit Management
806
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
In the previous example, we implicitly assumed that granting credit had no side effects.
However, the decision to grant credit may generate higher sales and involve a different cost
structure. The next example illustrates the impact of changes in the level of sales and costs
in the credit decision.
EXAMPLE
Suppose that Ruptbank Company has variable costs of $0.50 per $1 of sales. If of-
fered a discount of 3 percent, customers will increase their order size by 10 percent.
This new information is shown in Figure 29.4. That is, the customer will increase
the order size to $11,000 and, with the 3-percent discount, will remit $10,670
[$11,000  (1  0.03)] to Ruptbank in 20 days. It will cost more to fill the larger
order because variable costs are $5,500. The net present values are worked out here:
Current Policy:
Proposed Policy:
Now it is clear that the firm is better off with the proposed credit policy. This in-
crease is the net effect of several different factors including the larger initial costs,
the earlier receipt of the cash inflows, the increased sales level, and the discount.
Credit Instruments
Most credit is offered on open account. This means that the only formal credit instrument
is the invoice, which is sent with the shipment of goods, and which the customer signs as
evidence that the goods have been received. Afterward, the firm and its customers record
the exchange on their accounting books.
NPV   $5,500 
$10,670
1  0.1  20365  $5,111.85
NPV   $5,000 
$10,000
1  0.1  30365  $4,918.48
Chapter 29
Credit Management
801
Sale
date
$10,000
Days
0
10
20
30
Current credit
terms (net 30)
–$5,000
(variable
order costs)
Check
received
0
10
20
30
$10,670
Check
received
–$5,500
(variable
order costs)
Proposed credit
terms
(3/20, net 30)
Days
Sale
date
I FIGURE 29.4 Cash Flows for Different Credit Terms:
The Impact of New Sales and Costs

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
29. Credit Management
807
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
At times, the firm may require that the customer sign a promissory note, or IOU. This is
used when the order is large and when the firm anticipates a problem in collections.
Promissory notes can eliminate controversies later about the existence of a credit agreement.
One problem with promissory notes is that they are signed after delivery of the goods.
One way to obtain a credit commitment from a customer before the goods are delivered is
through the use of a commercial draft. The selling firm typically writes a commercial draft
calling for the customer to pay a specific amount by a specified date. The draft is then sent
to the customer’s bank with the shipping invoices. The bank has the buyer sign the draft be-
fore turning over the invoices. The goods can then be shipped to the buyer. If immediate
payment is required, it is called a sight draft. Here, funds must be turned over to the bank
before the goods are shipped.
Frequently, even the signed draft is not enough for the seller. In this case, he might de-
mand that the banker pay for the goods and collect the money from the customer. When the
banker agrees to do so in writing, the document is called a banker’s acceptance. That is, the
banker accepts responsibility for payment. Because banks generally are well-known and
well-respected institutions, the banker’s acceptance becomes a liquid instrument. In other
words, the seller can then sell (discount) the banker’s acceptance in the secondary market.
A firm can also use a conditional sales contract as a credit instrument. This is an
arrangement where the firm retains legal ownership of the goods until the customer has
completed payment. Conditional sales contracts usually are paid off in installments and
have interest costs built into them.
• What considerations enter into the determination of the terms of sale?
29.2 THE DECISION TO GRANT CREDIT: 
RISK AND INFORMATION
Locust Industries has been in existence for two years. It is one of several successful firms
that develop computer programs. The present financial managers have set out two alterna-
tive credit strategies: The firm can offer credit, or the firm can refuse credit.
Suppose Locust has determined that, if it offers no credit to its customers, it can sell its
existing computer software for $50 per program. It estimates that the costs to produce a typ-
ical computer program are equal to $20 per program.
The alternative is to offer credit. In this case, customers of Locust will pay one period
later. With some probability, Locust has determined that if it offers credit, it can charge
higher prices and expect higher sales.
Strategy 1: Refuse Credit
If Locust refuses to grant credit, cash flows will not be delayed,
and period 0 net cash flows, NCF, will be
P0Q0  C0Q0  NCF
The subscripts denote the time when the cash flows are incurred, where
P0  Price per unit received at time 0
C0  Cost per unit received at time 0
Q0  Quantity sold at time 0
802
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
29. Credit Management
808
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The net cash flows at period 1 are zero, and the net present value to Locust of refusing
credit will simply be the period 0 net cash flow:
NPV  NCF
For example, if credit is not granted and Q0  100, the NPV can be calculated as
($50  100)  ($20  100)  $3,000
Strategy 2: Offer Credit
Alternatively, let us assume that Locust grants credit to all cus-
tomers for one period. The factors that influence the decision are listed below.
Strategy 1
Strategy 2
Refuse Credit
Offer Credit
Price per unit
P0  $50
Quantity sold
Q0  100
Cost per unit
C0  $20
Probability of payment
h  1
h  0.90
Credit period
0
1 period
Discount rate
0
rB  0.01
The prime (′) denotes the variables under the second strategy. If the firm offers credit and
the new customers pay, the firm will receive revenues of 
one period hence, but its
costs,
, are incurred in period 0. If new customers do not pay, the firm incurs costs
and receives no revenues. The probability that customers will pay, h, is 0.90 in the
example. Quantity sold is higher with credit, because new customers are attracted. The cost
per unit is also higher with credit because of the costs of operating a credit policy.
The expected cash flows for each policy are set out as follows:
Expected Cash Flows
Time 0
Time 1
Refuse credit
P0Q0  C0Q0
0
Offer credit
Note that granting credit produces delayed expected cash inflows equal to 
.
The costs are incurred immediately and require no discounting. The net present value if
credit is offered is
Locust’s decision should be to adopt the proposed credit policy. The NPV of granting
credit is higher than that of refusing credit. This decision is very sensitive to the probabil-
ity of payment. If it turns out that the probability of payment is 81 percent, Locust Software
is indifferent to whether it grants credit or not. In this case the NPV of granting credit is
$3,000, which we previously found to be the NPV of not granting credit:
 h  80.8%
 $8,000  h  $50  200
1.01
 $3,000  h  $50  200
1.01
 $5,000
  0.9  $50  200
1.01
 $5,000  $3,910.89
 NPVoffer  h  P ′0Q ′0
1  rB
 C ′0Q ′0
h  P ′0Q ′0
h  P′0 Q ′0
C′0Q ′0
C′0 Q′0
C′0 Q′0
P′0 Q′0
C ′0  $25
Q ′0  200
P ′0  $50
Chapter 29
Credit Management
803

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
29. Credit Management
809
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The decision to grant credit depends on four factors:
1. The delayed revenues from granting credit,
.
2. The immediate costs of granting credit,
.
3. The probability of payment, h.
4. The appropriate required rate of return for delayed cash flows, rB.
The Value of New Information about Credit Risk
Obtaining a better estimate of the probability that a customer will default can lead to a bet-
ter decision. How can a firm determine when to acquire new information about the credit-
worthiness of its customers?
It may be sensible for Locust to determine which of its customers are most likely not
to pay. The overall probability of nonpayment is 10 percent. But credit checks by an inde-
pendent firm show that 90 percent of Locust’s customers (computer stores) have been prof-
itable over the last five years and that these customers have never defaulted on payments.
The less profitable customers are much more likely to default. In fact, 100 percent of the
less profitable customers have defaulted on previous obligations.
Locust would like to avoid offering credit to the deadbeats. Consider its projected num-
ber of customers per year of 
 200 if credit is granted. Of these customers, 180 have
been profitable over the last five years and have never defaulted on past obligations. The
remaining 20 have not been profitable. Locust Software expects that all of these less prof-
itable customers will default. This information is set out in a table:
Expected
Type of
Probability
Number
Customer
Number
of Nonpayment
of Defaults
Profitable
180
0%
0
Less profitable
20
100
20
___
___
__
Total customers
200
10%
20
The NPV of granting credit to the customers who default is
This is the cost of providing them with the software. If Locust can identify these customers
without cost, it would certainly deny them credit.
In fact, it actually costs Locust $3 per customer to figure out whether a customer has
been profitable over the last five years. The expected payoff of the credit check on its 200
customers is then
Gain from not
Cost of
extending credit  credit checks
$500

$3  200
  $100
For Locust, credit is not worth checking. It would need to pay $600 to avoid a $500 loss.
Future Sales
Up to this point, Locust has not considered the possibility that offering credit will perma-
nently increase the level of sales in future periods (beyond next month). In addition, pay-
ment and nonpayment patterns in the current period will provide credit information that is
useful for the next period. These two factors should be analyzed.
hP ′0Q ′0
1  rB
 C ′0Q ′0  0  $50  20
1.01
 $25  20   $500
Q ′0
C ′0Q ′0
P ′0Q ′0
804
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
29. Credit Management
810
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
In the case of Locust, there is a 90-percent probability that the customer will pay in pe-
riod 1. But, if payment is made, there will be another sale in period 2. The probability that
the customer will pay in period 2, if the customer has paid in period 1, is 100 percent. Locust
can refuse to offer credit in period 2 to customers that have refused to pay in period 1. This
is diagrammed in Figure 29.5.
• List the factors that influence the decision to grant credit.
29.3 OPTIMAL CREDIT POLICY
So far we have discussed how to compute net present value for two alternative credit poli-
cies. However, we have not discussed the optimal amount of credit. At the optimal amount
of credit, the incremental cash flows from increased sales are exactly equal to the carrying
costs from the increase in accounts receivable.
Consider a firm that does not currently grant credit. This firm has no bad debts, no
credit department, and relatively few customers. Now consider another firm that grants
credit. This firm has lots of customers, a credit department, and a bad-debt expense account. 
It is useful to think of the decision to grant credit in terms of carrying costs and op-
portunity costs:
1. Carrying costs are the costs associated with granting credit and making an investment
in receivables. Carrying costs include the delay in receiving cash, the losses from bad
debts, and the costs of managing credit.
2. Opportunity costs are the lost sales from refusing to offer credit. These costs drop as
credit is granted.
We represent these costs in Figure 29.6.
Chapter 29
Credit Management
805
Customer
pays (h =1)
Give
credit
Customer
pays (h = 0.9)
Give
credit
Do not
give credit
Do not
give credit
Customer
does not pay
I FIGURE 29.5 Future Sales and the Credit Decision
There is a 90-percent probability that a customer
will pay in period 1. However, if payment is made,
there will be another sale in period 2. The
probability that the customer will pay in period 2 is
100 percent—if the customer has paid in period 1.
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
29. Credit Management
811
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The sum of the carrying costs and the opportunity costs of a particular credit policy is
called the total-credit-cost curve. A point is identified as the minimum of the total-credit-cost
curve. If the firm extends more credit than the minimum, the additional net cash flow from
new customers will not cover the carrying costs of this investment in receivables.
The concept of optimal credit policy in the context of modern principles of finance
should be somewhat analogous to the concept of the optimal capital structure discussed ear-
lier in the text. In perfect financial markets there should be no optimal credit policy.
Alternative amounts of credit for a firm should not affect the value of the firm. Thus, the
decision to grant credit would be a matter of indifference to financial managers.
Just as with optimal capital structure, we could expect taxes, monopoly power, bank-
ruptcy costs, and agency costs to be important in determining an optimal credit policy in
a world of imperfect financial markets. For example, customers in high tax brackets would
be better off borrowing and taking advantage of cash discounts offered by firms than
would customers in low tax brackets. Corporations in low tax brackets would be less able
to offer credit, because borrowing would be relatively more expensive than for firms in
high tax brackets.
In general, a firm will extend trade credit if it has a comparative advantage in doing
so. Trade credit is likely to be advantageous if the selling firm has a cost advantage over
other potential lenders, if the selling firm has monopoly power it can exploit, if the selling
firm can reduce taxes by extending credit, and if the product quality of the selling firm is
difficult to determine. Firm size may be important if there are size economies in manag-
ing credit.
The optimal credit policy depends on characteristics of particular firms. Assuming that
the firm has more flexibility in its credit policy than in the prices it charges, firms with ex-
cess capacity, low variable operating costs, high tax brackets, and repeat customers should
extend credit more liberally than others.
806
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
Cost in dollars
Optimal amount
of credit
Total
costs
Carrying
costs
Oportunity
costs
Level of credit extended
I FIGURE 29.6 The Costs of Granting Credit
Carrying costs are the costs that must be incurred when credit is granted. They are
positively related to the amount of credit extended.
Opportunity costs are the lost sales from refusing credit. These costs drop when
credit is granted.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
29. Credit Management
812
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 29
Credit Management
807
THE DECISION TO GRANT CREDIT
Trade credit is more likely to be granted by
the selling firm if
1. The selling firm has a cost advantage
over other lenders.
Example: The American Manufac-
turing Co. produces
widgets. In a default, it is
easier for the American
Manufacturing Co. to
repossess widgets and
resell them than for a
finance company to arrange
for it with no experience in
selling widgets.
2. The selling firm can engage in price
discrimination.
Example: National Motors can offer
below-market interest rates
to lower income customers
that must finance a large
portion of the purchase
price of cars. Higher
income customers pay the
list price and do not
generally finance a large
part of the purchase.
3. The selling firm can obtain favorable tax
treatment.
Example: The A.B. Production
Company offers long-term
credit to its best customers.
This form of financing may
qualify as an installment
plan and allow the A.B.
Production Co. to book
profits of the sale over the
life of the loan. This may
save taxes because the
present value of the tax
payments will be lower if
spread over time.
4. The selling firm has no established repu-
tation for quality products or services.
Example: Advanced Micro Instru-
ments (AMI) manufactures
sophisticated measurement
instruments for controlling
electrical systems on
commercial airplanes. The
firm was founded by two
engineering graduates from
the University of Pennsyl-
vania in 1997. It became a
public firm in 1998. To
hedge their bets, aircraft
manufacturers will ask for
credit from AMI. It is very
difficult for customers of
AMI to assess the quality
of its instruments until the
instruments have been in
place for some time.
5. The selling firm perceives a long-term
strategic relationship.
Example: Food.com is a fast-growing,
cash-constrained Internet
food distributor. It is
currently not profitable.
Acme Food will grant
Food.com credit for food
purchased, because
Food.com will generate
profits in the future.
Source: Shezad I. Mian and Clifford W. Smith,
“Extending Trade Credit and Financing Receiv-
ables,” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance
(Spring 1994); Marc Deloof and Marc Jegers,
“Trade Credit, Product Quality and Intragroup
Trade: Some European Evidence,” Financial
Management (Autumn 1996); and Michael
Long, I. B. Malitz, and S. A. Ravid, “Trade
Credit, Quality Guarantees, and Product
Marketability,” Financial Management (Winter
1993); Mitchell A. Petersen and Raghuram G.
Rajan, “Trade Credit: Theories and Evidence,”
The Review of Financial Studies 10 (1997).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
29. Credit Management
813
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
29.4 CREDIT ANALYSIS
When granting credit, a firm tries to distinguish between customers that will pay and cus-
tomers that will not pay. There are a number of sources of information for determining cred-
itworthiness.
Credit Information
Information commonly used to assess creditworthiness includes the following:
1. Financial Statements. A firm can ask a customer to supply financial statements. Rules
of thumb based on financial ratios can be calculated.
2. Credit Reports on Customer’s Payment History with Other Firms. Many organizations
sell information on the credit strength of business firms. The best known and largest firm
of this type is Dun & Bradstreet, which provides subscribers with a credit-reference
book and credit reports on individual firms. The reference book has credit ratings on
many thousands of businesses.
3. Banks. Banks will generally provide some assistance to their business customers in ac-
quiring information on the creditworthiness of other firms.
4. The Customer’s Payment History with the Firm. The most obvious way to obtain an
estimate of a customer’s probability of nonpayment is whether he or she has paid pre-
vious bills.
Credit Scoring
Once information has been gathered, the firm faces the hard choice of either granting or re-
fusing credit. Many firms use the traditional and subjective guidelines referred to as the
“five Cs of credit”:
1. Character. The customer’s willingness to meet credit obligations.
2. Capacity. The customer’s ability to meet credit obligations out of operating cash
flows.
3. Capital. The customer’s financial reserves.
4. Collateral. A pledged asset in the case of default.
5. Conditions. General economic conditions.
Conversely, firms such as credit-card issuers have developed elaborate statistical mod-
els (called credit-scoring models) for determining the probability of default. Usually all the
relevant and observable characteristics of a large pool of customers are studied to find their
historic relation to default. Because these models determine who is and who is not credit-
worthy, not surprisingly they have been the subject of government regulation. For example,
if a model were to find that women default more than men, it might be used to deny women
credit. This regulation removes such models from the domain of the statistician and makes
them the subject of politicians.
• What is credit analysis?
• What are the five Cs of credit?
808
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
29. Credit Management
814
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
29.5 COLLECTION POLICY
Collection refers to obtaining payment of past-due accounts. The credit manager keeps a
record of payment experiences with each customer.
Average Collection Period
Acme Compact Disc Players sells 100,000 compact disc players a year at $300 each. All
sales are for credit with terms of 2/20, net 60.
Suppose that 80 percent of Acme’s customers take the discounts and pay on day 20;
the rest pay on day 60. The average collection period (ACP) measures the average amount
of time required to collect an account receivable. The ACP for Acme is 28 days:
0.8  20 days  0.2  60 days  28 days
(The average collection period is frequently referred to as days’ sales outstanding or days
in receivables.)
Of course, this is an idealized example where customers pay on either one of two dates.
In reality, payments arrive in a random fashion, so that the average collection period must
be calculated differently.
To determine the ACP in the real world, firms first calculate average daily sales. The
average daily sales (ADS) equal annual sales divided by 365. The ADS of Acme are
If receivables today are $2,301,376, the average collection period is
In practice, firms observe sales and receivables on a daily basis. Consequently, an average
collection period can be computed and compared to the stated credit terms. For example,
suppose Acme had computed its ACP at 40 days for several weeks, versus its credit terms
of 2/20, net 60. With a 40-day ACP, some customers are paying later than usual. It may be
that some accounts are overdue.
However, firms with seasonal sales will often find the calculated ACP changing dur-
ing the year, making the ACP a somewhat flawed tool. This occurs because receivables are
low before the selling season and high after the season. Thus, firms may keep track of sea-
sonal movement in the ACP over past years. In this way, they can compare the ACP for to-
day’s date with the average ACP for that date in previous years. To supplement the infor-
mation in the ACP, the credit manager may make up an accounts receivable aging schedule.
Aging Schedule
The aging schedule tabulates receivables by age of account. In the following schedule, 75
percent of the accounts are on time, but a significant number are more than 60 days past
due. This signifies that some customers are in arrears.
 28 days
 $2,301,736
$82,192
Average collection period  Accounts receivable
Average daily sales
Average daily sales  $300  100,000
365 days
 $82,192
Chapter 29
Credit Management
809

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
29. Credit Management
815
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Aging Schedule
Percentage of Total Value
Age of Account
of Accounts Receivable
0–20 days
50%
21–60 days
25
61–80 days
20
Over 80 days
5
___
100%
The aging schedule changes during the year. Comparatively, the ACP is a somewhat flawed
tool because it only gives the yearly average. Some firms have refined it so that they can ex-
amine how it changes with peaks and valleys in their sales. Similarly, the aging schedule is
often augmented by the payments pattern. The payments pattern describes the lagged col-
lection pattern of receivables. Like a mortality table that describes the probability that a 23-
year-old will live to be 24, the payments pattern describes the probability that a 67-day-old
account will still be unpaid when it is 68 days old.
Collection Effort
The firm usually employs the following procedures for customers that are overdue:
1. Sends a delinquency letter informing the customer of the past-due status of the 
account.
2. Makes a telephone call to the customer.
3. Employs a collection agency.
4. Takes legal action against the customer.
At times, a firm may refuse to grant additional credit to customers until arrearages are paid.
This may antagonize a normally good customer and points to a potential conflict of inter-
est between the collections department and the sales department.
Factoring
Factoring refers to the sale of a firm’s accounts receivable to a financial institution known
as a factor. The firm and the factor agree on the basic credit terms for each customer. The
customer sends payment directly to the factor, and the factor bears the risk of nonpaying
customers. The factor buys the receivables at a discount, which usually ranges from 0.35 to
4 percent of the value of the invoice amount. The average discount throughout the economy
is probably about 1 percent.
One point should be stressed. We have presented the elements of credit policy as
though they were somewhat independent of each other. In fact, they are closely interrelated.
For example, the optimal credit policy is not independent of collection and monitoring poli-
cies. A tighter collection policy can reduce the probability of default and this in turn can
raise the NPV of a more liberal credit policy.
• What tools can a manager use to analyze a collection policy?
810
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
29. Credit Management
816
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
29.6 HOW TO FINANCE TRADE CREDIT
In addition to unsecured debt instruments described earlier in this chapter, there are three
general ways of financing accounting receivables: secured debt, a captive finance company,
and securitization.
Use of secured debt is usually referred to as asset-based receivables financing. This is
the predominant form of receivables financing. Many lenders will not lend without security
to firms with substantive uncertainty or little equity. With secured debt, if the borrower gets
into financial difficulty, the lender can repossess the asset and sell it for its fair market value.
Many large firms with good credit ratings use captive finance companies. The captive
finance companies are subsidiaries of the parent firm. This is similar to the use of secured
debt because the creditors of the captive finance company have a claim on its assets and, as
a consequence, the accounts receivable of the parent firm. A captive finance company is at-
tractive if economies of scale are important and if an independent subsidiary with limited
liability is warranted.
Securitization occurs when the selling firm sells its accounts receivable to a financial
institution. The financial institution pools the receivables with other receivables and issues
securities to finance items.
29.7 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1. The components of a firm’s credit policy are the terms of sale, the credit analysis, and the
collection policy.
2. The terms of sale describe the amount and period of time for which credit is granted and the
type of credit instrument.
3. The decision to grant credit is a straightforward NPV decision, and can be improved by
additional information about the payment characteristics of the customers. Additional
information about the customers’ probability of defaulting is valuable, but this value must be
traded off against the expense of acquiring the information.
4. The optimal amount of credit the firm offers is a function of the competitive conditions in
which it finds itself. These conditions will determine the carrying costs associated with
granting credit and the opportunity costs of the lost sales from refusing to offer credit. The
optimal credit policy minimizes the sum of these two costs.
5. We have seen that knowledge of the probability that customers will default is valuable. To
enhance its ability to assess customers’ default probability, a firm can score credit. This
relates the default probability to observable characteristics of customers.
6. The collection policy is the method of dealing with past-due accounts. The first step is to
analyze the average collection period and to prepare an aging schedule that relates the age of
accounts to the proportion of the accounts receivable they represent. The next step is to
decide on the collection method and to evaluate the possibility of factoring, that is, selling the
overdue accounts.
Chapter 29
Credit Management
811

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
29. Credit Management
817
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
KEY TERMS
Aging schedule
809
Credit instrument
801
Average collection period (ACP)
809
Credit periods
799
Average daily sales (ADS)
809
Credit scoring
808
Cash discounts
800
Factoring
810
Collection policy
798
Invoice
798
Credit analysis
798
Terms of the sale
798
SUGGESTED READINGS
The following articles are important for an understanding of how to make short-term financial
decisions:
Sartoris, W. L., and N. C. Hill. “Evaluating Credit Policy Alternatives: A Present Value
Framework.” Journal of Financial Research 4 (Spring 1981), p. 1.
______ “A Generalized Cash Flow Approach to Short-Term Financial Decisions.” Journal of
Finance 38 (May 1983), p. 3.
Our treatment of the credit decision owes much to:
Bierman, H., Jr., and W. H. Hausman. “The Credit Granting Decision.” Management Science 16
(April 1970), and Mian, Shezad I., and Clifford W. Smith. “Extending Trade Credit and
Financial Receivables.” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance (Spring 1994).
Three recent articles that establish a theoretical framework and some empirical work on trade
credit:
Mian, S. I., and C. Smith. “Extending Trade Credit and Financing Receivables.” Journal of
Applied Corporate Finance (Spring 1994).
Long, M. S.; I. B. Malitz; and S. A. Ravid. “Trade Credit, Quality Guarantees, and Product
Marketability.” Financial Management (Winter 1993).
Lee, Y. W., and J. D. Stowe. “Product Risk, Asymmetric Introduction and Trade Credit.” Journal
of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (June 1993).
An interesting normative article on how to establish trade credit limits is:
Scherr, F. C. “Optimal Trade Credit Limits.” Financial Management (Spring 1996).
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Terms of the Sale
29.1 The North County Publishing Company has provided the following data:
Annual credit sales  $10 million
Average collection period  60 days
Terms: Net 30
Interest rate  10%
North County Publishing proposes to offer a discount policy of 2/10, net 30. It anticipates
that 50 percent of its customers will take advantage of this new policy. As a result, the
collection period will be reduced to 30 days. Should the North County Publishing
Company offer the new credit terms?
29.2 The Webster’s Company sells on credit terms of net 45. Its accounts are on average 45
days past due. If annual credit sales are $5 million, what is the company’s balance in
accounts receivable?
812
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
29. Credit Management
818
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
29.3 The Tropeland Company has obtained the following information:
Annual credit sales  $30 million
Collection period  60 days
Terms: Net 30
Interest rate  12%
The company is considering offering terms of 4/10, net 30. It anticipates that 50 percent of
its customers will take advantage of the discount. The collection period is expected to
decrease by one month. Should the new credit policy be adopted?
The Decision to Grant Credit: Risk and Information
29.4 Berkshire Sports, Inc., operates a mail-order running-shoe business. Management is
considering dropping its policy of no credit. The credit policy under consideration by
Berkshire follows:
No Credit
Credit
Price per unit
$35
$40
Cost per unit
$25
$32
Quantity sold
2,000
3,000
Probability of payment
100%
85%
Credit period
0
1
Discount rate
0
3%
a. Should Berkshire offer credit to its customers?
b. What must the probability of payment be before Berkshire would adopt the policy?
29.5 The Theodore Bruin Corporation, a manufacturer of high-quality stuffed animals, does not
extend credit to its customers. A study has shown that, by offering credit, the company can
increase sales from the current 750 units to 1,000 units. The cost per unit, however, will
increase from $43 to $45, reflecting the expense of managing accounts receivable. The
current price of a toy is $48. The probability of a customer making a payment on a credit
sale is 92 percent, and the appropriate discount rate is 2.7 percent. 
By how much should Theodore Bruin increase the price to make offering credit an
attractive strategy?
29.6 Fast Typing Co. is in the business of manufacturing and selling Fast-Line Typewriters. It
does not offer any credit sales currently. The per unit price and cost of each Fast-Line
typewriter are $900 and $600, respectively. Fast Typing Co. is considering the possibility
of credit sales. The market price of the typewriter will stay the same with credit sales, but
it is expected that the annual sales will increase from 5,000 units to 9,000 units and the per
unit cost will go up by $50 due to implementation cost of credit sales. The credit period
will be two months and the appropriate discount rate for the credit period is 1.5 percent.
What is the minimum probability of repayment that can make Fast Typing Co. indifferent
between whether or not to implement the new credit policy?
29.7 The Silver Spokes Bicycle Shop has decided to offer credit to its customers during the
spring selling season. Sales are expected to be 300 cycles. The average cost to the shop of
a cycle is $240. The owner knows that only 95 percent of the customers will be able to
make their payments. To identify the remaining 5 percent, she is considering subscribing
to a credit agency. The initial charge for this service is $500, with an additional charge of
$4 per individual report. Should she subscribe to the agency?
Optimal Credit Policy
29.8 In principle, how should we decide the optimal credit policy?
Chapter 29
Credit Management
813

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VII. Financial Planning and 
Short−Term Finance
29. Credit Management
819
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Credit Analysis
29.9 What is the information commonly used to assess creditworthiness of a client?
Collection Policy
29.10 Major Electronics sells 85,000 personal stereos each year at a price per unit of $55. All
sales are on credit; the terms are 3/15, net 40. The discount is taken by 40 percent of the
customers. What is the investment in accounts receivable?
In reaction to a competitor, Major Electronics is considering changing its credit
terms to 5/15, net 40, to preserve its sales level. Describe qualitatively how this policy
change will affect the company’s investment in accounts receivable.
29.11 The Allen Company has monthly credit sales of $600,000. The average collection period
is 90 days. The cost of production is 70 percent of the selling price. What is the Allen
Company’s average investment in accounts receivable?
29.12 The factoring department of Inter American Bank (IAB) is processing 100,000 invoices
per year with average invoice value of $1,500. IAB buys the accounts receivable at 4
percent off the invoice value. The average collection period is 30 days. Currently 2
percent of the accounts receivable turns out to be bad debt. The annual interest rate is 10
percent. The annual operating expense of this department is $400,000. What is the gross
profit before interest and tax for the factoring department of IAB?
814
Part VII
Financial Planning and Short-Term Finance

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
Introduction
820
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Special Topics
PART VIII
30 Mergers and Acquisitions
816
31 Financial Distress
854
32 International Corporate Finance
872
I
N Part VIII we discuss three special topics: mergers and acquisitions, financial dis-
tress, and international corporate finance.
Chapter 30 describes the corporate finance of mergers and acquisitions. The acqui-
sition of one firm by another is a capital-budgeting decision, and the basic principles of
NPV apply; that is, a firm should be acquired if it generates positive NPV to the share-
holders of the acquiring firm. The purpose of Chapter 30 is to discuss how to value an
acquisition candidate. However, the NPV of an acquisition candidate is more difficult to
determine than that of a typical investment project because of complex accounting, tax,
and legal effects.
Chapter 31 discusses what happens when a firm experiences financial distress. Fi-
nancial distress is a special circumstance when a firm’s cash flow falls below its con-
tractually required payments. Financial restructuring involving private workouts or for-
mal bankruptcy usually follows financial distress.
Our last chapter concerns international corporate finance. Many firms have signifi-
cant foreign operations and must consider special financial factors that do not directly
affect purely domestic firms. These factors include foreign exchange rates, interest rates
that vary from country to country, and complex accounting, legal, and tax rules.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
821
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Mergers and Acquisitions
CHAPTER 30
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
T
here is no more dramatic or controversial activity in corporate finance than the ac-
quisition of one firm by another or the merger of two firms. This chapter addresses
two basic questions: Why does a firm choose to merge with or acquire another firm
and how does it happen?
The acquisition of one firm by another is, of course, an investment made under un-
certainty. The basic principle of valuation applies: a firm should be acquired if it generates
a positive net present value to the shareholders of the acquiring firm. However, because
the NPV of an acquisition candidate is very difficult to determine, mergers and acquisi-
tions are interesting topics in their own right. Here are some of the special features of this
area of finance:
1. The benefits from acquisitions are called synergies. It is hard to estimate synergies us-
ing discounted cash flow techniques. 
2. There are complex accounting, tax, and legal effects when one firm is acquired by an-
other.
3. Acquisitions are an important control device of shareholders. It appears that some ac-
quisitions are a consequence of an underlying conflict between the interests of existing
managers and of shareholders. Acquisition by another firm is one way that shareholders
can remove managers with whom they are unhappy.
4. Acquisition analysis frequently focuses on the total value of the firms involved. But usu-
ally an acquisition will affect the relative values of stocks and bonds, as well as their to-
tal value. 
5. Mergers and acquisitions sometimes involve unfriendly transactions. Thus, when one
firm attempts to acquire another, it does not always involve quiet, gentlemanly negotia-
tions. The sought-after firm may use defensive tactics, including poison pills, greenmail,
and white knights.
This chapter starts by introducing the basic legal, accounting, and tax aspects of ac-
quisitions. When one firm acquires another, it must choose the legal framework, the ac-
counting method, and tax status. These choices will be explained throughout the chapter.
The chapter discusses how to determine the NPV of an acquisition candidate. The
NPV of an acquisition candidate is the difference between the synergy from the merger
and the premium to be paid. We consider the following types of synergy: (1) revenue en-
hancement, (2) cost reduction, (3) lower taxes, and (4) lower cost of capital. The pre-
mium paid for an acquisition is the price paid minus the market value of the acquisition
prior to the merger. The premium depends on whether cash or securities are used to fi-
nance the offer price. 

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
822
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
30.1 THE BASIC FORMS OF ACQUISITIONS
There are three basic legal procedures that one firm can use to acquire another firm:
(1) merger or consolidation, (2) acquisition of stock, and (3) acquisition of assets.
Merger or Consolidation
A merger refers to the absorption of one firm by another. The acquiring firm retains its
name and its identity, and it acquires all of the assets and liabilities of the acquired firm. Af-
ter a merger, the acquired firm ceases to exist as a separate business entity. 
A consolidation is the same as a merger except that an entirely new firm is created. In
a consolidation, both the acquiring firm and the acquired firm terminate their previous le-
gal existence and become part of the new firm. In a consolidation, the distinction between
the acquiring and the acquired firm is not important. However, the rules for mergers and
consolidations are basically the same. Acquisitions by merger and consolidation result in
combinations of the assets and liabilities of acquired and acquiring firms. 
EXAMPLE
Suppose firm A acquires firm B in a merger. Further, suppose firm B’s sharehold-
ers are given one share of firm A’s stock in exchange for two shares of firm B’s
stock. From a legal standpoint, firm A’s shareholders are not directly affected by
the merger. However, firm B’s shares cease to exist. In a consolidation, the share-
holders of firm A and firm B would exchange their shares for the share of a new
firm (e.g., firm C). Because the differences between mergers and consolidations
are not all that important for our purposes, we shall refer to both types of reor-
ganizations as mergers.
There are some advantages and some disadvantages to using a merger to acquire a firm:
1. A merger is legally straightforward and does not cost as much as other forms of acqui-
sition. It avoids the necessity of transferring title of each individual asset of the acquired
firm to the acquiring firm.
2. A merger must be approved by a vote of the stockholders of each firm.1 Typically, votes
of the owners of two-thirds of the shares are required for approval. In addition, share-
holders of the acquired firm have appraisal rights. This means that they can demand that
their shares be purchased at a fair value by the acquiring firm. Often the acquiring firm
and the dissenting shareholders of the acquired firm cannot agree on a fair value, which
results in expensive legal proceedings.
Acquisition of Stock
A second way to acquire another firm is to purchase the firm’s voting stock in exchange for
cash, shares of stock, or other securities. This may start as a private offer from the manage-
ment of one firm to another. At some point the offer is taken directly to the selling firm’s stock-
holders. This can be accomplished by use of a tender offer. A tender offer is a public offer to
buy shares of a target firm. It is made by one firm directly to the shareholders of another firm.
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
817
1Mergers between corporations require compliance with state laws. In virtually all states the shareholders of
each corporation must give their assent.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
823
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The offer is communicated to the target firm’s shareholders by public announcements such as
newspaper advertisements. Sometimes a general mailing is used in a tender offer. However, a
general mailing is very difficult because it requires the names and addresses of the stock-
holders of record, which are not usually available.
The following are factors involved in choosing between an acquisition of stock and
a merger:
1. In an acquisition of stock, no shareholder meetings must be held and no vote is required.
If the shareholders of the target firm do not like the offer, they are not required to accept
it and they will not tender their shares.
2. In an acquisition of stock, the bidding firm can deal directly with the shareholders of a
target firm by using a tender offer. The target firm’s management and board of directors
can be bypassed.
3. Acquisition of stock is often unfriendly. It is used in an effort to circumvent the target
firm’s management, which is usually actively resisting acquisition. Resistance by the
target firm’s management often makes the cost of acquisition by stock higher than the
cost by merger. 
4. Frequently a minority of shareholders will hold out in a tender offer, and thus the target
firm cannot be completely absorbed.
5. Complete absorption of one firm by another requires a merger. Many acquisitions of
stock end with a formal merger later.
Acquisition of Assets
One firm can acquire another firm by buying all of its assets. A formal vote of the share-
holders of the selling firm is required. This approach to acquisition will avoid the potential
problem of having minority shareholders, which can occur in an acquisition of stock. Ac-
quisition of assets involves transferring title to assets. The legal process of transferring as-
sets can be costly.
A Classification Scheme
Financial analysts have typically classified acquisitions into three types:
1. Horizontal Acquisition. This is an acquisition of a firm in the same industry as the ac-
quiring firm. The firms compete with each other in their product market.
2. Vertical Acquisition. A vertical acquisition involves firms at different steps of the pro-
duction process. The acquisition by an airline company of a travel agency would be a
vertical acquisition.
3. Conglomerate Acquisition. The acquiring firm and the acquired firm are not related to
each other. The acquisition of a food-products firm by a computer firm would be con-
sidered a conglomerate acquisition. 
A Note on Takeovers
Takeover is a general and imprecise term referring to the transfer of control of a firm from one
group of shareholders to another.2 A firm that has decided to take over another firm is usually
referred to as the bidder. The bidder offers to pay cash or securities to obtain the stock or as-
sets of another company. If the offer is accepted, the target firm will give up control over its
stock or assets to the bidder in exchange for consideration (i.e., its stock, its debt, or cash).
2Control may be defined as having a majority vote on the board of directors.
818
Part VIII
Special Topics

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
824
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
For example, when a bidding firm acquires a target firm, the right to control the oper-
ating activities of the target firm is transferred to a newly elected board of directors of the
acquiring firm. This is a takeover by acquisition.
Takeovers can occur by acquisition, proxy contests, and going-private transactions. Thus,
takeovers encompass a broader set of activities than acquisitions. Figure 30.1 depicts this.
If a takeover is achieved by acquisition, it will be by merger, tender offer for shares of
stock, or purchase of assets. In mergers and tender offers, the acquiring firm buys the vot-
ing common stock of the acquired firm.
Takeovers can occur with proxy contests. Proxy contests occur when a group of share-
holders attempts to gain controlling seats on the board of directors by voting in new direc-
tors. A proxy authorizes the proxy holder to vote on all matters in a shareholders’ meeting.
In a proxy contest, proxies from the rest of the shareholders are solicited by an insurgent
group of shareholders.
In going-private transactions, all the equity shares of a public firm are purchased by a
small group of investors. The group usually includes members of incumbent management
and some outside investors. The shares of the firm are delisted from stock exchanges and
can no longer be purchased in the open market.
• What is a merger? How does a merger differ from other forms of acquisition?
• What is a takeover?
30.2 THE TAX FORMS OF ACQUISITIONS
If one firm buys another firm, the transaction may be taxable or tax-free. In a taxable ac-
quisition, the shareholders of the acquired firm are considered to have sold their shares, and
they have realized capital gains or losses that will be taxed. In a taxable transaction, the ap-
praised value of the assets of the selling firm may be revalued, as we explain below.
In a tax-free acquisition, the selling shareholders are considered to have exchanged
their old shares for new ones of equal value, and they have experienced no capital gains or
losses. In a tax-free acquisition, the assets are not revalued.
EXAMPLE
Suppose that 15 years ago Bill Evans started Samurai Machinery (SM) and pur-
chased plant and equipment costing $80,000. These have been the only assets of
SM, and the company has no debts. Bill is the sole proprietor of SM and owns all
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
819
Takeovers
Acquisition
Proxy contest
Going private
Merger or consolidation
Acquisition of stock
Acquisition of assets
I FIGURE 30.1 Varieties of Takeovers
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
825
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
the shares. For tax purposes the assets of SM have been depreciated using the
straight-line method over 10 years, and have no salvage value. The annual depre-
ciation expense has been $8,000 ($80,000/10). The machinery has no accounting
value today (i.e., it has been written off the books). However, because of inflation,
the fair market value of the machinery is $200,000. As a consequence, the S. A.
Steel Company has bid $200,000 for all of the outstanding stock of Samurai.
Tax-Free Transaction
If Bill Evans receives shares of S. A. Steel worth $200,000, the
IRS will treat the sale as a tax-free transaction. Thus, Bill will not have to pay taxes on any
gain received from the stock. In addition, S. A. Steel will be allowed the same depreciation
deduction that Samurai Machinery was allowed. Because the asset has already been fully
depreciated, S. A. Steel will receive no depreciation deduction.
Taxable Transaction
If S. A. Steel pays $200,000 in cash for Samurai Machinery, it will
be a taxable transaction. There will be a number of tax consequences:
1. In the year of the merger, Bill Evans must pay taxes on the difference between the merger
price of $200,000 and his initial contribution to the firm of $80,000. Thus, his taxable
income is $120,000 ($200,000  $80,000).
2. S. A. Steel may elect to write up the value of the machinery. In this case, S. A. Steel will
be able to depreciate the machinery from an initial tax basis of $200,000. If S. A. Steel de-
preciates straight-line over 10 years, depreciation will be $20,000 ($200,000/10) per year.
If S. A. Steel elects to write up the machinery, S. A. Steel must treat the $200,000
write-up as taxable income immediately.3
3. Should S. A. Steel not elect the write-up, there is no increase in depreciation. Thus, de-
preciation remains zero in this example. In addition, because there is no write-up, S. A.
Steel does not need to recognize any additional taxable income.
Because the tax benefits from depreciation occur slowly over time and the taxable
income is recognized immediately, the acquirer generally elects not to write up the value
of the machinery in a taxable transaction.
Because the write-up is not allowed for tax-free transactions and generally not chosen
for taxable ones, the only real tax difference between the two types of transactions concerns
the taxation of the selling shareholders. Because these individuals can defer taxes under a
tax-free situation but must pay taxes immediately under a taxable situation, the tax-free
transaction has better tax consequences. The tax implications for both types of transactions
are displayed in Table 30.1.
30.3 ACCOUNTING FOR ACQUISITIONS
Earlier in this text we mentioned that firms keep two distinct sets of books: the stockhold-
ers’ books and the tax books. The previous section concerned the effect of acquisitions on
the tax books. We now consider the stockholders’ books. When one firm acquires another
firm, the acquisition will be treated as either a purchase or a pooling of interests on the
stockholders’ books.
820
Part VIII
Special Topics
3Technically, Samurai Machinery pays this tax. However, because Samurai is now a subsidiary of S. A. Steel,
S. A. Steel is the effective taxpayer.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
826
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The Purchase Method
The purchase method of reporting acquisitions requires that the assets of the acquired firm
be reported at their fair market value on the books of the acquiring firm. This allows the ac-
quiring firm to establish a new cost basis for the acquired assets. 
In a purchase, an accounting term called goodwill is created. Goodwill is the excess of
the purchase price over the sum of the fair market values of the individual assets acquired. 
EXAMPLE
Suppose firm A acquires firm B, creating a new firm, AB. Firm A’s and firm B’s fi-
nancial positions at the date of the acquisition are shown in Table 30.2. The book
value of firm B on the date of the acquisition is $10 million. This is the sum of $8
million in buildings and $2 million in cash. However, an appraiser states that the
sum of the fair market values of the individual buildings is $14 million. With $2
million in cash, the sum of the market values of the individual assets in firm B is
$16 million. This represents the value to be received if the firm is liquidated by
selling off the individual assets separately. However, the whole is often worth more
than the sum of the parts in business. Firm A pays $19 million in cash for firm B.
This difference of $3 million ($19 million  $16 million) is goodwill. It represents
the increase in value by keeping the firm intact as an ongoing business. Firm A is-
sued $19 million in new debt to finance the acquisition. The last balance sheet in
Table 30.2 shows what happens under purchase accounting. 
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
821
I TABLE 30.1 The Incremental Tax Consequences of S. A. Steel
Company’s Acquisition of Samurai Machinery
Type of Acquisition
Buyer or Seller
Taxable Acquisition
Tax-Free Acquisition
Bill Evans
Immediate tax on $120,000 
Capital gain tax not paid until 
($200,000  $80,000)
Evans sells shares of S. A. Steel 
S. A. Steel
S. A. Steel may elect to write up 
No additional depreciation
assets. Here:
1. Assets of Samurai written up to 
$200,000 (with useful life of 
10 years). Annual depreciation 
expense is $20,000.
2. Immediate tax on $200,000 write-up 
of assets.
Alternatively, S. A. Steel may elect not 
to write up assets. Here, there is neither 
additional depreciation nor immediate 
tax. Typically, acquirer elects not to 
write up assets.
S. A. Steel acquires Samurai Machinery for $200,000, which is the market value of Samurai’s equipment. The
book value of the equipment is $0. Bill Evans started Samurai Steel 15 years ago with a contribution of $80,000. 
The tax consequences of a tax-free acquisition are better than the tax consequences of a taxable acquisition,
because the seller pays no immediate tax on a tax-free acquisition.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
827
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
1. The total assets of firm AB increase to $39 million. The buildings of firm B ap-
pear in the new balance sheet at their current market value. That is, the market
value of the assets of the acquired firm becomes part of the book value of the
new firm. However, the assets of the acquiring firm (firm A) remain at their old
book value. They are not revalued upwards when the new firm is created. 
2. The excess of the purchase price over the sum of the fair market values of the
individual assets acquired is $3 million. This amount is reported as goodwill.
Goodwill will be amortized over a period of years on the stockholders’ books.
However, the amortization expenses are not tax-deductible.
Pooling of Interests
Under a pooling of interests, the assets of the new firm are valued at the same level at which
they were carried on the books of the acquired and acquiring firms. Using the previous ex-
ample, assume that firm A issues common stock with a market value of $19 million to ac-
quire firm B. Table 30.3 illustrates this merger.
The new firm is owned jointly by all the stockholders of the previously separate firms.
The total assets and the total equity are unchanged by the acquisition. No goodwill is cre-
ated. Furthermore, the $19 million used to acquire firm B does not appear in Table 30.3.
Purchase or Pooling of Interests: A Comparison
Pooling of interests is used when the acquiring firm issues voting stock in exchange for at
least 90 percent of the outstanding voting stock of the acquired firm. Purchase accounting
is generally used under other financing arrangements. Though there are many possible
arrangements, the most common is that the acquiring firm distributes cash and bonds to ob-
tain the assets or stock of the acquired firm.
We mentioned above that, in purchase accounting, goodwill is amortized over a period
of years on the stockholders’ books. Therefore, just like depreciation, the amortization ex-
pense reduces income on the stockholders’ books. In addition, the assets of the acquired
firm are written up on the stockholders’books in purchase accounting. This creates a higher
822
Part VIII
Special Topics
I TABLE 30.2 Accounting for Acquisitions: Purchase (in $ millions)
Firm A
Firm B
Cash
$ 4
Equity
$20
Cash
$2
Equity
$10
Land
16
Land
0
Buildings
0
Buildings
8
___
___
___
___
Total
$20
$20
Total
$10
$10
___
___
___
___
___
___
___
___
Firm AB
Cash
$ 6
Debt
$19
Land
16
Equity
20
Buildings
14
Goodwill
3
___
___
Total
$39
$39
___
___
___
___
When the purchase method is used, the assets of the acquired firm (firm B) appear in the combined firm’s books
at their fair market value.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
828
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
depreciation expense for the combined firm than would be the case for a pooling. Due to
both goodwill and asset write-ups, purchase accounting will usually result in lower reported
income on the stockholders’ books than will pooling.
The previous paragraph concerns effects on the stockholders’books, not the tax books.
Because the amount of tax-deductible expenses is not affected by the method of acquisition
accounting, cash flows are not affected. Hence, the net present value of the acquisition
should be the same whether pooling or purchase accounting is used.4
• What is the difference between purchase accounting and pooling-of-interests accounting?
30.4 DETERMINING THE SYNERGY FROM AN ACQUISITION
Suppose firm A is contemplating acquiring firm B. The value of firm A is VA and the value
of firm B is VB. (It is reasonable to assume that, for public companies, VA and VB can be de-
termined by observing the market price of the outstanding securities.) The difference be-
tween the value of the combined firm (VAB) and the sum of the values of the firms as sepa-
rate entities is the synergy from the acquisition:
Synergy  VAB  (VA  VB)
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
823
I TABLE 30.3 Accounting for Acquisitions: Pooling of Interests 
(in $ millions)
Firm A
Firm B
Cash
$ 4
Equity
$20
Cash
$2
Equity
$10
Land
16
Land
0
Buildings
0
Buildings
8
___
___
___
___
Total
$20
$20
Total
$10
$10
___
___
___
___
___
___
___
___
Firm AB
Cash
$ 6
Equity
$30
Land
16
Buildings
8
___
___
Total
$30
$30
___
___
___
___
In a pooling of interests, the assets appear in the combined firm’s books at the same value that they had in each
separate firm’s books prior to the merger.
4It is widely believed that chief financial officers prefer the pooling-of-interests accounting method because of
its advantageous treatment of earnings. However, Eric Lindenberg and Michael P. Ross, “To Purchase or to
Pool? Does it Matter?” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance (Summer 1999), find it really doesn’t matter
which method is used. In any case, on April 21, 1999, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
announced its intent to eliminate the pooling-of-interests accounting method. It is widely expected that the
ruling will take effect in early 2001. 
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
829
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The acquiring firm must generally pay a premium for the acquired firm. For example,
if stock of the target is selling for $50, the acquirer might need to pay $60 a share, imply-
ing a premium of $10 or 20 percent. Firm A will want to determine the synergy before en-
tering into negotiations with firm B on the premium.
The synergy of an acquisition can be determined from the usual discounted cash flow
model:
Synergy 
where CFt is the difference between the cash flows at date t of the combined firm and the
sum of the cash flows of the two separate firms. In other words, CFt is the incremental
cash flow at date t from the merger. The term, r, is the risk-adjusted discount rate appropri-
ate for the incremental cash flows. This is generally considered to be the required rate of re-
turn on the equity of the target.
From the chapters on capital budgeting we know that the incremental cash flows can
be separated into four parts:
CFt  Revt  Costst  Taxest  Capital Requirementst
where Revt is the incremental revenue of the acquisition, Costst is the incremental costs
of the acquisition, Taxest is the incremental acquisition taxes, and Capital Requirementst
is the incremental new investment required in working capital and fixed assets.
30.5 SOURCE OF SYNERGY FROM ACQUISITIONS
It follows from our classification of incremental cash flows that the possible sources of syn-
ergy fall into four basic categories: revenue enhancement, cost reduction, lower taxes, and
lower cost of capital.5
Revenue Enhancement
One important reason for acquisitions is that a combined firm may generate greater rev-
enues than two separate firms. Increased revenues may come from marketing gains, strate-
gic benefits, and market power.
Marketing Gains
It is frequently claimed that mergers and acquisitions can produce greater
operating revenues from improved marketing. Improvements can be made in the following:

 
T
t1
CFt
1  r t
824
Part VIII
Special Topics
5Many reasons are given by firms to justify mergers and acquisitions. When two firms merge, the boards of
directors of the two firms adopt an agreement of merger. The agreement of merger of U.S. Steel and Marathon
Oil is typical. It lists the economic benefits that shareholders can expect from the merger (key words have been
italicized):
U.S Steel believes that the acquisition of Marathon provides U.S. Steel with an attractive opportunity to
diversify into the energy business. Reasons for the merger include, but are not limited to, the facts that
consummation of the merger will allow U.S. Steel to consolidate Marathon into U.S. Steel’s federal income
tax return, will also contribute to greater efficiency, and will enhance the ability to manage capital by
permitting the movement of cash between U.S. Steel and Marathon. Additionally, the merger will eliminate
the possibility of conflicts of interests between the interests of minority and majority shareholders and will
enhance management flexibility. The acquisition will provide Marathon shareholders with a substantial
premium over historical market prices for their shares. However, shareholders will no longer continue to
share in the future prospects of the company.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
830
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
1. Previously ineffective media programming and advertising efforts.
2. A weak existing distribution network.
3. An unbalanced product mix.
Strategic Benefits
Some acquisitions promise a strategic advantage.6 This is an opportu-
nity to take advantage of the competitive environment if certain situations materialize. In this
regard, a strategic benefit is more like an option than it is a standard investment opportunity.
For example, imagine that a sewing machine company acquired a computer company. The
firm will be well positioned if technological advances allow computer-driven sewing ma-
chines in the future. Michael Porter has used the word beachhead in his description of the
process of entering a new industry to exploit perceived opportunities.7 The beachhead is used
to spawn new opportunities based on intangible relationships. He uses the example of Proc-
ter & Gamble’s initial acquisition of the Charmin Paper Company as a beachhead that al-
lowed Procter & Gamble to develop a highly interrelated cluster of paper products—dispos-
able diapers, paper towels, feminine hygiene products, and bathroom tissue. 
Market or Monopoly Power
One firm may acquire another to reduce competition. If so,
prices can be increased and monopoly profits obtained. Mergers that reduce competition do
not benefit society and may be challenged by the U.S. Department of Justice or the Federal
Trade Commission.
The empirical evidence does not suggest that increased market power is a significant
reason for mergers. If monopoly power is increased through an acquisition, all firms in the
industry should benefit as the price of the industry’s product is increased. However,
Stillman’s and Eckbo’s examination of the share prices of firms that compete with the
merger target when a merger announcement is made indicate that this is not the case.8 They
find no consistent tendency for the share prices of rivals to increase, and, thus, the Stillman-
Eckbo data do not support the monopoly-power theory.
Cost Reduction
One of the most basic reasons for merger is that a combined firm may operate more effi-
ciently than two separate firms. Thus, when Bank of America agreed to acquire Security
Pacific, lower costs were cited as the primary reason. A firm can obtain greater operating
efficiency in several different ways through a merger or an acquisition. 
Economies of Scale
If the average cost of production falls while the level of production
increases, there is said to be an economy of scale. Figure 30.2 illustrates that economies of
scale result while the firm grows to its optimal size. After this point, diseconomies of scale
occur. In other words, average cost increases with further firm growth.
Though the precise nature of economy of scale is not known, it is one obvious benefit
of horizontal mergers. The phrase spreading overhead is frequently used in connection with
economies of scale. This refers to the sharing of central facilities such as corporate head-
quarters, top management, and a large mainframe computer. 
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
825
6For a discussion of the financial side of strategic planning, see S. C. Myers, “Finance Theory and Finance
Strategy,” Interfaces 14 (January–February 1984), p. 1.
7M. Porter, Competitive Advantage (New York: Free Press, 1985).
8R. Stillman, “Examining Antitrust Policy toward Horizontal Mergers,” Journal of Financial Economics 11
(April 1983); and E. B. Eckbo, “Horizontal Mergers, Collusion and Stockholder Wealth,” Journal of Financial
Economics 11 (April 1983).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
831
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Economies of Vertical Integration
Operating economies can be gained from vertical
combinations as well as from horizontal combinations. The main purpose of vertical ac-
quisitions is to make coordination of closely related operating activities easier. This is prob-
ably the reason why most forest product firms that cut timber also own sawmills and haul-
ing equipment. Economies from vertical integration probably explain why most airline
companies own airplanes; it also may explain why some airline companies have purchased
hotels and car-rental companies.
Technology transfers are another reason for vertical integration. Consider the merger
of General Motors and Hughes Aircraft in 1985. An automobile manufacturer might well
acquire an advanced electronics firm if the special technology of the electronics firm can
improve the quality of the automobile.
Complementary Resources
Some firms acquire others to make better use of existing re-
sources or to provide the missing ingredient for success. Think of a ski-equipment store that
could merge with a tennis-equipment store to produce more even sales over both the win-
ter and summer seasons—and better use of store capacity.
Elimination of Inefficient Management
There are firms whose value could be increased
with a change in management. For example, Jensen and Ruback argue that acquisitions can
occur because of changing technology or market conditions that require a restructuring of
the corporation.9 Incumbent managers in some cases do not understand changing conditions.
They have trouble abandoning strategies and styles they have spent years formulating.
The oil industry is an example of managerial inefficiency cited by Jensen. In the late
1970s, changes in the oil industry included reduced expectations of the future price of oil,
increased exploration and development costs, and increased real interest rates. As a result
of these changes, substantial reductions in exploration and development were called for.
However, many oil company managers were unable to “downsize” their firms. For exam-
826
Part VIII
Special Topics
Average
cost
Minimum
cost
Economies of
scale
Diseconomies
of scale
Optimal
size
Size
I FIGURE 30.2 Economies of Scale and the Optimal Size of the Firm
9M. C. Jensen and R. S. Ruback, “The Market for Corporate Control: The Scientific Evidence,” Journal of
Financial Economics 11 (April 1983); and M. C. Jensen, “Agency Costs of Free Cash Flow, Corporate Finance
and Takeovers,” American Economic Review (May 1986).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
832
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
ple, a study by McConnell and Muscarella reports that the stock prices of oil companies
tended to decrease with announcements of increases in exploration and development ex-
penditures in the period of 1975–1981.10
Acquiring companies sought out oil firms in order to reduce the investment levels of these
oil companies.11 For example, T. Boone Pickens of Mesa Petroleum perceived the changes
taking place in the oil industry and attempted to buy several oil companies: Unocal, Phillips,
and Getty. The results of these attempted acquisitions have been reduced expenditures on ex-
ploration and development and huge gains to the shareholders of the affected firms.
Mergers and acquisitions can be viewed as part of the labor market for top manage-
ment. Jensen and Ruback have used the phrase market for corporate control, in which al-
ternative management teams compete for the rights to manage corporate activities.
Tax Gains
Tax gains may be a powerful incentive for some acquisitions. The possible tax gains that
can come from an acquisition are the following:
1. The use of tax losses from net operating losses.
2. The use of unused debt capacity.
3. The use of surplus funds.
Net Operating Losses
Sometimes firms have tax losses they cannot take advantage of.
These tax losses are referred to as NOL (an acronym for net operating losses). Consider the
situation of firm A and firm B.
Table 30.4 shows the pretax income, taxes, and after-tax income for firms A and B.
Firm A will earn $200 under state 1 but will lose money under state 2. The firm will pay
taxes under state 1 but is not entitled to a tax rebate under state 2. Conversely, firm B will
pay taxes of $68 under state 2. Thus, if firms A and B are separate, the IRS will obtain $68
in taxes, regardless of which state occurs. However, if A and B merge, the combined firm
will pay $34 in taxes under both state 1 and state 2.
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
827
10J. J. McConnell and C. J. Muscarella, “Corporate Capital Expenditure Decisions and the Market Value of the
firm,” Journal of Financial Economics 14 (1985).
11More than 26 percent of the total valuation of all takeover transactions involved a selling firm in the oil and
gas industry in 1981–1984 [W. T. Grimm, Mergerstat Review (1985), p. 41].
I TABLE 30.4 Tax Effect of Merger of Firms A and B
Before Merger
After Merger
Firm A
Firm B
Firm AB
If
If
If
If
If
If
State 1
State 2
State 1
State 2
State 1
State 2
Taxable income
$200
$100
$100
$200
$100
$100
Taxes
68
0
0
68
34
34
____
______
______
____
____
____
Net income
$132
$100
$100
$132
$ 66
$ 66
Neither firm will be able to deduct its losses prior to the merger. The merger allows the losses from A to offset
the taxable profits from B—and vice versa.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
833
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
It is obvious that if firms A and B merge, they will pay lower taxes than if they remain
separate. Without merger, they do not take advantage of potential tax losses. 
The message of the preceding example is that firms need taxable profits to take ad-
vantage of potential tax losses. Mergers can sometimes accomplish this. However, there are
two qualifications to the previous example:
1. The federal tax laws permit firms that experience alternating periods of profits and losses
to equalize their taxes by carryback and carryforward provisions. A firm that has been
profitable but has a loss in the current year can get refunds of income taxes paid in three
previous years and can carry the loss forward for 15 years. Thus, a merger to exploit un-
used tax shields must offer tax savings over and above what can be accomplished by
firms via carryovers.12
2. The IRS may disallow an acquisition if the principal purpose of the acquisition is to
avoid federal tax. This is one of the Catch 22s of the Internal Revenue Code.
Unused Debt Capacity
We argued earlier in the text that the optimal debt-equity ratio is
the one where the marginal tax benefit from additional debt is equal to the marginal increase
in the financial distress costs from additional debt. Because some diversification occurs
when firms merge, the cost of financial distress is likely to be less for the combined firm
than is the sum of these present values for the two separate firms. Thus, the acquiring firm
might be able to increase its debt-equity ratio after a merger, creating additional tax bene-
fits—and additional value.13,14
Surplus Funds
Another quirk in the tax laws involves surplus funds. Consider a firm that
has free cash flow. That is, it has cash flow available after payment of all taxes and after all pos-
itive net present value projects have been provided for. In this situation, aside from purchasing
fixed-income securities, the firm has several ways to spend the free cash flow, including
1. Pay dividends.
2. Buy back its own shares.
3. Acquire shares in another firm.
We have already seen in our previous discussion of dividend policy that an extra divi-
dend will increase the income tax paid by some investors. Investors pay lower taxes in a
share repurchase. However, this is not a legal option if the sole purpose is to avoid taxes that
would otherwise have been paid by shareholders.
The firm can buy the shares of another firm. This accomplishes two objectives. First,
the firm’s shareholders avoid taxes from dividends that would have been paid. Second, the
firm pays little corporate tax on dividends received from the shares of the firm it has pur-
chased, because 70 percent of the dividend income received from the acquired firm is ex-
cluded from the corporate income tax. However, under Section 532 of the tax code the IRS
might disallow the tax benefits from a continual strategy of this type. 
828
Part VIII
Special Topics
12Under the 1986 Tax Reform Act a corporation’s ability to carry forward net operating losses (and other tax
credits) is limited when more than 50 percent of the stock changes hands over a three-year period.
13Unused debt capacity is cited as a benefit in many mergers. An example was the proposed merger of Hospital
Corporation of America and American Hospital Supply Corporation in 1985. Insiders were quoted as saying
that the combined companies could borrow as much as an additional $1 billion, 10 times the usual borrowing
capacity of Hospital Corporation alone (The Wall Street Journal, April 1, 1985). (The merger never took place.)
14Michael C. Jensen [“Agency Costs of Free Cash Flow, Corporate Finance and Takeovers,” American Economic
Review (May 1986)] offers another reason why debt is frequently used in mergers and acquisitions. He argues
that using more debt provides incentives for the new management to create efficiencies so that debt can be repaid.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
834
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Instead, the firm might make acquisitions with its excess funds. In a merger no taxes
at all are paid on dividends remitted from the acquired firm, and the IRS would not ques-
tion mergers of this type. 
The Cost of Capital
The cost of capital can often be reduced when two firms merge because the costs of issu-
ing securities are subject to economies of scale. As we observed in earlier chapters, the costs
of issuing both debt and equity are much lower for larger issues than for smaller issues.
30.6 CALCULATING THE VALUE OF THE FIRM
AFTER AN ACQUISITION
Now that we have listed the possible sources of synergy from a merger, let us see how one
would value these sources. Consider two firms. Gamble, Inc., manufactures and markets
soaps and cosmetics. The firm has a reputation for its ability to attract, develop, and keep
talented people. The firm has successfully introduced several major products in the past two
years. It would like to enter the over-the-counter drug market to round out its product line.
Shapiro, Inc., is a well-known maker of cold remedies. Al Shapiro, the great-grandson of
the founder of Shapiro, Inc., became chairman of the firm last year. Unfortunately, Al
knows nothing about cold remedies, and as a consequence, Shapiro, Inc., has had lacklus-
ter financial performance. For the most recent year, pretax cash flow fell by 15 percent. The
firm’s stock price is at an all-time low.
The financial management of Gamble finds Shapiro an attractive acquisition candidate.
It believes that the cash flows from the combined firms would be far greater than what each
firm would have alone. The cash flows and present values from the acquisition are shown
in Table 30.5. The increased cash flows (CFt) would come from three benefits:
1. Tax Gains. If Gamble acquires Shapiro, Gamble will be able to use some tax-loss car-
ryforwards to reduce its tax liability. The additional cash flows from tax gains should be
discounted at the cost of debt capital because they can be determined with very little un-
certainty. The financial management of Gamble estimates that the acquisition will re-
duce taxes by $1 million per year in perpetuity. The relevant discount rate is 5 percent,
and the present value of the tax reduction is $20 million.
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
829
I TABLE 30.5 Acquisition of Shapiro, Inc., by Gamble, Inc.
Net Cash Flow
per Year
Discount
(perpetual)
Rate
Value
Gamble, Inc.
$10.0 million
0.10
$100 million
Shapiro, Inc.
4.5 million
0.15
30 million*
Benefits from acquisition:
5.5 million
0.122
45 million
Strategic fit
3.0 million
0.20
15 million
Tax shelters
1.0 million
0.05
20 million
Operating efficiencies
1.5 million
0.15
10 million
Gamble-Shapiro
20.0 million
0.114
175 million
*The market value of Shapiro’s outstanding common stock is $30 million; 1 million shares are outstanding.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
835
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
2. Operating Efficiencies. The financial management of Gamble has determined that Gam-
ble can take advantage of some of the unused production capacity of Shapiro. At times
Gamble has been operating at full capacity with a large backlog of orders. Shapiro’s man-
ufacturing facilities, with a little reconfiguration, can be used to produce Gamble’s soaps.
Thus, more soaps and cold remedies can be produced without adding to the combined
firm’s capacity and cost. These operating efficiencies will increase after-tax cash flows
by $1.5 million per year. Using Shapiro’s discount rate and assuming perpetual gains,
the PV of the unused capacity is determined to be $10 million. 
3. Strategic Fit. The financial management of Gamble has determined that the acquisition
of Shapiro will give Gamble a strategic advantage. The management of Gamble believes
that the addition of the Shapiro Bac-Rub ointment for sore backs to its existing product
mix will give it a better chance to launch successful new skin care cosmetics if these
markets develop in the future. Management of Gamble estimates that there is a 50-percent
probability that $6 million in after-tax cash flow can be generated with the new skin care
products. These opportunities are contingent on factors that cannot be easily quantified.
Because of the lack of precision here, the managers decided to use a high discount rate.
Gamble chooses a 20-percent rate, and it estimates that the present value of the strate-
gic factors is $15 million (0.50  $6 million/0.20).
Avoiding Mistakes
The Gamble-Shapiro illustration is very simple and straightforward. It is deceptive because
the incremental cash flows have already been determined. In practice an analyst must esti-
mate these cash flows and determine the proper discount rate. Valuing the benefits of a po-
tential acquisition is harder than valuing benefits for standard capital-budgeting projects.
Many mistakes can be made. The following are some of the general rules:
1. Do Not Ignore Market Values. In many cases it is very difficult to estimate values using
discounted cash flows. Because of this, an expert at valuation should know the market
prices of comparable opportunities. In an efficient market, prices should reflect value.
Because the market value of Shapiro is $30 million, we use this to estimate Shapiro’s
existing value.
2. Estimate Only Incremental Cash Flows. Only incremental cash flows from an acquisi-
tion will add value to the acquiring firm. Thus, it is important to estimate the cash flows
that are incremental to the acquisition.
3. Use the Correct Discount Rate. The discount rate should be the required rate of return
for the incremental cash flows associated with the acquisition.15 It should reflect the risk
associated with the use of funds, not their source. It would be a mistake for Gamble to
use its own cost of capital to value the cash flows from Shapiro.
4. If Gamble and Shapiro Combine, There Will Be Transactions Costs. These will include
fees to investment bankers, legal fees, and disclosure requirements. 
30.7 A COST TO STOCKHOLDERS FROM REDUCTION IN RISK
The previous section discussed gains to the firm from a merger. In a firm with debt, these
gains are likely to be shared by both bondholders and stockholders. We now consider a ben-
efit to the bondholders from a merger, which occurs at the expense of the stockholders.
830
Part VIII
Special Topics
15Recall that the required rate of return is sometimes referred to as the cost of capital, or the opportunity cost
of capital.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
836
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
When two firms merge, the variability of their combined values is usually less than
would be true if the firms remained separate entities. A reduction of the variability of firm
values can occur if the values of the two firms are less than perfectly correlated. The re-
duction in variability can reduce the cost of borrowing and make the creditors better off than
before. This will occur if the probability of financial distress is reduced by the merger. 
Unfortunately, the shareholders are likely to be worse off. The gains to creditors are at
the expense of the shareholders if the total value of the firm does not change. The relation-
ship among the value of the merged firm, debt capacity, and risk is very complicated. We
now consider two examples.
The Base Case
Consider a base case where two all-equity firms merge. Table 30.6 gives the net present val-
ues of firm A and firm B in three possible states of the economy—prosperity, average, and
depression. The market value of firm A is $60, and the market value of firm B is $40. The
market value of each firm is the weighted average of the values in each of the three states.
For example, the value of firm A is
$60  $80  0.5  $50  0.3  $25  0.2
The values in each of the three states for firm A are $80, $50, and $25, respectively. The
probabilities of each of the three states occurring are 0.5, 0.3, and 0.2, respectively.
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
831
IN THEIR OWN WORDS
Michael C. Jensen on Mergers and Acquisitions
E
conomic analysis and evidence indicate that
takeovers, LBOs, and corporate restructurings are
playing an important role in helping the economy adjust
to major competitive changes in the last two decades.
The competition among alternative management teams
and organizational structures for control of corporate
assets has enabled vast economic resources to move
more quickly to their highest-valued use. In the process,
substantial benefits for the economy as a whole as well
as for shareholders have been created. Overall gains to
selling-firm shareholders from mergers, acquisitions,
leveraged buyouts, and other corporate restructurings in
the 12-year period 1977–1988 total over $500 billion in
1988 dollars. I estimate gains to buying-firm share-
holders to be at least $50 billion for the same period.
These gains equal 53 percent of the total cash dividends
(valued in 1988 dollars) paid to investors by the entire
corporate sector in the same period.
Mergers and acquisitions are a response to new tech-
nologies or market conditions which require a strategic
change in a company’s direction or use of resources.
Compared to current management, a new owner is often
better able to accomplish major change in the existing
organizational structure. Alternatively, leveraged buyouts
bring about organizational change by creating entrepre-
neurial incentives for management and by eliminating
the centralized bureaucratic obstacles to maneuverability
that are inherent in large public corporations.
When managers have a substantial ownership interest
in the organization, the conflicts of interest between
shareholders and managers over the payout of the
company’s free cash flow are reduced. Management’s
incentives are focused on maximizing the value of the
enterprise, rather than building empires—often through
poorly conceived diversification acquisitions—without
regard to shareholder value. Finally, the required
repayment of debt replaces management’s discretion in
paying dividends and the tendency to overretain cash.
Substantial increases in efficiency are thereby created.
Michael C. Jensen is Edsel Bryant Ford Professor of Business
Administration at Harvard University. An outstanding scholar
and researcher, he is famous for his path-breaking analysis of
the modern corporation and its relations with its stockholders.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
837
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
When firm A merges with firm B, the combined firm AB will have a market value of
$100. There is no synergy from this merger, and consequently the value of firm AB is the
sum of the values of firm A and firm B. Stockholders of B receive stock with a value of $40,
and therefore stockholders of A have a value of $100  $40  $60. Thus, stockholders of
A and B are indifferent to the proposed merger.
One Firm Has Debt
Alternatively, imagine firm A has some debt and some equity outstanding before the
merger.16 Firm B is an all-equity firm. Firm A will default on its debt in state 3 because the
net present value of firm A in this state is $25, and the value of the debt claim is $40. As a
consequence, the full value of the debt claim cannot be paid by firm A. The creditors take
this into account, and the value of the debt is $37 ($40  0.5  $40  0.3  $25  0.2).
Though default occurs without a merger, no default occurs with a merger. To see this,
notice that, when the two firms are separate, firm B does not guarantee firm A’s debt. That
is, if firm A defaults on its debt, firm B does not help the bondholders of firm A. However,
after the merger the bondholders can draw on the cash flows from both A and B. When one
of the divisions of the combined firm fails, creditors can be paid from the profits of the other
division. This mutual guarantee, which is called the coinsurance effect, makes the debt less
risky and more valuable than before.
832
Part VIII
Special Topics
I TABLE 30.6 Stock-Swap Mergers
NPV
State 1
State 2
State 3
Market Value
Base case: two all-equity firms before merger
Firm A
$ 80
$50
$25
$ 60
Firm B
$ 50
$40
$15
$ 40
Probability
0.5
0.3
0.2
After merger*
Firm AB
$130
$90
$40
$100
Firm A, equity and risky debt before merger
Firm B, all-equity before merger
Firm A
$ 80
$50
$25
$ 60
Debt
$ 40
$40
$25
$ 37
Equity
$ 40
$10
$ 0
$ 23
Firm B
$ 50
$40
$15
$ 40
After merger†
Firm AB
$130
$90
$40
$100
Debt
$ 40
$40
$40
$ 40
Equity
$ 90
$50
$ 0
$ 60
Value of debt rises after merger. Value of original stock in acquiring firm falls correspondingly.
*Stockholders in B receive stock value of $40. Therefore, stockholders of A have a value of $100  $40  $60
and are indifferent to merger.
†Because firm B’s stockholders receive stock in firm A worth $40, original stockholders in firm A have stock
worth $20 ($60  $40). Gains and losses from merger are
$20  $23  $3: Therefore, stockholders of A lose $3.
$40  $37  $3: Therefore, bondholders of A gain $3.
16This example was provided by David Babbel.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
838
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The bonds are worth $40 after the merger. Thus, the bondholders of AB gain $3
($40  $37) from the merger.
The stockholders of firm A lose $3 ($20  $23) from the merger. That is, firm A’s
stock is worth $23 prior to the merger. The stock is worth $60 after the merger. However,
stockholders in firm B receive $40 of stock in firm A. Hence, those individuals who were
stockholders in firm A prior to the merger have stock worth only $20 ($60  $40) after
the merger.
There is no net benefit to the firm as a whole. The bondholders gain the coinsurance
effect, and the stockholders lose the coinsurance effect. Some general conclusions emerge
from the preceding analysis. 
1. Bondholders in the aggregate will usually be helped by mergers and acquisitions. The
size of the gain to bondholders depends on the reduction of bankruptcy states after the
combination. That is, the less risky the combined firm is, the greater are the gains to
bondholders.
2. Stockholders of the acquiring firm will be hurt by the amount that bondholders gain. 
3. The conclusions apply to mergers and acquisitions where no synergy is present. In the
case of synergistic combinations, much depends on the size of the synergy. 
How Can Shareholders Reduce Their Losses 
from the Coinsurance Effect?
The coinsurance effect allows some mergers to increase bondholder values by reducing
shareholder values. However, there are at least two ways that shareholders can reduce or
eliminate the coinsurance effect. First, the shareholders in firm A could retire its debt be-
fore the merger announcement date and reissue an equal amount of debt after the merger.
Because debt is retired at the low, pre-merger price, this type of refinancing transaction can
neutralize the coinsurance effect to the bondholders. 
Also, note that the debt capacity of the combined firm is likely to increase because the
acquisition reduces the probability of financial distress. Thus, the shareholders’ second al-
ternative is simply to issue more debt after the merger. An increase in debt following the
merger will have two effects, even without the prior action of debt retirement. The interest
deduction from new corporate debt raises firm value. In addition, an increase in debt after
the merger raises the probability of financial distress, thereby reducing or eliminating the
bondholders’ gain from the coinsurance effect. 
30.8 TWO “BAD” REASONS FOR MERGERS
Earnings Growth
An acquisition can create the appearance of earnings growth, which may fool investors
into thinking that the firm is worth more than it really is. Suppose Global Resources,
Ltd., acquires Regional Enterprises. The financial positions of Global and Regional be-
fore the acquisition are shown in Table 30.7. Regional has had very poor earnings growth
and sells at a price-earnings ratio much lower than that of Global. The merger creates no
additional value. If the market is smart, it will realize that the combined firm is worth
the sum of the values of the separate firms. In this case, the market value of the com-
bined firm will be $3,500, which is equal to the sum of the values of the separate firms
before the merger.
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
833

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
839
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
At these values, Global will acquire Regional by exchanging 40 of its shares for 100
Regional shares,17 so that Global will have 140 shares outstanding after the merger.
Because the stock price of Global after the merger is the same as before the merger, the
price-earnings ratio must fall. This is true because the market is smart and recognizes that
the total market has not been altered by the merger. This scenario is represented by the third
column of Table 30.7.
Let us now consider the possibility that the market is fooled. One can see from Table
30.7 that the acquisition enables Global to increase its earnings per share from $1 to $1.43.
If the market is fooled, it might mistake the 43-percent increase in earnings per share for
true growth. In this case, the price-earnings ratio of Global may not fall after the merger.
Suppose the price-earnings ratio of Global remains equal to 25. The total value of the com-
bined firm will increase to $5,000 (25  $200), and the stock price per share of Global will
increase to $35.71 ($5,000/140). This is reflected in the last column of Table 30.7.
This is earnings-growth magic. Like all good magic, it is an illusion and the sharehold-
ers of Global and Regional will receive something for nothing. This may work for a while,
but in the long run the efficient market will work its wonders and the value will decline.
Diversification
Diversification often is mentioned as a benefit of one firm acquiring another. Earlier in this
chapter, we noted that U.S. Steel included diversification as a benefit in its acquisition of
Marathon Oil. In 1982 U.S. Steel was a cash-rich company (over 20 percent of its assets
were in the form of cash and marketable securities). It is not uncommon to see firms with
surplus cash articulating a need for diversification. 
However, we argue that diversification, by itself, cannot produce increases in value. To
see this, recall that a business’s variability of return can be separated into two parts: (1) what
is specific to the business and called unsystematic, and (2) what is systematic because it is
common to all businesses.
834
Part VIII
Special Topics
I TABLE 30.7 Financial Positions of Global Resources, Ltd.,
and Regional Enterprises
Global Resources
after Merger
Global
Regional
Resources
Enterprises
The Market
The Market
before Merger
before Merger
Is “Smart”
Is “Fooled”
Earnings per share
$
1.00
$
1.00
$
1.43
$
1.43
Price per share
$
25.00
$
10.00
$
25.00
$
35.71
Price-earnings ratio
25
10
17.5
25
Number of shares
100
100
140
140
Total earnings
$ 100
$ 100
$ 200
$ 200
Total value
$2,500
$1,000
$3,500
$5,000
Exchange ratio: 1 share in Global for 2.5 shares in Regional.
17This ratio implies a fair exchange because a share of Regional is selling for 40 percent ($10/$25) of the price
of a share of Global.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
840
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Systematic variability cannot be eliminated by diversification, so mergers will not
eliminate this risk at all. By contrast, unsystematic risk can be diversified away through
mergers. However, the investor does not need widely diversified companies such as General
Electric to eliminate unsystematic risk. Shareholders can diversify more easily than corpo-
rations by simply purchasing common stock in different corporations. For example, the
shareholders of U.S. Steel could have purchased shares in Marathon if they believed there
would be diversification gains in doing so. Thus, diversification through conglomerate
merger may not benefit shareholders.18
Diversification can produce gains to the acquiring firm only if two things are true:
1. Diversification decreases the unsystematic variability at lower costs than by investors
via adjustments to personal portfolios. This seems very unlikely.
2. Diversification reduces risk and thereby increases debt capacity. This possibility was
mentioned earlier in the chapter. 
• Why can a merger create the appearance of earnings growth?
30.9 THE NPV OF A MERGER
Firms typically use NPV analysis when making acquisitions.19 The analysis is relatively
straightforward when the consideration is cash. The analysis becomes more complex when
the consideration is stock.
Cash
Suppose firm A and firm B have values as separate entities of $500 and $100, respectively.
They are both all-equity firms. If firm A acquires firm B, the merged firm AB will have a
combined value of $700 due to synergies of $100. The board of firm B has indicated that it
will sell firm B if it is offered $150 in cash.
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
835
18Recent evidence suggests that diversification can actually hurt shareholders. Randall Mork, Andrei Shleifer,
and Robert W. Vishney [“Do Managerial Objectives Drive Bad Acquisitions,” Journal of Finance 45 (1990),
pp. 31–48] show that shareholders did poorly in firms that diversified by acquisition in the 1980s. There is also
evidence that diversified firms trade at a discount relative to a portfolio of single-segment firms, most recently
from Karl Lins and Henri Servaes, “The International Evidence on the Value of Corporate Diversification,”
Journal of Finance 54 (1999). On the other hand, Matsusaka and Hubbard and Palia find some benefits to
diversification in internal capital allocation. See John Matsusaka, “Takeover Motives During the Conglomerate
Merge Wave,” Rand Journal of Economics 24 (1993). 
See also R. Glenn Hubbard and Darius Palia, “A Reexamination of the Conglomerate Merger Wave in the
1960s: An Internal Capital Markets View,” Journal of Finance (June 1999).
One interesting recent study reports a positive relationship between focus and value for diversified firms.
See P. G. Berger and E. Ofek, “Diversification’s Effect on Firm Value,” Journal of Financial Economics, 37
(1995). Also see P. G. Berger and E. Ofek, “Causes and Effects of Corporate Refocusing Program,” Review of
Financial Studies 12 (1999).
19The NPV framework for evaluating mergers can be found in S. C. Myers, “A Framework for Evaluating
Mergers,” in Modern Developments in Financial Management, ed. by S. C. Myers (New York: Praeger, 1976).
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
841
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Should firm A acquire firm B? Assuming that firm A finances the acquisition out of its
own retained earnings, its value after the acquisition is20
Value of firm A
after the acquisition  Value of combined firm  Cash paid

$700

$150

$550
Because firm A was worth $500 prior to the acquisition, the NPV to firm A’s stockholders is
$50  $550  $500
(30.1)
Assuming that there are 25 shares in firm A, each share of the firm is worth $20 ($500/25)
prior to the merger and $22 ($550/25) after the merger. These calculations are displayed in
the first and third columns of Table 30.8. Looking at the rise in stock price, we conclude
that firm A should make the acquisition.
We spoke earlier of both the synergy and the premium of a merger. We can also value
the NPV of a merger to the acquirer as
NPV of a merger to acquirer  Synergy  Premium
Because the value of the combined firm is $700 and the premerger values of A and B
were $500 and $100, respectively, the synergy is $100 [$700  ($500  $100)]. The pre-
mium is $50 ($150  $100). Thus, the NPV of the merger to the acquirer is
NPV of merger to firm A  $100  $50  $50
One caveat is in order. This textbook has consistently argued that the market value of a firm
is the best estimate of its true value. However, we must adjust our analysis when discussing
mergers. If the true price of firm A without the merger is $500, the market value of firm A
836
Part VIII
Special Topics
20The analysis will be essentially the same if new stock is issued. However, the analysis will differ if new debt is
issued to fund the acquisition because of the tax shield to debt. An adjusted present value (APV) approach
would be necessary here.
I TABLE 30.8 Cost of Acquisition: Cash versus Common Stock
Before
Acquisition
After Acquisition: Firm A
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
Common Stock†
Common Stock†
Exchange Ratio
Exchange Ratio
Firm A
Firm B
Cash*
(0.75:1)
(0.6819:1)
Market value (VA, VB)
$500
$100
$550
$700
$700
Number of shares
25
10
25
32.5
31.819
Price per share
$ 20
$ 10
$ 22
$ 21.54
$ 22
*Value of firm A after acquisition: cash
VA  VAB  Cash
$550  $700  $150
†Value of firm A after acquisition: common stock
VA  VAB
$700  $700

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
842
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
may actually be above $500 when merger negotiations take place. This occurs because the
market price reflects the possibility that the merger will occur. For example, if the proba-
bility is 60 percent that the merger will take place, the market price of firm A will be
$530 
$550

0.60

$500

0.40
The managers would underestimate the NPV from merger in equation (30.1) if the market
price of firm A is used. Thus, managers are faced with the difficult task of valuing their own
firm without the acquisition.
Common Stock
Of course, firm A could purchase firm B with common stock instead of cash. Unfortunately,
the analysis is not as straightforward here. In order to handle this scenario, we need to know
how many shares are outstanding in firm B. We assume that there are 10 shares outstand-
ing, as indicated in column 2 of Table 30.8. 
Suppose firm A exchanges 7.5 of its shares for the entire 10 shares of firm B. We call
this an exchange ratio of 0.75:1. The value of each share of firm A’s stock before the ac-
quisition is $20. Because 7.5  $20  $150, this exchange appears to be the equivalent of
purchasing firm B in cash for $150. 
This is incorrect: The true cost is greater than $150. To see this, note that firm A has
32.5 (25  7.5) shares outstanding after the merger. Firm B shareholders own 23 percent
(7.5/32.5) of the combined firm. Their holdings are valued at $161 (23%  $700). Because
these stockholders receive stock in firm A worth $161, the cost of the merger to firm A’s
stockholders must be $161, not $150.
This result is shown in column 4 of Table 30.8. The value of each share of firm A’s stock
after a stock-for-stock transaction is only $21.54 ($700/32.5). We found out earlier that the
value of each share is $22 after a cash-for-stock transaction. The difference is that the cost
of the stock-for-stock transaction to firm A is higher. 
This nonintuitive result occurs because the exchange ratio of 7.5 shares of firm A for
10 shares of firm B was based on the premerger prices of the two firms. However, since
the stock of firm A rises after the merger, firm B stockholders receive more than $150 in
firm A stock.
What should the exchange ratio be so that firm B stockholders receive only $150 of
firm A’s stock? We begin by defining , the proportion of the shares in the combined firm
that firm B’s stockholders own. Because the combined firm’s value is $700, the value of
firm B stockholders after the merger is
Value of Firm B Stockholders after Merger:
  $700
Setting   $700  $150, we find that   21.43%. In other words, firm B’s stockholders
will receive stock worth $150 if they receive 21.43 percent of the firm after merger.
Now we determine the number of shares issued to firm B’s shareholders. The propor-
tion, , that firm B’s shareholders have in the combined firm can be expressed as
 
New shares issued
Old shares  New shares issued 
New shares issued
25  New shares issued
Market value
of firm A
with merger

Probability
of
merger

Market value 
of firm A
without merger

Probability
of no
merger
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
837

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
843
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Plugging our value of  into the equation yields
0.2143 
Solving for the unknown, we have
New shares  6.819 shares
Total shares outstanding after the merger are 31.819 (25  6.819). Because 6.819 shares of
firm A are exchanged for 10 shares of firm B, the exchange ratio is 0.6819:1.
Results at the exchange ratio of 0.6819:1 are displayed in column 5 of Table 30.8. Each
share of common stock is worth $22, exactly what it is worth in the stock-for-cash transac-
tion. Thus, given that the board of firm B will sell its firm for $150, this is the fair exchange
ratio, not the ratio of 0.75:1 mentioned earlier.
Cash versus Common Stock
Whether to finance an acquisition by cash or by shares of stock is an important decision.
The choice depends on several factors, as follows:
1. Overvaluation. If in the opinion of management the acquiring firm’s stock is overval-
ued, using shares of stock can be less costly than using cash.
2. Taxes. Acquisition by cash usually results in a taxable transaction. Acquisition by ex-
changing stock is tax free.
3. Sharing Gains. If cash is used to finance an acquisition, the selling firm’s shareholders
receive a fixed price. In the event of a hugely successful merger, they will not participate
in any additional gains. Of course, if the acquisition is not a success, the losses will not
be shared and shareholders of the acquiring firm will be worse off than if stock were used. 
• In an efficient market with no tax effects, should an acquiring firm use cash or stock?
30.10 DEFENSIVE TACTICS
Target-firm managers frequently resist takeover attempts. Resistance usually starts with
press releases and mailings to shareholders that present management’s viewpoint. It can
eventually lead to legal action and solicitation of competing bids. Managerial action to de-
feat a takeover attempt may make target shareholders better off if it elicits a higher offer
premium from the bidding firm or another firm. Of course, management resistance may
simply reflect pursuit of self-interest at the expense of shareholders. That is, the target man-
agers may resist a takeover in order to preserve their jobs. It is also possible that the target-
firm management will take corrective action to increase stock price in order to reduce the
takeover benefits. In this section we describe various defensive tactics that have been used
by target-firm managements to resist unfriendly takeover attempts.
Divestitures
Target-firm managers considering the prospect of a takeover may decide a narrowing of
strategic focus can increase stock price, thereby making a takeover too expensive. If so, they
will consider the pros and cons of three kinds of divestitures: a sale of assets, a spin-off, and
the issuance of a tracking stock. The basic idea of all three types of divestitures is to reduce
New shares issued
25  New shares issued
838
Part VIII
Special Topics
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
844
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
the potential diversification discount associated with commingled operations and to increase
corporate focus. The sale of a business segment is usually for cash. With a spin-off, the par-
ent company distributes shares of a subsidiary to its shareholders. As a consequence, the
shareholders end up with a stake in the parent as well as the subsidiary. Typically, the stock
in the subsidiary is distributed pro rata to the parent-company shareholders. No actual asset
sale is involved, and the subsidiary becomes a completely separate company (with its own
board of directors, etc.). A variant of the spin-off is called an equity curveout, where the stock
of the subsidiary is sold to the public in an IPO. Sometimes a spin-off and an equity curve-
out are combined. A tracking stock is a class of common stock whose value is connected to
the performance of a particular segment (division or subsidiary) of the parent company’s
business. The intent of a tracking stock is quite similar to an asset sale or spin-off, which is
to give shareholders a pure play on a particular part of the firm. The issue of tracking stock
shares can be some form of combination between a pro rata distribution and an IPO. The first
tracker was when General Motors issued stock that tracked Electronic Data Systems (EDS).
Recently General Motors, AT&T, and Sprint PCS have issued trackers. Tracking stock does
not involve a separate, formal entity, as in the case of a spin-off or equity curveout.21
The Corporate Charter
The corporate charter refers to the articles of incorporation and corporate bylaws that gov-
ern the firm. The corporate charter establishes the conditions that allow a takeover. Firms fre-
quently amend corporate charters to make acquisitions more difficult. For example, usually
two-thirds of the shareholders of record must approve a merger. Firms can make it more dif-
ficult to be acquired by requiring 80-percent approval by the shareholders. This is called a
supermajority amendment. Another device is to stagger the election of the board members,
which increases the difficulty of electing a new board of directors quickly. DeAngelo and
Rice, and Linn and McConnell examine the adoption of antitakeover amendments related to
the corporate charter on stock prices of the adopting firms and find no adverse effect.22
Repurchase Standstill Agreements
Managers may arrange a targeted repurchase to forestall a takeover attempt. In a targeted
repurchase, a firm buys back its own stock from a potential bidder, usually at a substantial
premium. These premiums can be thought of as payments to potential bidders to delay or
stop unfriendly takeover attempts. Critics of such payments label them greenmail.
In addition, managers of target firms may simultaneously negotiate standstill agree-
ments. Standstill agreements are contracts where the bidding firm agrees to limit its holdings
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
839
21There have been several studies of tracking stocks that seem to suggest returns of about three percent upon the
announcement of a tracking stock issue. For example: M. T. Billet and D. C. Mauer, “Diversification and the
Value of Internal Capital Market, The Case of Tracking Stock,” Journal of Banking and Finance (Forthcoming);
D. Sousa J. and J. Jacob, “Why Firms Issue Tracking Stock,” Journal of Financial Economics, (Forthcoming);
D. E. Logue, J. K. Seward, and J. P. Walsh, “Rearranging Residual Claim: A Case for Targeted Stock,”
Financial Management 25, (1996).
On the other hand, Mathew T. Billet and Anand M. Vijh, “Long-Term Returns from Tracking Stocks,”
University of Iowa, unpublished paper, report negative long-term returns from tracking stocks.
Several recent articles report stock-price gains from asset sales spin-offs and equity curveouts that increase
a firm’s focus. See, for example: J. Desai and P. Jain, “Firm Performance and Focus: Long Run Stock Market
Performance Following Spin-offs,” Journal of Financial Economics 54 (1999); K. John and E. Ofek, “Asset
Sales and Increase in Focus,” Journal of Financial Economics 37 (1999); and A. Vijh, “Long Term Returns from
Equity Curveouts,” Journal of Financial Economics 51 (1999).
22H. DeAngelo and E. M. Rice, “Antitakeover Charter Amendments and Stockholder Wealth,” Journal of
Financial Economics 11 (April 1983); and S. G. Linn and J. J. McConnell, “An Empirical Investigation of the
Impact of Antitakeover Amendments on Common Stock Prices,” Journal of Financial Economics 11 (April 1983).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
845
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
of another firm. These agreements usually lead to cessation of takeover attempts, and an-
nouncement of such agreements has had a negative effect on stock prices. 
EXAMPLE
On April 2, 1986, Ashland Oil, Inc., the nation’s largest independent oil refiner,
had 28 million shares outstanding. The company’s stock price closed the day be-
fore at $493⁄4 per share on the New York Stock Exchange. On April 2, Ashland’s
board of directors made two decisions:
1. The board approved management’s agreement with the Belzberg family of
Canada to buy, for $51 a share, the Belzbergs’2.6 million shares in Ashland. This
was part of a standstill agreement that ended a takeover skirmish in which the
Belzberg family offered $60 per share for all of the common stock of Ashland. 
2. The board authorized the company to repurchase 7.5 million shares (27 percent
of the outstanding shares) of its stock. The board simultaneously approved a
proposal to establish an employee stock-ownership plan to be funded with 5.3
million shares of Ashland stock.
The result of these two actions was to make Ashland invulnerable to unfriendly
takeover attempts. In effect, the company was selling about 20 percent of its stock to
the employee stock-ownership plan. Earlier Ashland had put in place a provision that
said 80 percent of the stockholders have to approve a takeover. Ashland’s stock price
fell by $0.25 over the next two days. Because this move can probably be explained by
random error, there is no evidence that Ashland’s actions reduced shareholder value.
Exclusionary Self-Tenders
An exclusionary self-tender is the opposite of a targeted repurchase. Here, the firm makes
a tender offer for a given amount of its own stock while excluding targeted stockholders.
In one of the most celebrated cases in financial history, Unocal, a large integrated oil firm,
made a tender offer for 29 percent of its shares while excluding its largest shareholder, Mesa
Partners II (led by T. Boone Pickens). Unocal’s self-tender was for $72 per share, which was
$16 over the prevailing market price. It was designed to defeat Mesa’s attempted takeover of
Unocal by transferring wealth, in effect, from Mesa to Unocal’s other stockholders. 
Going Private and Leveraged Buyouts
Going private refers to what happens when the publicly owned stock in a firm is purchased
by a private group, usually composed of existing management. As a consequence, the firm’s
stock is taken off the market (if it is an exchange-traded stock, it is delisted) and is no longer
traded. Thus, in going-private transactions, shareholders of publicly held firms are forced
to accept cash for their shares.
Going-private transactions are frequently leveraged buyouts (LBOs). In a leveraged
buyout, the cash-offer price is financed with large amounts of debt. LBOs have recently
become quite popular because the arrangement calls for little equity capital. This equity
capital is generally supplied by a small group of investors, some of whom are likely to be
managers of the firm being purchased. 
The selling stockholders are invariably paid a premium above market price in an LBO,
just as they are in a merger.23 As with a merger, the acquirer profits only if the synergy 
840
Part VIII
Special Topics
23H. DeAngelo, L. DeAngelo, and E. M. Rice, “Going Private: Minority Freezeouts and Shareholder Wealth,”
Journal of Law and Economics 27 (1984). They show that the premiums paid to existing shareholders in LBOs
and other going-private transactions are about the same as in interfirm acquisitions.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
846
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
created is greater than the premium. Synergy is quite plausible in a merger of two firms, and
we delineated a number of types of synergy earlier in the chapter. However, it is much more
difficult to explain synergy in an LBO, because only one firm is involved.
There are generally two reasons given for the ability of an LBO to create value. First,
the extra debt provides a tax deduction, which, as earlier chapters suggested, leads to an in-
crease in firm value. Most LBOs are on firms with stable earnings and with low to moder-
ate debt. The LBO may simply increase the firm’s debt to its optimum level. In fact,
Congress has recently taken a skeptical look at LBOs, partly because the increase in debt
reduces the U.S. Treasury’s tax revenues.
Second, the LBO usually turns the previous managers into owners, thereby increasing
their incentive to work hard. The increase in debt is a further incentive because the man-
agers must earn more than the debt service to obtain any profit for themselves.
Though it is easy to value the additional tax shields from an LBO, it is quite difficult
to value the gains from increased efficiency. Nevertheless, this increased efficiency is con-
sidered to be at least as important as the tax shield in explaining the LBO phenomenon.24
Of course, one cannot be entirely sure that LBOs create value at all, because the stock
price cannot be observed once the company has been taken private. Though one fre-
quently hears of LBO investors achieving great wealth, this is only casual empirical evi-
dence. There may be an equal number of LBO investors who are left with little value af-
ter purchasing a company at a premium. The full story on LBOs has certainly not been
told at this point. 
Other Devices and Jargon of Corporate Takeovers
As corporate takeovers have become more common, a new lexicon has developed. The
terms are colorful, and some are listed here:
1. Golden parachutes. Some target firms provide compensation to top-level management
if a takeover occurs. For example, when the Scoville board endorsed a $523 million ten-
der offer by First City Properties, it arranged for 13 top executives to receive termina-
tion payments of about $5 million. This can be viewed as a payment to management to
make it less concerned for its own welfare and more interested in stockholders when
considering a takeover bid. Alternatively, the payment can be seen as an attempt to en-
rich management at the stockholders’ expense.
2. Crown jewels. Firms often sell major assets—crown jewels—when faced with a
takeover threat. This is sometimes referred to as the scorched earth strategy.
3. Poison pill. Poison pill is a term taken from the world of espionage. Agents are sup-
posed to bite a pill of cyanide rather than permit capture. Presumably this prevents en-
emy interrogators from learning important secrets. In finance, poison pills are used to
make a stock repellent to others. A poison pill is generally a right to buy shares in the
merged firm at a bargain price. The right is granted to the target firm’s shareholders,
contingent on another firm acquiring control.25 The right dilutes the stock so much
that the bidding firm loses money on its shares. Thus, wealth is transferred from the
bidder to the target.
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
841
24For the academic community’s view of LBOs, see “A Discussion of Corporate Restructuring,” Midland
Corporate Finance Journal (Summer 1984), which features a roundtable discussion by a number of prominent
university professors.
25P. H. Malatesta and R. A. Walkling, “Poison Pill Securities: Stockholder Wealth, Profitability and Ownership
Structure,” Journal of Financial Economics (January/March 1988). The authors conclude that the poison pill
reduces stockholder wealth. Also see R. A. Walkling and M. Long, “Agency Theory, Managerial Welfare and
Takeover Bid Resistance,” Rand Journal of Economics (Spring 1984).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
847
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
• What can a firm do to make a takeover less likely?
30.11 SOME EVIDENCE ON ACQUISITIONS
One of the most controversial issues surrounding our subject is whether mergers and ac-
quisitions benefit shareholders.
Do Acquisitions Benefit Shareholders?
Much research has attempted to estimate the effect of mergers and takeovers on stock prices
of the bidding and target firms. These studies are called event studies because they estimate
abnormal stock-price changes on and around the offer-announcement date—the event. Ab-
normal returns are usually defined as the difference between actual stock returns and a mar-
ket index or a control group of stocks, to take account of the influence of marketwide ef-
fects on the returns of individual securities.
The Short Run
An overview of the short run evidence is reported in Jensen and Ruback. Tables 30.9 and
30.10 summarize the results of numerous studies that look at the effects of mergers and ten-
der offers on stock prices from the announcement date to the completion date. Table 30.9
shows that the shareholders of target companies in successful takeovers achieve large ab-
normal returns. When the takeover is done by merger the gains are 20 percent, and when
the takeover is done by tender offer the gains are 30 percent.
The shareholders of bidding firms do not fare nearly as well. According to the studies
summarized in Table 30.9, bidders experience abnormal returns of 4 percent in tender of-
fers, and in mergers the percentage is zero. These numbers are sufficiently small to leave
doubt about the effect on bidders. Table 30.10 shows that the shareholders of firms involved
in unsuccessful takeover attempts experience small negative returns in both mergers and
tender offers. What conclusions can be drawn from Tables 30.9 and 30.10?
842
Part VIII
Special Topics
I TABLE 30.9 Abnormal Stock-Price Changes Associated with
Successful Corporate Takeover Bids
Takeover
Technique
Target
Bidders
Tender offer
30%
4%
Merger
20%
0
Proxy contest
8%
n.a.
n.a.  Not applicable.
Modified from Michael C. Jensen and Richard S. Ruback, “The Market for Corporate Control: The Scientific
Evidence,” Journal of Financial Economics 11 (April 1983), pp. 7, 8. © Elsevier Science Publishers B. V.
(North-Holland).
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
848
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
1. The results of all event studies suggest that the shareholders of target firms achieve substan-
tial short-term gains as a result of successful takeovers.26 The gains appear to be larger in ten-
der offers than in mergers. This may reflect the fact that takeovers sometimes start with a
friendly merger proposal from the bidder to the management of the target firm. If manage-
ment rejects the offer, the bidding firm may take the offer directly to the shareholders with an
unfriendly tender offer. The target management may actively oppose the offer with defensive
tactics. This often has the result of raising the tender offer from the bidding firm, and, thus, on
the average, friendly mergers are arranged at a lower premium than unfriendly tender offers.
2. The shareholders of bidding firms earn comparatively little from takeovers. They earn
an average of only 4 percent from tender offers and do not appear to earn anything from
mergers. In fact, in a study by Asquith the shareholders of acquiring firms in successful
mergers experienced significantly abnormal losses after the announcement of the
merger.27 These findings are a puzzle.
a. One possible explanation is that anticipated merger gains were not completely
achieved, and thus shareholders experienced losses. Managers of bidding firms may
have hubris and tend to overestimate the gains from acquisition.28
b. The bidding firms are usually much larger than the target firms. Thus, the dollar gains
to the bidder may be approximately the same as the dollar gains to the shareholders
of the target firm at the same time that the percentage returns are much lower for the
bidding firms.
c. Management may not be acting in the interests of shareholders when it attempts to
acquire other firms. Perhaps it is attempting to increase the size of its firm, even if this
reduces its value.
d. Several studies indicate that the returns of bidding firms cannot be measured very eas-
ily. Malatesta, and Schipper and Thompson show that many of the gains to the share-
holders of bidding firms come when acquisition programs commence. The incremen-
tal effect of each acquisition on stock price may be very small, because the stock price
at commencement reflects the anticipated gains from future acquisitions.29
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
843
I TABLE 30.10 Abnormal Stock-Price Changes Associated with
Unsuccessful Corporate Takeover Bids
Takeover
Technique
Target
Bidders
Tender offer
3%
1%
Merger
3%
5%
Proxy contest
8%
n.a.
n.a.  Not applicable.
Modified from Michael C. Jensen and Richard S. Ruback, “The Market for Corporate Control: The Scientific
Evidence,” Journal of Financial Economics 11 (April 1983), pp. 7, 8. © Elsevier Science Publishers B. V.
(North-Holland).
26This has been a consistent finding in all merger studies. G. Mandelker, “Risk and Return: The Case of the Merging
Firm,” Journal of Financial Economics (1974), was one of the first to document the premiums to acquired firms.
27P. Asquith, “Merger Bids, Uncertainty and Stockholder Returns,” Journal of Financial Economics 11 (April 1983).
28R. Roll, “The Hubris Hypothesis of Corporate Takeover,” Journal of Business (April 1986).
29P. H. Malatesta, “The Wealth Effect of Merger Activity and the Objective Function of Merging Firms,”
Journal of Financial Economics 11 (April 1983); and K. Schipper and R. Thompson, “Evidence on the
Capitalized Value of Merger Activity for Acquiring Firms,” Journal of Financial Economics 11 (April 1983).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
849
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
3. The return to the shareholders of targets of unsuccessful merger, measured from the of-
fer date to the cancellation date, is negative. Thus, all the initial gains are lost over the
time period during which the merger failure becomes known. The overall average return
to shareholders of unsuccessful tender offers is about the same as for unsuccessful
merger attempts. However, the story is more complicated. Bradley, Desai, and Kim re-
port that how well shareholders of target firms do in unsuccessful tender offers depends
on whether or not future takeover offers are forthcoming. They find that target-firm
shareholders realize additional positive gains when a new offer is made but lose every-
thing previously gained if no other offer occurs.30
The Long Run
The evidence on long run stock returns following acquisition is provided by Loughran and
Vijh. Table 30.11 summarizes the results of their study of nearly 1,000 acquiring (bidding)
firms from 1970 to 1989. They compute the average abnormal return to shareholders from
the date of the acquisition over a subsequent five-year period. Table 30.11 shows that share-
holders of acquiring firms earn negative average abnormal returns. Previously we reported
that shareholders of acquiring firms did not fare particularly well in the short run. Now we
see that five years after the date of the acquisition, shareholders of acquiring firms continue
to do poorly, earning an abnormal average return of 6.5 percent.
Table 30.11 also shows that the method of payment in acquisitions is important in the
distribution of long run returns. When the acquirer pays cash for the target, shareholders
gain an abnormal average return of 18.5 percent. However, when the acquirer pays with its
own stock, shareholders experience a negative abnormal average return of 24.2 percent.
Several conclusions can be drawn from Table 30.11.
1. In the long run, the shareholders of acquiring firms experience below average returns. If
significant, this finding raises questions about the efficient market hypothesis, since any
negative information implicit in an acquisition should be reflected in stock returns by the
date of the acquisition.
2. Cash-financed mergers are different than stock-financed mergers. When an acquisition
is financed by stock, it is useful to think of the acquisition as a combination of two
events: an issue of stock and an acquisition. It is known from Loughran and Ritter (Chap-
844
Part VIII
Special Topics
30M. Bradley, A. Desai, and E. H. Kim, “The Rationale behind Interfirm Tender Offers: Information or
Synergy,” Journal of Financial Economics 11 (April 1983).
I TABLE 30.11 Abnormal Five-Year Stock Returns of Acquiring
Firms from 1970 to 1989
Acquirers using unfriendly cash tender offers
61.7%
Acquirers who pay cash (both friendly and unfriendly)
18.5%
All acquirers
6.5%
Acquirers using stock
24.2%
Source: T. Loughran and A. Vijh, “Do Long-Term Shareholders Benefit from Corporate Acquisitions,” Journal
of Finance (December, 1997), Table II. The abnormal returns are measured over a five-year period beginning at
the date of the acquisition. For example, the overall sample of 947 acquisitions experienced an average five-year
return of 88.2 percent compared to 94.7 percent for a sample of matching firms. The difference equals 6.5
percent (see above).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
850
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
ter 18) that the long-term abnormal returns following new equity issues are negative. The
poor long run performance of stock-financed mergers could be the result of new stock
issues that take place with these mergers.
3. Acquirers can also be divided into friendly and unfriendly cash acquirers. The shares of
unfriendly cash acquirers have significantly outperformed those of friendly cash ac-
quirers. One possible interpretation of this is that unfriendly cash bidders are more likely
to replace poor management. If so, the removal of poor managers may contribute to the
above average long run performance.
Real Productivity
There are many potential synergies from mergers and acquisitions. Unfortunately, it is very
hard to precisely measure synergy. In the previous section, we focused on stock-market
gains or losses to the shareholders of the acquiring and acquired firms. In very general
terms, we found that target-firm shareholders experience stock-market gains and acquiring-
firm shareholders experience stock-market losses. There appear to be net gains to stock-
holders. This would suggest that mergers can increase real productivity. In fact, several re-
cent studies suggest that mergers can increase real productivity. Healey, Palepu, and Ruback
report that merged companies’ after-tax returns increased substantially after the mergers.
They trace this gain to an increase in selling activity (turnover). They find no evidence that
merged firms cut back on positive NPV capital expenditures.31
• What does the evidence say about the benefits of mergers and acquisitions?
30.12 THE JAPANESE KEIRETSU
In Japan it has been unusual for firms to grow by large-scale mergers and acquisitions.
However, in the late 1980s several Japanese firms acquired large U.S. firms.32 Most notably,
Sony acquired CBS Records in November 1987 and Columbia Pictures in September 1989.
Sony’s acquisition of Columbia Pictures for $3.45 billion is the largest Japanese acquisition
of a U.S. firm. The second largest was Bridgestone Corporation’s acquisition of Firestone
Tire and Rubber for $2.6 billion in March 1988.
The most interesting Japanese business combinations involve reciprocal shareholding
and trading agreements. These networks are called keiretsu and involve a group of firms
affiliated around a large bank, industrial firm, or trading firm. The Mitsubishi and the Mitsui
keiretsu groups are shown in Figure 30.3.
Participation in the Mitsubishi or Mitsui keiretsu implies significant reciprocal owner-
ship of common stock. It is widely understood that firms within the keiretsu are not to sell
these cross-held shares.
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
845
31P. Healey, K. Palepu, and R. Ruback, “Does Corporate Performance Improve After Mergers,” Journal of
Financial Economics 31 (1997).
32W. Carl Kester, Japanese Takeovers, the Global Contest for Corporate Control, Cambridge, Mass.: 1991
(Harvard Business School Press). Chapter 5 describes the acquisition experience of several Japanese firms.
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
851
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Nobody knows for sure what the main benefit of the keiretsu is. However, one of the
most important features of the keiretsu is the relationship between the industrial firms and
the financial institutions. For example, Mitsubishi Motors may have an extensive relation-
ship with Mitsubishi Trust and Banking, Meiji Mutual Life, and Tokio Marine and Fire.
This connection between industrial firms and financial institutions within the group may
benefit the group by reducing the costs of financial distress that come from getting credi-
846
Part VIII
Special Topics
I FIGURE 30.3 Japanese Keiretsu
Mitsubishi
Mitsui
Financial Services
Mitsubishi Bank
Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank
Mitsubishi Trust & Banking
Mitsui Trust & Banking
Meiji Mutual Life
Mitsui Mutual Life
Tokio Marine & Fire
Taisho Marine & Fire
Computers, Electronics,
Mitsubishi Electric
Toshiba
and Electrical Equipment
Cars
Mitsubishi Motors
Toyota Motor*
Trading and Retailing
Mitsubishi
Mitsui
Mitsukoshi
Food and Beverage
Kirin Brewery
Nippon Flour Mills
Construction
Mitsubishi Construction
Mitsui Construction
Sanki Engineering
Metals
Mitsubishi Steel Mfg.
Japan Steel Works
Mitsubishi Materials
Mitsui Mining & Smelting
Mitsubishi Aluminum
Mitsubishi Cable Industries
Real Estate
Mitsubishi Estate
Mitsui Real Estate
Development
Oil and Coal
Mitsubishi Oil
Rubber and Glass
Asahi Glass
Chemicals
Mitsubishi Kasei
Mitsui Toatsu Chemicals
Mitsubishi Petrochemical
Mitsui Petrochemical
Mitsubishi Gas Chemical
Industries
Mitsubishi Plastics Industries
Mitsubishi Kasei Polytec
Fibers and Textiles
Mitsubishi Rayon
Tory Industries
Pulp and Paper
Mitsubishi Paper Mills
Oji Paper
Mining and Forestry
Mitsui Mining
Hokkaido Colliery &
Steamship
Industrial Equipment
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
Mitsui Engineering &
Mitsubishi Kakoki
Shipbuilding
Cameras and Optics
Nikon
Cement
Onoda Cement
Shipping and Transportation
Nippon Yusen
Mitsui OSK Lines
Mitsubishi Warehouse
Mitsui Warehouse
& Transportation
This table describes the network of firms in the Mitsubishi and Mitsui keiretsu.
*Companies affiliated with more than one group.
Source: Fortune (July 15, 1991), p. 81.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
852
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
tors to agree to a restructuring if one of the keiretsu members gets into financial trouble.33
Reaching an agreement between Mitsubishi Bank and Mitsubishi Motors will be easier if
Mitsubishi Motors gets into trouble because both are in the Mitsubishi keiretsu.
• Can you describe a keiretsu?
• What is a benefit of a keiretsu?
30.13 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1. One firm can acquire another in several different ways. The three legal forms of acquisition
are merger and consolidation, acquisition of stock, and acquisition of assets. Mergers and
consolidations are the least costly to arrange from a legal standpoint, but they require a vote
of approval by the shareholders. Acquisition by stock does not require a shareholder vote and
is usually done via a tender offer. However, it is difficult to obtain 100-percent control with a
tender offer. Acquisition of assets is comparatively costly because it requires more difficult
transfer of asset ownership.
2. Mergers and acquisitions require an understanding of complicated tax and accounting rules.
Mergers and acquisitions can be taxable or tax-free transactions. In a taxable transaction,
each selling shareholder must pay taxes on the stock’s capital appreciation. Should the
acquiring firm elect to write up the assets, additional tax implications arise. However,
acquiring firms do not generally elect to write up the assets for tax purposes. The selling
stockholders do not pay taxes at the time of a tax-free acquisition.
Accounting for mergers and acquisitions involves a choice of the purchase method or
the pooling-of-interests method. The choice between these two methods does not affect after-
tax cash flows of the combined firm. However, most financial managers prefer the pooling-
of-interests method, because net income of the combined firm under this method is higher
than it is under the purchase method.
3. The synergy from an acquisition is defined as the value of the combined firm (VAB) less the
value of the two firms as separate entities (VA and VB), or
Synergy  VAB  (VA  VB)
The shareholders of the acquiring firm will gain if the synergy from the merger is greater
than the premium.
4. The possible benefits of an acquisition come from the following:
a. Revenue enhancement
b. Cost reduction
c. Lower taxes
d. Lower cost of capital
In addition, the reduction in risk from a merger may actually help bondholders and hurt
stockholders.
5. Some of the most colorful language of finance stems from defensive tactics in acquisition
battles. Poison pills, golden parachutes, crown jewels, and greenmail are terms that describe
various antitakeover tactics. These tactics are discussed in this chapter.
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
847
33This is the argument of Takeo Hoshi, Anil K. Kashyup, and David Scharfstein, “The Role of Banks in Reducing
Financial Distress in Japan.” A paper in the Finance and Economic Discussion Series, No. 134, Federal Reserve
Board, Washington, D. C. (October 1990). See also, W. Carl Kester, “Japanese Corporate Governance and the
Conservation of Value in Financial Distress,” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance (Summer 1991).
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
853
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
6. The empirical research on mergers and acquisitions is extensive. Its basic conclusions are
that, on average, the shareholders of acquired firms fare very well, while the shareholders of
acquiring firms do not gain much.
7. The keiretsu is a Japanese form of business network. It involves reciprocal shareholding and
agreements among member firms.
KEY TERMS
Bidder
818
Merger
817
Consolidation
817
Poison pill
841
Crown jewels
841
Pooling of interests
822
Golden parachutes
841
Purchase
821
Goodwill
821
Tender offer
817
Keiretsu
845
SUGGESTED READINGS
Several fun-to-read trade books on mergers and acquisitions have recently been published,
including:
Wasserstein, Bruce. Big Deal: 2000 and Beyond. Warner Books, 2000. Pitaro, Regina M. Deals,
Deals and More Deals. Gabelli University Press, 1998.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
The Basic Forms of Acquisitions
30.1 The Lager Brewing Corporation has acquired the Philadelphia Pretzel Company in a
vertical merger. Lager Brewing has issued $300,000 in new long-term debt to pay for its
purchase. ($300,000 is the purchase price.) Construct the balance sheet for the new
corporation if the merger is treated as a purchase for accounting purposes. The balance
sheets shown here represent the assets of both firms at their true market values. Assume
these market values are also the book values.
LAGER BREWING CORPORATION
Balance Sheet
(in $ thousands)
Current assets
$ 400
Current liabilities
$ 200
Other assets
100
Long-term debt
100
Net fixed assets
500
Equity
700
______
______
Total
$1,000
Total
$1,000
______
______
______
______
PHILADELPHIA PRETZEL COMPANY
Balance Sheet
(in $ thousands)
Current assets
$ 80
Current liabilities
$ 80
Other assets
40
Equity
120
Net fixed assets
80
_____
_____
Total
$200
Total
$200
_____
_____
_____
_____
848
Part VIII
Special Topics

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
854
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
30.2 Suppose the balance sheet for Philadelphia Pretzel in problem 30.1 shows the assets at
their book value and not their market value of $240,000. Construct the balance sheet for
the new corporation. Again, treat the transaction as a purchase.
30.3 Keep the assumptions of 30.2. Construct the balance sheet for the new corporation. Use
the pooling-of-interests method to treat the transaction.
Source of Synergy from Acquisitions
30.4 Indicate whether you think the following claims regarding takeovers are true or false. In
each case provide a brief explanation for your answer.
a. By merging competitors, takeovers have created monopolies that will raise product
prices, reduce production, and harm consumers.
b. Managers act in their own interests at times and, in reality, may not be answerable to
shareholders. Takeovers may reflect runaway management.
c. In an efficient market, takeovers would not occur because market price would reflect
the true value of corporations. Thus, bidding firms would not be justified in paying
premiums above market prices for target firms.
d. Traders and institutional investors, having extremely short time horizons, are
influenced by their perceptions of what other market traders will be thinking of stock
prospects and do not value takeovers based on fundamental factors. Thus, they will sell
shares in target firms despite the true value of the firms.
e. Mergers are a way of avoiding taxes because they allow the acquiring firm to write up
the value of the assets of the acquired firm.
f. Acquisitions analysis frequently focuses on the total value of the firms involved. An
acquisition, however, will usually affect relative values of stocks and bonds, as well as
their total value.
Calculating the Value of the Firm after an Acquisition
30.5 The following table shows the projected cash flows and their respective discount rates after
the acquisition of Small Fry Co. by Whale Co. Fill in the blanks and calculate the stock price
of the new firm if it has $100 million of debt and 5 million shares of stock outstanding.
Net Cash Flow per
Year (Perpetual)
Value
(in $ millions)
Discount Rate (%)
(in $ millions)
Small Fry Co.
$ 8.
16%
?
Whale Co.
20
10
?
Benefits from acquisition
5
?
42.5
Revenue enhancement
2.5
?
12.5
Cost reduction
2
10
?
Tax shelters
0.5
5
?
Whale-Co.
33
?
?
A Cost to Stockholders from Reduction in Risk
30.6 The Chocolate Ice Cream Company and the Vanilla Ice Cream Company have agreed to
merge and form Fudge Swirl Consolidated. Both companies are exactly alike except that
they are located in different towns. The end-of-period value of each firm is determined by
the weather, as shown.
State
Probability
Value
Rainy
0.1
$100,000
Warm
0.4
200,000
Hot
0.5
400,000
The weather conditions in each town are independent of those in the other. Furthermore, each
company has an outstanding debt claim of $200,000. Assume that no premiums are paid in the merger.
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
849

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
855
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
a. What is the distribution of joint values?
b. What is the distribution of end-of-period debt values and stock values after the merger?
c. Show that the value of the combined firm is the sum of the individual values.
d. Show that the bondholders are better off and the stockholders are worse off in the
combined firm than they would have been if the firms remained separate.
30.7 Cholern Electric Company (CEC) is a public utility that provides electricity to the central
Colorado area. Recent events at its Mile-High Nuclear Station have been discouraging.
Several shareholders have expressed concern over last year’s financial statements.
Income Statement
Balance Sheet
Last Year
End of Year
(in $ millions)
(in $ millions)
Revenue
$110
Assets
$400
Fuel
50
Debt
300
Other expenses
30
Equity
100
Interest
30
____
Net income
$
0
Recently, a wealthy group of individuals has offered to purchase one-half of CEC’s assets
at fair market price. Management recommends that this offer be accepted because, “We
believe our expertise in the energy industry can be better exploited by CEC if we sell our
electricity generating and transmission assets and enter the telecommunications business.
Although telecommunications is a riskier business than providing electricity as a public
utility, it is also potentially very profitable.”
Should the management approve this transaction? Why or why not?
Two “Bad” Reasons for Mergers
30.8 Refer to the Global Resources example in section 30.8 of the text. Suppose that instead of
40 shares, Global exchanges 100 of its shares for the 100 shares of Regional. The new
Global Resources will now have 200 shares outstanding and earnings of $200. Assume the
market is smart.
a. Calculate Global’s value after the merger.
b. Calculate Global’s earnings per share.
c. Calculate Global’s price per share.
d. Redo your answers to (a), (b), and (c) if the market is fooled.
30.9 Coldran Aviation has voted in favor of being bought out by Arcadia Financial Corporation.
Information about each company is presented below.
Arcadia Financial
Coldran Aviation
Price-earnings ratio
16
10.8
Number of shares
100,000
50,000
Earnings
$225,000
$100,000
Stockholders in Coldran Aviation will receive six-tenths of a share of Arcadia for each
share they hold.
a. How will the earnings per share (EPS) for these stockholders be changed?
b. What will be the effect on the original Arcadia stockholders of changes in the EPS?
The NPV of a Merger
30.10 Fly-By-Night Couriers is analyzing the possible acquisition of Flash-in-the-Pan
Restaurants. Neither firm has debt. The forecasts of Fly-By-Night show that the purchase
would increase its annual after-tax cash flow by $600,000 indefinitely. The current market
value of Flash-in-the-Pan is $20 million. The current market value of Fly-By-Night is $35
million. The appropriate discount rate for the incremental cash flows is 8 percent.
850
Part VIII
Special Topics

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
856
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
a. What is the synergy from the merger?
b. What is the value of Flash-in-the-Pan to Fly-By-Night?
Fly-By-Night is trying to decide whether it should offer 25 percent of its stock or $15
million in cash to Flash-in-the-Pan.
c. What is the cost to Fly-By-Night of each alternative?
d. What is the NPV to Fly-By-Night of each alternative?
e. Which alternative should Fly-By-Night use?
30.11 Freeport Manufacturing is considering making an offer to purchase Portland Industries.
The treasurer of Freeport has collected the following information:
Freeport
Portland
Price-earnings ratio
15
12
Number of shares
1,000,000
250,000
Earnings
$1,000,000
$750,000
The treasurer also knows that securities analysts expect the earnings and dividends
(currently $1.80 per share) of Portland to grow at a constant rate of 5 percent each year.
Her research indicates, however, that the acquisition would provide Portland with some
economies of scale that would improve this growth rate to 7 percent per year.
a. What is the value of Portland to Freeport?
b. If Freeport offers $40 in cash for each outstanding share of Portland, what would the
NPV of the acquisition be?
c. If instead Freeport were to offer 600,000 of its shares in exchange for the outstanding
stock of Portland, what would the NPV of the acquisition be?
d. Should the acquisition be attempted, and if so, should it be a cash or stock offer?
e. Freeport’s management thinks that 7-percent growth is too optimistic and that 6
percent is more realistic. How does this change your previous answers?
30.12 Harrods PLC has a market value of £600 million and 30 million shares outstanding.
Selfridge Department Store has a market value of £200 million and 20 million shares
outstanding. Harrods is contemplating acquiring Selfridge Department Store. Harrods’
CFO concludes that the combined firm with synergy will be worth £1 billion and
Selfridge can be acquired at a premium of £100 million.
a. If Harrods offers 15 million shares to exchange for the 20 million shares of Selfridge,
what will the after-acquisition stock price of Harrods be?
b. To make the value of a stock offer equivalent to a cash offer of £300 million, what
would be the proper exchange ratio of the two stocks?
30.13 Company A is contemplating acquiring company B. Company B’s projected revenues,
cost, and required investment appear in the table that follows. The table also shows
sources for financing company B’s investments if B is acquired by A. The table
incorporates the following information:
Company B will immediately increase its leverage with a $110 million loan, which
would be followed by a $150 million dividend to company A. (This operation will
increase the debt-to-equity ratio of company B from 1/3 to 1/1.)
Company A will use $50 million of tax-loss carryforwards available from the firm’s
other operations.
The terminal, total value of company B is estimated to be $900 million in five years, and
the projected level of debt then is $300 million.
The risk-free rate and the expected rate of return on the market portfolio are 6
percent and 14 percent, respectively. Company A analysts estimate the weighted average
cost of capital for their company to be 10 percent. The borrowing rate for both
companies is 8 percent. The beta coefficient for the stock of company B (at its current
capital structure) is estimated to be 1.25.
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
851

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
857
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The board of directors of company A is presented with an offer for $68.75 per share
of company B, or a total of $550 million for the 8 million shares outstanding. 
Evaluate this proposal. The table produced below may help you.
Projections for Company  B
if Acquired by Company  A
(in $ millions)
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
Sales
$800
$900
$1,000
$1,125
$1,250
Production costs
562
630
700
790
875
Depreciation
75
80
82
83
83
Other expenses
80
90
100
113
125
____
____
_____
_____
_____
EBIT
83
100
118
139
167
Interest
19
22
24
25
27
____
____
_____
_____
_____
EBT
64
78
94
114
140
Taxes
32
39
47
57
70
____
____
_____
_____
_____
Net income
32
39
47
57
70
Investments:
Net working capital
20
25
25
30
30
Net fixed assets
15
25
18
12
7
____
____
_____
_____
_____
Total
35
50
43
42
37
Sources of financing:
Net debt financing
35
16
16
15
12
Profit retention
0
34
27
27
25
____
____
_____
_____
_____
Total
$ 35
$ 50
$
43
$
42
$
37
Cash Flows—Company  A
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
Acquisition of B
—
Dividends from B
150
—
—
—
—
—
Tax-loss
carryforwards
25
25
—
Terminal value
—
—
—
—
—
—
Total
—
—
—
—
—
—
Defensive Tactics
30.14 List the defensive tactics commonly used by target-firm managers to resist unfriendly
takeover attempts.
MINICASE: U.S. STEEL’S ACQUISITION OF MARATHON OIL
In the summer of 1981, Marathon Oil Company commissioned the First Boston Corpora-
tion to prepare an analysis of the underlying asset value of Marathon based solely on pub-
licly available information. Before First Boston could complete the study, Mobil Corpora-
tion announced a tender offer for Marathon’s common equity, thus launching one of the
most eventful takeover stories in American corporate history.
852
Part VIII
Special Topics

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
30. Mergers and 
Acquisitions
858
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
On October 30, 1981, Mobil bid $85 per share for up to 40 million shares of Marathon’s
common equity. Before the announcement, Marathon stock traded for about $64 per share
on the New York Stock Exchange. Before trading on the new information commenced,
Marathon management rejected Mobil’s offer as grossly inadequate and began seeking a
white knight merger candidate. When trading began on Monday, November 2, 1981,
Marathon’s shares shot up immediately to the $90-per-share range for a one-day abnormal
excess return of more than 30 percent. The market reacted to Mobil’s offer by bidding
Mobil’s common stock down to $253⁄8 for a one-day abnormal return of 4.26 percent.
(November 2, 1981, was also the ex-dividend date for a $0.50 per share dividend declared
earlier. The share price, however, fell $5⁄8.) These data suggest that the market viewed the
possible acquisition of Marathon by Mobil at $85 per share as a near-zero net-present-value
transaction for Mobil. The dramatic response of Marathon’s share price was very likely
caused by anticipation of more bidding. These traders were not to be disappointed.
On November 9, the management of U.S. Steel Corporation expressed an interest in
acquiring Marathon. The possible takeover price was rumored to be $100 per share in cash
and notes. Presumably because the market actually valued this offer as less than Mobil’s of-
fer, Marathon’s common stock showed an abnormal return for the day of 2.91 percent.
The effect of the rumors on U.S. Steel’s share price was insignificant, so it may be con-
cluded that the market felt that the transaction at this price would be a zero net-present-
value transaction for U.S. Steel as well.
During subsequent negotiations, U.S. Steel raised its price and actually tendered $125
per share for up to 30 million shares of Marathon stock on November 18. On the next trad-
ing day Marathon showed a one-day abnormal excess return on its share price of almost 35
percent; again the market roared its approval for the reevaluation of Marathon. U.S. Steel’s
common, however, showed significantly negative abnormal returns in response to this
news. This indicates that the market believed U.S. Steel overbid for Marathon. Mobil’s
share price showed no significant abnormal return on November 18 and 19.
However, on November 25, Mobil raised its bid to $126 per share, and the market re-
sponded by lowering the value of both Mobil and U.S. Steel by significant amounts.
Apparently the market believed that at this price the merger was unattractive for both Mobil
and U.S. Steel. Marathon’s stock fell in price by a significant amount in response to Mobil’s
offer, perhaps because Mobil’s offer and U.S. Steel’s offer were valued nearly equally by
the market, and this signaled the end of the bidding and the end of speculating in Marathon.
Suppose that a U.S. Steel tender offer is structured in the following way. U.S. Steel will
pay $125 (in cash) for 30 million shares of Marathon giving it 50.1 percent of the Marathon
shares. After gaining voting control, U.S. Steel intends to merge with Marathon and will
pay the remaining shareholders with seven-year notes worth about $85 per share. Further,
suppose you own 10 shares of Marathon stock. Should you tender your shares?
Chapter 30
Mergers and Acquisitions
853

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
859
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Financial Distress
CHAPTER 31
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
T
his chapter discusses financial distress, private workouts, and bankruptcy. A firm
that does not generate enough cash flow to make a contractually required payment,
such as an interest payment, will experience financial distress. A firm that defaults
on a required payment may be forced to liquidate its assets. More often, a defaulting firm
will reorganize its financial structure. Financial restructuring involves replacing old finan-
cial claims with new ones and takes place with private workouts or legal bankruptcy. Pri-
vate workouts are voluntary arrangements to restructure a company’s debt, such as post-
poning a payment or reducing the size of the payment. Sometimes a private workout is not
possible and formal bankruptcy is required. The largest formal bankruptcy in U.S. financial
history occurred in April 1987 when Texaco filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy. (See Table 31.1
for information on the largest U.S. bankruptcies.)
31.1 WHAT IS FINANCIAL DISTRESS?
Financial distress is surprisingly hard to define precisely. This is true partly because of the
variety of events befalling firms under financial distress. The list of events is almost end-
less but here are some examples:
Dividend reductions
Plant closings
Losses
Layoffs
CEO resignations
Plummeting stock prices
Financial distress is a situation where a firm’s operating cash flows are not sufficient to
satisfy current obligations (such as trade credits or interest expenses) and the firm is forced to
take corrective action.1 Financial distress may lead a firm to default on a contract, and it may
involve financial restructuring between the firm, its creditors, and its equity investors. Usually
the firm is forced to take actions that it would not have taken if it had sufficient cash flow.
Our definition of financial distress can be expanded somewhat by linking it to insol-
vency. Insolvency is defined in Black’s Law Dictionary as2
1This definition is close to the one used by Karen Wruck, “Financial Distress: Reorganization and Organization
Efficiency,” Journal of Financial Economics 27 (1990), p. 425.
2Taken from Black’s Law Dictionary, 5th ed. (St. Paul, Minn.: West Publishing Company), p. 716.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
860
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Inability to pay one’s debts; lack of means of paying one’s debts. Such a condition of a
woman’s (or man’s) assets and liability that the former made immediately available would be
insufficient to discharge the latter.
This definition has two general themes, stocks and flows.3 These two ways of thinking
about insolvency are depicted in Figure 31.1. The stock-based insolvency occurs when a
firm has negative net worth, and so the value of assets is less than the value of its debts.
Flow-based insolvency occurs when operating cash flow is insufficient to meet current ob-
ligations. Flow-based insolvency refers to the inability to pay one’s debts.
• Can you describe financial distress?
• What are stock-based insolvency and flow-based insolvency?
Chapter 31
Financial Distress
855
3Edward Altman was one of the first to distinguish between stock-based insolvency and flow-based insolvency.
See Edward Altman, Corporate Financial Distress: A Complete Guide to Predicting, Avoiding and Dealing with
Bankruptcy (New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1983).
I TABLE 31.1 The Largest U.S. Bankruptcies
Liabilities
Firm
(in $ millions)
Bankruptcy Date
Texaco (including subsidiaries)
$21,603
April 1987
Executive Life Insurance
14,577
April 1991
Mutual Benefit Life
13,500
July 1991
Campeau (Allied & Federated)
9,947
January 1990
First Capital Holdings
9,291
May 1991
Baldwin United
9,000
September 1983
Continental Airlines (II)
6,200
December 1990
Lomas Financial
6,127
September 1989
Macy’s
5,300
January 1992
Columbia Gas
4,998
July 1991
LTV (including LTV International NV)
4,700
July 1986
Maxwell Communication
4,100
December 1991
TWA
3,470
January 1992
Southland
3,380
October 1990
Penn Central Transportation
3,300
June 1970
Eastern Airlines
3,196
March 1989
Drexel Burnham Lambert
3,000
February 1990
Pan Am World Airlines
3,000
January 1991
Interco
2,213
May 1990
Laventhol & Horwath
2,000
November 1990
Wickes
2,000
April 1982
Global Marine
1,800
January 1986
ITEL
1,700
January 1981
Public Service, New Hampshire
1,700
January 1988
Continental Information Systems
1,669
January 1989
Integrated Resources
1,600
February 1990
Revco
1,500
July 1988
Source: Supplied by Edward I. Altman.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
861
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
31.2 WHAT HAPPENS IN FINANCIAL DISTRESS?
In the early 1990s Trans World Airline, Inc. (TWA) experienced financial distress. It lost
money in 1989, 1990, and 1991 and steadily lost its market share to rivals United, Ameri-
can, and Delta. Having seen Eastern and Pan Am disappear, airline travelers had good rea-
son to be nervous about buying tickets from TWA.
In the summer of 1991, TWA General Counsel Mark A. Buckstein bet Carl Icahn, TWA
owner and CEO, $1,000 that the airline would be forced to involuntary bankruptcy by
September 1991.4 Icahn argued that he could arrange a private restructuring and avoid for-
mal bankruptcy. Icahn won the bet, but TWA eventually filed for bankruptcy on January 31,
1992. Icahn was quoted as saying the bankruptcy reorganization would give TWA the time
it needed to turn the firm around. The odds favored Icahn because financial distress does
not usually result in a firm’s death. TWA was reorganized in 1993. Icahn resigned as CEO
856
Part VIII
Special Topics
A. Stock-based insolvency
Solvent firm
Insolvent firm
Debt
Equity
Negative
equity
B. Flow-based insolvency
Assets
Assets
D
e
b
t
$
Contractual
obligations
Firm cash flow
Cash flow
shortfall
Insolvency
I FIGURE 31.1 Insolvency
Stock-based insolvency occurs when the value of the assets of a firm is less than the value of
the debts. This implies negative equity. Flow-based insolvency occurs when firm cash flows
are insufficient to cover contractually required payments.
4The bet was reported in “Carl has 9 lives but he is betting up to 81⁄2,” Business Week, February 24, 1992.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
862
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
and gave up all ownership claims. However, TWA continued to struggle and for the second
time, on July 3, 1995, filed for bankruptcy. Several months later, it emerged from bank-
ruptcy after exchanging $500 million of debt for equity. Remarkably, on January 9, 2001,
the board of TWA again approved a plan to file for bankruptcy. The plan included the pur-
chase of TWA by American Airlines for $500 million.
Firms deal with financial distress in several ways, such as
1. Selling major assets.
2. Merging with another firm.
3. Reducing capital spending and research and development.
4. Issuing new securities.
5. Negotiating with banks and other creditors.
6. Exchanging debt for equity.
7. Filing for bankruptcy.
Items (1), (2), and (3) concern the firm’s assets. Items (4), (5), (6), and (7) involve the right-
hand side of the firm’s balance sheet and are examples of financial restructuring. Financial
distress may involve both asset restructuring and financial restructuring (i.e., changes on
both sides of the balance sheet).
Some firms may actually benefit from financial distress by restructuring their assets.
In an earlier chapter we showed that, in 1986, Goodyear Tire and Rubber’s levered recapi-
talization changed the firm’s behavior and forced the firm to dispose of unrelated busi-
nesses. Goodyear’s cash flow was not sufficient to cover required payments, and it was
forced to sell its noncore businesses. For some firms financial distress may bring about new
organizational forms and new operating strategies. However, in this chapter we focus on fi-
nancial restructuring.
Financial restructuring may occur in a private workout or a bankruptcy reorganization
under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Figure 31.2 shows how large public firms
move through financial distress. Approximately one-half of the financial restructurings
have been done via private workouts. As was true for TWA, most large public firms (83 per-
cent) that file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy are able to reorganize and continue to do business.5
Financial distress can serve as a firm’s “early warning” system for trouble. Firms with
more debt will experience financial distress earlier than firms with less debt. However,
firms that experience financial distress earlier will have more time for private workouts and
reorganization. Firms with low leverage will experience financial distress later and, in many
instances, be forced to liquidate.
• Why doesn’t financial distress always cause firms to die?
• What is a benefit of financial distress?
31.3 BANKRUPTCY LIQUIDATION AND REORGANIZATION
Firms that cannot or choose not to make contractually required payments to creditors have
two basic options: liquidation or reorganization. This section discusses bankruptcy liqui-
dation and reorganization.
Chapter 31
Financial Distress
857
5However, only about 15 percent of all firms (public or private) going through a Chapter 11 bankruptcy are
successfully reorganized.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
863
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Liquidation means termination of the firm as a going concern; it involves selling the
assets of the firm for salvage value. The proceeds, net of transactions costs, are distributed
to creditors in order of established priority.
Reorganization is the option of keeping the firm a going concern; it sometimes in-
volves issuing new securities to replace old securities.
Liquidation and formal reorganization may be done by bankruptcy. Bankruptcy is a le-
gal proceeding and can be done voluntarily with the corporation filing the petition or in-
voluntarily with the creditors filing the petition.
Bankruptcy Liquidation
Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978 deals with “straight” liquidation. The fol-
lowing sequence of events is typical:
1. A petition is filed in a federal court. Corporations may file a voluntary petition, or in-
voluntary petitions may be filed against the corporation.
2. A trustee-in-bankruptcy is elected by the creditors to take over the assets of the debtor
corporation. The trustees will attempt to liquidate the assets.
3. When the assets are liquidated, after payment of the costs of administration, assets are
distributed among the creditors.
4. If any assets remain, after expenses and payments to creditors, they are distributed to the
shareholders.
858
Part VIII
Special Topics
No financial
restructuring
Financial
distress
Private
workout
Financial
restructuring
Reorganize and
emerge
Legal bankruptcy
Chapter 11
Merge with
another firm
Liquidation
49%
47%
83%
7%
10%
53%
51%
I FIGURE 31.2 What Happens in Financial Distress
Source: Karen H. Wruck, “Financial Distress: Reorganization and Organizational Efficiency,” Journal of
Financial Economics 27 (1990), Figure 2. See also Stuart C. Gilson; Kose John; and Larry N. P. Lang,
“Troubled Debt Restructurings: An Empirical Study of Private Reorganization of Firms in Defaults,” Journal of
Financial Economics 27 (1990); and Lawrence A. Weiss, “Bankruptcy Resolution: Direct Costs and Violation of
Priority of Claims,” Journal of Financial Economics 27 (1990).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
864
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Conditions Leading to Involuntary Bankruptcy
An involuntary bankruptcy petition
may be filed by creditors if both the following conditions are met:
1. The corporation is not paying debts as they become due.
2. If there are more than 12 creditors, at least three with claims totaling $5,000 or more
must join in the filing. If there are fewer than 12 creditors, then only one with a claim of
$5,000 is required to file.
Priority of Claims
Once a corporation is determined to be bankrupt, liquidation takes
place. The distribution of the proceeds of the liquidation occurs according to the fol-
lowing priority:
1. Administration expenses, associated with liquidating the bankrupt’s assets.
2. Unsecured claims arising after the filing of an involuntary bankruptcy petition.
3. Wages, salaries, and commissions, not to exceed $2,000 per claimant, earned within 90
days before the filing date.
4. Contributions to employee benefit plans arising within 180 days before the filing date.
5. Consumer claims, not exceeding $900.
6. Tax claims.
7. Secured and unsecured creditors’ claims.
8. Preferred stockholders’ claims.
9. Common stockholders’ claims.
The priority rule in liquidation is the absolute priority rule (APR).
One qualification to this list concerns secured creditors. Liens on property are outside
APR ordering. However, if the secured property is liquidated and provides cash insufficient
to cover the amount owed them, the secured creditors join with unsecured creditors in di-
viding the remaining liquidating value. In contrast, if the secured property is liquidated for
proceeds greater than the secured claim, the net proceeds are used to pay unsecured credi-
tors and others.
EXAMPLE
The B. O. Drug Company is to be liquidated. Its liquidating value is $2.7 mil-
lion. Bonds worth $1.5 million are secured by a mortgage on the B. O. Drug
Company corporate headquarters building, which is sold for $1 million;
$200,000 is used to cover administrative costs and other claims (including un-
paid wages, pension benefits, consumer claims, and taxes). After paying
$200,000 to the administrative priority claims, the amount available to pay se-
cured and unsecured creditors is $2.5 million. This is less than the amount of
unpaid debt of $4 million.
Under APR all creditors must be paid before shareholders, and the mortgage bond-
holders have first claim on the $1 million obtained from the sale of the headquarters
building.
The trustee has proposed the following distribution:
Chapter 31
Financial Distress
859

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
865
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Cash Received
under
Type of Claim
Prior Claim
Liquidation
Bonds (secured by mortgage)
$ 1,500,000
$1,500,000
Subordinated debentures
2,500,000
1,000,000
Common stockholders
10,000,000
0
__________
_________
Total
$14,000,000
$2,500,000
Calculation of the Distribution
Cash received from sale of assets 
available for distribution
$2,500,000
Cash paid to secured bondholders on sale
of mortgaged property
1,000,000
_________
Available to bond- and debenture-holders
$1,500,000
Total claims remaining ($4,000,000 less
payment of $1,000,000 on secured bonds)
$3,000,000
Distribution of remaining $1,500,000 to
cover total remaining claims of $3,000,000
Claim on
Type of Claim
Liquidation
Remaining
Proceeds
Cash Received
Bonds
$ 500,000
$ 500,000
Debentures
2,500,000
1,000,000
_________
_________
Total
$3,000,000
$1,500,000
860
Part VIII
Special Topics
IN THEIR OWN WORDS
Edward I. Altman* on Corporate Financial Distress and Bankruptcy
F
inancial distress of private and public entities
throughout the world is a frequent occurrence with
important implications to their many stakeholders. While
the role of corporate bankruptcy laws is clear—either to
provide a legal procedure that permits firms, which have
temporary liquidity problems, to restructure and success-
fully emerge as continuing entities or to provide an
orderly process to liquidate assets for the benefit of
creditors before asset values are dissipated—bankruptcy
laws differ markedly from country to country. It is
generally agreed that the U.S. Chapter 11 provisions
under the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978 provide the
most protection for bankrupt firms’ assets and result in a
greater likelihood of successful reorganization than is
found in other countries where liquidation and sale of the
assets for the benefit of creditors is more likely the result.
But, the U.S. Code’s process is usually lengthy
(averaging close to two years, except where a sufficient
number of creditors agree in advance via a prepackaged
Chapter 11) and expensive and the reorganized entity is
not always successful in avoiding subsequent distress. If
the reorganization is not successful, then liquidation
under Chapter 7 will usually ensue.
Bankruptcy processes in the industrialized world
outside the United States strongly favor senior creditors
who obtain control of the firm and seek to enforce
greater adherence to debt contracts. The U.K. process,
for example, is speedy and less costly but the reduced
costs can result in undesirable liquidations, unemploy-
ment and underinvestment. The new bankruptcy code in

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
866
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 31
Financial Distress
861
Germany attempts to reduce the considerable power of
secured creditors but it is still closer to the U.K. system.
In the United States, creditors and owners can negotiate
“violations” to the “absolute priority rule”—this “rule”
holds that more senior creditors must be paid in full,
prior to any payments to more junior creditors or to
owners. (However, the so-called “violations” to absolute
priority have empirically been shown to be relatively
small, e.g., under 10 percent of firm value.) Finally, the
U.S. system gives the court the right to sanction post-
petition debt financing, usually with super-priority status
over existing claims, thereby facilitating the continuing
operation of the firm. Recently, France has had similar
successful experience.
A measure of performance of the U.S. bankruptcy
system is the proportion of firms which emerge success-
fully. The results in the United States of late are
somewhat mixed, with close to 70 percent of large firms
emerging but probably less than 20 percent of smaller
entities. And, a not insignificant number of firms suffer
subsequent distress and may file again (Chapter 22).
Regardless of the location, one of the objectives of
bankruptcy and other distressed workout arrangements is
that creditors and other suppliers of capital clearly know
their rights and expected recoveries in the event of a
distressed situation. When these are not transparent
and/or are based on outdated processes with arbitrary and
possibly corrupt outcomes, then the entire economic
system suffers and growth is inhibited. Such is the case
in several emerging market countries. Revision of these
outdated systems should be a priority.
In addition to the comparative benefits of different
national restructuring systems, a number of intriguing
theoretical and empirical issues are related to the
distressed firm. Among these are corporate debt capacity,
manager-creditor-owner incentives, ability to predict
distress, data and computations for default rate estima-
tion, investment in securities of distressed firms and
post-reorganization performance assessment.
Corporate distress has a major impact on
creditor/debtor relationships and, combined with
business risk and tax considerations, affects the capital
structure of companies. One key question is how costly
are the expected distress costs compared to the
expected tax benefits of using leverage—the so-called
trade-off theory. Most analysts agree that the sum of
direct (e.g., legal fees) and indirect costs is in the range
of 10–20 percent of firm value.
Whether the taking of excess risk and over-investment
are examples of agency conflicts between managers and
creditors rests upon one’s view as to who are the true
residual owners of a distressed firm—the existing equity-
holders or creditors who will more than likely be the new
owners of a reorganized entity. Existing management has
the exclusive right to file the first plan of reorganization
within 120 days of filing, with exclusivity extensions
possible. Their incentives and influence can be biased,
however, and not always in accord with other stake-
holders, primarily creditors. Limiting this exclusivity
would appear to be desirable to speed up the process and
restrict managerial abuse.
Distress prediction models have intrigued
researchers and practitioners for more than 50 years.
Models have evolved from univariate financial
statement ratios to multivariate statistical classification
models, to contingent claim and market value based
approaches and finally to using artificial intelligence
techniques. Most large financial institutions have one or
more of the above types of models in place as more
sophisticated credit-risk management frameworks are
being introduced, sometimes combined with aggressive
credit asset portfolio strategies. Increasingly, private
credit assets are being treated as securities with
estimates of default and recovery given default the
critical inputs to their valuation.
Perhaps the most intriguing by-product of corporate
distress is the development of a relatively new class of
investors known as “vultures.” These money managers
specialize in securities of distressed and defaulted
companies. Defaulted bonds have had a small following
ever since the great depression of the 1930s but this has
grown to 50–60 institutional “vulture” specialists,
actively managing over $25 billion in 1998. Distressed
debt investors have target annual rates of return of 20–25
percent. Although these annual rates are sometimes
earned, the overall annual rate of return from 1978–1997
has been about 12 percent—similar to high yield bonds
but much below returns in the stock market.
*Max L. Heine Professor of Finance, NYU Stern School of
Business.
(continued)

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
867
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Bankruptcy Reorganization
Corporate reorganization takes place under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Reform
Act of 1978. The general objective of a proceeding under Chapter 11 is to plan to restruc-
ture the corporation with some provision for repayment of creditors. A typical sequence of
events follows:
1. A voluntary petition can be filed by the corporation, or an involuntary petition can be
filed by three or more creditors (or one creditor if the total creditors are fewer than 12—
see the previous section). The involuntary petition must allege that the corporation is not
paying its debts.
2. A federal judge either approves or denies the petition. If the petition is approved, a time
for filing proofs of claims of creditors and of shareholders is set.
3. In most cases, the corporation (the “debtor in possession”) continues to run the business.
4. The corporation is given 120 days to submit a reorganization plan.
5. Creditors and shareholders are divided into classes. A class of creditors accepts the plan
if two-thirds of the class (in dollar amount) and one-half of the class (in number) have
indicated approval.6
6. After acceptance by creditors, the plan is confirmed by the court.
7. Payments in cash, property, and securities are made to creditors and shareholders. The
plan may provide for the issuance of new securities.
EXAMPLE
Suppose B. O. Drug Co. decides to reorganize under Chapter 11. Generally, sen-
ior claims are honored in full before various other claims receive anything. As-
sume that the “going concern” value of B. O. Drug Co. is $3 million and that its
balance sheet is as shown:
Assets
$3,000,000
Liabilities
Mortgage bonds
1,500,000
Subordinated debentures
2,500,000
Stockholders’ equity
1,000,000
The firm has proposed the following reorganization plan:
New Claim with
Old Security
Old Claim
Reorganization Plan
Mortgage bonds
$1,500,000
$1,500,000
Subordinated debentures
2,500,000
1,000,000
and a distribution of new securities under a new claim with a reorganization plan:
862
Part VIII
Special Topics
6We are describing the standard events in a bankruptcy reorganization. The general rule is that a reorganization
plan will be accepted by the court if all of the creditor class accept it and it will be rejected if all of the creditor
class reject it. However, if one or more (but not all) of the classes accept it, the plan may be eligible for a “cram
down” procedure. A cram down takes place if the bankruptcy court finds a plan fair and equitable and accepts
the plan for all creditors.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
868
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Old Security
Received under Proposed Reorganization Plan
Mortgage bonds
$1,000,000 in 9% senior debentures
$500,000 in 11% subordinated debentures
Debentures
$1,000,000 in 8% preferred stock
$500,000 in common stock
However, it will be very difficult for the firm to convince secured creditors (mort-
gage bonds) to consent to accepting unsecured debentures of equal face value. In
addition, the corporation may wish to allow the old stockholders to retain some
participation in the firm. Needless to say, this would be a violation of the absolute
priority rule and the holders of the debentures would not be happy.
• What is bankruptcy?
• What is the difference between liquidation and reorganization?
31.4 PRIVATE WORKOUT OR BANKRUPTCY: WHICH IS BEST?
A firm that defaults on its debt payments will need to restructure its financial claims.The
firm will have two choices: formal bankruptcy or private workout. The previous section
described two types of formal bankruptcies: bankruptcy liquidation and bankruptcy reor-
ganization. This section compares private workouts with bankruptcy reorganizations. Both
types of financial restructuring involve exchanging new financial claims for old financial
Chapter 31
Financial Distress
863
ABSOLUTE PRIORITY RULE
The absolute priority rule states that senior claims are fully satisfied before junior claims
receive anything.
Deviation from Rule
Equityholders
Expectation: No payout
Reality: Payout in 81 percent of cases
Unsecured creditors
Expectation: Full payout after secured creditors
Reality: Violation in 78 percent of cases
Secured creditors
Expectation: Full payout
Reality: Full payout in 92 percent of cases
Reasons for Violations
Creditors want to avoid the expense of litigation. Debtors are given a 120-day opportunity to
cause delay and harm value.
Managers often own equity and demand to be compensated.
Bankruptcy judges like consensual plans and pressure parties to compromise.
Source: Lawrence A. Weiss, “Bankruptcy Resolution: Direct Costs and Violation of Priority of
Claims,” Journal of Financial Economics 27 (1990).
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
869
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
claims. Usually senior debt is replaced with junior debt and debt is replaced with equity.
Much recent academic research has described what happens in private workouts and formal
bankruptcies.7
• Historically, one-half of financial restructurings have been private but, recently, for-
mal bankruptcy has dominated.
• Firms that emerge from private workouts experience stock-price increases that are
much greater than those for firms emerging from formal bankruptcies.
• The direct costs of private workouts are much less than the costs of formal 
bankruptcies.
• Top management usually loses pay and sometimes jobs in both private workouts and
formal bankruptcies.
These facts, when taken together, seem to suggest that a private workout is much bet-
ter than a formal bankruptcy. We then ask the question: Why do firms ever use formal bank-
ruptcies to restructure?
The Marginal Firm
For the average firm a formal bankruptcy is more costly than a private workout, but for other
firms formal bankruptcy is better. Formal bankruptcy allows firms to issue debt that is sen-
ior to all previously incurred debt. This new debt is “debtor in possession” (DIP) debt. For
firms that need a temporary injection of cash, DIP debt makes bankruptcy reorganization
an attractive alternative to a private workout. There are some tax advantages to bankruptcy.
Firms do not lose tax carryforwards in bankruptcy, and the tax treatment of the cancellation
of indebtness is better in bankruptcy. Also, interest on prebankruptcy unsecured debt stops
accruing in formal bankruptcy.
Holdouts
Bankruptcy is usually better for the equity investors than it is for the creditors. Using DIP
debt and stopping prebankruptcy interest on unsecured debt helps the stockholders and
hurts the creditors. As a consequence, equity investors can usually hold out for a better deal
in bankruptcy. The absolute priority rule, which favors creditors over equity investors, is
usually violated in formal bankruptcies. One recent study found that in 81 percent of recent
bankruptcies the equity investor obtained some compensation.8 Under Chapter 11 the cred-
itors are often forced to give up some of their seniority rights to get management and the
equity investors to agree to a deal.
864
Part VIII
Special Topics
7For example, see Stuart Gilson, “Managing Default: Some Evidence on How Firms Choose between Workouts
and Bankruptcy,” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance (Summer 1991); and Stuart C. Gilson, Kose John, and
Larry N. P. Lang, “Troubled Debt Restructuring: An Empirical Study of Private Reorganization of Firms in
Defaults,” Journal of Financial Economics 27 (1990).
8Lawrence A. Weiss, “Bankruptcy Dissolution: Direct Costs and Violation of Priority and Claims,” Journal of
Financial Economics 23 (1990). However, W. Beranek, R. Boehmer, and B. Smith, in “Much Ado about
Nothing: Absolute Priority Deviations in Chapter 11,” Financial Management (Autumn 1996), find 33.8 percent
of bankruptcy reorganizations leave the stockholders with nothing. They also point out deviations from the
absolute priority rule are to be expected because the bankruptcy code allows creditors to waive their rights if
they perceive a waiver to be in their best interests. A rejoinder can be found in Allan C. Eberhart and Lawrence
A. Weiss, “The Importance of Deviations from the Absolute Priority Rule in Chapter 11 Bankruptcy
Proceedings,” Financial Management 27 (1998).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
870
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Complexity
A firm with a complicated capital structure will have more trouble putting together a pri-
vate workout. Firms with secured creditors and trade creditors such as Macy’s and Carter
Hale will usually use formal bankruptcy because it is too hard to reach an agreement with
many different types of creditors.
Lack of Information
There is an inherent conflict of interest between equity investors and creditors, and the con-
flict is accentuated when both have incomplete information about the circumstances of fi-
nancial distress. When a firm initially experiences a cash flow shortfall, it may not know
whether the shortfall is permanent or temporary. If the shortfall is permanent, creditors will
push for a formal reorganization or liquidation. However, if the cash flow shortfall is tem-
porary, formal reorganization or liquidation may not be necessary. Equity investors will
push for this viewpoint. This conflict of interest cannot easily be resolved.
These last two points are especially important. They suggest that financial distress will
be more expensive (cheaper) if complexity is high (low) and information is incomplete
(complete). Complexity and lack of information make cheap workouts less likely.
• What are two ways a firm can restructure its finances?
• Why do firms use formal bankruptcy?
31.5 PREPACKAGED BANKRUPTCY9
On October 1, 1986, the Crystal Oil Company filed for protection from its creditors under
Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Given the firm’s heavy indebtedness, perhaps the
outcome was not very surprising. However, less than three months later Crystal Oil came
out of bankruptcy with a different capital structure. This surprised many people because,
traditionally, bankruptcy has been very costly and often takes many years to emerge from.
Crystal Oil avoided a lengthy bankruptcy by negotiating a reorganization plan with its cred-
itors several months before the bankruptcy filing date.
This new reorganization arrangement has been called prepackaged bankruptcy.
Table 31.2 lists several recent prepackaged bankruptcies of large firms. Prepackaged bank-
ruptcy is a combination of private workout and legal bankruptcy. In prepackaged bank-
ruptcy the firm and most of its creditors agree to private reorganization outside formal
bankruptcy. After the private reorganization is put together (i.e., prepackaged), the firm
files a formal bankruptcy under Chapter 11.
Prepackaged bankruptcy arrangements require that most creditors reach agreement pri-
vately. Prepackaged bankruptcy doesn’t seem to work when there are thousands of reluctant
trade creditors, such as in the case of a retail trading firm like Macy’s and Revco D. S.10
Chapter 31
Financial Distress
865
9John McConnell and Henri Servaes “The Economics of Pre-packaged Bankruptcy,” Journal of Applied
Corporate Finance (Summer 1991), describe prepackaged bankruptcy and the Crystal Oil Company.
10S. Chattergee, U. S. Dhillon, and G. G. Ramirez, in “Prepackaged Bankruptcies and Workouts,” Financial
Management (Spring 1996), find that firms using prepackaged bankruptcy arrangements are smaller, in better
financial shape, and have greater short-term liquidity problems than firms using private workouts or Chapter 11.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
871
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The main benefit of prepackaged bankruptcy is that it forces holdouts to accept a bank-
ruptcy reorganization. If a large fraction of a firm’s creditors can agree privately to a reor-
ganization plan, the holdout problem may be avoided. It makes a reorganization plan in
formal bankruptcy easier to put together.11
A recent study by McConnell, Lease, and Tashjian reports that prepackaged bankrupt-
cies offer many of the advantages of a formal bankruptcy, but they are also more efficient.
Their results suggest that the time spent and the direct costs of resolving financial distress
are less in a prepackaged bankruptcy than in a formal bankruptcy.12
• What is prepackaged bankruptcy?
• What is the main benefit of prepackaged bankruptcy?
CASE STUDY:
The Decision to File for Bankruptcy: The Case of Revco13
R
evco D. S. has a special place in the history of finance. It was both one of the largest leveraged
buyouts and one of the largest bankruptcies in U.S. financial history.
In July 1988, Revco filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. At the
time of its bankruptcy it was one of the largest retail drugstore chains in the United States. Revco’s
bankruptcy came at the end of four very turbulent years.
Up to 1984 the shareholders of Revco had reason to be pleased with its operating results. By
1984 Revco was operating approximately 2,000 stores in 30 states. Its gross profit margins averaged
close to 7 percent. From 1971 to 1984 Revco had grown in sales and profits in excess of 20 percent
per annum. In January 1984, its stock traded at an all-time high of $37.50. Revco’s financial difficulty
began in the spring of 1984.14
1. In April 1984,E-Ferol,a vitamin product manufactured by a Revco subsidiary,was allegedly linked
to 38 infant deaths and was recalled.
866
Part VIII
Special Topics
I TABLE 31.2 Recent Prepackaged Bankruptcies of Large U.S. Firms
Firm
Business
Filing Dates
Approved Date
TWA
Air transport
July 3, 1995
August 23, 1995
Memorex Telex
Computer equipment
January 6, 1992
February 7, 1992
Taj Mahal
Casino
August 8, 1991
October 4, 1991
JPS Textiles
Textiles
February 7, 1991
March 21, 1991
Southland
7-11 convenience stores
October 24, 1990
March 5, 1991
11The original reorganization plan of Crystal Oil was accepted by the public creditors, but it was not accepted
by the secured creditors. During bankruptcy a slightly revised plan was “crammed down” on the secured
creditors. A bankruptcy court can force creditors to participate in a reorganization if it can be shown that the
plan is “fair and equitable.”
12John J. McConnell, Ronald Lease, and Elizabeth Tashjian, “Prepacks as a Mechanism for Resolving Financial
Distress: The Evidence,” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance 8 (1996).
13See Karen H. Wruck, “What Really Went Wrong at Revco,” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance (Summer
1991), pp. 71–92. This article contains an excellent description of the troubles of Revco.
14Stephen Phillips, “Revco, Anatomy of an LBO That Failed,” Business Week (October 3, 1988), describes the
troubles of Revco.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
872
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
2. In May 1984, Revco acquired Odd Lot Trading, Inc., for over $100 million of Revco common
stock.The acquisition gave Barnard Marden and Isaac Perlmutter,owners of Odd Lot Trading,12
percent ownership in Revco. However, Perlmutter and Marden were not passive investors, and
they had many new ideas for “improving” Revco. Eventually, hostility broke out between Perl-
mutter and Marden and Stanley Dworkin, the CEO of Revco.
3. In 1985 Revco’s competitors, Rite-Aid and Eckerd, adopted aggressive pricing tactics in an at-
tempt to gain market share.
4. In July 1985, Revco bought out Marden’s and Perlmutter’s stakes in Revco for $98 million.
5. On December 29, 1986, Revco announced a leveraged buyout (LBO) with a private investor
group.Because of the LBO,Revco’s long-term debt increased from $44.7 million in 1985 to over
$700 million after the LBO in 1986. Eventually, its total debt rose to $1.3 billion, and, in April
1988, Revco announced that it could not make the interest payment on its subordinated notes.
6. In March 1987, Revco decided to change its strategic orientation. Instead of “everyday low
prices” on a narrow product line,Revco expanded its product line to include TVs,furniture,and
appliances, and used selective promotions.
7. The new strategic orientation did not work, and Revco generated large losses in 1987.
8. In July 1988, Revco filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code.
9. Four years later, Revco emerged from bankruptcy.
10. On June 2, 1997, Revco was merged into CVS in a $2.9 billion stock swap, making CVS the sec-
ond largest drugstore chain in the United States. It was reported that CVS would close Revco’s
headquarters in Twinsburg, Ohio, and reduce costs by eliminating redundant corporate offices
and outlets.
Why did Revco file for formal bankruptcy instead of private restructuring?  What were the costs
of the Revco bankruptcy? There are no easy answers to these questions.
1. The Direct Costs of Bankruptcy. Formal bankruptcy can be expensive and time-consuming. Revco
was in Chapter 11 bankruptcy for almost four years and paid out over $40.5 million in direct
bankruptcy costs (2.7 percent of the buyout price).15 Below are some of the direct bankruptcy
fees (in millions).
Law firms
Baker & Hostetler
$ 7.5
Fried Frank
3.2
Accounting firms
Arthur Andersen
7.4
Ernst & Young
4.2
Investment bankers
Lazard Freres
3.5
Other
14.3
$40.5
2. The Indirect Costs of Financial Distress.There are many indirect costs of financial distress, including
management distractions, loss of customers, and loss of reputation.The indirect costs of financial
distress may occur whether or not formal bankruptcy is declared. In the case of Revco, financial
distress caused a costly change in management and strategic direction.
3. The Costs of a Complicated Financial Structure. Firms such as Revco that have bank loans,senior sub-
ordinated debt, and junior subordinated debt will have a very hard time getting all claimholders
to agree to an out-of-court settlement.For a retailer like Revco private agreements are especially
difficult because of the large number of trade creditors.It is axiomatic that the more complicated
a firm’s financial structure, the more difficult it will be to work out private arrangements to avoid
bankruptcy. Conflicts between managers, shareholders, and creditors make reaching a private
agreement difficult.There is a natural tendency for each group to try to gain value at the expense
of the others.
Chapter 31
Financial Distress
867
15George Anders, “Revco Saga: On How the Buy Out Bonanza Became a Frenzy of Fees in Chapter 11,” The
Wall Street Journal (May 16, 1991).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
873
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
• Why did it take Revco D. S. so long to emerge from bankruptcy?
• What are some of the costs of the Revco D. S. bankruptcy?
31.6 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
This chapter examines what happens when firms experience financial distress.
1. Financial distress is a situation where a firm’s operating cash flow is not sufficient to cover
contractual obligations. Financially distressed firms are often forced to take corrective action
and undergo financial restructuring. Financial restructuring involves exchanging new
financial claims for old ones.
2. Financial restructuring can be accomplished with a private workout or formal bankruptcy.
Financial restructuring can involve liquidation or reorganization. However, liquidation is not
common.
3. Corporate bankruptcy involves Chapter 7 liquidation or Chapter 11 reorganization. An
essential feature of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code is the absolute priority rule. The absolute
priority rule states that senior creditors are paid in full before junior creditors receive
anything. However, in practice the absolute priority rule is often violated.
4. A new form of financial restructuring is prepackaged bankruptcy. It is a hybrid of a private
workout and formal bankruptcy.
5. One of the most well-known bankruptcies involved Revco D. S. Revco’s bankruptcy was
long and costly. The main reason was Revco’s complicated financial structure, which made
agreement among creditors very difficult.
KEY TERMS
Absolute priority rule
859
Prepackaged bankruptcy
865
Financial distress
854
Private workout
863
Liquidation
858
Reorganization
858
SUGGESTED READINGS
An excellent book on financial distress by one of the leading authorities is
Altman, Edward I. Corporate Financial Distress: A Complete Guide to Predicting, Avoiding and
Dealing with Bankruptcy (New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1983).
Many recent academic articles on financial distress can be found in
Jenson, Michael, and Richard Rubeck, eds. “Symposium on the Structure and Governance of
Enterprise Part II.” Journal of Financial Economics 27 (1990). Articles by Lawrence Weiss,
Stuart G. Gilson, Kose John, Larry N. P. Lang, Steven Kaplan, David Reishus, Frank
Easterbrook, and Karen H. Wruck appear.
Senbet, L., and James Seward. “Financial Distress, Bankruptcy and Reorganization.” Chapter
28 in Handbooks in OR and MS, Vol. 9, R. A. Jarrow, V. Maksimovic, and W. T. Ziembe,
eds. (1995).
868
Part VIII
Special Topics
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
874
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Financial Distress?
31.1 Define financial distress using the stock-based and flow-based approaches.
31.2 What are some benefits of financial distress?
Bankruptcy Liquidation and Reorganization
31.3 When the Beacon Computer Company (BCC) filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 7 of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code, it had the following balance sheet:
Liquidating Value
Claims
Net realizable assets
$5,000
Trade credit
$1,000
Secured notes (by a mortgage)
1,000
Senior debenture
3,000
Junior debenture
1,000
Equity
(1,000)
As trustee, what distribution of liquidating value do you propose?
31.4 When the Master Printing Company filed for bankruptcy, it filed under Chapter 11 of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Its balance sheet is shown below:
Assets
Claims
Going concern value
$15,000
Mortgage bonds
$10,000
Senior debenture
6,000
Junior debenture
4,000
Equity
(5,000)
As trustee, what reorganization plan would you accept?
Private Workout or Bankruptcy: Which Is Best?
31.5 Explain the following two terms.
a. APR
b. DIP
31.6 Why do so many firms file for legal bankruptcy when private workouts are so much less
expensive?
Appendix 31A PREDICTING CORPORATE BANKRUPTCY: 
THE Z-SCORE MODEL16
Many potential lenders use credit scoring models to assess the creditworthiness of prospec-
tive borrowers. The general idea is to find factors that enable the lenders to discriminate be-
tween good and bad credit risks. To put it more precisely, lenders want to identify attributes
of the borrower that can be used to predict default or bankruptcy.
Chapter 31
Financial Distress
869
16Edward I. Altman, Corporate Financial Distress and Bankruptcy, John Wiley & Sons, N.Y. (1993), Chapter 3.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
875
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Edward Altman has developed a model using financial statement ratios and multiple
discriminant analyses to predict bankruptcy for publicly traded manufacturing firms. The
resultant model is of the form:
where Z is an index of bankruptcy.
A score of Z less than 2.675 indicates that a firm has a 95 percent chance of becoming
bankrupt within one year. However, Altman’s results show that in practice the area between
1.81 and 2.99 should be thought of as a gray area. In actual use, bankruptcy would be predicted
if Z  1.81 and nonbankruptcy if Z  2.99. Altman shows that bankrupt firms and nonbank-
rupt firms have very different financial profiles one year before bankruptcy. These different fi-
nancial profits are the key intuition behind the Z-score model and are depicted in Table 31A.1.
Altman’s original Z-score model requires a firm to have publicly traded equity and be
a manufacturer. He uses a revised model to make it applicable for private firms and non-
manufacturers. The resulting model is
where
Z 
 1.23 indicates a bankruptcy prediction,
1.23  Z  2.90 indicates a gray area,
and
Z  2.90 indicates no bankruptcy.
EXAMPLE
The U.S. Composite Corporation is attempting to increase its line of credit with the
First National State Bank. The director of credit management of First National State
Bank uses the Z-score model to determine creditworthiness. The U.S. Composite Cor-
poration is not a publicly traded firm so that the revised Z-score model must be used.
The balance sheet and income statement of the U.S. Composite Corporation
are in Tables 2.1 and 2.2 (Chapter 2).
The first step is to determine the value of each of the financial statement vari-
ables and in the revised Z-score model.
(in millions)

0.146

0.208

0.117

1.369
 805
588
 Book value of equity
Total liabilities
 219
1,879
 
EBIT
Total assets
 390
1,879
 Accumulated retained earnings
Total assets
 275
1,879
 Net working capital
Total assets
 1.05 
EBIT
Total assets  6.72 Book value of equity
Total liabilities
Z  6.56 Net working capital
Total assets
 3.26 Accumulated retained earnings
Total assets
 1.4 Accumulated retained earnings
Total assets
 1.0 
Sales
Total assets   .6 Market value of equity
Book value of debt
Z  3.3 
EBIT
Total assets  1.2 Net working capital
Total assets
870
Part VIII
Special Topics

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
31. Financial Distress
876
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The next step to calculate the revised Z-score is
Z  6.56  0.146  3.26  0.208
1.05  0.117  6.72  1.369
 10.96
Finally, we determine that the Z-score is above 2.9, and we conclude that U.S.
Composite is a good credit risk.
Chapter 31
Financial Distress
871
I TABLE 31A.1 Financial Statement Ratios One Year before
Bankruptcy: Manufacturing Firms
Average Ratios One Year before
Bankruptcy of
Bankrupt Firms
Nonbankrupt Firms
6.1%
41.4%
62.6%
35.5%
31.8%
15.4%
40.1%
247.7%
150%
190%
Source: Edward I. Altman, Corporate Financial Distress and Bankruptcy, John Wiley & Sons (1993), Table 3.1,
p. 109.
Sales
Assets
Market value of equity
Total liabilities
EBIT
Total assets
Accumulated retained earnings
Total assets
Net working capital
Total assets

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
877
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
International 
Corporate Finance
CHAPTER 32
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
C
orporations that have significant foreign operations are often referred to as interna-
tional corporations or multinationals. Table 32.1 lists the largest international cor-
porations using several different measures. There are many familiar names on this
list. International corporations must consider many financial factors that do not directly af-
fect purely domestic firms. These include foreign exchange rates, different interest rates
from country to country, complex accounting methods for foreign operations, foreign tax
rates, and foreign government intervention.
The basic principles of corporate finance still apply to international corporations;
like domestic companies, they seek to invest in projects that create more value for the
shareholders than they cost and to arrange financing that raises cash at the lowest pos-
sible cost. That is, the net present value principle holds for both foreign and domestic
operations. However, it is usually more complicated to apply the NPV principle to for-
eign operations.
Perhaps the most important complication of international finance is foreign exchange.
The foreign exchange markets provide information and opportunities for an international
corporation when it undertakes capital-budgeting and financing decisions. The relationship
among foreign exchange, interest rates, and inflation is defined by the basic theories of ex-
change rates: purchasing-power parity, interest-rate parity, and the expectations theory.
Typically, international financing decisions involve a choice of three basic approaches:
1. Export domestic cash to the foreign operations.
2. Borrow in the country where the investment is located.
3. Borrow in a third country.
We discuss the merits of each approach.
32.1 TERMINOLOGY
A common buzzword for the student of finance is globalization. The first step in learning
about the globalization of financial markets is to conquer the new vocabulary. Here are
some of the most common terms used in international finance and in this chapter:
1. An American Depository Receipt (ADR) is a security issued in the United States to rep-
resent shares of a foreign stock, allowing that stock to be traded in the United States. For-
eign companies use ADRs, which are issued in U.S. dollars, to expand the pool of poten-
tial U.S. investors. ADRs are available in two forms for about 690 foreign companies:

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
878
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
company-sponsored, which are listed on an exchange, and unsponsored, which are usually
held by the investment bank that makes a market in the ADR. Both forms are available to
individual investors, but only company-sponsored issues are quoted daily in newspapers.
2. The cross rate is the exchange rate between two foreign currencies, generally neither of
which is the U.S. dollar. The dollar, however, is used as an interim step in determining
the cross rate. For example, if an investor wants to sell Japanese yen and buy Swiss
francs, he would sell yen against dollars and then buy francs with those dollars. So, al-
though the transaction is designed to be yen for francs, the dollar’s exchange rate serves
as a benchmark.
3. A European Currency Unit (ECU) is a basket of 10 European currencies devised in
1979 and intended to serve as a monetary unit for the European Monetary System
(EMS). By charter, EMS members reevaluate the composition of the ECU every five
years or when there has been a shift of 25 percent or more in the weight of any currency.
The German deutschemark is the most heavily weighted currency in the basket, with the
French franc, the British pound, and the Dutch guilder each comprising more than 10
percent of the currency. The smallest weights are the Greek drachma, the Luxembourg
franc, and the Irish punt.
4. Eurobonds are bonds denominated in a particular currency and issued simultaneously
in the bond markets of several European countries. For many international companies
and governments, they have become an important way to raise capital. Eurobonds are is-
sued outside the restrictions that apply to domestic offerings and are typically syndicated
in London. Trading can and does take place anywhere a buyer and a seller are.
5. Eurocurrency is money deposited in a financial center outside of the country whose
currency is involved. For instance, Eurodollars—the most widely used Eurocurrency—
are U.S. dollars deposited in banks outside the United States.
Chapter 32
International Corporate Finance
873
I TABLE 32.1 The Top International Corporations
Foreign
Foreign
Foreign
Assets as 
Sales as 
Employment
Company
Industry
% of Total
% of Total
as % of Total
Royal Dutch/Shell
Energy
67.8
73.3
77.9
Ford
Automotive
29.0
30.6
29.8
General Electric
Electronics
30.4
24.4
32.4
Exxon
Energy
73.1
79.6
53.7
General Motors
Automotive
24.9
29.2
33.9
Volkswagen
Automotive
84.8
60.8
44.4
IBM
Computers
51.9
62.7
50.1
Toyota
Automotive
30.5
45.1
23.0
Nestlé
Food
86.9
98.2
97.0
Bayer
Chemicals
89.8
63.3
54.6
ABB
Electrical equipment
84.7
87.2
93.9
Nissan
Automotive
42.7
44.2
43.5
Elf Aquitaine
Energy
54.5
65.4
47.5
Mobil
Energy
61.8
65.9
52.2
Daimler-Benz
Automotive
39.2
63.2
22.2
Source: The Economist, November 22, 1997, p. 92.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
879
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
6. Foreign bonds, unlike Eurobonds, are issued by foreign borrowers in another nation’s
capital market and traditionally denominated in that nation’s currency. Yankee bonds, for
example, are issued in the United States by a foreign country, bank, or company; in re-
cent years, however, some Yankee offerings have been denominated in currencies other
than the U.S. dollar. Often the country in which these bonds are issued will draw dis-
tinctions between them and bonds issued by domestic issuers, including different tax
laws, restrictions on the amount of issues, or tougher disclosure rules.
Foreign bonds often are nicknamed for the country of issuance: Yankee bonds
(United States), Samurai bonds (Japan), Rembrandt bonds (the Netherlands), and Bull-
dog bonds (Britain). Partly because of tougher regulations and disclosure requirements,
the foreign-bond market hasn’t grown in the past several years with the vigor of the Eu-
robond market. Nearly half of all foreign bonds are issued in Switzerland.
7. Gilts, technically, are British and Irish government securities, although the term also in-
cludes issues of local British authorities and some overseas public-sector offerings.
8. The London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) is the rate that most international
banks charge one another for loans of Eurodollars overnight in the London market.
LIBOR is a cornerstone in the pricing of money-market issues and other short-term
debt issues by both governments and corporate borrowers. Less creditworthy issuers
will often borrow at a rate of more than one point over LIBOR.
9. There are two basic kinds of swaps: interest rate and currency. An interest-rate swap oc-
curs when two parties exchange debt with a floating-rate payment for debt with a fixed-
rate payment, or vice versa. Currency swaps are agreements to deliver one currency
against another currency. Often both types of swaps are used in the same transaction
when debt denominated in different currencies is swapped.
• What is the difference between a Eurobond and a foreign bond?
32.2 FOREIGN EXCHANGE MARKETS AND EXCHANGE RATES
The foreign exchange market is undoubtedly the world’s largest financial market. It is the
market where one country’s currency is traded for another’s. Most of the trading takes place
in a few currencies: the U.S. dollar ($), German deutschemark (DM), British pound sterling
(£), Japanese yen (¥), Swiss franc (SF), and French franc (FF).
The foreign exchange market is an over-the-counter market. There is no single location
where traders get together. Instead, traders are located in the major commercial and invest-
ment banks around the world. They communicate using computer terminals, telephones,
and other telecommunication devices. One element in the communications network for for-
eign transactions is the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications
(SWIFT). It is a Belgian not-for-profit cooperative. A bank in New York can send messages
to a bank in London via SWIFT’s regional processing centers. The connections are through
data-transmission lines.
The many different types of participants in the foreign exchange market include the
following:
1. Importers who convert their domestic currency to foreign currency to pay for goods from
foreign countries.
874
Part VIII
Special Topics
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
880
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
2. Exporters who receive foreign currency and may want to convert to the domestic currency.
3. Portfolio managers who buy and sell foreign stocks and bonds.
4. Foreign exchange brokers who match buy and sell orders.
5. Traders who make the market in foreign exchange.
Exchange Rates
An exchange rate is the price of one country’s currency for another’s. In practice, almost
all trading of currencies takes place in terms of the U.S. dollar. For example, both the Ger-
man deutschemark and the British pound will be traded with their price quoted in U.S. dol-
lars. If the quoted price is the price in dollars of a unit of foreign exchange, the quotation is
said to be in direct (or American) terms. For example, $1.50  £1 and $0.40  DM1 are in
direct terms. The financial press frequently quotes the foreign currency price of a U.S. dol-
lar. If the quoted price is the foreign currency price of a U.S. dollar, the quotation is indi-
rect (or European). For example, £0.67  $1 and DM2.5  $1.
EXAMPLE
In 1984, Japan’s economic growth and low inflation began to increase the demand
for the yen compared to the dollar. Large U.S. trade deficits in the 1980s and 1990s
contributed to this tendency. Figure 32.1 plots the Japanese yen value of a U.S.
dollar from 1980 to 1998. The strong U.S. economy in the mid–1990s caused a
dollar rebound.
Chapter 32
International Corporate Finance
875
300
1980
250
200
150
100
50
0
1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
Year
I FIGURE 32.1 Japanese Yen Price of a U.S. Dollar from 1980 to 2000
Source: Various issues of the Los Angeles Times and The Wall Street Journal.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
881
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
There are two reasons for quoting all foreign currencies in terms of the U.S. dollar.
First, it reduces the number of possible cross-currency quotes. For example, with five ma-
jor currencies, there would potentially be 10 exchange rates. Second, it makes triangular
arbitrage more difficult. If all currencies were traded against each other, it would make in-
consistencies more likely. That is, the exchange rate of the French franc against the
deutschemark would be compared to the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the
deutschemark. This implies a particular rate between the French franc and the U.S. dollar
to prevent triangular arbitrage.
EXAMPLE
What if the pound traded for DM4 in Frankfurt and $1.60 in London? If the dol-
lar traded for DM2 in Frankfurt, the trader would have a triangular opportunity.
Starting with $1.60, a trader could purchase £1 in London. This pound could then
be used to buy DM4 in Frankfurt. With the dollar trading at DM2, the DM4 could
then be traded for $2 in Frankfurt as illustrated in Figure 32.2. The net gain from
going around this “triangle” would be $2.00  $1.60  $0.40. Imagine what the
return would be on an initial $1 billion purchase.
Types of Transactions
Three types of trades take place in the foreign exchange market: spot, forward, and swap.
Spot trades involve an agreement on the exchange rate today for settlement in two days.
The rate is called the spot-exchange rate. Forward trades involve an agreement on ex-
change rates today for settlement in the future. The rate is called the forward-exchange
rate. The maturities for forward trades are usually 1 to 52 weeks. A swap is the sale (pur-
chase) of a foreign currency with a simultaneous agreement to repurchase (resell) it some-
time in the future. The difference between the sale price and the repurchase price is called
the swap rate.
EXAMPLE
On October 11, bank A pays dollars to bank B’s account at a New York bank and
A receives pounds sterling in its account at a bank in London. On November 11,
as agreed to on October 11, the transaction is reversed. A pays the sterling back to
B, while B pays back the dollars to A. This is a swap. In effect, A has borrowed
pounds sterling while giving up the use of dollars to B.
876
Part VIII
Special Topics
$1.60 / £
DM2 / $
DM4 / £
I FIGURE 32.2 Triangular Arbitrage

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
882
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
32.3 THE LAW OF ONE PRICE AND PURCHASING-POWER
PARITY
What determines the level of the spot-exchange rate? One answer is the law of one price
(LOP). The law of one price says that a commodity will cost the same regardless of the
country in which it is purchased. More formally, let S£(t) be the spot-exchange rate, that is,
the number of dollars needed to purchase a British pound at time t.1 Let PUS(t) and PUK(t)
be the current U.S. and British prices of a particular commodity, say, apples. The law of one
price says that
PUS(t)  S£(t) PUK(t)
for apples.
The rationale behind LOP is similar to that of triangular arbitrage. If LOP did not hold,
arbitrage would be possible by moving apples from one country to another. For example,
suppose that apples in New York are selling for $4 per bushel, while in London the price is
£2.50 per bushel. Then the law of one price implies that
$4  S£(t)  £2.50
and
S£(t)  $1.60/£
That is, the LOP implied spot-exchange rate is $1.60 per pound.
Suppose instead that the actual exchange rate is $2.00 per pound. Starting with $4, a
trader could buy a bushel of apples in New York, ship it to London, and sell it there for
£2.50. The pounds sterling could then be converted into dollars at the exchange rate, $2/£,
yielding a total of $5 for $1 ($5  $4) gain.
The rationale of the LOP is that if the exchange rate is not $1.60/£ but is instead, say,
$2/£, then forces would be set in motion to change the rate and/or the price of apples. In our
example, there would be a whole lot of apples flying from New York to London. Thus, de-
mand for apples in New York would raise the dollar price for apples there, and the supply
in London would lower the pound-sterling price. The apple traders converting pounds ster-
ling into dollars, that is, supplying pounds sterling and demanding dollars, would also put
pressure on the exchange rate to fall from $2/£.
As you can see, for the LOP to be strictly true, three assumptions are needed:
1. The transactions cost of trading apples—shipping, insurance, wastage, and so on—must
be zero.
2. No barriers to trading apples, such as tariffs or taxes, can exist.
3. Finally, an apple in New York must be identical to an apple in London. It won’t do for
you to send red apples to London if the English eat only green apples.
Given the fact that the transaction costs are not zero and that the other conditions are
rarely exactly met, the LOP is really applicable only to traded goods, and then only to very
uniform ones. The LOP does not imply that a Mercedes costs the same as a Ford or that a
nuclear power plant in France costs the same as one in New York. In the case of the cars,
they are not identical. In the case of the power plants, even if they were identical, they are
expensive and very difficult to ship.
Chapter 32
International Corporate Finance
877
1Throughout this chapter, we quote foreign exchange in direct or American terms.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
883
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Because consumers purchase many goods, economists speak of purchasing-power
parity (PPP), the idea that the exchange rate adjusts so that a market basket of goods costs
the same, regardless of the country in which it is purchased. In addition, a relative version
of purchasing-power parity has evolved. Relative purchasing-power parity (RPPP) says
that the rate of change in the price level of commodities in one country relative to the rate
of change in the price level in another determines the rate of change of the exchange rate
between the two countries. Formally,


1  U.S.
1  Change in
1  British
inflation rate  foreign exchange rate  inflation rate
This states that the rate of inflation in the United States relative to that in Great Britain de-
termines the rate of change in the value of the dollar relative to that of the pound during
the interval t to t  1. It is common to write US as the rate of inflation in the United States.
1  US is equal to PUS(t  1)/PUS(t). Similarly, UK is the rate of inflation in Great
Britain. 1  UK is equal to PUK(t  1)/PUK(t).
Using  to represent the rate of inflation, the preceding equation can be rearranged as
(32.1)
We can rewrite this in an appropriate form as
where •S£/S£ now stands for the rate of change in the dollars-per-pound exchange rate.
As an example, suppose that inflation in France during the year is equal to 4 percent
and inflation in the United States is equal to 10 percent. Then, according to the RPPP, the
price of the French franc in terms of the U.S. dollar should rise; that is, the U.S. dollar de-
clines in value in terms of the French franc. Using our approximation, the dollars-per-franc
exchange rate should rise by
 10%  4%
 6%
where •SFF/SFF stands for the rate of change in the dollars-per-franc exchange rate. That is,
if the French franc is worth $0.20 at the beginning of the period, it should be worth ap-
proximately $0.212 ($0.20  1.06) at the end of the period.
The RPPP says that the change in the ratio of domestic commodity prices of two coun-
tries must be matched in the exchange rate. This version of the law of one price suggests that
to estimate changes in the spot rate of exchange, it is necessary to estimate the difference in
relative inflation rates. In other words, we can express our formula in expectational terms as
If we expect the U.S. inflation rate to exceed the French inflation rate, we should expect the
dollar price of French francs to rise, which is the same as saying that the dollar is expected
to fall against the franc.
E
•SFF
SFF  EUS  EF
•SFF
SFF
  US  F
US  UK 
•S£
S£
1  US
1  UK
 S£t  1
S£t
PUKt  1
PUKt
S£t  1
S£t
PUSt  1
PUSt
878
Part VIII
Special Topics

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
884
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
The more exact relationship of equation (32.1) can be expressed in expectational terms as
(32.2)
• What is the law of one price? What is purchasing-power parity?
• What is the relationship between inflation and exchange-rate movements?
32.4 INTEREST RATES AND EXCHANGE RATES: 
INTEREST-RATE PARITY
The forward-exchange rate and the spot-exchange rate are tied together by the same sort of
arbitrage that underlies the law of one price. First, here is some useful terminology. If forward-
exchange rates are greater than the spot-exchange rate in a particular currency, the forward
foreign currency is said to be at a premium (this implies the domestic currency is at a dis-
count). If the values of forward-exchange rates are less than the spot-exchange rate, the for-
ward rate of foreign currency is at a discount.
Suppose we observe that the spot DM rate is DM2.50  $1.00 and the one-month forward
DM is DM2.40  $1.00. Because fewer marks are needed to buy a dollar at the forward rate
than are needed to buy a dollar at the spot rate, the mark is more valuable in the forward market
than in the spot market. This means that the one-month forward DM is at a premium. Of course,
whatever we say for the mark must be the opposite of what we say for the dollar. In this exam-
ple, the dollar is at a discount because the forward value is less than the spot value. Forward ex-
change is quoted in terms of the premium or discount that is to be added onto the spot rate.
Whether forward rates are at a premium or a discount when compared to a domestic
currency depends on the relative interest rates in the foreign and domestic currency mar-
kets. The interest-rate–parity theorem implies that, if interest rates are higher domesti-
cally than in a particular foreign country, the foreign country’s currency will be selling at a
premium in the forward market; and if interest rates are lower domestically, the foreign cur-
rency will be selling at a discount in the forward market.
We need some notation to develop the interest-rate–parity theorem. Let S(0) be the cur-
rent domestic-currency price of spot foreign exchange (current time is denoted by 0). If the
domestic currency is the dollar and the foreign exchange is the deutschemark, we might ob-
serve S(0)  $0.40/DM. S(0) is in direct or U.S. terms. Let F(0,1) be the current domestic-
currency price of forward exchange for a contract that matures in one month. Thus, the con-
tract is for forward exchange one month hence. Let i and i* be the yearly rates of interest
paid on Eurocurrency deposits denominated in the domestic (i) and foreign (i*) currencies,
respectively. Of course, the maturity of the deposits can be chosen to coincide with the ma-
turity of the forward contract. Now consider a trader who has access to the interbank mar-
ket in foreign exchange and Eurocurrency deposits. Suppose the trader has some dollars to
invest for one month. The trader can make a dollar loan or a deutschemark loan. The annual
interest rate is 10 percent in deutschemarks and 6 percent in dollars. Which is better?
The Dollar Investment
Given an annual interest rate of 6 percent, the one-month rate of interest is 0.5 percent, ig-
noring compounding. If the trader invests $1 million now, the trader will get $1 million 
1.005  $1.005 million at the end of the month. Following is an illustration:
E1  US
E1  UK  ES£t  1
S£t
Chapter 32
International Corporate Finance
879
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
885
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Time 0
Time 1
Lend 1 unit of dollars
Obtain 1  i  (1/12) units of domestic currency
$1,000,000
$1,000,000  (1  0.005)  $1,005,000
The Deutschemark Investment
The current spot rate is $0.40/DM. This means the trader can currently obtain $1 mil-
lion/0.40  DM2.5 million. The rate of interest on one-year DM loans is 10 percent. For
one month, the interest rate is 0.10/12  0.0083. Thus, at the end of one month the trader
will obtain DM2.5 million  1.0083  DM2,520,750. Of course, if the trader wants dol-
lars at the end of the month, the trader must convert the deutschemarks back into dollars.
The trader can fix the exchange rate for one-month conversion. Suppose the one-month for-
ward is $0.39869/DM. Then the trader can sell deutschemarks forward. This will ensure
that the trader gets DM2,520,750  0.39869  $1.005 million at the end of the month. The
general relationships are set forth here:
Time 0
Time 1
Purchase 1 unit [1/S(0)]
Deposit matures and pays
of foreign exchange
[1/S(0)]  [1  i  (1/12)]
units of foreign exchange
DM2,500,000
DM2,500,000  1.0083  DM2,520,750
Sell forward
Deliver foreign exchange in fulfillment
[1/S(0)]  [1  i*  (1/12)]
of forward contract, receiving
units of forward exchange
at the forward rate F(0,1)
[1/S(0)]  [1  i*  (1/12)]  [F(0,1)]
DM2,500,000  1.0083  0.39869  $1,005,000
In our example, the investments earned exactly the same rate of return and 1  [i 
(1/12)]  [1/S(0)]  [1  i*  (1/12)]  [F(0,1)]. In competitive financial markets, this
must be true for risk-free investments. When the trader makes the deutschemark loan, he
or she gets a higher interest rate. But the return is the same because the deutschemark
must be sold forward at a lower price than it can be exchanged for initially. If the domestic
interest rate were different from the covered foreign interest rate, the trader would have
arbitrage opportunities.
To summarize, to prevent arbitrage possibilities from existing, we must have equality
of the U.S. interest rate and covered foreign interest rates:
or
(32.3)
The last equation is the famous interest-rate–parity theorem. It relates the forward-ex-
change rate and the spot-exchange rate to interest-rate differentials. Notice that, if i  i*,
the spot rate (expressed as dollars per unit of foreign currency) will be less than the for-
ward rate.
1  i
1  i*  F0,1
S0
1  i 
1
S0  1  i*   F0,1
880
Part VIII
Special Topics

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
886
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
Let the spot rate S(0)  $0.40/DM and the one-year forward rate F(0,1) 
$0.42/DM. Let the one-year rates on Eurodollar deposits and Euro-DM deposits
be, respectively, i  11.3% and i*  6%. Then, comparing the return on domes-
tic borrowing with the return on covered foreign lending,
$(1  i)  $(1  0.113)  $1.113
$[1/S(0)]  (1  i*)  F(0,1)  $(1/0.40)  (1  0.06)  $0.42  $1.113
For each dollar borrowed domestically, a trader must repay $1.113. The return
from using the $1.00 to buy spot foreign exchange, placing the deposit at the for-
eign rate of interest, and selling the total return forward would be $1.113. These
two amounts are equal, so it would not be worth anyone’s time to try to exploit the
difference. In this case, interest parity can be said to hold.
The Forward-Discount and Expected Spot Rates
A close connection exists between forward-exchange rates and expected spot rates. A
trader’s buy and sell decisions in today’s forward market are based on the trader’s mar-
ket expectation of the future spot rate. In fact, if traders were completely indifferent to
risk, the forward rate of exchange would depend solely on expectations about the fu-
ture spot rate. For example, suppose the one-year forward rate of deutschemarks is
$0.40/DM [that is, F(0,1)  $0.40/DM]. This must mean that traders expect the spot
rate to be $0.40/DM in one year [E(S(1))  $0.40/DM]. If they thought it would be
higher, it would create an arbitrage opportunity. Traders would buy deutschemarks for-
ward at the low price and sell deutschemarks one year later at the expected higher price.
This implies that the forward rate of exchange is equal to the expected spot, or (in gen-
eral terms)
F(0,1)  E[S(1)]
and
(32.4)
An equilibrium is achieved only when the forward discount (or premium) equals the ex-
pected change in the spot-exchange rate.
Exchange-Rate Risk
Exchange-rate risk is the natural consequence of international operations in a world where
foreign currency values move up and down. International firms usually enter into some con-
tracts that require payments in different currencies. For example, suppose that the treasurer
of an international firm knows that one month from today the firm must pay £2 million for
goods it will receive in England. The current exchange rate is $1.50/£, and if that rate pre-
vails in one month, the dollar cost of the goods to the firm will be $1.50/£  £2 million 
$3 million. The treasurer in this case is obligated to pay pounds in one month. (Alternately,
we say that he is short in pounds.) A net short or long position of this type can be very risky.
If the pound rises in the month to $2/£, the treasurer must pay $2/£  £2 million  $4 mil-
lion, an extra $1 million.
F0,1
S0
 ES1
S0
Chapter 32
International Corporate Finance
881

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
887
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
This is the essence of foreign exchange risk. The treasurer may want to hedge his po-
sition. When forward markets exist, the most convenient means of hedging is the purchase
or sale of forward contracts. In this example, the treasurer may want to consider buying 2
million pounds sterling one month forward. If the one-month forward rate quoted today is
also $1.50/£, the treasurer will fulfill the contract by exchanging $3 million for £2 million
in one month. The £2 million he receives from the contract can then be used to pay for the
goods. By hedging today, he fixes the outflow one month from now to exactly $3 million.
Should the treasurer hedge or speculate? There are usually two reasons why the trea-
surer should hedge:
1. In an efficient foreign exchange-rate market, speculation is a zero NPV activity. Unless
the treasurer has special information, nothing will be gained from foreign exchange
speculation.
2. The costs of hedging are not large. The treasurer can use forward contracts to hedge, and
if the forward rate is equal to the expected spot, the costs of hedging are negligible. Of
course, there are ways to hedge foreign exchange risk other than to use forward con-
882
Part VIII
Special Topics
IN THEIR OWN WORDS
Richard M. Levich on Forward Exchange Rates
W
hat is the relationship between today’s three-
month forward exchange rate, which can be
observed in the market, and the spot exchange rate of
three months from today, which cannot be observed until
the future? One popular answer is that there is no rela-
tionship. As every bank trader knows, the possibility of
covered interest arbitrage between domestic and foreign
securities establishes a close link between the forward
premium and the interest rate differential. At any
moment, a trader can check his screen and observe that
the forward premium and the interest rate differentials
are nearly identical, especially when Eurocurrency
interest rates are used. Thus the trader might say, “The
forward rate reflects today’s interest differential. It has
nothing to do with expectations.”
To check the second popular belief, that the forward
rate reflects exchange rate expectations, takes a bit more
work. Take today’s three-month forward rate as of
January 15 and compare it to the spot exchange rate that
actually exists three months later on April 15. This
produces one observation on the forward rate as a fore-
caster—not enough to accept or reject a theory. The idea
that the forward rate might be an unbiased predictor of
the future spot rate suggests that, on average and looking
at many observations, the prediction error is small. So
collect more data using the forward rate of April 15 and
match it with the spot rate of July 15, and then the
forward rate of July 15 matched to the spot rate of
October 15, and so on. Look at the data for 8–10 years to
have a large sample of observations.
The data suggest that in the early 1980s when the
dollar was very strong, the forward rate significantly
underestimated the strength of the dollar, and the forward
rate was a biased predictor. But from 1985–1987 when
the dollar depreciated sharply, the forward rate tended to
overestimate the strength of the dollar, and the forward
rate was again a biased predictor, but with the opposite
sign as the earlier period. Looking at all of the 1980s—
you guessed it—the forward rate was on average very
close to the future spot exchange rate.
There are two messages here. First, even if there were
“no relationship” between the forward rate and the future
spot rate, the treasurer of General Motors would want to
know exactly what that “nonrelationship” was. Because
if the forward rate were consistently 3 percent higher
than, or consistently 5 percent lower than, the future spot
rate, the treasurer would be facing a tantalizing profit
opportunity. A watch that is three minutes fast or five
minutes slow is a very useful watch, as long as the bias is
known and consistent.
Richard M. Levich is Professor of Finance and International
Business at New York University. He has written extensively on
exchange rates and other issues in international economics and
finance.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
888
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
tracts. For example, the treasurer can borrow dollars and buy pounds sterling in the spot
market today and lend them for one month in London. By the interest-rate–parity theo-
rem, this will be the same as buying the pounds sterling forward.
Which Firms Hedge Exchange-Rate Risk?
Not all firms with exchange-rate risk exposure hedge. Géczy, Minton, and Schrand report
about 41 percent of Fortune 500 firms with foreign currency risk actually attempt to
hedge these risks.2 They find that larger firms with greater growth opportunities are more
likely to use currency derivatives to hedge exchange-rate risk than smaller firms with
fewer investment opportunities. This suggests that some firms hedge to make sure that
they have enough cash on hand to finance their growth. In addition, firms with greater
growth opportunities will tend to have higher indirect bankruptcy costs. For these firms,
hedging exchange-rate risk will reduce these costs and increase the probability that they
will not default on their debt obligations.
The fact that larger firms are more likely to use hedging techniques suggests that the
costs of hedging are not insignificant. There may be fixed costs of establishing a hedging
operation, in which case, economies of scale may explain why smaller firms hedge less than
larger firms.
• What is the interest-rate-parity theorem?
• Why is the forward rate related to the expected future spot rate?
• How can one offset foreign exchange risk through a transaction in the forward markets?
32.5 INTERNATIONAL CAPITAL BUDGETING
Kihlstrom Equipment, a U.S.-based international company, is evaluating an investment in
France. Kihlstrom’s exports of drill bits have increased to such a degree that the company
is considering operating a plant in France. The project will cost FF20 million, and it is ex-
pected to produce cash flows of FF8 million a year for the next three years. The current spot-
exchange rate for French francs is S(0)  $0.20/FF. How should Kihlstrom calculate the net
present value of the projects in U.S. dollars?
Nothing about the fact that the investment is made abroad alters Kihlstrom’s NPV crite-
rion. Kihlstrom must identify incremental cash flows and discount them at the appropriate
cost of capital. After making the required discounted cash flow calculations, Kihlstrom should
undertake projects with a positive NPV. However, two major factors that complicate such in-
ternational NPV calculations are foreign exchange conversion and repatriation of funds.
Foreign Exchange Conversion
The simplest way for Kihlstrom to calculate the NPV of the investment is to convert all
French-franc cash flows to U.S. dollars. This involves a three-step process:
Step 1. Estimate future cash flows in French francs.
Step 2. Convert to U.S. dollars at the predicted exchange rate.
Step 3. Calculate NPV using the cost of capital in U.S. dollars.
Chapter 32
International Corporate Finance
883
2C. Géczy, B. Minton, and C. Schrand, “Why Firms Use Currency Derivatives,” Journal of Finance (September
1997). See also D. R. Nance, C. Smith, Jr., and C. W. Smithson, “On the Determinants of Corporate Hedging,”
Journal of Finance, 1993.
QUESTIONS
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
889
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
In Table 32.2 we show the application of these three steps to Kihlstrom’s French investment.
Notice in Table 32.2 that Kihlstrom’s French-franc cash flows were converted to dollars by
multiplying the foreign cash flows by the predicted foreign exchange rate.
How might Kihlstrom predict future exchange rates? Using the theory of efficient mar-
kets, Kihlstrom could calculate NPV using the foreign exchange market’s implicit predic-
tions. To figure these out, Kihlstrom can use the basic foreign exchange relationships de-
scribed in earlier sections of this chapter.
Kihlstrom begins by obtaining publicly available information on exchange rates and
interest rates. It finds:
Exchange rate:
SFF(0)  $0.15/FF, i.e., 1 French franc can be
purchased for $0.15.
Interest rate in United States:
iUS  8%
Interest rate in France:
iF  12%
Using equations (32.2), (32.3), and (32.4), Kihlstrom can calculate the following set of
relationships:



(32.5)
— Relative purchasing- — — Forward rate —
— Interest-rate —
power parity
related to
parity
expected spot rate
(32.2)
(32.4)
(32.3)
From the left, the first equality follows from relative purchasing-power parity. The expected
inflation rates in the two countries determine the expected movement in the spot rate, ex-
pressed earlier in equation (32.2). The equality between the second and third terms is a con-
sequence of our discussion on forward rates and expected spot rates, expressed earlier in equa-
tion (32.4). The last equality is interest-rate parity and appeared earlier in equation (32.3).
1  iUS
1  iF
FFF0,1
SFF0
ESFF1
SFF0
E1  US
E1  F
884
Part VIII
Special Topics
I TABLE 32.2 Net Present Value of Foreign Cash Flows:
Kihlstrom Equipment
End of Year
0
1
2
3
Incremental cash
flows (CFFF)
(FF millions)
20
8
8
8
Foreign exchange rate
($/FF)
0.15
0.145
0.14
0.135
Foreign exchange-rate
conversion
20  0.15
8  0.145
8  0.14
8  0.135
Incremental cash
flows ($ millions)
3
1.16
1.12
1.08
NPV at 15%  $0.43 million.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
890
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
We now compare the left-hand term to the right-hand term. We have
If the expected inflation rate in the United States is 8 percent, it follows that the expected
inflation rate in France is 12 percent:
Using relative purchasing-power parity, Kihlstrom can compute the expected spot-ex-
change rate in one year:
which implies E[SFF(1)]  0.145. The exchange rate expected at the end of year 2 is ob-
tained from
For year 3, the expected exchange rate is obtained from
Finally, the NPV of the project is computed:
where CFFF(t) refers to the French francs forecasted to be received in each of the next three
years. The discount rate we use is Kihlstrom’s U.S. cost of capital. We do not use the U.S.
risk-free rate of 8 percent because Kihlstrom’s project is risky; a risk-adjusted discount rate
must be used. Because the NPV at 15 percent is $430,000, Kihlstrom should not invest
in a subsidiary in France.
In this example we used the foreign exchange market’s implicit forecast of future ex-
change rates. Why not use management’s own forecast of foreign exchange rates in the cal-
culations? Suppose that the financial management of Kihlstrom feels optimistic about the
French franc. If its forecasts are sufficiently optimistic and they are used, Kihlstrom’s in-
vestment in a French subsidiary will generate a positive NPV. But, in general, it is a good
idea to separate the economic prospects of an investment and the foreign exchange
prospects, and it is unwise to use the latter projections in the NPV calculation. If Kihlstrom
wishes to speculate on an increase in the French franc relative to the U.S. dollar, the best
way to do this is to buy French francs in the forward foreign exchange market. By using the
forward-exchange rates implicit in the domestic and foreign interest rates, the firm is using
NPV  
 
3
t0
CFFFt  ESFFt
1  r *t
0.15  
1.08
1.12
3
 0.135
0.15  
1.08
1.12
2
 0.14
 1.08
1.12  ESFF1
0.15
 E1  US
E1  F  ESFF1
SFF0
EF  12%
 1.08
1.12 
1.08
E1  F
 1.08
1.12  E1  US
E1  F
 1  iUS
1  iF
 E1  US
E1  F
Chapter 32
International Corporate Finance
885

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
891
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
the actual dollar flows that it could, in principle, lock in today by borrowing in the foreign
currency. This makes the foreign cash flows equivalent to domestic cash flows.
Unremitted Cash Flows
The previous example assumed that all after-tax cash flows from the foreign investment were
remitted to the parent firm. The remittance decision is similar to the dividend for a purely do-
mestic firm. Substantial differences can exist between the cash flows of a project and the
amount that is actually remitted to the parent firm. Of course, the net present value of a proj-
ect will not be changed by deferred remittance if the unremitted cash flows are reinvested at
a rate of return equal (as adjusted for exchange rates) to the domestic cost of capital.
A foreign subsidiary can remit funds to a parent in many ways, including the following:
1. Dividends.
2. Management fees for central services.
3. Royalties on the use of trade names and patents.
International firms must pay special attention to remittance for two reasons. First, there
may be present and future exchange controls. Many governments are sensitive to the charge
of being exploited by foreign firms. Therefore, governments are tempted to limit the ability
of international firms to remit cash flows. Another reason is taxes. It is always necessary to
determine what taxes must be paid on profits generated in a foreign country. International
firms must usually pay foreign taxes on their foreign profits. The total taxes paid by an inter-
national firm may be a function of the time of remittance. For example, Kihlstrom’s French
subsidiary would need to pay taxes in France on the profits it earns in France. Kihlstrom will
also pay taxes on dividends it remits to the United States. In most cases Kihlstrom can offset
the payment of foreign taxes against the U.S. tax liability. Thus, if the French corporate in-
come tax is 34 percent, Kihlstrom will not be liable for additional U.S. taxes.
The Cost of Capital for International Firms
An important question for firms with international investments is whether the required re-
turn for international projects should be different from that of similar domestic projects.
Lower Cost of Capital from International Firm Diversification
In the previous chap-
ter, we expressed some skepticism concerning the benefits of diversification. We can make
a stronger case for diversification in international firms than for purely domestic firms. Sup-
pose barriers prevented shareholders in the United States from holding foreign securities;
the financial markets of different countries would be segmented. Further suppose that firms
in the United States were not subject to the same barriers. In such a case, a firm engaging
in international investing could provide indirect diversification for U.S. shareholders that
they could not achieve by investing within the United States. This could lead to the lower-
ing of the risk premium on international projects. In general, if the costs of investing abroad
are lower for a firm than for its shareholders, there is an advantage to international diversi-
fication by firms, and this advantage will be reflected in a lower risk-adjusted discount rate.
Alternatively, if there were no barriers to international investing for shareholders, share-
holders could obtain the benefit of international diversification for themselves by buying for-
eign securities. In this case the project cost of capital for a firm in the United States would not
depend on whether the project was in the United States or in a foreign country. In practice,
holding foreign securities involves substantial expenses. These expenses include taxes, the
costs of obtaining information, and trading costs. This implies that although U.S. investors are
free to hold foreign securities, they will not be perfectly internationally diversified.
886
Part VIII
Special Topics

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
892
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Lower Cost of Capital from International Shareholder Diversification
Recall our dis-
cussion of the CAPM and the market portfolio. Consider the U.S. stock market and a U.S.
investor who is not internationally diversified but, instead, is invested only in U.S. stocks.
From our previous discussion of diversification, we know this investor would be bearing
more risk than if she were able to diversify in the stocks of different countries. Now imag-
ine she can invest in many foreign stocks by diversifying internationally. She should be able
to reduce the variance (or standard deviation) of her portfolio significantly.
For this investor, the market-risk premium will be lower than for investors who cannot
diversify internationally. In internationally integrated markets, investors with internation-
ally diversified portfolios will measure the risk of an individual stock in terms of a world-
market portfolio and global betas. Therefore, the cost of capital of a particular firm will be
in terms of a global CAPM, such as
E(RI)  rF  BG [E(RG)  rF]
where RI is the required return on a stock when markets are global, rF is the risk free rate,
BG is the global beta, and RG is the return on the world-market portfolio. A firm with inter-
nationally diversified investors will have a cost of capital with a lower market-risk premium
[i.e., E(RG  rF)] and a global beta when compared to a firm with investors that cannot di-
versify internationally.
Solnik has presented evidence that suggests that international diversification significantly
reduces risk for shareholders.3 He shows that the variance of an internationally diversified
portfolio of common stocks is about 33 percent of the variance of individual securities. A di-
versified portfolio of U.S. stocks will reduce variance by only 50 percent. Table 32.3 shows
that a world portfolio has lower risk than a portfolio of stocks within a single country. For ex-
ample, a citizen of Hong Kong can reduce risk from 12.8 percent to 4.2 percent by investing
in a world portfolio. This evidence is consistent with a lower global market-risk premium than
is a purely domestic-risk premium. Global betas will be different than purely domestic betas.
Stulz has argued that the preceding claim for why internationalization reduces the cost of cap-
ital doesn’t capture the complete picture. He agrees that the global market-risk premium is
likely to be substantially lower than the risk premium for an isolated country. In addition, he
argues that global investing is likely to improve corporate governance and reduce agency
costs. The argument goes something like this: Firms in countries with less-developed fi-
nancial markets will need to improve their governance so that they can raise capital in well-
developed capital markets such as the U.S. Foreign firms raising capital in the U.S. must ap-
peal to more sophisticated investors and better market architectures with superior monitoring
abilities.4 Table 32.3 also shows that the systematic risk of foreign stock investment can be
very low, as is the case of Austria, or very high, as is the case of Hong Kong.
Foreign Political Risks
Firms may determine that international investments inherently
involve more political risk than domestic investments. This extra risk may offset the gains
from international diversification. Firms may increase the discount rate to allow for the risk
of expropriation and foreign exchange remittance controls.
Chapter 32
International Corporate Finance
887
3B. H. Solnik, “Why Not Diversify Internationally Rather than Domestically?” Financial Analysts Journal
(July–August 1974). A recent estimate of the benefits of international diversification can be found in Georgio
DeSantis and Bruno Gerard, “International Asset Pricing and Portfolio Diversification with Time-Varying Risk,
Journal of Finance 52 (1997). They estimate that an internationally diversified portfolio will reduce standard
deviation by 20 percent when compared to investing in U.S. stocks only.
4René M. Stulz, “Globalization, Corporate Finance, and the Cost of Capital,” Journal of Applied Corporate
Finance 12 (1999). See also Ronald M. Schramm and Henry N. Wang, “Measuring the Cost of Capital in an
International CAPM Framework,” Journal of Corporate Finance 12 (1999) and Thomas I. O’Brian, “The
Global CAPM and a Firm’s Cost of Capital in Different Currencies,” Journal of Corporate Finance 12 (1999).

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
893
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
• What problems do international projects pose for the use of net-present-value techniques?
32.6 INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL DECISIONS
An international firm can finance foreign projects in three basic ways:
1. It can raise cash in the home country and export it to finance the foreign project.
2. It can raise cash by borrowing in the foreign country where the project is located.
3. It can borrow in a third country where the cost of debt is lowest.
If a U.S. firm raises cash for its foreign projects by borrowing in the United States, it
has an exchange-rate risk. If the foreign currency depreciates, the U.S. parent firm may ex-
perience an exchange-rate loss when the foreign cash flow is remitted to the United States.
Of course, the U.S. firm may sell foreign exchange forward to hedge this risk. However, it
is difficult to sell forward contracts beyond one year.
Firms in the United States may borrow in the country where the foreign project is lo-
cated. This is the usual way of hedging long-term foreign exchange risk. Thus, if Kihlstrom
Equipment wishes to invest FF20 million in France, it may attempt to raise much of the cash
in France. Kihlstrom should know that long-term hedging of foreign exchange risk by bor-
rowing in the foreign country is effective only up to the amount borrowed. Any residual (eq-
uity) would not be hedged.
888
Part VIII
Special Topics
I TABLE 32.3 Risk Measures for Foreign Market Portfolios
Monthly Standard
Beta
Deviation (%)
Hong Kong
2.08
12.8%
Japan
1.42
6.1
Sweden
.73
6.2
Norway
.57
5.3
Belgium
1.06
6.0
Netherlands
1.01
5.6
United Kingdom
1.38
7.9
Denmark
.49
5.5
France
.69
7.4
Austria
.19
5.4
Germany
.70
6.0
Switzerland
.83
5.7
Australia
1.39
8.2
Canada
1.04
5.9
United States
.97
4.7
World
1.00
4.2
Source: Campbell R. Harvey, “The World Price of Covariance Risk,” Journal of Finance (March 1991) from
Table I, p. 122 and Table VI, p. 140.
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
894
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Another alternative is to find a country where interest rates are low. However, foreign
interest rates may be lower because of lower expected foreign inflation. Thus, financial
managers must be careful to look beyond nominal interest rates to real interest rates.
Short-Term and Medium-Term Financing
In raising short-term and medium-term cash, U.S. international firms often have a choice
between borrowing from a U.S. bank at the U.S. interest rate or borrowing Eurodollars in
the Eurocurrency market.
A Eurodollar is a dollar deposited in a bank outside the United States. For example,
dollar deposits in Paris, France, are Eurodollars. The Eurocurrency markets are the banks
(Eurobanks) that make loans and accept deposits in foreign currencies. Most Eurocurrency
trading involves the borrowing and lending of time deposits at Eurobanks. For example, a
Eurobank receives a Eurodollar deposit from a domestic U.S. bank. Afterward, the Eurobank
will make a dollar-denominated loan to a borrowing party. This is the Eurocurrency market.
It is not a retail bank market. The customers are corporations and governments.
One important characteristic of the Eurocurrency market is that loans are made on a
floating-rate basis. The interest rates are set at a fixed margin above the London Interbank
Offered Rate for the given period and currency involved. For example, if the margin is 0.5
percent for dollar loans and the current LIBOR is 8 percent for dollar loans, the dollar bor-
rower will pay an interest rate of 8.5 percent. This rate is usually changed every six months.
The dollar loans will have maturities ranging from 3 to 10 years.
It is obvious that in a perfectly competitive financial market the interest rate on a
Eurodollar loan in a Eurocurrency market must be the same as the interest rate in the U.S.
loan market. If the interest rate on a Eurodollar loan were higher than that on a domestic-
dollar loan, arbitrageurs would borrow in the domestic-dollar market and lend in the
Eurodollar market. This type of arbitrage trading would force interest rates to be the same
in both dollar markets. However, from time to time there are differences between the
Eurodollar loan rate and the domestic loan rate. Risk, government regulations, and taxes ex-
plain most of the differences.
International Bond Markets
The worldwide public bond market is made up of $21.5 trillion in bonds issued in many
currencies. Table 32.4 shows that bonds denominated in dollars make up 44.6 percent of the
total. The total worldwide bond market can be divided into domestic bonds and interna-
tional bonds. Domestic bonds are those issued by a firm in its home country. International
bonds are those issued by firms in another currency than the currency of the home country.
Trading in international bonds is over the counter and takes place in loosely connected
individual markets. These individual markets are closely tied to the corresponding domes-
tic bond markets. International bonds can be divided into two main types: foreign bonds and
Eurobonds.
Foreign Bonds
Foreign bonds are bonds that are issued by foreign borrowers in a partic-
ular country’s domestic bond market. They are often nicknamed for the country of issuance.
They are denominated in the country’s domestic currency. For example, suppose a Swiss
watch company issues U.S. dollar-denominated bonds in the United States.
These foreign bonds would be called Yankee bonds. Like all foreign bonds issued in
the United States,Yankee bonds must be registered under the Securities Act of 1933. Yankee
bonds are usually rated by a bond-rating agency such as Standard & Poor’s Corporation.
Many Yankee bonds are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Chapter 32
International Corporate Finance
889

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
895
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Many foreign bonds, such as Yankee bonds, are registered. This makes them less at-
tractive to investors having a disdain for tax authorities. For obvious reasons, these traders
like the Eurobond market better than the foreign-bond market. Registered bonds have an
ownership name assigned to the bond’s serial number. The transfer of ownership of a reg-
istered bond can take place only via legal transfer of the registered name. Transfer agents
(for example, commercial banks) are required.
Eurobonds
Eurobonds are denominated in a particular currency and are issued simulta-
neously in the bond markets of several countries. The prefix Euro means that the bonds are
issued outside the countries in whose currencies they are denominated.
Most Eurobonds are bearer bonds. The ownership of the bonds is established by pos-
session of the bond. In contrast, many foreign bonds are registered.
Most issues of Eurobonds are arranged by underwriting. However, some Eurobonds
are privately placed.5 A public issue with underwriting is similar to the public debt sold in
domestic bond markets. The borrower sells its bonds to a group of management banks.
Managing banks, in turn, sell the bonds to other banks. The other banks are divided into two
groups: underwriters and sellers. The underwriters and sellers sell the bonds to dealers and
fund investors. The managing banks also serve as underwriters and sellers. Underwriters
usually sell Eurobonds on a firm commitment basis. That is, they are committed to buy the
bonds at a prenegotiated price and attempt to sell them at a higher price in the market.
Eurobonds appear as straight bonds, floating-rate notes, convertible bonds, zero-coupon
bonds, mortgage-backed bonds, and dual-currency bonds.6
890
Part VIII
Special Topics
I TABLE 32.4 The Top 10 Bond Markets
Total Publicly Issued
Percentage
Bond Market
(in $ billions)
of Total
U.S. dollar
$ 9,683
44.6%
Japanese yen
3,666
17.1
German mark
2,303
10.7
Italian lira
1,274
5.9
French franc
1,044
4.9
British pound
662
3.1
Canadian dollar
446
2.1
Dutch guilder
401
1.9
Belgian franc
387
1.8
Danish krone
288
1.3
Rest of the world
1,446
6.7
Total world bonds
$21,500
100.00%
Source: Fortune, November 10, 1997. See also The Economist, May 25, 1996.
5In general, the issue costs are lower in private placements, as compared to public issues, and the yields are
higher.
6There is a small but growing international equity market. International equities are stock issues underwritten
and distributed to a mix of investors without regard to national borders. Our definition of international equity
encompasses two basic types: those issues that have been internationally syndicated and distributed outside all
national exchanges (termed Euroequities) and those that are issued by underwriters in domestic markets other
than their own.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
896
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EXAMPLE
A French automobile firm issues 50,000 bonds with a face value of $1,000 each.
When the bonds are issued, they are managed by London merchant bankers and
listed on the London Stock Exchange. These are Eurobonds. Each bond has a fixed
coupon rate of 6 percent paid annually on August 15.
EXAMPLE
An American firm makes an offering of $500 million of floating-rate notes.
The notes are offered in London. The notes mature in 2020 and have semian-
nual interest of 0.5 percent above the six-month London Interbank Offered
Rate. When the bonds are issued, the six-month LIBOR is 10 percent. Thus, in
the first six months the American firm will pay interest (at the annual rate) of
10%  0.5%  10.5%.
32.7 REPORTING FOREIGN OPERATIONS
When a U.S. company prepares consolidated financial statements, the firm translates the lo-
cal-currency accounts of foreign subsidiaries into the currency that is used for reporting
purposes, usually the currency of the home country (that is, dollars). If exchange rates
change during the accounting period, accounting gains or losses can occur.
Suppose a U.S. firm acquired a British company in 1982. At that time the exchange rate
was £1  $2. The British firm performed very well during the next few years (according to
sterling measurements). During the same period, the value of the pound fell to $1.25. Did
the corresponding increase in the value of the dollar make the U.S. company better off?
Should the increase be reflected in the measurement of income?
These questions have been among the most controversial accounting questions in re-
cent years. Two issues seem to arise:
1. What is the appropriate exchange rate to use for translating each balance-sheet account?
2. How should unrealized accounting gains and losses from foreign-currency translation
be handled?
Currency is currently translated under complicated rules set out in Financial
Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Statement Number 52, which was issued in
December 1981. For the most part, FASB Number 52 requires that all assets and liabilities
be translated from the subsidiary’s currency into the parent’s, using the exchange rate that
currently prevails. Gains and losses are accumulated in a special account within the share-
holders’equity section of the balance sheet. Thus, the impact of translation gains and losses
will not be recognized explicitly in net income until the underlying assets and liabilities are
sold or liquidated.
• What issues arise when reporting foreign operations?
Chapter 32
International Corporate Finance
891
QUESTION
CONCEPT
?

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
897
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
32.8 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
The international firm has a more complicated life than the purely domestic firm. Management
must understand the connection between interest rates, foreign-currency exchange rates, and
inflation, and it must become aware of a large number of different financial market regulations
and tax systems.
1. This chapter describes some fundamental theories of international finance:
• The purchasing-power–parity theorem (law of one price).
• The expectations theory of exchange rates.
• The interest-rate–parity theorem.
2. The purchasing-power–parity theorem states that $1 should have the same purchasing power
in each country. This means that an apple costs the same whether you buy it in New York or
in Tokyo. One version of the purchasing-power–parity theorem states that the change in
exchange rates between the currencies of two countries is connected to the inflation rates in
the countries’ commodity prices.
3. The expectations theory of exchange rates states that the forward rate of exchange is equal to
the expected spot rate.
4. The interest-rate–parity theorem states that the interest-rate differential between two
countries will be equal to the difference between the forward-exchange rate and the spot-
exchange rate. This equality must prevail to prevent arbitrageurs from devising get-rich-quick
strategies. The equality requires the rate of return on risk-free investments in the United
States to be the same as that in other countries.
Of course, in practice the purchasing-power–parity theorem and the interest-rate-parity
theorem cannot work perfectly. Government regulations and taxes prevent this. However,
there is much empirical work and intuition that suggests that these theories describe
international financial markets in an approximate way.
5. The chapter also describes some of the problems of international capital budgeting. The net-
present-value rule is still the appropriate way to choose projects, but the main problem is to
choose the correct cost of capital. We argue that it should be equal to the rate that
shareholders can expect to earn on a portfolio of domestic and foreign securities. This rate
should be about the same as is true for a portfolio of domestic securities. However, two
adjustments may be necessary:
a. The cost of capital of an international firm may be lower than that of a domestic
counterpart because of the benefits of international diversification.
b. The cost of capital of an international firm may be higher because of the extra foreign
political risks.
6. We briefly describe international financial markets. International firms may want to consider
borrowing cash in the local financial market or in Eurocurrency and Eurobond markets. The
interest rates are likely to appear different in these markets. Thus, international firms must be
careful to consider differences in taxes and government regulations.
892
Part VIII
Special Topics

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
898
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
KEY TERMS
American Depository Receipt (ADR)
872
Globalization
872
Cross rate
873
Interest-rate–parity theorem
879
Eurobanks
889
Law of one price (LOP)
877
Eurobonds
873
London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR)
874
Eurocurrency
873
Purchasing-power parity (PPP)
878
Eurodollar
889
Relative purchasing-power parity (RPPP)
878
European Currency Unit (ECU)
873
Spot-exchange rate
876
Exchange rate
875
Spot trades
876
Foreign bonds
874
Swap rate
876
Foreign exchange market
874
Swaps
874
Forward-exchange rate
876
Triangular arbitrage
876
Forward trades
876
Yankee bonds
889
Gilts
874
SUGGESTED READINGS
Some of the latest academic research in international finance appears in the Journal of Applied
Corporate Finance: “Global Finance” (Fall 1999); “Emerging Markets and the Asian Crisis”
(Fall 1998); “Global Finance and Risk Management” (Fall 1997).
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Some Basics
32.1 Use Table 32.5 to answer the following questions:
a. What is the quote in direct terms for the British pound sterling and the U.S. dollar on spot
exchange? What is it in European terms for the West German mark and the U.S. dollar?
b. Is the Japanese yen at a premium or a discount to the U.S. dollar in the forward markets?
c. To which type of foreign exchange participants would the forward prices of the
Japanese yen be important? Why? What types of transactions might these participants
use to cover their exposed risk in the foreign exchange markets?
d. Suppose you are a Swiss exporter of watches. If you are to be paid in U.S. dollars three
months from now for a shipment made to the United States worth $100,000, how many
Swiss francs would you receive if you locked in the price today with a forward
contract? Would you buy or sell the dollar forward?
e. Calculate the U.K. pound–West German deutschemark cross rate for spot exchange in
terms of the U.S. dollar. Do the same for the yen–Swiss franc cross rate.
f. In the text a swap transaction is described. Why might both banks profit from the use of
such a mutual agreement?
32.2 Determine whether arbitrage opportunities exist given the following foreign exchange rates.
a. $1.8/L
DM2/$
DM4/L
b. ¥100/$
DM2/$
¥50/DM
c. HKD7.8/$
¥100/$
¥14/HKD
The Law of One Price and Purchasing-Power Parity
32.3 Are the following statements true or false? Explain.
a. If the general price index in Japan rises faster than that in the United States (assuming
that there are zero transaction costs, that no barriers to trade exist, and that products
are identical in both countries), we would expect the yen to appreciate with respect to
the dollar.
Chapter 32
International Corporate Finance
893

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
899
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
894
Part VIII
Special Topics
I TABLE 32.5 Foreign Exchange, Week Ended Thursday, April 16, 200X
Foreign Currency
Dollar in
in Dollars
Foreign Currency
f-Argent (Austral)
0.6515
1.5350
Australia (Dollar)
0.7160
1.3966
Austria (Schilling)
0.0784
12.76
c-Belgium (Franc)
0.0267
37.52
f-Belgium (Franc)
0.0264
37.82
Brazil (Cruzado)
0.0419
23.88
Britain (Pound)
1.6317
0.6129
30-day fut
1.6277
0.6144
60-day fut
1.6238
0.6158
90-day fut
1.6204
0.6171
Canada (Dollar)
0.7593
1.3170
30-day fut
0.7591
1.3173
60-day fut
0.7588
1.3179
90-day fut
0.7584
1.3185
y-Chile (Peso)
0.0047
211.34
Colombia (Peso)
0.0043
230.50
Denmark (Krone)
0.1466
6.8220
c-Egypt (Pound)
0.7353
1.3600
f-Ecuador (Sucre)
0.006325
158.10
Finland (Mark)
0.2270
4.4050
France (Franc)
0.1661
6.0220
Greece (Drachma)
0.0075
132.75
Hong Kong (Dollar)
0.1282
7.8015
y-India (Rupee)
0.0779
12.8400
Indonesia (Rupiah)
0.000611
1635.75
Ireland (Punt)
1.4710
0.6798
Israel (Shekel)
0.6246
1.6010
Italy (Lira)
0.000775
1290.50
Japan (Yen)
0.006993
143.00
30-day fut
0.007009
142.66
60-day fut
0.007027
142.30
90-day fut
0.007042
142.01
Jordan (Dinar)
3.0211
0.33100
Kuwait (Dinar)
3.6740
0.27218
Lebanon (Pound)
0.00813
123.00
z-Mexico (Peso)
0.000860
1163.00
Netherlands (Guilder)
0.4900
2.0410
New Zealand (Dollar)
0.5800
1.7241
Norway (Krone)
0.1477
6.7700
Pakistan (Rupee)
0.0578
17.30
y-Peru (Inti)
0.0673
14.85
z-Philippines (Peso)
0.0494
20.2500
Portugal (Escudo)
0.007153
139.80
Saudi Arabia (Rijal)
0.2666
3.7505
Singapore (Dollar)
0.4690
2.1320
S. Korea (Won)
0.001183
845.50
S. Africa (Rand)
0.4975
2.01010
Spain (Peseta)
0.007890
126.75
Sweden (Krona)
0.1586
6.3070

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
900
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
b. Suppose you are a French wine exporter who receives all payments in foreign currency.
The French government begins to undertake an expansionary monetary policy. If it is
certain that the result will be higher inflation in France than in other countries, you
would be wise to use forward markets to protect yourself against future losses resulting
from the deterioration of the value of the French franc.
c. If you could accurately estimate differences in relative inflation between two countries
over a long period of time (and other participants in the market were unable to do so),
you could successfully speculate in spot currency markets.
32.4 The inflation rates for Empire White and Empire Black are 5 percent and 10 percent,
respectively. At the beginning of the year, the spot rate between the two currencies is 2.5
black dollars per white dollar. What is the approximate spot rate at year-end?
Interest Rates and Exchange Rates: Interest-Rate Parity
32.5 A U.S. corporation, Forever Young, Inc., intends to import $1,000,000 worth of cosmetics
from France and will make payment in FF three months from now. The foreign exchange
spot rate of French franc to the U.S. dollar is FF6/$. Annual interest rates for U.S. dollar
and French franc are 5 percent and 8 percent, respectively.
a. What is the three-month forward rate for French franc if interest-rate parity holds?
b. How can Forever Young, Inc., use currency trading to hedge against the foreign
exchange risk associated with the purchase?
International Capital Budgeting
32.6 a. The treasurer of a major U.S. firm has $5 million to invest for three months. The annual
interest rate in the United States is 12 percent. The interest rate in the United Kingdom
is 9 percent. The spot rate of exchange is $2/£ and the three-month forward rate is
$2.015/£. Ignoring transaction costs, in which country would the treasurer want to
invest the company’s capital if he can fix the exchange rate three months hence through
a forward contract?
Chapter 32
International Corporate Finance
895
I TABLE 32.5 (concluded)
Foreign Currency
Dollar in
in Dollars
Foreign Currency
Switzerland (Franc)
0.6691
1.4945
30-day fut
0.6710
1.4904
60-day fut
0.6730
1.4858
90-day fut
0.6743
1.4830
Taiwan (NT $)
0.0294
33.97
Turkey (Lira)
0.001273
785.85
U.A.E. (Dirham)
0.2723
3.6723
z-Uruguay (Peso)
0.0050
201.4
z-Venezuela (Bolivar)
0.0422
23.7000
W. Germany (Mark)
0.5522
1.8110
30-day fut
0.5534
1.8070
60-day fut
0.5548
1.8023
90-day fut
0.5562
1.7978
Yugoslavia (Dinar)
0.001774
563.71
The Federal Reserve Board’s index measuring the value of the dollar against 10 other currencies weighted on
the basis of trade was 96.92 Thursday, up 18 points or 0.18 percent from Wednesday’s 96.74. A year ago the
index was 115.10.
Late prices as of 3:30 P.M. Eastern time as gathered by First American Bank of New York. c, commercial rate; 
f, financial rate; y, official rate; z, floating rate; r, revised.
Reprinted by permission of The Wall Street Journal. © Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All rights reserved.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
VIII. Special Topics
32. International Corporate 
Finance
901
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
b. The spot rate of foreign exchange between the United States and the United Kingdom
at time t is $1.50/£. If the interest rate in the United States is 13 percent and 8 percent
in the United Kingdom, what would you expect the one-year forward rate to be if no
immediate arbitrage opportunities existed?
c. If you are an exporter who must make payments in foreign currency three months after
receiving each shipment and you predict that the domestic currency will appreciate in
value over this period, is there any value in hedging your currency exposure?
32.7 a. Suppose it is your task to evaluate two different investments in new subsidiaries for
your company, one in your own country and the other in a foreign country. You
calculate the cash flows of both projects to be identical after exchange-rate differences.
Under what circumstances might you choose to invest in the foreign subsidiary? Give
an example of a country where certain factors might influence you to alter this decision
and invest at home.
b. Suppose Strom Equipment comes across another investment in Germany. The project costs
DM10 million and is expected to produce cash flows of DM4 million in year 1 and DM3
million in each of years 2 and 3. The current spot-exchange rate is $0.5/DM1 and the
current risk-free rate in the United States is 11.3 percent, compared to that in Germany of 
6 percent. The appropriate discount rate for the project is estimated to be 15 percent, the
U.S. cost of capital for the company. In addition, the subsidiary can be sold at the end of
three years for an estimated DM2.1 million. What is the NPV of the project?
c. An investment in a foreign subsidiary is estimated to have a positive NPV, after the
discount rate used in the calculations is adjusted for political risk and any advantages
from diversification. Does this mean the project is acceptable? Why or why not?
d. If a U.S. firm raises funds for a foreign subsidiary, what are the disadvantages to
borrowing in the United States? How would you overcome them?
International Financial Decisions
32.8 a. What is a Euroyen?
b. If financial markets are perfectly competitive and the Eurodollar rate is above that
offered in the U.S. loan market, you would immediately want to borrow money in the
United States and invest it in Eurodollars. True or false? Explain.
c. What distinguishes a Eurobond from a foreign bond? Which particular feature makes
the Eurobond more popular than the foreign bond?
d. How would you describe a bond issued by a Canadian firm in the United States with
payments denominated in U.S. dollars?
896
Part VIII
Special Topics

Finance
McGraw−Hill Primis
ISBN: 0−390−32000−5
Text: 
 
Corporate Finance, Sixth Edition
Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe
Corporate Fiance
David Whitehurst
UMIST
Volume 2
McGraw-Hill/Irwin


Finance
http://www.mhhe.com/primis/online/
Copyright ©2003 by The McGraw−Hill Companies, Inc. All rights 
reserved. Printed in the United States of America. Except as 
permitted under the United States Copyright Act of 1976, no part 
of this publication may be reproduced or distributed in any form 
or by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, 
without prior written permission of the publisher. 
 
This McGraw−Hill Primis text may include materials submitted to 
McGraw−Hill for publication by the instructor of this course. The 
instructor is solely responsible for the editorial content of such 
materials.
111
FINA
ISBN: 0−390−32000−5
This book was printed on recycled paper.

Finance
Volume 2
Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe  •  Corporate Finance, Sixth Edition 
Back Matter 
903
Appendix A: Mathematical Tables 
903
Appendix B: Solutions to Selected End−of−Chapter Problems 
919
Glossary 
923
Name Index 
939
Subject Index 
942
End Papers 
959
iii

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix A: Mathematical 
Tables
903
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Mathematical Tables
APPENDIX A

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix A: Mathematical 
Tables
904
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
898
Appendix A
Mathematical Tables
I TABLE A.1 Present Value of $1 to Be Received after T Periods  1/(1  r)T
Interest  Rate
Period
1%
2%
3%
4%
5%
6%
7%
8%
9%
1
0.9901
0.9804
0.9709
0.9615
0.9524
0.9434
0.9346
0.9259
0.9174
2
0.9803
0.9612
0.9426
0.9246
0.9070
0.8900
0.8734
0.8573
0.8417
3
0.9706
0.9423
0.9151
0.8890
0.8638
0.8396
0.8163
0.7938
0.7722
4
0.9610
0.9238
0.8885
0.8548
0.8227
0.7921
0.7629
0.7350
0.7084
5
0.9515
0.9057
0.8626
0.8219
0.7835
0.7473
0.7130
0.6806
0.6499
6
0.9420
0.8880
0.8375
0.7903
0.7462
0.7050
0.6663
0.6302
0.5963
7
0.9327
0.8706
0.8131
0.7599
0.7107
0.6651
0.6227
0.5835
0.5470
8
0.9235
0.8535
0.7894
0.7307
0.6768
0.6274
0.5820
0.5403
0.5019
9
0.9143
0.8368
0.7664
0.7026
0.6446
0.5919
0.5439
0.5002
0.4604
10
0.9053
0.8203
0.7441
0.6756
0.6139
0.5584
0.5083
0.4632
0.4224
11
0.8963
0.8043
0.7224
0.6496
0.5847
0.5268
0.4751
0.4289
0.3875
12
0.8874
0.7885
0.7014
0.6246
0.5568
0.4970
0.4440
0.3971
0.3555
13
0.8787
0.7730
0.6810
0.6006
0.5303
0.4688
0.4150
0.3677
0.3262
14
0.8700
0.7579
0.6611
0.5775
0.5051
0.4423
0.3878
0.3405
0.2992
15
0.8613
0.7430
0.6419
0.5553
0.4810
0.4173
0.3624
0.3152
0.2745
16
0.8528
0.7284
0.6232
0.5339
0.4581
0.3936
0.3387
0.2919
0.2519
17
0.8444
0.7142
0.6050
0.5134
0.4363
0.3714
0.3166
0.2703
0.2311
18
0.8360
0.7002
0.5874
0.4936
0.4155
0.3503
0.2959
0.2502
0.2120
19
0.8277
0.6864
0.5703
0.4746
0.3957
0.3305
0.2765
0.2317
0.1945
20
0.8195
0.6730
0.5537
0.4564
0.3769
0.3118
0.2584
0.2145
0.1784
21
0.8114
0.6598
0.5375
0.4388
0.3589
0.2942
0.2415
0.1987
0.1637
22
0.8034
0.6468
0.5219
0.4220
0.3418
0.2775
0.2257
0.1839
0.1502
23
0.7954
0.6342
0.5067
0.4057
0.3256
0.2618
0.2109
0.1703
0.1378
24
0.7876
0.6217
0.4919
0.3901
0.3101
0.2470
0.1971
0.1577
0.1264
25
0.7798
0.6095
0.4776
0.3751
0.2953
0.2330
0.1842
0.1460
0.1160
30
0.7419
0.5521
0.4120
0.3083
0.2314
0.1741
0.1314
0.0994
0.0754
40
0.6717
0.4529
0.3066
0.2083
0.1420
0.0972
0.0668
0.0460
0.0318
50
0.6080
0.3715
0.2281
0.1407
0.0872
0.0543
0.0339
0.0213
0.0134
*The factor is zero to four decimal places.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix A: Mathematical 
Tables
905
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Appendix A
Mathematical Tables
899
I TABLE A.1 (concluded)
Interest  Rate
10%
12%
14%
15%
16%
18%
20%
24%
28%
32%
36%
0.9091
0.8929
0.8772
0.8696
0.8621
0.8475
0.8333
0.8065
0.7813
0.7576
0.7353
0.8264
0.7972
0.7695
0.7561
0.7432
0.7182
0.6944
0.6504
0.6104
0.5739
0.5407
0.7513
0.7118
0.6750
0.6575
0.6407
0.6086
0.5787
0.5245
0.4768
0.4348
0.3975
0.6830
0.6355
0.5921
0.5718
0.5523
0.5158
0.4823
0.4230
0.3725
0.3294
0.2923
0.6209
0.5674
0.5194
0.4972
0.4761
0.4371
0.4019
0.3411
0.2910
0.2495
0.2149
0.5645
0.5066
0.4556
0.4323
0.4104
0.3704
0.3349
0.2751
0.2274
0.1890
0.1580
0.5132
0.4523
0.3996
0.3759
0.3538
0.3139
0.2791
0.2218
0.1776
0.1432
0.1162
0.4665
0.4039
0.3506
0.3269
0.3050
0.2660
0.2326
0.1789
0.1388
0.1085
0.0854
0.4241
0.3606
0.3075
0.2843
0.2630
0.2255
0.1938
0.1443
0.1084
0.0822
0.0628
0.3855
0.3220
0.2697
0.2472
0.2267
0.1911
0.1615
0.1164
0.0847
0.0623
0.0462
0.3505
0.2875
0.2366
0.2149
0.1954
0.1619
0.1346
0.0938
0.0662
0.0472
0.0340
0.3186
0.2567
0.2076
0.1869
0.1685
0.1372
0.1122
0.0757
0.0517
0.0357
0.0250
0.2897
0.2292
0.1821
0.1625
0.1452
0.1163
0.0935
0.0610
0.0404
0.0271
0.0184
0.2633
0.2046
0.1597
0.1413
0.1252
0.0985
0.0779
0.0492
0.0316
0.0205
0.0135
0.2394
0.1827
0.1401
0.1229
0.1079
0.0835
0.0649
0.0397
0.0247
0.0155
0.0099
0.2176
0.1631
0.1229
0.1069
0.0930
0.0708
0.0541
0.0320
0.0193
0.0118
0.0073
0.1978
0.1456
0.1078
0.0929
0.0802
0.0600
0.0451
0.0258
0.0150
0.0089
0.0054
0.1799
0.1300
0.0946
0.0808
0.0691
0.0508
0.0376
0.0208
0.0118
0.0068
0.0039
0.1635
0.1161
0.0829
0.0703
0.0596
0.0431
0.0313
0.0168
0.0092
0.0051
0.0029
0.1486
0.1037
0.0728
0.0611
0.0514
0.0365
0.0261
0.0135
0.0072
0.0039
0.0021
0.1351
0.0926
0.0638
0.0531
0.0443
0.0309
0.0217
0.0109
0.0056
0.0029
0.0016
0.1228
0.0826
0.0560
0.0462
0.0382
0.0262
0.0181
0.0088
0.0044
0.0022
0.0012
0.1117
0.0738
0.0491
0.0402
0.0329
0.0222
0.0151
0.0071
0.0034
0.0017
0.0008
0.1015
0.0659
0.0431
0.0349
0.0284
0.0188
0.0126
0.0057
0.0027
0.0013
0.0006
0.0923
0.0588
0.0378
0.0304
0.0245
0.0160
0.0105
0.0046
0.0021
0.0010
0.0005
0.0573
0.0334
0.0196
0.0151
0.0116
0.0070
0.0042
0.0016
0.0006
0.0002
0.0001
0.0221
0.0107
0.0053
0.0037
0.0026
0.0013
0.0007
0.0002
0.0001
*
*
0.0085
0.0035
0.0014
0.0009
0.0006
0.0003
0.0001
*
*
*
*

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix A: Mathematical 
Tables
906
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
900
Appendix A
Mathematical Tables
I TABLE A.2
Present Value of an Annuity of $1 per Period for T Periods  [1  1/(1  r)T]/r
Interest  Rate
1%
2%
3%
4%
5%
6%
7%
8%
9%
1
0.9901
0.9804
0.9709
0.9615
0.9524
0.9434
0.9346
0.9259
0.9174
2
1.9704
1.9416
1.9135
1.8861
1.8594
1.8334
1.8080
1.7833
1.7591
3
2.9410
2.8839
2.8286
2.7751
2.7232
2.6730
2.6243
2.5771
2.5313
4
3.9020
3.8077
3.7171
3.6299
3.5460
3.4651
3.3872
3.3121
3.2397
5
4.8534
4.7135
4.5797
4.4518
4.3295
4.2124
4.1002
3.9927
3.8897
6
5.7955
5.6014
5.4172
5.2421
5.0757
4.9173
4.7665
4.6229
4.4859
7
6.7282
6.4720
6.2303
6.0021
5.7864
5.5824
5.3893
5.2064
5.0330
8
7.6517
7.3255
7.0197
6.7327
6.4632
6.2098
5.9713
5.7466
5.5348
9
8.5660
8.1622
7.7861
7.4353
7.1078
6.8017
6.5152
6.2469
5.9952
10
9.4713
8.9826
8.5302
8.1109
7.7217
7.3601
7.0236
6.7101
6.4177
11
10.3676
9.7868
9.2526
8.7605
8.3064
7.8869
7.4987
7.1390
6.8052
12
11.2551
10.5753
9.9540
9.3851
8.8633
8.3838
7.9427
7.5361
7.1607
13
12.1337
11.3484
10.6350
9.9856
9.3936
8.8527
8.3577
7.9038
7.4869
14
13.0037
12.1062
11.2961
10.5631
9.8986
9.2950
8.7455
8.2442
7.7862
15
13.8651
12.8493
11.9379
11.1184
10.3797
9.7122
9.1079
8.5595
8.0607
16
14.7179
13.5777
12.5611
11.6523
10.8378
10.1059
9.4466
8.8514
8.3126
17
15.5623
14.2919
13.1661
12.1657
11.2741
10.4773
9.7632
9.1216
8.5436
18
16.3983
14.9920
13.7535
12.6593
11.6896
10.8276
10.0591
9.3719
8.7556
19
17.2260
15.6785
14.3238
13.1339
12.0853
11.1581
10.3356
9.6036
8.9501
20
18.0456
16.3514
14.8775
13.5903
12.4622
11.4699
10.5940
9.8181
9.1285
21
18.8570
17.0112
15.4150
14.0292
12.8212
11.7641
10.8355
10.0168
9.2922
22
19.6604
17.6580
15.9369
14.4511
13.1630
12.0416
11.0612
10.2007
9.4424
23
20.4558
18.2922
16.4436
14.8568
13.4886
12.3034
11.2722
10.3741
9.5802
24
21.2434
18.9139
16.9355
15.2470
13.7986
12.5504
11.4693
10.5288
9.7066
25
22.0232
19.5235
17.4131
15.6221
14.0939
12.7834
11.6536
10.6748
9.8226
30
25.8077
22.3965
19.6004
17.2920
15.3725
13.7648
12.4090
11.2578
10.2737
40
32.8347
27.3555
23.1148
19.7928
17.1591
15.0463
13.3317
11.9246
10.7574
50
39.1961
31.4236
25.7298
21.4822
18.2559
15.7619
13.8007
12.2335
10.9617
Number of
Periods

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix A: Mathematical 
Tables
907
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Appendix A
Mathematical Tables
901
I TABLE A.2
(concluded)
Interest  Rate
10%
12%
14%
15%
16%
18%
20%
24%
28%
32%
0.9091
0.8929
0.8772
0.8696
0.8621
0.8475
0.8333
0.8065
0.7813
0.7576
1.7355
1.6901
1.6467
1.6257
1.6052
1.5656
1.5278
1.4568
1.3916
1.3315
2.4869
2.4018
2.3216
2.2832
2.2459
2.1743
2.1065
1.9813
1.8684
1.7663
3.1699
3.0373
2.9137
2.8550
2.7982
2.6901
2.5887
2.4043
2.2410
2.0957
3.7908
3.6048
3.4331
3.3522
3.2743
3.1272
2.9906
2.7454
2.5320
2.3452
4.3553
4.1114
3.8887
3.7845
3.6847
3.4976
3.3255
3.0205
2.7594
2.5342
4.8684
4.5638
4.2883
4.1604
4.0386
3.8115
3.6046
3.2423
2.9370
2.6775
5.3349
4.9676
4.6389
4.4873
4.3436
4.0776
3.8372
3.4212
3.0758
2.7860
5.7590
5.3282
4.9464
4.7716
4.6065
4.3030
4.0310
3.5655
3.1842
2.8681
6.1446
5.6502
5.2161
5.0188
4.8332
4.4941
4.1925
3.6819
3.2689
2.9304
6.4951
5.9377
5.4527
5.2337
5.0286
4.6560
4.3271
3.7757
3.3351
2.9776
6.8137
6.1944
5.6603
5.4206
5.1971
4.7932
4.4392
3.8514
3.3868
3.0133
7.1034
6.4235
5.8424
5.5831
5.3423
4.9095
4.5327
3.9124
3.4272
3.0404
7.3667
6.6282
6.0021
5.7245
5.4675
5.0081
4.6106
3.9616
3.4587
3.0609
7.6061
6.8109
6.1422
5.8474
5.5755
5.0916
4.6755
4.0013
3.4834
3.0764
7.8237
6.9740
6.2651
5.9542
5.6685
5.1624
4.7296
4.0333
3.5026
3.0882
8.0216
7.1196
6.3729
6.0472
5.7487
5.2223
4.7746
4.0591
3.5177
3.0971
8.2014
7.2497
6.4674
6.1280
5.8178
5.2732
4.8122
4.0799
3.5294
3.1039
8.3649
7.3658
6.5504
6.1982
5.8775
5.3162
4.8435
4.0967
3.5386
3.1090
8.5136
7.4694
6.6231
6.2593
5.9288
5.3527
4.8696
4.1103
3.5458
3.1129
8.6487
7.5620
6.6870
6.3125
5.9731
5.3837
4.8913
4.1212
3.5514
3.1158
8.7715
7.6446
6.7429
6.3587
6.0113
5.4099
4.9094
4.1300
3.5558
3.1180
8.8832
7.7184
6.7921
6.3988
6.0442
5.4321
4.9245
4.1371
3.5592
3.1197
8.9847
7.7843
6.8351
6.4338
6.0726
5.4509
4.9371
4.1428
3.5619
3.1210
9.0770
7.8431
6.8729
6.4641
6.0971
5.4669
4.9476
4.1474
3.5640
3.1220
9.4269
8.0552
7.0027
6.5660
6.1772
5.5168
4.9789
4.1601
3.5693
3.1242
9.7791
8.2438
7.1050
6.6418
6.2335
5.5482
4.9966
4.1659
3.5712
3.1250
9.9148
8.3045
7.1327
6.6605
6.2463
5.5541
4.9995
4.1666
3.5714
3.1250

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix A: Mathematical 
Tables
908
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
902
Appendix A
Mathematical Tables
I TABLE A.3
Future Value of $1 at the End of T Periods  (1  r)T
Interest  Rate
Period
1%
2%
3%
4%
5%
6%
7%
8%
9%
1
1.0100
1.0200
1.0300
1.0400
1.0500
1.0600
1.0700
1.0800
1.0900
2
1.0201
1.0404
1.0609
1.0816
1.1025
1.1236
1.1449
1.1664
1.1881
3
1.0303
1.0612
1.0927
1.1249
1.1576
1.1910
1.2250
1.2597
1.2950
4
1.0406
1.0824
1.1255
1.1699
1.2155
1.2625
1.3108
1.3605
1.4116
5
1.0510
1.1041
1.1593
1.2167
1.2763
1.3382
1.4026
1.4693
1.5386
6
1.0615
1.1262
1.1941
1.2653
1.3401
1.4185
1.5007
1.5869
1.6771
7
1.0721
1.1487
1.2299
1.3159
1.4071
1.5036
1.6058
1.7138
1.8280
8
1.0829
1.1717
1.2668
1.3686
1.4775
1.5938
1.7182
1.8509
1.9926
9
1.0937
1.1951
1.3048
1.4233
1.5513
1.6895
1.8385
1.9990
2.1719
10
1.1046
1.2190
1.3439
1.4802
1.6289
1.7908
1.9672
2.1589
2.3674
11
1.1157
1.2434
1.3842
1.5395
1.7103
1.8983
2.1049
2.3316
2.5804
12
1.1268
1.2682
1.4258
1.6010
1.7959
2.0122
2.2522
2.5182
2.8127
13
1.1381
1.2936
1.4685
1.6651
1.8856
2.1329
2.4098
2.7196
3.0658
14
1.1495
1.3195
1.5126
1.7317
1.9799
2.2609
2.5785
2.9372
3.3417
15
1.1610
1.3459
1.5580
1.8009
2.0789
2.3966
2.7590
3.1722
3.6425
16
1.1726
1.3728
1.6047
1.8730
2.1829
2.5404
2.9522
3.4259
3.9703
17
1.1843
1.4002
1.6528
1.9479
2.2920
2.6928
3.1588
3.7000
4.3276
18
1.1961
1.4282
1.7024
2.0258
2.4066
2.8543
3.3799
3.9960
4.7171
19
1.2081
1.4568
1.7535
2.1068
2.5270
3.0256
3.6165
4.3157
5.1417
20
1.2202
1.4859
1.8061
2.1911
2.6533
3.2071
3.8697
4.6610
5.6044
21
1.2324
1.5157
1.8603
2.2788
2.7860
3.3996
4.1406
5.0338
6.1088
22
1.2447
1.5460
1.9161
2.3699
2.9253
3.6035
4.4304
5.4365
6.6586
23
1.2572
1.5769
1.9736
2.4647
3.0715
3.8197
4.7405
5.8715
7.2579
24
1.2697
1.6084
2.0328
2.5633
3.2251
4.0489
5.0724
6.3412
7.9111
25
1.2824
1.6406
2.0938
2.6658
3.3864
4.2919
5.4274
6.8485
8.6231
30
1.3478
1.8114
2.4273
3.2434
4.3219
5.7435
7.6123
10.063
13.268
40
1.4889
2.2080
3.2620
4.8010
7.0400
10.286
14.974
21.725
31.409
50
1.6446
2.6916
4.3839
7.1067
11.467
18.420
29.457
46.902
74.358
60
1.8167
3.2810
5.8916
10.520
18.679
32.988
57.946
101.26
176.03
*FVIV  99,999.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix A: Mathematical 
Tables
909
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Appendix A
Mathematical Tables
903
I TABLE A.3
(concluded)
Interest  Rate
10%
12%
14%
15%
16%
18%
20%
24%
28%
32%
36%
1.1000
1.1200
1.1400
1.1500
1.1600
1.1800
1.2000
1.2400
1.2800
1.3200
1.3600
1.2100
1.2544
1.2996
1.3225
1.3456
1.3924
1.4400
1.5376
1.6384
1.7424
1.8496
1.3310
1.4049
1.4815
1.5209
1.5609
1.6430
1.7280
1.9066
2.0972
2.3000
2.5155
1.4641
1.5735
1.6890
1.7490
1.8106
1.9388
2.0736
2.3642
2.6844
3.0360
3.4210
1.6105
1.7623
1.9254
2.0114
2.1003
2.2878
2.4883
2.9316
3.4360
4.0075
4.6526
1.7716
1.9738
2.1950
2.3131
2.4364
2.6996
2.9860
3.6352
4.3980
5.2899
6.3275
1.9487
2.2107
2.5023
2.6600
2.8262
3.1855
3.5832
4.5077
5.6295
6.9826
8.6054
2.1436
2.4760
2.8526
3.0590
3.2784
3.7589
4.2998
5.5895
7.2058
9.2170
11.703
2.3579
2.7731
3.2519
3.5179
3.8030
4.4355
5.1598
6.9310
9.2234
12.166
15.917
2.5937
3.1058
3.7072
4.0456
4.4114
5.2338
6.1917
8.5944
11.806
16.060
21.647
2.8531
3.4785
4.2262
4.6524
5.1173
6.1759
7.4301
10.657
15.112
21.199
29.439
3.1384
3.8960
4.8179
5.3503
5.9360
7.2876
8.9161
13.215
19.343
27.983
40.037
3.4523
4.3635
5.4924
6.1528
6.8858
8.5994
10.699
16.386
24.759
36.937
54.451
3.7975
4.8871
6.2613
7.0757
7.9875
10.147
12.839
20.319
31.691
48.757
74.053
4.1772
5.4736
7.1379
8.1371
9.2655
11.974
15.407
25.196
40.565
64.359
100.71
4.5950
6.1304
8.1372
9.3576
10.748
14.129
18.488
31.243
51.923
84.954
136.97
5.0545
6.8660
9.2765
10.761
12.468
16.672
22.186
38.741
66.461
112.14
186.28
5.5599
7.6900
10.575
12.375
14.463
19.673
26.623
48.039
86.071
148.02
253.34
6.1159
8.6128
12.056
14.232
16.777
23.214
31.948
59.568
108.89
195.39
344.54
6.7275
9.6463
13.743
16.367
19.461
27.393
38.338
73.864
139.38
257.92
468.57
7.4002
10.804
15.668
18.822
22.574
32.324
46.005
91.592
178.41
340.45
637.26
8.1403
12.100
17.861
21.645
26.186
38.142
55.206
113.57
228.36
449.39
866.67
8.9543
13.552
20.362
24.891
30.376
45.008
66.247
140.83
292.30
593.20
1178.7
9.8497
15.179
23.212
28.625
35.236
53.109
79.497
174.63
374.14
783.02
1603.0
10.835
17.000
26.462
32.919
40.874
62.669
95.396
216.54
478.90
1033.6
2180.1
17.449
29.960
50.950
66.212
85.850
143.37
237.38
634.82
1645.5
4142.1
10143.
45.259
93.051
188.88
267.86
378.72
750.38
1469.8
5455.9
19427.
66521.
*
117.39
289.00
700.23
1083.7
1670.7
3927.4
9100.4
46890.
*
*
*
304.48
897.60
2595.9
4384.0
7370.2
20555.
56348.
*
*
*
*

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix A: Mathematical 
Tables
910
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
904
Appendix A
Mathematical Tables
I TABLE A.4
Sum of Annuity of $1 per Period for T Periods  [(1  r)T 1]/r
Interest  Rate
1%
2%
3%
4%
5%
6%
7%
8%
9%
1
1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
2
2.0100
2.0200
2.0300
2.0400
2.0500
2.0600
2.0700
2.0800
2.0900
3
3.0301
3.0604
3.0909
3.1216
3.1525
3.1836
3.2149
3.2464
3.2781
4
4.0604
4.1216
4.1836
4.2465
4.3101
4.3746
4.4399
4.5061
4.5731
5
5.1010
5.2040
5.3091
5.4163
5.5256
5.6371
5.7507
5.8666
5.9847
6
6.1520
6.3081
6.4684
6.6330
6.8019
6.9753
7.1533
7.3359
7.5233
7
7.2135
7.4343
7.6625
7.8983
8.1420
8.3938
8.6540
8.9228
9.2004
8
8.2857
8.5830
8.8932
9.2142
9.5491
9.8975
10.260
10.637
11.028
9
9.3685
9.7546
10.159
10.583
11.027
11.491
11.978
12.488
13.021
10
10.462
10.950
11.464
12.006
12.578
13.181
13.816
14.487
15.193
11
11.567
12.169
12.808
13.486
14.207
14.972
15.784
16.645
17.560
12
12.683
13.412
14.192
15.026
15.917
16.870
17.888
18.977
20.141
13
13.809
14.680
15.618
16.627
17.713
18.882
20.141
21.495
22.953
14
14.947
15.974
17.086
18.292
19.599
21.015
22.550
24.215
26.019
15
16.097
17.293
18.599
20.024
21.579
23.276
25.129
27.152
29.361
16
17.258
18.639
20.157
21.825
23.657
25.673
27.888
30.324
33.003
17
18.430
20.012
21.762
23.698
25.840
28.213
30.840
33.750
36.974
18
19.615
21.412
23.414
25.645
28.132
30.906
33.999
37.450
41.301
19
20.811
22.841
25.117
27.671
30.539
33.760
37.379
41.446
46.018
20
22.019
24.297
26.870
29.778
33.066
36.786
40.995
45.762
51.160
21
23.239
25.783
28.676
31.969
35.719
39.993
44.865
50.423
56.765
22
24.472
27.299
30.537
34.248
38.505
43.392
49.006
55.457
62.873
23
25.716
28.845
32.453
36.618
41.430
46.996
53.436
60.893
69.532
24
26.973
30.422
34.426
39.083
44.502
50.816
58.177
66.765
76.790
25
28.243
32.030
36.459
41.646
47.727
54.865
63.249
73.106
84.701
30
34.785
40.568
47.575
56.085
66.439
79.058
94.461
113.28
136.31
40
48.886
60.402
75.401
95.026
120.80
154.76
199.64
259.06
337.88
50
64.463
84.579
112.80
152.67
209.35
290.34
406.53
573.77
815.08
60
81.670
114.05
163.05
237.99
353.58
533.13
813.52
1253.2
1944.8
*FVIFA  99,999.
Number of
Periods

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix A: Mathematical 
Tables
911
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Appendix A
Mathematical Tables
905
I TABLE A.4
(concluded)
Interest  Rate
10%
12%
14%
15%
16%
18%
20%
24%
28%
32%
36%
1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
2.1000
2.1200
2.1400
2.1500
2.1600
2.1800
2.2000
2.2400
2.2800
2.3200
2.3600
3.3100
3.3744
3.4396
3.4725
3.5056
3.5724
3.6400
3.7776
3.9184
4.0624
4.2096
3.6410
4.7793
4.9211
4.9934
5.0665
5.2154
5.3680
5.6842
6.0156
6.3624
6.7251
6.1051
6.3528
6.6101
6.7424
6.8771
7.1542
7.4416
8.0484
8.6999
9.3983
10.146
7.7156
8.1152
8.5355
8.7537
8.9775
9.4420
9.9299
10.980
12.136
13.406
14.799
9.4872
10.089
10.730
11.067
11.414
12.142
12.916
14.615
16.534
18.696
21.126
11.436
12.300
13.233
13.727
14.240
15.327
16.499
19.123
22.163
25.678
29.732
13.579
14.776
16.085
16.786
17.519
19.086
20.799
24.712
29.369
34.895
41.435
15.937
17.549
19.337
20.304
21.321
23.521
25.959
31.643
38.593
47.062
57.352
18.531
20.655
23.045
24.349
25.733
28.755
32.150
40.238
50.398
63.122
78.998
21.384
24.133
27.271
29.002
30.850
34.931
39.581
50.895
65.510
84.320
108.44
24.523
28.029
32.089
34.352
36.786
42.219
48.497
64.110
84.853
112.30
148.47
27.975
32.393
37.581
40.505
43.672
50.818
59.196
80.496
109.61
149.24
202.93
31.772
37.280
43.842
47.580
51.660
60.965
72.035
100.82
141.30
198.00
276.98
35.950
42.753
50.980
55.717
60.925
72.939
87.442
126.01
181.87
262.36
377.69
40.545
48.884
59.118
65.075
71.673
87.068
105.93
157.25
233.79
347.31
514.66
45.599
55.750
68.394
75.836
84.141
103.74
128.12
195.99
300.25
459.45
700.94
51.159
64.440
78.969
88.212
98.603
123.41
154.74
244.03
385.32
607.47
954.28
57.275
72.052
91.025
102.44
115.38
146.63
186.69
303.60
494.21
802.86
1298.8
64.002
81.699
104.77
118.81
134.84
174.02
225.03
377.46
633.59
1060.8
1767.4
71.403
92.503
120.44
137.63
157.41
206.34
271.03
469.06
812.00
1401.2
2404.7
79.543
104.60
138.30
159.28
183.60
244.49
326.24
582.63
1040.4
1850.6
3271.3
88.497
118.16
158.66
184.17
213.98
289.49
392.48
723.46
1332.7
2443.8
4450.0
98.347
133.33
181.87
212.79
249.21
342.60
471.98
898.09
1706.8
3226.8
6053.0
164.49
241.33
356.79
434.75
530.31
790.95
1181.9
2640.9
5873.2
12941.
28172.3
442.59
767.09
1342.0
1779.1
2360.8
4163.2
7343.9
22729.
69377.
*
*
1163.9
2400.0
4994.5
7217.7
10436.
21813.
45497.
*
*
*
*
3034.8
7471.6
18535.
29220.
46058.
*
*
*
*
*
*

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix A: Mathematical 
Tables
912
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
906
Appendix A
Mathematical Tables
I TABLE A.5
Future Value of $1 with a Continuously Compounded Rate r for T Periods: Values of erT
Continuously Compounded Rate (r)
1%
2%
3%
4%
5%
6%
7%
8%
9%
10%
1
1.0101
1.0202
1.0305
1.0408
1.0513
1.0618
1.0725
1.0833
1.0942
1.1052
2
1.0202
1.0408
1.0618
1.0833
1.1052
1.1275
1.1503
1.1735
1.1972
1.2214
3
1.0305
1.0618
1.0942
1.1275
1.1618
1.1972
1.2337
1.2712
1.3100
1.3499
4
1.0408
1.0833
1.1275
1.1735
1.2214
1.2712
1.3231
1.3771
1.4333
1.4918
5
1.0513
1.1052
1.1618
1.2214
1.2840
1.3499
1.4191
1.4918
1.5683
1.6487
6
1.0618
1.1275
1.1972
1.2712
1.3499
1.4333
1.5220
1.6161
1.7160
1.8221
7
1.0725
1.1503
1.2337
1.3231
1.4191
1.5220
1.6323
1.7507
1.8776
2.0138
8
1.0833
1.1735
1.2712
1.3771
1.4918
1.6161
1.7507
1.8965
2.0544
2.2255
9
1.0942
1.1972
1.3100
1.4333
1.5683
1.7160
1.8776
2.0544
2.2479
2.4596
10
1.1052
1.2214
1.3499
1.4918
1.6487
1.8221
2.0138
2.2255
2.4596
2.7183
11
1.1163
1.2461
1.3910
1.5527
1.7333
1.9348
2.1598
2.4109
2.6912
3.0042
12
1.1275
1.2712
1.4333
1.6161
1.8221
2.0544
2.3164
2.6117
2.9447
3.3201
13
1.1388
1.2969
1.4770
1.6820
1.9155
2.1815
2.4843
2.8292
3.2220
3.6693
14
1.1503
1.3231
1.5220
1.7507
2.0138
2.3164
2.6645
3.0649
3.5254
4.0552
15
1.1618
1.3499
1.5683
1.8221
2.1170
2.4596
2.8577
3.3201
3.8574
4.4817
16
1.1735
1.3771
1.6161
1.8965
2.2255
2.6117
3.0649
3.5966
4.2207
4.9530
17
1.1853
1.4049
1.6653
1.9739
2.3396
2.7732
3.2871
3.8962
4.6182
5.4739
18
1.1972
1.4333
1.7160
2.0544
2.4596
2.9447
3.5254
4.2207
5.0531
6.0496
19
1.2092
1.4623
1.7683
2.1383
2.5857
3.1268
3.7810
4.5722
5.5290
6.6859
20
1.2214
1.4918
1.8221
2.2255
2.7183
3.3201
4.0552
4.9530
6.0496
7.3891
21
1.2337
1.5220
1.8776
2.3164
2.8577
3.5254
4.3492
5.3656
6.6194
8.1662
22
1.2461
1.5527
1.9348
2.4109
3.0042
3.7434
4.6646
5.8124
7.2427
9.0250
23
1.2586
1.5841
1.9937
2.5093
3.1582
3.9749
5.0028
6.2965
7.9248
9.9742
24
1.2712
1.6161
2.0544
2.6117
3.3201
4.2207
5.3656
6.8210
8.6711
11.0232
25
1.2840
1.6487
2.1170
2.7183
3.4903
4.4817
5.7546
7.3891
9.4877
12.1825
30
1.3499
1.8221
2.4596
3.3204
4.4817
6.0496
8.1662
11.0232
14.8797
20.0855
35
1.4191
2.0138
2.8577
4.0552
5.7546
8.1662
11.5883
16.4446
23.3361
33.1155
40
1.4918
2.2255
3.3201
4.9530
7.3891
11.0232
16.4446
24.5235
36.5982
54.5982
45
1.5683
2.4596
3.8574
6.0496
9.4877
14.8797
23.3361
36.5982
57.3975
90.0171
50
1.6487
2.7183
4.4817
7.3891
12.1825
20.0855
33.1155
54.5982
90.0171
148.4132
55
1.7333
3.0042
5.2070
9.0250
15.6426
27.1126
46.9931
81.4509
141.1750
244.6919
60
1.8221
3.3201
6.0496
11.0232
20.0855
36.5982
66.6863 121.5104
221.4064
403.4288
Period
(T)

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix A: Mathematical 
Tables
913
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Appendix A
Mathematical Tables
907
I TABLE A.5
(continued)
Continuously Compounded Rate (r)
11%
12%
13%
14%
15%
16%
17%
18%
19%
20%
21%
1.1163
1.1275
1.1388
1.1503
1.1618
1.1735
1.1853
1.1972
1.2092
1.2214
1.2337
1.2461
1.2712
1.2969
1.3231
1.3499
1.3771
1.4049
1.4333
1.4623
1.4918
1.5220
1.3910
1.4333
1.4770
1.5220
1.5683
1.6161
1.6653
1.7160
1.7683
1.8221
1.8776
1.5527
1.6161
1.6820
1.7507
1.8221
1.8965
1.9739
2.0544
2.1383
2.2255
2.3164
1.7333
1.8221
1.9155
2.0138
2.1170
2.2255
2.3396
2.4596
2.5857
2.7183
2.8577
1.9348
2.0544
2.1815
2.3164
2.4596
2.6117
2.7732
2.9447
3.1268
3.3201
3.5254
2.1598
2.3164
2.4843
2.6645
2.8577
3.0649
3.2871
3.5254
3.7810
4.0552
4.3492
2.4109
2.6117
2.8292
3.0649
3.3201
3.5966
3.8962
4.2207
4.5722
4.9530
5.3656
2.6912
2.9447
3.2220
3.5254
3.8574
4.2207
4.6182
5.0531
5.5290
6.0496
6.6194
3.0042
3.3201
3.6693
4.0552
4.4817
4.9530
5.4739
6.0496
6.6859
7.3891
8.1662
3.3535
3.7434
4.1787
4.6646
5.2070
5.8124
6.4883
7.2427
8.0849
9.0250
10.0744
3.7434
4.2207
4.7588
5.3656
6.0496
6.8210
7.6906
8.6711
9.7767
11.0232
12.4286
4.1787
4.7588
5.4195
6.1719
7.0287
8.0045
9.1157
10.3812
11.8224
13.4637
15.3329
4.6646
5.3656
6.1719
7.0993
8.1662
9.3933
10.8049
12.4286
14.2963
16.4446
18.9158
5.2070
6.0496
7.0287
8.1662
9.4877
11.0232
12.0871
14.8797
17.2878
20.0855
23.3361
5.8124
6.8210
8.0045
9.3933
11.0232
12.9358
15.1803
17.8143
20.9052
24.5325
28.7892
6.4883
7.6906
9.1157
10.8049
12.8071
15.1803
17.9933
21.3276
25.2797
29.9641
35.5166
7.2427
8.6711
10.3812
12.4286
14.8797
17.8143
21.3276
25.5337
30.5694
36.5982
43.8160
8.0849
9.7767
11.8224
14.2963
17.2878
20.9052
25.2797
30.5694
36.9661
44.7012
54.0549
9.0250
11.0232
13.4637
16.4446
20.0855
24.5325
29.9641
36.5982
44.7012
54.5982
66.6863
10.0744
12.4286
15.3329
18.9158
23.3361
28.7892
35.5166
43.8160
54.0549
66.6863
82.2695
11.2459
14.0132
17.4615
21.7584
27.1126
33.7844
42.0980
52.4573
65.3659
81.4509 101.4940
12.5535
15.7998
19.8857
25.0281
31.5004
39.6464
49.8990
62.8028
79.0436
99.4843 125.2110
14.0132
17.8143
22.6464
28.7892
36.5982
46.5255
59.1455
75.1886
95.5835
121.5104 154.4700
15.6426
20.0855
25.7903
33.1155
42.5211
54.5982
70.1054
90.0171
115.5843
148.4132 190.5663
27.1126
36.5982
49.4024
66.6863
90.0171
121.5104
164.0219
221.4064
298.8674
403.4288 544.5719
46.9931
66.6863
94.6324 134.2898
190.5663
270.4264
383.7533
544.5719
772.7843
1096.633 1556.197
81.4509
121.5104 181.2722 270.4264
403.4288
601.8450
897.8473
1339.431
1998.196
2980.958 4447.067
141.1750
221.4064 347.2344 544.5719
854.0588
1339.431
2100.646
3294.468
5166.754
8103.084 12708.17
244.6919
403.4288 665.1416 1096.633
1808.042
2980.958
4914.769
8103.084
13359.73
22026.47 36315.50
424.1130
735.0952 1274.106 2208.348
3827.626
6634.244
11498.82
19930.37
34544.37
59874.14 103777.0
735.0952 1339.431 2440.602 4447.067
8103.084
14764.78
26903.19
49020.80
89321.72
162754.8 296558.6

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix A: Mathematical 
Tables
914
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
908
Appendix A
Mathematical Tables
I TABLE A.5
(concluded)
Continuously Compounded Rate (r)
22%
23%
24%
25%
26%
27%
28%
1
1.2461
1.2586
1.2712
1.2840
1.2969
1.3100
1.3231
2
1.5527
1.5841
1.6161
1.6487
1.6820
1.7160
1.7507
3
1.9348
1.9937
2.0544
2.1170
2.1815
2.2479
2.3164
4
2.4109
2.5093
2.6117
2.7183
2.8292
2.9447
3.0649
5
3.0042
3.1582
3.3201
3.4903
3.6693
3.8574
4.0552
6
3.7434
3.9749
4.2207
4.4817
4.7588
5.0351
5.3656
7
4.6646
5.0028
5.3656
5.7546
6.1719
6.6194
7.0993
8
5.8124
6.2965
6.8210
7.3891
8.0045
8.6711
9.3933
9
7.2427
7.9248
8.6711
9.4877
10.3812
11.3589
12.4286
10
9.0250
9.9742
11.0232
12.1825
13.4637
14.8797
16.4446
11
11.2459
12.5535
14.0132
15.6426
17.4615
19.4919
21.7584
12
14.0132
15.7998
17.8143
20.0855
22.6464
25.5337
28.7892
13
17.4615
19.8857
22.6464
25.7903
29.3708
33.4483
38.0918
14
21.7584
25.0281
28.7892
33.1155
38.0918
43.8160
50.4004
15
27.1126
31.5004
36.5982
42.5211
49.4024
57.3975
66.6863
16
33.7844
39.6464
46.5255
54.5982
64.0715
75.1886
88.2347
17
42.0980
49.8990
59.1455
70.1054
83.0963
98.4944
116.7459
18
52.4573
62.8028
75.1886
90.0171
107.7701
129.0242
154.4700
19
65.3659
79.0436
95.5835
115.5843
139.7702
169.0171
204.3839
20
81.4509
99.4843
121.5104
148.4132
181.2722
221.4064
270.4264
21
101.4940
125.2110
154.4700
190.5663
235.0974
290.0345
357.8092
22
126.4694
157.5905
196.3699
244.6919
304.9049
379.9349
473.4281
23
157.5905
198.3434
249.6350
314.1907
395.4404
497.7013
626.4068
24
196.3699
249.6350
317.3483
403.4288
512.8585
651.9709
828.8175
25
244.6919
314.1907
403.4288
518.0128
665.1416
854.0588
1096.633
30
735.0952
992.2747
1339.431
1808.042
2440.602
3294.468
4447.067
35
2208.348
3133.795
4447.067
6310.688
8955.293
12708.17
18033.74
40
6634.244
9897.129
14764.78
22026.47
32859.63
49020.80
73130.44
45
19930.37
31257.04
49020.80
76879.92
120571.7
189094.1
296558.6
50
59874.14
98715.77
162754.8
268337.3
442413.4
729416.4
1202604
55
179871.9
311763.4
540364.9
936589.2
1623346
2813669
4876801
60
540364.9
984609.1
1794075
3269017
5956538
10853520
19776403
Period
(T)

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix A: Mathematical 
Tables
915
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Appendix A
Mathematical Tables
909
I TABLE A.6
Present Value of $1 with a Continuous Discount Rate r for T Periods: Values of erT
Continuous Discount Rate (r)
1%
2%
3%
4%
5%
6%
7%
1
0.9900
0.9802
0.9704
0.9608
0.9512
0.9418
0.9324
2
0.9802
0.9608
0.9418
0.9231
0.9048
0.8869
0.8694
3
0.9704
0.9418
0.9139
0.8869
0.8607
0.8353
0.8106
4
0.9608
0.9231
0.8869
0.8521
0.8187
0.7866
0.7558
5
0.9512
0.9048
0.8607
0.8187
0.7788
0.7408
0.7047
6
0.9418
0.8869
0.8353
0.7866
0.7408
0.6977
0.6570
7
0.9324
0.8694
0.8106
0.7558
0.7047
0.6570
0.6126
8
0.9231
0.8521
0.7866
0.7261
0.6703
0.6188
0.5712
9
0.9139
0.8353
0.7634
0.6977
0.6376
0.5827
0.5326
10
0.9048
0.8187
0.7408
0.6703
0.6065
0.5488
0.4966
11
0.8958
0.8025
0.7189
0.6440
0.5769
0.5169
0.4630
12
0.8869
0.7866
0.6977
0.6188
0.5488
0.4868
0.4317
13
0.8781
0.7711
0.6771
0.5945
0.5220
0.4584
0.4025
14
0.8694
0.7558
0.6570
0.5712
0.4966
0.4317
0.3753
15
0.8607
0.7408
0.6376
0.5488
0.4724
0.4066
0.3499
16
0.8521
0.7261
0.6188
0.5273
0.4493
0.3829
0.3263
17
0.8437
0.7118
0.6005
0.5066
0.4274
0.3606
0.3042
18
0.8353
0.6977
0.5827
0.4868
0.4066
0.3396
0.2837
19
0.8270
0.6839
0.5655
0.4677
0.3867
0.3198
0.2645
20
0.8187
0.6703
0.5488
0.4493
0.3679
0.3012
0.2466
21
0.8106
0.6570
0.5326
0.4317
0.3499
0.2837
0.2299
22
0.8025
0.6440
0.5169
0.4148
0.3329
0.2671
0.2144
23
0.7945
0.6313
0.5016
0.3985
0.3166
0.2516
0.1999
24
0.7866
0.6188
0.4868
0.3829
0.3012
0.2369
0.1864
25
0.7788
0.6065
0.4724
0.3679
0.2865
0.2231
0.1738
30
0.7408
0.5488
0.4066
0.3012
0.2231
0.1653
0.1225
35
0.7047
0.4966
0.3499
0.2466
0.1738
0.1225
0.0863
40
0.6703
0.4493
0.3012
0.2019
0.1353
0.0907
0.0608
45
0.6376
0.4066
0.2592
0.1653
0.1054
0.0672
0.0429
50
0.6065
0.3679
0.2231
0.1353
0.0821
0.0498
0.0302
55
0.5769
0.3329
0.1920
0.1108
0.0639
0.0369
0.0213
60
0.5488
0.3012
0.1653
0.0907
0.0498
0.0273
0.0150
Period
(T)

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix A: Mathematical 
Tables
916
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
910
Appendix A
Mathematical Tables
I TABLE A.6
(continued)
Continuous Discount Rate (r)
8%
9%
10%
11%
12%
13%
14%
15%
16%
17%
1
0.9231
0.9139
0.9048
0.8958
0.8869
0.8781
0.8694
0.8607
0.8521
0.8437
2
0.8521
0.8353
0.8187
0.8025
0.7866
0.7711
0.7558
0.7408
0.7261
0.7118
3
0.7866
0.7634
0.7408
0.7189
0.6977
0.6771
0.6570
0.6376
0.6188
0.6005
4
0.7261
0.6977
0.6703
0.6440
0.6188
0.5945
0.5712
0.5488
0.5273
0.5066
5
0.6703
0.6376
0.6065
0.5769
0.5488
0.5220
0.4966
0.4724
0.4493
0.4274
6
0.6188
0.5827
0.5488
0.5169
.04868
0.4584
0.4317
0.4066
0.3829
0.3606
7
0.5712
0.5326
0.4966
0.4630
0.4317
0.4025
0.3753
0.3499
0.3263
0.3042
8
0.5273
0.4868
0.4493
0.4148
0.3829
0.3535
0.3263
0.3012
0.2780
0.2576
9
0.4868
0.4449
0.4066
0.3716
0.3396
0.3104
0.2837
0.2592
0.2369
0.2165
10
0.4493
0.4066
0.3679
0.3329
0.3012
0.2725
0.2466
0.2231
0.2019
0.1827
11
0.4148
0.3716
0.3329
0.2982
0.2671
0.2393
0.2144
0.1920
0.1720
0.1541
12
0.3829
0.3396
0.3012
0.2671
0.2369
0.2101
0.1864
0.1653
0.1466
0.1300
13
0.3535
0.3104
0.2725
0.2393
0.2101
0.1845
0.1620
0.1423
0.1249
0.1097
14
0.3263
0.2837
0.2466
0.2144
0.1864
0.1620
0.1409
0.1225
0.1065
0.0926
15
0.3012
0.2592
0.2231
0.1920
0.1653
0.1423
0.1225
0.1054
0.0907
0.0781
16
0.2780
0.2369
0.2019
0.1720
0.1466
0.1249
0.1065
0.0907
0.0773
0.0659
17
0.2567
0.2165
0.1827
0.1541
0.1300
0.1097
0.0926
0.0781
0.0659
0.0556
18
0.2369
0.1979
0.1653
0.1381
0.1153
0.0963
0.0805
0.0672
0.0561
0.0469
19
0.2187
0.1809
0.1496
0.1237
0.1023
0.0846
0.0699
0.0578
0.0478
0.0396
20
0.2019
0.1653
0.1353
0.1108
0.0907
0.0743
0.0608
0.0498
0.0408
0.0334
21
0.1864
0.1511
0.1225
0.0993
0.0805
0.0652
0.0529
0.0429
0.0347
0.0282
22
0.1720
0.1381
0.1108
0.0889
0.0714
0.0573
0.0460
0.0369
0.0296
0.0238
23
0.1588
0.1262
0.1003
0.0797
0.0633
0.0503
0.0400
0.0317
0.0252
0.0200
24
0.1466
0.1153
0.0907
0.0714
0.0561
0.0442
0.0347
0.0273
0.0215
0.0169
25
0.1353
0.1054
0.0821
0.0639
0.0498
0.0388
0.0302
0.0235
0.0183
0.0143
30
0.0907
0.0672
0.0498
0.0369
0.0273
0.0202
0.0150
0.0111
0.0082
0.0061
35
0.0608
0.0429
0.0302
0.0213
0.0150
0.0106
0.0074
0.0052
0.0037
0.0026
40
0.0408
0.0273
0.0183
0.0123
0.0082
0.0055
0.0037
0.0025
0.0017
0.0011
45
0.0273
0.0174
0.0111
0.0071
0.0045
0.0029
0.0018
0.0012
0.0007
0.0005
50
0.0183
0.0111
0.0067
0.0041
0.0025
0.0015
0.0009
0.0006
0.0003
0.0002
55
0.0123
0.0071
0.0041
0.0024
0.0014
0.0008
0.0005
0.0003
0.0002
0.0001
60
0.0082
0.0045
0.0025
0.0014
0.0007
0.0004
0.0002
0.0001
0.0001
0.0000
Period
(T)

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix A: Mathematical 
Tables
917
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Appendix A
Mathematical Tables
911
I TABLE A.6
(continued)
Continuous Discount Rate (r)
18%
19%
20%
21%
22%
23%
24%
25%
26%
27%
28%
0.8353
0.8270
0.8187
0.8106
0.8025
0.7945
0.7866
0.7788
0.7711
0.7634
0.7558
0.6977
0.6839
0.6703
0.6570
0.6440
0.6313
0.6188
0.6065
0.5945
0.5827
0.5712
0.5827
0.5655
0.5488
0.5326
0.5169
0.5016
0.4868
0.4724
0.4584
0.4449
0.4317
0.4868
0.4677
0.4493
0.4317
0.4148
0.3985
0.3829
0.3679
0.3535
0.3396
0.3263
0.4066
0.3867
0.3679
0.3499
0.3329
0.3166
0.3012
0.2865
0.2725
0.2592
0.2466
0.3396
0.3198
0.3012
0.2837
0.2671
0.2516
0.2369
0.2231
0.2101
0.1979
0.1864
0.2837
0.2645
0.2466
0.2299
0.2144
0.1999
0.1864
0.1738
0.1620
0.1511
0.1409
0.2369
0.2187
0.2019
0.1864
0.1720
0.1588
0.1466
0.1353
0.1249
0.1153
0.1065
0.1979
0.1809
0.1653
0.1511
0.1381
0.1262
0.1153
0.1054
0.0963
0.0880
0.0805
0.1653
0.1496
0.1353
0.1225
0.1108
0.1003
0.0907
0.0821
0.0743
0.0672
0.0608
0.1381
0.1237
0.1108
0.0993
0.0889
0.0797
0.0714
0.0639
0.0573
0.0513
0.0460
0.1154
0.1023
0.0907
0.0805
0.0714
0.0633
0.0561
0.0498
0.0442
0.0392
0.0347
0.0963
0.0846
0.0743
0.0652
0.0573
0.0503
0.0442
0.0388
0.0340
0.0299
0.0263
0.0805
0.0699
0.0608
0.0529
0.0460
0.0400
0.0347
0.0302
0.0263
0.0228
0.0198
0.0672
0.0578
0.0498
0.0429
0.0369
0.0317
0.0273
0.0235
0.0202
0.0174
0.0150
0.0561
0.0478
0.0408
0.0347
0.0296
0.0252
0.0215
0.0183
0.0156
0.0133
0.0113
0.0469
0.0396
0.0334
0.0282
0.0238
0.0200
0.0169
0.0143
0.0120
0.0102
0.0086
0.0392
0.0327
0.0273
0.0228
0.0191
0.0159
0.0133
0.0111
0.0093
0.0078
0.0065
0.0327
0.0271
0.0224
0.0185
0.0153
0.0127
0.0105
0.0087
0.0072
0.0059
0.0049
0.0273
0.0224
0.0183
0.0150
0.0123
0.0101
0.0082
0.0067
0.0055
0.0045
0.0037
0.0228
0.0185
0.0150
0.0122
0.0099
0.0080
0.0065
0.0052
0.0043
0.0034
0.0028
0.0191
0.0153
0.0123
0.0099
0.0079
0.0063
0.0051
0.0041
0.0033
0.0026
0.0021
0.0159
0.0127
0.0101
0.0080
0.0063
0.0050
0.0040
0.0032
0.0025
0.0020
0.0016
0.0133
0.0105
0.0082
0.0065
0.0051
0.0040
0.0032
0.0025
0.0019
0.0015
0.0012
0.0111
0.0087
0.0067
0.0052
0.0041
0.0032
0.0025
0.0019
0.0015
0.0012
0.0009
0.0045
0.0033
0.0025
0.0018
0.0014
0.0010
0.0007
0.0006
0.0004
0.0003
0.0002
0.0018
0.0013
0.0009
0.0006
0.0005
0.0003
0.0002
0.0002
0.0001
0.0001
0.0001
0.0007
0.0005
0.0003
0.0002
0.0002
0.0001
0.0001
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0003
0.0002
0.0001
0.0001
0.0001
0.0000 
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0001
0.0001
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0001
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix A: Mathematical 
Tables
918
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
912
Appendix A
Mathematical Tables
I TABLE A.6
(concluded)
Continuous Discount Rate (r)
29%
30%
31%
32%
33%
34%
35%
1
0.7483
0.7408
0.7334
0.7261
0.7189
0.7118
0.7047
2
0.5599
0.5488
0.5379
0.5273
0.5169
0.5066
0.4966
3
0.4190
0.4066
0.3946
0.3829
0.3716
0.3606
0.3499
4
0.3135
0.3012
0.2894
0.2780
0.2671
0.2567
0.2466
5
0.2346
0.2231
0.2122
0.2019
0.1920
0.1827
0.1738
6
0.1755
0.1653
0.1557
0.1466
0.1381
0.1300
0.1225
7
0.1313
0.1225
0.1142
0.1065
0.0993
0.0926
0.0863
8
0.0983
0.0907
0.0837
0.0773
0.0714
0.0659
0.0608
9
0.0735
0.0672
0.0614
0.0561
0.0513
0.0469
0.0429
10
0.0550
0.0498
0.0450
0.0408
0.0369
0.0334
0.0302
11
0.0412
0.0369
0.0330
0.0296
0.0265
0.0238
0.0213
12
0.0308
0.0273
0.0242
0.0215
0.0191
0.0169
0.0150
13
0.0231
0.0202
0.0178
0.0156
0.0137
0.0120
0.0106
14
0.0172
0.0150
0.0130
0.0113
0.0099
0.0086
0.0074
15
0.0129
0.0111
0.0096
0.0082
0.0071
0.0061
0.0052
16
0.0097
0.0082
0.0070
0.0060
0.0051
0.0043
0.0037
17
0.0072
0.0061
0.0051
0.0043
0.0037
0.0031
0.0026
18
0.0054
0.0045
0.0038
0.0032
0.0026
0.0022
0.0018
19
0.0040
0.0033
0.0028
0.0023
0.0019
0.0016
0.0013
20
0.0030
0.0025
0.0020
0.0017
0.0014
0.0011
0.0009
21
0.0023
0.0018
0.0015
0.0012
0.0010
0.0008
0.0006
22
0.0017
0.0014
0.0011
0.0009
0.0007
0.0006
0.0005
23
0.0013
0.0010
0.0008
0.0006
0.0005
0.0004
0.0003
24
0.0009
0.0007
0.0006
0.0005
0.0004
0.0003
0.0002
25
0.0007
0.0006
0.0004
0.0003
0.0003
0.0002
0.0002
30
0.0002
0.0001
0.0001
0.0001
0.0001
0.0000
0.0000
35
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
40
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
45
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
50
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
55
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
60
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Period
(T)

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix B: Solutions to 
Selected End−of−Chapter 
Problems
919
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Solutions to Selected
End-of-Chapter Problems
APPENDIX B
Chapter 2
2.1
Total assets  $128,000
Common stock  $ 88,000
2.2 Common stock  $110,000,000
RE  $ 22,000,000
2.7 Total cash flow to investors  ($5,000)
2.8 a. $25
b.  $25
Chapter 3
3.1 $65,000
3.2 $73,600
3.8 a. $11 million
b. ii. $11 million  ($5 million  1.1)  $5.5 million
Chapter 4
4.1 a. $1,628.89
b. $1,967.15
c. $2,653.30
d. $628.89
4.4 $92.30
4.5 $187,780.23
4.6 a. PV1  $10,000
PV2  $20,000
b. PV1  $ 9,090.91
PV2  $12,418.43
c. PV1  $ 8,333.33
PV2  $ 8,037.55
d.
r  18.921%
4.9 $6,714.61
4.10 $1,609,866.18
4.15 a. $1,259.71
b. $1,265.32
c. $1,270.24
d. $1,271.25
4.19 P  $800
4.22 a. $10,000
b. $ 4,545.45
c. $20,000
4.28 NPV  $201.88
4.29 $16,834.88
4.31 9.0648%
4.32 a. $4,347.26
b. $17,824.65
4.36 Option 1 value  $1,201,178.88
Option 2 value  $1,131,897.47
4.38 18.921%
4.39 PV of both children’s education (today)  $14,880.44
Required payment  $14,880.44/A15
15% 
$2,544.80
4.42 $457,611.46
4.43 NPV  $282.87, purchase the machine
Chapter 5
5.2 a. $1,000.00
b. $828.41
c. $1,231.15
5.6 a. 12.36%
b. $748.48
c. $906.15
5.16 2,754 Shares
5.19 $26.95
5.21 P  $23.75
Chapter 6
6.1 a. Project A
b. Project B
6.3 a. 56.25%
6.5 a.
6.7 For Project A: IRR1  0%;
IRR2  100%
For Project B: IRR  36.1944%
6.9 a. IRR (Project A)  25.69%
IRR (Project B)  19.43%
e. 19.09%
g. NPVA  $689.98
NPVB  $5,671.08
Choose Project B

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix B: Solutions to 
Selected End−of−Chapter 
Problems
920
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
6.16 a. Project A
b. AAR (Sunday)  22.22%
AAR (Saturday)  19.05%
Chapter 7
7.4 E(Salary)  $295,000
PV  $1,594,825.68
7.6
EPS  $4
NPVGO  $3
Price  $36.33
7.8 NPV  $7,722.52, No
7.13 NPVA  $1,446.76
NPVB  $119.17
Choose Project A
7.15 $705,882.35
7.23 $150,100
7.31 Bang EAC  $47,456
IOU EAC  $49,592
Chapter 8
8.5 350 units
8.6 a. 265,625 abalones
b. $28,600
Chapter 9
9.1 a. $1 per share
b. $1,500
c. 8.11%
9.4 15.865%
9.6 E(R)  14.7%
9.11 b. 8.49%
9.12 a. 0.088
b. 0.03311
9.13 a. E(R)  0.056
b. Standard deviation  3.137%
9.14 a. RM  15.3%
b. RT  6.28%
Chapter 10
10.1 a. R  10.57%
b.   7.20%
10.4 Weight of Atlas stock  2
3

Weight of Babcock stock  1
3
             
10.5 Rp  16.2%
p  18.23%
10.14 b. 13.5%
10.19 a. 5.9375%
b. xA  2
3

xB  1
3

c. 2
p  0. This is a riskless portfolio.
10.27   1.4
Chapter 11
11.4 a. RA  10.5  1.2  (RM  14.2)  	A
RB  13.0 0.98  (RM  14.2)  	B
RC  15.7  1.37  (RM  14.2)  	C
b. Rp  12.925  1.1435  (RM  14.2)  0.30	A
 0.45	B  0.25	C
c. Rp  13.8398%
11.6 a. Var(R1p)  .0225
Var(R2p)  .00225
A risk-averse investor will prefer to invest in the
second market.
b. Var(R1p)  .0585
Var(R2p)  .0025
A risk-averse investor will prefer to invest in the
second market.
c. Var(R1p)  .0225
Var(R2p)  .0225
Indifferent between investing in the two markets.
d. Indifference implies that the variances of the
portfolios in the two markets are equal.
Corr (	2i,	2j)  Corr (	1i,	1j)  .5
Chapter 12
12.5 a. RT  0.01633; T  1.0032
12.6 b.
i. RM  0.18
iii. M  0.01265
d.
i. Rj  0.2
ii. 2
j  0.00048
e. Corr (Rm,Ri)  0.635
f. j  1.1
Chapter 14
14.1 a. 67,715 shares
b. Average price  $5 per share
c. Book value  $40 per share
14.2 a. Common stock  $500
Total  $150,500
Chapter 15
15.3 0.125
15.7 a. 18%
b. rs  20%
15.9 a. Value  $300 million
b. Value  $300 million
c. rs  10.14%
914
Appendix B
Solutions to Selected End-of-Chapter Problems

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix B: Solutions to 
Selected End−of−Chapter 
Problems
921
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
15.15 a. VU  $1,530,000
b. $273,000
15.16 $2,800,000
Chapter 16
16.11 a. Total cash flow to stakeholders:
Equity plan  $1,260,000
Debt plan  $1,638,000
b.
Taxes (Debt)  $1,362,000
Taxes (Equity)  $1,740,000
c. VU  $ 6,300,000
VL  $11,700,000
d. Total cash flow to stakeholders:
Equity plan  $1,440,000
Debt plan  $1,399,500
16.14 a. Value  $15,000
b.
i. V  $15,000
ii. B  $7,500
iii. S  $7,500
c. i. rs  30%
ii. ro  .20  20%
d.
i. VL  $12,000
e.
i. $9,000
Debt no longer adds value to the firm.
ii. $6,500
Debt lowers the value of the firm.
Chapter 17
17.1 a. I  $350,625.29
b. B/C NPV  $18,285.17
APV  $40,005.51
c. I  $403,222.85
17.6 a. rs  17.576%
b. rB  10%, pre-tax
After-tax cost of debt  6.6%
c. 13.917%
17.7 a. i. WACC  0.1047
ii. WACC  0.1173
iii. WACC  0.1047
17.8 S  1.21; rS  17.293%
V  $84,000,000; WACC  14.426%
NPV  $3.084 million
Chapter 18
18.5 a. P  $15
b. Each year you receive $4,613.38
18.6 a. Value  $1,412,000
b. Ex-dividend price  $138
c. ii. P  $136.95
Number of shares sold  76.67
18.13 a. P0  $19.17
b. P0  $20.00
18.15 a. 0.0891
b. 11%
c.
Preferred Stock
Debt
i.
8.91%
11.00%
ii.
8.00%
7.26%
iii.
6.42%
7.92%
Chapter 19
19.6 At $40, P  $40.00
At $20, P  $33.33
At $10, P  $30.00
19.10 a. 800,000 shares
b. 3
c. $15 and three rights
19.11 a. Ex-rights price  $24.55
b. Value of a right  $0.45
c. Value  $2,700,500
19.13 a. $36.25
b. $ 8.75
Chapter 20
20.6 a. P  $1,266.41
20.8 a. VNC  $1,164.61
b. C  $77.63
c. $130.12
20.10 NPV  $17,857,143
Chapter 21
21.7 a. Lease vs. buy NPV  $3,177.78
c. $18,177.78
Chapter 22
22.6 a. $5
b. $0
22.7 a. $0
b. $5
22.10 $42.36
22.16 $0.5974
22.19 C  $1.61
22.21 a. C  $5.89
b. P  $11.28
Chapter 23
23.3 NPV (Fixed Plant)  $12,382,644.67
NPV (Flexible Plant)  $8,759,346.74
Choose Fixed Plant
23.4 The value of the option is worth $229,400. 
Mr. Lusk should reject the $500 offer
Appendix B
Solutions to Selected End-of-Chapter Problems
915

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Appendix B: Solutions to 
Selected End−of−Chapter 
Problems
922
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Chapter 24
24.4 a. $1,750
b. $514.29
c.
i. $3,640
iii. $5,440/3  $1,813.33
iv. Gain  $13.33
d. $20
24.5 a. Lower limit  $0
Upper limit  $2
b. Lower limit  $.5
Upper limit  $3
24.14 a.
i. 28
ii. $35.71
iii. 14.27%
b.
i. 28
ii. The conversion price is only meaningful if the
bond is selling at par.
c. $875
d. Method One  $931
Method Two  $931
24.16 $333.33
Chapter 25
25.3 a. i. $5.10
ii. $5.00
b. i. $4.98
ii. $5.00
25.11 a. C  $35,237.89
25.13 a. A  $900.90; B  $593.45; C  $352.18
b. A  $877.19; B  $519.37; C  $269.74
c. A  2.63%; B  12.48%; C  23.41%
25.17 3.5315 years
25.20 a. 2.943 years
b. 2.752 years
25.21 a. 3.327 years
b. 2.434 years
Chapter 26
26.3 a. 5.26%
26.5 a. 7.14%
b. Increase dividend payout ratio to d  1.
Chapter 27
27.3 Total sources  $82,325
27.4 Total sources  $646,000
27.12 a. S  $42,857
b.
January  $44,143
February  $66,000
March  $76,000
Chapter 28
28.3 $2,631.62
28.4 a. Retain $243,193 in cash.
b. 17 times
28.6 Z*  $34,536
H*  $63,608
28.8 Reduction in float  $6,750,000
Cost of lockbox  $107,375
28.9 N  33.43
28.12 $5,793.12 in present value terms
Chapter 29
29.1 PV(Old)  $26,948.12
T  50 days (for customers not taking the discount)
29.2 $1,232,876.71
29.3 PV(New)  $29,110,225.07
29.4 a. NPV(Credit)  $3,029.13
b. 99.57%
29.10 Accounts receivable  $384,247
Chapter 30
30.6 b. Prob (Joint value  $200,000)  0.01
Prob (Joint value  $600,000)  0.40
Prob (Debt value  $300,000)  0.08
Prob (Debt value  $400,000)  0.91
Prob (Stock value  $0)  0.25
c. Value of each company  $290,000
d. Total debt value before merger  $380,000
Total debt value after merger  $390,000
30.10 a. $7,500,000
b. V  $27,500,000
c. Cash: $15,000,000
Stock: $15,625,000
30.11 a. $14,815,385
30.13 NPV  $21.2
Chapter 32
32.1 a. In direct terms, $1.6317/£
In European terms, DM 1.8110/£
e. £ 0.3384/DM
¥ 95.6813/SF
32.7 b. E[$/DM(1)]  $0.525/DM
E[$/DM(3)]  $0.5788/DM
NPV  $17,582
916
Appendix B
Solutions to Selected End-of-Chapter Problems

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Glossary
923
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Glossary
AAR
Average accounting return.
ACRS
Accelerated cost recovery system.
APT
Arbitrage pricing theory.
Absolute priority rule (APR)
Establishes priority of
claims under liquidation.
Accelerated cost recovery system (ACRS)
A system used
to depreciate assets for tax purposes. The current system, en-
acted by the 1986 Tax Reform Act, is very similar to the
ACRS established in 1981. The current system specifies the
depreciable lives (recovery periods) and rates for each of sev-
eral classes of property.
Accounting insolvency
Total liabilities exceed total assets.
A firm with negative net worth is insolvent on the books.
Accounting liquidity
The ease and quickness with which
assets can be converted to cash.
Accounts payable
Money the firm owes to suppliers.
Accounts receivable
Money owed to the firm by customers.
Accounts receivable financing
A secured short-term loan
that involves either the assigning of receivables or the factor-
ing of receivables. Under assignment, the lender has a lien on
the receivables and recourse to the borrower. Factoring in-
volves the sale of accounts receivable. Then the purchaser,
called the factor, must collect on the receivables.
Accounts receivable turnover
Credit sales divided by av-
erage accounts receivable.
Additions to net working capital
Component of cash flow
of firm, along with operating cash flow and capital spending.
Advance commitment
A promise to sell an asset before the
seller has lined up purchase of the asset. This seller can offset
risk by purchasing a futures contract to fix the sales price.
Agency costs
Costs of conflicts of interest among stock-
holders, bondholders, and managers. Agency costs are the
costs of resolving these conflicts. They include the costs of
providing managers with an incentive to maximize share-
holder wealth and then monitoring their behavior, and the cost
of protecting bondholders from shareholders. Agency costs
are borne by stockholders.
Agency theory
The theory of the relationship between
principals and agents. It involves the nature of the costs of re-
solving conflicts of interest between principals and agents.
Aggregation
Process in corporate financial planning whereby
the smaller investment proposals of each of the firm’s opera-
tional units are added up and in effect treated as a big picture.
Aging schedule
A compilation of accounts receivable by
the age of account.
American Depository Receipt (ADR)
A security issued in
the United States to represent shares of a foreign stock, en-
abling that stock to be traded in the United States.
American option
An option contract that may be exercised
anytime up to the expiration date. A European option may be
exercised only on the expiration date.
Amortization
Repayment of a loan in installments.
Angels
Individuals providing venture capital.
Annualized holding-period return
The annual rate of re-
turn that when compounded T times, would have given the
same T-period holding return as actually occurred from pe-
riod 1 to period T.
Annuity
A level stream of equal dollar payments that lasts
for a fixed time. An example of an annuity is the coupon part
of a bond with level annual payments.
Annuity factor
The term used to calculate the present value
of the stream of level payments for a fixed period.
Annuity in advance
An annuity with an immediate initial
payment.
Annuity in arrears
An annuity with a first payment one
full period hence, rather than immediately. That is, the first
payment occurs on date 1 rather than on date 0.
Appraisal rights
Rights of shareholders of an acquired
firm that allow them to demand that their shares be purchased
at a fair value by the acquiring firm.
Arbitrage
Buying an asset in one market at a lower
price and simultaneously selling an identical asset in 
another market at a higher price. This is done with no cost
or risk.
Arbitrage pricing theory (APT)
An equilibrium asset
pricing theory that is derived from a factor model by using
diversification and arbitrage. It shows that the expected re-
turn on any risky asset is a linear combination of various
factors.
Arithmetic average
The sum of the values observed di-
vided by the total number of observations—sometimes re-
ferred to as the mean.
Assets
Anything that the firm owns.
Assets requirements
A common element of a financial
plan that describes projected capital spending and the pro-
posed uses of net working capital.

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Glossary
924
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Auction market
A market where all traders in a certain
good meet at one place to buy or sell an asset. The NYSE is
an example.
Autocorrelation
The correlation of a variable with itself
over successive time intervals.
Availability float
Refers to the time required to clear a
check through the banking system.
Average accounting return (AAR)
The average project
earnings after taxes and depreciation divided by the average
book value of the investment during its life.
Average collection period
Average amount of time re-
quired to collect an account receivable. Also referred to as
days sales outstanding.
Average cost of capital
A firm’s required payout to the
bondholders and the stockholders expressed as a percentage
of capital contributed to the firm. Average cost of capital is
computed by dividing the total required cost of capital by the
total amount of contributed capital.
Average daily sales
Annual sales divided by 365 days.
Balance sheet
A statement showing a firm’s accounting
value on a particular date. It reflects the equation, Assets 
Liabilities  Stockholders’ equity.
Balloon payment
Large final payment, as when a loan is
repaid in installments.
Banker’s acceptance
Agreement by a bank to pay a given
sum of money at a future date.
Bankruptcy
State of being unable to pay debts. Thus the
ownership of the firm’s assets is transferred from the stock-
holders to the bondholders.
Bankruptcy costs
See Financial distress costs.
Bargain-purchase-price option
Gives lessee the option to
purchase the asset at a price below fair market value when the
lease expires.
Basic IRR rule
Accept the project if IRR is greater than the
discount rate; reject the project if IRR is less than the discount
rate.
Bearer bond
A bond issued without record of the owner’s
name. Whoever holds the bond (the bearer) is the owner.
Best-efforts underwriting
An offering in which an under-
writer agrees to distribute as much of the offering as possible
and to return any unsold shares to the issuer.
Beta coefficient
A measure of the sensitivity of a security’s
return to movements in an underlying factor. It is a measured
systematic risk.
Bidder
A firm or person that has made an offer to take over
another firm.
Black-Scholes call pricing equation
An exact formula for
the price of a call option. The formula requires five vari-
ables: the risk-free interest rate, the variance of the underlying
stock, the exercise price, the price of the underlying stock, and
the time to expiration.
Blanket inventory lien
A secured loan that gives the lender
a lien against all the borrower’s inventories.
Bond
A long-term debt of a firm. In common usage, the
term bond often refers to both secured and unsecured debt.
Book cash
A firm’s cash balance as reported in its financial
statements. Also called ledger cash.
Book value per share
Per-share accounting equity value of
a firm. Total accounting equity divided by the number of out-
standing shares.
Borrow
To obtain or receive money on loan with the prom-
ise or understanding of returning it or its equivalent.
Break-even analysis
Analysis of the level of sales at which
a project would make zero profit.
Bubble theory (of speculative markets)
Security prices
sometimes move wildly above their true values.
Business failure
The risk that the firm’s stockholders bear
if the firm is financed only with equity.
Buying the index
Purchasing the stocks in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 in the same proportion as the index to achieve the
same return.
CAPM
Capital asset pricing model.
CAR
Cumulative abnormal return.
Call option
The right—but not the obligation—to buy a
fixed number of shares of stock at a stated price within a spec-
ified time.
Call premium
The price of a call option on common stock.
Call price of a bond
Amount at which a firm has the right
to repurchase its bonds or debentures before the stated matu-
rity date. The call price is always set at equal to or more than
the par value.
Call protected
Describes a bond that is not allowed to be
called, usually for a certain early period in the life of the bond.
Call provision
A written agreement between an issuing
corporation and its bondholders that gives the corporation the
option to redeem the bond at a specified price before the ma-
turity date.
Callable
Refers to a bond that is subject to be repurchased
at a stated call price before maturity.
Capital asset pricing model (CAPM)
An equilibrium as-
set pricing theory that shows that equilibrium rates of ex-
pected return on all risky assets are a function of their covari-
ance with the market portfolio.
Capital budgeting
Planning and managing expenditures
for long-lived assets.
Capital gains
The positive change in the value of an asset.
A negative capital gain is a capital loss.
Capital market line
The efficient set of all assets, both
risky and riskless, which provides the investor with the best
possible opportunities.
Capital markets
Financial markets for long-term debt and
for equity shares.
918
Glossary

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Glossary
925
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Capital rationing
The case where funds are limited to a fixed
dollar amount and must be allocated among competing projects.
Capital structure
The mix of the various debt and equity
capital maintained by a firm. Also called financial structure.
The composition of a corporation’s securities used to finance
its investment activities; the relative proportions of short-term
debt, long-term debt, and owners’ equity.
Capital surplus
Amounts of directly contributed equity
capital in excess of the par value.
Carrying costs
Costs that increase with increases in the
level of investment in current assets.
Carrying value
Book value.
Cash budget
A forecast of cash receipts and disbursements
expected by a firm in the coming year. It is a short-term fi-
nancial planning tool.
Cash cow
A company that pays out all earnings per share to
stockholders as dividends.
Cash cycle
In general, the time between cash disbursement
and cash collection. In net working capital management, it
can be thought of as the operating cycle less the accounts
payable payment period.
Cash discount
A discount given for a cash purchase. One
reason a cash discount may be offered is to speed up the col-
lection of receivables.
Cash flow
Cash generated by the firm and paid to creditors
and shareholders. It can be classified as (1) cash flow from
operations, (2) cash flow from changes in fixed assets, and
(3) cash flow from changes in net working capital.
Cash flow after interest and taxes
Net income plus 
depreciation.
Cash-flow time line
Line depicting the operating activities
and cash flows for a firm over a particular period.
Cash offer
A public equity issue that is sold to all interested
investors.
Cash transaction
A transaction where exchange is imme-
diate, as contrasted to a forward contract, which calls for fu-
ture delivery of an asset at an agreed-upon price.
Cashout
Refers to situation where a firm runs out of cash
and cannot readily sell marketable securities.
Certificates of deposit
Short-term loans to commercial
banks.
Change in net working capital
Difference between net
working capital from one period to another.
Changes in fixed assets
Component of cash flow that equals
sales of fixed assets minus the acquisition of fixed assets.
Characteristic line
The line relating the expected return on
a security to different returns on the market.
Clearing
The exchanging of checks and balancing of ac-
counts between banks.
Clientele effect
Argument that stocks attract clienteles
based on dividend yield or taxes. For example, a tax clientele
effect is induced by the difference in tax treatment of dividend
income and capital gains income; high tax-bracket individu-
als tend to prefer low-dividend yields.
Coinsurance effect
Refers to the fact that the merger of two
firms decreases the probability of default on either’s debt.
Collateral
Assets that are pledged as security for payment
of debt.
Collateral trust bond
A bond secured by a pledge of com-
mon stock held by the corporation.
Collection float
An increase in book cash with no immedi-
ate change in bank cash, generated by checks deposited by the
firm that have not cleared.
Collection policy
Procedures followed by a firm in at-
tempting to collect accounts receivable.
Commercial draft
Demand for payment.
Commercial paper
Short-term,
unsecured promissory
notes issued by corporations with a high credit standing. Their
maturity ranges up to 270 days.
Common equity
Book value.
Common stock
Equity claims held by the “residual own-
ers” of the firm, who are the last to receive any distribution of
earnings or assets.
Compensating balance
Deposit that the firm keeps with
the bank in a low-interest or non-interest-bearing account to
compensate banks for bank loans or services.
Competitive offer
Method of selecting an investment
banker for a new issue by offering the securities to the under-
writer bidding highest.
Composition
Voluntary arrangement to restructure a firm’s
debt, under which payment is reduced.
Compound interest
Interest that is earned both on the ini-
tial principal and on interest earned on the initial principal in
previous periods. The interest earned in one period becomes
in effect part of the principal in a following period.
Compound value
Value of a sum after investing it over one
or more periods. Also called future value.
Compounding
Process of reinvesting each interest pay-
ment to earn more interest. Compounding is based on the idea
that interest itself becomes principal and therefore also earns
interest in subsequent periods.
Concentration banking
The use of geographically dis-
persed collection centers to speed up the collection of ac-
counts receivable.
Conditional sales contract
An arrangement whereby the
firm retains legal ownership of the goods until the customer
has completed payment.
Conflict between bondholders and stockholders
These
two groups may have interests in the corporation that conflict.
Sources of conflict include dividends, dilution, distortion of
investment, and underinvestment. Protective covenants work
to resolve these conflicts.
Glossary
919

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Glossary
926
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Conglomerate acquisition
Acquisition in which the ac-
quired firm and the acquiring firm are not related, unlike a
horizontal or a vertical acquisition.
Consol
A bond that carries a promise to pay a coupon forever;
it has no final maturity date and therefore never matures.
Consolidation
A merger in which an entirely new firm is
created.
Consumer credit
Credit granted to consumers. Trade
credit is credit granted to other firms.
Contingent claim
Claim whose value is directly dependent
on, or is contingent on, the value of its underlying assets. For
example, the debt and equity securities issued by a firm derive
their value from the total value of the firm.
Contingent pension liability
Under ERISA, the firm is li-
able to the plan participants for up to 30 percent of the net
worth of the firm.
Continuous compounding
Interest compounded continu-
ously, every instant, rather than at fixed intervals.
Contribution margin
Amount that each additional prod-
uct, such as a jet engine, contributes to after-tax profit of the
whole project: (Sales price  Variable cost)  (1  Tc),
where Tc is the corporate tax rate.
Conversion premium
Difference between the conversion
price and the current stock price divided by the current stock
price.
Conversion price
The amount of par value exchangeable
for one share of common stock. This term really refers to the
stock price and means the dollar amount of the bond’s par
value that is exchangeable for one share of stock.
Conversion ratio
The number of shares per $1,000 bond
(or debenture) that a bondholder would receive if the bond
were converted into shares of stock.
Conversion value
What a convertible bond would be worth
if it were immediately converted into the common stock at the
current price.
Convertible bond
A bond that may be converted into an-
other form of security, typically common stock, at the option
of the holder at a specified price for a specified period of time.
Corporation
Form of business organization that is created
as a distinct “legal person” composed of one or more actual
individuals or legal entities. Primary advantages of a corpora-
tion include limited liability, ease of ownership, transfer, and
perpetual succession.
Correlation
A standardized statistical measure of the de-
pendence of two random variables. It is defined as the covari-
ance divided by the standard deviations of two variables.
Cost of equity capital
The required return on the com-
pany’s common stock in capital markets. It is also called the
equity holders’ required rate of return because it is what eq-
uity holders can expect to obtain in the capital market. It is a
cost from the firm’s perspective.
Coupon
The stated interest on a debt instrument.
Covariance
A statistical measure of the degree to which
random variables move together.
Credit analysis
The process of determining whether a
credit applicant meets the firm’s standards and what amount
of credit the applicant should receive.
Credit instrument
Device by which a firm offers credit,
such as an invoice, a promissory note, or a conditional sales
contract.
Credit period
Time allowed a credit purchaser to remit the
full payment for credit purchases.
Credit scoring
Determining the probability of default
when granting customers credit.
Creditor
Person or institution that holds the debt issued by
a firm or individual.
Cross rate
The exchange rate between two foreign curren-
cies, neither of which is generally the U.S. dollar.
Crown jewels
An antitakeover tactic in which major 
assets—the crown jewels—are sold by a firm when faced
with a takeover threat.
Cum dividend
With dividend.
Cumulative abnormal return (CAR)
Sum of differences
between the expected return on a stock and the actual return
that comes from the release of news to the market.
Cumulative dividend
Dividend on preferred stock that
takes priority over dividend payments on common stock.
Dividends may not be paid on the common stock until all past
dividends on the preferred stock have been paid.
Cumulative probability
The probability that a drawing
from the standardized normal distribution will be below a par-
ticular value.
Cumulative voting
A procedure whereby a shareholder
may cast all of his or her votes for one member of the board
of directors.
Current asset
Asset that is in the form of cash or that is ex-
pected to be converted into cash in the next 12 months, such
as inventory.
Current liabilities
Obligations that are expected to require
cash payment within one year or the operating period.
Current ratio
Total current assets divided by total current
liabilities. Used to measure short-term solvency of a firm.
Date of payment
Date that dividend checks are mailed.
Date of record
Date on which holders of record in a firm’s
stock ledger are designated as the recipients of either divi-
dends or stock rights.
Dates convention
Treating cash flows as being received on
exact dates—date 0, date 1, and so forth—as opposed to the
end-of-year convention.
Days in receivables
Average collection period.
Days sales outstanding
Average collection period.
De facto
Existing in actual fact although not by official
recognition.
920
Glossary

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Glossary
927
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Dealer market
A market where traders specializing in par-
ticular commodities buy and sell assets for their own account.
The OTC market is an example.
Debenture
An unsecured bond, usually with maturity of 
15 years or more. A debt obligation backed by the general
credit of the issuing corporation.
Debt
Loan agreement that is a liability of the firm. An obli-
gation to repay a specified amount at a particular time.
Debt capacity
Ability to borrow. The amount a firm can
borrow up to the point where the firm value no longer 
increases.
Debt displacement
The amount of borrowing that leasing
displaces. Firms that do a lot of leasing will be forced to cut
back on borrowing.
Debt ratio
Total debt divided by total assets.
Debt service
Interest payments plus repayments of princi-
pal to creditors, that is, retirement of debt.
Decision trees
A graphical representation of alternative
sequential decisions and the possible outcomes of those 
decisions.
Declaration date
Date on which the board of directors
passes a resolution to pay a dividend of a specified amount to
all qualified holders of record on a specified date.
Dedicated capital
Total par value (number of shares issued
multiplied by the par value of each share). Also called dedi-
cated value.
Deed of trust
Indenture.
Deep-discount bond
A bond issued with a very low
coupon or no coupon and selling at a price far below par
value. When the bond has no coupon, it is also called a pure-
discount or original-issue-discount bond.
Default risk
The chance that interest or principal will not
be paid on the due date and in the promised amount.
Defeasance
A debt-restructuring tool that enables a firm to
remove debt from its balance sheet by establishing an irrevo-
cable trust that will generate future cash flows sufficient to
service the decreased debt.
Deferred call
A provision that prohibits the company from
calling the bond before a certain date. During this period the
bond is said to be call protected.
Deferred nominal life annuity
A monthly fixed-dollar
payment beginning at retirement age. It is nominal because
the payment is fixed in dollar amount at any particular time,
up to and including retirement.
Deferred taxes
Noncash expense.
Deficit
The amount by which a sum of money is less than
the required amount; an excess of liabilities over assets, of
losses over profits, or of expenditure over income.
Deliverable instrument
The asset in a forward contract
that will be delivered in the future at an agreed-upon price.
Denomination
Face value or principal of a bond.
Depreciation
A noncash expense, such as the cost of plant
or equipment, charged against earnings to write off the cost of
an asset during its estimated useful life.
Depreciation tax shield
Portion of an investment that can
be deducted from taxable income.
Dilution
Loss in existing shareholders’ value. There are sev-
eral kinds of dilution: (1) dilution of ownership, (2) dilution of
market value, and (3) dilution of book value and earnings, as
with warrants and convertible issues. Firms with significant
amounts of warrants or convertible issues outstanding are re-
quired to report earnings on a “fully diluted” basis.
Direct lease
A lease under which a lessor buys equipment
from a manufacturer and leases it to a lessee.
Disbursement float
A decrease in book cash but no imme-
diate change in bank cash, generated by checks written by 
the firm.
Discount
If a bond is selling below its face value, it is said
to sell at a discount.
Discount rate
Rate used to calculate the present value of
future cash flows.
Discounted payback period rule
An investment decision
rule in which the cash flows are discounted at an interest rate
and the payback rule is applied on these discounted 
cash flows.
Discounting
Calculating the present value of a future
amount. The process is the opposite of compounding.
Distribution
A type of dividend paid by a firm to its own-
ers from sources other than current or accumulated retained
earnings.
Diversifiable risk
A risk that specifically affects a single
asset or a small group of assets. Also called unique or unsys-
tematic risk.
Dividend
Payment made by a firm to its owners, either in
cash or in stock. Also called the “income component” of the
return on an investment in stock.
Dividend growth model
A model wherein dividends are
assumed to be at a constant rate in perpetuity.
Dividend payout
Amount of cash paid to shareholders ex-
pressed as a percentage of earnings per share.
Dividend yield
Dividends per share of common stock di-
vided by market price per share.
Dividends per share
Amount of cash paid to shareholders
expressed as dollars per share.
Double-declining balance depreciation
Method of accel-
erated depreciation.
DuPont system of financial control
Highlights the fact
that return on assets (ROA) can be expressed in terms of the
profit margin and asset turnover.
Duration
The weighted average time of an asset’s cash
flows. The weights are determined by present value factors.
EAC
Equivalent annual cost.
Glossary
921

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Glossary
928
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
EBIT
Earnings before interest and taxes.
EMH
Efficient market hypothesis.
ERISA
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
Economic assumptions
Economic environment in which
the firm expects to reside over the life of the financial plan.
Effective annual interest rate
The interest rate as if it were
compounded once per time period rather than several times
per period.
Efficient market hypothesis (EMH)
The prices of se-
curities fully reflect available information. Investors buy-
ing bonds and stocks in an efficient market should expect
to obtain an equilibrium rate of return. Firms should expect
to receive the “fair” value (present value) for the securities
they sell.
Efficient set
Graph representing a set of portfolios that
maximize expected return at each level of portfolio risk.
End-of-year convention
Treating cash flows as if they oc-
cur at the end of a year (or, alternatively, at the end of a pe-
riod), as opposed to the date convention. Under the end-of-
year convention, the end of year 0 is the present, end of year
1 occurs one period hence, and so on.
Equilibrium rate of interest
The interest rate that clears
the market. Also called market-clearing interest rate.
Equity
Ownership interest of common and preferred stock-
holders in a corporation. Also, total assets minus total liabili-
ties, or net worth.
Equity kicker
Used to refer to warrants because they usu-
ally are issued in combination with privately placed bonds.
Equity share
Ownership interest.
Equivalent annual cost (EAC)
The net present value of
cost divided by an annuity factor that has the same life as the
investment.
Equivalent loan
The amount of the loan that makes leasing
equivalent to buying with debt financing in terms of debt ca-
pacity reduction.
Erosion
Cash-flow amount transferred to a new project
from customers and sales of other products of the firm.
Eurobanks
Banks that make loans and accept deposits in
foreign currencies.
Eurobond
An international bond sold primarily in coun-
tries other than the country in whose currency the issue is
denominated.
Eurocurrency
Money deposited in a financial center out-
side of the country whose currency is involved.
Eurodollar
A dollar deposited in a bank outside the United
States.
Eurodollar CD
Deposit of dollars with foreign banks.
European Currency Unit (ECU)
An index of foreign ex-
change consisting of about 10 European currencies, originally
devised in 1979.
European option
An option contract that may be exercised
only on the expiration date. An American option may be ex-
ercised any time up to the expiration date.
Event study
A statistical study that examines how the re-
lease of information affects prices at a particular time.
Ex rights or ex dividend
Phrases used to indicate that a
stock is selling without a recently declared right or dividend.
The ex-rights or ex-dividend date is generally four business
days before the date of record.
Exchange rate
Price of one country’s currency for another’s.
Exclusionary self-tender
The firm makes a tender offer for
a given amount of its own stock while excluding targeted
stockholders.
Ex-dividend date
Date four business days before the date
of record for a security. An individual purchasing stock before
its ex-dividend date will receive the current dividend.
Exercise price
Price at which the holder of an option can
buy (in the case of a call option) or sell (in the case of a put
option) the underlying stock. Also called the striking price.
Exercising the option
The act of buying or selling the un-
derlying asset via the option contract.
Expectations hypothesis (of interest rates)
Theory that
forward interest rates are unbiased estimates of expected fu-
ture interest rates.
Expected return
Average of possible returns weighted by
their probability.
Expiration date
Maturity date of an option.
Extension
Voluntary arrangements to restructure a firm’s
debt, under which the payment date is postponed.
Extinguish
Retire or pay off debt.
Face value
The value of a bond that appears on its face.
Also referred to as par value or principal.
Factor
A financial institution that buys a firm’s accounts re-
ceivables and collects the debt.
Factor model
A model in which each stock’s return is gener-
ated by common factors, called the systematic sources of risk.
Factoring
Sale of a firm’s accounts receivable to a financial
institution known as a factor.
Fair market value
Amount at which common stock would
change hands between a willing buyer and a willing seller,
both having knowledge of the relevant facts. Also called mar-
ket price.
Feasible set
Opportunity set.
Federal agency securities
Securities issued by corpora-
tions and agencies created by the U.S. government, such as
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and Government
National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae).
Field warehouse financing
A form of inventory loan in
which a public warehouse company acts as a control agent to
supervise the inventory for the lender.
922
Glossary

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Glossary
929
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
The gov-
erning body in accounting.
Financial distress
Events preceding and including bank-
ruptcy, such as violation of loan contracts.
Financial distress costs
Legal and administrative costs of
liquidation or reorganization (direct costs); an impaired abil-
ity to do business and an incentive toward selfish strategies
such as taking large risks, underinvesting, and milking the
property (indirect costs).
Financial intermediaries
Institutions that provide the mar-
ket function of matching borrowers and lenders or traders.
Financial institutions may be categorized as depository, con-
tractual savings, and investment-type.
Financial lease
A long-term noncancelable lease, generally
requiring the lessee to pay all maintenance fees.
Financial leverage
Extent to which a firm relies on debt.
Financial leverage is measured by the ratio of long-term debt
to long-term debt plus equity.
Financial markets
Markets that deal with cash flows over
time, where the savings of lenders are allocated to the financ-
ing needs of borrowers.
Financial requirements
In the financial plan, financing
arrangements that are necessary to meet the overall corporate
objective.
Financial risk
The additional risk that the firm’s stockholders
bear when the firm is financed with debt as well as equity.
Firm commitment underwriting
An underwriting in
which an investment banking firm commits to buy the entire
issue and assumes all financial responsibility for any unsold
shares.
Firm’s net value of debt
Total firm value minus value 
of debt.
First principle of investment decision making
An invest-
ment project is worth undertaking only if it increases the
range of choices in the financial markets. To do this, it must
be at least as desirable as what is available to shareholders in
the financial markets.
Fixed asset
Long-lived property owned by a firm that is used
by a firm in the production of its income. Tangible fixed assets
include real estate, plant, and equipment. Intangible fixed as-
sets include patents, trademarks, and customer recognition.
Fixed cost
A cost that is fixed in total for a given period of
time and for given volume levels. It is not dependent on the
amount of goods or services produced during the period.
Fixed-dollar obligations
Conventional bonds for which
the coupon rate is set as a fixed percentage of the par value.
Flat benefit formula
Method used to determine a partici-
pant’s benefits in a defined benefit plan by multiplying
months of service by a flat monthly benefit.
Float
The difference between bank cash and book cash.
Float represents the net effect of checks in the process of col-
lection, or clearing. Positive float means the firm’s bank cash
is greater than its book cash until the check’s presentation.
Checks written by the firm generate disbursement float, caus-
ing an immediate decrease in book cash but no change in bank
cash. In neutral float position, bank cash equals book cash.
Checks written by the firm represent collection float, which
increases book cash immediately but does not immediately
change bank cash. The sum of disbursement float and collec-
tion float is net float.
Floater
Floating-rate bond.
Floating-rate bond
A debt obligation with an adjustable
coupon payment.
Forced conversion
If the conversion value of a convertible
is greater than the call price, the call can be used to force con-
version.
Foreign bonds
An international bond issued by foreign
borrowers in another nation’s capital market and traditionally
denominated in that nation’s currency.
Foreign exchange market
Market in which arrangements
are made today for future exchange of major currencies; used
to hedge against major swings in foreign exchange rates.
Forward contract
An arrangement calling for future deliv-
ery of an asset at an agreed-upon price.
Forward exchange rate
A future day’s exchange rate be-
tween two major currencies.
Forward trade
An agreement to buy or sell based on ex-
change rates established today for settlement in the future.
Frequency distribution
The organization of data to show
how often certain values or ranges of values occur.
Fully diluted
See Dilution.
Funded debt
Long-term debt.
Future value
Value of a sum after investing it over one or
more periods. Also called compound value.
Futures contract
Obliges traders to purchase or sell an as-
set at an agreed-upon price on a specified future date. The
long position is held by the trader who commits to purchase.
The short position is held by the trader who commits to sell.
Futures differ from forward contracts in their standardization,
exchange trading, margin requirements, and daily settling
(market to market).
GAAP
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
General cash offer
A public issue of a security that is sold
to all interested investors, rather than only to existing share-
holders.
General partnership
Form of business organization in
which all partners agree to provide some portion of the work
and cash and to share profits and losses. Each partner is liable
for the debts of the partnership.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
A
common set of accounting concepts, standards, and proce-
dures by which financial statements are prepared.
Glossary
923

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Glossary
930
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Geometric mean
Annualized holding-period return.
Gilts
British and Irish government securities.
Going-private transactions
Publicly owned stock in a firm
is replaced with complete equity ownership by a private
group. The shares are delisted from stock exchanges and can
no longer be purchased in the open market.
Golden parachute
Compensation paid to top-level man-
agement by a target firm if a takeover occurs.
Goodwill
The excess of the purchase price over the sum of
the fair market values of the individual assets acquired.
Greenmail
Payments to potential bidders to cease un-
friendly takeover attempts.
Green-shoe provision
A contract provision that gives the
underwriter the option to purchase additional shares at the of-
fering price to cover overallotments.
Growing perpetuity
A constant stream of cash flows with-
out end that is expected to rise indefinitely. For example, cash
flows to the landlord of an apartment building might be ex-
pected to rise a certain percentage each year.
Growth opportunity
Opportunity to invest in profitable
projects.
Hedging
Taking a position in two or more securities that are
negatively correlated (taking opposite trading positions) to re-
duce risk.
High-yield bond
Junk bond.
Holder-of-record date
The date on which holders of
record in a firm’s stock ledger are designated as the recipients
of either dividends or stock rights. Also called date of record.
Holding period
Length of time that an individual holds a
security.
Holding-period return
The rate of return over a given period.
Homemade dividends
An individual investor can undo
corporate dividend policy by reinvesting excess dividends or
selling off shares of stock to receive a desired cash flow.
Homemade leverage
Idea that as long as individuals borrow
(and lend) on the same terms as the firm, they can duplicate the
effects of corporate leverage on their own. Thus, if levered firms
are priced too high, rational investors will simply borrow on per-
sonal accounts to buy shares in unlevered firms.
Homogeneous expectations
Idea that all individuals have
the same beliefs concerning future investments, profits, and
dividends.
Horizontal acquisition
Merger between two companies
producing similar goods or services.
IPO
Initial public offering.
IRR
Internal rate of return.
Idiosyncratic risk
An unsystematic risk.
Immunized
Immune to interest-rate risk.
In the money
Describes an option whose exercise would
produce profits. Out of the money describes an option whose
exercise would not be profitable.
Income bond
A bond on which the payment of income is
contingent on sufficient earnings. Income bonds are com-
monly used during the reorganization of a failed or failing
business.
Income statement
Financial report that summarizes a
firm’s performance over a specified time period.
Incremental cash flows
Difference between the firm’s
cash flows with and without a project.
Incremental IRR
IRR on the incremental investment from
choosing a large project instead of a smaller project.
Indenture
Written agreement between the corporate debt
issuer and the lender, setting forth maturity date, interest rate,
and other terms.
Independent project
A project whose acceptance or rejec-
tion is independent of the acceptance or rejection of other
projects.
Inflation
An increase in the amount of money in circula-
tion, resulting in a fall in its value and rise in prices.
Inflation-escalator clause
A clause in a contract providing
for increases or decreases in inflation based on fluctuations in
the cost of living, production costs, and so forth.
Information-content effect
The rise in the stock price fol-
lowing the dividend signal.
In-house processing float
Refers to the time it takes the re-
ceiver of a check to process the payment and deposit it in a
bank for collection.
Initial public offering (IPO)
The original sale of a com-
pany’s securities to the public. Also called an unseasoned 
new issue.
Inside information
Nonpublic knowledge about a corpora-
tion possessed by people in special positions inside a firm.
Instruments
Financial securities, such as money market in-
struments or capital market instruments.
Interest coverage ratio
Earnings before interest and taxes
divided by interest expense. Used to measure a firm’s ability
to pay interest.
Interest on interest
Interest earned on reinvestment of each
interest payment on money invested.
Interest rate
The price paid for borrowing money. It is the
rate of exchange of present consumption for future consump-
tion, or the price of current dollars in terms of future dollars.
Interest rate on debt
The firm’s cost of debt capital. Also
called return on the debt.
Interest-rate-parity theorem
The interest rate differential
between two countries will be equal to the difference between
the forward-exchange rate and the spot-exchange rate.
Interest-rate risk
The chance that a change in the interest
rate will result in a change in the value of a security.
Interest subsidy
A firm’s deduction of the interest pay-
ments on its debt from its earnings before it calculates its tax
bill under current tax law.
924
Glossary

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Glossary
931
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Internal financing
Net income plus depreciation minus
dividends. Internal financing comes from internally generated
cash flow.
Internal rate of return (IRR)
A discount rate at which the
net present value of an investment is zero. The IRR is a
method of evaluating capital expenditure proposals.
Inventory
A current asset, composed of raw materials to be
used in production, work in process, and finished goods.
Inventory loan
A secured short-term loan to purchase in-
ventory. The three basic forms are a blanket inventory lien, a
trust receipt, and field warehouse financing.
Inventory turnover ratio
Ratio of annual sales to average
inventory that measures how quickly inventory is produced
and sold.
Investment bankers
Financial intermediaries who perform
a variety of services, including aiding in the sale of securities,
facilitating mergers and other corporate reorganizations, act-
ing as brokers to both individual and institutional clients, and
trading for their own accounts.
Investment grade bond
Debt that is rated BBB and above
by Standard & Poor’s or Baa and above by Moody’s.
Invoice
Bill written by a seller of goods or services and sub-
mitted to the purchaser.
Irrelevance result
The MM theorem that a firm’s capital
structure is irrelevant to the firm’s value.
Junk bond
A speculative grade bond, rated Ba or lower by
Moody’s, or BB or lower by Standard & Poor’s, or an unrated
bond. Also called a high-yield or low-grade bond.
LBO
Leveraged buyout.
LIBOR
London interbank offered rate.
Law of one price (LOP)
A commodity will cost the same
regardless of what currency is used to purchase it.
Lease
A contractual arrangement to grant the use of spe-
cific fixed assets for a specified time in exchange for pay-
ment, usually in the form of rent. An operating lease is gen-
erally a short-term cancelable arrangement, whereas a
financial, or capital, lease is a long-term noncancelable
agreement.
Ledger cash
A firm’s cash balance as reported in its finan-
cial statements. Also called book cash.
Legal bankruptcy
A legal proceeding for liquidating or re-
organizing a business.
Lend
To provide money temporarily on the condition that it
or its equivalent will be returned, often with an interest fee.
Lessee
One that receives the use of assets under a lease.
Lessor
One that conveys the use of assets under a lease.
Letter of comment
A communication to the firm from the
Securities and Exchange Commission that suggests changes
to a registration statement.
Level-coupon bond
Bond with a stream of coupon pay-
ments that are the same throughout the life of the bond.
Leveraged buyout
Takeover of a company by using bor-
rowed funds, usually by a group including some member of
existing management.
Leveraged equity
Stock in a firm that relies on financial
leverage. Holders of leveraged equity face the benefits and
costs of using debt.
Leveraged lease
Tax-oriented leasing arrangement that in-
volves one or more third-party lenders.
Liabilities
Debts of the firm in the form of financial claims
on a firm’s assets.
Limited partnership
Form of business organization that
permits the liability of some partners to be limited by the
amount of cash contributed to the partnership.
Limited-liability instrument
A security, such as a call op-
tion, in which all the holder can lose is the initial amount put
into it.
Line of credit
A noncommitted line of credit is an informal
agreement that allows firms to borrow up to a previously spec-
ified limit without going through the normal paperwork. A
committed line of credit is a formal legal arrangement and usu-
ally involves a commitment fee paid by the firm to the bank.
Lintner’s observations
John Lintner’s work (1956) sug-
gested that dividend policy is related to a target level of divi-
dends and the speed of adjustment of change in dividends.
Liquidating dividend
Payment by a firm to its owners
from capital rather than from earnings.
Liquidation
Termination of the firm as a going concern.
Liquidation involves selling the assets of the firm for salvage
value. The proceeds, net of transaction costs, are distributed
to creditors in order of established priority.
Liquidity
Refers to the ease and quickness of converting
assets to cash. Also called marketability.
Liquidity-preference hypothesis
Theory that the forward
rate exceeds expected future interest rates.
Lockbox
Post office box set up to intercept accounts re-
ceivable payments. Lockboxes are the most widely used de-
vice to speed up collection of cash.
London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR)
Rate the most
creditworthy banks charge one another for large loans of
Eurodollars overnight in the London market.
Long hedge
Protecting the future cost of a purchase by pur-
chasing a futures contract to protect against changes in the
price of an asset.
Long run
A period of time in which all costs are variable.
Long-term debt
An obligation having a maturity of more than
one year from the date it was issued. Also called funded debt.
Low-grade bond
Junk bond.
MM Proposition I
A proposition of Modigliani and Miller
(MM) which states that a firm cannot change the total value
of its outstanding securities by changing its capital structure
proportions. Also called an irrelevance result.
Glossary
925

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Glossary
932
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
MM Proposition II
A proposition by Modigliani and
Miller (MM) which states that the cost of equity is a linear
function of the firm’s debt-equity ratio.
Mail float
Refers to the part of the collection and disburse-
ment process where checks are trapped in the postal system.
Make a market
The obligation of a specialist to offer to
buy and sell shares of assigned stocks. It is assumed that this
makes the market liquid because the specialist assumes the
role of a buyer for investors if they wish to sell and a seller if
they wish to buy.
Making delivery
Refers to the seller’s actually turning over
to the buyer the asset agreed upon in a forward contract.
Marked to market
Describes the daily settlement of obli-
gations on futures positions.
Market capitalization
Price per share of stock multiplied
by the number of shares outstanding.
Market clearing
Total demand for loans by borrowers
equals total supply of loans from lenders. The market clears
at the equilibrium rate of interest.
Market model
A one-factor model for returns where the in-
dex that is used for the factor is an index of the returns on the
whole market.
Market portfolio
In concept, a value-weighted index of all
securities. In practice, it is an index, such as the S&P 500, that
describes the return of the entire value of the stock market, or
at least the stocks that make up the index. A market portfolio
represents the average investor’s return.
Market price
The current amount at which a security is
trading in a market.
Market risk
Systematic risk. This term emphasizes the fact
that systematic risk influences to some extent all assets in the
market.
Market value
The price at which willing buyers and sellers
trade a firm’s assets.
Marketability
Refers to the ease and quickness of convert-
ing an asset to cash. Also called liquidity.
Marketed claims
Claims that can be bought and sold in fi-
nancial markets, such as those of stockholders and bondholders.
Market-to-book (M/B) ratio
Market price per share of
common stock divided by book value per share.
Maturity date
The date on which the last payment on a
bond is due.
Merger
Combination of two or more companies.
Minimum variance portfolio
The portfolio of risky assets
with the lowest possible variance. By definition, this portfo-
lio must also have the lowest possible standard deviation.
Money markets
Financial markets for debt securities that
pay off in the short term (usually less than one year).
Money purchase plan
A defined benefit contribution plan
in which the participant contributes some part and the firm
contributes at the same or a different rate. Also called an in-
dividual account plan.
Mortgage securities
A debt obligation secured by a mort-
gage on the real property of the borrower.
Multiple rates of return
More than one rate of return from
the same project that make the net present value of the proj-
ect equal to zero. This situation arises when the IRR method
is used for a project in which negative cash flows follow pos-
itive ones.
Multiples
Another name for price/earnings ratios.
Mutually exclusive investment decisions
Investment deci-
sions in which the acceptance of a project precludes the ac-
ceptance of one or more alternative projects.
NPV
Net present value.
NPVGO model
A model valuing the firm in which net
present value of new investment opportunities is explicitly ex-
amined. NPVGO stands for net present value of growth op-
portunities.
Negative covenant
Part of the indenture or loan agreement
that limits or prohibits actions that the company may take.
Negotiated offer
The issuing firm negotiates a deal with
one underwriter to offer a new issue rather than taking com-
petitive bidding.
Net cash balance
Beginning cash balance plus cash re-
ceipts minus cash disbursements.
Net float
Sum of disbursement float and collection float.
Net investment
Gross,
or total,
investment minus
depreciation.
Net operating losses (NOL)
Losses that a firm can take ad-
vantage of to reduce taxes.
Net present value (NPV)
The present value of future cash
returns, discounted at the appropriate market interest rate, mi-
nus the present value of the cost of the investment.
Net present value rule
An investment is worth making if it
has a positive NPV. If an investment’s NPV is negative, it
should be rejected.
Net working capital
Current assets minus current liabilities.
Netting out
To get or bring in as a net; to clear as profit.
Neutral flat position
See Float.
Nominal cash flow
A cash flow expressed in nominal terms
if the actual dollars to be received (or paid out) are given.
Nominal interest rate
Interest rate unadjusted for inflation.
Noncash item
Expense against revenue that does not di-
rectly affect cash flow, such as depreciation and deferred taxes.
Nonmarketed claims
Claims that cannot be easily bought
and sold in the financial markets, such as those of the govern-
ment and litigants in lawsuits.
Normal annuity form
The manner in which retirement
benefits are paid out.
Normal distribution
Symmetric bell-shaped frequency dis-
tribution that can be defined by its mean and standard deviation.
Note
Unsecured debt, usually with maturity of less than 
15 years.
926
Glossary

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Glossary
933
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Odd lot
Stock trading unit of less than 100 shares.
Off balance sheet financing
Financing that is not shown as
a liability on a company’s balance sheet.
One-factor APT
A special case of the arbitrage pricing the-
ory that is derived from the one-factor model by using diver-
sification and arbitrage. It shows the expected return on any
risky asset is a linear function of a single factor. The CAPM
can be expressed as one-factor APT in which a single factor
is the market portfolio.
Open account
A credit account for which the only formal
instrument of credit is the invoice.
Operating activities
Sequence of events and decisions 
that create the firm’s cash inflows and cash outflows. These
activities include buying and paying for raw materials, manu-
facturing and selling a product, and collecting cash.
Operating cash flow
Earnings before interest and deprecia-
tion minus taxes. It measures the cash generated from operations,
not counting capital spending or working capital requirements.
Operating cycle
The time interval between the arrival of
inventory stock and the date when cash is collected from re-
ceivables.
Operating lease
Type of lease in which the period of con-
tract is less than the life of the equipment and the lessor pays
all maintenance and servicing costs.
Operating leverage
The degree to which a company’s
costs of operation are fixed as opposed to variable. A firm
with high operating costs compared to a firm with a low op-
erating leverage, and hence relatively larger changes in EBIT
with respect to a change in the sales revenue.
Opportunity cost
Most valuable alternative that is given
up. The rate of return used in NPV computation is an oppor-
tunity interest rate.
Opportunity set
The possible expected return—standard
deviation pairs of all portfolios that can be constructed from a
set of assets. Also called a feasible set.
Option
A right—but not an obligation—to buy or sell under-
lying assets at a fixed price during a specified time period.
Original-issue-discount bond
A bond issued with a dis-
count from par value. Also called a deep-discount or pure-
discount bond.
Out of the money
Describes an option whose exercise
would not be profitable. In the money describes an option
whose exercise would produce profits.
Oversubscribed issue
Investors are not able to buy all the
shares they want, so underwriters must allocate the shares
among investors. This occurs when a new issue is underpriced.
Oversubscription privilege
Allows shareholders to pur-
chase unsubscribed shares in a rights offering at the subscrip-
tion price.
Over-the-counter (OTC) market
An informal network of
brokers and dealers who negotiate sales of securities (not a
formal exchange).
Par value
The nominal or face value of stocks or bonds. For
stock, it is a relatively unimportant value except for book-
keeping purposes.
Partnership
Form of business organization in which two or
more co-owners form a business. In a general partnership
each partner is liable for the debts of the partnership. Limited
partnership permits some partners to have limited liability.
Payback period rule
An investment decision rule which
states that all investment projects that have payback periods
equal to or less than a particular cutoff period are accepted,
and all of those that pay off in more than the particular cutoff
period are rejected. The payback period is the number of years
required for a firm to recover its initial investment required by
a project from the cash flow it generates.
Payments pattern
Describes the lagged collection pattern
of receivables, for instance the probability that a 72-day-old
account will still be unpaid when it is 73 days old.
Payout ratio
Proportion of net income paid out in cash
dividends.
Pecking order in long-term financing
Hierarchy of long-
term financing strategies, in which using internally generated
cash is at the top and issuing new equity is at the bottom.
Perfect markets
Perfectly competitive financial markets.
Perfectly competitive financial markets
Markets in which
no trader has power to change the price of goods or services.
Perfect markets are characterized by the following conditions:
(1) Trading is costless, and access to the financial markets is
free. (2) Information about borrowing and lending opportunities
is freely available. (3) There are many traders, and no single
trader can have a significant impact on market prices.
Performance shares
Shares of stock given to managers on
the basis of performance as measured by earnings per share
and similar criteria—a control device used by shareholders to
tie management to the self-interest of shareholders.
Perpetuity
A constant stream of cash flows without end. 
A British consol is an example.
Perquisites
Management amenities such as a big office, a
company car, or expense-account meals. “Perks” are agency
costs of equity, because managers of the firm are agents of the
stockholders.
Pie model of capital structure
A model of the debt-equity
ratio of the firms, graphically depicted in slices of a pie that
represents the value of the firm in the capital markets.
Plug
A variable that handles financial slack in the finan-
cial plan.
Poison pill
Strategy by a takeover target company to make
a stock less appealing to a company that wishes to acquire it.
Pooling of interests
Accounting method of reporting ac-
quisitions under which the balance sheets of the two compa-
nies are simply added together item by item.
Portfolio
Combined holding of more than one stock, bond,
real estate asset, or other asset by an investor.
Glossary
927

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Glossary
934
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Portfolio variance
Weighted sum of the covariances and
variances of the assets in a portfolio.
Positive covenant
Part of the indenture or loan agreement
that specifies an action that the company must abide by.
Positive float
See Float.
Post
Particular place on the floor of an exchange where
transactions in stocks listed on the exchange occur.
Preemptive right
The right to share proportionally in any
new stock sold.
Preferred stock
A type of stock whose holders are given cer-
tain priority over common stockholders in the payment of divi-
dends. Usually the dividend rate is fixed at the time of issue.
Preferred stockholders normally do not receive voting rights.
Premium
If a bond is selling above its face value, it is said
to sell at a premium.
Present value
The value of a future cash stream discounted
at the appropriate market interest rate.
Present value factor
Factor used to calculate an estimate of
the present value of an amount to be received in a future period.
Price takers
Individuals who respond to rates and prices by
acting as though they have no influence on them.
Priced out
Means the market has already incorporated in-
formation, such as a low dividend, into the price of a stock.
Price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio
Current market price of
common stock divided by current annual earnings per share.
Primary market
Where new issues of securities are of-
fered to the public.
Principal
The value of a bond that must be repaid at matu-
rity. Also called the face value or par value.
Principle of diversification
Highly diversified portfolios
will have negligible unsystematic risk. In other words, unsys-
tematic risks disappear in portfolios, and only systematic
risks survive.
Private placement
The sale of a bond or other security di-
rectly to a limited number of investors.
Pro forma statements
Projected income statements, bal-
ance sheets, and sources and uses statements for future years.
Profit margin
Profits divided by total operating revenue.
The net profit margin (net income divided by total operating
revenue) and the gross profit margin (earnings before interest
and taxes divided by the total operating revenue) reflect the
firm’s ability to produce a good or service at a high or 
low cost.
Profitability index
A method used to evaluate projects. It is
the ratio of the present value of the future expected cash flows
after initial investment divided by the amount of the initial in-
vestment.
Promissory note
Written promise to pay.
Prospectus
The legal document that must be given to every
investor who contemplates purchasing registered securities in
an offering. It describes the details of the company and the
particular offering.
Protective covenant
A part of the indenture or loan agree-
ment that limits certain actions a company takes during the
term of the loan to protect the lender’s interest.
Proxy
A grant of authority by the shareholder to transfer his
or her voting rights to someone else.
Proxy contest
Attempt to gain control of a firm by solicit-
ing a sufficient number of stockholder votes to replace the ex-
isting management.
Public issue
Sales of securities to the public.
Purchase accounting
Method of reporting acquisitions re-
quiring that the assets of the acquired firm be reported at their
fair market value on the books of the acquiring firm.
Purchasing power parity (PPP)
Idea that the exchange rate
adjusts to keep purchasing power constant among currencies.
Pure discount bond
Bonds that pay no coupons and only
pay back face value at maturity. Also referred to as “bullets”
and “zeros.”
Put option
The right to sell a specified number of shares of
stock at a stated price on or before a specified time.
Put provision
Gives holder of a floating-rate bond the right
to redeem his or her note at par on the coupon payment date.
Put-call parity
The value of a call equals the value of buy-
ing the stock plus buying the put plus borrowing at the risk-
free rate.
Q ratio or Tobin’s Q ratio
Market value of firm’s assets di-
vided by replacement value of firm’s assets.
Quick assets
Current assets minus inventories.
Quick ratio
Quick assets (current assets minus inventories)
divided by total current liabilities. Used to measure short-
term solvency of a firm.
R squared (R2)
Square of the correlation coefficient pro-
portion of the variability explained by the linear model.
Random walk
Theory that stock price changes from day to
day are at random; the changes are independent of each other
and have the same probability distribution.
Real cash flow
A cash flow is expressed in real terms if the
current, or date 0, purchasing power of the cash flow is given.
Real interest rate
Interest rate expressed in terms of real
goods; that is, the nominal interest rate minus the expected in-
flation rate.
Receivables turnover ratio
Total operating revenues di-
vided by average receivables. Used to measure how effec-
tively a firm is managing its accounts receivable.
Red herring
First document released by an underwriter of
a new issue to prospective investors.
Refunding
The process of replacing outstanding bonds,
typically to issue new securities at a lower interest rate than
those replaced.
Registration statement
The registration that discloses all
the pertinent information concerning the corporation that
wants to make the offering. The statement is filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.
928
Glossary

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Glossary
935
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Regular cash dividend
Cash payment by firm to its share-
holders, usually four times a year.
Regulation A
The securities regulation that exempts small
public offerings (those valued at less than $1.5 million) from
most registration requirements.
Relative purchasing power parity (RPPP)
Idea that the
rate of change in the price level of commodities in one coun-
try relative to the price level in another determines the rate of
the exchange rate between the two countries’ currencies.
Reorganization
Financial restructuring of a failed firm.
Both the firm’s asset structure and its financial structure are
changed to reflect their true value, and claims are settled.
Replacement value
Current cost of replacing the firm’s assets.
Replacement-chain problem
Idea that future replacement
decisions must be taken into account in selecting among
projects.
Repurchase agreement (repos)
Short-term, often overnight,
sales of government securities with an agreement to repurchase
the securities at a slightly higher price.
Repurchase of stock
Device to pay cash to firm’s sharehold-
ers that provides more preferable tax treatment for shareholders
than dividends. Treasury stock is the name given to previously
issued stock that has been repurchased by the firm.
Residual dividend approach
An approach that suggests
that a firm pay dividends if and only if acceptable investment
opportunities for those funds are currently unavailable.
Residual losses
Lost wealth of the shareholders due to di-
vergent behavior of the managers.
Residual value
Usually refers to the value of a lessor’s
property at the time the lease expires.
Restrictive covenants
Provisions that place constraints on the
operations of borrowers, such as restrictions on working capital,
fixed assets, future borrowing, and payment of dividend.
Retained earnings
Earnings not paid out as dividends.
Retention ratio
Retained earnings divided by net income.
Return
Profit on capital investment or securities.
Return on assets (ROA)
Income divided by average total
assets.
Return on equity (ROE)
Net income after interest and
taxes divided by average common stockholders’ equity.
Reverse split
The procedure whereby the number of out-
standing stock shares is reduced; for example, two outstand-
ing shares are combined to create only one.
Rights offer
An offer that gives a current shareholder the
opportunity to maintain a proportionate interest in the com-
pany before the shares are offered to the public.
Risk averse
A risk-averse investor will consider risky port-
folios only if they provide compensation for risk via a risk
premium.
Risk class
A partition of the universal set of risk measure so
that projects that are in the same risk class can be comparable.
Risk premium
The excess return on the risky asset that is
the difference between expected return on risky assets and the
return on risk-free assets.
Round lot
Common stock trading unit of 100 shares or
multiples of 100 shares.
S&P 500
Standard & Poor’s Composite Index.
SEC
Securities and Exchange Commission.
SML
Security market line.
SMP
Security market plane.
Safe harbor lease
A lease to transfer tax benefits of own-
ership (depreciation and debt tax shield) from the lessee, if the
lessee could not use them, to a lessor that could.
Sale and lease-back
An arrangement whereby a firm sells
its existing assets to a financial company which then leases
them back to the firm. This is often done to generate cash.
Sales forecast
A key input to the firm’s financial planning
process. External sales forecasts are based on historical expe-
rience, statistical analysis, and consideration of various
macroeconomic factors; internal sales forecasts are obtained
from internal sources.
Sales-type lease
An arrangement whereby a firm leases its
own equipment, such as IBM leasing its own computers,
thereby competing with an independent leasing company.
Scale enhancing
Describes a project that is in the same risk
class as the whole firm.
Scenario analysis
Analysis of the effect on the project of
different scenarios, each scenario involving a confluence 
of factors.
Seasoned new issue
A new issue of stock after the com-
pany’s securities have previously been issued. A seasoned
new issue of common stock can be made by using a cash of-
fer or a rights offer.
Secondary markets
Already-existing securities are bought
and sold on the exchanges or in the over-the-counter market.
Security market line (SML)
A straight line that shows 
the equilibrium relationship between systematic risk and ex-
pected rates of return for individual securities. According to
the SML, the excess return on a risky asset is equal to the ex-
cess return on the market portfolio multiplied by the beta co-
efficient.
Security market plane (SMP)
A plane that shows the
equilibrium relationship between expected return and the beta
coefficient of more than one factor.
Semistrong-form efficiency
Theory that the market is effi-
cient with respect to all publicly available information.
Seniority
The order of repayment. In the event of bank-
ruptcy, senior debt must be repaid before subordinated debt
receives any payment.
Sensitivity analysis
Analysis of the effect on the project
when there is some change in critical variables such as sales
and costs.
Glossary
929

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Glossary
936
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Separation principle
The principle that portfolio choice
can be separated into two independent tasks: (1) determina-
tion of the optimal risky portfolio, which is a purely technical
problem, and (2) the personal choice of the best mix of the
risky portfolio and the risk-free asset.
Separation theorem
The value of an investment to an in-
dividual is not dependent on consumption preferences. 
All investors will want to accept or reject the same invest-
ment projects by using the NPV rule, regardless of personal
preference.
Serial covariance
The covariance between a variable and
the lagged value of the variable; the same as autocovariance.
Set of contracts perspective
View of corporation as a set
of contracting relationships among individuals who have con-
flicting objectives, such as shareholders or managers. The
corporation is a legal contrivance that serves as the nexus for
the contracting relationships.
Shareholder
Holder of equity shares. The terms share-
holders and stockholders usually refer to owners of common
stock in a corporation.
Shelf life
Number of days it takes to get goods purchased
and sold, or days in inventory.
Shelf registration
An SEC procedure that allows a firm to
file a master registration statement summarizing planned fi-
nancing for a two-year period, and then file short statements
when the firm wishes to sell any of the approved master state-
ment securities during that period.
Shirking
The tendency to do less work when the return is
smaller. Owners may have more incentive to shirk if they issue
equity as opposed to debt, because they retain less ownership in-
terest in the company and therefore may receive a smaller return.
Thus, shirking is considered an agency cost of equity.
Short hedge
Protecting the value of an asset held by selling
a futures contract.
Short run
That period of time in which certain equipment,
resources, and commitments of them are fixed.
Short sale
Sale of a security that an investor doesn’t own
but has instead borrowed.
Shortage costs
Costs that fall with increases in the level of
investment in current assets.
Short-run operating activities
Events and decisions con-
cerning the short-term finance of a firm, such as how much in-
ventory to order and whether to offer cash terms or credit
terms to customers.
Short-term debt
An obligation having a maturity of one
year or less from the date it was issued. Also called un-
funded debt.
Short-term tax exempts
Short-term securities issued by
states, municipalities, local housing agencies, and urban re-
newal agencies.
Side effects
Effects of a proposed project on other parts of
the firm.
Sight draft
A commercial draft demanding immediate
payment.
Signaling approach
Approach to the determination of op-
timal capital structure asserting that insiders in a firm have in-
formation that the market does not; therefore the choice of
capital structure by insiders can signal information to out-
siders and change the value of the firm. This theory is also
called the asymmetric information approach.
Simple interest
Interest calculated by considering only the
original principal amount.
Sinking fund
An account managed by the bond trustee for
the purpose of repaying the bonds.
Small issues exemption
Securities issues that involve less
than $1.5 million are not required to file a registration state-
ment with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Instead
they are governed by Regulation A, for which only a brief of-
fering statement is needed.
Sole proprietorship
A business owned by a single individ-
ual. The sole proprietorship pays no corporate income tax but
has unlimited liability for business debts and obligations.
Spot-exchange rate
Exchange rate between two currencies
for immediate delivery.
Spot-interest rate
Interest rate fixed today on a loan that is
made today.
Spot trade
An agreement on the exchange rate today for
settlement in two days.
Spread underwriting
Difference between the under-
writer’s buying price and the offering price. The spread is a
fee for the service of the underwriting syndicate.
Spreadsheet
A computer program that organizes numerical
data into rows and columns on a terminal screen, for calculat-
ing and making adjustments based on new data.
Stakeholders
Both stockholders and bondholders.
Stand-alone principle
Investment principle that states a
firm should accept or reject a project by comparing it with se-
curities in the same risk class.
Standard deviation
The positive square root of the vari-
ance. This is the standard statistical measure of the spread of
a sample.
Standardized normal distribution
A normal distribution
with an expected value of 0 and a standard deviation of 1.
Standby fee
Amount paid to an underwriter who agrees to
purchase any stock that is not subscribed to the public investor
in a rights offering.
Standby underwriting
An agreement whereby an under-
writer agrees to purchase any stock that is not purchased by
the public investor.
Standstill agreements
Contracts where the bidding firm in a
takeover attempt agrees to limit its holdings of another firm.
Stated annual interest rate
The interest rate expressed as a
percentage per annum, by which interest payment is determined.
930
Glossary

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Glossary
937
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Static theory of capital structure
Theory that the firm’s
capital structure is determined by a trade-off of the value of
tax shields against the costs of bankruptcy.
Stock dividend
Payment of a dividend in the form of stock
rather than cash. A stock dividend comes from treasury stock,
increasing the number of shares outstanding, and reduces the
value of each share.
Stock split
The increase in the number of outstanding shares
of stock while making no change in shareholders’ equity.
Stockholder
Holder of equity shares in a firm. The terms
stockholder and shareholders usually refer to owners of com-
mon stock.
Stockholders’ books
Set of books kept by firm manage-
ment for its annual report that follows Financial Accounting
Standards Board rules. The tax books follow the IRS rules.
Stockholders’equity
The residual claims that stockholders
have against a firm’s assets, calculated by subtracting total li-
abilities from total assets; also net worth.
Stockout
Running out of inventory.
Straight voting
A shareholder may cast all of his or her
votes for each candidate for the board of directors.
Straight-line depreciation
A method of depreciation
whereby each year the firm depreciates a constant proportion
of the initial investment less salvage value.
Striking price
Price at which the put option or call option
can be exercised. Also called the exercise price.
Strong-form efficiency
Theory that the market is efficient
with respect to all available information, public or private.
Subordinate debt
Debt whose holders have a claim on the
firm’s assets only after senior debtholders’ claims have been
satisfied.
Subscription price
Price that existing shareholders are al-
lowed to pay for a share of stock in a rights offering.
Sum-of-the-year’s-digits depreciation
Method of acceler-
ated depreciation.
Sunk cost
A cost that has already occurred and cannot be
removed. Because sunk costs are in the past, such costs
should be ignored when deciding whether to accept or reject
a project.
Super-majority amendment
A defensive tactic that re-
quires 80 percent of shareholders to approve a merger.
Surplus funds
Cash flow available after payment of taxes
in the project.
Sustainable growth rate
The only growth rate possible
with preset values for four variables: profit margin, payout ra-
tio, debt-equity ratio, and asset utilization ratio, if the firm is-
sues no new equity.
Swap
Exchange between two securities or currencies.
One type of swap involves the sale (or purchase) of a for-
eign currency with a simultaneous agreement to repurchase
(or sell) it.
Swap rate
The difference between the sale (purchase) price
and the price to repurchase (resell) it in a swap.
Sweep account
Account in which the bank takes all excess
available funds at the close of each business day and invests
them for the firm.
Syndicate
A group of investment banking companies that
agree to cooperate in a joint venture to underwrite an offering
of securities for resale to the public.
Systematic
Common to all businesses.
Systematic risk
Any risk that affects a large number of as-
sets, each to a greater or lesser degree. Also called market risk
or common risk.
Systematic risk principle
Only the systematic portion of
risk matters in large, well-diversified portfolios. Thus, the ex-
pected returns must be related only to systematic risk.
T-bill
Treasury bill.
T-period holding-period return
The percentage return
over the T-year period an investment lasts.
Takeover
General term referring to transfer of control of a
firm from one group of shareholders to another.
Taking delivery
Refers to the buyer’s actually assuming
possession from the seller of the asset agreed upon in a for-
ward contract.
Target cash balance
Optimal amount of cash for a firm to
hold, considering the trade-off between the opportunity costs of
holding too much cash and the trading costs of holding too little.
Target firm
A firm that is the object of a takeover by an-
other firm.
Target payout ratio
A firm’s long-run dividend-to-earnings
ratio. The firm’s policy is to attempt to pay out a certain per-
centage of earnings, but it pays a stated dollar dividend and ad-
justs it to the target as increases in earnings occur.
Targeted repurchase
The firm buys back its own stock
from a potential bidder, usually at a substantial premium, to
forestall a takeover attempt.
Tax books
Set of books kept by firm management for the
IRS that follows IRS rules. The stockholders’ books follow
Financial Accounting Standards Board rules.
Taxable acquisition
An acquisition in which shareholders
of the acquired firm will realize capital gains or losses that
will be taxed.
Taxable income
Gross income less a set of deductions.
Tax-free acquisition
An acquisition in which the selling
shareholders are considered to have exchanged their old
shares for new ones of equal value, and in which they have ex-
perienced no capital gains or losses.
Technical analysis
Research to identify mispriced securities
that focuses on recurrent and predictable stock price patterns.
Technical insolvency
Default on a legal obligation of the
firm. For example, technical inventory occurs when a firm
doesn’t pay a bill.
Glossary
931

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Glossary
938
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Tender offer
Public offer to buy shares of a target firm.
Term structure
Relationship between spot-interest rates
and maturities.
Terms of sale
Conditions on which firm proposes to sell its
goods and services for cash or credit.
Time value of money
Price or value put on time. Time
value of money reflects the opportunity cost of investing at a
risk-free rate. The certainty of having a given sum of money
today is worth more than the certainty of having an equal sum
at a later date because money can be put to profitable use dur-
ing the intervening time.
Tobin’s Q
Market value of assets divided by replacement
value of assets. A Tobin’s Q ratio greater than 1 indicates the
firm has done well with its investment decisions.
Tombstone
An advertisement that announces a public offer-
ing of securities. It identifies the issuer, the type of security, the
underwriters, and where additional information is available.
Total asset-turnover ratio
Total operating revenue divided
by average total assets. Used to measure how effectively a
firm is managing its assets.
Total cash flow of the firm
Total cash inflow minus total
cash outflow.
Trade acceptance
Written demand that has been accepted
by a firm to pay a given sum of money at a future date.
Trade credit
Credit granted to other firms.
Trading costs
Costs of selling marketable securities and
borrowing.
Trading range
Price range between highest and lowest
prices at which a security is traded.
Transactions motive
A reason for holding cash that arises
from normal disbursement and collection activities of the firm.
Treasury bill
Short-term discount debt maturing in less
than one year. T-bills are issued weekly by the federal gov-
ernment and are virtually risk free.
Treasury bond or note
Debt obligations of the federal gov-
ernment that make semiannual coupon payments and are sold
at or near par value in denominations of $1,000 or more. They
have original maturities of more than one year.
Treasury stock
Shares of stock that have been issued and
then repurchased by a firm.
Triangular arbitrage
Striking offsetting deals among
three markets simultaneously to obtain an arbitrage profit.
Trust receipt
A device by which the borrower holds the in-
ventory in “trust” for the lender.
Underpricing
Issuing of securities below the fair market
value.
Underwriter
An investment firm that buys an issue of se-
curity from the firm and resells it to the investors.
Unfunded debt
Short-term debt.
Unit benefit formula
Method used to determine a partici-
pant’s benefits in a defined benefit plan by multiplying years
of service by the percentage of salary.
Unseasoned new issue
Initial public offering (IPO).
Unsystematic
What is specific to a firm.
Unsystematic risk
See Diversifiable risk.
VA principle
Value additivity principle.
Value additivity (VA) principle
In an efficient market  the
value of the sum of two cash flows is the sum of the values of
the individual cash flows.
Variable cost
A cost that varies directly with volume and is
zero when production is zero.
Variance of the probability distribution
The expected
value of squared deviation from the expected return.
Venture capital
Early-stage financing of young companies
seeking to grow rapidly.
Vertical acquisition
Acquisition in which the acquired
firm and the acquiring firm are at different steps in the pro-
duction process.
WACC
Weighted average cost of capital.
Waiting period
Time during which the Securities and
Exchange Commission studies a firm’s registration statement.
During this time the firm may distribute a preliminary
prospectus.
Warrant
A security that gives the holder the right—but not
the obligation—to buy shares of common stock directly from
a company at a fixed price for a given time period.
Wash
Gains equal losses.
Weak-form efficiency
Theory that the market is efficient
with respect to historical price information.
Weighted average cost of capital (WACC)
The average
cost of capital on the firm’s existing projects and activities.
The weighted average cost of capital for the firm is calculated
by weighting the cost of each source of funds by its propor-
tion of the total market value of the firm. It is calculated on a
before- and after-tax basis.
Weighted average maturity
A measure of the level of
interest-rate risk calculated by weighting cash flows by the
time to receipt and multiplying by the fraction of total pres-
ent value represented by the cash flow at that time.
Winner’s curse
The average investor wins—that is, gets
the desired allocation of a new issue—because those who
knew better avoided the issue.
Wire transfer
An electronic transfer of funds from one
bank to another that eliminates the mailing and check-clearing
times associated with other cash-transfer methods.
Yankee bonds
Foreign bonds issued in the United States by
foreign banks and corporations.
Yield to maturity
The discount rate that equates the pres-
ent value of interest payments and redemption value with the
present price of the bond.
Zero-balance account (ZBA)
A checking account in
which a zero balance is maintained by transfer of funds from
a master account in an amount only large enough to cover
checks presented.
932
Glossary

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Name Index
939
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Index
I–1
Name Index
Aggarwal, Reena, 560
Agrawal, Anup, 449
Ahn, D., 363n
Allen, Franklin, 525
Allen, Robert, 203
Altinkilic, Oya, 545n, 560
Altman, Edward I., 426–427, 574, 575, 576,
583, 855, 860, 868, 869n, 870, 871
Amihud, Y., 324n, 326–327, 576n
Amran, Martha, 671
Anders, George, 867n
Andrade, Gregor, 426–427
Ang, J., 517, 605, 607
Antikarov, Vladimir, 672
Ariel, R. A., 355n
Armstrong, Michael, 203
Asquith, Paul, 514, 544, 576n, 690n, 691, 843
Bagwell, Laurie S., 506n
Bali, R., 497n
Banz, R. W., 354n
Barnea, A., 688n
Bar-Or, Yuval, 427
Barry, Christopher, 557n
Bartov, Eli, 353n
Baumol, William S., 773
Bautista, A. J., 606
Beatty, R., 540n
Beranek, W., 864n
Berens, J. L., 441n, 443n
Berger, P. G., 835n
Berkman, H., 725n
Bethal, Jennifer, F., 555
Bhagat, S., 541n, 554
Bhattacharya, S., 515n
Biddle, G. C., 360
Bierman, H., Jr., 812
Billet, Matthew T., 839n
Black, Fischer, 68, 284n, 511, 645
Block, S. B., 161
Blume, M., 516
Bodenheimer, Henry, 333
Bodie, Zvi, 125, 570n
Bodnar, Gordon M., 724n, 725
Boehmer, R., 864n
Booth, 553
Bosignore, Michael R., 651, 653
Bourdain, Anthony, 161
Bower, D. H., 302
Bower, R. S., 302
Bowman, R. G., 606
Boyle, Barbara, 162
Bradbury, M. E., 725n
Bradley, M., 844
Brav, A., 363n
Brealey, Richard, 681n
Breen, William J., 284n
Brennan, Michael J., 215, 324n, 510–511,
672, 691
Brigham, E. F., 687n
Brumer, Robert, 178
Bruno, A. V., 557
Buckstein, Mark A., 856
Caesar, Julius, 74
Campbell, Cynthia J., 690n
Canter, M. S., 705n
Carleton, W. T., 743
Carter, R., 540n
Caton, Gary L., 690n
Chambers, Donald, 341n
Chambers, John T., 651, 653
Chan, Su Han, 202n
Chattergee, S., 865n
Chen, Hsuan-Chi, 545n, 560
Chen, N., 299n
Chew, Donald H., Jr., 334n, 455, 513n, 516n,
579n, 580n, 691
Childs, John, 516
Chung, Kee H., 39n
Coller, M., 327
Copeland, Tom, 189, 329, 450n, 531, 672
Cornell, Bradford, 236, 579n
Cornett, M., 450n
Cowan, A. R., 690n
Cox, John C., 579n, 700n
Crawford, P. J., 606
Crockett, J., 516
Crutchley, Claire, 544n
Culp, C., 695n, 705n
Cuny, C. L., 441n, 443n
Cutler, David M., 427
DeAngelo, Harry, 376, 448n, 513, 839, 840n
DeAngelo, Linda, 376, 513, 840m
Deloof, Marc, 807
Demetz, H., 531n
Desai, A., 844
Desai, J., 839n
DeSantis, Georgio, 887n
Descartes, René, 152n
Devlin, Robert M., 651, 653
Dhillon, U. S., 865n
Dick, C. L., Jr., 743
Dill, D. A., 606
Dirksen, Everett M., 430n
Dobrzynski, Judith H., 201n
Dolde, Walter, 725n
Donaldson, Gordon G., 382, 738
Donaldson. O., 16
Dunsby, Adam, 506n
Dye, E., 214n
Easterbrook, Frank, 868
Ebbers, Bernard J., 651, 653
Eberhart, Allan C., 864n
Eckbo, E. B., 363n, 825
Ederington, Louis H., 690n
Edwards, F. R., 705n
Edwards, Robert Davis, 345n
Ellis, Katrina, 560
Elton, N., 497
Esrey, William T., 651, 653
Ezzel, J. R., 323n, 329, 410n, 485
Fabozzi, Frank J., 584, 584n, 763
Fabozzi, T. D., 584
Fama, Eugene F., 63, 284, 329, 356, 357, 366,
440n, 511, 517, 518, 519, 525
Fields, W. C., 700
Fiorina, Carly S., 651, 653
Fisher, Irving G., 63
Flath, D., 603
Fohrer, Alan J., 453, 520
Fomon, Robert, 787
Francis, J. C., 743
Frank, M., 497n
Franklin, Benjamin, 70
Franks, J. R., 606
French, Kenneth R., 284, 329, 356, 357, 358,
440n, 511, 517, 518, 519, 525
Friend, I., 302, 516
Frohman, Clay, 162
Garvey, Gerald T., 16n
Gault, Stanley, 467
Géczy, C., 363n, 883
Gerard, Bruno, 887n
Gerjsbeek, W. R., Jr., 160n
Gibbons, M. R., 355n
Gilson, Stuart G., 864n, 868
Goetzmann, W. N., 236
Golub, Harvey, 651, 653
Gompers, P. A., 363n
Gordon, M., 512
Gordon, R. H., 21
Graham, John R., 160–161, 309n, 329, 447,
449n, 455
Grimm, W. T., 826–827
Gruber, M., 497
Grundhofer, John, 651, 653
Haddad, M., 105n
Hammergree, John H., 651, 653
Hamonoff, R., 778n
Hansen, Robert S., 513n, 540, 541n, 545n, 560
Harper, C. P., 606
Harris, M., 689n
Harvey, Campbell R., 160–161, 309n, 329, 888
Haugen, Robert A., 426n, 455, 544n, 688n
Hausman, W. H., 812
Havokimian, Armen, 440n

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Name Index
940
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
I–2
Name Index
Hayes, P. A., 581
Hayt, Gregory S., 724n, 725
Healey, P. M., 514, 845
Helms, B. P., 105n
Hershman, A., 554
Hess, Pat, 355n, 516n
Higgins, Robert C., 739, 742
Hilbert, Stephen C., 651, 653
Hill, Ned C., 791, 812
Hirschleifer, J., 63
Hite, G. L., 497n
Hodges, S. D., 606
Holthausen, Robert W., 572n
Hong, H., 360
Hoshi, Takeo, 847n
Howton, Shawn D., 724n, 725n
Hubbard, R. Glenn, 835n
Hull, John C., 628n, 645, 663n
Hunt Brothers, 701
Ibbotson, Roger G., 73, 139n, 225, 226, 227,
228, 229, 231, 233, 236, 299, 541, 545n
Icahn, Carl, 856
Ikenberry, David, 363, 509n
Ingersoll, John E., 579n, 689n, 700n
Inselbag, Isik, 474n, 485, 493n
Jacob, J., 839n
Jagannathan, R., 497n
Jain, P., 839n
Jamail, Joe, 427
Jarrell, Gregg, 202n
Jarrow, R. A., 525, 541n, 868
Jegers, Marc, 807
Jensen, Michael C., 15n, 117, 284n, 435,
437n, 504, 826–827, 828n, 831,
842–843, 868
Jobs, Steven, 521
Joehnk, M. D., 572n, 581
John, J., 839n
John, Kose, 864n, 868
Johnson, R. E., 606, 607
Johnson, W. B., 353n
Jorion, P., 236
Kallberg, J. G., 763
Kane, A., 125
Kaplan, R. S., 359–360
Kaplan, Steven L., 426–427, 868
Kashyup, Anil K., 847n
Kaufold, Howard, 474n, 485, 489n, 493n
Kealy, Bill, 516n
Keim, Donald B., 354, 364–365
Kensinger, John, 202n
Kester, W. Carl, 845n, 847n
Keynes, John Maynard, 433
Khanna, Naveen, 541n
Kieso, D. E., 31
Kim, E. H., 844
Koller, T., 189, 329
Koraczyk, Robert A., 284n
Korwar, A. N., 544
Kothari, S. P., 284n, 356
Kraus, A., 569n, 570
Krinsky, Itzhak, 353n
Kulatilaka, Nalin, 671
Kumar, Raman, 513n
Lakonishok, Joseph, 363, 509n
Lang, Larry N. P., 437n, 864n, 868
LaPorta, R., 21
Lease, Ronald C., 376, 516, 517, 606, 866
Lee, C. F., 743
Lee, Inmoo, 545, 546, 547, 577
Lee, Won Heum, 450n
Lee, Y. W., 812
Leeson, Nicholas, 695
Leftwich, Richard W., 572n
Lemmon, Michael, 455
Levich, Richard M., 882
Lewellen, W., 516, 517
Lewis, Craig M., 688n, 689
Lindahl, F. W., 360
Lindberg, E. B., 39n
Lindenberg, Eric, 823n
Lindley, J. T., 105n
Linn, S. G., 839
Lins, Karl, 835n
Lintner, John, 273, 277, 285n, 518–520
Litwak, Mark, 162n
Litzenberger, Robert, 510–511, 516n
Lockhead, Scott, 545, 546, 547, 577
Logue, D. E., 302, 541n, 839n
Long, H., 214n
Long, Michael S., 807, 812, 841n
Lopez-De-Silanes, F., 21
Loughran, Tim, 355, 361, 362, 363, 844
Luehrman, T. A., 485
MacBeth, James, 284n
Mackie-Mason, J. K., 21
Madhavan, A., 364–365
Magee, John, 345
Magee, R. P., 353n
Maier, J. B., 556
Majd, S., 214
Maksimovic, V., 525, 868
Malatesta, P. H., 841n, 843
Malitz, I. B., 807, 812
Malkiel, Burton G., 348n, 357n, 359, 366
Manaster, S., 540n
Mandelker, G., 360, 843n
Maness, Terry S., 791
Marcus, A., 125
Marden, Bernard, 867
Markowitz, Harry, 259n, 277
Marr, M. W., 554
Marsh, P., 451n
Marshall, John, 15n
Marston, Richard, 724n, 725
Martin, John, 202n
Masonson, L. N., 763
Masulis, R. W., 363n, 448n, 450n, 544
Matsusaka, John, 835n
Mauer, D. C., 839n
Mazzeo, M. A., 690n
McColl, Hugh L., Jr., 651, 653
McConnell, John J., 117, 201–202, 376, 580,
606, 607, 827, 839, 865n, 866
McGuire, William W., 651, 653
Meadows, W. C., 171–172
Meeking, William, 15n, 435
Mehra, Rajnish, 240–241
Melicher, R. W., 581
Mello, A. S., 705n
Mendelson, H., 324n, 326–327, 576n
Mian, Shehzad I., 807, 812
Michaely, Roni, 514, 525, 560
Mikkelson, W. H., 376, 544, 687n
Miles, J. A., 323n, 329, 410n, 485
Milken, Michael, 574
Miller, I. M., 515n
Miller, M., 21, 695n, 705n
Miller, Merton H., 63, 340–341, 395–396,
405, 406, 417, 441n, 455, 462–463, 499,
502, 511, 512, 513, 525, 776
Minton, Bernadette A., 726, 883
Minuit, Peter, 74
Modigliani, Franco, 395–396, 405, 406, 417,
499, 502, 512, 525
Moore, W. T., 690n
Mork, Randall, 835n
Moyer, R. C., 607
Mullins, David W., Jr., 514, 544, 576n, 778n
Murrin, J., 189, 329
Muscarella, Chris J., 117, 201–202, 557n, 827
Muzka, D., 556n
Myers, Stewart C., 214, 382n, 438n, 439n,
440n, 606, 681n, 743, 778n, 825n, 835n
Nagarajan, Nandu J., 353n, 449
Nance, D. R., 883n
Nayan, N., 690n
Nevitt, P. K., 584n
Newman, H. A., 353n
Norli, O., 363n
O’Brian, Thomas I., 887n
Ogden, J. P., 572n
O’Hara, Maureen, 560
O’Neill, Paul, 651, 653
Opler, Tim, 440n, 756
Orr, Daniel, 776
Otek, E., 835n, 839n
Palepu, K. G., 514, 845
Palia, Darius, 835n
Parkinson, K., 763
Parsons, J. E., 541n, 705n
Partch, M. M., 544
Pastor, Lubos, 354
Peavey, John W., III, 557n
Penman, Stephen H., 360
Perfect, Steven B., 724n, 725n
Perlmutter, Isaac, 867
Perry, K., 578
Petersen, Mitchell A., 807
Peterson, D., 517
Peterson, P. P., 517, 605, 607
Phillips, Stephen, 866n
Pickens, T. Boone, 827, 840
Pinkowitz, Lee, 756
Pogue, G. A., 743
Porter, Michael E., 825
Poterba, James M., 358
Pratt, S. E., 554n, 556, 557
Prescott, Edward C., 240–241
Protopapadakis, A., 509n
Pruitt, Stephen W., 39n
Radhakrishnan, Suresh, 353n
Ragolski, Richard J., 688n, 689

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Name Index
941
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Name Index
I–3
Rajan, Raghuram G., 455, 807
Ramaswamy, K., 510–511
Ramirez, G. G., 865n
Ranking, G., 532
Rappaport, A., 738, 743
Ravid, S. A., 807, 812
Raviv, A., 541n, 689n
Reilly, F., 572n
Reinganum, M. R., 354n
Reinhart, U. E., 216
Reishus, David, 868
Rice, E. M., 839, 840n
Ritter, Jay R., 361, 362, 363, 538–539, 540n,
541, 542, 545, 546, 547, 560, 577
Robichek, A., 214
Rock, K., 515n, 543n
Rockefeller family, 556
Rogowski, R., 554n
Roll, Richard, 299n, 303, 353n, 359–360,
505n, 843
Ross, Marc, 164
Ross, Michael P., 823n
Ross, Stephen A., 39n, 285n, 299n, 302, 515n,
579n, 700n
Rowell, D. R., 743
Rozeff, Michael, 513n
Ruback, Richard S., 826–827, 842–843,
845, 868
Sartoris, William L., 791, 812
Schall, L. D., 160n, 164, 607
Schallheim, James S., 455, 606, 607
Scharfstein, David, 847n
Scherr, F. C., 812
Schipper, K., 843
Schlarbaum, G. C., 516, 517, 580
Scholes, Myron S., 284n, 364–365, 511, 513,
628, 645
Schramm, Ronald M., 887n
Schrand, C., 883
Schwartz, E. S., 215, 691
Senbet, Lemma, 426n, 455, 688n, 868
Servaes, Henri, 835n, 865n
Seward, James K., 688n, 689, 839n, 868
Seyhun, H. N., 359n
Shah, K., 450
Shanken, Jay, 284n, 356
Shapiro, Alan, 466n
Sharpe, William F., 273, 277
Shelton, J. R., 743
Shiller, Robert S., 236
Shivdasani, A., 363n
Shleifer, Andrei, 835n
Shleiter, A., 21
Shome Dilip K., 513n
Shoven, John B., 506n
Siegel, Jeremy, 241
Sigler, Andrew, 201n
Simpson, Ron, 162
Singh, A. K., 690n
Sinquefield, Rex A., 73, 139n, 225, 226, 227,
228, 229, 231, 233, 236, 299
Sirri, Drik R., 555
Sivarama, K. V., 607
Sloane, Richard G., 284n, 356, 360
Smith, Adam, 435
Smith, B., 864n
Smith, Clifford W., Jr., 431, 551n, 552, 553,
605, 607, 807, 812, 883n
Smith, Frederick, 428
Smith, R., 553
Smithson, C. W., 883n
Solnik, B. H., 887
Sorenson, E., 554n
Sorenson, O. W., 607
Sousa, D., 839n
Stambaugh, Robert F., 354
Stanley, K. L., 516, 517
Stanley, M. T., 161
Statman, Meir, 262
Stein, J., 688n
Stern, Joel M., 334n, 513n, 516n, 579n,
580n, 691
Stevenson, H., 556n
Stewart, G. B., 334n
Stice, Earl, 532
Stillman, R., 825
Stoll, H., 531n
Stowe, J. D., 812
Stulz, René, 437n, 756, 887
Suggitt, Heather J., 583
Summers, Lawrence H., 427
Sundem, G., 160n, 164
Sunder, L. S., 440n
Swan, Peter L., 16n
Szewczyk, S. H., 352
Taggart, R. A., 451n, 570n, 578
Tamarowski, C., 324n
Tashjian, Elizabeth, 866
Thaler, R. H., 514
Thompson, G. R., 554
Thompson, R., 843
Thornley, Anthony S., 454, 520
Timmons, J., 556n
Titman, Sheridan, 440n
Tong, Wilson, 356
Travlos, N., 450n
Treynor, Jack, 285n
Trigeorgis, L., 672
Truman, Harry, 495
Tsetsekos, George P., 352
Tufano, Peter, 341n, 726
Tyebjee, T. T., 557
Van Horne, James C., 214, 681n
Varma, Raj, 341n
Vermaelen, Theo, 363, 509n
Vetsuypens, Michael R., 557n
Vijh, Anand M., 839n, 844
Vishney, Robert W., 835n
Wakeman, L. M., 605, 607
Walker, D., 556
Walkling, R. A., 437n, 841n
Walsh, J. P., 839n
Wang, Henry N., 887n
Warner, J. B., 426, 431
Warren, J. M., 743
Wasserstein, Bruce, 848
Weill, Sanford J., 651–654
Weinstein, M., 572n
Weiss, Lawrence A., 426, 863, 864n, 868
Welch, John F., Jr., 651, 653
Werners, R., 353n
Wetzel, W. E., 556–557
Weygandt, J. J., 31
White, M. J., 96, 426
Willet, Joseph T., 516
Williamson, O., 15
Williamson, Rohan, 756
Willliams, Vanessa, 93n
Wolff, Eric D., 576n
Womack, K., 514
Woolridge, J. Randall, 202
Wozniak, Stephen, 521
Wruck, Karen H., 854, 866n, 868
Yohn, T., 327
Zantout, Zaher, 352
Zhang, Xiao-Jun, 360
Zhao, Quanshui, 545, 546, 547, 577
Ziemba, W. T., 525, 868
Zietlow, John T., 791
Zingales, Luigi, 455

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Subject Index
942
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Capital Structure and
Dividend Policy
Abandon, option to, 213
Abnormal return, 351–352, 545
Absolute priority rule, 859, 863, 864
Accelerated depreciation, 123
Accounting
for acquisitions, 820–823
completed contract method, 123
and efficient markets, 359–361
and leasing, 589–590
and P/E ratios, 122
percentage-of-completion method, 123
pooling-of-interests method, 822–823
purchase method, 821–822
Accounting costs, 27
Accounting income, 26
compared to cash flows, 169–170
and leasing, 604
Accounting liquidity, 22–23
measures of, 33
Accounting profit, break-even point, 211
Accounts payable, 33, 760
Accounts payable period, 751–753
Accounts receivable financing, 762
Accounts receivable period, 751–752
Acquisitions; see also Leveraged buyouts;
Mergers; Takeovers
accounting for, 820–823
by asset acquisition, 818
avoiding mistakes, 830
benefits to shareholders, 842–845
case, 852–853
classification scheme, 818
consolidations, 817
cost reductions from, 825–827
defensive tactics, 838–841
determining synergy, 823–824
and diversification, 834–835
for earnings growth, 833–834
economic analysis, 831
instead of dividends, 504–505
as investment made under 
uncertainty, 816
Japanese keiretsu, 845–846
long-run evidence on, 844–485
as market for corporate control, 827
mergers, 817
pooling-of-interests method, 822–823
purchase method accounting, 821–822
real productivity in, 845
reducing cost of capital, 829
short-run evidence on, 842–844
sources of synergy, 824–829
by stock acquisition, 817–818
strategic advantage, 825
takeovers, 818–819
tax forms of, 819–820
tax gains from, 827–829
value of the firm after, 829–830
Activity ratios, 34–35
Additions to net working capital, 28
Adjustable-rate preferred stock, 793–794
Adjusted basis, 172n
Adjusted-present-value method, 468–470
compared to flow-to-equity method, 474
compared to weighted-average-cost-of-
capital method, 473
example of, 478–481
formula, 485
guidelines, 474–476
for leasing, 608–610
for leveraged buyouts, 489–494
side effects, 468–469
Administrative expenses, 27, 425–426, 859
Advance commitments, 712
Adverse selection
costs of, 327
and liquidity, 325–326
After-tax interest rate, 592, 609
Agency costs, 15
case, 467
of convertibles and warrants, 688
and high-dividend policy, 513
of leasing, 604
selfish strategies, 427–430
Agency costs of equity, 435–437
effect on debt-equity financing, 437
and free cash flow hypothesis, 437
Aggregation, 733
Aging schedule, 809–810
Agreement of merger, 824n
Alex. Brown and Sons, 540
All-equity financing assumption, 473
All-equity value, 478–479, 609
Allied Products, case, 332–333
Alternative minimum tax, 42
American Airlines, 856
American Depository Receipts, 872–873
American option, 612
expiration date and value, 622
factors affecting value, 625
American Research and Development, 556
American Stock Exchange, 18, 365, 517
Amortization, 378
Analysts
security, 327
technical, 345
Angels, 556
Anheuser-Busch, 371, 372, 373, 375, 379
Announcements
effect on markets, 286–288
of new issue, 543–544
Annual compounding, 79, 82
Annual percentage rate, 79
Annuity, 86–91
delayed, 88–89
formula, 95
growing, 91–93
infrequent, 90
tables, 900–901, 904–905
Annuity factor, 88
Annuity in advance, 89–90
Annuity in arrears, 90
Apple Computer, 38, 556, 587
case, 521–523
Appraisal rights, 817
Appraisal value of assets, 819–820
Appropriate discount rate, 75–76
APT; see Arbitrage pricing theory
APV; see Adjusted-present-value method
Arbitrage, 52
and interest-rate parity, 879
law of one price, 877
triangular, 876
Arbitrage pricing theory, 220
and capital asset pricing model, 285,
298–299
in one-factor model, 297
risk-based model, 300
Arbitrage profit, 621
Arthur Rock and Company, 556
Articles of incorporation, 12
Asset acquisition, 818
Asset-based receivables financing, 811
Asset beta, 318–319
Asset pricing
capital asset pricing model versus APT,
298–299
empirical models, 300–301
in factor models, 286–297
style portfolios, 301
Asset requirements
in financial plan, 734
financing of, 757
Assets, 3, 22
appraisal value, 819–820
and debt-equity ratio, 451
economic value of, 26
quick assets, 33
Assigned receivables, 762
Asymmetric information, pecking-order
theory, 438
Atlantis Casino, 426
AT&T, 16, 107, 213, 839
case, 202–203
Auction market, 18–19
Auction-rate preferred stock, 794–795
Authorized common stock, 372
Availability float, 781
Subject Index

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Subject Index
943
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Average accounting return
analysis of, 146
definition, 144–145
steps, 145–146
Average collection period, 34, 809
Average daily float, 781–782
Average daily sales, 809
Average of distribution, 231–232
Average receivables, 34
Average return, 231–232
Average stock returns, 232–233
Average total assets, 34
Backdoor equity, 688–689
Balance sheet
accounting definition, 22
accounting liquidity, 22–23
debt and equity on, 24
defining cash on, 746–750
market-value, 402
values versus costs, 24
Balance sheet model, 3–4
Baldwin Company, case, 171–177
analysis of bowling ball project, 172–175
cash flows, 173
depreciation, 174
incremental cash flows, 174
interest expense, 177
operating revenues and costs, 173
working capital, 176
Balloon payments, 568, 590
Bank cash, 779
Bank drafts, 787
Banker’s acceptance, 762, 790, 802
Bank of America, 825
Bank of England, 105
Bankruptcy, 375, 377
absolute priority rule, 859, 863
case, 866–867
direct costs of, 867
economic analysis, 860–861
expected, 426
impaired ability to conduct business,
426–427
involuntary, 859
largest cases in U. S., 855
and liquidation, 425–426
Orange County, Calif., 425
prepackaged, 865–866
priority of claims in, 859
versus private workout, 863–864
and reorganization, 425–426
Z-score model, 869–871
Bankruptcy costs, 422–425
as claim to cash flow, 433–434
and debt consolidation, 432
of liquidation/reorganization, 425–426
Bankruptcy liquidation, 857–863
Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978, 858–860
Bankruptcy reorganization, 862–863
Bankruptcy risk, 422–425
Banks, 47
credit information from, 808
immunized, 719
long-term loans, 581–583
sales of foreign bonds, 890n
secured loans, 762
sweep accounts, 788
unsecured loans, 761–762
zero-balance, 787
Barings Bank, 695
Basic IRR rule, 147
Baumol model, 773–776
implications of, 776
Beachhead, 825
Bearer bonds, 566, 890n
Bearer instruments, 47
Benchmark, 301, 319
Best-efforts cash offer, 537
Best efforts offering, 538–539
Beta, 220
asset, 318–319
in capital asset pricing model, 273–274
company, 312–313
and cyclicality of revenues, 315–316
of debt, 318
definition, 270
equity, 318–319
estimation of, 310–315
and expected return, 295–298
and expected return on individual security, 273
and financial leverage, 318–319
formula, 271
future of, 283–284
global, 888
illustration of, 269–270
industry, 313–315
and leverage, 481–484
levered, 484
and operating leverage, 316–317
for pulp/paper industry, 323
real-world, 312
for selected stocks, 271
stability of, 312–313
and systematic risk, 288–291
unlevered, 483–484
Beta coefficient, 289, 291
Bid-ask spread, 325, 531
Bidder, 818–819
Billboard magazine, 2
Binomial model
applications, 658–671
function, 626–628
Black-Scholes model, 625–626, 628–633,
650, 664
for executive stock options, 652–654
formula, 629
parameters, 629
for valuing a start-up, 656–658
warrant pricing, 679–680
Black’s Law Dictionary, 854
Blanket inventory lien, 762
Block trades, 364–365
Boeing Company, 169, 177, 178
Bondholders, 24
benefits of mergers, 830–833
and cash flow of firm, 635
effects of sinking fund, 568
and loan guarantees, 638
and put option terms, 636
versus shareholders, 513
Bond market reporting, 107–108
Bond markets
international, 889–891
top ten, 890
Bond prices, 104n, 105
future estimation, 134–136
and interest rates, 106
Bond ratings, 572–578
Bonds, 2, 377
basic terms, 565–566
bearer form, 566
callable, 378, 569–572
call provision, 563, 568
collateral trust, 566
consols, 105
convertible, 680–690
debenture, 567
deep-discount, 579–580
defaulted, 861
definition, 102
at discount, 102–103, 106
dual-currency, 890
duration concept, 716–718
duration hedging, 714–716
face value, 565–566
features of, 564
floating-rate, 578–579
foreign, 874, 889–891
income bonds, 580
junk bonds, 572, 573–578
level-coupon, 103–105
long-term corporate, 225
long-term government, 225
maturity date, 102
noncallable, 569
as options, 633–638
at premium, 106
present value formula, 107
protective covenants, 567
public issue, 564–568
pure discount, 102–103
returns on, 232–233
security of, 566–567
sinking fund for, 567–568
and term structure of interest rates, 130–139
yield to maturity, 106–107
zero-coupon, 102
Bonds registered, 890
Book cash, 779
Book-debt ratio, 386
Book equity to market equity ratio, 511
Book value, 24, 372, 373–374
versus market value, 386–387
Bop analysis, 206
Borrowers, 376–377
Borrowing
example, 54–56
in financial markets, 46–53
in option pricing model, 627
riskless, 264–268
short-term, 758
target cash balance, 778–779
Bounding value of a call, 621
Break-even analysis, 209–212
Break-even point, 211–212, 395
Bridgestone Corporation, 845
Brokerage costs, 754
Subject Index
I–5

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Subject Index
944
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Brokerage fees, 325
Bubble theory, 357–359
Bulldog bonds, 874
Bullet bond, 102
Business appraiser, 94
Business plans, 733
Bylaws, 12
Cadence Design, 315
Calculated average collection period, 809
Call
delta of, 627
floating-rate CDs, 796
force conversion, 689
gain on a, 679
lower bound, 621
in the money, 613
out of the money, 613
upper bound, 621
Callable bonds, 378, 569–572
effect of interest rates, 569–572
timing of, 572
Call options
on bonds, 689
compared to warrants, 675–678
definition, 613
as derivatives, 695–696
firms expressed in terms of, 624–635
selling, 616–617
value at expiration, 613–614
Call option values
factors determining, 622–624
variables, 625
Call premium, 568
Call price, 378
Call protected bond, 568
Call provision, 105, 563, 568
and interest-rate risk, 571
merits of, 569–572
and taxes, 571
Capital asset pricing model, 220, 296
and arbitrage pricing theory, 285,
298–299
empirical testing of, 283–284
expected return on individual security,
273–274
expected return on market, 272–273
expected return under, 302
formula, 273–274
global, 887
linearity, 274–275
and portfolios, 275
risk-based model, 300
and security market line, 274–275
Capital budgeting, 4, 160–162
adjusted-present-value method, 468–470,
478–481
compared to performance measurement, 333
comparison of methods, 473–476
and cost of equity capital, 307–310
equivalent annual cost method, 184–186
estimating discount rate, 476–478
firm versus project, 319–323
flow-to-equity method, 470–471
and inflation, 177–183
international, 883–886
options in, 642–644
projects versus dividends, 501
with risky cash flows, 220
and value creation, 339–341
weighted-average-cost-of-capital method,
471–472
Capital expenditures, 4, 760
Capital gain
definition, 223
versus dividends, 108–109, 512, 517–518
dollar returns, 221–222
percentage returns, 222–224
Capital gains tax, 42, 503
Capital in excess of par, 372
Capital lease, 589–590
Capital loss, 223
Capital market line, 275
Capital markets, 18; see also Efficient capital
markets; Financial markets
return statistics, 231–232
Capital rationing, 159
Capital structure, 4–5
alternatives, 390
and dividend policy, 520–521
equity versus debt, 395–398
establishing, 448–452
firm value versus shareholder interests,
391–393
formula, 461–462
and free cash flow hypothesis, 437
interindustry differences, 451
Miller model, 447–448
MM Proposition I on, 395–397
MM Proposition II on, 398–407
Modigliani-Miller results, 405–407
Modigliani-Miller thesis, 422
optimal, 393–398
and options, 639–640
pecking-order theory, 438–440
pie model, 390–391, 408, 433–434
recent trends, 385–387
static trade-off theory, 433
and taxes, 408–416
Capital surplus
CAPM; see Capital asset pricing model
Caps, 723–724
Captive finance companies, 811
Carrying costs, 754–756
in credit costs, 805–806
Carrying value, 24
Carter Hale, 865
Cash
compensating balance, 772
components of, 746–750
economic definition, 772
idle, 788–790
liquidity of, 771
in NPV of mergers, 835–837, 838
reasons for holding, 771–772
transactions motive, 772
Cash balances, 671, 772
costs of, 773
ethical and legal questions, 787
in financial statements, 779
opportunity cost of, 774
target, 773–779
total cost of holding, 775–776
trading costs, 775
Cash budgeting, 759–761
cash balance, 761
cash outflow, 760
Cash collection, 772, 779–787
accelerating, 783–786
process, 782
Cash cow, 115, 121
Cash cycle, 750–753
Cash disbursement, 772, 779–787
delaying, 786–787
process, 786
Cash discounts, 800–801
Cash dividends
kinds of, 495
standard payment method, 496–497
taxes on, 503
Cash equivalents, 772
Cash flow, 27–30; see also Incremental cash
flows; Statement of cash flows
compared to net working capital, 28
for different credit terms, 80, 800
dividend equal to, 498
financial claims to, 433–434
in financial markets, 46–48
from financing activities, 41
between firms and financial markets, 8
of granting credit, 799
growing perpetuity, 84–86
identification of, 5–7
and inflation, 180–181
initial dividend greater than, 498–499
from investing activities, 41
of leasing, 591–593
levered, 470–471
matching, 687
and net present value, 141
nominal versus real, 181–182
from operating activities, 40–41
from operations, 28, 30
paid to creditors, 29
paid to stockholders, 29
within payback period, 142
from perpetuity, 83–84
and personal taxes, 444–445
present value of, 78
riskless, 593–594
risk of, 8–9
risky, 220
seasonal or cyclical, 788
from selling new debt, 29
timing of, 7–8
total, 30
in U. S. 1999, 382
unlevered, 470–471, 472, 473
unremitted, 886
Cash flow management, 4
Cash flow time line, 751
Cash-for-stock transactions, 640
Cash management
with adjustable-rate preferred stock, 793–794
areas of, 731
with auction-rate preferred stock, 794–795
collection and disbursement, 779–787
ethical and legal questions, 787
I–6
Subject Index

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Subject Index
945
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
with floating-rate CDs, 796–797
investing idle cash, 788–790
steps, 771
target cash balance, 773–779
Cash offer, 535, 537–543
best efforts method, 538–539
competitive, 541
firm commitment, 538
Green Shoe provision, 538
and investment banks, 539–541
negotiated, 541
offering price, 541–543
underpricing, 541–543
Cash-out, 754
Cash outflow, 760
Cash reserves, 758
Cash surpluses, 788
Cash transaction, 697
CBS Records, 845
Certificates of deposit
Eurodollar, 790
floating-rate, 796–797
Certification, 540, 553
Change in fixed assets, 28
Change in net working capital, 27, 176
Chapter 7 bankruptcy, 858–860
Chapter 11 bankruptcy, 857, 862–863, 865–866
Characteristic line, 269–270
Charmin Paper Company, 825
Check clearing, 780
Chemical Venture Capital Corporation, 556
Chicago Board of Trade, 703, 709
Chicago Board Options Exchange, 613, 617, 676
Chief financial officers, 7
Chrysler Corporation, 426, 638
Citibank, 578
Citicorp Venture Capital, 556
Citigroup, 380, 581, 652–654
Clearing House Interbank Payments
System, 785
Clearing of checks, 780
Clientele, 515
Clientele effect, 515–516
Coca-Cola Company, 700
Coinsurance effect, 833
Collars, 793
Collateral, 566–567
Collateral trust bonds, 566
Collected bank cash, 779
Collection effect, 810
Collection float, 780–781
Collection policy, 798
aging schedule, 809–810
average collection period, 809
collection effort, 810
factoring, 810
Columbia Pictures, 845
Commercial aircraft market, 332–333
Commercial draft, 802
Commercial paper, 762, 790
Committed lines of credit, 761
Common stock, 371–376
authorized versus issued, 372
book value, 373–374
capital surplus, 372
classes of, 375–376
constant growth, 109–111
versus convertible debt, 685–686
and convertibles, 674
definition, 371
differentiated growth, 111–112
dividends, 375
dividends versus capital gains, 108–109
histogram of returns 1926-1999, 231
holding period, 108
large-company, 225
market value, 373–374
in NPV of mergers, 837–838
par and no-par, 371
present value of, 108–112
replacement value, 373–374
and retained earnings, 372–373
shareholder rights, 374–375
small-company, 225
treasury stock, 373
and warrants, 674
zero-growth, 109–111
Company betas, 312–313
Companywide growth rate, 732
Compaq Computer, 320
Compensating balance, 779
Competitive firm cash offer, 537
Competitive offer, 541
Complementary resources, 826
Completed contract method, 123
Complicated financial structure, 867
Compounding, 70–73
continuous, 81–82
over many years, 81
power of, 73–74
Compounding periods, 79–82
Compound interest, 70–71
Compound value, 66
Concentration banking, 784
Conditional sales contract, 802
Conglomerate acquisition, 818
Consideration, 818–819
Consolidated Edison, 119
Consolidations, 817
Consols, 83, 105, 377
Constant-growth stock, 109–111
Consumer credit, 798
Consumption choices, 48–51
Contingent claims, 9–10
Contingent value rights, 612, 640
Continuation of returns, 349
Continuous compounding, 81–82
Contribution margin, 210
Conversion policy, 689–690
Conversion premium, 680–681
Conversion price, 680–681
Conversion ratio, 680–681
Conversion value, 681–682
Convertible bonds, 674
agency costs, 689
as backdoor equity, 688–689
case for and against, 685
conversion policy, 689–690
conversion value, 681–682
definition, 680–681
kinds of issues, 687–689
option value, 682–684
reasons for issuing, 684–687
risk synergy, 688–689
straight bond value, 681
Convertible debt
versus common stock, 685–686
versus straight debt, 684–685
Convertible preferred stock, 680–681
Corporate bond market, 107
Corporate charter, 839
Corporate discount rate, 319
Corporate finance, 5–9; see also Financing;
International finance
balance sheet model, 3–4
basic concerns, 2
capital structure, 4–5
separation theorem, 56
Corporate financial planning; see Financial
planning
Corporate strategy analysis
break-even analysis, 209–212
decision trees, 203–206
discounted cash flow and options, 213–215
option to abandon, 213
option to expand, 212–213
and positive NPV, 200–203
scenario analysis, 206–209
sensitivity analysis, 206–209
and stock market, 201–202
Corporate taxes
discounts and debt capacity with, 592–595
expected return and leverage under, 411–413
MM Proposition I, 410–411
stock prices and leverage under, 414–415
valuation under, 445–448
and weighted average cost of capital,
413–414
Corporate tax rate, 42–43
Corporate wealth, 17
Corporations; see also Firms
agency costs, 15
characteristics, 12–13
compared to partnerships, 14
federal tax rate, 42–43
goals of, 14–17
investment decisions, 60–62
lowering trading costs, 327
managerial goals, 15–16
separation of ownership and control, 16–17
set-of-contracts perspective, 15
shareholders and managerial behavior, 17
world’s largest, 16
Correlation, 245–247
calculating, 246
definition, 242–243
formula, 246, 247
Correlation coefficient, 248
Cost of capital, 319; see also Weighted
average cost of capital
for all-equity firm, 399
calculating, 476–477
with debt, 320–323
delay-adjusted, 781
for international firms, 886–888
at International Paper, 323–324
liquidity and expected return, 325
reduced by acquisitions, 829
Subject Index
I–7

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Subject Index
946
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
reducing, 324–327
and security market line, 320
Cost of debt, 324
Cost of debt capital, 423n
Cost of equity, 324, 399
Cost of equity capital, 307–310
and determinants of beta, 315–319
estimation of beta, 310–315
Cost of float, 781
Cost reduction, 340
from complementary resources, 826
economies of scale, 825
economies of vertical integration, 826
elimination of inefficient management,
826–827
Costs, 207
of holding cash, 771, 773
kinds of, 26–27
of new securities issues, 544–547
versus values, 24
Costs of financial distress; see Financial
distress
Coupon of floating-rate CDs, 796
Coupon rate, 104
Coupons, 103–105
Covariance, 245–247, 250
calculating, 246
definition, 242–243
formula, 246, 247, 252
Covered-call strategy, 620
Credit
five Cs of, 808
line of, 761–762
Credit analysis, 731, 798
credit information, 808
credit scoring, 808
Credit instruments, 801–802
Creditors, 4, 376
Credit period, 799
Credit policy
collections, 809–810
components, 798
credit analysis, 808
and credit risk, 804
and future sales, 804–805
optimal, 805–807
risk and information, 802–805
terms of sale, 798–802
trade credit financing, 811
Credit reports, 808
Credit risk, 804
Cross rate, 783
Crown jewels, 841
Crystal Oil Company, 865–866
Cum dividend, 497
Cumulative abnormal returns, 352
Cumulative dividends, 380
Cumulative probability, 630–632
Cumulative voting, 374
Currency swaps, 722–723, 874
Current assets, 3, 746
different strategies in, 757–758
financing of, 732, 756–759
ideal financial model, 756–757
size of investment in, 753–756
Current income, and stock price, 512
Current liabilities, 4, 747
Current ratio, 33
Current taxes, 26
Cutoff rate, 319
Cyclical activities, 788
Cyclicality of revenues, 315–316
Dart-throwing efficiency, 348
Data mining, 300
Date of payment, 497
Date of record, 496
Dates convention, 86
Days in receivables, 809
Days’ sales outstanding, 809
Dead-weight costs explanation, 580
Dealer markets, 18–19
Dean Witter Reynolds, 540
Debenture, 377, 567
Debt, 2
additional effects of, 609–610
on balance sheet, 24
beta of, 318
as contingent claims, 9–10
convertible versus straight, 684–685
cost of, 324
cost of capital with, 320–323
definition, 376
versus equity, 395–398
and financial leverage, 35–36
and free cash flow hypothesis, 437
interest expense, 36
payment in kind variety, 490n
preferred stock as, 380
pressures on firms from, 422–425
reducing costs of, 430–432
riskless, 439
secured, 811
subordinated, 378
tax disadvantage, 408–410
types of securities, 377
Debt-asset ratio, 448–449
Debt capacity, 36, 433, 440, 544
with corporate taxes, 592–595
purposes of, 598–599
unused, 828
Debt consolidation, 432
Debt displacement
basic concept of, 596–597
definition, 598
and lease valuation, 596–599
and optimal debt level, 597–599
Debt-equity financing, 437
Debt-equity ratio, 35, 407
choosing, 390–391
and growth, 441–443
in Japan, 432
target, 735
targeting, 451–452
Debt financing, 3–4, 403–405; see also
Bonds; Long-term debt
aversion to, 449
case, 466–467
case against, 454
case for, 453
versus equity, 381
flotation costs, 479
leveraged buyouts, 489–494
long-term, 376–377
in Miller model, 447–448, 462–464
nonmarket rate, 480–481
subsidies, 469
tax subsidy, 479–480
Debtor, 376–377
Debtor-in-possession debt, 864
Debt ratio, 35–36
Debt securities, 17–18, 376
Debt service, 24, 29
Decision trees, 203–206, 644
Declaration date, 496
Dedicated capital, 371
Deed of trust, 564
Deep-discount bonds, 579–580
Default, 375
futures contracts, 700
on guaranteed loans, 638
Defaulted bonds, 861
Default rate, 575, 576
Default risk, 789
Deferral accounting method, 360
Deferred call, 568
Deferred taxes, 26
Delay-adjusted cost of capital, 781
Delayed annuity, 88–89
Deliverable instrument, 696
Delta Air Lines, 856
Delta of a call, 627
Denomination of bond certificate, 103
Denomination of bonds, 565
Department of Justice, 825
Depository transfer check, 785n
Depreciation, 26, 145, 174–175, 359
classes of property, 199
half-year convention, 199
total investment equal to, 113
Derivatives, 255n, 695–696
actual use of, 724–725
case, 705–706
duration hedging, 714–720
exotics, 723–724
financial, 695
forward contracts, 696–697
futures contracts, 697–702
hedging with, 703–706
interest rate futures, 606–713
reasons for using, 696
swap contracts, 721–723, 874
Deutsche Bank, 695
Diageo PLC, 612, 640
Differentiated growth stock, 111–112
Digital Equipment Corporation, 556
Dilution, 677–678
Direct leases, 587
Direct placement, 537
of bonds, 580–581
Direct rights offer, 537
Disbursement float, 780, 787
Discount, 538
of banker’s acceptance, 802
Discount bonds, 102–103
Discounted cash flow analysis, 824
and corporate options, 213–215
for positive NPV, 200
I–8
Subject Index

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Subject Index
947
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Discounted payback period rule, 143–144
Discounting, 74–78
with corporate taxes, 592–595
dividends versus earnings, 118
Discount rate, 69–70, 114–115
appropriate, 75–76
calculating, 471
in capital budgeting, 476–478
case, 93
function of risk, 242
in lease-or-buy decision, 596
with levered beta, 484
nominal versus real, 181–183
and price-earnings ratios, 122
risk-adjusted, 310
with unlevered beta, 484
Discount selling, 106
Distress prediction models, 861
Distribution, 495
spread dispersion of, 234
symmetric, 234
Diversifiable risk, 262–263
Diversification, 834–835
lower cost of capital from, 886–887
Diversification effect, 251–252, 254,
260–264, 293–295
Divestiture, 838–839
Dividend discount model, 108–109
estimates of parameters, 112–115
versus growth model, 118
Dividend growth model, 119
Dividend payout, 496
Dividend per share, 496
Dividend policy
case, 521–523
clientele effect, 515–516
current and alternative, 500
factors favoring high dividends, 512–513
homemade dividends, 500–501
indifference proposition, 499
irrelevance of, 498–503
market information from, 520
means of avoiding payment, 504–506
Modigliani-Miller thesis, 506, 512
parameters, 518–519
purpose of, 495
sensible, 520–521
unknown factors in, 516–521
Dividends
alternatives to, 504–505
versus capital gains, 108–109
cash payment method, 496–497
characteristics, 375
cumulative or noncumulative, 380
default on, 375
dollar returns, 221–222
expected returns, 509–511
fewer companies paying, 517–518
firms without sufficient cash for, 503–504
firms with sufficient cash for, 504–506
greater than cash flow, 498–499
growth in, 117–118
homemade, 500–501
information content of, 514–515
versus interest, 376–377
and investment policy, 502
payment procedure, 496
percentage returns, 222–224
and personal taxes, 509–511
present value of, 111–112
pros and cons, 521
ratio to aggregate earnings, 518
set equal to cash flow, 498
versus stock repurchase, 507
taxation of, 444–445
tax-disadvantages, 517–518
taxes and issuance costs, 503–506
types of, 495–496
in U. S. economy, 516–518
Dividends-to-earnings ratio, 519–520
Dividend valuation model, 309n
Dividend yield, 39, 114, 223, 496
definition, 510n
effect on pretax expected returns, 510
and marginal tax rate, 517
Dollar investment, 879
Dollar returns, 221–222
Downsizing, 826–827
Down-state price, 661
Draft, 787
commercial, 802
sight, 802
Drexel Burnham Lambert, 556, 574–575
Dribble method of new issuance, 554
Dual-currency bonds, 890
Due diligence, 540
Dumb dentists, 557
Du Pont system of financial control, 37
Duration, 716–718
of assets and liabilities, 718–720
formula, 717n
Duration hedging, 714–720
Dutch auction, 794–795
E. F. Hutton, 787
EAIR; see Effective annual interest rate
Early warning distress signal, 857
Earnings
compared to cash flows, 169–170
falling, 544
growth in, 117–118
ratio of dividends to, 518
reporting of, 678
short-term versus long-term, 201–202
Earnings before interest, 394–395
Earnings before interest and taxes, 25, 316n,
410–411, 441–442
Earnings growth, reasons for mergers,
833–834
Earnings per share, 115, 394–395
and market value, 507
Eastern Airlines, 856
EBIT; see Earnings before interest and taxes
Economic assumptions in financial planning,
734–735
Economic value added, 333–336
formula, 335
Economies of scale, 825
Edison International, 453, 520
Effective annual interest rate, 80
Effective annual yield, 80
Effective tax rate, 503
Efficient capital markets, 123, 339,
341–343
Efficient frontier, 255
Efficient market hypothesis, 342–343, 344
contrary views, 354–359
evidence on semistrong form, 350–359
evidence on strong form, 359
evidence on weak form, 349–350
misconceptions about, 348–349
semistrong form, 346–347
strong form, 346–347
summary of, 363
weak form, 343–346
Efficient markets
and accounts, 359–361
price-pressure effects, 364–365
tests of, 353
Efficient set
for many securities, 257–260
for two assets, 252–257
Electronic Data Systems, 839
Electronics firms, 121–122
Empirical models, 300–301
End-of-the-year convention, 86
English consols, 105
Eo Company, 213
Equilibrium rate of interest, 48, 49
Equity, 2
agency costs of, 435–437
on balance sheet, 22, 24
as contingent claims, 9–10
cost of, 324
versus debt, 395–398
dribble method of new issuance, 554
international market, 890n
market price, 38
market risk premium, 240–241
performance shares, 17
private market, 554–558
tax disadvantage, 408–410
timing decision, 361–363
trading in securities, 18–19
Equity beta, 318–319
Equity contract, 15
Equity curveout, 839
Equity financing, 4, 402–403; see also
Securities; Stock
versus debt, 381
Equity kicker, 674
Equity multiplier, 35
Equity premium puzzle, 240–241
Equity risk premium puzzle, 240–241
Equity securities, 17–18, 376; see also
Securities; Stock
Equivalent annual cost, 187, 211–212
Equivalent annual cost method, 184–186
Erosion of cash flows, 171
Eurobanks, 889
Eurobonds, 783
Eurocurrency, 783
Eurocurrency market, 889
Eurodollar, 889
Eurodollar CDs, 790
Euroequities, 890n
European Currency Unit, 783
European Monetary System, 783
Subject Index
I–9

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Subject Index
948
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
European option, 612, 622n
Event studies, 349, 351–352
Excess return on the risky asset, 232
Exchange-rate risk, 881–883
Exchange rates, 875–876
and interest rates, 879–883
and reporting foreign operations, 891
table, 894–895
Exclusionary self-tenders, 840
Ex-dividend date, 496
Executive compensation
elements of, 650–651
valuing, 652–655
Executive stock options
Black-Scholes model, 652–654
reasons for, 650–652
top 15 corporate grants, 651
Exercise price, 612
and call-option values, 622
Exercising the option, 612
Exotics, 723–724
Expectations hypothesis, 137, 139
Expected return, 286
and beta, 295–298
under capital asset pricing model, 302
definition, 242
and dividends, 509–511
in empirical models, 300
equal to risk-free rate, 628
on individual security, 273–274
leverage under corporate taxes, 411–413
liquidity and cost of capital, 325
on market, 272–273
on portfolios, 248–249
on risky securities, 220
Expected spot rate, 881
Expense preference, 15–16
Expensive-lunch story, 686–687
Expiration date, 612, 622
Ex-rights date, 549
External financing, 382
External funds needed, 736–738
Extinguished debt, 378
Extra cash dividend, 495
Face value
of bonds, 102–103, 377, 565–566
of options, 651
Factor, 810
surprises and expected returns, 286–287
Factored receivables, 762
Factoring, 810
Factor models
betas and expected return, 295–298
betas and systematic risk, 288–291
CAPM versus APT, 298–299
definition, 290–291
for portfolios, 291–295
Fair market value, 38
Feasible set, 255
Federal agency securities, 790
Federal Express, 428–429
Federal Home Loan Bank Board, 790
Federal Trade Commission, 825
Fedwire, 785
Field-warehousing financing, 762
FIFO (first-in, first-out) accounting, 122–123,
359–360
Financial Accounting Standards Board, 175,
589–590, 891
on pooling-of-interests method, 823n
Financial assets, purchase of, instead of
dividends, 505
Financial break-even point, 212
Financial distress
agency costs, 427–430
bankruptcy, 860–861
case, 467
characteristics of, 854–855
costs of, 422–425, 451, 469
dealing with, 856–857
direct costs, 425–426, 867
indirect costs, 426–427
integrating costs with tax effects, 432–434
kinds of, 377
prediction models, 861
private workout versus bankruptcy, 863–864
reducing costs of, 430–432
and uncertain operating income, 451–452
Financial failure, 377
Financial instruments, 2, 47–48; see also
Bonds; Stock
derivatives, 695–696
exotics, 723–724
forward contracts, 696–697
futures contracts, 697–702
interest-rate futures contracts, 707–714
main types in U. S., 225
new, 340–341
options, 612
stock options, 650–655
swaps contracts, 721–723
warrants, 674–676
Financial intermediaries, 47
Financial leases, 588
Financial leverage, 35–36
and beta, 318–319
effect on firm value, 450
effects of corporate and personal taxes,
445–448
MM Proposition II on, 399–401
and returns to shareholders, 393–395
and risk to equity holders, 398–399
and value of the firm, 393–398
Financial managers
in efficient markets, 339
skills needed, 5–9
Financial markets, 5, 8
anonymous, 47
basic principles, 52–53
borrowing, 54–56
capital market, 18
and consumption choices, 48–51
exchange trading, 19
functions, 46–47
functions of, 17–19
lending, 53–54
listing, 19
market clearing, 47–48
money market, 18
perfectly competitive, 51–52
primary market, 18
secondary market, 18
separation theorem, 62
Financial performance measures, 333–336
Financial planning
accomplishments, 733
basic policy elements, 732
and determinants of growth, 738–741
guidelines, 732
long-term, 731
nature of, 733
purposes of, 731
scenarios, 733
short-term, 731
Financial planning model
criticisms of, 741
external funds needed, 736–738
ingredients, 738
Financial ratios; see Ratio analysis
Financial slack, 440
case, 467
Financial statement analysis
activity ratios, 34–35
financial leverage, 35–36
market value ratios, 38–40
profitability, 36–38
short-term solvency, 33
sustainable growth rate, 38
Financial statements; see also Balance sheet;
Income statement; Statement of cash flows
cash balances in, 779
for credit analysis, 808
pro forma, 359, 734
Financial structure
complicated, 867
formula, 461–462
Financing; see also International finance
acquisitions, 816
contingent value rights, 612
first-round, 557
forms of, 3–4
off-balance-sheet, 589
patterns of, 382–385
by venture capitalists, 554, 556–558
Financing decisions, 1, 4
equity versus debt, 395–398
by nonfinancial corporations, 384
pecking-order theory, 438–440
role of options, 650
timing of, 361–363
and value creation, 339–341
Financing opportunities, 340–341
Financing patterns
international 1991-1996, 385
in U. S. 1979-1999, 383
Firestone Tire and Rubber, 845
Firm commitment offering, 537, 538
economic rationale for, 540
Firms; see also Corporations; Partnerships
balance sheet model, 3–4
capital structure, 4–5
expressed in terms of call options, 624–635
expressed in terms of put options, 635–636
financial managers, 5–9
financing decisions, 1
growth opportunities, 115–119
growth rate formula, 113
I–10
Subject Index

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Subject Index
949
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
kinds of, 10–14
lowering trading costs, 327
Modigliani-Miller results, 405–407
no-dividend, 118–119
stock repurchase, 506–509
with sufficient cash for dividends, 504–506
top option grants, 650–651, 653
use of derivatives, 696
without sufficient cash for dividends,
503–504
Firm’s value net of debt, 679
First Boston, 852–853
First City Properties, 841
First-dollar obligations, 578
First principle of investment decision making,
52–53
First-round financing, 557
Five Cs of credit, 808
Fixed assets, 3, 23
changes in, 28
Fixed costs, 26–27, 207, 316
Fixed dollar obligation, 578
Float, 779–782
Floated stock issue, 402
Floating-rate bonds, 578–579
Floating-rate CDs, 796–797
Floating-rate preferred stock, 794
Floor-and-ceiling provisions, 578
Floors, 723–724
Flotation costs, 479, 552
Flow-based insolvency, 855–856
Flow-to-equity method, 470–471, 473
compared to APV and CAPM, 474
formula, 485
Force conversion, 689
Ford Motor Company, 247, 375
Forecasting
for financial planning, 738–739
sales forecasts, 734
Foreign bonds, 874
Foreign exchange conversion, 883–886
Foreign exchange markets
description, 874–875
Eurocurrency market, 889
participants, 874–875
types of transactions, 876
Foreign exchange risk, 881–882
Foreign operations, reporting, 891
Foreign political risks, 887–888
Forward contracts, 696–697
compared to futures, 698
flaws in, 700
on mortgages, 709–712
pricing of, 707–708
Forward discount rate, 881
Forward exchange rate, 876, 879, 882
Forward rate, 132–134
versus spot rate, 137
Forward trade, 876
Free cash flow, 30n, 828
Free cash flow hypothesis, 437
Free-lunch story, 686
French Revolution, 357
Frequency distribution, 231–232
Fully diluted basis reporting of earnings, 678
Funded debt, 377, 563
Future sales, 804
Futures contracts, 697–702
hedging with, 703–705
interest-rate, 707–714
listed, 701–702
marked to the market, 698–700
trading in, 698
Treasury bonds, 709
Future value, 59, 66
case, 93
and compounding, 70–73
with compounding, 81
formula, 71
tables, 902–903, 906–908
GenenTech, 123
General cash offer, 534–535
General Electric, 123–124, 313, 314, 429
General expenses, 27
Generally accepted accounting principles
and balance sheet, 24
and income statement, 26
General Mills, 612, 640–642
General Motors, 213, 247, 266–267, 292, 349,
377, 379, 434, 436, 732, 733, 826, 839
General partnership, 11
General replacement decision, 187–188
Geometric series, 83
German bankruptcy code, 860–861
Getty Oil, 427, 827
Gibson Greeting Cards, 695
Gilts, 874
Ginnie Mae; see Government National
Mortgage Association
Global betas, 888
Globalization, 872
Going on margin, 266n
Going private, 840–841
Going-private transactions, 819
Golden parachute, 841
Goldman Sachs, 537, 541
Goodweek Tires, Inc., case, 198–199
Goodwill, 821–822
Goodyear Tire and Rubber, 857
case, 466–467
Government bailouts, 638
Government National Mortgage 
Association, 790
Graduated income tax, 462–464
Greenmail, 839
Green Mountain Power, 270
Green Shoe option, 538, 545
Gross national product beta, 289–290
Gross profit margin, 36
Growing annuity, 91–93
formula, 95
Growing perpetuity, 84–86
formula, 95
Growth
and debt-equity ratio, 441–443
determinants of, 738–741
in earnings and dividends, 117–118
Growth opportunities, 115–119
versus growth in earnings and dividends,
117–118
and price-earnings ratios, 121–123
Growth rate
actual versus sustainable, 742
companywide, 732
estimating, 112–115
Growth-rate equation, 739
Growth rate formula, 113
Growth stock, 301, 355–356
Guide to Venture Capital, 556, 557
Head-and shoulders pattern, 345
Hedge, 250
Hedging, 695–696
case, 705–706
definition, 696
duration, 714–720
exchange-rate risk, 882–883
with forward contracts, 696–697
with futures contracts, 697–702
in interest-rate futures, 709–713
kinds of, 703–705
by matching liabilities with assets, 718–720
with swaps, 721–723
Hewlett-Packard, 320
High-dividend policy
agency costs, 513
and desire for current income, 512
rationale for, 516
tax arbitrage, 513
uncertainty resolution, 512
High-risk projects, 639–640
Hockey-stick diagram, 613–614
Holding period, 108
Holding-period returns, 225–231
Homemade dividends, 500–501
Homemade leverage strategy, 396–397
Homogeneous expectations, 268, 499
Horizontal acquisition, 818
Hughes Aircraft, 826
Hurdle rate, 319
Hybrid securities, 377
IBM, 38, 122, 247, 266–267, 320, 343, 350,
587, 613, 732, 733
Idiosyncratic risk, 288
Idle cash
investing, 788–790
planned expenditures, 788–789
seasonal or cyclical, 788
Illiquid assets, 398
Immunization strategies, 720
Immunized bank, 719
Income
accounting versus taxable, 26
and consumption choices, 48–51
desire for, 512
Income bonds, 580
Income statement
accounting definition, 25
generally accepted accounting principles, 26
noncash items, 26
sections of, 25–26
time and costs, 26–27
Incremental cash flows
case, 171–177
compared to earnings, 169–170
and erosion, 171
Subject Index
I–11

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Subject Index
950
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
net present value of, 157
and opportunity cost, 170
and sunk costs, 170
Incremental IRR, 154–155
Indenture, 376, 378, 564
protective covenants, 430–431
Independent projects, 149
and profitability index, 159
Indifference proposition, 499
Individual securities
covariance and correlation, 245–247
expected return, 273–274
expected return and variance, 243–245
returns on, 286–287
risk and return, 242–247
Industry betas, 313–315
Inflation
and capital budgeting, 177–183
and cash flow, 180–181
and deep-discount bonds, 579–580
and interest rates, 170–180
and purchasing power parity, 878–879
and year-by-year returns, 225, 229
Inflation beta, 289–290
Inflation escalator clause, 700
Inflation risk, 579
Information content effect of dividends, 514–515
Information sets, 346–347
Infrequent annuity, 90
In-house processing float, 781
Initial public offerings, 361–362, 537
case, 558–559
underpricing, 541–543
by venture capitalists, 557–558
Innovation, 287
Insolvency, 854–856
Intangible assets, 3, 23
Intel Corporation, 429
Interest
compound, 70–71
versus dividends, 376–377
simple, 70–71
Interest coverage ratio, 36
Interest expense, 36, 177
Interest on interest, 70, 797
Interest payment, 46
Interest rate
after-tax, 592, 609
annual percentage rate, 79
and bond prices, 106
and call-option values, 624
caps and floors, 723–724
in competitive markets, 51–52
and consumption choices, 48–51
effective annual, 80
effect on callable bonds, 569–572
equilibrium, 48, 49
and exchange rates, 879–883
expectations hypothesis, 137
growing perpetuity, 86
and inflation, 170–180
market, 103
nominal versus real, 179–180
stated annual, 79
term structure, 130–139
Interest rate arbitrage, 52
Interest-rate beta, 289–290
Interest-rate forecasting, 571
Interest-rate futures contracts
hedging in, 709–713
pricing of forward contracts, 707–708
pricing of Treasury bonds, 706–707
Interest-rate parity, 879–883
Interest-rate parity theorem, 879–880
Interest-rate risk, 789
and call provision, 571
and duration hedging, 714–720
and hedging, 710–711
immune to, 719
matching liabilities with assets, 718–720
Interest-rate swaps, 721–722, 874
Internal financing, 382, 439
Internal rate of return, 146–149, 155–157
basic rule, 147
incremental, 154–155
independent or mutually exclusive projects,
149–153
problems with, 149–157
redeeming qualities of, 157–158
scale problem, 153–155
Internal Revenue Service, 175
on auction-rate preferred stock, 794–795
rules on leasing, 590–591
International bond markets, 889–891
International capital budgeting
cost of capital, 886–888
foreign exchange conversion, 883–886
and political risk, 887–888
unremitted cash flows, 886
International corporations, 872
largest, 873
International equity market, 890n
International finance
approaches, 872
exchange-rate risk, 881–883
exchange rates and interest rates,
879–883
foreign exchange markets, 874–876
law of one price, 877
purchasing power parity, 878
reporting foreign operations, 891
terminology for, 872–874
International financial decisions, 888–891
bond markets, 889–891
medium-term financing, 889
short-term financing, 889
International Paper, 323–324
International price-earnings ratios, 122
Internet stock purchases, 327
In the money call, 613
Intuit, 429
Inventory, 23
Inventory accounting, 122–123
Inventory loan, 762
Inventory period, 751–753
Inventory turnover ratio, 35
Inventory valuation, 359
Inventory warehousing costs, 754
Inverse floater, 723
Investment banks
functions of, 539–541
methods of issuing securities, 538–539
reputation capital, 540
services of, 537
Investment decisions, 60–62
average accounting return, 145–146
discounted payback period rule, 143–144
first principle of, 52–53
illustration of, 56–60
and IRR, 146–149
net present value analysis, 140–141
payback period rule, 141–143
problems with IRR, 149–158
and profitability index, 158–159
separation principle, 267–268
Investment policy, and dividend policy, 502
Investments; see also Expected return; Returns
efficient set for many securities, 257–260
efficient set for two assets, 252–257
goals of, 45
of idle cash, 788–790
made under uncertainty, 816
in mutually exclusive projects, 149
net present value of, 68–69
net present value rule, 59–60
present value, 74–78
replacement-chain problem, 184–186
stock repurchase, 508–509
Investors; see also Portfolio
clientele effect, 515
and efficient market hypothesis,
342–343, 344
expectations hypothesis, 137
fooling, 340
homogeneous expectations, 268
liquidity-preference hypothesis, 138–139
and rights offerings, 547–551
and risk, 263–264
risk-neutral, 628
and risky securities, 220
tax brackets, 515
Invoice date, 798–799
Involuntary bankruptcy, 859
IRR. see Internal rate of return
Issued common stock, 372
Japan
debt-equity ratios, 432
high stock prices, 358
Japanese keiretsu, 845–846
Japanese stock market, 122
Junk bonds, 424, 572, 573–578
Kansas City Power and Light, 119
Keiretsu, 845–847
K-factor model, 290–291
Kohlberg, Kravis and Roberts, 490–494, 675
L. L. Bean, 37
Lambda Fund of Drexel Burnham Lambert, 556
Large-company common stock, 225
Law of one price, 877
Lease-or-buy decision, 587
and discount rate, 596
lessor view of, 600–601
net present value analysis, 595–596
net present value calculation, 599
optimal debt level, 594–595
I–12
Subject Index

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Subject Index
951
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
present value of riskless cash flows,
592–594
riskless cash flow, 594–595
Leases
basics of, 586–587
capital lease, 589–590
and debt, 605
financial, 588
offered by manufacturers, 605
offered by third parties, 605
operating, 587
parties to, 586
and taxes, 590–591
types of assets preferred, 605
Leasing
and accounting, 589–590
and accounting income, 604
adjusted-present-value method, 608–610
cash flows of, 591–593
and debt displacement, 596–599
lessor view of, 600–601
one hundred percent financing, 604
reduction of uncertainty by, 603
tax advantages, 601–603
transaction costs, 603
Ledger cash, 779
Lenders, 376
seniority, 378
Lending
example, 53–54
in financial markets, 46–53
riskless, 264–268
Lessee, 586
reservation payment, 602
Lessors, 586
manufacturer, 605
reservation payment, 603
third-party, 605
view of leases, 600–601
Letter of comment, 535
Level-coupon bonds, 103–105
Leverage; see also Financial leverage;
Operating leverage
aversion to, 449
and beta, 481–484
under corporate taxes, 414–415
expected return under corporate taxes,
411–413
target amount of, 440
Leveraged buyouts, 436, 474; see also
Acquisitions
adjusted-present value method, 489–494
defense against takeovers, 840–841
definition, 489–490
with junk bonds, 575
Leveraged equity formula, 413
Leveraged leases, 588
Levered beta, 484
Levered cash flow, 470–471
Levered firm, 391
capital budgeting methods, 468–476
value of, 410–411
Liabilities, 4, 22, 24
dividends as, 496
leases as, 589
Liability-to-equity ratio, 596–597
LIFO (last-in, first-out) accounting, 122–123,
359–360
Limited liability, 13
Limited-liability instrument, 613
Limited partnership, 11, 555
Linear interpolation, 631n
Linearity, 274–275
Line of credit, 761–762
Liquid assets, 756
Liquidating dividend, 495
Liquidation, 377
by bankruptcy, 857–863
legal and administrative costs, 425–426
Liquidity, 746–747
and adverse selection, 325–326
characteristics, 789
and expected return, 325
and futures contracts, 700
optimal amount of, 771
of stock, 325
Liquidity-preference hypothesis, 138–139
Listing requirements, 19
Loan covenants, 430–431
Loan guarantees, 638
Loans
in Eurocurrency market, 889
secured, 762
unsecured, 761–762
Lockboxes, 783–784
Lockheed Corporation, 638
London Interbank Offer Rate, 721, 723–724,
761, 796–797, 889
definition, 874
Long hedge, 704–705, 712–713
Long run, 26–27, 240–241
Long-term corporate bonds, 225
Long-term debt
bond ratings, 572–578
bond refunding, 568–572
direct placement versus public issue, 580–581
features of, 377
indenture, 378
with junk bonds, 573–578
kinds of bonds, 578–580
overview, 563
public issue of bonds, 564–568
repayment, 378
security, 378
seniority, 378
syndicated bank loans, 581–583
types of, 377
Long-term financial planning, 731
Long-term financing, 760; see also Leasing
with common stock, 371–376
with debt, 376–377
feature, 382–385
pecking order, 384
with preferred stock, 379–381
private equity market, 554–558
public issue of equities, 534–547
rights issue of equities, 547–553
with venture capital, 556–559
Long-term government bonds, 225
Loss carrybacks, 43
Loss carryforward, 43, 828
Lower bound of option price, 621
MACRS; see Modified accelerated cost
recovery system
Macy’s, 865
Magnification factor, 270
Mail and wire fraud, 787
Mail float, 781
Make a market, 19
Making delivery, 696
Management, inefficient, 826–827
Management team, 15
Managerial goals, 15–16
Managerial information, 544
Managers
and net present value rule, 62
and shareholder control, 17
Manufacturer lessors, 605
Manufacturers Hanover Venture Capital
Corporation, 556
Marathon Oil, 824n
case, 852–853
Marginal firm, 864
Marginal tax rate, 517
Marked to the market, 698–700
Marketability, 789
Market basket of goods, 878–879
Market capitalization, 354
Market clearing, 47–48
Market-debt ratio, 387
Marketed claims, 434
Market efficiency, timing decision, 361–363
Market-equilibrium portfolio, 268–272
Market for corporate control, 827
Market-impact costs, 325
Marketing, 540
Marketing gains, 824–825
Market interest rate, 103
Market model, 291
Market portfolio, 268–269
definition of risk, 269–271
and one-factor model, 297–298
Market power, from acquisitions, 825
Market price, 38
Market risk, 263, 288
Market risk premium, 240–241
Market-to-book value, 39–40, 374
Market value, 24, 373–374
versus book value, 386–387
and earnings per share, 507
Market-value balance sheet, 402
Market value ratios, 38–40
Market-value weights, 322
Marshall Industries, 453
Matching cash flows, 687
Matching cycles, 184–185
Matrix approach to portfolios, 250, 259, 261
Maturity, 789
calculation of, 716–718
of long-term debt, 563
Maturity date, 102–103, 377
face value, 102
Maturity hedging, 758
Maturity mismatching, 758
McCaw Cellular Communications, 202–203
McDonald’s Corporation, 118
Mean of the distribution, 231–232
Medium-term financing, 889
Subject Index
I–13

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Subject Index
952
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Medstone International, Inc., case, 558–559
Meiji Mutual Life, 846
Mergers; see also Acquisitions; Leveraged
buyouts; Takeovers
bad reasons for, 833–835
cost to shareholders, 830–833
definition, 817
NPV analysis, 835–838
and options, 640–642
Merrill Lynch, 537
Mesa Petroleum, 827, 840
Metallgesellschaft AG, 695
case, 705–706
Mezzanine financing, 575
MG Refining and Marketing, 695
case, 705–706
Microsoft Corporation, 617
Middle South Utilities, 554
Midland Company, 6–9
Midwest Stock Exchange, 18
Milking the property, 429
Miller model
of capital structure, 447–448
and graduated income tax, 462–464
of personal taxes, 445–448
Miller-Orr model, 776–778
implications of, 778
Miller-Scholes tax arbitrage strategy, 513
Minimum variance portfolio, 255
Mitsubishi Bank, 847
Mitsubishi Group, 845
Mitsubishi Motors, 846, 847
Mitsubishi Trust and Banking, 846
Mitsui, 845
MM Proposition I, 395–397
under corporate taxes, 410–411
definition, 397
illustration, 401–405
key assumptions, 397–398
summary of, 407, 416
MM Proposition II, 398–407
under corporate taxes, 411–413
definition, 399
and financial leverage, 399–401
formula, 400
illustration, 401–405
summary of, 407, 416
Mobil Corporation, 852–853
Modified accelerated cost recovery system, 199
Modigliani-Miller thesis; see also MM
Proposition entries
on capital structure, 422
with corporate taxes, 416
on dividend policy, 499, 502, 506, 512
interpretation of results, 405–407
on stock versus debt, 685–686
value of the firm, 432
Momenta International Corporation, 213
Money management style, 301
Money market, 18, 771, 788
Money market banks, 18
Money market securities, 789–790
Monitoring, 540
Monopoly power, from acquisitions, 825
Moody’s Investors Service, 572–573, 789,
790, 793
Mortgage, 378, 709–713
Mortgage-backed bonds, 890
Mortgage securities, 566
Mortgage-trust indenture, 566
Motorola, 213
Multinational corporations, 802
largest, 873
Multiple rates of return, 151–153
Multiples, 121
Mutual funds, 531
record of, 353–354
Mutually exclusive projects, 149, 427–428
and profitability index, 159
replacement-chain problem, 184–186
scale problem, 153–155
timing problem, 155–157
NASDAQ, 18, 517
National Association of Securities Dealers, 18
NCR Corporation, case, 202–203
Negative beta, 220, 270
Negative correlation, 247
Negative covariance, 246
Negative covenant, 430, 567
Negative inflation beta, 289
Negative net present value, 117
Negotiated offer, 541
Net float, 780
Net income, 30
Net investment, 113
Net operating losses, 827–828
Net present value, 59, 66–95; see also
Positive NPV
attributes, 141
case, 175
compared to internal rate of return,
146–149
compounding periods, 79–82
formula, 68, 307
of investment, 68–69
of lease-or-buy decision, 599
multiperiod case, 70–78
negative, 117
one-period case, 66–70
and problems with IRR, 149–157
Net present value analysis
and break-even analysis, 209–212
decision trees, 203–206
and discounted cash flow analysis, 213–215
of granting credit, 803–804
international capital budgeting, 883–886
of investment decisions, 140–141
lease-or-buy decision, 595–596
of mergers, 835–838
option pricing, 626
scenario analysis, 206–209
sensitivity analysis, 206–209
Net present value of growth opportunity
model, 116–117, 119–121
Net present value rule, 59–60
versus average accounting return 
method, 146
in investment decisions, 60–62
Net profit margin, 36
Netstockdirect.com, 327
Netting-out process, 698
Net working capital, 4, 27, 172, 739, 772
additions to, 28
changes in, 176
compared to cash flow, 28
definition, 746
tracing, 746–747
Neutral float position, 780
New York Stock Exchange, 18–19, 225, 325,
364–365, 373, 517, 889
bond market, 107
market value of listed securities, 19
New York Times, 123
Niagara Mohawk, 554
No-dividend firms, 118–119
No-growth condition, 441
Nominal cash flow, 181–182
Nominal interest rate, 179–180
Noncallable bonds, 569
Noncash items, N6
Noncommitted lines of credit, 761
Noncumulative dividends, 380
Nonmarketed claims, 434
Nonmarket-rate financing, 480–481
Nontraditional cash offer, 537
Nonventure equity markets, 555
No-par value, 371
Normal distribution, 234–235, 630
Normal return, 286
Notes, 377
Notes payable, 33
NPV; see Net present value
NPVGO; see Net present value of growth
opportunity model
Odd-lot form of securities, 530
Off-balance-sheet financing, 589
Offering price, 541–543
One-factor model, 291, 292
expected return for individual stocks,
296–297
and market portfolio, 297–298
One hundred percent financing, 604
One-year discount bonds, 102
Open account, 801
Open-end bond issue, 566
Operating cash flow, 4, 28, 30, 40–41
Operating cycle, 750–753
Operating efficiencies, 830
Operating income, uncertain, 451–452
Operating leases, 587
Operating leverage, and beta, 316–317
Opportunity cost, 754
of cash balances, 774
in credit costs, 805–806
of float, 781
in incremental cash flows, 170
of lost interest, 772
Opportunity set, 255–257
Optimal credit policy, 805–807
Optimal debt level, 594–595, 597–599
Optimal portfolio, 266–268
Option-pricing formula, 625–633
binomial model, 658–671
Black-Scholes model, 625–626, 628–633,
650, 652–654
failure of NVP, 626
I–14
Subject Index

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Subject Index
953
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
two-state option model, 626–628
Options
call options, 613–614
and capital structure policy, 639–640
combinations of, 618–620
covered-call strategy, 620
definition, 612
executive stock options, 650–655
in financing decisions, 650
and investment in real projects, 642–644
and mergers, 640–642
put-call parity, 619
puts, 614
selling, 616–617
start-up valuation, 656–658
stock and bond, 633–638
terminology for, 612
trading, 617
valuing, 620–625
variability of underlying asset, 623–624
Wall Street Journal quotes, 617
Option to abandon, 213
Option to buy, 547
Option to expand, 212–213
Option value of a bond, 682–684
Oracle Corporation, 315
Orange County, Calif., bankruptcy, 425, 695
Order costs, 754
Organizational independence, 17
Organizational survival, 17
Organization chart, 6
Original equipment manufacturer, 198
Original-issue discount bonds, 579
Origination fee, 710
Out of the money bond, 680, 689–690
Out of the money call, 613
Oversubscribing, 543
Oversubscription privilege, 551
Over-the-counter market, 18
bond sales, 107
foreign exchange market, 874
Overvaluation, 838
Pacific Enterprises, 520
Pacific Gas and Electric, 554
Pan American Airways, 856
Partnerships, 11–12
compared to corporations, 14
Par value
of bonds, 565
of long-term debt, 377
of stock, 371
Payback period rule
definition, 141–142
discounted, 143–144
managerial perspective, 143
problems with, 142
summary of, 143
Payment in kind debt, 490n
Payment ratio, 114–115
Payments pattern, 810
Payout ratio, 38
Pecking order, 384
Pecking-order theory, 438–440
implications of, 440
rules of, 439–440
Pennzoil, 427
Percentage-of-completion method, 123
Percentage returns, 222–224
Perfectly competitive financial markets,
51–52
Performance shares, 17
Period costs, 27
Perpetuity, 83–84
formula, 95
Perquisites, 436
Personal taxes, 422, 443–448
and dividends, 509–511
Miller model, 445–448
Phillips Petroleum, 827
PI decision rule, 159
Pie model of capital structure, 390–391, 408,
433–434
Pillsbury, 612, 640–642
Piper Jaffrey, 695
Plain-vanilla bonds, 578
Planned expenditures, 788–789
PLM International, Inc, case, 13–14
Plug variable, 734
Poison pills, 841
Political risk, 887–888
Pooling-of-interests accounting, 822–823
Population distribution, 235–236
Portfolio, 247
and CAPM, 275
diversification effect, 251–252, 254,
260–264, 293–295
efficient set for many securities,
257–260
efficient set for two assets, 252–257
expected return, 248–249
factor models, 291–295
growth stock, 301
hedge, 250
internationally diversified, 888
investor risk, 263–264
market-equilibrium, 268–272
matrix approach, 250, 259, 261
minimum variance, 255
opportunity set, 255–257
optimal, 266–268
risk and return, 247–252
risk-free securities, 264–266
standard deviation, 250–252, 259–260
value stock, 301
variance, 249–252, 259–260, 261–262
Portfolio risk, 262–263
for equally weighted portfolio, 295
Positive correlation, 247
Positive covariance, 246
Positive covenant, 430, 567
Positive float, 779–780
Positive NPV, 200
case, 202–203
and corporate strategy analysis, 200–203
creating, 201
Post, 19
Preemptive right, 375
Preference, 379
Preferred stock
adjustable-rate, 793–794
auction-rate, 794–795
as consol, 105
convertible, 680–681
as debt, 380
definition, 379
dividends, 380
stated value, 379
Preferred stock puzzle, 381
Premium, currency at, 879
Premium selling, 106
Prepackaged bankruptcy, 865–866
Present value, 59
algebraic formula, 78
of annuity, 86–91
break-even point, 211–212
of common stock, 108–112
and discounting, 74–78
of dividends, 111–112
of firm, 94–95
formula for bonds, 107
formulas, 95
of growing annuity, 91–93
of growing perpetuity, 84–86
of perpetuity, 83–84
of projects, 469–470
of pure discount bond, 103
of riskless cash flow, 592–594
tables, 898–901, 909–912
of tax shield, 409–410, 492–493
of two annuities, 90–91
of unlevered cash flow, 492
Present value analysis, 67
Present value factor, 765
Price conversion, 689
Price-earnings ratios, 38–39, 121–123
accounting methods, 122
and discount rate, 122
factors determining, 123
international, 122
Japanese stock market, 122
Price fluctuations, 348
Price movements, 661
Price-pressure effects, 364–365
Price takers, 51
Price-taking assumption, 51
Primary basis report of earnings, 678
Primary market, 18
Principal, 103, 376, 377
Principal repayment, 46
Principal value, of bonds, 565
Private equity firm, 555
Private placement, 18
of bonds, 580–581
equity securities, 554–555
new securities, 537
Private workout, 857, 863–864
Privileged subscription, 537
Probability theory, 262
Procter and Gamble, 695, 825
Product costs, 27
Production set-up costs, 745
Profitability index, 158–159
Profitability ratios, 36–38
Profit margins, 36
Pro forma financial statements, 359, 734
Promissory note, 802
Prospectus, 534–535
Subject Index
I–15

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Subject Index
954
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Protective covenants, 430–431, 563, 567; see
also Restrictive covenants
and investment opportunities, 571
Proxy contests, 819
Proxy fight, 375
Proxy voting, 375
Public issue
announcement and firm value, 543–544
of bonds, 564–568, 580–581
cash offer, 537–543
costs of, 544–547
kinds of, 535–537
steps, 534–535
Purchase method of accounting, 821–822
Purchase-sale arrangement, 538
Purchasing power parity, 878–879
Pure discount bonds, 102–103, 579
Put, floating-rate CDs, 796
Put-call parity, 619, 636
Put options
definition, 614
factors determining values, 624–625
firms expressed in terms of, 635–636
selling, 616–617
value at expiration, 614–616
Put provision, 578
Q ratio, 39–40
Qualcomm, 454, 520
Quarterly compounding, 79
Quartiles, 301
Quick assets, 33
Quick ratio, 33
Quote, 325
Random walk, 344
Random walk hypothesis, 349–350
Ratio analysis
activity ratios, 34–35
current ratio, 33
debt ratio, 35–36
dividend yield, 39
interest coverage, 36
inventory turnover, 35
market price, 38
market-to-book value ratio, 39–40
market value ratios, 38–40
payout ratio, 38
price-earnings ratio, 38–39, 121–123
profitability, 36–38
profit margin, 36
quick ratio, 33
receivables turnover, 34
retention ratio, 38
return on assets, 37
return on equity, 37
sustainable growth rate, 38
Tobin’s Q, 39–40
total asset turnover, 34
Real cash flow, 181–182
Real interest rate, 179–180
Real-world betas, 312
Receivables, assigned or factored, 762
Receivables turnover ratio, 34
Red herring, 534–535
Refunding, 568–572
Registered bonds, 890
Registration requirement, 18
Registration statement, 534
for bonds, 564
Regression, 312
Regular cash dividends, 495
Regulation A, 534
Relative purchasing power parity, 878–879
Rembrandt bonds, 874
Reopening decision, 665–671
Reorganization, 857–863, 862–863
legal and administrative costs, 425–426
Repayment, 378
Replacement-chain problem, 184–186
Replacement market, 198
Replacement value, 373–374
Repurchase agreements, 790
Repurchase of stock; see Stock repurchase
Repurchase standstill agreements, 839–840
Reputation capital, 540
Required return on equity, 399
Reservation payment, 602–603
Residual losses, 15
Residual value, 603
Restrictive covenants, 378, 431
Restructuring, at TWA, 856–857
Retained earnings, 113–114, 372–373
Retention ratio, 38, 113–114
Return and risk; see Risk and return
Return on assets, 37
and economic value added, 334–335
Return on equity, 37, 113
Return on the retained earnings, 113–114
Returns; see also Expected return; Risk-free
returns
abnormal, 351–352
average stock returns, 232–233
comparison of financial instruments, 233
continuation of, 349
and cost of capital, 325
dollar returns, 221–222
holding-period, 225–231
on individual securities, 286–287
and market capitalization, 354
parameters for, 293
percentage, 222–224
reversal of, 349
on risky securities, 220
stock versus government securities, 240–241
and temporal anomalies, 354–355
value versus growth stocks, 355–356
variability of, 834–835
Return statistics, 231–232
Revco, 865
case, 866–867
Revenue enhancement, 824–825
Revenue recognition, 26
Revenues, 206
cyclicality of, 315–316
Reversal returns, 349
Reverse split, 531
Rights, 547, 548–549
Rights offer, 535
definition, 547
effect on stock price, 549–551
effects on shareholders, 550–551
mechanics of, 547–548
number of rights needed, 548–549
subscription price, 548
underwriting arrangements, 551
Rights puzzle, 551–553
Risk; see also Derivatives; Hedging
in adjustable-rate preferred stock, 794
in auction-rate preferred stock, 795
of cash flow, 8–9
in credit policy, 802–805
with derivatives, 695–696
diversifiable, 262–263
market, 263
and market portfolio, 269–271
portfolio, 262–263
and selfish investment strategy, 427–429
and sensible investors, 263–264
and separation principle, 267–268
systematic and unsystematic, 287–288
total, 262
unsystematic, 262–263
Risk and return, 219
and capital asset pricing model, 272–275
CAPM versus APT, 298–299
efficient set for two assets, 252–257
frequency distribution, 233, 234
for individual securities, 242–247
market-equilibrium portfolio, 268–271
in one-factor model, 296–297
optimal portfolio, 266–268
for portfolios, 247–252
in U.S. capital markets, 225–231
for world stocks, 257
Risk-averse investors, 138, 263, 423n
Risk-based models, 300
Risk exposure, 348
Risk-free rate, 274, 628
Risk-free returns, 232–233
Risk-free securities, 264–266
Riskless cash flow
optimal debt level and, 594–595
present value of, 593–594
Riskless debt, 439
Riskless tax shield, 482
Risk-neutral investors, 138
Risk-neutral pricing, 659
Risk-neutral probabilities, 659–660, 662
Risk-neutral valuation, 627–628
Risk premium, 232–233, 272
historical, 240–241
Risk statistics, 234–236, 242–247
covariance and correlation, 245–247
expected return and variance, 243–245
normal distribution, 234–235
standard deviation, 234
variance, 234
Risk synergy, 687–688
Risky return, 286
RJR Nabisco buyout, 490–494, 575
Rolling, 795
Roll over, 579
Round lot, 530–531
Rule 144A, 555
Saab automobiles, 212–213
Safety reserves costs, 754
I–16
Subject Index

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Subject Index
955
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Safeway, Inc., 675
SAIR; see Stated annual interest rate
Sale-and-lease-back, 588
Sale-of-assets divestiture, 838–839
Sales forecasts, 734
Sales-type leasing, 587
Salomon Smith Barney, 537
Sampling error, 236
Samurai bonds, 874
Scale-enhancing project, 483–484
Scale problem, 153–155
Scenario analysis, 206–209
Scorched earth strategy, 841
Scoville, 841
Seagate Technology, 680, 681–682
Sears, 315
Seasonal activities, 788
Seasoned new issue, 537
Secondary market, 18
Secured debt, 811
Secured loans, 762
Securities; see also Bonds; Expected return;
Returns; Stock
adjustable-rate preferred stock, 793–794
American Depository Receipts, 872–873
announcement of new issue, 543–544
auction-rate preferred stock, 794–795
bearer instruments, 47
beta of, 269–271, 283–284
cash management with floating-rate CDs,
796–797
characteristic line, 269–270
as contingent claims, 9–10
costs of new issues, 469, 544–547
creative view of, 340–341
dribble method of new issuance, 554
hybrid, 377
kinds of, 2, 17–18
marketing of, 18
methods of issuing, 537
money market, 789–790
private equity market, 554–558
private placement, 554–555
public offerings, 534–535
rights offering, 547–553
risk-free, 264–266
round lots, 530–531
shelf registration, 553–554
short-term marketable, 788–789
tracking stock, 838–839
trading, 534
trading range, 530–531
Securities Act of 1933, 534, 889
Securities and Exchange Commission, 359, 524
bond registration, 564
letter of comment, 535
on private placement, 554–555
registration requirement, 18, 534
Rule 144A, 555
shelf registration, 553–554
Securities dealers, 18
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 534, 553
Securitization, 811
Security
of bonds, 566–567
of debt, 378
Security analysts, 327
Security market line, 274–275, 296–297
compared to dividend valuation model, 309n
and cost of capital, 320
to estimate risk-adjusted discount rate, 310
Seed-money, 557
Selfish investment strategy
costs of, 430
by firms, 427–428
by shareholders, 428–429
Selling a covered call, 620
Selling expenses, 27
Semiannual compounding, 79, 82
Semistrong-form efficiency, 346–347
event studies, 351–352
evidence on, 350–354
record of mutual funds, 353–354
Semivariance, 235n
Sempra Energy, 119
Seniority, 378
Sensitivity analysis, 206–209
Separation of ownership and control, 12–13,
16–17
Separation principle/theorem, 56, 62,
267–268
Serial correlation, 349–350
Serial correlation coefficients
largest U. S. companies, 350
positive and negative, 349–350
Set-of-contracts viewpoint, 15
Shareholder disinterest, 348–349
Shareholder diversification, 887
Shareholders, 4, 371
and acquisitions, 817
appraisal rights, 817
and bankruptcy costs, 424
benefits of acquisitions, 842–845
versus bondholders, 513
and cash flow of firm, 634–635
coinsurance effect, 833
contingent value rights, 612, 640
cost of mergers, 830–833
effect of rights offering, 550–551
interests of, versus value of the firm,
391–393
leverage and returns to, 393–395
and loan guarantees, 638
and managerial behavior, 17
and managerial goals, 15
of preferred stock, 380
and put option terms, 635–636
and rights offerings, 547–551
risk of financial leverage, 398–399
Shareholders’ books, 175
Shareholders’ equity, 4, 22, 24
Shareholders’ rights, 374–375
Shares, 371
Share warrants, 547
Shelf cash offer, 537
Shelf life, 35
Shelf registration, 553–554
Shirking, 435
Shiva Corporation, 541
Shortage costs, 754–756
Short hedge, 703–704, 712
Short run, 26–27
Short-run operating activities, 750–751
Short-term borrowing, 758
Short-term debt, 563
Short-term financial planning, 731
banker’s acceptance, 762
carrying costs, 754–756
cash budgeting, 759–761
cash cycle, 750–753
commercial paper, 762
financing current assets, 753, 756–759
flexible versus restrictive, 753–754
international, 889
net working capital in, 746
operating cycle, 750–753
secured loans, 762
shortage costs, 754–756
and size of investment in current assets,
753–756
tracing cash and working capital, 746–747
unsecured loans, 761–762
Short-term marketable, 788–789
Short-term solvency, 33
Short-term tax-exempts, 790
Shutdown decision, 665–671
Sight draft, 802
Simple interest, 70–71
Singapore Airlines, 771
Singer Asset Finance Company, case, 93
Sinking fund, 378, 567–568
Skewed distribution, 234
Small-company common stock, 225
Small-issues exemption, 534
Smell-of-death explanation, 580
Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial
Telecommunications, 874
Sole proprietorship, 11
Sony Corporation, 845
Sources-and-uses-of-cash statement,
748–750
Southern California Edison, 453
Southern Company, 554
South Sea Bubble, 357
Specific risk, 287
Speculating, 696
Speculative markets, 357–359
Spin-off divestiture, 838–839
Spot exchange rate, 876
interest-rate parity, 879
and law of one price, 877
Spot rate, 130–139
expected, 881
Spot trades, 876
Spread, 538, 544
Spread discount, 544
Spreading overhead, 825
Spread of a distribution, 234
Sprint PCS, 839
Staggering, 374
Staggering board elections, 839
Standard and Poor’s Corporation, 572–573,
789, 790, 793, 889
Standard and Poor’s 500 Index, 225, 299,
312, 313
as benchmark, 301
market portfolio, 268–269
standard deviation, 252, 253
Subject Index
I–17

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Subject Index
956
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Standard deviation, 234
calculating, 244
definition, 242
formula, 245
implications of normal distribution,
234–236
of portfolio, 250–252
in portfolio of many assets, 259–260
S&P 500 Index, 252, 253
Standardized normal distribution, 630–632
Standby fee, 551
Standby rights offer, 537
Standby underwriting, 551
Standstill agreements, 839–840
Start-up, 557
valuing, 655–658
Stated annual interest rate, 79
compared to effective rate, 80
Stated liquidation value of share, 379
Statement of cash flows, 27–30
cash flow from financing activities, 41
cash flow from investing activities, 41
cash flow from operating activities, 40–41
Statement of consolidated cash flows, 42
Statements of Financial Accounting
Standards
No. 13, 589–590
No. 52, 891
Static trade-off theory, 433
versus pecking-order theory, 440
Stock, 2; see also Expected return; Returns
abnormal returns, 351–352
block trades, 364–365
dribble method of new issuance, 554
exchange trading, 19
growth portfolios, 355–356
information sources, 342–343
issuance costs and dividends, 503–506
issued to pay dividends, 504
liquidity of, 325
listings, 19
as options, 633–638
public issue, 524–527
surprises and announcements, 286–287
synthetic, 619
tracking stock, 838–839
value portfolios, 355–356
Stock acquisition, 817–818
Stock-based insolvency, 855–856
Stock dividends, 496, 529–532
Stock exchanges, 18–19
Stock-for-stock transactions, 640
Stockholders; see Shareholders
Stock market
bubble theory, 357–359
and corporate strategy analysis, 201–202
information from dividend policy, 520
and price-earnings ratios, 122
random walk, 344
reaction to new issue announcement,
543–544
returns on, 221–232
Stock market crash of 1929, 356–357
Stock market crash of 1987, 356
Stock market reporting, 123–124
Stock options, 612
Stockpower.com, 327
Stock prices
in binomial model, 626–628
in Black-Scholes model, 628–633
and call option price, 613
and convertible bonds, 684–685
under corporate taxes, 414–415
and debt-equity ratio, 450–451
effect of rights offering, 549–551
fluctuations, 348
and increase in dividends, 504
information sets, 346–347
and IPOs, 361–362
in Japan, 358
manipulation of, 201–202
price-pressure effects, 364–365
and stock issues, 361
Stock repurchase, 506–509
versus dividend payouts, 507
and earnings per share, 507
exclusionary self-tenders, 840
as investment, 508–509
targeted, 508, 839–840
and taxes, 508
Stock split, 326–327, 496, 529–532
Straight bond value, 681
Straight debt versus convertible debt,
684–685
Straight-line depreciation, 26, 123, 145, 359
Straight voting, 374
Strategic benefits of acquisitions, 825
Strategic fit, 830
Strike price, 612
and call option values, 622–624
Strong-form efficiency, 346–347
evidence on, 359
Style portfolios, 301
Subordinated debt, 378
Subscription price, 548
Subsidies, 340
Sunk costs, 170
Superfloaters, 723
Superinverse floaters, 723
Supermajority amendment, 839
Surplus funds, 828–829
Surprises, 287
Sustainable growth, 731, 742
Sustainable growth rate, 38, 739–741
Swap rate, 876
Swaps contracts, 874
currency swaps, 722–723
interest-rate, 721–722
Sweep accounts, 788
Symmetric distribution, 234–235
Syndicate, 538
Syndicated bank loans, 581–583
Synergy, 816
determining, 823–824
measuring, 845
sources of, 824–829
Synthetic stock, 619
Systematic risk, 287–288
and beta coefficient, 289
and betas, 288–291
of foreign stock investment, 887–888
Systematic variability, 834–835
Takeovers, 17, 818–819; see also
Acquisitions; Mergers
crown jewels, 841
defenses against, 838–841
and golden parachutes, 841
poison pill, 841
Taking delivery, 696
Tangible fixed assets, 3, 23
Target cash balance
Baumol model, 773–776
and borrowing, 778–779
compensating cash balance, 779
Miller-Orr model, 776–778
Target debt-equity ratio, 735
Targeted repurchase, 839
Targeted stock repurchase, 508
Taxability, 789
Taxable acquisition, 819–820
Taxable income, 26
Tax arbitrage, 513
Tax books, 175
Tax code, quirk in, 408–409
Tax deductibility
limited, 448
unlimited, 447
Taxes
basics of, 408
and call provision, 571
current, 26
and debt-equity ratio, 451
deferred, 26
and dividends, 375, 444–445, 503–506
and financial distress costs, 432–434
graduated income tax, 462–464
and leases, 590–591
personal, 443–448
and preferred stock, 381
quirk in tax code, 408–409
and stock repurchase, 508
value of leveraged firm, 410–411
Taxes advantages of leasing, 601–603
Tax-free acquisition, 819–820, 838
Tax gains
from acquisitions, 819–820, 827–829
from mergers, 829
Tax operating loss, 43
Tax rates, real-world, 447
Tax Reform Act of 1986, 13, 175, 199,
794, 828n
Tax shield, 474
from debt, 410
from flotation costs, 479
and leasing, 609
present value of, 409–410, 492–493
riskless, 482
Tax subsidy, 479–480
TCI, Inc., 203
Technical analysis, 345
Technical analysts, 345
Temporal anomalies, 354–355
Tender offer, 817–818
Term loans, 580–581
Terms of sale, 798–802
cash discounts, 800–801
credit instruments, 801–802
credit period, 799
I–18
Subject Index

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Subject Index
957
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Term structure of interest rates,
130–139, 758
forward rate, 132–134
Texaco, 427
Texas State Court, 427
Textron, 556
Theoretical distribution, 235
Third-party lessors, 605
Time horizon, 138
Time preference theory, 48–51
Time value of money, 307
compounding periods, 79–82
definition, 66
future value and compounding, 70–73
future value concept, 66
power of compounding, 73–74
present value and discounting, 74–78
present value concept, 67–68
Timing assumption, 86
Timing of decisions, 361–363
Timing problem, 155–157
Tobin’s Q, 39–40, 374
Tokio Marine and Fire, 846
Tokyo Stock Market, 122
Tombstone advertisement, 535, 536
Total annual return, 233
Total asset turnover ratio, 34
Total cash flow, 28, 30
Total cost curve, 754–755
Total cost of cash balances, 775–776
Total-credit-cost curve, 806
Total dollar return, 222
Total investment, 113
Total return, 223
year-by-year, 229–230
Total risk, 262–263
Toys “R” Us, 788
Tracking stock, 838–839
Trade credit, 798
Trade credit financing, 811
Trade-off theory; see Static trade-off 
theory
Trading costs, 754, 772, 775
Trading range, 530–531
Transaction costs
of leasing, 603
of reverse split, 531
of stock splits and dividends, 531
Transactions motive, 772
Trans World Airways, 856–857
Treasury bills, 225, 789
returns on, 232–233
Treasury bonds, 789
futures contracts, 709
pricing of, 706–707
Treasury notes, 789
Treasury stock, 373–374
Triangular arbitrage, 876
Triple tops pattern, 345
True distribution, 235–236
Trust deed, 566
Trust receipt, 762
Tulip craze, 357
Two-state option model, 626–628
amount of borrowing, 627
applications, 658–671
determining delta, 627
risk-neutral valuation, 627–628
Two-year discount bonds, 102
Uncertain return, 286
Uncertainty resolution, 512
Underinvestment, 428–429
Underlying asset
of derivatives, 695–696
variability of, 623–624
Underpricing, 541–543, 545
Undersubscription, 551
Underwriters
of Eurobonds, 890
functions, 540
and rights offerings, 551, 553
top U. S., 538
Underwriting discount, 544
Underwriting risk, 540
Underwriting syndicate, 18, 538
Unfunded debt, 563
Unique risk, 263
United Airlines, 856
United States
federal tax rates, 42–43
historical financing patterns, 383
largest bankruptcies, 855
United States Bankruptcy Code, 857
United States government bonds, 232–233
United States Steel, 359, 824n
case, 852–853
Unlevered beta, 483–484
Unlevered cash flow, 470–471, 472, 473
present value of, 492
Unocal, 827, 840
Unremitted cash flows, 886
Unseasoned new issue, 537
Unsecured loans, 761–762
Unsystematic risk, 262–263, 287–288
in APT, 298
in diversified portfolio, 296, 297
Unsystematic variability, 834–835
Unused debt capacity, 828
Upper bound of option price, 621
Up-state price, 661
USX Corporation, 359
Valuation
adjusted-present-value method, 468–470,
478–481
comparison of methods, 473–476
of convertible bonds, 681–684
of executive compensation, 652–655
of executive stock options, 654–655
flow-to-equity method, 470–471
of leasing, 596–599
in leveraged buyouts, 490–494
of options, 620–625
under personal/corporate taxes, 445–448
risk-neutral, 627–628
of start-up, 655–658
weighted-average-cost-of-capital method,
471–472
Value
of American options, 625
of assets, 26
of bonds, 102–105
of a call option, 613–614
of cash cow, 121
of common stock, 108–112
versus cost, 24
of put option, 614–616, 624–625
Value creation, 339–341
Value Line Investment Survey, 332
Value of levered firm, 410–411
Value of the firm, 4, 28, 94–95
and acquisitions, 816
after acquisition, 829–830
and changes in financial leverage, 450
and financial leverage, 393–398
and growth rate, 112–115
and marketed claims, 434
in Miller model, 448
Modigliani-Miller thesis, 432
net of debt, 679
and new issue announcement, 543–544
versus shareholder interests, 391–393
and taxes, 408–416
Value stock, 301, 355–356
Variability of return, 834–835
Variable costs, 26–27, 207, 316
Variables
for call-option values, 625
negatively correlated, 247
plug, 734
positively correlated, 247
uncorrelated, 247
Variance, 234
calculating, 244
definition, 242
formula, 250
matrix approach, 250, 259
of portfolio, 249–252, 261–262
in portfolio of many assets, 259–260
Venture capital
case, 558–559
and IPOs, 557–558
market for, 554
stages of financing, 556–557
suppliers of, 556–557
Vertical acquisition, 818
Vertical integration, 826
Video Product Company, 2
WACC; see Weighted average cost of
capital
Wages, taxes, and other expenses, 760
Waiting period, 534–535
Walk-away-from option, 613
Wall Street Journal, 104, 107, 123, 352n,
701–702
Warrants, 674–676
Black-Scholes model, 679–680
compared to call potions, 675–678
kinds of issues, 687–689
reasons for issuing, 684–687
Weak-form efficiency, 333–346
evidence on, 349–353
Weighted average cost of capital, 321–323,
324, 399, 401
and corporate taxes, 413–414
determining, 484
Subject Index
I–19

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
Subject Index
958
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Weighted-average-cost-of-capital method,
471–472
compared to adjusted-present value
method, 473
compared to flow-to-equity method, 474
formula, 485
guidelines, 474–476
for tax shield, 492–493
Weighted average of betas, 293
Weighted average of expected returns, 248,
251, 293
Weighted average of standard deviations,
251, 252
Weighted average of unsystematic risk, 293
Westinghouse, 700
What-if analysis, 206
White knight, 853
Winner’s curse, 543
Wire transfers, 784–786
Working capital, 176
Xerox Corporation, 122, 288
Yankee bonds, 874, 889–890
Yield to maturity, 106–107, 130–139
Zero-balance account, 787
Zero bond, 102
Zero-coupon bonds, 102, 130–139, 579
duration hedging, 714
Zero covariance, 247
Zero-growth stock, 109–111
Zero inflation beta, 289
Zero-sum transactions, 723
Z-score model, 869–871
I–20
Subject Index

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
End Papers
959
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
AR
Abnormal return
APT
Arbitrage pricing theory
CAPM
Capital asset pricing model
CAR
Cumulative abnormal return
Ct
Cash flow at period t
Corr(x,y)
Correlation between x and y
or xy
Cov(x,y)
Covariance between x and y
or xy
d
Dividend payout ratio
Dep
Depreciation
Divt
Dividend payment at period t
e
2,71828 (base for natural 
logarithms)
E
Exercise price of option
EBIT
Earnings before interest and 
taxes
EPS
Earnings per share
g
Growth rate
IRR
Internal rate of return
Lt
Lease payment in year t
NPV
Net present value
Pt
Price of stock at time t
PV
Present value
Rm
Return on market portfolio
Rp
Return on portfolio P
rB
Cost of debt
rB(1 TC)
After-tax cost of debt
rF
Risk-free interest rate
rn
Nominal interest rate
rr
Real interest rate
rS
Cost of equity
R
 or E(R)
Expected returns
R2
R squared
RP
Risk premium
S£(t)
Spot exchange rate between 
British pound and 
U.S. dollar at time t
SML
Security market line
Tc
Corporate income tax rate
VL
Value of a levered firm
(VL  B  S)
VU
Value of an unlevered firm 
(VU  S)
rWACC
Weighted average cost 
of capital

Beta; the slope of the market 
model; a measure of risk
asset
Asset beta or firm beta
equity
Equity beta

Standard deviation
2
Variance

Inflation rate

Sum of
Some Commonly Used Notations

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
End Papers
960
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
Some Useful Formulas
1 Present Value (Chapters 3 and 4)
The discounted value of T future cash flows
PV 

 . . . 
 
T
t  1
2 Net Present Value (Chapters 3 and 4)
Present value minus initial costs
NPV  PV  Cost
CO   Cost
NPV  CO  
T
t  1
3 Perpetuity (Chapter 4)
The value of C received each year, forever
PV 
4 Annuity (Chapter 4)
The value of C received each year for T years
PV 
[1  1/(l  r)t]
5 Growing Perpetuity (Chapter 4)
The value of a perpetuity that grows at rate g, where the first payment is C
PV 
6 Growing Annuity (Chapter 4)
The value of a T-period annuity that grows at the rate g, where the first
payment is C
PV  C



T
7 Measures of Risk for Individual Assets (Chapter 10)
Var (RA)  2
A  Expected value of (RA  RA)2
SD (RA)  A  V
ar
 (RA)

Cov (RA,RB)  AB  Expected value of [(RA RA) (RB  RB)]
Corr (RA,RB)  
AB  Cov (RARB)/AB
8 Expected Return on a Portfolio of Two Assets (Chapter 10)
Rp  XARA  XBRB
9 Variance of a Portfolio of Two Assets (Chapter 10)
2
p  X2
A  2
A  2XAXB  AB  X2
B  2
B
1  g

l  r
1

r  g
1

r  g
C

r  g
C
r
C
r
Ct

(l   r)t
Ct

(1  r)t
CT

(1  r)T
C2

(1  r)2
C1

1  r

Ross−Westerfield−Jaffe: 
Corporate Finance, Sixth 
Edition
Back Matter
End Papers
961
© The McGraw−Hill 
Companies, 2002
10 Beta of a Security (Chapter 10)
A 
11 Capital Asset Pricing Model (Chapter 10)
RA  RF  A  (RM  RF)
12 k-Factor Model (Chapter 11)
Ri  RF  i1F1  i2F2  . . .  ikFk  	i
13 Leverage and the Cost of Equity (Chapter 12)
Before tax:
rS  rO 
(rO  rB)
After tax:
rS  
 
(1  TC)(
  rB)
14 Value of the Firm under Corporate Taxes (Chapter 15)
VL  VU  TCB
15 Weighted Average Cost of Capital (Chapter 15)

 rS 
 rB (1  TC)
16 Equity Beta (Chapter 17)
No-tax case: Unlevered firm 
 Equity
Corporate tax case: Unlevered firm 
 Equity
17 Black-Scholes Model (Chapter 22)
C  SN(d1)  Eert N(d2)
where d1  [ln (S/E)  (r  1⁄22)t]/2t
d2  d1  2t
18 Sustainable Growth (Chapter 26)
Growth 
P  (1  d)  1  L)

T  [P  (1  d)  (1  L)]
Equity

Equity  (1  TC) Debt
Equity

Debt  Equity
B

S  B
S

S  B
BS
BS
Cov (RA, RM)

2(RM)


Errors have been found in the recently published Sixth Edition of 
Ross/Westerfield/Jaffe’s CORPORATE FINANCE.  It is important to understand that the 
errors were not the fault of the authors, but that they are related to problems that we had 
with the book’s compositor.  The authors (and the McGraw-Hill/Irwin organization) are 
very upset that this vendor compromised the quality of their work.  The vendor is paying 
to correct the mistakes and reprint the Sixth Edition.  However, until that printing is 
available, we are providing a listing of the most problematic errors found.   
 
We regret the inconvenience that this has caused both instructors and students.   
 
 
Errors within Ross, Westerfield, Jaffe’s Corporate Finance, 6e: 
 
1. Page 84, $1.666.67 should be $1,666.67 
2. Page 101, Questions 4.49-4.51 should be moved after 4.47, under Annuities and 
Growing Annuities 
3. Page 104, the second equation for Value of a Level-Coupon Bond should read  
4. “(1 + r)" in the denominator, not “(1 - r)"   
5. Page 131, = $914.06 should not be in the denominator but rather the answer for 
the entire equation 
6. Page 154, 2nd line, “The profit on opportunity 1 buys only one round.”  One 
round, not two. 
7. Page 187, “PV/8 – year annuity factor at 15% = …”   
Not           “PV/8 = year annuity factor at 15% = …” 
8. Page 188, Top and bottom equation should be:  
$4,000 + $1,000/1.15 - $2,500/1.15 = $2,696 and 
$2,500 + $2,000/1.15 - $1,500/1.15 = $2,935 
(second symbol should be a minus sign, not a plus sign) 
9. Page 211, EAC equation, denominator should read: 5-year annuity factor at 15%   
      (not: 5 – year annuity factor at 15%) 
10. Page 299, middle equation, = 0.0041 + 0.0136_ 0.0001 – 0.0006+ 0.0072 – 0.0052 
Should be minus and plus sign on subscript 
11. Page 313, Figure 12.3, lower right quadrant should read “Sears, Roebuck versus  
S & P 500 - Beta 1.29” 
12. Page 355, Figure 13.8, second column from right should measure at 13.71, not 
17.10 
13. Page 448, Bottom of page, Reference to Figures 16.4 and 16.5 should be 
references to 14.3 and 14.4 
14. Page 449, Reference to years “1980 to 1994” should be to “1988 to 1999”  
15. Page 493, $26,654 billion should be $26.654 billion 
16. Page 518, Figure 18.7, the first year range should be “1958-62” 
17. Page 519, Figure 18.8, years should read “1962, 1966, 1970, 1974, 1978, 1982, 
1986, 1990, 1994, 1998” 
18. Page 523, Figure 18.9, Title should have years “1983 to 2000” 
19. Page 555, Figure 19.2, Title should read: “Corporate Equity Security Offerings: 
1997” 

20. Page 619, Figure 22.5, Middle figure should read:  Value of zero-coupon bond at 
expiration ($)” 
21. Page 645, Page references missing on Key Terms section 
22. Page 661, Figure 23.2, Top of figure equation:  “($.051 = $1.56 - $1.05) 
23. Page 739, Middle equation, TS = [S x p x (1 – d)] + [s x p x (1 – d) x L] 
         (first equal sign should not be multiplication sign) 
24. Page 767, In “Liabilities and Equity”, second line, under “20x1”, number should 
      be “11,617” not “1,617” 
25. Page 803, Equation second from bottom, .9x$50x200/1.01 - $5,000 = $3,910.89 
“- $5,000” not “= $5,000 
26. Page 823, Under Firm A, Across from Buildings, number should be “8” not “18” 
27. Index and TOC, EVA and Real Options (new sections) are not listed in either 
section 
 
 

