If he becomes a trained and separated person, he creates a standing army, the most terrible tool in the hands of the rulers of the state, which is used against his rights and his freedom every time the bourgeois sheep become unruly under the monarchical scissors. If the people entrust the right and the duty to "administer justice" to permanent officials rather than to magistrates, they run the risk of a bureaucracy and a jurisprudence establishing themselves and developing which, the devil knows! whatever foreign, Roman "law" is based on, just not that based on the legal views of the people.
Little Switzerland, crammed in the middle of powerful monarchies whose population is a hundred times larger, despite the pernicious monarchical influences, despite the miasma of God's grace, has for centuries at least partially preserved the proto-Germanic health, the eternally true principles of those Germanic tribes before which the oppressive Rome trembled, especially those of arming the people. Because the Swiss armed forcesman always has defenses and weapons at home, i.e. h. had the armed right to vote because the Swiss never wanted anything to do with a standing army, that's why their republic was preserved and that's why the awakening national spirit was always able to easily break through.
With all the force that historical memory from Germanic antiquity and from the heroic times of the old Confederation (where the people in the large cantons were consulted about important questions such as war and peace, the Reformation, taxes, etc. and their approval or rejection was obtained) can give a modern idea, direct legislation by the people is now breaking out in the Swiss people. It already rightly exists in the larger cantons of German-speaking Switzerland, Bern, Thurgau, Graubünden, but above all in 3 Zurich, whichever canton has the most pronounced and purest constitution. The movement that is already beginning
1
7
direct legislation by the people also wants to extend to federal legislation in such a form as it could be exercised by the people in the largest states.
The French Constitution of 1793, which at its peak contains the ever-memorable Declaration of Human Rights, established direct legislation by the people, albeit in a less developed form than it appears today, namely in the form of the so-called veto, where a certain number of those entitled to vote must raise an objection before the vote on the law in question takes place.
Article 53 of the French Constitution of 1793 says;
“The legislative body proposes laws (propose des lois).
Art. 58. "The draft law will be printed and sent to all municipalities of the Republic under the title: Law - Proposal (loi proposée)".
Art. 59. If 40 days after sending the legislative proposal, in "the half of the departments, more than one, the tenth part of the" regularly convened primary assemblies have not complained, the draft is accepted and becomes law.
Art. 60. “If this complaint is made, the legislative body must “convene the original assemblies” (for the purpose of voting on laws). Unfortunately, this constitution was never implemented because the severity of the external and internal difficulties of the young republic did not allow peaceful development. But just as in the life of nations a good idea is never lost and no step towards improvement is taken in vain, these ideas from 1793 also lay dormant deep in the hearts of the French people. When the second republic emerged from the February Revolution of 1848 and the Social Democrat Nittinghausen of Cologne introduced the idea of direct legislation by the people, the further development and spread of which he had made as his life's task, into the French people in 1850 and 1851, these thoughts immediately ignited and a powerful movement broke out in the minds against the representative state, which would inevitably have soon borne its good fruits, if not for this beautiful blossom would have been cut short by the devastating coup of the “savior of society” Bonaparte. - It is precisely one of Caesarism's fates that the grass withers wherever he sets his feet. From this desert of reaction the seed fled to the only remaining republican existence, on Swiss soil, where it gradually took deep roots in the healthy life of the people. If Caesarism is dying off and a new wave of spring is sweeping through the peoples, the seed that has been sown will also sprout out of the ground everywhere as real seeds and the idea of direct legislation by the people, which has been germinating for a long time, will take on practical form as a form of government.
It is understood by se