lbst that direct legislation cannot be exercised in larger states in the same way as before
in the public square in Athens, in the oak groves of ancient Germania and still today in the rural cantons of Switzerland. The essence, i.e. h. Participation in the making of legislation must continue, only the form in which participation is carried out must disappear, must become completely different, because the circumstances have also become different and greater, which no longer allow the entire people to gather at one point for deliberation. This century, however, with its great inventions, has prepared and made pure democracy possible on a large scale, by almost eliminating long distances, so that a large body of people is connected by steam and telegraphy in such a way that the expressions and twitches of the individual members are immediately felt everywhere and become conscious. After all, the old, venerable form has to be abandoned because it is too narrow.
The majority of the rural community, i.e. the open vote, since everyone can write, must be seen through the secret vote in the communities using the ballot box, which is open for several hours on voting Sunday, so that every citizen can throw in his or her written ballot paper at the time that suits him. This cuts off the thread of life from the influence of capital and the undue demands of employers, which all too often cloud open voices. With the secret vote, the worker will be able to express his will more freely than if he has to fear, as is all too often the case with open voting, that he would have to atone for the free expression of his political convictions through social disadvantages (deprivation of work, etc.).
Since everyone can read, the consultation at the regional community will always be replaced by the printed explanations of the Geseyes proposals, by discussion in the newspapers and by free meetings if the importance of the Geseyes proposals causes such discussions.
The application in the rural cantons is expressed in larger state associations through a differently organized popular initiative (the people's right to make proposals); This consists in the fact that a fraction of the people determined by the constitution (around 1210 to 1220) makes a proposal, can put their request into law through a committee elected for this purpose and finally bring it to a referendum.
Direct legislation by the people therefore consists of two elements: a stimulating and a deciding one, 1) the people's right to make proposals, also known as a popular initiative,
2) from the popular vote on the Geseke, also called a referendum.
Between the two, the council functions as a regular organ, which is no longer a decision-making body, but only a decision-making body
9
gender, d. h. is a mere advisor whose advice may or may not be followed.
The Rath is thus caught between two fires, which will keep him constantly warm.
If the council proposes bad laws (if it commits crimes), they are rejected by the people (referendum).
If the council does not want to propose good laws (if it commits literary sins), the popular initiative comes and makes its suggestions.
In the canton of Zurich, for example, the popular initiative can express itself in two ways:
1. If the 13th part of the people (in Zurich 5,000 initiators out of 65,000 eligible voters) makes a proposal, it must be put to the referendum.
2. If an individual makes a proposal that is approved by 123 of the council, it must also be voted on by the people. Therefore, in the canton of Zurich there are 1) 5000 initiators, 2) An individual that is approved by 123 of the members of the canton council,
3) The cantonal council itself (consisting of around 220 members),
all three have equal rights to submit proposals to the people for a vote; only the council is the usual organ; The other two organs are the extraordinary ones, which only come into action when the ordinary one becomes lame.
For better understanding, we now follow the articles on the initiative and referendum from the Zurich Constitution, which begins with the following words:
“The people of the canton of Zurich give themselves by their strength
Right to self-determination "following constitution":
III. Legislation and popular representation
Article 28.
“The people exercise the legislative power with the participation of the Kan
“tonsrathes out.
A. The people's right to make proposals.
Article 29.
“The right of those entitled to propose (initiative) includes the “request for the enactment, repeal or amendment of a law or a decision that does not constitutionally fall exclusively within the authority of the cantonal council. Such