As the plant grows in the dark vault towards the cellar hole towards the sunlight, the working world of Europe also strives from the dull monarchy to the bright democracy. In freedom, the people will instinctively feel the right path to social salvation, precisely because they experience the suffering every day, which also gives them the necessary incentive to learn the cause and remedy of the distress.
In the true people's state, where direct legislation has given it the tools for permanent movement and the path to eternal peaceful revolution lies open before it, it will create new forms and laws not according to preconceived social theories, but according to the needs that make themselves felt in practice, and it will assert its will, as in Switzerland, with the pencil and no longer with the firearm, through bloody revolution, as in the despotic state.
The fear that the ideal achievements of humanity are less nurtured and promoted in the social democratic state than in monarchical or representative forms of government is a vain one; Because history proves that the freer a people is, the more willing they are to make sacrifices for educational purposes, because they realize that it is not spirit-killing, sterile faith, but only spirit-elevating, fertilizing science that can redeem the world. Direct legislation by the people is the most favorable form of government for promoting popular education, because everyone has an interest in their fellow human beings, who also have something to say about the law, casting their voice consciously, and above all the so-called Educated people, to whom direct legislation by the people seems like a modern invasion of the barbarians, a downfall of all culture, have the greatest interest and are willing to lend a hand to ensure that the masses are educated free of charge and as well as possible and that higher educational institutions are accessible to everyone who is qualified. Incidentally, direct legislation in and of itself is a powerful means of education because the people are stimulated by their most immediate interest to obtain instruction so that they are not still influenced by the so-called. higher education and legal subtleties are duped and exploited. Strangely enough, these so-called educated people, who consider direct legislation to be incapable of cultivating the ideal goods of humanity and therefore describe it as a step backwards, cannot sufficiently admire the ancient Greeks as the main bearers of the civilization of antiquity and probably do not think about the fact that it was precisely the most advanced of all Greeks, the Athenians, who supported direct legislation by the people, i.e. h. had its free citizens and that it was precisely this form of government that contributed most significantly to the development of the Attic spirit; Because with the suppression of this form of government, with foreign rule, the great spirits also disappeared. The ancient Germanic tribes also had direct legislation by the people in a similar organization to that which was preserved for many centuries in the small rural community cantons of Switzerland. The Germanic tribes paid homage to the basic principle of the state: every free man should be a warden, a soldier and a judge.
Strangely enough, the geseyes, war and right. knowledgeable Romans subjugated all peoples of the old world, except this Germanic people, whose state was so fragmented; Why? Precisely because popular organization, popular militia and popular courts had become flesh and blood in him and had produced men whose primal strength destroyed Rome's almighty power. Unfortunately, over the course of time, the Germans became so simple as to prefer the Roman Trinity (God the Father, Son and Holy Spirit) to the Germanic Trinity (Governor, Wehrmann and Judge in one person), and they will be pinched with red-hot tongs by priests and Caesars until the ancient Germanic state institutions remain intact; People's legislation, people's militia and people's court back on the bushel
★
6
put. The old democracy, which was torn from the people by monarchical ignorance and priests' beliefs, must be reconquered through reason and science and developed in keeping with the times. Everyone must become a legislator, a soldier and a judge again; He must exercise these rights and obligations temporarily and in his own person. Here, no division of labor, no transfer to others is possible without falling into servitude. If the people give up the right to make final decisions about laws, if they leave this duty to a single person or only a few, they will soon take the right to make the laws only for themselves and against the common good. The people leaves the defense of their rights and their fatherland exclusively to a number