. But the legislators of the representative state, elected by the people, are also unable to make good laws for the working classes, although they are able to enact very excellent ones for the bourgeois class; Why? Because experience has shown that the representative bodies consist in their majority of capitalists and their creatures, bourgeois hostile to social progress, and just as the slave owner is by nature incapable of ever making laws in the interests of his slaves, so the capitalist representative is also incapable of ever passing laws in the interests of the workers. Representative democracy, even though it is relatively much a better form of government than monarchy or aristocracy, is therefore not the political form in which the working world can develop and social questions can be solved. It would perhaps be better if the workers and especially the farmers only elected the most intelligent of their class to the council, but unfortunately the experience of all countries shows that this only happens in exceptional cases. As a rule, the people only elect members of the so-called higher classes, because it has the pernicious prejudice, which dates back to monarchical times, that only the intelligentsia produce good laws and that only well-study people are needed for this, while in the creation of laws, on the contrary, interest is decisive. In addition, daily allowances and rice compensation are systematically set so low that it is economically impossible for a member of the working class to act as a representative.
The experience of democracy also teaches that the people are far more likely to make mistakes and are far more easily seduced when it comes to people (council elections) than when it comes to judging things (e.g. votes on laws), for the simple reason that the heart and soul of a person are infinitely more difficult to examine than the core of a thing, i.e. h. meaning and spirit of a law; because it is far easier to judge whether a law is made in the interests of the working masses than if a councilor will speak and vote in the interests of the people.
Thus, the touchstone with which one can distinguish true gold from false gold would be the following: In the true, pure democracy or people's republic, the people are concerned not only with the people (council elections), but also and above all with the things (laws). In the false, representative democracy or bourgeois republic, the people are only allowed to concern themselves with the people (council elections) who then make things (laws) according to their own discretion, advantage and prejudice.
The
4
Bourgeois democrats want only them to govern the people for the benefit of a few. The Social Democrats want the people to govern themselves for the benefit of all, by taking the legislation into their own hands, taking care of themselves and no longer worrying, i.e. applying self-help on the most unlimited scale, including in the political sphere.
World history proves abundantly that vision is only the written interest of the legislator; To put it more prosaically, one can say that the spirit of the law lies in the belly of the lawmaker; The quintessence of the laws is determined by the money bag of the legislators. This is all the more true when it concerns not an individual but a whole class, not individuals but class rule. The exploiting class has never emancipated the exploited, or voluntarily passed laws favorable to the latter. Only when the exploited class became masters in the state and took legislation into their own hands was the Gesek in their, i.e. h. made to the more general interest; Only then could she develop in accordance with her social needs. But what is true of the third class, the bourgeois, is all the more true when it concerns the working class, the entire people. Like the chemical germ, i.e. h. the inner drive of a plant to flourish physical peculiarities, i.e. h. While external conditions, such as favorable soil and climate, are required, the internal, so to speak chemical drives of society, the social ideas, also need a peculiar, physical form of government in order to develop naturally and to germinate in practical life, i.e. kh favorable å u = external conditions and these are precisely the social democratic laws, which can never be made by princes or priests (who already have heaven here), but only by the working masses who long for such a social transformation, a humane existence here below.
No Savior will ever redeem the people; they must redeem themselves. Hence the general urge of the peoples of Europe for emancipation; How