It is only too well known from experience what great advantages it derives from a form of government that is favorable to it; knows only too well that as long as the working masses allow themselves to be led politically without will and have nothing direct to say about legislation, i.e. h. does not organize the form of government according to their interests, the interests of the work, socialism, even the most radical, is a vague nonsense because it lacks the political support for its social leverage with which it can unhinge the old society with its mass poverty and individual wealth. Social reform is doomed to remain in a state of theory as long as it has not found the right means to see it in practice and this means can be no other than to create a political reform, a form of government, in which the law is made by all citizens and no longer just by a few privileged ones.
France's workers are from the so-called Napoleon's imperial democracy has been thoroughly healed, they want to make the social democratic ne public. The workers of Northern Germany have defeated imperial socialism, the Junker dictatorship, etc. Swiss (who, according to his unnatural, Mannheim-like hobbies, also the working class
2318
catalog)
to after-politics and after-socialism) are so fed up that they turn away from this seducer of the youth and the people with disgust and go with all their baggage to the camp of the International Workers' Association. pass over, where the pannier of the right to self-determination, of the socially democratic form of government, of the European Federal Republic blows, around which the workers of southern Germany, Destreich, Italy and Spain are beginning to gather in ever greater numbers.
But how should this social democratic state be organized? That is the big question, so important for the worker. The International Workers' Confederation should be completely clear and agreed on what kind of republic it wants, so that when a revolution breaks out, the working masses everywhere know what to do.
The political movement in Switzerland, mainly in the canton of Zurich in the last two years, is probably just a symptom, a prelude to a great, profound movement that is taking place in European politics. The bourgeois republic or representative democracy is in the process of dying out in Switzerland, because it has been found too easy to fight against the pernicious influences, the Jesuitism of big capital, so to speak, it has neither the strength nor the will to solve the social question, and from now on pure democracy appears on the scene, where the people take a direct part in the legislation and will therefore shape it according to their social needs.
The idea of ​​direct legislation by the people must be spread more and more among the working masses of Europe so that it becomes second nature during the next monarchical flaying and creates political institutions on a large scale throughout Europe similar to those that already exist on a small scale in Switzerland.
The representative state is the same everywhere. The workers of Paris know only too well from the June days of 1848 that these bourgeois representatives want to solve the social question with grapeshot, and more recently the miners in Belgium have learned that their constitutionalists know no other means than powder and lead; and even in the representative democracy of Zurich there had been harsh exceptional laws against the workers' coalition for more than 20 years. the social democratic press. As long as the workers fabricate the state laws through their exploiters and allow them to be dictated to them, the laws will also be unfavorable for the workers and only favorable for the masters; or since when has a monarch made laws against his dynasty in the interests of the people? First comes He, his interest, his ruling house and the tools for maintaining the state exploitation machine, and only when everyone has enough of these, is the exploited people thought of and, as a rule, they are offered stones instead of bread. (There are, of course, so-called Christian monarchs who, like the good-natured riders, stroke the neck of the creature that is panting under their burden, but that the one who has been ridden to shame and is heavily burdened is the most benefited by this
It would be helpful if the gentleman and all his entourage got out of the saddle - the upper one doesn't think of that from afar - until the lower one throws him off).
Likewise, an aristocracy can make excellent laws for itself but not for the people, or has the cleverest of all aristocracies, that of England, ever done anything in the interests of the workers? No, if it has held up until now, it is only because it has not developed the stubbornness to unduly resist the absolutely necessary reforms