represent capital as labor, and therefore laws are generally made at the expense of the working masses in favor of capital;
that only through direct participation in legislation can the political-social consciousness penetrate the people, which is the first prerequisite for solving social questions;
decides:
It is a main task of the working classes to work towards the realization of the social-democratic republic in which legislation is exercised directly by the people. Everything for the people and everything through the people!
Direct legislation by the people
.frontmatter_header {
font-size:1.2em;
font-weight:bold
;}
.frontmatter_body {
font-size:1em;
}
About this Book - From Google
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library
shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project to make
the world's books discoverable online. It has survived long enough for the
copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain
book is one that was never subject to copyright or whose legal copyright term
has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country
country. Public domain books are our gateways to the past, representing a
wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover.
Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume may appear
in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the publisher to a
library and finally to you.
Google Book Search has digitized millions of physical books and made them
available online at the Google Books website. The digitization at
the most basic level is based on page images of the
physical books. To make this book available as an ePub formatted file we have
taken those page images and extracted the text using Optical Character
Recognition (or OCR for short) technology. The extraction of text from page
images is a difficult engineering task. Smudges on the physical books' pages,
Fancy fonts, old fonts, torn pages, etc. can all lead to errors in the
extracted text. Imperfect OCR is only the first challenge in the ultimate goal
of moving from collections of page images to extracted-text based books. Our
computer algorithms also have to automatically determine the structure of the
book (what are the headers and footers, where images are placed, whether text
is verse or prose, and so forth). Getting this right allows us to render the
book in a way that follows the format of the original book.
Despite our best efforts you may see spelling mistakes, garbage characters,
extraneous images, or missing pages in this book. Based on our estimates, these
Errors should not prevent you from enjoying the content of the book. The
technical challenges of automatically constructing a perfect book are daunting,
but we continue to make enhancements to our OCR and book structure extraction
technologies.
We hope you'll enjoy these books as much as we do.
Usage guidelines
Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain
materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong
to the public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this
work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we
have taken steps to prevent abuse by commercial parties, including
placing technical restrictions on automated querying.
We also ask that you:
Make non-commercial use of the files: We designed Google Book
Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files
for personal, non-commercial purposes.
Refrain from automated querying: Do not send automated queries
of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on
machine translation, optical character recognition or other areas
where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact
us. We encourage the use of public domain materials for these purposes
and may be able to help.
Maintain attribution: The Google "watermark" you see on
each file is essential for informing people about this project and
helping them find additional materials through Google Book Search.
Please do not remove it.
Keep it legal: Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible
for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Don't assume that
just because we believe a book is in the public domain for users
the United States, that the work is also in the public domain
users in other countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies
from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any
specific use of any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume
that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used
in any manner anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability
can be quite severe.
About Google Book Search
Google's mission is to organize the world's information and