Desires can take the form of simple ones
“Suggestion or the elaborated draft must be made and must be justified in one case as well as in the other.
"If an individual or an authority makes such a request, which is supported by a third of the members of the cantonal council, the same must be decided by the people. The applicant or the representative of the authority making the request has the right to provide personal justification in the bosom of the cantonal council, insofar as 25 members of the cantonal council support the request for personal justification.
"Similarly, the referendum must be initiated if 5,000 eligible voters or a number of community meetings at which at least 5,000 eligible voters voted for it make such a request, insofar as the cantonal council does not comply with it. A proposal submitted in a timely manner should be submitted to the people for a decision at the latest in the second regular referendum.
“The suggestion, or the draft, must always be submitted to the cantonal council for review before the vote.
“In the event that a draft proposal based on the popular initiative is voted on, the cantonal council can, in addition to its report, also present a modified draft to the people for decision.
B. Referendum.
Article 30.
"Twice a year, in spring and autumn, the people vote on the legislative acts of the cantonal council (referendum). In urgent cases, the cantonal council can order an extraordinary vote.
“The referendum is subject to:
"1) all constitutional amendments, laws and concordats;
"2) those resolutions of the cantonal council which it does not
“is authorized to take final decisions (see Article 31);
"3) Conclusions that the cantonal council made on its own initiative
“I want to bring a mood.
"When presenting a law or resolution, the cantonal council is entitled, in addition to the vote on the whole, to exceptionally also order a vote on individual points.
"Voting takes place in the communities using the ballot box. "Participation in this is a general civic duty.
“The referendum can only be affirmative or negative.
“In this case, the absolute majority of the affirmative and negative decides
“No voices.
“The cantonal council is not authorized to see laws or resolutions provisionally in force before the vote.
“All proposals that are put to the referendum must be thirty at the latest
“To be published days before the same and handed over to those entitled to vote
C. Cantonal Council.
Article 31.
“The cantonal council has the following:
1. deliberation and decision-making on all matters
“be subject to the referendum;
2.
3.
4. monitoring of the entire state administration and the administration of justice
"5. the final decision on new one-off expenses for a specific purpose, which do not exceed the amount of 250,000 francs, as well as on new annual recurring expenses up to the amount of 20,000 francs;
10
6. Determination of the annual estimate of income and expenditure of the state budget in accordance with existing laws and resolutions.
“7. the audit of the state accounts...''
We do not want to claim that the above articles are absolutely correct in all parts and are, so to speak, set up as an infallible scheme. The diversity of individual views will reveal deficiencies here and there. These articles alone deserve all attention as a first serious attempt insofar as they are a collective work, a new form of government that emerged from the deliberations and votes of an entire people, in which the collective can develop unhindered according to its progressive needs.
We are convinced that direct legislation by the people through the institutions of popular initiative and popular vote on laws can and must be introduced in the largest states, and that social questions cannot be solved without these political institutions.
The Zurich Section therefore considers itself both obliged and entitled to bring the idea of direct legislation by the people to the forum of the International Workers' Confederation, in the conviction that this idea, like the ever-memorable Declaration of Human Rights, will make its way around the world as the most effective means of realizing these social rights.
She therefore submits the following request:
12
The Congress of the International Workers' Confederation
Considering:
in Basel.
that the law is the written judgment of the legislator;
that the interest of the community as a whole naturally prevails when making laws. should be giving;
that experience shows that representative bodies are more