Skip to main content





Sign up for free
Log in
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Financing the war"
See other formats
unancing  the  War


A.  Barton  Hepburn


UC-NRLF


$B  b3S  n5


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive

in  2008  with  funding  from

IVIicrosoft  Corporation


http://www.archive.org/details/financingwarOOhepbrich


Financing  the  War


Financing  the  War


by
A.  Barton  Hepburn

of  The  Chase  National  Bank
of  the  City  of  New  York


A  Lecture

Delivered  at  Princeton  University,  January  11,  1918,
on  the  Spencer  Trask  Foundation


Princeton  University  Press
Princeton,  N.  J.


Copyright,  1918,  by
Princeton  University  Press

Publifihed  February,  1918
Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America


5^


FINANCING  THE  WAR

The  subject  assigned  me  is  so  comprehensive  that  I
hardly  know  the  best  avenue  of  approach.  It  seemed  to
me  that  it  vrould  be  agreeable  to  you,  as  students,  to  have
recalled  the  principles  that  should  govern,  in  financing  a
great  war,  followed  by  a  practical,  though  very  general,
application  to  present  conditions.  The  Government  de-
fends us  from  foreign  enemies,  domestic  sedition,  the  in-
fringement of  personal  and  property  rights,  provides
instrumentalities  for  the  determination  and  enforcement
of  our  rights  through  courts  and  constabulary  and  mili-
tary and  naval  force  if  need  be.  Every  law  has  an  un-
seen bayonet  behind  it  to  secure  its  enforcement.  In
order  that  the  Government  may  have  the  means  of  ac-
complishing all  this  it  reaches  down  into  our  pockets  and
takes  what  funds  it  may  require  in  the  form  of  taxation ;
it  reaches  into  the  family  circle  and  takes,  by  voluntary
action  or  conscription,  what  man-power  it  may  need.
The  state  is  the  collective  individual,  the  combined
power,  energy,  brain,  heart,  conscience  that  results  from
each  individual  yielding  his  support  and  loyalty  to  the
whole.  Thus  the  individual,  protected  by  the  whole,  has
the  right  to  life,  liberty  and  pursuit  of  happiness,  with
the  limitation  that  he  must  not  infringe  the  similar  right
possessed  by  others.  We  are  apt  to  regard  the  Govern-
ment as  a  benefactor  and  clamor  for  whatever  assistance
we  fancy  we  need,  forgetting  that  whatever  the  Govern-
ment gives  to  one  it  must  first  take  from  others.  Now  in
the  presence  of  this  grave  conflict,  it  is  the  Government
that  needs,  sorely  needs  support  and  our  loyalty  and


S44206


6  A.  BARTON  HEPBURN

patriotism  are  subject  to  a  trying  ordeal,  bravely  and
joyfully  borne,  however.

The  first  response  is  from  the  man-power  of  the  coun-
try. Our  patriotic  young  men,  in  the  morning  of  life,
selected  because  of  their  personal  prowess  and  patriotic
devotion,  going  to  the  front  to  find  perhaps  a  soldier's
grave  or  a  sailor's  rest  in  the  grim  old  ocean  or  to  return
broken  and  maimed  to  carry  the  red  badge  of  sacrifice
throughout  their  remaining  years.  This  typifies  the
highest  level  of  patriotism,  the  highest  plane  of  devotion
to  one's  coimtry.  The  country  calls  upon  the  treasures
of  youth — which  are  strength,  courage,  brain  and  brawn
— and  calls  upon  the  equally  important  treasures  of
thrift,  the  accumulation  of  labor  and  adventure.  We
are  to  consider  the  less  heroic  but  none  the  less  import-
ant financial  aspect  of  the  war.

Money;  How  Raised  in  the  Past

Money  is  the  medium  of  exchange  that  supplies  the
Government's  material  needs.  How  shall  it  be  raised?
Perhaps  a  glimpse  at  the  past  may  be  helpful.  In  1714
the  national  debt  of  all  civilized  nations  totaled  $1,500,-
000,000.  A  little  more  than  a  century  later,  in  1820,  it
was  $7,750,000,000.  The  Napoleonic  wars,  our  Civil
War,  and  other  wars  rapidly  increased  the  amount  un-
til in  1882  it  approximated  $27,000,000,000.  H.  C.
Adams  in  1887  wrote,  "The  civilized  governments  of  the
present  day  are  straining  under  a  burden  of  $27,000,-
000,000.  This  sum,  which  does  not  include  local  indebt-
edness of  any  sort,  constitutes  a  mortgage  of  $722  for
each  square  mile  over  which  the  burdened  governments
extend  their  jurisdiction  .  .  ."  In  earlier  years  sover-
eigns felt  it  their  duty  to  provide  a  war  chest  for  emer-


FINANCING  THE  WAR  7

gency  use  in  self-defense  and  quite  as  often,  perhaps,  to
enable  them  to  strike  at  the  psychological  moment  in
some  aggressive  campaign.  They  raised  funds  by  plun-
dering enemies,  confiscating  property  of  enemies  or
rivals  and  by  levies  upon  individuals,  and  forced  loans.
There  was  no  general  taxation  systematically  levied.
With  the  increase  of  wealth,  with  the  disappearance  of
the  nomadic  tendencies  of  people,  which  naturally  re-
sulted from  the  growing  stability  of  government  and  the
protection  of  property  and  its  enjoyment,  the  means  of
raising  money  for  the  support  of  governments  became
more  refined.  Precautionary  funds  were  no  longer  se-
cured in  advance  and  by  a  system  of  borrowing  and
funding,  present  payment  for  war  expenditure  was  post-
poned and  the  burden  transferred  to  the  future.

Growing  Government  Debt

A  study  of  the  income  and  disbursement  accounts  of
the  nations  and  their  constantly  growing  debts  shows
that  they  have  been  capitalizing  current  expenses.  They
have  not  paid  their  way.  They  have  been  borrowing
money  to  live  upon.  I  am  speaking  of  the  ordinary
cost  of  government  and  not  including  extraordinary  ex-
pense as,  for  instance,  financing  a  war.  This  is  true  of
national  governments  and,  as  to  municipal  governments,
the  debt  increase  is  appalling.  The  debt  of  France  was
reduced  very  little  from  the  time  of  the  Franco-Prussian
War,  1870,  to  the  beginning  of  the  present  war,  1914.
The  debt  of  England  remained  about  stationary  for  a
generation  prior  to  the  Boer  War  and,  of  course,  was
increased  as  a  result  of  that  war.  Our  own  government
is  an  exception  to  the  general  rule.  Our  government  has
been  conducted  upon  the  principle  of  having  a  surplus


\


8  A.  BARTON  HEPBURN

of  income  over  expenditure  and  debt  reduction  is  the
general  policy  (although  the  war  with  Spain  and  the
construction  of  the  Panama  Canal  and  other  causes  have
interfered  with  the  policy  in  recent  years).

Credit

It  is  a  common  saying  that  you  can  have  nothing  in
the  line  of  credit  better  than  the  credit  of  the  govern-
ment under  which  you  live.  Hence,  government  obli-
gations have  ranked  high,  and  the  ease  with  which  loans
could  be  floated  has  been  too  tempting  for  politicians
to  withstand.  To  confront  the  electorate  with  severe
taxes  might  involve  political  disaster;  to  borrow  and
devolve  payment  upon  posterity  lost  no  votes.  This,  I
think,  largely  accounts  for  the  tremendous  increase  in
national  as  well  as  municipal  debts.  However,  the
world  is  growing  richer  and  the  public  demands  in-
creased indulgence.  We  have  reached  a  point,  since  this
war  began,  in  some  nations,  where  private  and  corpo-
rate credit  are  better  than  that  of  the  government.

Expense  That  May  Properly  he  Raised  by  Bond  Sales

There  are  economists  who  maintain  that  all  govern-
ment expenses  should  be  met  by  current  taxes,  that  it  is
wrong  to  mortgage  the  future  and  impose  bond  burdens
upon  posterity.  This  doctrine  literally  applied  would
strangle  any  government  overtaken  by  emergency.
Taxation  is  a  slow  process  of  realizing  money.  We  pay
taxes  once  a  year,  except  as  to  internal  revenue  taxes,
represented  by  stamps,  which  are  paid  at  the  time  of
each  transaction,  and  customs  taxes  which  follow  each
importation.  Posterity  enjoys  the  liberty  won  in  our
War  for  Independence  and  was  justly  asked  to  bear


FINANCING  THE  WAR  9

a  portion  of  the  expense.  There  are  wars  for  a  princi-
ple hke  the  present  war  which  may  be  succinctly  char-
acterized as  Democracy  vs.  Autocracy.  Future  gener-
ations are  surely  interested  in  the  result.  The  Panama
Canal  will  be  used  by  posterity  and  should  in  part  be
paid  for  by  posterity.  Where  a  government,  municipal
or  otherwise,  builds  a  road,  bonds  issued  to  raise  funds
for  the  work  should  not  run  longer  than  the  road  will
last.  The  people  who  use  the  road  should  pay  for  it ;  by
the  same  principle  the  people  who  are  interested  in  a  war
fought  for  principle  may  be  required  to  bear  in  part  its
expense  by  the  flotation  of  bonds  for  posterity  to  pay.
The  people  who  endure  the  hardships,  the  pains,  the  loss
of  life  may  well  pass  on  to  the  future  some  of  the  finan-
cial burdens.

For  two  and  one  half  years  our  Government  watched
the  conflict  without  any  move  toward  preparedness,
hoping  the  storm  would  pass  us  by.  Then  they  under-
took under  great  pressure  to  increase  and  equip  the
Army  and  Navy  and  provide  what  material  things  they
and  their  Allies  needed  to  win  the  war.  Manifestly,  tax-
ation and  credit  should  both  be  asked  to  supply  such  im-
portunate demands,  but  in  what  proportion?  The  dis-
cussion of  this  question  by  Congress  delayed  legislation
for  many  months.  The  expense  of  the  war  must  be  paid
from  the  savings  of  the  people ;  hence  the  importance  of
knowing  the  amount  of  such  savings.  The  ability  of
people  to  pay  taxes  or  to  lend  money  to  the  government
rests  upon  the  same  source;  it  depends  upon  industrial
activity  and  prosperity.  Taxation  that  would  discour-
age business,  either  in  the  manner  of  its  imposition  or  the
amount,  would  defeat  its  own  ends,  would  fail  to  fill  the
Treasury ;  it  would  also  impair  the  power  of  the  public
to  subscribe  for  bonds.


10  A.  BARTON  HEPBURN

What  is  the  Increment  of  the  Nation?

The  resource,  then,  from  which  the  Government  must
realize  its  needs  is  the  net  increment  of  the  people,  the
balance  left  over  after  the  expense  of  living  is  taken
from  the  net  profits  of  business — ^the  increment.  It  be-
comes important,  and  should  be  the  first  solicitude  of  the
Government,  to  inquire  what  may  be  the  amount  avail-
able for  new  investment.  The  Government  sought  to
go  to  the  limit  in  the  amount  of  taxation  imposed,  stop-
ping just  short  of  impairing  business  prosperity.  In
this  purpose  I  think  they  were  right;  but  just  what  the
practical  working  of  their  two  revenue  laws  may  be  re-
mains to  be  seen.

The  ease  with  which  a  government  can  place  loans  and
the  rates  of  interest  they  will  have  to  pay  depends  upon
the  government's  credit.  Nothing  improves  govern-
ment credit  more  than  to  inaugurate  good  stiff  taxation
to  supplement  loans.  Such  taxation  has  a  buoyant  ef-
fect upon  credit ;  it  strengthens  a  bond  issue  in  the  same
general  way  that  a  sinking  fund  does,  for  it  evidences
strongly  the  government's  purpose  to  pay.

Past  Experience

We  have  before  us  the  experience  in  financing  the
War  of  1812  and  also  the  Civil  War  of  1861.  In  both
instances  the  bond  issues  suffered  in  the  popular  price
they  commanded  by  the  failure  to  raise  sufficient  funds
by  coincident  taxation.  Had  good,  wholesome  effective
measures  of  taxation  been  employed  in  1861  the  amount
of  Treasury  notes  required  would  have  been  lessened
and  the  alleged  necessity  for  making  such  notes  (green-
backs) legal  tender  would  not  have  arisen.  During  the
Civil  War  bonds  were  issued  the  proceeds  of  which  were


FINANCING  THE  WAR  11

$2,565,000,000.  The  bonds  were  paid  for  at  par  in
Treasury  notes,  but  these  notes  were  at  a  discount.
Figured  on  a  gold  basis  the  Government  reahzed  for
such  loans  only  $1,705,000,000,  a  shrinkage  of  $860,-
000,000,  nearly  33  1/3  per  cent.  All  our  government
bonds,  by  process  of  refunding  or  otherwise,  have  been
paid  in  gold  or  its  equivalent  and  the  faith  of  the  Gov-
ernment is  pledged  to  pay  all  of  its  bonds,  principal  and
interest,  in  gold.  Vigorous  taxation  might  have  saved
the  Government  that  $860,000,000  but  in  the  early  six-
ties there  was  great  division  of  sentiment  and  political
expediency  doubtless  had  much  influence.  In  the  pres-
ent war  our  Government  has  avoided  the  mistakes  of
1812  and  1861.  May  they  not  have  gone  too  far  in  the
opposite  direction  and  have  imposed  too  drastic  taxa-
tion?

Income  tax  returns  are  as  yet  incomplete  and  we  lack
authentic  data  from  which  to  estimate  the  increment  of
the  nation.  In  England  the  income  tax  returns  are  very
complete  and  economists  estimate  her  increment  prior
to  the  present  war,  that  is,  the  annual  amoimt  of  money
available  for  new  enterprise,  additional  investment,  at
approximately  $2,000,000,000.  The  Chancellor  of  the
Exchequer  stated  in  Parliament,  in  the  early  stages  of
the  war,  that  the  United  States  was  indebted  to  England
in  the  sum  of  $5,000,000,000  and  to  the  continent  of
Europe  to  the  amount  of  $1,000,000,000.  Again,  the
British  income  tax  gave  data  as  to  the  amount  of  Eng-
lish investments  in  America  or,  in  other  words,  our  in-
debtedness to  England,  which  enabled  the  Chancellor,
having  access  to  this  data,  to  make  a  very  close  estimate.
All  the  world  owed  England.  She  had  54  per  cent  of  the
carrying  trade  of  the  ocean;  her  insurance  companies


12  A.  BARTON  HEPBURN

are  the  largest  undei-writers  the  world  over ;  44  per  cent
of  the  fire  underwriting  in  this  country  was  done  by  for-
eign companies.  As  the  Clearing  House  of  commerce
and  the  Banker  of  the  world  she  drew  tribute  and  inter-
est from  all  quarters.  The  United  States  was  a  debtor
nation  and,  as  we  have  seen,  was  paying  interest  on  an
estimated  $6,000,000,000  to  Europe.  England  is  an  old
country  and  has  comparatively  few  latent  resources.  On
the  other  hand,  the  latent  resources  of  the  United  States
were  constantly  being  developed  and  by  so  doing  new
wealth,  not  theretofore  existing,  was  constantly  coming
into  use.

Sir  George  Paish,  one  of  the  Editors  of  the  London
Statist,  a  British  Treasury  official  and  one  of  the  world's
leading  economists,  was  of  the  opinion  that,  all  things
considered,  the  net  incomes  of  the  United  States  and
England  were  just  about  equal  in  amount.  Sir  George
Paish  estimated  the  net  increment  of  the  United  States
at  the  beginning  of  the  war  at  $2,000,000,000  annually.
The  enormous  trade  balances  in  our  favor,  for  these
three  years  of  war,  have  enabled  us  to  become  a  creditor
nation  by  buying  back  our  obligations  owned  abroad,  to
a  very  large  extent,  and  by  offsetting  the  balance  by
making  loans  abroad.  The  insistent  demand  for  food,
clothing,  war  material  at  constantly  advancing  prices
gave  our  people  large  profits,  tilted  the  international
trade  balance  largely  in  our  favor  and  increased  the  net
income  of  the  nation.  War  profits  were  large,  very  large
and  in  some  instances  are  still  large.  A  steel  company
which  takes  its  ore  from  the  ground  and  sells  steel  at  $60
per  ton  and  the  finished  steel  products  made  therefrom,
at  corresponding  prices,  must  realize  large  profits.  A
copper  company  that  produces  copper,  at  approximate-


FINANCING  THE  WAR  13

ly  normal  cost,  and  sells  the  same  at  prices  now  pre-
vailing must  realize  very  large  profits.  On  the  other
hand,  any  corporation  that  buys  steel  at  $60  per  ton,
copper  at  28  cents  per  pound  and  produces  goods  there-
from, must,  especially  in  view  of  the  largely  increased
cost  of  labor,  figure  very  closely  to  be  sure  of  any  profit.

Our  Agricultural  Department  estimates  the  value  of
our  cereal  crop  for  the  past  year  at  $21,000,000,000  as
against  $13,448,310,509  for  1916.  A  phenomenal  in-
crease truly,  but  do  not  adopt  the  popular  idea  that  that
large  increase  is  added  to  our  purchasing  power.  We
export  about  150,000,000  bushels  of  wheat  which,  paid
for  by  foreigners  at  $2.20  a  bushel,  adds  to  our  inter-
national trade  balance  $180,000,000  more  than  it  would,
at  $1  per  bushel,  which  is  about  the  normal  price.  Our
current  income,  our  investment  increment  is  increased
by  this  additional  sum  realized  from  the  foreigner.  All
the  wheat  crop  consumed  at  home  is  paid  for  by  our
own  people,  at  $2.20  per  bushel,  and  their  income  is
taxed  very  heavily  thereby.  The  farmer,  again  the  pro-
ducer of  raw  material,  prospers  wonderfully,  but  the
consumer's  burden  is  increased  in  the  same  proportion.
The  increased  price  involves  a  readjustment  among  our
own  people  as  to  the  amount  consumed  at  home  and
does  not  increase  the  purchasing  power  of  our  people,
as  a  whole,  one  penny.

I  have  in  mind  a  corporation  that,  in  1914,  made  a
contract  with  a  European  government  for  the  manufac-
ture of  a  very  large  nimiber  of  military  rifles.  It  took
nine  months  to  build  the  necessary  buildings,  quite  some
additional  time  to  install  dies  and  machinery.  The
price  of  labor,  steel,  and  other  articles  was  all  the  while
rapidly  advancing.    In  short,  this  corporation  lost  very


14  A.  BARTON  HEPBURN

heavily  on  what  looked  to  be,  at  the  time  it  was  made,  a
very  profitable  contract.  No  one  properly  gauged  the
abnormal  increase  in  prices.  Another  corporation  en-
tered into  a  similar  contract  for  the  manufacture  of  ex-
plosives. The  advance  in  the  cost  of  everything  forced
the  company  into  the  hands  of  a  receiver.  Representa-
tives of  the  foreign  government  called  upon  the  Receiver
and  asked  what  he  was  going  to  do  about  the  contract.
His  reply  was,  "Nothing;  the  cost  far  exceeds  the  prices
fixed  by  the  contract."  They  replied,  "We  quite  under-
stand the  situation.  Now  at  what  prices  can  you  finish
the  contract?"  They  waived  the  prices  fixed  and  agreed
upon  an  advance  giving  a  fair  compensation.  They
wanted  the  goods.  Another  big  munition  company
reached  a  financial  impasse  and  their  contracts  were
transferred  to  another  company  on  a  basis  that  insured
their  fulfillment.  No  one  was  at  fault,  except  they
lacked  the  prescience  to  properly  forecast  the  phenome-
nal increase  in  the  cost  of  everything.  These  new  ar-
rangements were  possible  only  because  the  warring  na-
tions were  so  much  in  need  of  the  goods  for  which  they
had  contracted.  I  mention  these  circumstances  to  show
how  far  wrong  the  public  impression  is  that  everyone
connected  with  the  manufacture  of  munitions  is  making
phenomenal  amounts  of  money.  I  mention  them  also
because  they  have  a  direct  bearing  upon  a  proper  esti-
mate of  the  investment  increment  of  our  people  as  a
whole,  the  increment  from  which  we  must  pay  taxes  and
buy  bonds  to  enable  the  Government  to  carry  on  the
war.

Our  Congressmen  talk  very  glibly  in  billions  and  are
very  positive  in  their  views  as  to  what  burdens  may,  with
prudence,  be  levied  upon  the  country's  industry.  I  think


FINANCING  THE  WAR  16

we  may  aid  the  Government  by  helping  to  reach  a
proper  estimate  of  the  country's  savings.  The  income
tax  returns  will,  in  future,  give  a  very  reliable  basis  for
such  an  estimate,  but  an  approximately  reliable  basis  is
needed  now  upon  which  to  predicate  taxation.  I  quite
agree  that  current  taxes  should  be  as  large  as  industry
will  bear  without  discouragement.  All  business  is  a
venture ;  there  may  be  varying  prospects  of  success,  but
sometimes  an  actual  loss  ensues.  If  one  takes  the  chance
of  a  loss  the  tax  gatherer  should  leave  a  fair  margin  of
profit  in  case  of  success ;  otherwise,  men  will  hesitate  and
business  be  curtailed.  This  war  can  not  be  won  unless
industry  is  kept  in  full  volume — ^volume  sufficient  at  all
times  to  supply  the  Government  with  the  goods  they  re-
quire. A  very  large  percentage  of  the  business  of  the
country  is,  at  the  present  time,  with  or  for  the  Govern-
ment and  that  percentage  will  increase.  Large  profits
made  upon  advancing  prices  always  have  a  correspond-
ing loss  when  the  tide  turns.  When  the  war  ends  and
prices  begin  to  recede  to  a  normal  level  much  of  the
profits  made  on  the  upturn  will  be  inevitably  wiped  out
and  safety  requires  that  fair  surplus  be  accumulated  to
meet  such  strain  in  order  to  prevent  business  mortality.
Mr.  A.  C.  Miller  was  made  a  member  of  the  Federal
Reserve  Board  at  Washington,  because,  in  addition  to
his  many  other  qualities,  he  was  an  economist  of  stand-
ing and  repute.  In  a  recent  address  at  Philadelphia  he
estimated  the  "surplus  income  or  potential  savings  of
the  country  for  1917"  at  from  twelve  to  fifteen  billions
of  dollars.  I  wrote  asking  for  the  data  upon  which  he
based  his  estimate.    I  quote  from  his  reply :

I  am  sending  you  this  brief  statement:

(1)  Estimates  made  in  this  office  of  the  total  gross  income


16  A.  BARTON  HEPBURN

of  the  nation  show  a  gross  income  of  thirty-one  billions  two
hundred  millions  of  dollars  for  the  year  1914,  and  a  gross  of
forty-nine  billions  and  seven  hundred  millions  of  dollars  for  the
year  1917 — in  other  words,  a  growth  for  the  period  of  the  war
of  over  eighteen  billions.

(2)  My  judgment  is  that  the  largest  part  of  this  increase
of  eighteen  billions  is  to  be  treated  as  an  accretion  to  the  money
incomes  of  those  classes  of  the  community  for  whom  it  is  not
offset  by  commensurate  increases  of  living  and  other  costs.  To
be  on  the  safe  side,  however,  I  estimated  that  a  deduction  of
one-third  from  the  eighteen  billions  might  properly  be  made
to  cover  increased  cost  of  living,  etc.,  and  to  account  for  any
variation  in  the  choice  of  price  levels  in  computing  the  totals
(the  larger  part  of  the  gain  in  pecuniary  income  of  the  nation
from  1915  to  1918  being  due  to  the  rapid  and  general  advance
in  prices).  A  deduction  of  one- third  or  six  billions  leaves  us
with  an  addition  to  the  computed  surplus  or  potential  savings
fund  of  the  nation  of  approximately  twelve  billions.

(3)  Estimates  of  the  actual  savings  fund  of  the  country  in
1914  run  from  three  billions  to  six  billions.  I  have  thought  it
wise  to  use  the  former  of  these  figures  (though  I  believe  it  is
far  within  the  mark)  in  order  to  offset  any  excess  in  the  calcu-
lation of  the  proportion  of  the  eighteen  billion  dollars  increase
of  gross  income  from  1914  to  1918  to  be  credited  to  the  surplus
income  or  potential  savings  fund  account.  [Note  his  estimate
for  $3,000,000,000  net  for  1914.]

The  value  of  my  figure  of  from  twelve  to  fifteen  billions  as
an  approximation  to  the  surplus  income  of  the  country  for  the
year  1917  depends:

(1)  on  the  validity  of  my  gross  figures  for  1914  and  1917;
and,

(2)  on  the  validity  of  my  inference,  or  it  would  perhaps  bet-
ter be  called  conjecture,  as  to  the  proportion  of  the  computed
increase  in  gross  income  from  1914  to  1918  to  be  credited  to  the
surplus  account,


FINANCING  THE  WAR  17

No  one  could  be  more  aware  of  how  widely  opinions  might
differ  as  to  the  validity  of  such  a  process  of  inference  than  I,
but  I  felt  that  unless  someone  was  willing  to  run  the  risk  of
drawing  such  an  inference  or  making  such  a  conjecture  based
upon  some  of  the  facts,  we  should  be  groping  and  floundering
in  talking  about  the  financing  of  the  war.  I  was  willing  to
take  the  risk  in  the  hope  that  it  would  at  least  serve  the  pur-
pose of  stirring  up  among  bankers,  economists  and  statisticians
some  more  thoroughgoing  consideration  of  this  all  important
question.

I  questioned  his  estimate  to  which  he  replied  as  fol-
lows:

You  say  you  can't  help  but  think  my  estimate  of  the  net  in-
come of  the  country  is  very,  very  large.  I  must  admit  that  the
figures  startled  me  when  the  computation  was  first  made,  but  I
believe  they  are  approximately  correct  if  too  weighty  a  meaning
is  not  given  to  the  term  "net  income.'*  I  thoroughly  agree  with
you  that  the  year  1917  is  not  only  exceptional  as  regards  pre-
ceding years,  but  will  also  be  exceptional  as  regards  the  year
immediately  to  follow.  I  would  not  myself,  therefore,  wish  to
draw  any  inferences  as  to  what  we  can  do  in  the  financing  of
the  war,  should  it  go  into  a  second  year,  from  the  figures  de-
duced for  our  gross  money  income  for  the  year  1917.  I  think
the  figures  indicate  rather  a  plenty  of  money,  than  a  plenty  of
the  goods  and  services  which  the  Government  will  need  for  the
prosecution  of  the  war.  Even  if  it  be  established,  as  I  think  it
can  be,  that  there  are  available  for  the  appropriation  of  the
Government  some  twelve  to  fifteen  billions  of  dollars,  or  say
from  thirty-five  to  forty-five  per  cent  of  the  total  gross  money
income  of  the  nation,  it  does  not  follow  that  the  Government
can  get  forty  per  cent  of  the  physical  product  of  the  country
or  the  control  of  a  commensurate  amount  of  the  productive  ca-
pacity— these  being  the  things  that  count  in  determining  what
the  Government's  economic  effective  will  be  in  the  prosecution
of  the  war.


18  A.  BARTON  HEPBURN

Mr.  Miller  is  a  very  able  man,  his  official  position
gives  him  a  point  of  vantage  in  investigating  this  ques-
tion and  his  opinions  are  entitled  to  great  weight.  He
thinks  his  estimate  is  "approximately  correct  if  too
weighty  a  meaning  is  not  given  to  the  term  'net  in-
come/ ''  Net  income  is  the  balance  which  a  man  may
use  for  any  purpose  that  pleases  him.  It  is  what  is  left
from  one's  receipts  after  deducting  all  cost,  including
the  cost  of  living.  Now  the  cost  of  living  may  be  eco-
nomical or  it  may  be  extravagant  and  right  there  is  the
test  of  the  present  situation.  In  my  opinion  such  a  large
net  income  could  result  only  from  severe  economy.
The  determination  of  this  question  with  proximate  cer-
tainty is  vital  to  the  proper  financing  of  the  war,  and  I
am  carrying  out  Mr.  Miller's  hope  of  "stirring  up
among  bankers,  economists  and  statisticians  some  more
thoroughgoing  consideration  of  this  all  important  ques-
tion" by  putting  it  up  to  you.  There  is  a  constant  edu-
cational influence  radiating  from  this  great  University
and  I  believe  the  best  service  Princeton  can  render  is  to
help  our  Government  to  master  the  economic  facts  un-
derlying this  war  and  properly  gauge  the  economic  in-
fluences involved  and  help  to  illuminate  the  relations
of  industry  and  capital  to  the  almost  superhuman  task
of  financing  the  needs  of  the  Treasury.

This  paper  is  in  the  nature  of  an  inquest  rather  than
an  argument  and  I  therefore  present  the  views  of  David
Friday,  whom  I  regard  as  one  of  our  ablest  economists.
Prof.  Friday  was  many  years  connected  with  the  Uni-
versity of  Michigan,  is  now  connected  with  New  York
University  and  is  a  member  of  the  firm,  Thompson  &
Black,  Financial  Accountants  and  Engineers.  He  has
therefore  studied  the  subject  from  a  practical  as  well  as


FINANCING  THE  WAR  19

scholastic  standpoint.  Professor  Friday's  estimate  of
"Total  Excess  of  Production  over  Consumption"  is  as
follows  for  the  years  1913, 1916  and  1917:

"Total  Excess  of  Production  over  Consumption

Item  1913                      1916                      1917  ,

Corporations  .  . .  1,500,000,000  5,400,000,000  6,500,000,000
Other      business

enterprises  . . .  1,200,000,000  3,000,000,000  3,500,000,000

Farms 1,200,000,000  2,800,000,000  5,000,000,000

All  other  savings  2,500,000,000  3,500,000,000  3,500,000,000

Total 6,400,000,000     14,700,000,000     18,500,000,000"

Corporations  make  reports  to  their  stockholders  and
to  the  municipalities  from  which  they  receive  their  char-
ters and  hence  we  have  reliable  data  from  which  to  make
a  very  close  estimate  as  to  corporations.  I  quote  further
from  Professor  Friday:

An  estimate  of  the  volume  of  liquid  savings  for  investment
and  for  financing  the  war  is  set  forth  in  the  following  table :

Liquid  Savings
Available  for  Investment  and  Financing  the  War


Item

1913

1916

1917

Corporations  .  . .

500,000,000

2,000,000,000

3,000,000,000

Other       business

enterprises  . . .

200,000,000

1,500,000,000

2,000,000,000

Farms

100,000,000

1,000,000,000

3,000,000,000

All  other  savings

2,000,000,000

3,000,000,000

3,000,000,000

Total

2,800,000,000

7,500,000,000

11,000,000,000

In  ordinary  times  the  savings  of  corporations,  of  other  busi-
ness enterprises  and  of  the  farmers  are  for  the  most  part  rein-
vested in  additional  working  capital  and  in  additional  plant  and
equipment.  None  of  these  classes  bring  to  the  investment  mar-
ket any  considerable  volume  of  liquid  funds  which  can  be  used
for  the  extension  and  prosecution  of  new  industrial  ventures.
The  great  volume  of  such  investment  funds  comes  from  the  sav-


so  A.  BARTON  HEPBURN

ings  of  individuals.  Life  insurance  alone  represented  in  1913
approximately  $500,000,000.  of  individual  savings.  During
1916  the  rapid  increase  in  the  volume  of  working  capital — in-
cluding inventories — of  corporations  and  other  business  enter-
prises, was  so  large  as  to  absorb  a  large  part  of  the  savings  of
these  industries.  I  estimate  that  more  than  60  per  cent  of  the
surplus  accumulated  by  corporations  in  1916  was  absorbed  in  ad-
ditional working  capital  and  necessary  additions  to  plant.  Far-
mers likewise  made  large  extensions  to  their  equipment,  such
as  buildings,  fences,  and  tools  and  machinery.  The  great  pro-
fitableness of  business  in  1916  over  previous  years  increased
the  income  of  individuals  enormously.  Wage  and  salary  in-
creases were  common  and  of  generous  proportions.  The  inter-
est and  dividend  payments  of  corporations  to  individuals  ex-
ceeded those  of  1913  by  approximately  $1,200,000,000.  With-
out doubt  the  profits  distributed  in  the  form  of  salaries  and  dis-
tribution of  earnings  by  other  business  enterprises  were  much
larger  than  usual.  Table  V  appended  hereto  shows  that  the
number  of  income  tax  returns  for  incomes  of  $150,000  and  over
was  more  than  three  times  as  large  in  1916  as  in  1914.  Prices,
however,  had  not  risen  in  1916  sufficiently  to  absorb  this  in-
crease in  individual  incomes.  Bradstreet's  Index  Number  for
1915  is  only  28  per  cent  higher  than  for  1913,  and  this  increase
was  largely  in  commodities'  which  do  not  enter  into  the  cost
of  living.

I  have  estimated  the  liquid  savings  of  individuals  at  $1,000,-
000,000  more  in  1916  than  in  1913.  The  amount  of  liquid
savings  in  the  table  above  for  1916  exceeds  the  amount  for
1913  by  $4,700,000,000.  Nearly  $4,000,000,000  of  this  was
invested  in  the  bonds  of  European  governments,  in  American
securities  resold  here  by  Europe,  and  in  an  addition  to  our
gold  supply.  The  remainder  was  absorbed  by  an  addition  to
our  usual  volume  of  new  securities  issued.  The  amount  of  new
securities  as  reported  by  the  Journal  of  Commerce  was  nearly
$500,000,000  greater  than  in  1913.


FINANCING  THE  WAR  21

In  1917  the  volume  of  inventories,  supplies  and  goods  in
process  of  manufacture  has  probably  not  increased  over  1916,
but  the  prices  of  this  working  capital  have  risen.  There  will
therefore  be,  in  my  opinion,  a  further  absorption  of  approxi-
mately $3,500,000,000  in  additions  to  working  capital  and  plant
extensions.  The  latter,  however,  will  be  much  smaller  than  in
1916.  My  estimate  is  that  $3,000,000,000  will  be  available  for
excess  profits  taxes  and  the  purchase  of  government  securities
out  of  corporate  surplus.  Similar  considerations  will  govern
the  other  business  enterprises,  and  I  estimate  that  there  will  be
available  for  payment  of  war  taxes  and  investment  $2,000,000,-
000.  The  farmers  should  have  available  a  largely  increased
amount  of  liquid  capital,  which  will  not  be  absorbed  in  addi-
tional plant  and  equipment  if  proper  inducements  are  presented
to  them  for  investment.  Individuals,  owing  to  higher  cost  of
living,  have  probably  not  saved  any  larger  quantity  of  liquid
capital  than  during  1916.  We  thus  arrive  at  a  total  of  $11,-
000,000,000  of  liquid  savings  for  1917.  Any  sum  in  addition
to  this  which  may  be  needed  for  investment  and  for  financing
the  war  will  have  to  be  provided  by  new  savings  through  a  de-
crease in  consumption.

Economy  always  means  decrease  in  consumption.
Sufficiently  rigid  economy  will  make  available  such  large
sums  undoubtedly,  but  they  are  by  no  means  normal
and  in  all  probability  will  not  be  sustained  in  future
years  and  they  are  not  a  proper  base  from  which  to  de-
termine taxation  running  for  a  period  of  years.  The
producers  of  raw  material  have  had  a  most  profitable
year  and  that  comprehends  the  farmers.  Farmers  have
in  the  past  been  borrowers  and  they  have  paid  interest
upon  their  loans  at  rates  ranging  from  5  per  cent  to  10
per  cent.  Now  in  the  Cotton  Belt  and  in  other  localities
they  can  get  interest  upon  their  funds  exceeding  the  rate
which  government  bonds  offer.    Naturally  the  farmers


22  A.  BARTON  HEPBURN

have  not  thus  far  been  large  purchasers  of  government
bonds ;  neither  do  they  to  any  great  extent  contribute  to
the  Treasury  under  the  income  tax.  Their  savings  last
year  are  estimated  to  be  27  per  cent  of  the  savings  of  the
whole  country.  How  can  their  savings  be  made  avail-
able for  support  of  the  Government  in  this  war?

Has  the  Investment  Increment  of  the  Nation  Increased

Four  or  Five  Fold  Since  1914 — Increased  from

Three  to  Twelve  or  Fifteen  Billions?

According  to  the  last  Census  there  was  an  increase  in
the  value  of  real  estate,  1904-12,  of  $48,334,920,444.  It
is  estimated  that  $2,000,000,000  per  annum  is  expended
for  buildings  and  improvements  upon  real  estate.  By
the  same  authority  the  value  of  all  property  other  than
real  estate  increased  from  1904  to  1912  $32,300,957,236.
The  average  annual  increase  was  a  little  more  than  four
billions.  Property  is  cumulative  and  the  savings  of  one
year  become  capital  of  the  next  and  serve  to  still  further
increase  the  savings  of  following  years ;  but  bear  in  mind
that  advancing  prices  do  not  increase  purchasing  power.
A  farmer's  herd  of  cattle  may  double  in  market  price
but  that  does  not  increase  his  power  to  buy  bonds,  un-
less he  sells  the  cattle,  and  selling  them  would  put  him
out  of  business.  Bear  constantly  in  mind  that  this  in-
crease in  wealth  is  not  all  money  available  for  invest-
ment. With  a  farmer  it  might  mean  more  cattle  or
horses,  with  a  railroad  it  might  mean  more  rolling  stock,
with  a  manufacturer  or  merchant  it  might  mean  more
stock  on  hand,  bills  or  accounts  receivable.  Our  query  is
as  to  the  amount  available  for  the  payment  of  taxes  and
investment  in  government  bonds.

Hon.  George  E.  Roberts,  Director  of  the  Mint  under


FINANCING  THE  WAR  «S

two  administrations,  and  now  Assistant  to  the  President
of  the  National  City  Bank  of  New  York,  is  one  of  our
best  statisticians  and  a  well  recognized  authority.  In
November,  1916,  after  a  careful  review  of  the  subject
we  are  discussing,  he  wrote,  "By  the  end  of  1916  two
more  years  of  progress  will  have  elapsed,  and  the  in-
crease of  productive  wealth  in  these  two  years  no  doubt
has  been  greater  than  in  any  other  two  years  in  our  his-
tory. It  is  safe  to  say  that  the  net  gains  of  wealth  in  the
United  States  are  now  normally  not  less  than  $7,500,-
000,000  per  annum,  not  including  the  enhancement  of
land  values,  but  including  the  fixed  improvements  upon
land.  With  the  activity  prevailing  in  1916  the  enor-
mous excess  of  exports  over  imports,  and  the  very  com-
plete employment  of  our  people  and  our  industries,  the
net  gains  of  this  year  must  be  considerably  in  excess  of
that  amount."  Continually  bear  in  mind  that  this  in-
crease in  wealth  is  not  all  in  a  form  available  for  invest-
ment and  in  part  it  represents  enhanced  values.  I  also
think  that  the  profits  for  the  year  1916  will  approximate
those  for  1917,  in  all  cases  except  the  producers  of  raw
material,  for  reasons  heretofore  given,  namely,  that  the
cost  of  materials  and  labor  has  overtaken  the  price  of  fin-
ished products,  thus  rendering  profits  more  nearly  nor-
mal. The  high  cost  of  living  has  materialy  reduced  in-
dividual savings.  Also  we  have  in  1917  taken  two  mil-
lion men,  for  the  Army  and  Navy  and  for  civil  employ-
ment connected  with  the  war,  from  the  ranks  of  pro-
duction and  transferred  them  to  the  ranks  of  consump-
tion. That  represents  a  very  great  economic  loss  and
must  lessen  the  increment  of  the  nation.  There  is  one
compensating  offset.  The  place  of  these  men  will  be
taken  in  part  by  a  class  of  women  who  heretofore  have


M  A.  BARTON  HEPBURN

possessed  little  economic  value.     In  other  words,  our
girls  are  becoming  assets  instead  of  liabilities.

According  to  competent  experts  the  net  annual  in-
come of  England,  at  the  outbreak  of  the  war,  was
$2,000,000,000.  Dr.  Karl  Helfferich,  in  1913,  estimated
the  net  income  of  Germany  to  be  slightly  over  $2,000,-
000,000.  Recalling  Sir  George  Paish's  estimate  of  the
net  income  of  the  United  States,  it  would  seem  that  the
savings  of  these  three  countries  were  approximately  the
same.  Other  estimates  of  the  net  income  of  the  United
States,  by  our  own  economists,  ranged  up  to  five  bil-
lions. This  variation  shows  the  lack  of  reliable  data.
I  canvassed  this  subject  with  Sir  George  Paish  and  I
feel  sure  that  the  normal  increment  of  the  United  States
prior  to  this  war  was  less  than  $3,000,000,000.  How
much  has  it  increased?  Profits  were  unusual,  phenome-
nal in  the  early  part  of  the  war,  but  now  that  raw  ma-
terial, labor  and  finished  products  are  coordinated  as  to
price,  what  is  our  net  income  at  present  and  what  may
we  expect  it  to  be  in  future?

Fields. for  Economy

A  temperance  wave  is  spreading  over  the  country  and
this  is  reinforced  by  sumptuary  legislation.  The  grain
that  was  used  for  beer  and  whiskey  must  be  saved  for
food.  Our  temperance  friends  tell  us  two  and  one  quar-
ter billions  are  spent  annually  for  intoxicants.  A  pro-
lific field  for  economy,  surely.  The  tobacco  crop  for
1916  was  valued,  at  the  farm,  at  $169,008,000.  From
this  was  made  417,235,928  pounds  of  smoking  and  chew-
ing product,  7,390,183,170  large  cigars,  many  small  ones
and  21,066,196,672  cigarettes.  Legislation  has  not  in-
vaded the  field  of  tobacco  consumption  except  by  way


FINANCING  THE  WAR  ^5

of  taxation.  A  great  saving  should  be  reckoned  here.
Pleasure  motor  cars,  jewelry,  clothing,  millinery  and
many  other  lines  could  suffer  great  reduction  without
interfering  with  protection  and  proper  comfort.  Many
things  not  classed  as  luxuries  should  be  reduced  to  the
minimum  in  order  to  release  man-power  employed  in
such  industries,  not  alone  for  the  Army  and  Navy  but
for  the  factory  and  field,  in  order  that  needful  things
may  be  produced  that  will  enable  us  to  win  this  war.
From  Alexander  Hamilton  to  McAdoo,  from  the  first
Secretary  of  the  Treasury  down  to  the  time  of  taking
office  of  the  present  Secretary,  less  than  $27,000,000,000
was  received  into  the  U.  S.  Treasury,  from  all  sources,
including  the  financing  of  the  War  of  1812,  Mexican
War,  Civil  War  and  Spanish  War.  Now  they  propose
to  raise  over  nineteen  billions  the  first  year  and  the  esti-
mate for  the  second  year  exceeds  fourteen  billions.  Can
they  raise  these  vast  sums?  Economy,  only,  can  give  an
affirmative  answer — gruelling  economy.  The  economy
of  the  present  will  seem  extravagance  one  year  from
now.  As  economy  increases  suffering  will  increase  and
as  war  conditions  predominate  normal  business  condi-
tions will  have  less  influence,  the  basis  of  industry  will
become  more  and  more  artificial  and  the  success  of  busi-
ness will  become  more  precarious.  A  business  man  can
study  the  crops,  the  mines,  the  factories,  the  currents  of
trade,  world  conditions  and  can  reach  a  conclusion,
based  upon  his  experience  of  the  past,  and  deter-
mine within  the  limits  of  conservatism,  his  line  of  activi-
ties. But  war  puts  everything  at  hazard  and  upsets  all
calculations,  tends  to  restrain  business  activity  and  pre-
vent new  enterprises.  Business  has  mortality  as  well  as
mankind  and  new  activities  must  continually  be  born  to


«d  A.  BARTON  HEPBURN

compensate  for  business  adventures  that,  for  one  cause
or  another,  may  cease  to  exist.  In  no  other  way  can
business  be  kept  at  full  volume.  Every  man  in  business
who  has  reached  middle  life  looks  forward  to  retirement,
a  period  of  rest  and  the  pursuit  of  those  avocations
which  most  appeal  to  him.  Aristotle  said,  "The  object
of  labor  is  to  secure  leisure."  Men  of  this  age,  in
troublesome  times,  are  apt  to  reason  that  they  had  bet-
ter retire  with  what  they  already  possess  rather  than  con-
tinue and  put  at  hazard  what  they  have  accumulated
for  protection  of  themselves  and  dependents.  It  is  the
proper  function  of  the  Government  to  foster  business
prosperity,  it  is  also  their  selfish  interest  to  do  so,  for
then  people  will  cheerfully  bear  heavy  burdens  of  taxa-
tion and  patriotically  place  their  surplus  funds  at  the
disposal  of  the  Government.  The  Government  with  its
taxing  power  must  stop  short  of  impairing  business,
either  by  discouraging  new  enterprise  or  by  the  imposi-
tion of  excessive  burdens ;  and  this  is  why  the  proximate
determination  of  the  increment  of  the  nation  is  so  im-
portant. To  impose  taxes  greater  than  can  be  paid
from  current  earnings  would  be  to  compel  the  reduction
of  capital  in  order  to  pay  the  tax.  It  would  be  in  effect
a  capital  tax.  It  would  force  borrowing  from  banks
under  circumstances  which  could  have  no  other  effect
than  to  impair  credit.  The  borrowing  needs  of  any  busi-
ness enterprise  are  greatest  when  the  volume  of  its  busi-
ness is  greatest.  With  growth  in  volume  of  business  the
capital  of  the  enterprise  becomes  fully  employed  and
must  be  supplemented  by  appeals  to  the  banks.  The
profits  of  a  business  determine  the  amount  of  income  tax
to  be  paid  and  also  the  excess  profit  tax  to  be  paid,  as
fixed  by  recent  legislation.    Now  the  profit  for  the  year


FINANCING  THE  WAR  «7

of  any  going  business  is  represented  only  in  small  part
by  money  as  we  have  seen.  It  inevitably  follows  that
most  large  corporations  and  many  individuals  will  bor-
row money  with  which  to  pay  their  taxes  imposed  by
recent  laws;  they  will  compete  with  the  Government  as
borrowers  in  order  to  pay  their  tax  obligations  to  the
Government.

I  repeat  that  I  think  as  stiff  taxation  should  be  im-
posed as  may  be  without  lessening  the  activities  or  im-
pairing the  ability  of  people  to  pay  and  subscribe.  Such
taxation  will  be  cheerfully  borne.  But  the  Congression-
al idea  and  the  popular  idea  that  this  is  a  country  of  un-
limited wealth,  that  we  can  finance  other  nations  with-
out stint,  and  spend  billions  by  the  score  annually  and
obtain  these  vast  sums,  at  will,  by  taxation  and  by  bor-
rowing, is  a  mischievous  idea.  People  can  only  buy
bonds  and  pay  taxes  out  of  their  savings,  the  money
they  have  left  over  after  paying  their  current  expenses,
including  the  cost  of  hving.

Danger  of  Inflation

The  first  income  tax  and  revenue  bill  produced,  in
1916,  $512,702,028.78.  The  Commissioner  of  Internal
Revenue  estimates  that  it  will  produce  $750,000,000  in
1917  and  that  the  supplemental  bill  will  increase  the
amount  to  $3,500,000,000.  This  amount  is  larger  than
the  increment  of  the  whole  nation  at  the  beginning  of
the  war.

There  is  a  limit  to  what  Congress  can  do  with  safety
and  propriety,  and  it  seems  to  me  that  the  best  service
we  can  render  is  to  help  find  that  limit,  that  the  Govern-
ment may  not  overstep  the  same  and  thereby  invite
disaster,  the  disaster  of  currency  inflation  and  a  paper


28  A.  BARTON  HEPBURN

basis.  The  Government  can  raise  money  without  limit
by  resorting  to  the  printing  press.  They  can  make
Federal  Reserve  Bank  notes  legal  tender,  borrow  from
the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  and  take  pay  in  such  legal
tender  notes.  That  is  practically  what  some  countries
in  Europe  have  done.  That  would  put  us  on  a  paper
basis,  produce  inflation  of  currency,  depreciation  of
values  and  all  the  train  of  concomitant  evils.  The  great
danger  that  confronts  us  is  that  we  fall  into  the  same
financial  welter  that  obtains  in  some  European  coun-
tries, that  we  will  lose  the  proud  preeminence  of  being
squarely  on  a  gold  basis,  with  the  prestige  that  it  will
give  us  after  the  war  and  the  impetus  that  it  will  give  to
our  international  trade  after  the  war.  Dollar  exchange,
with  the  dollar  on  a  paper  basis,  will  make  little  head-
way in  displacing  the  pound  sterling,  and  the  recent
enormous  growth  in  our  financial  and  commercial  rela-
tions with  the  world  may  fade  away.

Germany's  Experience

Germany  had  the  best  ordered  banking  system  of  any
country  at  the  beginning  of  the  war.  She  had  land
banks,  mortgage  banks,  industrial  banks,  and  a  splendid
system  of  commercial  banks.  She  was  prepared  for  the
war.  The  next  day  after  war  was  declared  she  opened
a  new  class  of  loan  banks — Darlehenskassen — about
1800  in  number,  one  in  every  place  where  the  Reichs-
bank  had  a  branch.  They  were  authorized  to  make
loans  on  non-perishable  personal  property.  They  were
started  without  capital,  in  lieu  of  which  they  were  au-
thorized to  issue  a  currency  called  Darlehenskassen
Schein  in  payment  of  such  loans.  These  notes  were
made  exchangeable  for  notes  of  the  Reichsbank  which


FINANCING  THE  WAR  «9

latter  are  legal  tender.  The  Reichsbank  had  for  years
been  required  to  maintain  a  gold  and  silver  reserve
against  outstanding  circulating  notes  equal  to  thirty-
three  and  one-third  per  cent.  The  law  was  changed  and
the  Reichsbank  was  allowed  to  consider  these  Darlehens-
kassen  Schein  as  gold  cover — some  as  gold  reserve.
That  means  that  against  100  marks  of  this  currency  the
Reichsbank  could  issue  300  marks  of  its  own  notes.  The
flood  gates  were  opened  wide.  Up  to  date  Germany  has
realized  73,000,000,000  marks  from  bond  sales,  accord-
ing to  a  recent  statement  of  her  Chancellor.  And  the
Reichstag  has  just  authorized  another  bond  issue  of
15,000,000,000  marks.  Her  borrowings  in  the  form  of
Treasury  notes  and  other  circulating  mediums  amount
to  20,000,000,000  marks.  In  the  early  period  of  the
war,  in  order  to  emphasize  Germany's  financial  power
and  great  resources,  her  Chancellor  stated  that  Ger-
many could,  if  the  need  arose  in  order  to  win  the  war,
raise  sixty  billion  marks.  She  has  already  far  exceeded
that  amount.  There  are  many  things  the  Germans  do
worthy  to  be  copied  and  many  that  are  not  worthy.
Let  us  strive  not  to  copy  their  financial  experience  in  the
present  war.  Our  loans  to  Allies  and  expenditures
should  stop  short  of  impairing  our  credit  as  a  nation.
The  Government  fixed  the  price  of  coal,  in  order  to
prevent  extortion,  and  they  acted  unwisely,  naming
prices  that  limited  production  at  a  time  when  the  whole
world  is  suffering  for  coal.  The  practical  working  of
the  schedule  showed  their  error  and  they  amended  their
action;  but  at  what  a  cost!  Worldwide  transportation
is  indispensable  to  win  this  war.  The  Government's
treatment  has  been  such  for  25  years  as  to  impair  the
confidence  of  wouldbe  investors  in  railroad  securities.


80  A.  BARTON  HEPBURN

with  resulting  difficulty  in  financing  the  indispensable
needs  of  the  roads  and  the  equally  indispensable  needs
of  the  public.  Our  Government  has  forbidden  a  di-
vision of  territory  by  the  railroads,  has  forbidden  pool-
ing of  freight  or  pooling  of  earnings,  has  forbidden  traf-
fic agreements,  manifestly  in  the  interest  of  the  shipper
and  the  public,  for  fear  that  a  monopoly  would  be  cre-
ated; compelled  parallel  lines  to  maintain  an  almost
hostile  attitude  to  escape  Governmental  suspicion;  all
must  compete,  lest  they  conspire  and  agree — competi-
tion, enforced  competition  was  the  only  panacea.  The
Interstate  Conamerce  Commission  doggedly  refused  in-
crease in  freight  rates  to  railroads  notwithstanding  the
manifest  increase  in  cost  of  management.  Large  in-
creases in  the  wages  paid  their  employees  and  the  wages
paid  to  coal  miners,  which  added  directly  to  the  cost  of
coal  consumed  by  their  locomotives,  found  favor  with
the  Government,  but  a  corresponding  increase  in  the
charge  the  railways  make  to  the  public  for  service  found
no  favor.  A  crisis  in  railway  affairs  logically  arose.
Now  the  Government  has  taken  over  the  roads  and
flung  to  the  winds  the  principles  underlying  the  Sher-
man Law,  the  law  creating  and  defining  the  power  of
the  Interstate  Commerce  Commission,  and  all  laws  by
which  they  have  for  the  past  twenty-five  years  sought
to  regulate  the  railroads.  The  Government  has,  in  this
crisis,  proceeded  to  do  what  railway  managers  were  for-
bidden to  do  and  for  the  doing  of  which  the  Government
has  held  prison  doors  ajar  for  two  decades.  The  tuition
is  high  but  we  are  learning  valuable  lessons  from  our  ex-
perience in  this  war.  To  you,  as  students,  this  marked
change  in  the  attitude  of  our  Government  is  worthy  of
present  note  and  future  study.    The  Government  now


FINANCING  THE  WAR  dl

fully  realizes  that  the  business  activities  of  the  country
as  a  whole  must  have  proper  treatment  in  order  to  mobi-
lize the  great  power  of  the  nation  and  give  to  its  action
homogeneity,  harmony  and  efficiency  in  this  great  crisis.
Our  Government  is  striving  hard  and  doing  its  very
best  to  accomplish  what  we  all  so  much  desire,  win  this
war,  and  all  comment  and  criticism  should  be  kindly,
not  captious,  designed  to  help  not  to  hinder.  Shoulder
to  shoulder  we  must  give  the  government  every  support
that  economy  and  patriotism  can  furnish.

What  of  the  Future
One  is  tempted  to  speculate  as  to  conditions  after  the
war.  How  can  these  nations  so  overwhelmed  in  debt
bear  up  under  the  interest  charges,  let  alone  payment
of  the  principal?  Just  before  the  war  Germany  imposed
a  capital  tax  in  order  to  create  a  war  chest.  A  capital
tax  means  a  certain  per  cent  levied  upon  all  capital,  the
wealth  of  the  nation.  For  instance,  a  10  per  cent  capital
tax  levied  upon  the  wealth  of  the  nation,  payable  in  gov-
ernment securities  to  be  cancelled,  would  scale  down  the
funded  debt  very  largely.  Portugal,  in  financial  need,
imposed  a  tax  upon  her  outstanding  bonds  which  in  ef-
fect reduced  the  interest  which  the  holders  received  to
1  per  cent,  and  later,  when  her  financial  budget  was  more
favorable,  changed  the  tax  so  that  her  bond  owners  real-
ized Ij  per  cent.  Repudiation  is  vulger  and  leaves  a
taint ;  by  indirection  the  same  result  may  be  in  part  ac-
complished. Given  fixed  conditions  one  might,  in  the
light  of  experience,  figure  out  a  reasonable  conclusion  as
to  the  future.  Conditions  are  not  fixed  and  the  financial
condition  of  the  warring  nations  is  one  hundred  millions
worse  today  than  yesterday  and  they  will  be  one  hun-


8«  A.  BARTON  HEPBURN

dred  millions  more  involved  tomorrow  than  today,  and
the  end  of  the  war  is  not  in  sight.  Why  speculate?
One  thing  is  certain  that  following  the  war  Doctor
Demagogue  will  be  in  evidence  and  will  have  abundant
nostrums  ranging  from  sugar-coated  speciousness  to
rank  repudiation.

Adam  Smith,  in  his  Wealth  of  Nations,  revised  in
1776,  at  which  time  the  total  debt  of  all  civilized  nations
was  about  two  and  one  half  billions  of  dollars,  uses  this
language:  "The  progress  of  the  enormous  debts  which
at  present  oppress,  and  in  the  long  run  will  probably
ruin,  all  the  Great  Nations  of  Europe  has  been  pretty
uniform."  Shades  of  Adam  Smith,  if  cognizant  of  af-
fairs of  the  world  in  which  you  once  lived,  kindly  cast
the  world's  horoscope  and  tell  us  what  of  the  f  utiu*e !


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY


