Page 1
Page 1
J . P.  M O R G A N  &  C O .  A N D  T H E  C R I S I S  O F
C A P I TA L I S M
During the interwar period, J.P. Morgan was the most important bank in the
world and at the crossroads of US politics, international relations, and finance. In
J.P. Morgan & Co. and the Crisis of Capitalism, Martin Horn brings us the first
in-depth history of how J.P. Morgan responded to the greatest crisis in the history
of financial capitalism, shedding new light on the Great Depression, the New
Deal, and the coming of World War II. Horn shows how J.P. Morgan & Co. as a
business responded to the crash of 1929 and the Depression, including its part in
the Wall Street Crash, arguing that the Morgan partners misread the seriousness
of the crash. He also offers new insights into the interactions of politics and
finance, exploring J.P. Morgan’s relationship with the Hoover administration and
the bank’s clash with Roosevelt over New Deal legislation.
Martin Horn is Associate Dean of Graduate Studies and Research in the Faculty
of Humanities at McMaster University. His previous publications include
Britain, France and the Financing of the First World War (2002) and, with Dr.
Talbot Imlay, The Politics of Industrial Collaboration during World War II: Ford
France, Vichy and Nazi Germany (2014).
Page 2
Page 2
J.P. MORGAN & CO. AND
THE CRISIS OF CAPITALISM
From the Wall Street Crash to World
War II
Martin Horn
McMaster University, Ontario
Page 3
Page 3
University Printing House, Cambridge CB2 8BS, United Kingdom
One Liberty Plaza, 20th Floor, New York, NY 10006, USA
477 Williamstown Road, Port Melbourne, VIC 3207, Australia
314–321, 3rd Floor, Plot 3, Splendor Forum, Jasola District Centre, New Delhi – 110025, India
103 Penang Road, #05–06/07, Visioncrest Commercial, Singapore 238467
Cambridge University Press is part of the University of Cambridge.
It furthers the University’s mission by disseminating knowledge in the pursuit of education,
learning, and research at the highest international levels of excellence.
www.cambridge.org
Information on this title: www.cambridge.org/9781108498371
DOI: 10.1017/9781108653602
© Martin Horn 2022
This publication is in copyright. Subject to statutory exception and to the provisions of relevant
collective licensing agreements, no reproduction of any part may take place without the written
permission of Cambridge University Press.
First published 2022
Printed in the United Kingdom by TJ Books Limited, Padstow Cornwall
A catalogue record for this publication is available from the British Library.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Names: Horn, Martin, 1959– author.
Title: J.P. Morgan & Co. and the crisis of capitalism : from the Wall Street crash to World War II /
Martin Horn, McMaster University, Ontario.
Description: Cambridge, United Kingdom ; New York, NY : Cambridge University Press, 2022. |
Includes bibliographical references and index.
Page 4
Page 4
Identifiers: LCCN 2021037842 (print) | LCCN 2021037843 (ebook) | ISBN 9781108498371
(hardback) | ISBN 9781108653602 (ebook)
Subjects: LCSH: J.P. Morgan & Co. | Banks and banking – United States – History – 20th
century. | Investment banking – United States – History – 20th century. | Capitalism – United
States – History – 20th century. | United States – Economic conditions – 1918–1945. | BISAC:
BUSINESS & ECONOMICS / Economic History
Classification: LCC HG2481 .H67 2022 (print) | LCC HG2481 (ebook) | DDC 332.10973–dc23
LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2021037842
LC ebook record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2021037843
ISBN 978-1-108-49837-1 Hardback
Cambridge University Press has no responsibility for the persistence or accuracy of URLs for external
or third-party internet websites referred to in this publication and does not guarantee that any content
on such websites is, or will remain, accurate or appropriate.
Page 5
Page 5
To Lisa, Madelaine, and Miranda
Page 6
Page 6
Contents
List of Figures and Tables
Acknowledgements
Introduction
1 “The Heart of Contemporary Capitalism”: The Partners and Their
Bank
2 J.P. Morgan & Co. at Home and Abroad in the 1920s
3 The Young Plan, the Bank for International Settlements, and the Wall
Street Crash, 1929–1930
4 “The End of the World”? The 1931 Crises
5 “Witchcraft”: J.P. Morgan & Co., Hoover, and the Depression in the
United States, 1930–1933
6 “In the Storm Cellar”: J.P. Morgan & Co. and the New Deal,
1933–1936
7 J.P. Morgan & Co. and the Foreign Policy of the New Deal: Germany,
Italy, Japan, and the Nye Committee, 1933–1937
8 The Coming of War and the End of the Partnership, 1937–1940
Conclusion
Appendices
Page 7
Page 7
Bibliography
Index
Page 8
Page 8
Figures and Tables
Figures
1.1 Jack Morgan on board ship, 1933.
1.2 Thomas W. Lamont, George Whitney, and Jack Morgan during the Pecora
hearings, 1933.
1.3 Junius S. Morgan, Jack Morgan, Harold Stanley, and Russell C. Leffingwell
at the Pecora hearings.
1.4 Thomas S. Lamont at the Pecora hearings, 1933.
1.5 Arthur Anderson at the Wheeler Committee hearings, 1936.
1.6 One former J.P. Morgan & Co. partner and two J.P. Morgan & Co. partners at
the Temporary National Economic Committee hearings, 1939.
2.1 The Morgan & Cie. partner Nelson Dean Jay as a Lt. Col. in the US Army,
c.1918–19.
2.2 Edward Charles Grenfell of Morgan Grenfell, 1929.
2.3 The Morgan representative Giovanni Fummi in Rome, 1919.
3.1 President Calvin Coolidge, Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon, and
Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover on the steps of the White House, 1928.
3.2 Hjalmar Schacht and Montagu Norman, 1930.
3.3 Members of the American Reparations Commission, in conference with the
Secretary of State Henry L. Stimson, 1929.
3.4 The Van Sweringen brothers, O.P. and M.J., at the Pecora hearings in 1933.
Page 9
Page 9
4.1 S. Parker Gilbert, Agent-General for Reparations and J.P. Morgan & Co.
partner 1931–38.
5.1 Depositors outside a Bank of the United States branch, 1930.
6.1 Jack Morgan and partners at the Pecora hearings in 1933 in a photograph
showing the oppressive heat.
6.2 Senator Carter Glass and Ferdinand Pecora during the Pecora hearings, 1933.
6.3 President Franklin D. Roosevelt signs the Banking Bill 1935.
7.1 Senator Gerald P. Nye in conference with Thomas W. Lamont, Jack Morgan,
and George Whitney during the Nye hearings, 1936.
8.1 Business and labour leaders leaving the White House in January 1938 after
conferring with Roosevelt on the plan sponsored by Adolf A. Berle to end the
1937–38 recession.
Tables
1.1 Breakdown of Morgan bond and preferred stock offerings between January
1919 and May 1933.
1.2 Partners in J.P. Morgan & Co., 31 December 1928.
5.1 J.P. Morgan & Co. consolidated statement of condition, in millions of
dollars.
Page 10
Page 10
Acknowledgements
This is a book about bankers that has been too long in gestation. Less promising
opening sentences may be imagined but a search would be needed. There is a
view that bankers and banking are grey men (almost always men) conducting a
grey business, hardly worth a book. If a book there must be, it, like its subjects,
will be dull. I hope that readers will find that this book is not dull, for its subjects
and its time are not. One encounter with the J.P. Morgan & Co. partner Russell
C. Leffingwell will dispel any notion of the banker as a grey man. If readers do
find the book dull, that verdict, like the gestation, should be laid at my feet.
Scholars have generally been uneasy about bankers. Some of this has been
due to the abiding strength of Marxist thought in the academy, which, while
appreciating that the banker was necessary to move along the dialectic, also
regards the banker as emblematic of the persistence of capitalism and its evils.
Some of this has been down to a fear that historians who work on banks have
been captured either by the bank or by the bankers. Authorized histories – which
this is not – are often seen as tainted. Some of this has been a result of the trends
that have reshaped history as a discipline. Over time, the fissuring of “That
Noble Dream,” which has been positive for so many who were ignored or
written out of history, has relegated bankers – never a popular field of inquiry
even in the days when history was about great white men doing great things
–further down the sporting table.
Page 11
Page 11
Perhaps this is because one problem encountered in writing about a bank is
the archives. Unlike public archives such as The National Archives, UK, at Kew,
company archives remain at the disposal of the firm. As J.P. Morgan & Co. was
a private partnership until April 1940, where this book leaves off, the records of
the firm belonged both to the partners and to the bank. Happily, this has meant
the survival of several major collections of archival material, especially
concerning the three most important Morgan partners of the 1930s: J.P. Morgan
Jr., Thomas W. Lamont, and Leffingwell. Each left copious documentation. In
Lamont’s case, the finding aid to his papers runs into the hundreds of pages.
Less happily, the partnership kept no records of its weekly meetings, and the
other Morgan partners’ impress is not as detectable in the surviving archival
material. Some of this weakness is offset by material held in The Morgan
Library in New York. These core collections have been supplemented by
research conducted in archives in the United States and in Britain. I would like
to thank all of the archives referenced in the bibliography for permission to use
their manuscript collections.
I am indebted to various individuals who have helped bring the book to
fruition. Archivists are wonderful to deal with; they want scholars to learn from
and use their collections. All of those whose assistance I relied on I wish to
thank for their generosity of spirit and time. Special thanks go to the staff and
personnel at the Baker Library (Harvard), The Morgan Library, and the Herbert
Hoover Presidential Library. Karl Taylor, who is not an archivist, deserves
particular note. Working on his own history of Nelson Dean Jay, an American
partner in Morgan & Cie., in Paris, he brought to my attention the existence of
the Jay papers now held at Knox College. To him and to the college, my thanks.
Others have aided by reading what I have written and providing informed,
pithy commentary that has improved the book. My sometime collaborator Talbot
Imlay and my colleagues Pamela Swett and John Weaver have all read
Page 12
Page 12
substantial chunks of the manuscript. Their remarks strengthened the book
immeasurably. Stephen Schuker kindly gave of his time to share his unrivalled
knowledge one night in Charlottesville.
One historian falls into a special category of thanks due. I never met the late
Vincent Carosso, the author of the authoritative study of the Morgan bank down
to 1913. He had begun work on a successor volume and collected considerable
material in the pursuit of this aim, which is now available as the Carosso papers
in The Morgan Library; however, he did not get far in writing his sequel. I am
quite sure that he would have written a very different study from what readers
will find in these pages. I am indebted to his pioneering research.
Stephanie Corazza, Brittany Gataveckas, and Katarina Todić, exemplary
graduate students one and all, and now holding well-deserved doctorates,
assisted in the research. I am grateful to each of them. Finally, at various times,
and in various places, scholarly audiences listened to what I had to say, forcing
reflection with their comments and questions, which were always beneficial. To
those who participated, my thanks.
Michael Watson, the executive publisher for history and trade, at
Cambridge University Press was encouraging in his thoughts about the
manuscript and patient as the book moved from idea, to prospectus, to sample
chapters, and to submission past the deadline. To him and to his team at
Cambridge University Press, my gratitude. To the anonymous reviewers, I am
grateful for their positive assessment as well as the directions suggested.
My wife, Lisa Pasternak, was instrumental. She read every word of the
manuscript while balancing her busy career as a municipal lawyer. Without her
input, the book would be much impoverished.
The book was finished as the COVID-19 pandemic struck. Readers will
notice that nothing is said of this crisis and capitalism. As the human tragedy of
the coronavirus unfolds, it is too early, too raw, too visceral, to make
Page 13
Page 13
generalizations about our current crisis and the crisis of the capitalism in the
1930s. More distance is required, not least as we hope that the pandemic will be
mastered.
Page 14
Page 14
Introduction
◈
Late in February 1930, Owen Young journeyed by private railcar to Arizona.
Young was at the height of his fame as a General Electric executive, as the
founder of the Radio Corporation of America (RCA), and as an international
statesman whose name adorned the just-concluded Young Plan. Time magazine
named him man of the year in 1929, and he was bruited as a possible presidential
candidate in 1932.1 Discussion with his travelling companion, Everett Case,
turned to Young’s friend, J.P. Morgan Jr. (Jack Morgan), the senior partner of J.P.
Morgan & Co. Young thought that it was a pity that Jack Morgan was so little
known to the American public, for J.P. Morgan & Co. was “the most important
banking house in the world with the power of affecting the lives of people in this
country and throughout the world.” A decade later, Morris Ernst, a prominent
New York lawyer and the general counsel of the American Civil Liberties Union
from 1929 to 1955, wrote another Morgan partner, Russell C. Leffingwell. Ernst
mused: “I think your house has a responsibility that is practically superhuman,
and assuming complete honesty and ability can never be met to the satisfaction
of society.”2 Young was an intimate of the Morgan partners, Ernst a critic who
believed that the Morgan part in American life was baleful. Both agreed that J.P.
Morgan & Co.’s influence was pervasive. Yet there is no account of the bank
during the period, though references to J.P. Morgan & Co., its partners, and its
doings populate the pages of many histories.3 This book corrects that omission.
Page 15
Page 15
It has two aims. The first is to assay the history of J.P. Morgan & Co. as a
business between 1929 and 1940. There are few book-length studies of banks in
the interwar years, though nearly all historians would acknowledge their
salience. As 1929 opened, the bank was a partnership in a prosperous United
States. There ensued a convulsive decade of Crash, Depression, New Deal, and
the coming of a new war. In 1940, the Morgan partners opted to turn their backs
on their partnership, choosing to incorporate. Why? Answering this question
involves asking others: Who were J.P. Morgan & Co.’s partners and what kinds
of business did they carry out? How did the partnership meet and adapt to the
challenges it faced from 1929 to 1940 as its business changed? Throughout these
years, the Morgan perspective was conditioned by the dilemma of the private
merchant banker enduring the crisis of capitalism. There were, the book argues,
three different Morgan banks during these years: the J.P. Morgan & Co. of 1929
to mid-1931 when the full effects of the Depression had not yet been felt; the J.P.
Morgan & Co. of late 1931 to 1935, battered by Depression and struggling to
come to grips with it and with the New Deal; and the J.P. Morgan & Co. of
1936–40, a commercial bank shorn of its investment banking arm that was
pondering its future. Navigating the rapids and shoals of the 1930s were the
Morgan partners. They helmed the bank and set the Morgan course. For the
Morgan partners, the choices of the 1930s were fraught. Events between 1931
and 1933, especially the last quarter of 1931 and the first quarter of 1933, when
the bank suffered wrenching losses, scarred, reinforcing the habitual
conservatism of these private merchant bankers throughout the remainder of the
decade and colouring indelibly how the Morgan partners responded to the
challenges that followed. Risk became unthinkable in Morgan banking practice.
Forced by the Banking Act of 1933, better known as Glass–Steagall, to make a
choice between commercial and investment banking, seeking to cope with an
economy that sputtered from 1935, the long-term survival of J.P. Morgan & Co.
Page 16
Page 16
meant ending their partnership. In this sense, the book is a case study of the
response of financial capitalism to the greatest crisis in its history.
The second, wider aim is to integrate the history of J.P. Morgan & Co. with
that of the history of capitalism and of the 1930s. While there has been a
resurgence of interest among scholars in capitalism, as evidenced in the acclaim
for work by historians such as Sven Beckert, there remains much to be done.
Linked is another development. Some years ago, Steve Fraser and Gary Gerstle
lamented the turn away from the study of elites in American history, seeing in its
abandonment by the academy a failing that needed redressing. The Morgan
partners were the embodiment of the interwar American elite. If we accept, to
borrow the title of a well-known work, that there are “varieties of capitalism,”
then a study of J.P. Morgan & Co. as a capitalist institution offers insight into the
history of capitalism, into the study of elites, and into the varieties of capitalism
as the crisis of the 1930s raised questions about its survival.4 What follows is
both granular, in its focus on the bank as a business, and expansive in the sense
of the bank as a symbol of American elites and American capitalism.
The Morgan partners were bankers. That reality shaped their responses to
the challenges they faced. Yet J.P. Morgan & Co. was not just any bank, as
attested to by the testimony of Young and Ernst. From 1918, it was the most
important bank in the world. The partners were entangled in domestic politics,
international relations, and finance. Ford, Morgan, and Rockefeller were the
Olympians of American capitalist gods in the interwar years. As the crises of the
1930s unfolded, J.P. Morgan & Co. were participants in and observers of the
tumult. If the overarching story is one of decline – the Morgan bank was less
consequential in 1940 than it had been in 1929, Ernst notwithstanding – this arc
was less apparent to contemporaries. The Morgan partners were immersed in the
New York Stock Exchange Crash of 1929, counselled Herbert Hoover as the
Depression progressed, and sparred with Franklin D. Roosevelt during the New
Page 17
Page 17
Deal. They were pilloried by Father Coughlin and Senator Huey Long, and they
were the American bankers to Italy and Japan. Their experience speaks to
questions of abiding and enduring interest for economists and historians. How
did J.P. Morgan & Co. respond to the Crash and the coming of the Depression?
What was the bank’s relationship with the Hoover administration? Between
1933 and 1936, Roosevelt’s New Deal reshaped American capitalism. How did
the Morgan partners react? After Roosevelt’s re-election, what part did the
Morgan bank play as the sharp downturn of 1937–38 threatened renewed
destabilization? As the New Deal’s energies flagged, Americans became more
preoccupied with the spectre of war. What role did J.P. Morgan & Co. play as the
revisionist states of Germany, Japan, and Italy challenged the existing order?
What was the relationship between J.P. Morgan & Co. and the foreign policy
pursued by the Roosevelt administration?
These questions are at the core of the book. The first two chapters address
the Morgan bank and its place in the United States and the world before 1929.5
Background these chapters may be, but they are fundamental in appreciating J.P.
Morgan & Co. and the 1930s. If, as the book demonstrates, the crisis years
between 1929 and 1940 were far more than a coda to what went before, there is
no question of divisibility. Understanding J.P. Morgan & Co., its place in
American life and in the world, begins well before 1929. Chapter 1 assesses the
firm’s antecedents and its connections to Britain and France, as well as setting
out the history of the bank to 1918. Within this world, Britain was the lodestone
for the Morgan partners, its banking culture and history imparting a permanent
stamp on J.P. Morgan & Co. Contrary to what may be thought, the bank of the
1920s was a sober, conservative banking house. Active in a range of areas at
home and abroad, delineating these activities – clients, credits, and loans –
demystifies what J.P. Morgan & Co. did. An examination of the structure of the
Page 18
Page 18
bank, with an emphasis on the partners, follows. The senior partners – Jack
Morgan, Thomas W. Lamont, Leffingwell, and George Whitney – are analysed
to weigh their personalities and beliefs. Their convictions determined the bank’s
outlook through the 1930s. The second chapter is a consideration of J.P. Morgan
& Co. in American life, from the Progressive charge that it epitomized the
Money Trust to its status as the bulwark of the established financial order on
Wall Street. The American financial system of the 1920s was under duress due
to a variety of factors. So too was the Morgan place at the apex of the pyramid of
American finance. J.P. Morgan & Co. led Wall Street, but Wall Street was not the
sum of American finance, nor was the Morgan supremacy uncontested. There
were many voices on Wall Street, not just the stentorian Morgan tone. Much of
J.P. Morgan & Co.’s influence arose from its international reach – with its
associated firms in London, Morgan Grenfell, and in Paris, Morgan & Cie. –
known as the House of Morgan.6 Chapter 2 suggests that Morgan power was tied
intimately to Britain and France as the victors of World War I. When Anglo-
French suzerainty over the international system crumbled, so too did Morgan
sway erode. J.P. Morgan & Co.’s international orientation meant that its partners,
naturally enough, saw the challenges of the 1930s as both international and
domestic. The two were interwoven. Chapters 1 and 2 thus contextualize the
debates, controversies, and divides of the 1930s in terms of the developments of
the decades before 1929.
In October 1929, the New York Stock Market crashed; by 1933, the world
was years into the Depression and into the crisis of capitalism. Explaining these
events remains a challenge that Chapters 3, 4, and 5 tackle. Division remains in
analyses on the origins and course of the Depression. The search for the “Holy
Grail” of economics, an explanation that will unite if not all then most scholars
in an understanding of what happened, continues. These analyses emphasize
Page 19
Page 19
systemic failings to understand the Depression.7 J.P. Morgan & Co. fit uneasily
into such explanations. As a private merchant bank, it was not a member of the
Federal Reserve and was outside the system in a formal sense. That said, its
influence was seen – often negatively – as greater than any other on Wall Street
or, in more conspiratorial formulations, than the Federal Reserve itself. The
“paranoid-style” is rejected in these pages in favour of a nuanced and, candidly,
imprecise formulation of Morgan influence. As for the United States proper,
debate about President Herbert Hoover and his administration’s response to the
onset and deepening of the Depression remains lively. Here, a different
perspective is proffered of Hoover.
Chapters 3–5 argue that J.P. Morgan & Co. played a serious, sustained part
in the events of 1929–33. The Morgan partners believed in a multilateral liberal
capitalist trading order resting on a restored gold standard. They were convinced
that American prosperity was connected to European prosperity. J.P. Morgan &
Co.’s participation in wartime Allied financing and European reconstruction in
the 1920s had solidified this world view. Chapter 3 opens with 1929. As the new
year began, the Morgan partners were preoccupied with resolving the last
hindrances to a stable, harmonious Europe. Once this was accomplished, they
thought a halcyon future beckoned for Europe and for the United States.
Creating new financial machinery to accomplish this end, in the form of the
Young Plan and the Bank for International Settlements (BIS), drove them in
1929. The Stock Market Crash was of less moment for the Morgan partners.
When it came – to their surprise – Morgan efforts were directed at restoring
order in the market rather than seeking a resolution to the panic. Nor did the
Morgan partners consider the stock market fall a transformative event. For them,
it was a fleeting phenomenon betokening no lasting damage. The Morgan
partners were, cautiously, optimistic after the Crash, a position that both
Page 20
Page 20
reflected and fed American opinion. What mattered in the Morgan view was
implementing the Young Plan and BIS, a conviction that lasted until the summer
of 1930. It was not until the fall that the Morgan partners admitted that a
depression was in the offing. This explanation of Morgan actions and outlook in
1929–30 helps us understand why Wall Street was slow to react as the American
economy deteriorated. J.P. Morgan & Co., the leader of the Street, was focused
on international developments, not domestic considerations.
International turmoil continued in 1931, with shattering consequences, as
the fourth chapter discusses. A new Morgan partner, S. Parker Gilbert, the
former Agent-General for Reparations, was a notable force in making Morgan
policy in 1931–32. Three crises – the collapse of CreditAnstalt in May; turmoil
in Germany in June–July; and the Sterling Crisis in Britain in July–September –
dominated 1931. The partners took for granted that their advice would be
welcomed in Washington, London, and Paris, a reflection both of their
importance and of their hubris. J.P. Morgan & Co. counselled that these crises
should be met through a reconstitution of the wartime alliance, not just in form
but also in deed. This approach, which developed as the crises unfolded, was
driven in part by Morgan fear that transmission of the German crisis might
destabilize the American banking system. Its implementation depended on
cooperation with the Hoover administration, which proved troublesome. The
Morgan partners were ambivalent about Hoover, doubted his capacity, lamented
his diplomatic skills, and yet needed his support. The British departure from the
gold standard in September 1931 was a tremendous blow, confirming to the
partners in their view that Franco-American cooperation was necessary if the
Depression was to be overcome and raising for the first time the possibility that
the Depression threatened capitalism. In the last months of that year, capital fled
the United States after sterling’s departure from gold, triggering a Federal
Reserve rate increase and spurring deflation. The American economy contracted
Page 21
Page 21
as did global economies. The J.P. Morgan & Co. balance sheet collapsed, with
swingeing losses compressed into the last quarter of 1931. The harrowing effects
of the latter, financial and psychological, lasted through the remainder of the
decade but in the short term catalysed a Morgan reappraisal of what was
transpiring. Chapter 4 strengthens the case of scholars who have seen 1931 as
the year that transformed a deep recession into a global Depression.8
The Depression in the United States between 1930 and 1933 is the subject
of Chapter 5. Bankers are often seen as missing in action in the Depression in
America in these years, conspicuous primarily either by the waves of
bankruptcies that whittled their number or through their inertia that contributed
to, and was promoted by, economic catastrophe.9 The argument made in this
chapter is for an activist J.P. Morgan & Co. Activism did not mean that the
Morgan partners had solutions to the Depression – they did not. Self-appointed
as clinicians for ailing private firms, J.P. Morgan & Co. undertook, selectively, to
aid New York institutions that found themselves in trouble in 1930–31. The
Morgan capacity to perform this role was overwhelmed by the 1931 debacle.
Morgan activism of this kind was short-lived. Activism, however, continued
albeit in a different form. By the late summer of 1931, Leffingwell and Parker
Gilbert were convinced that deflation was cutting into the bone of capitalism.
The root cause of the trouble was World War I. Leffingwell and Gilbert argued
that 1918 was only a hiatus; economic war had replaced open war, a state of
affairs revealed by the Depression, deflation and the British departure from the
gold standard. This analysis led the Morgan partners in 1932–33 to urge
policymakers to adopt “war-time expedients” to counter deflation. Diluting the
force of this argument were various complications. One was the Morgan
relationship with Hoover. Superficially the Morgan analysis of the Depression
and Hoover’s were not dissimilar. Both saw the Depression as an international
Page 22
Page 22
phenomenon. There similarity ended. Hoover’s reluctance to jettison his reliance
upon private, associational means to claw the United States out of the
Depression meant that his efforts were too tepid for the Morgan partners. They
advocated bolder measures to overcome deflation. Hoover resented these efforts,
feeding his contempt for Wall Street bankers who he believed were out of touch
with America. The Leffingwell–Gilbert prescription to combat deflation called
for cuts in government expenditure to bring wages down to world commodity
price levels. Somehow equilibrium would result. It was a muddled concoction.
Simultaneously they encouraged expanding open-market operations by the
Federal Reserve. The Morgan partners remained insistent that the global crisis
required international remedies, leading them to fruitless wrangling over war
debts and reparation. Any thought that the Morgan partners were Keynesians
avant la lettre should be discarded. Nevertheless, while the Morgan posture was
contorted, it was not idle. Though shackled by what Barry Eichengreen has
called “golden fetters,” the Morgan partners cast these off before most on Wall
Street.10 Distressed at the savagery of the banking crisis of the opening months
of 1933, the Morgan partners abandoned their long-standing belief in the gold
standard, having concluded that its preservation was inimical to capitalism’s
survival. This was a step that a lame-duck Hoover could not countenance. While
the Morgan partners were alive from 1931 to the depredations of the Depression
and developed a plausible explanation for what underpinned it, they were unable
to translate insight into action, contributing to the banking community’s
ineffectiveness in the face of economic dislocation.
The coming of the New Deal changed the Morgan role in American
capitalism. Before March 1933, contemporaries considered J.P. Morgan & Co. as
one of the centres of capitalist power in the United States. After 1933, as
Chapters 6, 7, and 8 suggest, this assumption was questioned in an America
Page 23
Page 23
struggling to escape the Depression. J.P. Morgan & Co. still mattered but more
as a symbol than as an institution blazing the American capitalist path. In his
ringing inaugural peroration in March 1933, one of the most famous of the
twentieth century, Roosevelt declaimed that Americans had nothing to fear but
fear itself. He told his listeners that “the money changers have fled from their
high seats of the temple of our civilization,” that there would be “an end to
speculation with other people’s money,” and that there would be no return to the
“evils of the old order.” This raises the question of the relationship between the
Roosevelt administration and J.P. Morgan & Co., which is addressed in the sixth
chapter. Generally, historians have portrayed the dealings between the Roosevelt
administration and business as adversarial.11 American business, while
welcoming gratefully the energy and purpose of the New Deal in 1933, became
progressively disenchanted by it in operation, leading to a wholesale
abandonment of the Roosevelt program by 1935. J.P. Morgan & Co.’s
relationship with Roosevelt and with the New Deal was complex and not
reducible to this familiar narrative. Jack Morgan welcomed Roosevelt’s
announcement of the American departure from gold with a public expression of
support in April 1933. The Morgan partners were impressed by the boldness of
Roosevelt’s actions in 1933. Leffingwell was convinced that the president had
saved capitalism. However, the New Deal in action, drawing on its “Money
Trust” antecedents, promulgated a package of reform legislation that threatened
J.P. Morgan & Co. Glass–Steagall was the most consequential of these measures.
Confronted with the legislation, the Morgan partners sought its abolition, delay,
or revision. After Glass–Steagall, the chapter argues, the Morgan partners
became more insular, more parochial, and less concerned about the crisis of
capitalism as they worried about their bank. Despite this, though the Morgan
partners were opposed to much of the New Deal legislation, which fractured
Page 24
Page 24
their initial admiration for the president, the Morgan relationship with the
Roosevelt administration did not rupture irretrievably. The firm did not lead or
follow much of American business into the camp of the unreconcilables in
1935–36. Contrary to what many Americans suspected, and Father Coughlin and
Huey Long proclaimed, J.P. Morgan & Co. was not arrayed with those who
preached against Roosevelt. Hatred existed, in the shape of Jack Morgan’s bile
toward the president and in the utterances of other partners, but there was also
Leffingwell and Parker Gilbert, Democrats who continued to champion
Roosevelt within Morgan counsels. In 1936, Marquis Childs argued that the
animosity of the wealthy toward the Roosevelt administration was such that
“they in effect resign[ed] from the United States.”12 The Morgan partners did
not do this, as the book demonstrates. They opposed Roosevelt’s domestic
agenda, often bitterly, but kept their fidelity to their idea of American
democracy, a commitment that meant ongoing engagement with American
economics and politics. Paradoxically that commitment helped to maintain the
trappings of Morgan power in a New Deal that had hollowed out Morgan
consequentiality.
Making this adjustment simpler was foreign policy. If before 1933 J.P.
Morgan & Co. influenced American foreign policy, after 1933 the Morgan
partners observed rather than made it. The outsized Morgan role in the
international relations of the 1920s had rested on the dominance of Britain and
France over European international relations, the centrality of economic and
financial questions in the processes of reconstruction, the availability of plentiful
American capital, and the willingness of the Harding and Coolidge
administrations to allow private banking interests a substantial role. By the time
that the World Economic Conference ended in disarray in the summer of 1933,
all of these had disappeared. Chapter 7 considers J.P. Morgan & Co. and
Germany, Italy, and Japan. Ominously, all were committed to disrupting the
Page 25
Page 25
international order in their favour. All three nations were important to the bank
in these years: Germany because of its efforts to end servicing of the Dawes and
Young Plan loans, Italy and Japan because they were Morgan clients. All three,
the chapter argues, were misunderstood by the Morgan partners. This
misappraisal speaks to the larger issue of how and why so many in the 1930s
misunderstood the imperatives driving Berlin, Rome, and Tokyo. The failure to
discern the radical nature of each of these regimes led the Corner to a blinkered,
cautious approach that opened J.P. Morgan & Co. to justified criticism. Recourse
to such a tack was made easier because it conformed with Washington’s foreign
policy. Between 1933 and 1937, as Chapter 7 suggests, the foundations for
Morgan support of Roosevelt’s foreign policy were laid, in part, in shared
attitudes toward the revisionist states. Concordance was given a fillip by the
lengthening shadow of World War I. From 1934 to 1936, Senator Gerald P. Nye
chaired hearings investigating the Munitions Industry. They devolved into a
debate on whether the United States had been inveigled into war in 1917. J.P.
Morgan & Co. was accused of having bamboozled the Wilson administration
into war. The White House could not block Nye, but nor did the Roosevelt
administration assist the senator in his exploration of J.P. Morgan & Co.
The last chapter unites the strands of domestic policy, the Morgan bank as a
business, and foreign policy. The New Deal was unable to translate its early
success in combatting the Depression into a permanent improvement in the
American condition. The suddenness of the slump of 1937–38 reawakened
worries that the darkest days of 1932–33 might return. Examining the reasons
for this state of affairs, scholars have pointed not just to the immaturity of the
existing fiscal mechanisms of the American state, Roosevelt’s own
conservatism, and the implausibility of a massive fiscal stimulus but also to the
failings of monetary policy apparent in the reformed Federal Reserve system
Page 26
Page 26
chaired by Marriner S. Eccles. Almost uniquely, Chapter 8 argues, Leffingwell
and Gilbert held that monetary policy was ignoring the ongoing threat of
deflation. Consulted by Eccles and by the secretary of the Treasury, Henry
Morgenthau Jr., the Morgan partners advised against any measures that might
choke the money supply. That counsel was ignored. It should not be construed
from this that the Morgan partners were far-sighted. Rather, it was a reflection of
their certainty, born in 1931, that deflation was the true enemy. Evidence for this
contention is found in the Morgan palliatives on fiscal policy. They were
conventional, differing little from the orthodox nostrums of the day. The severity
of the economic contraction in 1937–38 led Roosevelt to sanction publicly and
privately Morgan intercession. While this spoke to the White House continuing
to believe in Morgan power, the outcome was, as the chapter argues, a hardening
of the chasm between the Morgan partners and Roosevelt on domestic policy. At
the same time, J.P. Morgan & Co. was struggling as a commercial, deposit bank.
Divorced from its investment arm, constituted as Morgan Stanley in September
1935, the partners retreated into a state of near inactivity. Their conservatism in
banking practice was so acute by 1938 that they were doing little more than
amassing deposits fleeing the fear of war in Europe. The Depression and the
New Deal had worked against the partnership, but, as the chapter argues, so too
did the decisions by the partners. Hoping for a change of government that would
overturn Glass–Steagall, the consequence, when this did not occur, was that the
partners were forced in 1939–40 to embrace incorporation in 1940 as the only
avenue forward.
Overlapping was the fear of war. Many Americans thought that J.P. Morgan
& Co. would drag the United States into a new war. As Chapter 8 shows, this
was far from the Morgan desire. Not only were the Morgan partners by the late
1930s bystanders in foreign policy rather than makers of it; they hewed to a
cautious course. Whole-heartedly sympathetic to Britain and France, the Morgan
Page 27
Page 27
partners viewed appeasement as admirable. For them, appeasement offered a
solution to European difficulties that would allow for a restoration of a liberal,
international trading order and would, with time, promote peace. Making
advocacy of this view simpler was Roosevelt’s endorsement of appeasement. A
great deal has been written about Roosevelt’s foreign policy, but the Morgan
partners were convinced that he intended to keep the United States neutral come
what may, while assisting London and Paris with as much economic aid as could
be extracted from Congress. This was a policy that the Morgan partners thought
wise. The Morgan partners clung to Roosevelt’s foreign policy. They believed in
it. As it transpired, the coming of World War II displaced capitalism’s crises of
the 1930s with a crisis of a different kind – the challenge of survival in a military
confrontation.
1 Josephine Young Case and Everett Needham Case, Owen D. Young and
American Enterprise, Boston: David R. Godine, 1982, is the standard
biography.
2 Everett N. Case, 28 February 1930, St. Lawrence University (SLU), Owen
D. Young papers (ODY), Box 976, Folder 2095; Morris Ernst to Leffingwell,
13 February 1940, Yale University Library (YUL), Russell C. Leffingwell MS
(RCL), Series I, Box 2, Folder 36.
3 Ron Chernow’s survey, The House of Morgan, New York: Atlantic Monthly
Press, 1990, devotes several chapters to the bank in the 1930s. Chernow’s
book is focused on Thomas W. Lamont in these years, a tendency rendered
understandable by the poor quality of the one biography of J.P. Morgan Jr. by
John Douglas Forbes, J.P. Morgan, Jr. 1867–1943, Charlottesville, VA:
University of Virginia Press, 1981. Edward Lamont’s study of his grandfather,
The Ambassador from Wall Street, Lanham, MD: Madison Books, 1994, has
Page 28
Page 28
driven home the impression of a bank that was more Lamont than Morgan in
the interwar period.
4 Sven Beckert, Empire of Cotton: A Global History, New York: Alfred A.
Knopf, 2014. Beckert is also co-chair of Harvard’s Program on the Study of
Capitalism. Another indication of renewed interest in capitalism was the
launch of the journal Capitalism: A Journal of History and Economics by the
University of Pennsylvania Press in 2020. Steve Fraser and Gary Gerstle,
“Introduction,” in Steve Fraser and Gary Gerstle, eds., Ruling America: A
History of Wealth and Power in a Democracy, Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press, 2005, pp. 1–26. Peter A. Hall and David Soskice, eds., The
Varieties of Capitalism: The Institutional Foundations of Comparative
Advantage, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2001.
5 The history of the bank before 1914 is served by Vincent Carosso, The
Morgans: Private International Bankers 1854–1913, Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press, 1987. Pierpont Morgan has been the subject of
many studies. The most recent full-length biography is Jean Strouse, Morgan:
American Financier, New York: Random House, 1999. Susie J. Pak,
Gentleman Bankers: The World of J.P. Morgan, Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press, 2013, is a fine study that covers the period 1900–29 in a
series of thematic chapters.
6 J.P. Morgan & Co. was the New York firm. It was also known as the Corner,
for its position at the corner of Wall Street and Broad, or as 23 Wall Street, its
formal address, or less precisely as the House of Morgan, which included
Drexel & Co. in Philadelphia, Morgan Grenfell, and Morgan & Cie. In this
book, J.P. Morgan & Co., the Corner, and 23 Wall Street all refer to the New
York partnership.
7 Charles R. Morris, A Rabble of Dead Money: The Great Crash and the
Global Depression, 1929–1939, New York: Public Affairs, 2017, is a recent
Page 29
Page 29
survey.
8 Harold James, The End of Globalization: Lessons from the Great
Depression, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2001, is one leading
study that has advanced this argument.
9 There is no overarching study of American banking from 1929 to 1933. The
most thorough account is Susan Estabrook Kennedy, The Banking Crisis of
1933, Lexington, KY: University of Kentucky Press, 1973. Kennedy suggests
that: “By protecting themselves rather than by helping others fight the
depression, bankers abdicated leadership in their communities and threw away
prestige with both hands. The same men who had claimed credit for prosperity
refused to accept responsibility for adversity and rejected the opportunity to
maintain confidence in themselves and their institutions … Throughout the
1920s and until 1931, the nation had looked to its bankers first to ensure
prosperity and then to lead others out of the depression; thereafter, however,
the bankers seemed scarcely able to help themselves. Loss of confidence in
the leaders of finance, moreover, made the depression harder to fight and
increased the burden on those left in command” (pp. 20–21).
10 Barry Eichengreen, Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great
Depression, 1919–1939, New York: Oxford University Press, 1992.
11 Patrick Reagan, “Business,” in William D. Pederson, ed., A Companion to
Franklin D. Roosevelt, Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell, 2011, pp. 186–205, is a
survey.
12 The article “They Hate Roosevelt” appeared in the May 1936 issue of
Harper’s. In expanded form it was republished as a pamphlet by the
Democratic National Committee for use in the 1936 presidential campaign. It
is reprinted in Frank Friedel, ed., The New Deal and the American People,
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1964, pp. 98–104.
Page 30
Page 30
1
“The Heart of Contemporary
Capitalism”
The Partners and Their Bank
◈
The co-partnership notice was sparse and the display advertisement tucked away
on page eleven of the Wall Street Journal on 1 January 1929 discreet. In fifteen
lines, J.P. Morgan & Co. announced that it had admitted five new partners:
Henry S. Morgan (Harry Morgan), Thomas S. Lamont, Henry P. Davison Jr.,
Thomas Newhall, and Edward Hopkinson Jr. All were becoming partners at J.P.
Morgan & Co. New York, Morgan Grenfell & Co. London, and Morgan & Cie.
Paris.1 Collectively these firms were known as the House of Morgan. The New
York Times was less circumspect. Under the banner “Sons of 3 Partners Enter
Morgan Firm,” the paper informed its readers that Morgan partnerships were
“the most coveted posts in Wall Street.” “It is doubtful,” the article commented,
“if in Wall Street equal responsibility has been placed before on three men all
under 31.” There were compensations, The Times hastened to add. Wall Street
reckoned that Morgan partners earned a minimum of $1,000,000 per annum.2
Serious-minded observers pointed to the attractions beyond lucre. The
Nation, on the occasion of the announcement of Dwight Morrow’s appointment
Page 31
Page 31
as ambassador to Mexico in 1927, remarked “[h]ardly any post to which the
President might appoint him could give Mr. Morrow power comparable to that
which he wields as a partner in the greatest international banking firm in the
world.”3 Some years later, the writer-cum-historian of contemporary American
society Frederick Lewis Allen echoed that verdict. He asserted that becoming a
J.P. Morgan & Co. partner was “as high a prize as a financier could hope for …
it was a place on the general staff of what the business world considered the
head-quarters of financial power.”4 Writing under his adopted name, Lewis
Corey, the left-wing intellectual Louis C. Fraina concurred. With a pedigree
honed by experience in the American Communist Party, Corey penned his 1930
study of the House of Morgan under the auspices of the Brookings Institution.
Deeply critical of the Morgan influence on American life, he distilled the
essence: The House of Morgan was “the heart of contemporary capitalism.”5
The frisson that rippled through Wall Street in the wake of the co-
partnership notice is thus understandable. The admission of new partners to the
leading bank on the Street was a notable event. The reaction of the New York
Times attested to the saying that men scanned their mail anxiously every
morning to see if a letter offering them a place at the Morgan bank had arrived.
In some Wall Street haunts, envy and irreverence coupled: Jack Morgan and his
partners were referred to as “Jesus Christ and the Twelve Apostles.”6
How had J.P. Morgan & Co. reached this eminence by 1929? How was it
organized and what kinds of businesses did it undertake? What of its partners
during the interwar years? Who were they, what did they do, and what did they
believe? Answers to these questions lay the foundations for understanding the
bank and its partners in the crisis years between 1929 and 1940. What follows
examines the history of the House of Morgan, its business, and its partners
before 1929. The contests of the 1930s did not take place in a void. They were
Page 32
Page 32
struggles in which the Morgan partners, their friends, and their foes were
conditioned by the preceding decades. The debates that swirled in the 1930s – on
how to respond to the Depression, on how to reshape American capitalism, on
how to deal with the looming threat of war – were inflected by the Morgan rise
to prominence well before 1929.
*****
In 1836, when Junius S. Morgan entered into business in a dry goods firm in
Hartford, Connecticut, the future eminence of the Morgan firms was remote.
Assisted by a bequest from his father, Junius Morgan parlayed his means into a
junior partnership with the Boston-based J.M. Beebe in 1851. The firm were
traders, financing the flourishing trade between Boston and entrepôts around the
world. It was, however, the connection of J.M. Beebe with the London-based
merchant bank George Peabody & Co. that proved pivotal. George Peabody,
aging, was searching for a dynamic, junior partner. He found Junius Morgan.
Junius Morgan moved to London in 1854, bringing his family in tow, including
his son, Pierpont Morgan. By the time Junius assumed full control of George
Peabody & Co. in 1864, renaming it J.S. Morgan & Co. that year, he was
established in the City, London’s financial marketplace. Pierpont Morgan, after a
three-year apprenticeship in London, returned to the United States in 1857,
entering Duncan, Sherman & Co., which at the time was the Peabody bank’s
New York correspondent. A short-lived J.P. Morgan & Co. followed, lasting
from 1862 to 1864, before Junius Morgan, uneasy at his son’s impulsive risk-
taking, insisted on a restructuring, bringing on board a more seasoned banker,
Charles H. Dabney. Dabney, Morgan & Co., soldiered on until 1871.7
Change arrived with Anthony Drexel. Drexel was the dominant force in
Philadelphia banking. His firm, Drexel & Co., had a New York affiliate as well
as a Paris house, which from 1868 was styled Drexel, Harjes & Cie., after the
Page 33
Page 33
managing partner, John H. Harjes. Drexel, who was looking for more effective
leadership in New York, had much to offer – a good reputation, a careful hand,
and a Paris connection. He also sought stronger links with the City of London.
When Drexel, who had done business with Junius Morgan, broached the notion
of an arrangement, the latter did not hesitate. The two orchestrated the formation
of a new firm in New York, Drexel, Morgan & Co. Pierpont Morgan, who would
helm the New York branch, was informed of the plans after the fact.8 Junius
Morgan’s death in 1890 left Pierpont Morgan as the senior partner in J.S.
Morgan & Co. in London. Soon thereafter, Anthony Drexel died, and his son
opted to withdraw from the business. A reorganization and renaming ensued:
Pierpont Morgan established J.P. Morgan & Co. in 1895 as the New York
partnership. Drexel & Co. continued in Philadelphia as an associated house, with
Edward T. Stotesbury as the new senior partner. From this time on, Philadelphia
and New York functioned independently. The Paris house was renamed Morgan,
Harjes & Cie.
The demands on Pierpont Morgan as the senior partner in New York and in
London were formidable, and he was determined to enlist his son and heir Jack
Morgan, teaching him the trade of a private merchant banker. From 1891 to
1898, Jack Morgan served an apprenticeship in Boston and then in New York.
Upon his father’s instructions, Jack Morgan was sent to London in 1898 to be a
partner in J.S. Morgan & Co. Jack Morgan was not only to act as Pierpont’s
lieutenant in London; he was directed to recruit new talent to J.S. Morgan &
Co.9 Edward C. Grenfell was duly brought into J.S. Morgan & Co. from Brown
Shipley & Co. in 1900, becoming a partner in 1904. In 1910, J.S. Morgan & Co.
was renamed Morgan Grenfell & Co. When Pierpont Morgan died in 1913, Jack
Morgan succeeded to the leadership of the House of Morgan.10
As the foregoing suggests, the connection between the United States and
Britain was at the heart of the Morgan identity. All three of the men, the
Page 34
Page 34
“Seniors” in Morgan parlance, who led the House of Morgan between 1864 and
1941 – Junius Morgan, Pierpont Morgan, and Jack Morgan – lived and worked
in London at some point in their careers. From the time that Junius Morgan
embarked for the city in 1854, the Morgan firms were linked indissolubly with
Britain. Vincent Carosso, who has carried out the closest study of the Morgan
banks, observed that “the House of Morgan, like the Barings, Hambros, and
Rothschilds, was and remained, both in spirit and in practice, a nineteenth-
century merchant bank.”11 More precisely, the model was the nineteenth-century
City of London merchant bank. Culturally this meant continuity from father to
son of the core values necessary for the merchant bank. The testimonies of
Pierpont Morgan in 1912 and of Jack Morgan in 1933 before congressional
committees were interchangeable as to what constituted these core values. Both
men insisted that trust, character, integrity, and reputation were paramount.
There was good reason for merchant bankers to insist on reputation and
character. Reputation functioned as a short-cut for assessing risk and overcoming
limited information about doing business.12 Those seeking to borrow always
knew more about the state of their business than those lending. This prompted
merchant bankers to develop sources of intelligence and to cultivate intimacy
with clients that enabled assessments of character to deputize for informational
lacunae. It was a practice that the Corner adhered to religiously. As Arthur M.
Schlesinger Jr. put it, “No banking house better represented the cult of character
than J.P. Morgan” in the interwar years.13
The transmission and inculcation of this ethos were amplified by, and
overlapped with, the decades in which the City of London extended and
consolidated its sway over international commerce and finance.14 The Morgan
partners identified the extension of the gold standard with prosperity, with the
City of London’s pre-eminence, and with sterling. Gold and sterling were the
Page 35
Page 35
foundations of the trade, free movement of capital, and labour that the Morgan
partners believed in fervently. Nor was this conviction diminished by the relative
decline of Britain as an economic power as the nineteenth century drew to a
close. As British industrial supremacy ebbed and then was surrendered to the
United States and Germany, London’s suzerainty over global commerce and
finance was unaffected. The intricate network of accepting houses, bill-brokers,
discount houses, jobbers, bankers, and the myriad others that constituted the City
was unmatched in its sophistication, making possible the international trade that
moved through the medium of the sterling bill of exchange. Powered by
international earnings in services and investments, British capital moved abroad
in torrential volumes.15
The single largest beneficiary of this capital flood was the United States.16
The House of Morgan was one of the conduits through which British capital
sluiced, to the advantage of British investors, American companies, and the
Morgan partners. Reinforcing London’s importance for J.P. Morgan & Co. was
the pre-war sectoral distribution of British capital in the United States. The bulk
of British money went into railroads.17 Railroads were especially important to
the House of Morgan. It was on the back of railroad investment, railroad
consolidation, and contests for the control of the railroads that Pierpont Morgan
extended Morgan authority.
The asymmetry born of the Anglo-American relationship and the
dominance of the City of London in international finance meant that, within the
House of Morgan, Morgan Grenfell was more important than the Paris house.18
Morgan & Cie., as it became in 1927 following the death of Herman Harjes in
1926, was not originally a Morgan firm, nor did successive Morgan seniors ever
live and work in Paris, though Pierpont Morgan and Jack Morgan were both
fluent in French and German. While France was second only to Britain as a
capital exporter before 1914, the direction of those flows was very different.
Page 36
Page 36
French capital was exported predominantly in Europe, most famously to tsarist
Russia.19 This reality, in conjunction with the fact that American multinationals
did not move into the broader European market en masse until after 1918, kept
the Paris house firmly behind London in the eyes of the New York partners.20
The senior partners in Paris after 1927, Bernard S. Carter and Nelson Dean Jay,
were American expatriates.21 In contrast, the named partner in London, Edward
C. Grenfell, was British and so too were the other resident partners in Morgan
Grenfell. Morgan & Cie. had fewer partners, generated less business, and
operated on a smaller scale than Morgan Grenfell.22 While Dean Jay and
“Bunny” Carter were respected in New York, their voices were not as influential
as those emanating from London. When the sterling crisis of 1931 transfixed J.P.
Morgan & Co., it did so in part because of the centrality of Britain and London
within the world view of the Morgan partners. They struggled to imagine a
world in which Britain was off gold; it was alien to their thinking. In contrast,
when France abandoned the gold standard in 1936, the reaction of the New York
partners was muted. It is true that much had changed in the intervening years,
but one thing had remained constant: France was less consequential to J.P.
Morgan & Co. than Britain.
*****
What kinds of business did J.P. Morgan & Co. do? Under Pierpont Morgan, the
bank had floated stock offerings, orchestrated mergers, and participated in high-
profile struggles for control of companies. Among the most famous of these
were the New York Central and Pennsylvania railroads in the 1880s, the
salvation of General Electric in 1893, the formation of U.S. Steel in 1901, and
the fight with Edward H. Harriman over the Northern Pacific railroad that same
year. “Morganization” became a well-known term, implying financial control
with more than a dash of looting. Pierpont Morgan was, in the eyes of critics, the
Page 37
Page 37
quintessential robber baron.23 On two occasions, in 1894–95 and again in the
panic of 1907, Pierpont Morgan played a significant role in quelling the financial
unrest roiling American financial markets. Pierpont Morgan imparted a tincture
to J.P. Morgan & Co. that coloured perceptions of the bank well after his death.
Greed, imperiousness, ruthlessness, these were the traits that lived in the
American public mind as Pierpont Morgan’s legacy. Yet, after the war, J.P.
Morgan & Co. was not Pierpont Morgan’s bank. Directed by Jack Morgan, J.P.
Morgan & Co. was less swashbuckling, less rambunctious. Jack Morgan was not
inclined to be the promoter. Fortune drew the distinction: in Pierpont Morgan’s
day, the bank was a promotion house; under Jack Morgan, it was a banking
house.24 Between 1913 and 1929, J.P. Morgan & Co. offered no common stocks
for sale, handling only bonds and preferred stocks. Bonds were not only safer;
they constituted a larger market than equities.
Not all changed. J.P. Morgan & Co. was a partnership from 1895 to 1940.
This status conferred cherished privacy, though it imposed limitations. Unlike a
limited liability corporation, partners were subject to unlimited personal liability.
Consequently, the bank operated with high levels of liquidity and did not make a
practice of retaining securities that it sold.25 As a firm, J.P. Morgan & Co. did
not engage in short-selling. Similarly, the bank did not engage in stock pools. A
separate code governed the partners’ private business. For their own accounts,
the partners could do as they wished, subject to applicable law; and, as the Stock
Exchange practices hearings in 1933 (often called the Pecora hearings after the
lead counsel, Ferdinand Pecora) revealed, some, though not all, partners sold
stocks short and participated in pools. The partners understood that they were
merchants – in the business of furnishing credit and buying and selling money.
As Lamont told Senator James Watson of Indiana in 1931, “our house, you see,
is not a bank in itself; it is really a house of merchants.”26 While J.P. Morgan &
Page 38
Page 38
Co. accepted deposits, it was barred from advertising for them. This was not
deemed an obstacle. An exchange between Pecora and Jack Morgan in 1933
attested to Morgan confidence:
M R .  P E C O R A . Mr. Morgan, is the name of the firm on any outer door of the
firm’s office?
M R .  M O R G A N . It is not on the outer door. It is on the inner door.
M R .  P E C O R A . Not visible from the street to the passer-by?
M R .  M O R G A N . No. Most of them know the address.
M R .  P E C O R A . You do not think the firm suffers any lack of prestige in the
banking world because it does not advertise itself to be bankers, do you?
M R .  M O R G A N . It does not seem to.27
The minimum deposit to open an account was $7,500. Prospective account
holders required an introduction, restricting further those who banked at the
Corner. Governments, corporations, and wealthy individuals had funds on
deposit with the firm. The interest rate paid on deposits was that paid by the New
York Clearing House. Harry Morgan estimated that J.P. Morgan & Co. had
approximately 1,500 accounts in the mid-1920s with deposits totalling roughly
$500 million.28 Deposits stood at slightly more than $562 million on 31
December 1927, before declining to $481 million on 31 December 1928.29
Between 1927 and 1932, thirty-eight corporations kept deposits in excess of $1
million in any year with the bank, with an additional eighty-three companies
maintaining more than $100,000 on deposit. Among the companies with more
than $1 million on deposit were such well-known firms as General Mills, ITT,
Montgomery Ward, and Standard Oil New Jersey. Less is known about
governmental and individual deposits, which remain opaque, though it is clear
Page 39
Page 39
that they were sizeable. Deposits also accrued from the firm’s role as a paying
agent for the coupons of various securities as well as its function as a custodian
overseeing sinking funds.30
Contrary to what is often assumed, the J.P. Morgan & Co. of the 1920s was
not primarily an investment bank. Rather, it was a general banking house.
Though the firm was an underwriter of corporate and governmental bonds, this
activity was the smaller part of what the bank did. Setting aside foreign
governmental issues, the bank was not a major player in the municipal bond
market, offering only a total of $160 million between January 1919 and May
1933.31 Harry Morgan thought that underwriting in the 1920s represented less
than 25 per cent of the firm’s earnings. He reckoned that about half of J.P.
Morgan & Co.’s business in the 1920s was general banking and foreign
exchange, with the residual half being corporate and governmental finance.32
Questioned in 1933, Jack Morgan told the Pecora Committee that “straight
banking” was the larger part of J.P. Morgan & Co. business.33 Insofar as its
general banking functions went, the bank accepted deposits, issued letters of
credit, acted as a transfer agent to handle dividends as well as coupon payments,
dealt in foreign exchange when clients requested, and, if asked, oversaw trading
on the stock exchange for its clients. The latter was described by Whitney as a
“very good bread and butter business.”34 For some clients, the bank provided
investment counsel. As a partnership, the bank could not act as a corporate
trustee, and it was not until late in the 1930s that steps were taken to create an
analogue to trust functions within the bank.35 Finally, the bank did not lend
money on real estate, a rule that may have reduced profits in the 1920s but
sheltered J.P. Morgan & Co. from plunging real estate values after 1929.
On the corporate finance side, the firm was fastidious in selecting its
clients. William A. Mitchell, who joined J.P. Morgan & Co. in 1925, eventually
Page 40
Page 40
becoming a partner in 1939, recalled in his memoirs that: “[w]e had been tossing
people down the front steps for years. Mr. Morgan didn’t really want to be
bothered very much with the commercial banking business.”36 Legacy business
in the railroad sector continued, and in the 1920s J.P. Morgan & Co. began a
fateful association with the Van Sweringen brothers of Cleveland, who were
amassing a railroad empire. At the Pecora hearings in May 1933, Whitney
provided a breakdown by category of Morgan offerings between January 1919
and May 1933 (Table 1.1).
Table 1.1 Breakdown of Morgan bond and preferred stock offerings between
January 1919 and May 1933.
Note. * Pecora Committee, Part I, 25 May 1933, pp. 223–25.
Occasionally, the bank engineered mergers or acquisitions. This was the
case with Marland Oil, a leading producer whose rapid expansion and
consequent money-losing tendencies fuelled a need for capital. Initially J.P.
Morgan & Co. loaned money to Marland, before replacing the founder, E.W.
Marland, with Daniel Moran as president in 1928. Subsequently, a complex
merger involving Marland, Prudential Refining, and Continental Oil was
consummated in 1929, the new company taking the name Continental Oil with
Moran at its head. Edward Lamont has pointed out that Marland Oil was the first
instance in which J.P. Morgan resorted to a practice later to become notorious –
the private placement of stock with wealthy investors, a device which was
repeated in 1927 with Johns-Manville Corporation.37 More routinely, J.P.
Morgan & Co. issued commercial credits on a considerable scale for its
Page 41
Page 41
corporate clients. Between 1927 and 1931, these totalled approximately $400
million, funding the export of various American goods, such as fruits, metals,
paper, automobiles, and machinery; paying for imports of commodities, like jute,
tea, and coffee; and making possible the financing of the storage of American
farm products.38
Foreign loans took two forms. One was the provision of short-term credits,
an example of which was the one-year $20 million revolving credit for the Bank
of Spain in August 1928. This particular line of credit was renewed in 1929 but
did not run the full term, as the Bank of Spain opted to cancel it in April 1930.39
More commonly, J.P. Morgan was a wholesaler of bonds, between 1920 and
1931 totalling slightly more than $1.8 billion, for a range of governments, from
the state to the municipal level. Slightly more than half of these loans were made
to European countries, with Argentina, Chile, Cuba, Japan, Taiwan, Canada and
Australia rounding out the picture.40 Regardless of their geographic dispersion,
the ability of J.P. Morgan & Co. to select the loans that they wanted to make
ensured that the repayment record was very good.41 This was a profitable and
prestigious business for the firm, though perhaps less remunerative than was
believed at the time. Lamont, testifying to the Senate Finance Committee
hearings on foreign securities in December 1931, remarked that any calculation
of “net profit” on such transactions was impossible as the bank did not break out
its costs on a per loan basis. Jack Morgan, in his formal statement to the Pecora
Committee on 9 June 1933, was more definitive, suggesting that on foreign and
domestic securities the bank had earned a “limited compensation averaging
approximately one half of one percent.”42 Using this figure, J.P. Morgan & Co.
reaped approximately $90 million between 1920 and 1931 on the $1.8 billion of
foreign bonds it issued, though it must be emphasized that this is a crude
calculation.
Page 42
Page 42
J.P. Morgan & Co. was active in the call money market. Call loans were
demand loans made on a short-term basis, usually daily and typically renewable,
with the loan being secured by stocks and bonds. The call loan market, as
Margaret Myers pointed out long ago, was a “peculiarly American product” that
was embedded in the history of the New York money market and distinguished
New York from London and Paris where no such market existed.43 The growth
of the call money market, in particular the pumping of funds into speculative
investment in the stock market through brokers, was one of the characteristic
phenomena of the late 1920s. Call loans were divided into three kinds: loans
made by the New York banks for their own account; loans made by the New
York banks to non–New York domestic banks; and loans made by the New York
banks for the “account of others.” Others might be corporations, whether
domestic or foreign, investment trusts, individuals, and foreign banks. Analysis
of the share of outstanding call loans in the run-up to the Crash indicates that
loans made for others, preponderantly corporations, were chiefly responsible for
the surge of money into the stock market.44 While J.P. Morgan & Co. made call
loans, they did not lend money for the account of others, believing it unwise – a
policy that was to demonstrate its soundness in October 1929. At the end of
1927, J.P. Morgan & Co. had slightly more than $54 million in call loans
outstanding. A year later, the figure had reached nearly $110 million. Brokers’
loans peaked at 2 per cent of total Morgan loans outstanding in 1929.45 How
much profit such activity yielded the firm is unknown, but the interest rate
spread in 1929 was rich.
On the eve of 1929, J.P. Morgan & Co. was in an enviable financial
position. The day that the co-partnership notice appeared, the company’s net
worth was more than $91 million, a considerable jump from the $71 million
recorded the year before. The firm was liquid, with more than $259 million
Page 43
Page 43
available in the form of cash, US government securities, and state and municipal
bonds against deposits of slightly more than $481 million.46 Its principal lines of
business were varied and performing well. The bank was not dependent upon
any one source of revenue for its success. Conservatively managed and
conservatively run, J.P. Morgan & Co. was flourishing.
*****
In the late 1920s, between 400 and 500 employees worked at the bank, which
was organized into departments: Auditing, Bond, Bond Redemption,
Bookkeeping, Collection, Coupon, Dividend, Foreign Exchange, Letter of
Credit, Library & Files, Loan, Mail, Paying Teller, Receiving Teller, Securities,
Statistical, Stock, Syndicate, Stock Transfer, and Vault. These departments were
overseen by long-serving staff members, few of whom have left any trace. Their
expertise and loyalty were critical to the smooth functioning of the bank. The
partners drew heavily upon the staff to compose letters, conduct research, draft
position papers, and proffer sage, informed assessments of frequently highly
complex questions. Much of what eventually made its way into the public realm
as Morgan opinion was the product of hard-working staff. Leonhard Keyes, the
chief clerk from 1913 to 1932, before his appointment as general manager in
1932, supervised the departments. During the Pecora hearings in 1933, Keyes
emerged from the obscurity that cloaked J.P. Morgan & Co. staff. Other
exceptions were Martin Egan, who assisted Lamont in handling public relations,
and his successor, R. Gordon Wasson, who had an idiosyncratic career,
culminating in his postwar eminence as a leading mycologist.47 The Morgan
partners, as of 31 December 1928, are listed in Table 1.2.
Table 1.2 Partners in J.P. Morgan & Co., 31 December 1928.
Page 44
Page 44
Note. TML, JPM, Box B.6, Folder 5 contains a chronological list of all of the
changes in the partnerships of the Morgan firms down to 1939.
Though nineteen names are listed, the number of active partners was
considerably smaller. Stotesbury, Lloyd, Gates, Newhall, and Hopkinson Jr. were
Drexel & Co. partners in Philadelphia and played no role in J.P. Morgan & Co.
in New York. By 1929, Stotesbury was retired and in 1930 Gates resigned to
become President of the University of Pennsylvania. Of the fourteen partners
resident in New York, Charles Steele was verging on inactive by 1929. The
death of his wife in 1932 was followed by his retirement from the firm in 1934,
though he continued to have the largest capital stake in the partnership until his
death in 1939. Thomas Cochran experienced health problems beginning in the
late 1920s that led to a progressive disengagement from the bank, though he
remained a partner until his death in 1936.48 One notable name is absent –
Dwight Morrow. Morrow, who had become a partner on 1 July 1914, withdrew
from the firm to become Ambassador to Mexico on 30 September 1927.
Page 45
Page 45
Morrow’s departure was a loss. Along with Lamont, he was the most
diplomatically inclined of the Morgan partners, had excellent contacts in
Republican circles, especially through his friendship with Calvin Coolidge, and
soon demonstrated an independence from his former partners that discomfited
and surprised them.49 Discounting Steele and Cochran, a dozen men constituted
the working J.P. Morgan & Co. partners in 1929.
The partners ran the bank. New partners, such as those made on 31
December 1928, were not required to furnish a capital stake when they entered
the firm. Their compensation derived from a combination of salary and profit
distribution. Salary and profit share were decided by Jack Morgan. In 1931, the
individual profit share of partners ranged from slightly less than 1 per cent for
the most junior partners to just under 25 per cent for Jack Morgan.50 Profit
distribution was independent of the size of the capital share that an individual
partner had in the firm. Through the 1930s, the largest capital shares in the bank
were held by Charles Steele and Thomas W. Lamont. Jack Morgan’s capital
trailed their totals substantially.51 The partners met daily, typically in the
morning, with all those who were present in New York attending. No minutes
were kept. Decisions were made on a consensus basis, requiring agreement on a
course of action. Any partner could block any piece of business by registering an
objection. One vote against meant that the firm did not pursue the matter.52 The
allocation of work followed a straightforward formula – the partner who had
raised the business was charged with shepherding it.53 Among themselves, the
partners accepted each other’s vouchsafe as binding. Questioned in 1938 in the
Securities and Exchange Commission hearings into the bankruptcy of Richard
Whitney & Co. occasioned by the fraud of Richard Whitney, the brother of
George Whitney, the Morgan partner Francis D. Bartow admitted that he had not
questioned extending a loan of $500,000 to Richard Whitney & Co. in the
summer of 1931. He testified that he had no idea whether Richard Whitney &
Page 46
Page 46
Co. had ever been audited, but he believed its affairs were sound, because “I had
the best authority in the world when his brother (George Whitney) told me” that
they were.54
Harry Morgan divided the partners into two categories, those who brought
new business into the bank and those who ran the bank. To a point this was a
reasonable description. Jack Morgan, Lamont, and Cochran (before his illness)
were in the first category. Whitney straddled this division, both bringing in new
business and running the bank. Whitney was the effective head of J.P. Morgan &
Co.’s domestic operations after 1929 even if he did not have the title. Bartow fell
clearly into Harry Morgan’s second category. He was responsible for the Loan
Department and functioned as the arbiter within the bank of the credit quality of
loans that were made. As he told the Securities Exchange Commission in 1938,
he had been given “direct responsibility for the portfolio of the office, including
the Loan Department and the management of the internal organization.”55 To
Bartow fell the task of economizing expenditures within the bank as the
Depression bit. One partner, Leffingwell, was hors catégorie, neither a generator
of new business nor responsible for running the bank. Leffingwell functioned as
J.P. Morgan & Co.’s internal economist and lawyer who also supervised
financial analyses of potential loans. Ordinarily he did not participate directly in
discussions with clients or governments, though he was an important shaper of
opinion outside the bank, notably through his friendship with the journalist
Walter Lippmann. Harold Stanley was a generalist. Arthur Anderson (railroads
and securities) and William Ewing (securities) had specific expertise, but they
were not restricted to those areas.56 Men such as Anderson, Bartow, and Ewing
were respected on the Street but were not seen as front-rank figures. They were
younger and in the 1920s newly minted as partners even if they had years of
banking experience behind them.
Page 47
Page 47
The policy of bringing sons into the firm was mixed in its success. Writing
in The Nation in 1939, Randolph Phillips identified partner recruitment as one
factor in what he argued had been the decline of J.P. Morgan & Co., noting that
“[t]he policy of making partners of the sons of partners has brought amiable men
but no brilliant minds into the firm.”57 Edward Lamont has suggested that
nepotism had its advantages, allowing the bank to make further inroads into
well-connected circles, while furnishing individuals who could, by virtue of their
socio-economic background, represent J.P. Morgan & Co. on corporate boards
with aplomb.58 Less charitably, neither Junius S. Morgan III (hereafter Junius
Morgan) nor Harry P. Davison nor Thomas S. Lamont were as able as their
fathers. Harry Morgan was the most competent of the epigone, but he would
leave J.P. Morgan & Co. in 1935 to form Morgan, Stanley, taking with him
Harold Stanley, arguably the most talented of the younger partners. Beyond the
Corner, Wall Street believed with some justification that J.P. Morgan & Co.’s
strength resided in its senior partners: Jack Morgan, Lamont, Leffingwell, and
Whitney.
Jack Morgan was the undisputed senior (see Figure 1.1). The impression
persists that he was an ornamental head, the lesser son of a greater father, who
relied upon the talents of his partners. This view has a long pedigree. The
Mirrors of Wall Street noted in 1933 that “many people had become accustomed
to think of [Jack Morgan] as something of a financial nonentity – living on the
family name.”59 Nothing could have been further from the truth. As a banker,
Jack Morgan knew his craft, having received an excellent training in New York
and London. He cared about the prestige, the reputation, and the integrity of the
House of Morgan.60 B.C. Forbes, the business writer and gadfly, quoted a Wall
Street contemporary: “I would trust Jack Morgan behind my back as far as any
man living … I don’t think any amount of money, which would be a small
Page 48
Page 48
consideration, or any amount of prestige, which would be a strong consideration,
would for a moment tempt him to do what he knew would be unfair or unjust.”
A decade later, a jaundiced portrait in the American Mercury conceded that Jack
Morgan was deemed trustworthy by Wall Street.61
Figure 1.1 Jack Morgan on board ship, 1933.
Imagno/Hulton Archive/Getty Images.
Among Jack Morgan’s partners, there was never any question of either his
probity or his command. Mitchell, after remarking that he never would have left
J.P. Morgan & Co. had Jack Morgan lived, said: “He was a most remarkable
person in every respect … he didn’t want to be bothered with details at all, but
his judgment was unusually good on nearly anything – ethically, particularly. He
Page 49
Page 49
had the highest ethics.” For Whitney, “he was never given credit, because he
was shy, but he kept that bunch of primadonnas working … he was the
unquestioned boss and there was never any argument about it … He wasn’t a
buccaneer like his father, but he was a hell of a guy.”62 Jack Morgan’s authority
was buttressed by the J.P. Morgan & Co. partnership agreement, which reserved
decisions upon all matters governing the partners, such as the distribution of
profits, to his discretion. The partnership agreement was so commanding that
John Marrinan, an advisor on Pecora’s team investigating J.P. Morgan & Co.,
advanced the notion that the partners were more akin to employees.63 Jack
Morgan’s power, though real, was not exercised in an authoritarian manner. He
preferred to operate consensually, sounding his partners on possible courses of
action and relying on their skills and knowledge rather than dictating what
should be done.
Jack Morgan was reserved, loath to be in the limelight. A nineteenth-
century man, believing in the merits of minimal government interference, and
imbued with a hierarchical understanding of the world, he lamented the spread
of universal suffrage.64 Deeply religious, and well versed in the Bible, he was a
major benefactor of American Episcopalianism. His political judgments, despite
Mitchell’s encomium, were at times sophomoric. Travelling in Italy in 1922, he
wrote his classmate Joseph Grew to voice his enthusiasm about the “high-class
revolution” fascism represented.65 In fairness to Jack Morgan, as John Diggins
has shown, many Americans were enamoured with Benito Mussolini and his
Fascists in the 1920s, among them Lamont.66
At greatest ease in Britain, Jack Morgan gravitated naturally to its class-
dominated politics, finding close allies and friends. Not enough attention has
been paid to Jack Morgan’s excellent relationships with the City, the Bank of
England, the Conservative party, and the Court in the 1920s and 1930s.
Page 50
Page 50
Ferdinand Kuhn Jr., writing in the New York Times in 1935, recognized this:
“There are few Americans whose views carry so much weight in Conservative
and business circles here as Mr. Morgan.”67 Throughout the interwar years, Jack
Morgan would spend three to four months abroad each year, with a portion of
this time, or often all of it, in Britain. While critics might sneer that Jack Morgan
still thought that London was the centre of the world, its centrality for J.P.
Morgan & Co. was unquestioned. Given that the City of London continued to
play a leading role in international finance between 1929 and 1940, the Morgan
identification with Britain was understandable.68
Jack Morgan was the confidant of Montagu Norman, the governor of the
Bank of England from 1920 to 1944, and the Conservative Stanley Baldwin, the
leading light in British politics between 1924 and 1937. Lord Revelstoke, the
head of Barings, thought Jack Morgan “a great, big, large-hearted, generous man
w/o many personal antipathies, with a character that is remarkable for straight-
dealing,” a judgment echoed by Sir Charles Addis of the Hong Kong and
Shanghai Banking Corporation, who described Jack Morgan as “a great
personality and a big man in outlook as well as in bulk.”69 Grenfell’s position as
a member of the Court of Directors of the Bank of England from 1905 to 1940,
his standing as the Tory MP for the City of London from 1922 to 1935, and his
subsequent elevation to the peerage as Lord St. Just in 1935 cemented Jack
Morgan’s influence in London. In the crisis years of the 1930s, Jack Morgan, not
Lamont, was the first point of call for British politicians and bankers.
There is a stark contrast between Jack Morgan’s integration into the
financial and political circles in Britain and his lack thereof in the United States.
Contemporaries remarked how little known Jack Morgan was on Wall Street. He
was a figure of legend rather than of presence to the denizens of the financial
community. After Benjamin Strong – the governor of the Federal Reserve Bank
Page 51
Page 51
of New York (FRBNY), the dominant figure in the post-1918 Federal Reserve
system, and a man close to Jack Morgan – died in the fall of 1928, Jack
Morgan’s personal tie to the Federal Reserve system was severed. Politically,
Jack Morgan had no comparable access to or accord with Calvin Coolidge,
Herbert Hoover or Andrew Mellon, let alone Roosevelt, to match his ties in
Britain. Republican reflexively in his domestic politics, Jack Morgan became
more rigid as he aged. Lacking mental flexibility, he was not well-equipped to
navigate the challenges that manifested after 1929. From the mid-1930s, he was
less engaged with J.P. Morgan & Co. Nevertheless, all major decisions required
his sanction throughout the 1930s.
His partner, Thomas W. Lamont, was a man of a different stamp (see Figure
1.2). Lamont had made his way rapidly from his boyhood in rural New York to
Andover and Harvard. He was industrious, bright, ambitious, and charming.70
After a stint as a journalist, Lamont revitalized what became Lamont, Corliss
and Company, an advertising firm, before coming to the attention of Henry P.
Davison. It was Davison who recruited Lamont to the newly established Bankers
Trust and it was Davison who brought Lamont into J.P. Morgan & Co. Widely
seen in the interwar years as the real brains within the bank, Lamont, with his
fondness for public fora, his love of the social whirl, and his extraordinary
facility for making and retaining friends, was the natural spokesman for J.P.
Morgan & Co.71 With his background in the newspaper business, Lamont was
attuned to its pulse. Assisted by staff, he devoted astonishing amounts of time
and ink to caress, counter, and cultivate reporters and newspaper proprietors
alike. Lamont’s involvement in founding the Council on Foreign Relations, and
in supporting financially its journal Foreign Affairs, was an example of this
imperative and reflected twin aims: his deep-seated interest in international
relations and his desire to ensure that J.P. Morgan & Co. was treated fairly.
Reading his correspondence, the depth of Lamont’s feeling for J.P. Morgan &
Page 52
Page 52
Co. shines through. He was partisan, fiercely proud of J.P. Morgan & Co., and
was unwilling or unable to concede that the bank or its partners had ever
transgressed.
Figure 1.2 Thomas W. Lamont, George Whitney, and Jack Morgan during the
Pecora hearings, 1933.
Heritage Images/Hulton Archive/Getty Images.
Lamont, like Jack Morgan, evinced a “lifelong Anglophilia.”72 He travelled
regularly to Britain, though his stays were never as extended as Jack Morgan’s.
Unlike Morgan, his Anglophilia was qualified. Following his experience at the
Paris Peace talks in 1919, Lamont expressed exasperation with the British
stance, which he echoed nearly twenty years later in 1936 when he wrote his son
Thomas S. Lamont: “With all their delightful qualities, the British are the most
go-getting and nationalistic people in the world. They don’t grind their own axe
half the time, but 24 hours a day.”73 Asperity aside, Lamont believed in ongoing
Anglo-American friendship as axiomatic for global prosperity. He favoured the
notion of an Anglo-American alliance in the wake of World War I, as Priscilla
Page 53
Page 53
Roberts has shown.74 It was an outlook that married seamlessly with Jack
Morgan and the House of Morgan. While Lamont shared Jack Morgan’s affinity
for Britain, his politics were less defined. His friends in Britain were more
varied, less Conservative and less High Church. In the second half of the 1930s,
Lamont found common cause with pro-appeasement circles centred around the
Cliveden set.
Though Lamont was a Republican, in the eyes of his son, Corliss Lamont,
he was a “liberal conservative.”75 He voted Democrat in the 1920 presidential
election, animated by his anger at Republican foot-dragging on the issue of the
Versailles treaty and membership in the League of Nations. Thereafter his ballot
was reliably Republican. Lamont cared more about power and influence and less
about ideological identification. This characteristic, coupled with his amiability,
allowed Lamont to try to work with Hoover and Roosevelt. Fortune described
Lamont in 1939 as someone who “[u]nlike many a rich man … has seen too
much and known too much to be shocked by the thought of change.”76 B.C.
Forbes, writing in 1930, thought that there were two sides to Lamont – a hard-
driving, pragmatic banker that the Street respected but did not love and the
private Lamont known to his friends, who was much more sympathetic,
generous, and understanding.77 As Lamont’s New York Times obituary remarked
in 1948, “Mr. Lamont was a man who hated to see a friendship come to an
end.”78
Not all were enamoured. Stuart M. Crocker, a confidant of Owen D. Young,
who met Lamont at the Dawes Plan talks in 1924 and saw a great deal of him
during the Young Plan negotiations in 1929, was a sceptic, recording in his diary
“you have your fingers crossed on him, because he [Lamont] is so damned
diplomatic that you never know just where you stand with him.” Crocker much
preferred Jack Morgan’s bluntness. The portrait of Lamont sketched in The
Page 54
Page 54
Mirrors of Wall Street (1933) was scathing, decrying him as a man driven by a
blind admiration for Pierpont Morgan. Much kinder to Jack Morgan, The
Mirrors was dyspeptic in its assessment of Lamont, dismissing his activities at
home and abroad as froth. Frederick Lewis Allen, who conferred with Lamont
while he was writing The Lords of Creation, told his sister “[I] would like T.W.
Lamont if I really trusted him, which I don’t.”79 Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.
believed that Lamont had fallen prey to his own rhetoric, swallowing the line
that a New Era had arrived in the 1920s.80 While this may go too far, Lamont’s
brilliance was occluded by congenital optimism.
As a banker, Lamont admitted that he was not much of one. Banking was a
means to an end. In a 1942 letter, Lamont put it thus, “I have never been greatly
interested in banking … My interests, as you well know, have long been outside
the purely routine channels of banking about which I confessedly don’t know
very much.”81 Caring most about what banking could accomplish, Lamont spent
his time primarily on politics, diplomacy, and international relations. His
acknowledged banking deficiencies were amplified by an uncertain grasp of
economics. This meant that Lamont relied upon the expert counsel of staff and
his partners, in particular Leffingwell and, after 1931, Parker Gilbert, for the
economic advice that streamed forth in letters and speeches under his name.
Though he sought counsel frequently on economic matters, Lamont did not
always take it. His habitual optimism could distort the advice that he received,
particularly from Leffingwell whose outlook tended to be more pessimistic.
Leffingwell was Lamont’s closest friend among the partners (see Figure
1.3). He was by training a lawyer, graduating from Columbia Law School in
1902 whereupon he joined Guthrie, Cravath & Henderson. Made a partner in
1907, he was wooed to the US Treasury as Assistant Secretary in 1917. He
served first under William Gibbs McAdoo and then from January 1919 under
Page 55
Page 55
Carter Glass until 1920, when he left to rejoin his old law firm, which was
renamed Cravath, Henderson, Leffingwell & de Gersdorff.82 Three years later he
became a partner in J.P. Morgan & Co.83 In the 1920s, Leffingwell was the
paradigm of an orthodox, conservative economic thinker, believing deeply in the
gold standard, championing balanced budgets, and disparaging of what he
labelled derisively “managed money.” His time at the Treasury married with this
perspective to inform his understanding of the months following the Crash in
1929. While at the Treasury, the sharp economic contraction in the United States
in 1920–21 was occasioned in part by a Treasury effort to stamp out inflation,
which had reached more than 18 per cent in 1918 and stood at nearly 14 per cent
in 1919. Under Treasury pressure, interest rates were raised markedly, to 7 per
cent.84 Whether or not this prescription was responsible for the recovery that
ensued in the United States remains a matter of debate. For Leffingwell, the
lesson was clear. Reliving this episode years later, in April 1929, he told Glass
that he regarded deflationary Treasury policy as laying the foundations for
prosperity after 1921. He concluded robustly, “I apologize for nothing. I am very
proud of it all.”85 Given that Leffingwell’s economic views infused J.P. Morgan
& Co., it is not surprising that the initial reaction from the Corner to the Crash in
1929 was a sense of déjà vu. Short-term deflation, while painful, was a necessary
medication that would serve as a palliative corrective. Such views were not
unique. Famously, Andrew Mellon thought along similar lines.86
Page 56
Page 56
Figure 1.3 Junius S. Morgan, Jack Morgan, Harold Stanley, and Russell C.
Leffingwell at the Pecora hearings.
Charles Hoff/New York Daily News/Getty Images.
Leffingwell was a Democrat amidst a phalanx of Republican Morgan
partners. He retained a marked affection and respect for the Democratic Senator
Carter Glass, his mentor at the Treasury. Glass, one of the architects of the
Federal Reserve system as a congressman, was appointed to the Senate to fill the
vacancy left by the death of Virginia’s senior senator in 1920. A senator until
1946, he soon became acknowledged by all, including himself, as the leading
expert in the Senate on financial and economic matters. Glass and Leffingwell
were close, and while the two men often disagreed, their differences did not
affect their friendship. While Glass was an uncertain ally of the New Deal, he
proved, as the 1930s wore on, to be reliably hostile to it. More than Glass,
Leffingwell was willing to countenance some of what orthodox economists
regarded as the New Deal’s heresies. As the deflationary grind of the early 1930s
milled more finely, Leffingwell began to consider previously unmentionable
Page 57
Page 57
notions. This shift was to lead him in 1933 to embrace Roosevelt’s decision to
abandon gold.
Leffingwell’s internationalism was less bred in the bone than either Jack
Morgan or Lamont. He did not have their experience of travelling and living
abroad. During the discussions in 1929 surrounding what would become the
Bank for International Settlements, Leffingwell remarked: “What is an
international bank? When people talk about us as international bankers we say
we are not, that we are American bankers.”87 This distinction hinted at
Leffingwell’s occasional apostasy as tensions mounted internationally after
1929. Leffingwell periodically voiced anti-French sentiments that were never
recanted. His views on Britain were also at times conditional, though never
strident enough to challenge Jack Morgan and the dominant ethos of the House
of Morgan. He was contemptuous of the League of Nations, seeing in it a body
of naïve do-gooders whose activities imperilled peace as much as foolish notions
of neutrality did.88 At the same time, Leffingwell remained committed to an
international trading and financial order free of the obstacles imposed by
politics.
Leffingwell was a forceful personality. Those who worked with him at the
Carnegie Corporation, on whose board Leffingwell sat for decades, make this
apparent. Frederick Osborn, a critic of Leffingwell and J.P. Morgan, described
Leffingwell as “a man of magnificent character and very charming personal
characteristics. He had strong personal views, he was not easily swayed, and he
expressed his views very strongly to the board and took it that they were going
to be followed by the board.” James Perkins echoed Osborn: “He could be a
warm man, but he could also be a very ruthless man. He was a tough chairman.
He ran it.” For Alger Hiss, Leffingwell “was very intellectually impressive. He
was an extraordinary man.”89 Leffingwell was known for writing copiously and
Page 58
Page 58
speaking likewise, and for being circumspect in his public statements, yet in
private he was frequently immoderate and savage. His correspondence with
Lamont was frank – startlingly so – biting, and vituperative in condemnation.
Like Lamont and Jack Morgan, Leffingwell was animated by a conviction in the
fundamental propriety of J.P. Morgan & Co. and its works. Like them, he
believed deeply that American liberal democratic capitalism had benefited from
the Morgan touch.
Leffingwell shared with Lamont, and to some degree Jack Morgan, an
aversion to the “detail of the banking business.”90 Thus lies a paradox: on the
eve of 1929, the three most senior partners – Jack Morgan, Lamont, and
Leffingwell – were bankers whose interest in banking was qualified. Fortunately,
Whitney was a traditional banker (see Figure 1.2). John T. Flynn, a strident critic
of J.P. Morgan & Co., considered Whitney to be the ablest of the Morgan
partners, its “organizing brains” and a man who was much brighter than his
brother, Richard, a leading figure on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).91
Whitney went to Groton and then Harvard where he was a classmate of Franklin
D. Roosevelt’s. As Whitney recalled, “I never got on with the President.” From
Harvard, he entered Kidder, Peabody, before moving on to Redman & Co. and
Markoe, Morgan & Whitney, firms that specialized in retailing securities. In
1915, he was brought into J.P. Morgan & Co. through the influence of his father-
in-law, Robert Bacon, who had been a Morgan partner and remained close to
Harry P. Davison. Elevated to partner on 31 December 1919, Whitney was
concerned primarily, though not exclusively, with selling securities. It was
Whitney who oversaw much of the groundwork of organizing syndicates to
distribute the bonds that were the staple of J.P. Morgan’s investment work during
the 1920s. As he recalled, Whitney had nothing to do with the negotiations that
produced the Dawes and later Young Plan loans; what he did was sell the
Page 59
Page 59
bonds.92 By the late 1920s, because of Cochran’s health problems, Whitney
helmed the marketing of securities for J.P. Morgan & Co. Highly regarded on
Wall Street, Whitney’s Republicanism was not hidden and his combativeness
when quizzed by investigators during the 1930s was marked. Pecora called
Whitney the “most mendacious” and “most evasive” of the Morgan partners
who appeared before his committee in 1933.93 Within the bank, the appreciation
was quite different. His loyalty to the firm was unquestioned, and his embrace of
its culture whole-hearted. Whitney was well regarded and deemed sound and
capable.
The partners junior to Whitney – Anderson, Bartow, Ewing, Stanley, and
the sons Davison, Thomas S. Lamont, and Junius Morgan– have left fewer traces
(see Figures 1.4–1.6).94 John Brooks’ gibe in Once in Golconda, his lively 1969
account of Wall Street during the interwar years, that “the partners were
extensions of and adornments to J.P. Morgan’s personality,” Anglophile,
Republican, Social Register Protestants who were “as much a physical as a
social type, with a kinship more primitive than social background or like-
mindedness,” glistens rather than illuminates.95 A more recent assessment has
been provided by Susie J. Pak.96 While Pak’s fine study contextualizes the
partners and their networks, there remains a challenge in understanding the
dynamics of J.P. Morgan & Co. There was debate, discussion, and difference.
Yet internal disputes were never conveyed externally, which masked the extent
to which the partners disagreed with the policies pursued by Washington,
especially during the Hoover administration.
Page 60
Page 60
Figure 1.4 Thomas S. Lamont at the Pecora hearings, 1933.
Bettmann/Getty Images.
Figure 1.5 Arthur Anderson at the Wheeler Committee hearings, 1936.
Harris & Ewing Collection, Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs
Division, LC-DIG-hec-21864.
Page 61
Page 61
Figure 1.6 One former J.P. Morgan & Co. partner and two J.P. Morgan & Co.
partners at the Temporary National Economic Committee hearings, 1939.
From left: Harold Stanley, George Whitney, and Russell C. Leffingwell.
Harris & Ewing Collection, Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs
Division, LC-DIG-hec-27848.
The Morgan rule never to comment publicly reinforced the outward
impression of a cautious, sober conservatism typifying the private merchant
bank. Discretion was understandable. Sailing to Europe on the SS Olympic in
July 1926, Cochran gave an interview to a reporter for the Wall Street Journal in
which he touted General Motors’ prospects. The result, as the Journal trumpeted
on 3 August in its Market Comment column was, “General Motors in High:
Stock rushes upward in sensational fashion on Cochran interview – Whole
Market Buoyant.” Brooks, in Once in Golconda, would point to this interview as
the catalyst for the subsequent market climb of the late 1920s.97 While few
historians would concur, the reaction to Cochran’s off-hand remarks attested to
Page 62
Page 62
the solemnity with which the financial community treated Morgan utterances,
suggesting how weighty the Corner was in the age of Babbitt.
1 The co-partnership notice can be found in the Wall Street Journal, 1 January
1929, p. 11.
2 New York Times, 1 January 1929, p. 18.
3 “From Morgan’s Up,” The Nation, vol. 125, no. 3248, 5 October 1927, p.
327.
4 Frederick Lewis Allen, The Lords of Creation, New York: Harper Brothers,
1935. Reprint: Quandrangle Books 1966, p. 344.
5 Lewis Corey, The House of Morgan, New York: G. Howard Watt, 1930.
Reprint: New York: AMS, 1969, p. 449.
6 W.M. Walker, “J.P. The Younger,” American Mercury, vol. 40, no. 42, June
1927, p. 133.
7 Carosso, The Morgans: Private International Bankers, is authoritative. To
this should be added Chernow, The House of Morgan, pp. 3–35.
8 Dan Rottenberg, The Man Who Made Wall Street: Anthony Drexel and the
Rise of Modern Finance, Philadelphia, PA: University of Pennsylvania Press,
2001, pp. 94–99.
9 Forbes, J.P. Morgan, Jr. 1867–1943, pp. 30–31.
10 In addition to the works noted thus far, for the early history of the House of
Morgan, see Longstreet Hinton, John E. Meyer Jr., and Thomas Rodd, Some
Comments about the Morgan Bank, New York: Morgan Guaranty Trust
Company, 1979, reprinted 1985.
Page 63
Page 63
11 Vincent P. Carosso, “The Morgan Houses: The Seniors, Their Partners, and
Their Aides,” in Joseph R. Freseand Jacob Judd, eds., American
Industrialization, Economic Expansion and the Law, Tarrytown, NY: Sleepy
Hollow Press, 1981, p. 5. Stanley Chapman, The Rise of Merchant Banking,
London: George Allen & Unwin, 1984 is a good survey.
12 Monika Pohle Fraser, “Personal and Impersonal Exchange. The Role of
Reputation in Banking: Some Evidence from Nineteenth and Early Twentieth
Century Banks’ Archives,” in Philip L. Cottrell, Evan Lange, and Ulf Olsson,
eds., Centres and Peripheries in Banking: The Historical Development of
Financial Markets, Ashgate: Aldershot, 2007, pp. 177–95.
13 Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., The Crisis of the Old Order, 1919–1933, Boston:
Houghton Mifflin Company, 1957, p. 56.
14 For a sweeping account of the City, see the first two volumes of The City of
London by David Kynaston: The City of London, Vol. 1: A World of Its Own
1815–1890 and The City of London, Vol. 2: Golden Years, 1890–1914,
London: Pimlico, 1995.
15 Michael Obstfeld and Alan M. Taylor, Global Capital Markets: Integration,
Crisis, and Growth, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2004, p. 60.
16 Herbert Feis placed the total British investment in the United States at
£754.6 million (approximately $3,720 million) in 1914. Cleona Lewis,
working with different data sets, arrived at a figure of $4,250 million in July
1914. Herbert Feis, Europe: The World’s Banker, 1870–1914, New Haven,
CT: Yale University Press, 1930. See the reprint (New York: W.W. Norton,
1965, pp. 23) for the figure of £754.6 million, which I have translated into US
dollars based on the EH.Net database exchange rate of $4.93 per pound. For
the total British investment in the United States, see Cleona Lewis, America’s
Page 64
Page 64
Stake in International Investments, Washington, DC: Brookings Institution,
1938, p. 546.
17 Feis, The World’s Banker, pp. 27–28. Lewis, America’s Stake, p. 546; for
her remarks on British investments in US railroads, see pp. 36–41. Ronald
Findlay and Kevin O’Rourke, Power and Plenty: Trade, War, and the World
Economy in the Second Millennium, Princeton, NJ: Princeton University
Press, 2007, p. 409.
18 Youssef Cassis and Eric Bussières, eds., London and Paris As International
Financial Centres in the Twentieth Century, Oxford: Oxford University Press,
2005, is a comparative study.
19 The standard works on French capital exports include René Girault,
Emprunts russes et investissements français en Russie 1887–1914, Paris:
Librairie Armand Colin, 1973, to which should be added Jennifer Siegel, For
Peace and Money: French and British Finance in the Service of Tsars and
Commissars, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014. See also, Maurice Levy-
Leboyer, “La capacité financière de la France au début du vingtième siècle,”
in Maurice Levy-Leboyer, ed., La position internationale de la France, Paris:
École des hautes études en sciences sociales, 1977.
20 Mira Wilkins, The Maturing of Multinational Enterprise: American
Business Abroad, 1914–1970, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press,
1974. Wilkins has contributed a chapter to Hubert Bonin and Ferry de Goey,
eds., American Firms in Europe 1880–1980, Geneva: Librairie Droz, 2009
that contains several pertinent essays.
21 There is little on the history of Morgan & Cie. H.O. Loderhose, A History
of Morgan, Harjes et Cie, 1872–1932, can be found in The Morgan Library
(TML), J.P. Morgan Jr. papers (JPM), Box 116. There is also a history of
Morgan & Cie. written by Nelson Dean Jay in the 1960s. A copy is held in the
Page 65
Page 65
Nelson Dean Jay papers (NDJ) at Knox College (KC). The collection is
uncatalogued presently.
22 On Morgan Grenfell and its history, see Kathleen Burk, Morgan Grenfell
1838–1988, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1989.
23 A classic account is Matthew Josephson, The Robber Barons, first
published in 1934 and dedicated to Charles and Mary Beard.
24 “Mister Morgan,” Fortune, August 1933, vol. 8, p. 84.
25 The bank’s liquidity ratios stood at 83 per cent in 1927, 82 per cent in 1928,
and 76 per cent in 1929. Baker Library (BL), Thomas W. Lamont papers
(TWL), Series V, Box 212, Folder 11.
26 United States Senate Committee on Finance, Sale of Foreign Bonds or
Securities in the United States, 72nd Congress, 1st session, Part 1, 18
December 1931, Washington, DC: Government Printing Office, 1932, p. 20.
27 Hearings before the Sub-Committee of the United States Senate Committee
on Banking and Currency, Stock Exchange Practices (hereafter Pecora
Committee), 73rd Congress, 1st session, Part 1, 24 May 1933, United States.
Washington, DC: Government Printing Office, 1933, p. 105.
28 Vincent Carosso interview with Henry (Harry) S. Morgan, 4 December
1975, TML, Carosso Papers (CP), Box 8, Henry S. Morgan (interviews).
29 See Appendix 1, J.P. Morgan & Co., Consolidated Statement of Condition,
1927–32.
30 Pecora Committee, Part 1, 23 May 1933, pp. 5, 20, 49–52.
31 Pecora Committee, Part 1, 25 May 1933, p. 224.
Page 66
Page 66
32 Vincent Carosso interviews with Harry S. Morgan, 14 May 1974, 4
December 1975, 21 April 1976, TML, CP, Box 8, Henry S. Morgan
(interviews). See also a further interview on 9 December 1976 in TML, CP,
Box 18, Morgan & Co – Misc. Notes 1920s File 2.
33 Pecora Committee, Part 1, 24 May 1933, p. 106.
34 Ibid., p. 124.
35 See the chapter by Longstreet Hinton, “The Birth of a Trust Department,”
in Hinton, Meyer Jr. and Rodd, “Some Comments about the Morgan Bank.”
36 I have been unable to locate the Mitchell Memoirs. Vincent Carosso saw a
copy and this quotation is from his notes, TML, CP, Box 18, Morgan & Co –
Misc. Notes 1920s File 2.
37 Lamont, The Ambassador, p. 252.
38 BL, TWL, Series V, Box 211/20 contains an undated report [Possible
Preliminary Report] that includes the $400 million figure. Memorandum to
TWL, 17 April 1933, BL, TWL, Series V, Box 211/23 lists the categories of
commercial credits without the global $400 million figure.
39 Pecora Committee, Part 1, 25 May 1933, p. 252.
40 Sale of Foreign Bonds or Securities in the United States, Part 1, 18–21
December 1931, table, J.P. Morgan & Co. sales of foreign government
offerings, pp. 159–61.
41 Marc Flandreau, Norbert J. Gaillard, and Ugo Panizza, “Conflicts of
Interest, Reputation and the Interwar Debt Crisis: Banksters or Bad Luck,”
CEPR Discussion Paper Series, No. 7705, 2010.
Page 67
Page 67
42 Sale of Foreign Bonds or Securities in the United States, Part 1, 18–21
December 1931, p. 21; Pecora Committee, J.P. Morgan statement, 9 June
1933, p. 879.
43 Margaret Myers, The New York Money Market, Vol. 1, ed., Benjamin
Haggott Beckhart, New York: Columbia University Press, 1931–32. Reprint:
New York: AMS Press, 1971, p. 126.
44 Benjamin Haggott Beckhart, The New York Money Market, Vol. 3., pp.
163–65. See the table on p. 83 breaking down call loans into the three
categories.
45 The 2 per cent figure derives from talking points compiled for Lamont in
preparation for his testimony at the Pecora Committee hearings. BL, TWL, V,
Box 211/14. National City Bank, a much larger institution, saw its call loans
crest at almost $513 million in October 1929. Harold van B. Cleveland and
Thomas F. Huertas, Citibank 1812–1970, Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press, 1985, pp. 130–31, table 7.7.
46 See Appendix 1, Consolidated Statement of Condition of J.P. Morgan & Co.
47 Keyes had joined J.P. Morgan & Co. as an office boy in 1903 and was
successively chief clerk, general manager, secretary of J.P. Morgan Inc. in
1940, and vice-president in 1941, before retiring in 1951.
48 On Charles Steele, a memorial address by Russell C. Leffingwell may be
found in YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 9, Folder 184. Cochran’s health problems
dated from at least 1928. Young to Dwight Morrow, 16 March 1928, SLU,
ODY, Box 10, Morrow, Dwight M., Folder 38. Cochran’s health issues related
to depression. Thomas W. Lamont to Morgan & Cie, 30 August 1933, TML,
Morgan Bank European Papers (MBEP), Box 16, Cables rec’d, 1 June to 31
August 1933.
Page 68
Page 68
49 There is a biography by Harold Nicolson, Dwight Morrow, New York:
Harcourt, Brace, 1935.
50 TML, CP, Box 17, Morgan & Co. – JPM & Co., Misc. a/cs 1920s contains a
table compiled by Carosso, drawn from J.P. Morgan & Co.’s Private Ledger 5,
that lists the partnership percentages from 1925 to 1931.
51 In September 1935, after Morgan, Stanley was established, Steele’s capital
stood at $9 million, Lamont’s at $8.5 million, and Jack Morgan’s at $1.5
million. J.P. Morgan & Co. Capital Account, TML, Ledgers and Journals J.P.
Morgan & Co., Private Ledger 7.
52 United States of America before the Securities and Exchange Commission
in the Matter of Richard Whitney, et al., 3 May 1938, United States,
Washington, DC: Government Printing Office, 1938, Vol. 2, pp. 851–52.
53 George Whitney interview, 22 January 1963, Columbia University Library
(CUL), Columbia Oral History Collection (COHC), p. 75.
54 Securities and Exchange Commission in the Matter of Richard Whitney, 20
April 1938, Vol. 2, p. 567.
55 Ibid., p. 563.
56 George Whitney interview, 22 January 1963, CUL, COHC, p. 40.
57 Randolph Phillips, “The House of Morgan: The Price of Its War and Post-
War Policies,” The Nation, vol. 148, no. 24, 10 June 1939, p. 699.
58 Lamont, The Ambassador, pp. 188–89.
59 Anonymous, The Mirrors of Wall Street, New York: G.P. Putnam’s & Sons,
1933, p. 45. The author was Clinton W. Gilbert, who had earlier found success
with The Mirrors of Washington.
Page 69
Page 69
60 Jack Morgan to Edward C. Grenfell, 16 January 1925, Deutsche Bank
archives (DB), Morgan Grenfell Papers (MGP), Box 50596220, December
1906 to September 1914 JPM.
61 Bertie C. Forbes, Men Who Are Making America, New York: B.C. Forbes
Publishing Co., 1917, p. 252; Walker, “J.P. The Younger,” p. 134; “Mister
Morgan,” 86.
62 TML, CP, Box 2, Folder Morgan, J.P. Jr., File 2, Notes from William A.
Mitchell, “Memoir”; George Whitney interview, 22 January 1963, CUL,
COHC.
63 John Marrinan to Senator Fletcher, Senator Costigan, 27 May 1933, Center
for Legislative Archives, RG 46, Sen 73A–F3, Box 133, Partnership
Agreement – Confidential Memorandum.
64 Jack Morgan’s reply to Helen Harman Brown, the editor of Reply, an anti-
suffrage magazine, 17 February 1914, TML, JPM, Box 104, Folder 314.
65 Jack Morgan to Joseph Grew, 6 November 1922, TML, JPM, Box 43,
Folder 14.
66 John P. Diggins, Mussolini and Fascism: The View from America,
Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1972.
67 In the same article, “J.P. Morgan Pays a Call on Baldwin,” New York Times,
1 August 1935, p. 3, Kuhn Jr. went on: “He had waited patiently at the end of
a long line of Dominion High Commissioners and minor officials, who filed
quickly past with nothing more than a formal handshake from the King and
Queen. But when Mr. Morgan reached the royal stand, according to witnesses,
it was as if a long-lost brother had appeared. The King and Queen stood with
him fully ten minutes in eager and animated conversation, and hundreds of
Page 70
Page 70
guests wondered who this portly stranger could be who was so intimate with
their royal family. The story is of some interest as showing the unique place
Mr. Morgan holds among all the thousands of Americans who visit Britain
every summer.”
68 For accounts stressing the resilience of the City, see Peter J. Cain and
Anthony G. Hopkins, British Imperialism, 1688–2000, 2nd ed., Harlow:
Longman, 2001, pp. 406–08 and 464–78; Ranald C. Michie, “The City of
London As a Global Financial Centre, 1880–1939: Finance, Foreign
Exchange, and the First World War,” in Philip L. Cottrell, Evan Lange, and
Ulf Olsson, eds., Centres and Peripheries in Banking: The Historical
Development of Financial Markets, Ashgate: Aldershot, 2007, pp. 73–79.
69 Revelstoke and Addis quoted in Roberta Allbert Dayer, Finance and
Empire: Sir Charles Addis, 1861–1945, London: Macmillan, 1988, pp.
189–91.
70 Beyond the biography by his grandson Edward, Lamont penned three
works that shed light on his character: Thomas W. Lamont, Henry P. Davison:
The Record of a Useful Life, New York: Harper & Brothers, 1933; My
Boyhood in a Parsonage, New York: Harper Brothers, 1946; and Across
World Frontiers, New York: Harcourt Brace & Co, 1951. The last was
published posthumously. Chernow, The House of Morgan, p. 207, has a pithy
assessment of Lamont. Robert Freeman Smith, “Thomas Lamont:
International Banker As Diplomat,” in Thomas J. McCormack and Walter
LaFeber, eds., Behind the Throne: Servants of Power to Imperial Presidents,
1898–1968, Madison, WI: University of Wisconsin Press, 1993, pp. 101–25,
offers a sympathetic portrait of Lamont as a diplomat. For Michael Hogan’s
argument that Lamont was the exemplar of the private banker as an agent of
corporatism, see “Thomas W. Lamont and European Recovery: The
Diplomacy of Privatism in a Corporatist Age,” Kenneth Paul Jones, ed., U.S.
Diplomats in Europe, 1919–1941, Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-Clio 1983.
Page 71
Page 71
71 A capsule biography in the British Foreign Office files is typical: “Thomas
Lamont is a self-made man and very highly regarded in New York. He is
always said to be the brains behind J.P. Morgan and Co.” The National
Archives UK, Foreign Office, 371/17588/05265.
72 The phrase is Lansing Lamont’s, A Life in Letters, New York: Strawtown
Press, 1999, and refers to Lamont and his wife Florence Corliss Lamont,
p. 64.
73 Elisabeth Glaser, “The Making of the Economic Peace,” in Manfred F.
Boemeke, Gerald D. Feldman, and Elisabeth Glaser, eds., The Treaty of
Versailles: A Reassessment after 75 Years, Washington, DC: German
Historical Institute, 1998, pp. 398–99; Thomas W. Lamont to Thomas S.
Lamont, 13 July 1936, in Lamont, A Life in Letters, p. 136.
74 Priscilla Roberts, “The Anglo-American Theme: American Visions of an
Atlantic Alliance 1914–1933,” Diplomatic History, vol. 21, no. 3 (1997), pp.
333–64.
75 Corliss Lamont interview with Vincent Carosso, TML, CP, Box 8, Folder
Thomas W. Lamont.
76 “East Seventieth Street,” Fortune, vol. 20, no. 1, July 1939, pp. 82–83.
77 Bertie C. Forbes, “Tommy Lamont of J.P. Morgan,” Forbes, 1 August
1930.
78 Thomas W. Lamont obituary, New York Times, 4 February 1948.
79 Stuart M. Crocker diary, 5 March 1929, SLU, ODY, Stuart M. Crocker
diary (SMC), Box 976; Anonymous, The Mirrors of Wall Street, pp. 99–112.
Frederick Lewis Allen to Hildegard Allen, 10 June 1935, Library of Congress
(LC), Frederick Lewis Allen papers (FLA), Box 2, correspondence 1935.
Page 72
Page 72
80 Schlesinger, The Crisis of the Old Order, p. 161.
81 Thomas W. Lamont to Paul G. Hoffmann, 18 September 1942, BL, TWL,
Series I, Box 20/16. Hoffmann was in the Department of Commerce. The
letter was drafted but not sent.
82 Ajay K. Mehrotra, “Lawyers, Guns and Public Monies: The U.S. Treasury,
World War One, and the Administration of the Modern Fiscal State,” Law and
History Review, vol. 28, no. 1 (2010), pp. 173–225 for Leffingwell’s stint at
the Treasury.
83 See Stephen Schuker, “Leffingwell, Russell Cornell,” in John A. Garraty,
ed., Dictionary of American Biography, supplement 6, 1956–60, New York:
Charles Scribner’s & Sons, 1990, 376–78; W. Elliott Brownlee, “Russell
Cornell Leffingwell,” in Larry Schweikart, ed., Encyclopedia of American
Business History and Biography, Banking and Finance, New York: Facts on
File, 1990, 216–39. Edward Pulling, ed., Selected Letters of R.C. Leffingwell,
Oyster Bay, NY: Privately Printed, 1979, also contains biographical
information. Robert T. Swaine, The Cravath Firm and Its Predecessors,
1819–1948, Vol. 2, New York: Private Printed, 1948, pp. 17–18 and 130–32 is
insightful on Leffingwell.
84 Allan H. Meltzer, A History of the Federal Reserve, Vol. 1: 1913–1951,
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2003, pp. 90–109, discusses the move
to higher rates and Leffingwell’s role therein. The inflation figures may be
found on p. 91.
85 Leffingwell to Carter Glass, 29 April 1929, University of Virginia Library
(UV), Carter Glass papers (CG), Series I, Box 14/1929 Banking
Correspondence Federal Reserve System.
Page 73
Page 73
86 David Cannadine, Mellon: An American Life, New York: Vintage Books,
2008, p. 395.
87 Leffingwell to Lamont, 16 April 1929, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4, Folder
94.
88 See his exchange with Walter Lippmann in October 1931 at the time of the
Japanese invasion of Manchuria, Lippmann to Leffingwell, 22 October 1931,
Leffingwell to Lippmann, 23 October 1931, both YUL, RCL, Series 1, Box 5,
Folder 108. On neutrality, see Leffingwell to Lamont, 30 November 1935,
YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4, Folder 96.
89 All three men worked with Leffingwell at the Carnegie Corporation. The
interviews are in CUL, COHC. Osborn was interviewed in 1967; for the
remarks on Leffingwell, pp. 15–16; Perkins was also interviewed in 1967,
p. 16; Hiss was interviewed in 1968, see pp. 27–28.
90 TML, CP, Box 2, Folder Morgan, J.P. Jr., File 2, Notes from William A.
Mitchell, “Memoir.”
91 John T. Flynn, “Other People’s Money,” The New Republic, vol. 78, no.
1006, 14 March 1934, p. 130.
92 George Whitney interview, 22 January 1963, CUL, COHC, p. 42.
93 TML, CP, Box 6, Folder Ferdinand Pecora.
94 Harry S. Morgan, interviewed by Carosso in the 1970s on multiple
occasions, is an outlier.
95 John Brooks, Once in Golconda, New York: Harper & Row, 1969. Reprint:
New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1999, pp. 45–46.
Page 74
Page 74
96 Pak, Gentleman Bankers.
97 “General Motors in High: Stock Rushes Upward in Sensational Fashion on
Cochran Interview – Whole Market Buoyant,” Wall Street Journal, 3 August
1926, p. 16; Brooks, Once in Golconda, pp. 87–89.
Page 75
Page 75
2
J.P. Morgan & Co. at Home and
Abroad in the 1920s
◈
At 12:01 p.m. on 16 September 1920 a horse-drawn wagon pulled up across the
street from the Morgan offices in New York. A massive explosion ensued,
flinging slugs of cut-up window sash weights into buildings and scything down
pedestrians. With dead, dying, and injured victims strewn on the street, the
Morgan staff in 23 Wall Street escaped relatively lightly. One employee was
killed, and seventeen more were wounded by shards of glass. Among the
partners, only Junius Morgan, who sustained a gash to his hand, was injured.1
Newspapers and journals were quick off the mark to assign blame. The New York
Times, in one of the many articles that it would run on the bombing, put forward
an explanation: “Red Plot seen in Blast: Scenes in Wall Street after the
Explosion.” The Wall Street Journal indulged in conspiratorial speculation:
That the explosion, if part of a plot … was carefully planned in detail, is the
opinion of brokers familiar with the procedure customarily followed by Mr.
Morgan on his returns from Europe. On the day of his first return to the
office, it is his custom to assemble his chiefs promptly at twelve o’clock for
the purpose of lunching together at some place previously decided upon.
Page 76
Page 76
The fact that the explosion took place practically at noon, gives good basis
for the assumption that the perpetrators of the plot were well aware of this
custom, and planned to take advantage of it, with the expectation of
destroying, at one blow, all the heads of the organization.
For the Commercial and Financial Chronicle, the time had come to crack down,
to “arouse the American people to the necessity of short, sharp measures and to
the folly of temporizing further with insane agitators with an evident mania for
indiscriminate homicide of a peculiarly heartless and revolting kind.”2 While
there was outrage at the heavy loss of life and breathless wondering whether an
“infernal machine” might have been involved, there was no surprise that J.P.
Morgan & Co was bombed. The bank was a logical choice for “Bolsheviki” to
attack; after all, was it not the most important financial institution in the United
States and the world? How better to strike a blow against capitalism than to
assault the Morgan offices?
If the Morgan partners after the explosion deprecated the notion that J.P.
Morgan & Co. was the particular aim of the bombers, such protestations only
served to reinforce their salience.3 That the Morgan bank should have been
targeted reflected its place in the American imagination and in American life as
well as its stature as the standard-bearer of internationalism in the American
financial world. London, Paris, and New York – the Morgan trinity – united the
old world’s pre-eminent financial centres with the rising power of the new world
in the wake of war. For those who saw the harbinger of the future in Lenin’s
Russia, global revolution would sweep aside the entrenched power of capitalism
that resided in these financial citadels. For the moment, the Morgan place atop
the international financial pantheon was assured, but it was not unchallenged;
explosions and the Red Scare aside, structural shifts in American banking were
altering the distribution of power in ways that were understood dimly, even on
Page 77
Page 77
the Street. Paradoxically, while the 1920s were the Morgan heyday, it was also
the decade in which Morgan supremacy was under siege on Wall Street.
Morgan pre-eminence in the hard work of postwar reconstruction concealed
to some degree this reality. The artificial nature of the postwar system, with a
prostrate Germany, a Russian pariah state, a disaffected Italy, a Japan
antagonized by the unwillingness to accede to its requests for racial equality, and
a League of Nations disfigured by American disavowal, bestowed on Britain and
France preponderance. While London and Paris eyed one another with the
scepticism born of the reawakening of centuries of great-power animosity, J.P.
Morgan & Co. worked to bridge hostility. London and Paris aside, the Corner
cultivated strong ties with Rome and Tokyo in the 1920s. Durable peace, in the
Morgan view, rested upon an appreciation that politics and economics were
indivisible. Multilateral trade, open markets, and a revived gold standard would
underpin European revival, or so the partners hoped. Economic prosperity went
hand in hand with the development of political goodwill among the former
combatants. The willingness of Americans to lend, and foreign longing to
borrow, made the agents of transmission powerful. With its unmatched
connections to the victors of World War I, no American bank was as influential
as J.P. Morgan & Co. in the 1920s at home and abroad.
*****
The bombing added to the myth that encrusted the Morgan firm. Much of the
Morgan aura derived from Pierpont Morgan whose legacy shaped J.P. Morgan &
Co. long after his death. Popularly, Pierpont Morgan was seen as having played
the leading role in surmounting the panic of 1907, demonstrating, apparently, the
inability of government to resolve such peril without recourse to private bankers.
Pierpont Morgan had mastered calamity, in the process saving the American
financial system. Without his intercession, the abyss beckoned.4 Thereafter, J.P.
Page 78
Page 78
Morgan & Co. was in thrall to a legend of 1907. Should another great crisis
occur, in the expectation of many Americans J.P. Morgan & Co. would marshal
the response of the financial community. The Morgan partners would come to
the rescue as Pierpont had in 1907.
Tangibly, the 1907 panic spurred the creation of the Federal Reserve
system.5 The lack of an American central bank had long been bemoaned as a
weakness in the American banking system. The question was, how should a
central bank be constructed and what would its powers be? The discussions that
produced the Federal Reserve Act in 1913 resulted in the creation of a central
bank that did not mimic the European models but instead opted for a dozen
regional Federal Reserve banks overseen by a Federal Reserve Board in
Washington. Almost immediately the new system was confronted by the
outbreak of war. The FRBNY was always likely to wield disproportionate
influence within the system given that New York was the nation’s financial hub,
but Benjamin Strong’s intellect and drive amplified this tendency. The Federal
Reserve Board in Washington suffered from two notable weaknesses in the
1920s: some of its members were ill-suited to sit on the board and Washington
itself was distant from what was transpiring in the financial markets.6
As a private bank, J.P. Morgan & Co. was not a member of the Federal
Reserve system. Nevertheless, its partners had intimate contacts with Strong.
These dated from the pre-war period and lasted until Strong’s death in October
1928. Strong counted Lamont, Leffingwell, and Morrow among those who
mattered to him personally. As Strong told Owen Young in 1927, it had been
Jack Morgan, Henry P. Davison, and Morrow who had convinced him to take the
job of governor of the FRBNY.7 The tie between the J.P. Morgan partners and
Strong was tightened by the close friendship that sprang up between Strong and
Montagu Norman, the governor of the Bank of England. Strong’s belief in the
necessity of European stabilization and Anglo-American comity mirrored the
Page 79
Page 79
outlook of the Morgan partners.8 Jack Morgan furnished Strong with the bank’s
private statement of financial condition as part of this relationship. In return, J.P.
Morgan & Co. paper was discounted by Strong. While the Morgan partners often
saw matters similarly to Strong, he was his own man with his own ideas. Critics,
however, were inclined to believe that Strong and the Federal Reserve were
puppets dancing on Morgan strings.9
Fears that J.P. Morgan & Co. dominated American finance, American
industry, American railroads, and by extension the American economy took
sustenance from 1907, animating the 1912 Investigation of Financial and
Monetary Conditions. The investigation, often called the Pujo investigation, after
its chair, Congressman Arsène P. Pujo of Louisiana, was a product of the
impulses of both Populism and Progressivism. It drew upon agrarian anger at the
imposition of the gold standard and upon the oft-recounted stories of the
depredations of big-city bankers preying upon farmers. It was given momentum
by the desire to reform an America that seemed to be the plaything of ever
larger, more sprawling corporations. The rise of these corporations threatened
the health of the American body politic in the eyes of many. As discussion
swirled about establishing a central bank, the worry was articulated that it would
be controlled by the same parochial financial interests whose activities had done
so much, in the reform view, to warp American life.
Among the witnesses that testified before the committee was Pierpont
Morgan. Sparring with Samuel Untermyer, the chief counsel for the committee,
Pierpont Morgan made his famous comment that character was the basis of
credit. He denied resolutely that he had any particular control or influence over
other financial institutions and did not agree that the presence of Morgan
partners on the boards of banks or insurance companies connoted a
concentration of wealth and power. Pujo and Untermyer sought to demonstrate
the contrary. The hearings adumbrated the interlocking directorates of the
Page 80
Page 80
Morgan partners, tabulated those directorships, and introduced diagrams that
pictorially demonstrated these links. When the Pujo Committee report was
published in February 1913, its authors professed the conviction that there
existed a “Money Trust” in which the concentration of control of money and
credit was in the hands of a “few men” who exercised control through
interlocking directorships. The Pujo Committee reckoned that banks led by J.P.
Morgan & Co. had at their disposal resources of at least $1.3 billion.10 Later that
year a series of articles was published in Harper’s Weekly by Louis D. Brandeis.
Collected, they appeared in book form in 1914 under the title Other People’s
Money. Brandeis built on the work of the Pujo Committee and extended the
attack on investment bankers, with J.P. Morgan & Co. as his chief target.
The Morgan partners, whether under Pierpont Morgan or Jack Morgan,
scoffed at the “Money Trust” charge. Grenfell, writing to Lamont in 1930
regarding allegations levied by Republican Congressman Louis T. McFadden
that hidden Morgan power dictated international finance, commented:
Loose talk of that sort does harm because it is difficult to catch up and deny
statements mixing up J.P.M. & Co., Federal Reserve Bank, Ben. Strong,
Bank of England and Norman. We all remember before and during the war
how any fool could draw up a diagram indicating that J.P.M. & Co. directly
controlled all the railways, the banks, Steel and Harvester and Atlantic
shipping, whilst through the affiliates of the London partners with the Bank
of England it would appear also that all the English industries and shipping
companies were in a wicked group.11
During the Pecora hearings in 1933, Jack Morgan and Lamont gave different
answers to interlocutors on the question of Morgan influence. Queried by
Senator William Gibbs McAdoo as to whether Morgan directorships gave them a
disproportionate say in the corporations on whose boards the partners served,
Page 81
Page 81
Jack Morgan replied “We have no more domination than one vote gives us,
Senator McAdoo.” Two weeks later, Lamont told Senator Edward P. Costigan
that the public grossly overestimated Morgan influence. When pressed by
Costigan if he would characterize Morgan influence as slight, Lamont demurred:
“We hope that in sound directions it is much more than slight.”12 If this reply
suggested there was substance to tales of Morgan power, historians are divided.
Forty years after the Pecora hearings, Carosso adjudged that a “Money Trust”
never existed.13 David Kotz, writing later the same decade, drew a distinction
between two explanatory schools of thought: the financial control thesis that
went back to Brandeis and traced its path through Corey to Pecora and the
managerial control thesis which had been pioneered by Adolf Berle and Gardner
Means, reaching its most influential statement in Alfred Chandler. If the former
championed the notion of widespread Morgan influence, the latter rejected it on
the grounds that the growth of the modern corporation with its managerial class
was inimical to external control. While Kotz was a partisan of the financial
control thesis, he agreed that between 1930 and 1945 banker control over large
corporations receded.14
In truth, it is difficult to gauge the Morgan reach. Evidently the bank and its
partners were integrated into the Atlantic seaboard elite. The business and
personal links with Morgan Grenfell in London and Morgan & Cie. in Paris
afforded the Morgan partners privileged access to Anglo-French business and
political circles. Some observers were unequivocal about the scope of Morgan
influence. The author of More Merry-Go-Round, the sequel to the bestselling
Washington Merry-Go-Round, classified Lamont in 1932 as one of the “super-
lobbyists” for whom “[t]he door of the White House, of every Cabinet office,
always is open. They advise, and they are listened to. Many of them have
performed important public service and at some sacrifice. But it is exactly this
Page 82
Page 82
that makes their influence so powerful, their position so dangerous.” Frederick
Lewis Allen and Elliott V. Bell, the financial beat writer for the New York Times
in the 1930s, two acute contemporary observers who knew the bank and the
financial world well, were less categorical. Both confessed that Morgan
influence was tangible but ineffable, real but fundamentally mysterious.15 Others
were studiously vague. Benjamin Beckhart and James G. Smith, in their 1931
volume on the New York money market, remarked of the private banks, “their
power is not to be measured in terms of their assets alone, but in the prestige of
the firms and the personal connections and fortunes of the partners.”16 No bank
was as prestigious as the Corner, nor did any private American bank have the
contacts that the Morgan partners enjoyed. J.P. Morgan & Co. was a member of
various industry groupings or associations, such as the International Chamber of
Commerce and the Investment Bankers Association. Yet there is little to
demonstrate that the firm took a leadership role in these organizations; when in
1934 Lamont and Parker Gilbert attended the American Bankers Association
(ABA) convention, the Wall Street Journal observed that, while the firm had
been an ABA member for years, it was the first time that Morgan representatives
had attended a convention.17
Privately the partners evinced an astonishing range of contacts, at least as
judged through their memberships in clubs, fraternal bodies, societies, and
various other leisure, personal, and professional bodies. Anderson was a member
of the Downtown Club and the Century Association and indulged in sport at the
Bedford Golf and Tennis Club. Bartow’s clubs included India House and the
Union League, while he too golfed. Cochran was a trustee of Philips Andover
and the Metropolitan Museum of Art (as were Jack Morgan and Lamont), while
his clubs were varied – Union League, University, Metropolitan, Yale, Recess,
and the Racquet and Tennis Club in Manhattan. Senior partners, such as Jack
Page 83
Page 83
Morgan and Lamont, belonged to both American and international bodies. A few
examples suffice. Jack Morgan was a golf member throughout the 1930s at the
Club de Golf de Morfontaine in France (as was Lamont); a member of the
Roxburghe Club in London, a selective (forty members) aristocratic group
interested in books and manuscripts; the Union Interalliée; and a member of the
Société d’histoire générale et d’histoire diplomatique. Lamont’s associational
activity beggars belief in number and scope.18 Practically there were limits; even
the indefatigable Lamont, who personified the ideal of a well-connected banker,
could not possibly have maintained relations suggested by widely publicized
spider-web diagrams depicting the Morgan reach, a point that he made during
the Pecora hearings in 1933.
The archives furnish little clarity. While they testify to Morgan contacts
with banks, with industry, and with the press and politicians, confirmation that
the Morgan partners directed others is harder to discern. In some instances –
such as the United States Steel Corporation – engagement is clear. Throughout
the 1930s Jack Morgan and Lamont paid careful attention to the affairs of the
Steel Corporation, frequently signing off on major policy decisions. The Morgan
hand is apparent in other prominent corporations, such as Johns-Manville. Yet
the Morgan writ was often overstated. At the behest of Hoover, in 1932 Lamont
and Cochran lobbied Sewell Avery, the president of Montgomery Ward, the
leading Chicago department store chain, to aid the dissemination of Hoover’s
message in the Midwest. Although Avery had been appointed by J.P. Morgan &
Co. to turn around Montgomery Ward, he rejected Lamont’s plea to cooperate
with the president’s re-election efforts. Lamont confessed to Theodore Joslin,
Hoover’s press secretary, that “I urged Mr. Avery just as far as I could.” This
suggested the limitations of Morgan influence even in a firm that was deemed to
be a “Morgan” company.19
Page 84
Page 84
J.P. Morgan & Co., and in particular Lamont, paid careful attention to the
press. Partners cultivated Wall Street reporters, editorial writers, owners, and
publishers. Advertising was placed where Lamont thought “goodwill” and
prestige would accrue, an objective buttressed by having partners write articles
and speeches for publication where appropriate. Egan and subsequently Wasson
were encouraged to foster a network with as many publicists and figures in the
press as feasible, with the intent of demonstrating that “the firm is composed of
human beings.”20 At the core was Lamont’s practice of writing letters to papers
across the country in response to their coverage of J.P. Morgan & Co. While
Lamont recognized that he had a tendency to overdo this effort, he thought its
value “immeasurable.” Penned to columnists, editors, or publishers, labelled
“Personal,” and never for publication, Lamont’s letters argued, challenged,
corrected, informed, and redressed stories printed. A sample from 1933 runs the
gamut from correspondence to the syndicated columnist Drew Pearson and his
daily “Washington Merry Go Round” column to the Tampa Tribune, the
Janesville Gazette of Wisconsin, the New Orleans Item, the Raleigh Times, the
Denver Post, the Seattle Times, the Chicago American, the Arizona Silver Belt,
the Ventura Free Press of California, and the Minneapolis Tribune.21 No
publication was too small or too obscure to receive a letter. In 1937 John
Franklin Carter, who wrote under the byline Jay Franklin as the “Unofficial
Observer,” exposed this practice in an open letter in the New York Post. Carter
asserted that Lamont had been operating a Morgan censoring machine devoted to
shaping comment on J.P. Morgan & Co., using his influence in the newspaper
and publishing industries to bring recalcitrant journalists, editors, and publishers
to heel. In Carter’s view Lamont’s letters demonstrated anew the power of the
“economic royalists” in American life. Humorously, Lamont replied to Carter
with a “Personal” not for publication letter.22
Page 85
Page 85
Certain newspapers and journals were susceptible to Morgan blandishments
in the 1930s. Financial vulnerability engendered by declines in advertising and
readership meant that some organs sought Morgan goodwill. Throughout the
decade the bank maintained a rotational policy with its advertising dollars,
distributing its placements among the principal New York papers. Even the New
York American, a Hearst paper noted for its hostility to J.P. Morgan & Co., was
the beneficiary of Morgan spending.23 As this suggests, it is unwise to assume
advertising spending purchased fealty. The financial press, ranging from the
Commercial and Financial Chronicle to the Wall Street Journal and the various
magazines that catered to business news, such as Forbes, Barron’s, and Fortune,
was reliably conservative in its outlook. Their support could be counted on by
the Corner in most instances. The mainstream press, whether it was newspapers
or magazines, was more diffuse. Western-based papers as well as rural organs
were hostile. Much of the coverage in the Midwest, where negative sentiment
against J.P. Morgan & Co. was heartfelt, was antipathetic. So too the writings of
the Hearst chain, whose proprietor viewed the Corner in dire terms. Magazines
of a liberal or progressive persuasion, like The Nation or The New Republic,
ranged against J.P. Morgan & Co., though Lamont’s wide-ranging
acquaintances, including Ellery Sedgwick, the owner of The Atlantic, offset this
disposition. Collier’s, one of the leading weeklies of the decade with a massive
circulation, was a special case. Through his interest in the Crowell Publishing
Company which controlled Collier’s, Lamont wielded influence. Gertrude B.
Lane, the long-time editor of the Women’s Home Companion, one of the journals
in the Crowell stable, told Herbert Hoover in 1935 that a George Creel article
assailing Republicans in Collier’s “caused a tremendous stir in this organization.
So much of a stir that we held a meeting at which the officers of the company
were present and also some of our important stockholders, including Mr.
Page 86
Page 86
Thomas W. Lamont.” The upshot was that the editorial staff agreed not to run
any political articles that had not been vetted beforehand by a committee that
had both Democratic and Republican members.24 Time magazine, a Collier’s
rival, was also not immune – Egan, Lamont’s right-hand man on public relations,
sat on its board of directors from 1926 to 1936.
The partners cared especially about the New York press. The two most
important New York dailies in the Morgan view were the New York Times and
the New York Herald Tribune. Relations with the New York Times were cordial.
Arthur Krock, the Washington bureau chief of the New York Times, socialized
with Morgan partners. Stronger reasons existed for thinking that the New York
Herald Tribune was susceptible to Morgan desires. Conservative ideologically,
the paper was struggling. Financial data shared with Lamont by Helen and
Ogden Reid, the paper’s owners, revealed losses of nearly $350,000 in 1931 and
slightly more than $500,000 in 1932. The Metropolitan Museum of Art, through
the will of Mrs. Whitelaw Reid, was owed payments of $150,000 in 1933,
money the Reids did not have. Meeting on 21 April 1933 in the Morgan Library,
Lamont, Jack Morgan, and Myron Taylor – all directors of the Metropolitan
Museum – gathered with William Sloane Coffin Sr., the president of the board of
trustees of the Metropolitan. The Reids had asked for an eighteen-month
postponement on repayment of the $150,000 from the Metropolitan while they
sought a loan from the Irving Trust company. The request was granted and the
loan arranged. Helen Reid, the power at the Herald Tribune, understood well
that it was Morgan intercession that had staved off disaster. Repeatedly in the
years to come she would ask Lamont for assistance in tiding the paper over
during its financial troubles.25
More problematic was any Morgan means to shape the message imparted
on radio, which reached millions weekly. The screeds of Father Coughlin and
Page 87
Page 87
others who assailed J.P. Morgan & Co. were unanswerable even if the charges
made were risible. To this vulnerability needs to be added another: the 1930s
were a decade in which Americans flocked to movie theatres. Weekly attendance
in 1930 stood at the astonishing figure of 80 million, roughly 65 per cent of the
population. While attendance declined thereafter, tens of millions of Americans
still went to the movies every week.26 Cinema newsreels were a part of daily
life. The exposure given to high-profile events such as the Pecora hearings in
1933 conveyed to millions the Morgan name. For such audiences, whether
Morgan influence and power were real or not is perhaps immaterial. What
mattered was perception, flickering on screens or booming from the radio.
Americans believed in Morgan power and this power was all the more fearsome
because of uncertainty regarding its immensity. Those who railed against J.P.
Morgan & Co. extended the idea of its influence even as they decried the
Morgan reach.
The Pujo investigation and Other People’s Money echoed through the
World War I years; The Great Conspiracy of the House of Morgan and How to
Defeat It remained a staple trope even if the war banked up the fires of
Progressivism.27 Besieged by a government that sought to enforce its vision of
unity, Progressivism retreated. The struggle over the Versailles Treaty and the
League of Nations marked a setback for reformist hopes in the context of the
Red Scare at home. By the mid-1920s, as the economy grew, prosperity took
much of the sting out of the critique of the Money Trust.28 However, the
nostrums advanced by Populists and Progressives did not disappear. They
remained, albeit largely dormant through the 1920s, subsumed by a politics of
prosperity dominated by Republican power, complacency, and a conviction that
a New Era had been born.
Symptomatic of the shift in Progressive outlook was George Soule’s 1924
article in The New Republic entitled “The Myth of Wall Street.” Soule, a labour
Page 88
Page 88
economist noted for his involvement in reform causes, attacked the
understanding of Wall Street common in Progressive circles. While the Pujo
investigation might have popularized interlocking directorates, Soule was
dismissive. The conceit that American life was the product of “secret
conferences” held in the J.P. Morgan & Co. offices was absurd. He argued that
Wall Street was not monolithic, that there was no singular guiding force, and that
the Street’s control over big business was minimal. Large corporations did not
need the banks. In Soule’s view, while there was affiliation between companies
and banks, it was not clear which way control – if there was control – ran: “it is
often difficult to say whether the bank controls the manufacturer of the
manufacturer controls the bank.” In Soule’s estimation, small business, through
its organized lobbies, such as the Chambers of Commerce and Rotary Clubs, had
more power than Wall Street.29 While Soule’s assessment was more intellectual
than most, in the context of the 1920s it represented the zeitgeist.30 After 1929 as
economic crisis deepened, the Money Trust discourse re-emerged in a way that
drew upon both Soule and the older vision of Pujo and Brandeis. Bankers, large
and small, urban and rural, but especially on Wall Street, were to blame for
American woes. What this critique overlooked were the deep-seated problems of
American banking.
The American banking system in the 1920s was rickety, but its frailties
derived from considerations beyond those raised in the Pujo investigation or by
Brandeis. The dual banking structure, wherein banks were chartered at either the
national or the state level, allowed for a proliferation of institutions, the bulk of
which were not members of the Federal Reserve system. Supervision was lax, a
problem deriving from and compounded by the fact that there were too many
banks.31 Contraction occurred overwhelmingly among the thousands of small,
poorly capitalized rural banks. Afflicted by the travails of the American farmer
Page 89
Page 89
in the 1920s, whose livelihood was eroded by low commodity prices, sapped by
the growing movement of people to the cities that was emptying small towns,
and made redundant by the advent of the automobile that encouraged farmers to
bank in the nearest sizeable town, rural banks failed in their hundreds every year
in the 1920s.32 Matters were worsened by resistance to branch banking.
Although branch banking grew in the 1920s, it was fought bitterly outside large
urban centres on the grounds that branch banking permitted large banks to
penetrate into the countryside. In eighteen states in 1930 no bank had a branch
office. Efforts to reform the banking system foundered, as did attempts to
persuade more banks to join the Federal Reserve system.33 Concurrently, a
movement toward a concentration of banking resources accelerated. New York
and Chicago were the two leading centres, with the former incomparably larger.
Huge banks such as National City Bank or Chase National Bank, both of New
York, were the behemoths of the day. National City’s assets at the end of 1929
had surpassed $2.2 billion, while deposits stood at $1.649 billion. Chase, for its
part, following its merger with Equitable Trust in 1930, could command
resources of $2.7 billion.34 The power of the giants within the banking system
was growing yearly.
J.P. Morgan & Co.’s means were outstripped substantially by these
leviathans. The firm had strong bonds to First National Bank, dominated by
George F. Baker senior, and National City Bank. George F. Baker senior was one
of Pierpont Morgan’s oldest allies. Cooperation between the two banks
continued through the 1920s when the leadership of First National passed to
George F. Baker junior. Charles E. Mitchell, National City Bank’s chief in the
1920s, blazed his own path but worked regularly with the Morgan partners.35
Two other large New York banks, Bankers Trust and Guaranty Trust, had close
Morgan connections. Bankers Trust, created in 1903, owed its existence in large
measure to Harry P. Davison, who, supported by Pierpont Morgan, had
Page 90
Page 90
pioneered its establishment. As for Guaranty Trust, it had long-standing ties with
J.P. Morgan & Co. Just after the war, the Morgan partners assisted Guaranty in
overcoming difficulties involving its holdings in Mercantile Trust. Through the
1920s the Morgan partners Thomas W. Lamont and George Whitney sat on the
Guaranty board which lent credence to those who believed in a “Money Trust.”
In addition to the great New York banks were the insurance companies, the most
important of which had at their disposal significant pools of capital. Here too,
J.P. Morgan & Co. had relationships with companies such as Aetna Life
Insurance, Metropolitan Life Insurance, and New York Life Insurance Co. These
ties benefited the Morgan bank in various ways but did not mean that the
partners controlled these institutions. Suggestions to this effect were rebuffed
sharply by those who ran them. William C. Potter, the chairman of the board of
directors of Guaranty Trust, was peremptory when asked by Senator Burton
Wheeler in 1936 whether Guaranty was one of the “Morgan group of banks.”
Potter told the Senator abruptly “Not by me,” pointedly remarking that he took
pains to correct the misapprehension that Guaranty was a Morgan bank.36
Irrespective of the question of Morgan influence, the structural trends in
American commercial banking were diluting the importance of private banks.
Investment banking, long the special province of the private banker, was
changing. While the overall number of American commercial banks fell in the
1920s, in the investment banking field the converse was occurring – more firms
were entering it. There were various reasons for this development. One was a
shift in the type of securities retailed. Traditionally bonds had been the preferred
vehicle for corporations to raise funds. Increasingly large companies did not
need recourse to the capital markets as they were generating from internal
sources the capital that they required.37 Despite this, the growth of the American
economy in the 1920s was such that the volume of domestic corporate bond
issues rose steadily from 1919 to 1927, reaching a total of $4.769 billion.
Page 91
Page 91
Thereafter they declined. In 1928 and 1929 stock issues outpaced bond issues by
dollar value. From $3,491 billion in 1928 corporate stock offerings jumped to a
remarkable $6,757 billion in 1929, overshadowing corporate bond placements of
$2,620 billion.38 The seemingly irresistible surge of business on offer enticed
new entrants into investment banking. Carosso, in his authoritative study, has
observed that the 1920s were a decade of growth in investment bank numbers,
with 3,000 extant by 1929, though, as Eugene White has observed, five or six
principal players dominated.39
Investment banking was alluring because of the prospect of bundling
American capital for foreign borrowers. Fundamentally this was driven by the
transformation in the American capital position occasioned by the war. In 1914
the United States was a debtor nation; after 1918 it was a creditor, the largest
creditor in the world, and New York rivalled London. This reordering did not
manifest itself immediately in new, large-scale American lending abroad. In
1919 net new foreign dollar loans amounted to $613.7 million. Not until 1924
was this figure surpassed. The boom years of American lending abroad were
1924 through 1928, with the peak reached in 1927 when net new foreign lending
reached $1.081 billion. The fall in foreign lending apparent in 1929 was driven
in part by the greater returns that appeared to be available in the American
domestic market. The year 1930 was the last in which there was a net new dollar
loan surplus.40 Much has been written about the surge of American lending
abroad in the 1920s. Morrow for one, in a 1927 article in Foreign Affairs, “Who
Buys Foreign Bonds,” attempted to show that it was “average” American
investors who were driving purchases. His partner, Lamont, in a May 1927
speech to the International Chamber of Commerce in Washington, was
uncharacteristically negative, warning of competition “on almost a violent
scale” among American investment houses to make loans abroad that watered
down the quality of those offerings.41
Page 92
Page 92
While J.P. Morgan & Co. could afford to be, and was, selective in its
foreign loans, the Corner had many challengers. National City Bank and Chase
National Bank had moved with alacrity into lending abroad after 1918 and
through the 1920s expanded their activities overseas. National City had ninety-
eight offices in twenty-three countries by the end of the decade.42 The Morgan
partnership was seen as an impediment by an aggressive cohort of investment
banks little inclined to follow 23 Wall Street docilely.43 Among these, Harris,
Forbes & Co. of New York; Halsey, Stuart of Chicago; and Blyth & Co. of San
Francisco were notable.44 It has been suggested that some investment banks,
such as Dillon, Read & Co., existed on the sufferance of J.P. Morgan & Co.45
This view overstates the Morgan reach. The Morgan partners were hostile to
Clarence Dillon and he to them. Dillon’s wariness of J.P. Morgan & Co. stamped
the reality: J.P. Morgan & Co. was the scion of an old-line establishment that
sought to deter interlopers, often allied with like-minded firms such as Kuhn,
Loeb & Co., Lee, Higginson & Co., and Kidder, Peabody.
New competitors in investment banking, the growth of the major money-
centre New York banks, and the existence of the Federal Reserve system were
redistributing where power lay in American finance in the 1920s. Popularly 23
Wall Street remained the locus where the conspiratorially minded detected
coordination, even if in truth no single institution spoke for the Wall Street
financial community, not even J.P. Morgan & Co. A.P. Giannini’s Bank of
America, often cited for its fractious relationship with J.P. Morgan & Co., was
unexceptional in its conviction that the Morgan partners neither spoke for nor
represented American banking writ large. Nor, it should be acknowledged, did
Jack Morgan or Lamont presume that they led American finance. They were
private merchant bankers. This reality was obscured by the prestige of the
Corner, which remained towering in 1929. The foundations of that prestige were
built upon pillars driven into the Old World, in London and Paris.
Page 93
Page 93
*****
When World War I broke out in 1914, J.P. Morgan & Co. was fortunate –
London and Paris were ranged together on the Allied side. The firm’s partners
did not hide their sympathies, either at the time or later. Jack Morgan’s candid
acknowledgement in 1936 that he, his partners, and his firms were
wholeheartedly with the Allies from the beginning of the war was perhaps the
most forthright statement to this effect but it only reinforced what had long been
recognized.46 What mattered was not the nature of Morgan sentiments but rather
the ramifications of World War I for J.P. Morgan & Co., the United States, and
international politics.
J.P. Morgan & Co. fulfilled two principal functions for the Allies between
1914 and 1917. The first was to raise money to meet their expenditures in the
United States. Command of the sea meant that the Allies could place orders in
the United States and could ship those goods across the Atlantic, provided that
they could pay. This task became increasingly difficult as waging the war
exacted a heavier toll. London and Paris found themselves pressed to raise funds
in the United States to meet their escalating purchases. As the strain mounted,
borrowing to obtain dollars became a necessity. Beginning on a small scale, this
ramped up quickly. The $500 million Anglo-French loan of 1915, unprecedented
in its size, was a harbinger of the heavier borrowings to come. The Anglo-
French loan proved difficult to market and, consequently, subsequent financial
operations moved steadily in the direction of smaller loans, often short-term and,
increasingly, backed by collateral to reassure purchasers of their soundness. By
April 1917, when the US Treasury assumed the burden of meeting Allied dollar
needs, the demand loan that J.P. Morgan & Co. had extended to Britain, the most
credit-worthy of the Allies, stood at approximately $400 million.47
Page 94
Page 94
The other chief function of J.P. Morgan & Co., no less meaningful than the
financial, was commercial. It soon became apparent that neither Britain nor
France was able to manage its wartime purchasing requirements efficiently in the
United States. A variety of factors were responsible, among which were inter-
allied rivalry, the competing demands of ministries, incompetence, gullibility,
and greed. Accordingly, in January 1915 the British government named J.P.
Morgan & Co. its commercial agent in the United States. France followed suit in
May 1915. The arrangement between London and Paris and J.P. Morgan & Co.
was not exclusive. Certain goods, notably commodities like flour and wheat,
were outside the purview of the agreements. Motor transport and horses were
also sourced independently. To coordinate purchases, J.P. Morgan & Co.
established an Export Department, headed by Edward R. Stettinius, who
subsequently became a Morgan partner. Under Stettinius, thousands of contracts
were placed for the British and French governments, with a dollar value of more
than $3 billion.48
While the entry of the United States into the war as an Associated Power in
April 1917 meant a gradual cessation of Morgan activities on behalf of the
Allies, the wartime years boosted the fortunes of J.P. Morgan & Co. This was
true in a literal sense – Jack Morgan’s gross income in 1916 exceeded $9.5
million (equivalent to $233 million in 2020) – but also in other, less tangible
ways that in the long run were more consequential.49 The scope of the financial
operations undertaken on behalf of the Allies extended the reach of J.P. Morgan
& Co. within the United States. The Anglo-French loan of 1915 required a huge
syndicate; 2,200 distributing houses across the United States were involved in
placing the bonds, many of them coming into contact with J.P. Morgan & Co. for
the first time.50 Close ties were developed especially with Chicago and Charles
G. Dawes.51
Page 95
Page 95
A second by-product was familiarity in dealing with government, whether
in the United States, in Britain, or in France. The wartime experience reshaped
both J.P. Morgan & Co. and the governments that they dealt with. As the state
burgeoned to meet the needs of prosecuting war, as the financial and commercial
requirements became more pressing for the Allies, so too did J.P. Morgan
partners become accustomed to dealing with government. Habitually, Morgan
partners such as Jack Morgan, Thomas W. Lamont, and Dwight Morrow found
themselves meeting with ministers of finance, with secretaries of state, prime
ministers, presidents, and central bankers. Postwar, capital-starved European
governments looked to J.P. Morgan & Co. for loans, while the questions that
arose from the Paris Peace settlements, infused as they were by economic and
financial entanglements, ensured that the wartime practice of regular contact
between J.P. Morgan & Co. and governments persisted.
In December 1918 J.P. Morgan & Co. gazed upon a vista that looked very
different from August 1914. The Tsarist Empire was gone; its replacement
uncertain. Whether the Bolsheviks would survive was unknown, though the fear
that they inspired was already widespread. The Kaiserreich, the German Empire
of William I, Bismarck, and William II, had slipped away as the Kaiser headed
into exile at Doorn. The third great continental empire, Austria-Hungary, was a
casualty too, disappearing suddenly after centuries of dominance in Eastern and
Central Europe. The successor states and their boundaries were in flux, awaiting
the deliberations at Paris and the abatement of the violence that stalked much of
Eastern, Central, and Southern Europe. Liberal Italy had come through on the
Allied side, but few rated Rome highly, certainly not when measured against
London and Paris. Britain and France were the powers that mattered, and they
were indebted to J.P. Morgan & Co. For the Morgan partners, what counted was
that the Allies had won World War I and the House of Morgan had been, and
could expect to be in the years ahead, the private banker to the victors (see
Page 96
Page 96
Figures 2.1 and 2.2).52 There was good reason for Fortune magazine to write,
“In 1907 Morgan’s was powerful because J.P. Morgan headed it. In 1920
Morgan’s was powerful because it was the banker for England and for
France.”53
Figure 2.1 The Morgan & Cie. partner Nelson Dean Jay as a Lt. Col. in the
US Army, c.1918–19.
With the permission of Knox College.
Page 97
Page 97
Figure 2.2 Edward Charles Grenfell of Morgan Grenfell, 1929.
The National Portrait Gallery UK.
In this changed world there were constants: to be a J.P. Morgan & Co.
partner was to accept that the United States was part of the international
community and could not be divorced from it.54 The partners were committed
uncompromisingly to a transatlantic axis that ran from New York to London and
Paris. There was never any suggestion of severing this link. Throughout the
interwar period, worries about British and European stability dominated their
thoughts and actions when the old sureties had vanished with the disappeared
empires. This focus did not mean the bank ignored the rest of the world. Japan,
for much of the interwar period, and in the 1930s China featured. Elsewhere,
Page 98
Page 98
Mexico and Argentina were important to the partners.55 Yet always Europe was
primary.
Given this, while it has been argued that the Anglo-American financial
relationship in the 1920s was conflict-ridden, with the City fending off the global
challenge from New York, for the House of Morgan such a depiction lacks
credibility.56 The war had reordered international finance, diminishing Britain
and the City of London and correspondingly strengthening the United States and
New York. Jack Morgan was devoted to Anglo-American comity. Rivalry
existed but was buried by his desire to see J.P. Morgan & Co. and Morgan
Grenfell cooperate when possible. His partners were less wedded to his
conception of Anglo-American relations. As the cleavages of the 1930s
intensified, as the partners in both New York and London with close personal
ties aged, there was a fraying of the Anglo-American ideal within the House of
Morgan. Nonetheless, this never came to an open caesura while Jack Morgan
lived.
A desire to see Britain return to the gold standard preoccupied the Morgan
partners in the first half of the 1920s. This objective had been signalled by the
1918 Cunliffe Committee and commanded near unanimous support within the
City, if not within British industry.57 The Morgan partners believed that returning
to gold would benefit Britain, pave the way to global prosperity, and hasten a
return to political and economic stability. In concert with Strong, J.P. Morgan &
Co. made a commitment to provide credits that allowed sterling to return to
gold.58 With this assurance, the chancellor of the exchequer, Winston Churchill,
opted to take the step in 1925.
As for “Europe,” it is an imprecise term; specifically, the Morgan partners
cared most, thought most, and devoted their energies most to Western Europe.
Of eighteen European government bond issues floated by the firm between 1920
and 1930, fifteen were to Western European states and one was to a municipality
Page 99
Page 99
– Rome in 1927. The two loans that were not made within Western Europe were
the $25 million Austrian bond issues of 1923 and 1930. Belgium was the
recipient of six loans between 1920 and 1926, ranging from $30 million to $50
million. After Belgium, France (three), Italy (three, including Rome), Germany
(two), and Switzerland (two) were borrowers. These loans were concentrated
temporally. Of the eighteen, fourteen were made between 1920 and 1926. Only
four loans, two to Italy (both in 1927), one to Germany (1930), and one to
Austria (1930), occurred after 1926, by which time it was thought that Europe
had stabilized.59
The emphasis on Western Europe was a product of several factors. One was
historical – the deep ties to Britain and France, with the existence of Morgan
Grenfell in London and Morgan & Cie. in Paris, meant familiarity and comfort.
The wartime experience reinforced these pre-existing contacts. It was not
happenstance that in the 1920s twelve out of eighteen Morgan loans to
governments went to states that were part of the wartime Allied coalition. The
Morgan networks were strongest with bankers, businessmen, and politicians in
Britain, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Spain, and Italy. In Italy J.P. Morgan
& Co. had a dedicated agent from 1920, Giovanni Fummi (see Figure 2.3).
Page 100
Page 100
Figure 2.3 The Morgan representative Giovanni Fummi in Rome, 1919.
George Grantham Bain Collection, Library of Congress, Prints &
Photographs Division, LC-USZ62-98991.
Fummi filled a unique position in the interwar House of Morgan. He had
been recruited by Lamont, who met him at the Paris Peace talks in 1919. A
banker, Fummi was a professional business director who had close ties with
Giovanni Agnelli of Fiat, on whose board of directors he served. Fummi was
also a director of Pirelli and one of a number of bankers who managed the
properties and investments of the Vatican. Fummi navigated the passage from
Page 101
Page 101
Liberal Italy to the Fascism of Mussolini with ease. For J.P. Morgan & Co.,
Fummi was the intermediary with Italian bankers and with Il Duce, making
possible Morgan loans to Italy. Fummi remained the Morgan agent in Italy until
1940, providing information and advice on Italy as Mussolini’s course became
more bellicose.60
The two Austrian loans and the two German loans were, at first glance,
inconsistent with the Morgan preference for loans to ex-Allied states. However,
the Morgan partners were convinced of the necessity of European reconstruction.
Lamont and Whitney had both been present at the Paris Peace talks in 1919.
Lamont and another American delegate, Norman Davis, wrote a memorandum in
May 1919 that argued that American prosperity had been driven by the European
export market. A failure to restore this market would lead to depressed growth in
the United States, a prescription that was accepted widely by American business
in the years to come.61 Subsequently the Morgan firm had been ranged in the
camp of those in the United States who championed the Treaty of Versailles and
membership in the League of Nations. American rejection of the Treaty of
Versailles in 1920 did not mean any renunciation of Morgan effort. In a 1922
speech to the American Bankers Association (ABA) entitled “The American
Banker’s Responsibility Today,” Lamont exhorted his audience to accept the
responsibility that came with the power accrued from the war. He urged his
audience to forge a peaceful, prosperous Europe for the good of all, concluding
his peroration by drawing on scripture to drive home the moral and ethical
imperative of doing so.62 This conformed to the views of Norman who was
worried about the struggles of the Austrian state. Austria, as it emerged from the
breakup of the Habsburg Empire, was the old imperial capital, Vienna,
surrounded by little more than a rump of its hinterland. Financially and
economically Austria was a cripple. Norman, animated by worries about the
exposure of City banks to Austria, took the lead, pressing Strong and Jack
Page 102
Page 102
Morgan to consider a loan, while canvassing the French and the League of
Nations. After much jockeying, a reconstruction loan was floated in 1923 in
which J.P. Morgan & Co. handled the American tranche.63 The Morgan
willingness to accommodate Norman reflected their desire to help the governor
as well as a belief that the loan would aid postwar stabilization.
Similarly, the German loan of 1924 was undertaken as part of a broader
effort to resolve the financial and economic problems arising from the war. The
1924 Dawes Plan loan was designed to put the German currency on a new
footing, while simultaneously seeking to redress reparations. After the failure to
agree upon a figure for reparations at the Paris Peace talks in 1919, a sum had
been agreed to at London in 1921. The trouble was that successive German
governments had no interest in paying. Ministries in Berlin blamed German
economic difficulties on reparations, thus making feasible, it was hoped, a
revision of reparations and more generally the Treaty of Versailles. These
ambitions were less implausible than they appeared because Britain, having done
much to make impossible agreement on a figure in 1919, had shifted its position.
London was convinced that the struggling postwar British economy needed a
German export market. The British thought that the most beneficial step would
be the cancellation of war debts and reparations, a prescription that the Balfour
Note of August 1922 made plain to the distress of Paris. For the Harding,
Coolidge, and Hoover administrations, there was no link between reparations
and war debts. Washington’s view was that the Allies, having borrowed money
from the United States, had to repay it, irrespective of what the defeated powers
paid the Allies. Matters came to a head in 1923–24 with the French occupation
of the Ruhr, provoked by another German failure to meet their reparations
obligations.64
The ensuing settlement has been ably described by Stephen Schuker in The
End of French Predominance in Europe, which remains the most persuasive
Page 103
Page 103
account.65 J.P. Morgan & Co. found themselves in a difficult situation; while
they were reluctant to badger the French government of Édouard Herriot, the
Morgan partners were unwilling to contemplate a German loan without surety
that Berlin would be relieved of French pressure, whether political or military.
The French ability to resist the pressure emanating from London and New York
was undercut by the weakness of the franc, which was sagging on international
markets. A solution was found in the flotation of a Morgan loan to France, as
well as the Dawes Plan loan to Germany. J.P. Morgan & Co. led the American
syndicate for both. The German loan was a product of the Morgan desire to see a
comprehensive peace fashioned in Europe. It did not mean a change in Morgan
policy with regard to lending to Germany.
Prior to 1914 the House of Morgan had had dealings with various German
banks, largely through Morgan Grenfell whose contacts extended to
Bleichröders, Mendelssohns, Warburgs, Dresdner, and Darmstädter banks. The
outbreak of war severed these links. Jack Morgan had never liked Germany, a
distaste arising initially from his stay in the country in the 1880s. The wartime
experience, when Jack Morgan survived an assassination attempt at home by a
German sympathizer who fired two bullets into his abdomen in 1915, melded
with his wholehearted pro-Allied sentiment to solidify his belief in German
militarism.66 He was willing to make an exception for the Dawes Loan in 1924,
but in the jostle of American banks striving to lend to Germany after 1924 the
Corner was conspicuous through its refusal to join the fray.67 When in 1928
discussions among the three Morgan firms regarding developing future business
in Europe took place, it was agreed that it was worth cultivating Vienna, Prague,
and Budapest but not Berlin. Jack Morgan had ruled out the idea of resumption
of business with Germany.68 This reticence, as it transpired, worked in favour of
the House of Morgan after 1929. Unlike many in the City and on Wall Street,
Page 104
Page 104
when the 1931 German crisis struck J.P. Morgan & Co. was less exposed, as,
save for the Dawes and Young Plan loans, it had lent nothing to Germany.
The practice of making foreign loans in the 1920s, whether by J.P. Morgan
& Co. or any other American financial institution, was subject to the explicit
sanction of the State Department and the implicit approval of the departments of
the Treasury and of Commerce.69 Discussions had begun in 1921 between
bankers and the Harding administration. Both sides were agreed that having
private interests take the lead in lending was advisable though it was not until
March 1922 that the State Department issued a public statement stipulating that
banks required permission from Washington before any loan was extended.70
Benediction was nearly always forthcoming, but the policy allowed Washington
to maintain oversight. Banks such as J.P. Morgan & Co. were happy to have the
imprimatur of the State Department, suggesting a degree of consanguinity,
though Jack Morgan recoiled at the notion that his firm was an unofficial agent
of the State Department.71 Washington had an interest in European recovery,
even if the fractious reparations and war debt issues complicated the American
posture. The Morgan attitude on war debts was staked out early. In August 1922
Jack Morgan, then in Paris, was asked about the war debts owed by the erstwhile
American allies. His response, as the New York Times reported, was unequivocal:
“Those debts should be cancelled.”72 Thereafter, the attitude of the Morgan
partners on this question remained fervent that modification of war debts, either
whole or partial, was required. Certitude of this kind was beyond Harding,
Coolidge, or Hoover in the 1920s for sound political reasons. If at the official
level Washington’s freedom of action was subject to constraints, central bankers
were less bound, which suited successive Republican administrations.
Central bankers have at the extremes been portrayed either as visionaries
whose efforts failed but who paved the way for a more durable international
financial order after 1945 or as villains whose well-meaning but maladroit
Page 105
Page 105
actions brought on and deepened the calamity of the Depression.73 Strong and
Norman, Émile Moreau, governor of the Bank of France from 1926 to 1930, and
Hjalmar Schacht, president of the Reichsbank from December 1923 to March
1930, were a quartet who interacted regularly with the Morgan partners. Strong’s
death in October 1928 removed one friend; Norman remained throughout the
1930s. While the connection with Moreau was never as close as that existing
between J.P. Morgan & Co. and Strong and Norman, the partners developed very
good relations with Charles Rist, a leading French economist and, in 1927 as
Deputy-Governor of the Bank of France, Moreau’s representative at the central
bankers’ talks in New York. As for Schacht, he was to bedevil the Morgan
partners from 1929 onward. While the partners had no direct hand in the various
agreements among the central bankers after Britain’s return to gold, indirectly
they sympathized with, and encouraged, cooperation as a means to redress
economic grievances. In 1927 Bartow’s Long Island residence served as the
gathering place for perhaps the best-known example of central bank concord
when Strong, Norman, Schacht, and Rist met.
*****
On the eve of 1929 J.P. Morgan & Co. operated in a landscape transformed at
home and abroad by World War I. Much was familiar – the institutional structure
of the House of Morgan was unchanged, the tie to Britain and to the City of
London was as strong as it had been before the war, and the core cultural values
of the partners in New York had not altered. J.P. Morgan & Co. remained the
leader of Wall Street, the most influential voice in a financial community whose
counsels were heard across the country. Imprinted by the nineteenth-century
merchant bank, the Morgan partners were devoted to the preservation of the
existing order. They were the scions of the status quo. Evolution might be
Page 106
Page 106
countenanced; revolution was beyond the pale. Pursuing stability, the partners
believed that their activities were for the betterment of all.
Making such a world view more understandable was the receding of the
threats represented by Populism and Progressivism, by Pujo and Brandeis, that
had faded with the postwar march of American living standards. While many
Americans remained convinced of the malevolent influence of J.P. Morgan &
Co., seeing in the House of Morgan international bankers whose aims were
unknown but were inimical, voices calling for the breakup of the “Money Trust”
were fewer and fainter, while Hoover’s triumph in the 1928 presidential election
promised a continuation of Republican dominance.74
Abroad, though the Europe of 1914 had ceased to exist and war debts and
reparations were an ongoing source of acrimony and vexation, it appeared as if
the continent was on the mend, economically and politically. The Morgan
partners had become accustomed to being consulted in international relations, to
participating in putting Humpty-Dumpty back together. Morgan partners shared,
imbibed, and articulated an internationalist ethos in which renewed prosperity
was attainable through a commitment to multilateralism forged on a restored
gold standard. What would happen, however, if the conditions underpinning
Morgan influence in international relations – ample American capital seeking
foreign returns, the dominance of Britain and France in international affairs, the
presence of a friendly administration in Washington committed to economic
internationalism – should change? These possibilities do not seem to have
crossed the minds of the partners. Fortified by the conviction that their world
was improving, on 31 December 1928, when the new partners were named, all
was well at the Corner. As the calendar turned to 1929, confidence was the
watchword.
Page 107
Page 107
1 Beverly Gage, The Day That Wall Street Exploded, New York: Oxford
University Press, 2009, pp. 1–37, is an excellent account of the day, the
bombing, and the political violence in American life in the 1920s.
2 New York Times, 17 September 1920, p. 1; “Terrific Explosion Outside
Morgan’s Office: Explosion at 12:01 P.M.,” Wall Street Journal, 17
September 1920, p. 3, Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 111, no.
2882, 18 September 1920, p. 112.
3 Gage, The Day That Wall Street Exploded, p. 165.
4 See Strouse, Morgan: American Financier, pp. 573–96, for Pierpont Morgan
during the 1907 crisis. J. Lawrence Broz, The International Origins of the
Federal Reserve System, Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1997, offers an
alternative assessment.
5 Elmus Wicker, The Great Debate on Banking Reform: Nelson Aldrich and
the Origins of the Fed, Columbus, OH: Ohio State University Press, 2005.
6 Lester V. Chandler, Benjamin Strong: Central Banker, Washington: The
Brookings Institution, 1958, pp. 256–57. John Kenneth Galbraith, in The
Great Crash 1929, 3rd ed., Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1972, p. 32, was
scathing, labelling the Federal Reserve Board “a body of startling
incompetence.”
7 Strong to Young, 6 March 1927, SLU, ODY papers, Box 303, George
Harrison confidential.
8 Chandler, Benjamin Strong. On relations with the Morgan partners, pp.
25–31.
9 Anonymous, The Mirrors of Wall Street, pp. 9–10.
Page 108
Page 108
10 Money Trust Investigation of Financial and Monetary Conditions in the
United States [Pujo Committee], Subcommittee of the Committee on Banking
and Currency, Washington, DC: Government Printing Office 1913. Pierpont
Morgan’s comment regarding character and credit was made on 19 December
1912 and is on p. 1084. The Report of the Committee to Investigate the
Concentration of Control of Money and Credit, House of Representatives,
62nd Congress, 3rd session, House of Representatives, Washington, DC,
Government Printing Office, 1913, may also be found at
https://fraser.stlouisfed.org/title/report-committee-appointed-pursuant-house-
resolutions-429-504-investigate-concentration-control-money-credit-1329.
See especially pp. 129–31.
11 Grenfell to Lamont, 27 May 1930, TML, CP, Box 18, Morgan & Co. –
Misc. Notes 1930s.
12 Pecora Committee, 24 May 1933, p. 33; 9 June 1933, pp. 156–57.
13 Vincent Carosso, “The Wall Street Money Trust from Pujo through
Medina,” Business History Review, vol. 47, no. 4 (1973), pp. 421–37.
14 David M. Kotz, Bank Control of Large Corporations in the United States,
Berkeley, CA: University of California Press, 1980, chaps. 1–2.
15 Robert S. Allen, More Merry-Go-Round, by the Authors of Washington
Merry-Go-Round, New York: Liveright Press, 1932, p. 458; Allen, The Lords
of Creation, pp. 345–46; Elliott V. Bell, “The Decline of the Money Barons,”
in Hanson W. Baldwin and Shepard Stone, eds., We Saw It Happen: The News
behind the News That’s Fit to Print, New York: Simon and Schuster 1938, pp.
151–53.
16 Benjamin Haggott Beckhart and James G. Smith, The New York Money
Market, vol. 2., p. 5.
Page 109
Page 109
17 “Bankers Ready, A.B.A. Head Says,” Wall Street Journal, 22 October
1934, p. 1.
18 Pak, Gentleman Bankers, discusses the Morgan networks.
19 Lamont to Hoover, 25 March 1932, 31 March 1932, BL, TWL, Series II,
Box 98, Folder 21, Hoover, Herbert C., 1932.
20 Lamont, 1 June 1934, “J.P. Morgan & Co. and Their Relations to the
Public,” BL, TWL, Series V, Box 214, Folder 13, lays out the Morgan effort.
21 See Lamont to Drew Pearson, 26 April 1933, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 116,
Folder 18.
22 BL, TWL, Series II, Box 86, Folder 13 contains copies of the Open Letter
in The New York Post of 18 December 1937 and Lamont’s response of 3
January 1938.
23 Wasson to Thomas W. Lamont, Thomas S. Lamont, and Martin Egan, 6
January 1937, JP Morgan Chase Corporate History Collection, JP Morgan
collection, J.P. Morgan & Co. Ads 1930s has a breakdown of the 1936
advertising distribution. The JP Morgan Chase Corporate History Collection is
closed to outside researchers and consequently is not included in the
Bibliography.
24 Gertrude B. Lane to Hoover, 1 November 1935, Herbert Hoover
Presidential Library (HHPL), Post Presidential Individual Correspondence
File (PPICF), Box 119, Lane, Gertrude B. 1933–41.
25 BL, TWL, Series II, Box 120, Folder 10. For Helen Reid’s gratitude, see the
handwritten letter of 14 March 1936 crediting Lamont with saving the day.
Page 110
Page 110
26 Michelle Pautz, “The Decline in Weekly Cinema Attendance, ” Issues in
Political Economy, vol. 11 (2002), p. 1 and appendix.
27 Henry L. Loucks, The Great Conspiracy of the House of Morgan and How
to Defeat It, Watertown, SD: n.p., 1916.
28 Alan Dawley, Changing the World: American Progressives in War and
Revolution, Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2003. William
Leuchtenberg, The Perils of Prosperity, Chicago: University of Chicago Press,
1985, 2nd ed. 1993.
29 George Soule, “The Myth of Wall Street,” The New Republic, vol. 39, no.
506, 13 August 1924, pp. 324–25. Soule’s name was not on the byline but he
was the author of the piece.
30 This is a theme of Steve Fraser, Every Man a Speculator: A History of Wall
Street in American Life, New York: Harper Perennial Edition, 2006, pp.
375–85.
31 On 30 June 1921 there were 29,788 commercial banks. By 31 December
1928 the figure had fallen to 25,579. Banking and Monetary Statistics,
1914–1941, New York: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
1943, part 1, table 1, p. 16, https://fraser.stlouisfed.org/title/banking-monetary-
statistics-1914-1941-38?browse=1940s#6408.
32 Banking and Monetary Statistics, 1914–1941, part 1, table 14, p. 52,
https://fraser.stlouisfed.org/title/banking-monetary-statistics-1914-1941-38?
browse=1940s#6408.
33 Lester V. Chandler, America’s Greatest Depression, 1929–1941, New York:
Harper & Row, 1970, pp. 78–9; Eugene Nelson White, The Regulation and
Reform of the American Banking System, 1900–1929, Princeton, NJ: Princeton
University Press, 1983.
Page 111
Page 111
34 Cleveland and Huertas, Citibank 1812–1970, p. 134, table 7.8; John Donald
Wilson, The Chase: The Chase Manhattan Bank, 1945–1985, Cambridge,
MA: Harvard Business School Press, 1986, p. 15.
35 Cleveland and Huertas, Citibank, 1812–1970, p. 139.
36 Investigation of Railroads, Holding Companies, and Affiliated Companies
(hereafter Wheeler Committee), Subcommittee of the United States Senate
Committee on Interstate Commerce, 75th Congress, 1st session, 9 December
1936, United States, Washington, DC: Government Printing Office, 1938, pp.
111–12. See the Hathi Trust: https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?
id=umn.31951d035053289&view=1up&seq=122&skin=2021.
37 See two articles by Stuart Chase, “Capital Not Wanted” and “Shadow over
Wall Street,” in Harper’s Magazine, February 1940, vol. 180, pp. 228–34 and
March 1940, pp. 367–74.
38 Bureau of the Census, Historical Statistics of the United States, Vol. 2:
Colonial Times to 1970, United States Bureau of the Census, Series X 510-
515, p. 1006, https://fraser.stlouisfed.org/title/historical-statistics-united-
states-237/volume-2-5808.
39 Vincent Carosso, Investment Banking in America, Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press, 1970. Especially chaps. 12–14, pp. 240–99. The
figure of 3,000 is on p. 267. Eugene N. White, “Banking and Finance in the
Twentieth Century,” in Stanley L. Engerman and Robert E. Gallman, eds.,
The Cambridge Economic History of the United States, Vol. 3: The Twentieth
Century, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000, p. 752.
40 Figures from Lewis, America’s Stake in International Investments, p. 629.
See too Barry Eichengreen, “U.S. Foreign Financial Relations in the
Page 112
Page 112
Twentieth Century,” in Engerman and Gallman, Cambridge Economic History
of the United States, table 8.2, p. 476.
41 Dwight Morrow, “Who Buys Foreign Bonds,” Foreign Affairs, vol. 5, no. 2
(1927), pp. 219–32; Lamont speech 2 May 1927, quoted in Lewis, America’s
Stake in International Investments, p. 380.
42 Cleveland and Huertas, Citibank, 1812–1970, pp. 123–25. For National
City’s securities activities, pp. 135–52.
43 Emily S. Rosenberg, Financial Missionaries to the World: The Politics and
Culture of Dollar Diplomacy, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press,
1999, p. 155.
44 Harris Forbes was acquired by Chase in 1930.
45 Robert Sobel, The Big Board: A History of the New York Stock Market,
New York: The Free Press, 1965, p. 239.
46 Special Committee Investigating the Munitions Industry [hereafter Nye
Committee], United States Senate, 74th Congress, 2nd session, Part 25, 7
January 1936, Washington, DC: Government Printing Office, 1937.
47 Kathleen Burk, Britain, America and the Sinews of War, London: Allen &
Unwin, 1985 is indispensable; Martin Horn, Britain, France and the
Financing of the First World War, Montreal: McGill-Queen’s University
Press, 2002.
48 Stettinius died in 1925. There were 3,938 contracts placed, with a dollar
value of $3,131,014,509. The figures are from F. Carrington Weems, America
and Munitions: The work of Messrs. J.P. Morgan & Co. in the World War, 2
vols., New York: Privately printed, 1923, vol. 1, p. 222. Kathleen Burk, “A
Merchant Bank at War: The House of Morgan 1914–1918,” in P.L. Cottrell
Page 113
Page 113
and D.E. Moggridge, eds., Money and Power, London: Macmillan, 1988. For
France, Yves-Henri Nouailhat, France et États-Unis: août 1914–avril 1917,
Paris: Sorbonne, 1979.
49 Jack Morgan’s gross income in 1916 was $9,570,941. Lamont’s was
$5,334,896 or the equivalent of $130 million in 2020. Figures from the Pecora
Committee investigation in 1933. Center for Legislative Archives, RG 46,
74th Congress, Special Committee Investigating the Munitions Industry, Box
157, Executive File – Morgan. Conversion on the basis of consumer price
index (CPI) increase.
50 This was the figure agreed to by Lamont in December 1931. Sale of
Foreign Bonds or Securities, Part 1, 18 December 1931, p. 4.
51 Annette B. Dunlap, Charles Gates Dawes: A Life, Evanston, IL:
Northwestern University Press, 2016, pp. 92–96.
52 Kathleen Burk, “The House of Morgan in Financial Diplomacy,
1920–1930,” in B.J.C. McKercher, ed., Anglo-American Relations in the
1920s, Edmonton: University of Alberta Press, 1990, pp. 125–57, is the best
overview.
53 “Mister Morgan,” Fortune, vol. 8, August 1933, p. 84.
54 An overview of American engagement with Europe is George C. Herring,
From Colony to Superpower: U.S. Foreign Relations since 1776, New York:
Oxford University Press, 2008, pp. 378–434. For the debate on the nature of
the postwar peace, P.M.H. Bell, The Origins of the Second World War in
Europe, 2nd ed., Harlow: Longman, 1997, runs through the case for and
against the Thirty Years’ War thesis in chaps. 2–3, pp. 16–43. Peter Temin,
Lessons from the Great Depression, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1989, is an
influential work by an economist that accepts the notion of a Thirty Years’
War. Sally Marks, The Illusion of Peace: International Relations in Europe,
Page 114
Page 114
London: Macmillan Press, 1976 and Patrick Cohrs, The Unfinished Peace
after World War I, New York: Cambridge University Press, 2006, doubt
stability was attained in the second half of the 1920s. Zara Steiner, The Lights
That Failed: European International Relations 1919–1933, Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 2005, is more open-minded.
55 On Japan see Pak, Gentlemen Bankers, chap. 6, pp. 160–91; for Mexico see
Smith, “Thomas Lamont: International Banker As Diplomat,” pp. 101–25.
56 Michie, “The City of London,” pp. 41–79. Some historians have seen the
1920s as dominated by Anglo-American rivalry. Frank C. Costigliola,
“Anglo-American Financial Rivalry in the 1920s,” Journal of Economic
History, vol. 37, no. 4 (1977), pp. 911–34. More generally, see the essays in
B.J.C. McKercher, ed., Anglo-American Relations in the 1920s, Edmonton:
University of Alberta Press, 1990.
57 Robert W.D. Boyce, British Capitalism at the Crossroads 1919–1932,
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1987, esp. chap. 2, pp. 35–78; for
the engagement of Strong and the Morgan partners, pp. 71–72.
58 Burk, “The House of Morgan,” pp. 136–38.
59 A complete list of the Morgan loans from 1920 to 1930 is in Sale of Foreign
Bonds or Securities, Part 1, 18, 19, and 21 December 1931, pp. 159–61.
60 Carosso conducted a series of interviews about Fummi with Lewis Harcourt
of Morgan Grenfell in 1977, with Pierre Meynial, a member of Morgan &
Cie., in 1981, and with Harry Morgan in 1978. Professor Roland Sarti
provided Carosso with additional information on Fummi. TML, CP, Box 3,
Folder Morgan Grenfell & Co; TML, CP, Box 3, Folder Morgan, Harjes;
TML, CP, Fummi, Giovanni. See also Gian Giacomo Migone, The United
States and Fascist Italy: The Rise of American Finance in Europe, trans.
Molly Tambor, New York: Cambridge University Press, 2015.
Page 115
Page 115
61 Michael Hogan, Informal Entente: The Private Structure of Cooperation in
Anglo-American Economic Diplomacy, 1918–1928, Columbia, MO:
University of Missouri Press, 1978, pp. 29–30; Frank Costigliola, Awkward
Dominion: American Political, Economic, and Cultural Relations with
Europe, 1919–1933, Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1984, p. 33.
62 Thomas W. Lamont, 3 October 1922, “The American Bankers
Responsibility Today,” LC, Ogden Mills papers (OM), Box 71, Reparations
and War Debts, 1921–28.
63 Sir Henry Clay, Lord Norman, London: MacMillan & Co., 1957, pp.
179–91.
64 “Reparation” and “reparations” are used indiscriminately as terms in the
literature. I have opted for the plural usage throughout. Selected recent works
on the Treaty of Versailles include Manfred F. Boemeke, Gerald D. Feldman,
and Elisabeth Glaser, The Treaty of Versailles: A Reassessment; Margaret
MacMillan, Paris 1919, New York: Random House, 2001; Alan Sharp, The
Versailles Settlement: Peacemaking After the First World War, 2nd ed.,
London: Palgrave Macmillan, 2008; Sally Marks, “Mistakes and Myths: The
Allies, Germany, and the Versailles Treaty, 1918–1921,” Journal of Modern
History, vol. 85, no. 3 (2013), pp. 632–59. On reparations and war debts, Sally
Marks, “The Myths of Reparation,” Central European History, vol. 11, no. 3
(1978), pp. 231–55; Denise Artaud, “Reparations and War Debts: The
Restoration of French Financial Power, 1919–1929,” in Robert Boyce, ed.,
French Foreign and Defence Policy, 1918–1940, London: Routledge, 1998,
pp. 88–105; Robert Self, Britain, America and the War Debt Controversy: The
Economic Diplomacy of an Unspecial Relationship, 1917–1941, London:
Routledge, 1988; the special issue of Diplomacy and Statecraft, vol. 16, no. 3
(2005), which includes articles by Gerald D. Feldman, “The Reparations
Debate,” Conan Fischer, “The Human Price of Reparations,” and Patricia
Page 116
Page 116
Clavin, “Reparations in the Long Run”; and finally, Leonard Gomes, German
Reparations 1919–1932, London: Palgrave Macmillan, 2010.
65 Stephen Schuker, The End of French Predominance in Europe, Chapel Hill,
NC: University of North Carolina Press, 1976.
66 Forbes, J.P. Morgan Jr., pp. 27–28 for his pre-war view of Germany. On the
assassination attempt, Forbes, J.P. Morgan Jr., pp. 93–94, and Chernow, The
House of Morgan, pp. 192–95.
67 Henry M. Robinson, “Are American Loans Abroad Safe?,” Foreign
Affairs, vol. 5, no. 1 (1926), pp. 49–56. Despite the title the emphasis is on
loans to Germany. For a scholarly analysis, see Stephen Schuker, American
Reparations to Germany: Implications for the Third-World Debt Crisis,
Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1988.
68 Dean Jay to Carter and Joy, 16 March 1928, TML, CP, Box 17, Morgan &
Co. – Commercial Credits 1920s; Germany; Credit Anstalt. Benjamin Joy was
then a partner in Morgan & Cie. in Paris. This folder contains additional
material on how the three firms might develop business in Europe. Whigham
to Joy, 21 January 1929, TML, CP, Box 17, Morgan & Co. – Banking
Business Germany, where Whigham makes it clear that Jack Morgan is
opposed to German business.
69 Interested readers may consult the following on private and governmental
American economic and financial interaction with Europe in the 1920s:
William Appleman Williams, The Tragedy of American Diplomacy, 1959,
reissued and enlarged 1962, New York: Delta, 1962; Carl Parrini, Heir to
Empire: United States Economic Diplomacy 1916–1923, Pittsburgh, PA:
University of Pittsburgh Press, 1969; Hogan, Informal Entente; Melvyn P.
Leffler, The Elusive Quest: America’s Pursuit of European Stability and
French Security, 1919–1933, Chapel Hill, NC: University of North Carolina
Page 117
Page 117
Press, 1979; Daniel P. Silverman, Reconstructing Europe after the Great War,
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1982; Costigliola, Awkward
Dominion; William C. McNeill, American Money and the Weimar Republic,
New York: Columbia University Press, 1986; Rosenberg, Financial
Missionaries; Marc Flandreau, ed., Money Doctors: The Experience of
International Financial Advising, 1850–2000, London: Routledge, 2003;
Zoltán Peterecz, Jeremiah Smith Jr. and Hungary, 1924–1926: The United
States, the League of Nations, and the Financial Reconstruction of Hungary,
London: Versita, 2013.
70 Hogan, Informal Entente, pp. 79–83.
71 Harold Nicolson to Vita Sackville-West, 1 June 1935, Harold Nicolson,
Diaries and Letters, 1930–1939, ed. Nigel Nicolson, London: Collins, 1966,
p. 203.
72 “Morgan and Kahn favor cancellation,” New York Times, 3 August 1922, p.
6.
73 For a positive appreciation, see Chandler, Benjamin Strong, pp. 475–76; for
a hostile reading, see Liaquat Ahamed, Lords of Finance: The Bankers Who
Broke the World, New York: Penguin Press, 2009.
74 Charles R. Geisst, Undue Influence: How the Wall Street Elite Put the
Financial System at Risk, Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, 2005, p. 13.
Page 118
Page 118
3
The Young Plan, the Bank for
International Settlements, and
the Wall Street Crash, 1929–1930
◈
The year 1929 is remembered as the year of the Crash in New York and the
beginning of the Depression. This was an unlikely prospect when the year
opened. Confidence in the future was most striking in the rise in the NYSE.
Whether this upward momentum meant that a crash was inevitable remains
debated.1 The first wave of literature frequently described the Crash as a causal
agent in the coming of the Depression. Emphasis upon the psychological shock
imparted by the Crash to business confidence was often stressed. Typically, little
was said about the international aspects of the Crash and origins of the
Depression.2 More recent analyses have tended to bifurcate the Crash from the
Depression, while emphasizing the ways in which international considerations
influenced developments in the United States. Peter Temin’s essay on the
Depression in The Cambridge Economic History of the United States may be
taken as representative, dismissing the Crash as a factor in the onset of the
Depression.3
Page 119
Page 119
What of J.P. Morgan & Co. and the Crash? Allen wondered in 1935 if the
Corner could have stopped the “wild financial proceedings” in 1929 and thus,
perhaps, headed off the Crash and, by extension, the Depression.4 Bell suggested
in 1938 that J.P. Morgan & Co. might have forestalled the Crash but did not. Bell
identified two factors as responsible for Morgan inaction. The first was that the
structure of American finance had changed greatly since 1907. With the Federal
Reserve making the Morgan role in combatting crisis ambiguous, J.P. Morgan &
Co. expected the Federal Reserve to take the lead. Assuming this, the Morgan
partners recused themselves. The second reason Bell advanced was distinct: the
Morgan partners, he wrote, realized that the Crash heralded the coming of the
Depression. Here lay classic Greek tragedy. “Morally and intellectually … head
and shoulders above the rest of the Street,” Morgan far-sightedness availed them
little, for they divined their powerlessness in the face of the magnitude of the
storm looming.5
Closer examination reveals that omniscience without omnipotence, as Bell
might have it, is illusory. This chapter examines J.P. Morgan & Co., the Young
Plan, the Bank for International Settlements (BIS), the Crash, and its aftermath.
For the bulk of 1929 the attention of the two most senior Morgan partners, Jack
Morgan and Thomas W. Lamont, was riveted on Europe where they were
engaged in negotiating what became the Young Plan and the BIS.6 They
believed that doing so would buttress European recovery and, with it, American
fortunes. They were guardedly cheerful – about the Young Plan, about the BIS,
about Europe, and about the American economy. Prosperity, at home and abroad,
was intertwined: divisibility between international and domestic considerations
was fictional for the Morgan partners. The Morgan partners did not see the Crash
coming; but when it came, it did not dispel Morgan certainty that matters were
improving. To be sure, there were moments where this was not the case, when
gloominess reigned, but on the whole confidence rather than despair pervaded
Page 120
Page 120
the Corner. At first glance this seems odd, as it clashes with the dominant
recollection of 1929–30. In memory, these years unspool a grim montage – the
Crash, a dour and feckless President Hoover, the onset of the destruction of the
Weimar Republic in Germany. Dearth, depression, and dictatorship flash by.
Economists, historians, and political scientists might point to the fragility of
the postwar economic and political order, but challenge to the global dominance
of liberal democratic capitalist states was limited before 1929. The ensuing years
were to manifest confrontation on multiple fronts, economic, intellectual,
military, and political. Retrospectively, if scholars have stressed this as a
defining arc, it was not apparent to the Morgan partners in 1929–30.
*****
Once it was agreed in September 1928 to convene a second international
committee of experts to modify the Dawes Plan, the pressing question was, who
would be the American delegates? Young was the Coolidge administration’s
preference. Young had begun his career as a lawyer before moving into business,
where he rapidly made his name as a forward-thinking executive who was
unusually broad-minded. Young and General Electric were emblematic of
growth and modernity, of the American technocratic miracle.7 His
internationalism was well known, highlighted by involvement in the Dawes Plan
talks of 1924. A standard-bearer for all that was brightest about American
business in 1929, Young was a natural choice. Despite this, Young was reluctant
to commit and through the fall of 1928 refused to make his intentions known.
His baulkiness led to other names being suggested, notably Morrow’s. At length,
Young agreed to serve. He did so with the understanding that he would likely
chair the deliberations.8
Jack Morgan was chosen as the second American delegate. The New
Republic, not always a friend of J.P. Morgan & Co., thought that this selection
Page 121
Page 121
was “an extraordinarily good idea” as his view on reparations “would be
virtually final” in financial circles.9 The Commercial and Financial Chronicle,
the paper of record for business, was categorical in its endorsement. On 19
January 1929 it commented, “Mr. Morgan belongs in a class all by himself,” for
“the Morgan firm is a synonym for integrity and a tower of strength,” which
“commands the confidence not only of the entire banking and financial
community of the United States, but that of Europe and the whole world.”10
Both Jack Morgan and Lamont, who was to be Jack Morgan’s alternate,
were conflicted about participating.11 The drawbacks were apparent: each state
had its own desires and objectives, which ensured difficulties; it was unclear
what support might emanate from Washington given that the November 1928
presidential election had been won by Hoover who had not chosen a secretary of
state; and reparations were scarified after nearly a decade of lacerations inflicted
on all of the participants. Jack Morgan and Lamont did not believe that war debts
and reparations could, or should be, separated, a stance at variance with the
outgoing Coolidge and incoming Hoover administrations. There was a
possibility that no way forward might be found.
Positively, the Morgan partners were encouraged by the active involvement
of Parker Gilbert, the Agent-General for Reparations Payments based in Berlin,
who was urging their participation. Parker Gilbert had been a protégé of
Leffingwell’s at the Treasury during the war and was well known to the partners.
Parker Gilbert would join J.P. Morgan & Co. as a partner in January 1931 and he
may have already had discussions about this prospect with Jack Morgan by the
fall of 1928.12 As for Young, he was a friend, an ally, and someone whose
judgement the Morgan partners respected. Given that the Morgan partners,
especially Leffingwell, had been part of the effort to persuade Young to take the
job, they could hardly deny Young when he asked Jack Morgan to be the second
Page 122
Page 122
delegate. With Young as chair there was an opportunity to reach a final
settlement on reparations that might do much to restore harmony in Europe. If
there was to be prosperity in the United States, European political stability and
economic well-being was required. With this prospect in the offing, the Morgan
partners agreed.13 Having done so, contrary to what the Commercial and
Financial Chronicle assured its readers, Jack Morgan was insistent that his role
would be as a loyal lieutenant to Young.14
Prior to the opening of the talks, Jack Morgan and Leffingwell met in Paris
in October 1928. They were joined by Parker Gilbert who had been considering
what the upcoming conference might accomplish. Writing to George Harrison of
the FRBNY on 11 October, Parker Gilbert enclosed a memorandum that he had
composed on 26 September.15 Asking Harrison to treat it as “strictly
confidential,” Parker Gilbert made an exception for the Morgan partners. He
requested that Harrison pass the memorandum to Lamont and said that he would
do likewise in Paris by giving Leffingwell a copy. Parker Gilbert’s September
memorandum argued that commercializing German reparations bonds was
dependent upon reaching a final total that the Germans owed. “Fundamental” to
success was mobilization, by which he meant that the bonds should be sold to
private investors. Mobilization, which the French promoted, would allow the
respective Treasuries to receive funds immediately without the risk associated
with retaining the bonds.16 Allowing for the likely size of the bond issues, Parker
Gilbert believed that cooperation was required, especially in the British, French,
and American markets. The trouble was that at present bond market sentiment
was negative, a reality that had to be faced. The American market in particular
would benefit from a reduction in bond issues of all kinds to allow a period of
recuperation to make possible the absorption of new issues. In this context
Parker Gilbert was insistent that any German reparations bonds offered must be
of very high quality. The role of the Expert Committee should be to prepare a
Page 123
Page 123
plan that would safeguard the success of bond flotations on the markets
irrespective of the types of bond. This stipulation required that the Expert
Committee membership must be of sufficient stature to reassure the markets.
Parker Gilbert confessed to Harrison that he was alarmed at the “pessimistic
sentiments” emanating from American banking sources.17
Reviewing this document, Morgan and Leffingwell agreed that a German
annuity should be fixed in both amount and duration. Neither man was in favour
of specifying a total capital debt that the Germans would be obligated to
discharge. Morgan and Leffingwell imagined that any bonds issued should come
on to the markets at German initiative. They hoped this would alleviate worries
about political interference, while commercializing the bonds. The attraction of
commercialization was straightforward – it promised a means to remove politics
from reparations. Sensitive to the implications for the existing Dawes Plan
bonds, the Morgan partners would not support any scheme that might imperil
their repayment. Morgan and Leffingwell felt that, if all went well, the proceeds
realized would be sufficient to allow the Allies to discharge their war debts to the
United States.18
Following the conclave in Paris with the Morgan partners, Parker Gilbert
went to London where he met Norman and, through the latter, the prime
minister, Stanley Baldwin, on 15–16 October. While there, Parker Gilbert
canvassed the names of possible delegates with Norman and Baldwin, as he had
done with Morgan and Leffingwell. Jack Morgan discussed candidates with
Norman on 23 October, as did Leffingwell during his visit to the Bank of
England on 12 November. All were agreed that Young was the best American
choice, while Norman made it known that he preferred Lord Revelstoke and Sir
Josiah Stamp as the British team.19
The meetings opened in Paris on 11 February 1929 with Young in the chair.
It soon became apparent that neither Morgan nor Young had read the tea leaves
Page 124
Page 124
correctly. While both men realized that the Germans, led by Schacht, wanted a
marked decrease in their reparations payments, and that the French, whose lead
delegate was Moreau, would resist reduction on the scale that the Germans
hoped to attain, they had failed to appreciate how wide the chasm was between
Paris and Berlin. Moreau wanted reparations payments that would be made at a
level commensurate with the French commitment to discharging their war debts
to the United States. Paris favoured commercialization on the grounds that it
would subject the Germans to market discipline. Should the Germans fail to
make the payments on commercialized reparations bonds, it would have
consequences for German credit on the international capital markets, thus
building in an incentive to comply. The looming August 1929 deadline for
ratification of the 1926 Mellon–Bérenger Agreement by the National Assembly
was also on French minds.20 Schacht wanted not only a reduction in the Dawes
Plan payments but the abolition of the Agent-General’s office and completion of
the French evacuation from the Rhineland, a list that Paris baulked at.
Two weeks after the meetings began, Young and Morgan were doubting
whether any agreement would be possible. As the delegates struggled, Émile
Francqui, the principal Belgian envoy, advanced the idea of an international bank
to handle reparations. This notion was not new. As far back as the 1880s such
schemes had been tendered. At the Genoa economic conference in 1922 the
delegates had accepted a suite of ideas that resembled what became the BIS.21
Schacht seized on Francqui’s proposal and repurposed it. Schacht envisaged an
international clearing house whose mandate would go well beyond reparations to
bolster European trade and economic development through credit creation.
Schacht hoped that German exports would benefit from credits granted to
developing states by this new institution. Young’s reaction was to consider how
these separate approaches might be utilized. To do so, he pressed into service Dr.
Walter Stewart, then an economic advisor to the Bank of England, Dr. W.
Page 125
Page 125
Randolph Burgess of the FRBNY and Shepard Morgan of the Agent-General’s
office to hammer out the details of the proposed international bank.22
Over the ensuing days, as Stewart, Burgess, and Shepard Morgan worked
on drafts, they consulted with Young who in turn discussed matters with Jack
Morgan and Lamont. Meeting on 5 March with Young and the drafting team,
Jack Morgan raised three chief points. First, in his view an international bank
should be a forum for the resolution of future international disputes. Secondly,
with this in mind, Jack Morgan argued that the wording of the draft should refer
throughout to the Reichsbank and not to the German government. His third
concern was that, as framed, objections might be raised that the proposed bank
would be trespassing on the territory of commercial banks.23 Jack Morgan and
Lamont – who shared this last fear – were animated by, and reflecting, the
perspective of J.A.M. de Sanchez and Jeremiah Smith Jr.
De Sanchez was a Morgan employee. He had been involved in analysing
the Morgan loans to France and Belgium in the mid-1920s, as well as
participating as an observer in the Locarno talks. De Sanchez was responsible
for generating much of the statistical data utilized by the American delegates
during the Young talks. An ardent free-market thinker, De Sanchez had doubts
about an international bank. He believed that its proposed functions were already
fulfilled adequately by existing commercial banks. Smith, who had been one of
the “money doctors” involved in Hungarian financial reconstruction, and was
close to Lamont, was also opposed, wondering where the capital required to fund
such a bank would come from. Young managed to mollify both Jack Morgan and
Lamont on these counts.24 This was perhaps easier accomplished than might be
thought. Jack Morgan and Lamont were in favour of ending the reparations and
war debts imbroglio. What they had not counted upon was opposition in New
York.
Page 126
Page 126
Cabling their partners on 11 March, Jack Morgan and Lamont touted the
plan. There was a pressing need to dispel the “old war atmosphere” and
eradicate “the war machinery” so that the German public would appreciate that
the page had been turned. The Morgan commitment to European stabilization
overrode Jack Morgan’s instinctive anti-German posture. The new bank would
efface the acrimony of the past by furnishing a venue where issues could be
worked out calmly between states. As part of its mandate Jack Morgan and
Lamont suggested that the international bank assume the duties of the Dawes
Loan Trustees. These ideas were too much for Leffingwell, who worried that the
international bank might compromise the autonomy of existing central banks.
Jack Morgan and Lamont changed tack, reminding New York that, without a
mechanism such as the proposed bank, existing obligations, notably the Dawes
Plan bonds, might be endangered by a program of unrestrained issues. This did
not soothe. On 14 March, following the publication of an article in the New York
Herald Tribune that forecast the new bank would have capital of $80–100
million, which would be furnished largely by private sources, Leffingwell,
Charles Steele, Junius Morgan, and George Whitney cabled tartly, “If there is
any idea of having private banks subscribe, we hope the privilege will not be
extended to private bankers.”25
Work on the BIS ploughed ahead. By 25 March its basic Charter and
Statutes were drafted, principally by Sir Charles Addis of the Hong Kong and
Shanghai Banking Corporation. A contrite Leffingwell retracted his earlier
remarks, telling Lamont “we so stupidly misunderstood your cable about the
International Bank.” Yet doubts lingered. Visiting Harrison and Burgess in mid-
April, Leffingwell aired his concerns. While eliminating the Agent-General’s
office would reduce animosity, he could not fathom how the BIS would survive.
Leffingwell told Harrison and Burgess that foreign exchange operations alone
Page 127
Page 127
would not suffice to keep the BIS in the black. When Harrison “laughingly”
suggested that he and Leffingwell should be the American directors, Leffingwell
refused flatly. It was not until May that Leffingwell abandoned his opposition to
the BIS.26
Two considerations drove this reversal. Jack Morgan and Lamont had
staked their prestige on the BIS. By embracing it, they had identified with it.
Leffingwell might not like the BIS but he could not disavow his partners.
Connected to this was the second reason: Jack Morgan and Lamont believed in
the work of the Young committee and in the BIS. As Lamont wrote to Young on
24 March 1929, the committee had a chance to create a “new era” in
international relations, based upon the amicable cooperation of the six powers.27
Months later, attempting to persuade a reluctant Philip Snowden, then chancellor
of the exchequer, of the virtues of the Young Plan and the BIS, Lamont
remarked, “[o]ne cannot but help to see the need for new forms of international
financial machinery to carry out the vast financial movements of the present
day.”28 The Young Plan and the BIS were that machinery.
The struggle over the BIS was interwoven with the tussle inside the Young
committee to reach agreement on reparations. After 25 March, discussion
returned to the central issue: how much would Germany pay over what period?
Young employed Jack Morgan and Lamont to batter Schacht and Moreau. On
separate occasions, acting at the behest of Young, Morgan and Lamont prodded
Schacht to increase what Germany was willing to pay while extracting from
Moreau a commitment to reduce what France was willing to accept. Neither
Schacht nor Moreau succumbed.29 Young attempted to break the stalemate by
proposing new figures in a memorandum circulated to the delegates. Predictably,
his démarche failed to attract consensus. Damagingly, it sparked open
disputation with Washington. Young was aware that any association of
reparations with war debts would elicit a powerful reaction from Washington.30
Page 128
Page 128
Over the following days, a series of cables, between the American delegation in
Paris on the one hand and the Hoover administration on the other, were
exchanged. Young endeavoured to maintain his independence in the face of the
evident fear in Washington that he and his colleagues were too compliant. Young
threatened to resign on 20 April, after which a modus vivendi was struck. The
insistence of the secretary of state, Henry L. Stimson, and Hoover that there be
no acknowledged connection between war debts and reparations was accepted
by Young and in turn he was given the latitude to reach a deal.31
For the Morgan partners, this episode contributed to their unease about
Hoover, just as it freshened Hoover’s apprehension about J.P. Morgan & Co.32
Prior to Hoover’s ascension to the presidency, the Morgan partners had had
relatively little to do with him (see Figure 3.1). During Hoover’s tenure as
secretary of commerce, especially in 1921–22, when American policy vis-à-vis
loans to Europe was being fashioned, there had been interaction which petered
out. J.P. Morgan & Co. would have preferred another term for Coolidge, with
whom their ex-partner Morrow was a personal friend. This did not mean that the
partners were opposed to Hoover, though Leffingwell had a dim view of Hoover
dating from his stint in the Treasury. In 1928 a scathing memorandum he had
written about Hoover a decade earlier came into the hands of Oswald G.
Villard’s The Nation. Initially, Villard agreed not to publish following a plea
from Leffingwell, but months later The Nation did so with the New York Times
picking up the story. In his memorandum Leffingwell had said, “Hoover knows
nothing about finance, nothing about exchange and nothing about economics …
Hoover … has never failed to be wrong when his duties confronted him with
problems of that nature.” While the New York Times accompanied its 1928
article with an apology issued by Leffingwell to Hoover in 1921, the episode
was embarrassing but revealing, for Leffingwell never lost his conviction that
Page 129
Page 129
Hoover was overrated.33 This said, the partners, save Leffingwell, were
Republicans who understood that they had to work with Hoover’s administration
and could not sever themselves from Washington’s wishes, however ill-
considered they might deem these wishes. With the new administration only a
few months old, an open break was unthinkable. Even in much more dire
circumstances, in 1932, amidst the ravages of mass unemployment and
economic desolation, the partners could not bring themselves to abandon
Hoover.
Figure 3.1 President Calvin Coolidge, Secretary of the Treasury Andrew
Mellon, and Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover on the steps of the White
House, 1928.
Harris & Ewing Collection, Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs
Division, LC-DIG-hec-35070.
Nevertheless, Morgan reservations were reciprocated. While it has been
suggested that Lamont was Hoover’s “chief adviser” on the Street, this
Page 130
Page 130
overstates the case.34 Theodore Joslin, Hoover’s press secretary, identified
Lamont as one of a number of industrialists and bankers whose views Hoover
solicited. It would be more accurate to say that Hoover did not have a prominent
Wall Street figure as a confidant. Hoover had never found Wall Street congenial.
Throughout his presidency he regarded Wall Street with a mixture of contempt,
scorn, and mistrust.35 Hoover preferred the counsel of Henry M. Robinson, of
the First National Bank of Los Angeles, on banking and financial matters.
Robinson married extensive international experience with California residency,
demarcating a literal distance from New York which appealed to Hoover. It was
Robinson who acted as the go-between for Hoover in his dealings with Wall
Street. While Hoover might have to deal with J.P. Morgan & Co. as the
acknowledged leader of the Street, his attitude toward the Corner was
ambivalent. Hoover’s doubts about the Corner, about the Young report, and
about the BIS were reinforced in late July 1929 by an administration study that
warned the BIS might serve as a vehicle for the aggrandizement of Morgan
power.36
Underpinning these fears was a shift in Hoover’s outlook on Europe since
his days at the head of Belgian relief. Kendrick Clements, in his excellent
biography, has argued persuasively that Hoover’s assessment of Europe was an
amalgam of conflicting impulses. Hoover understood that the United States
needed a stable, prosperous Europe, though he mistrusted European motives and
designs. Hoover wanted the United States to be as independent as possible from
Europe but favoured American membership in the League of Nations and the
World Court. He pursued repayment of war debts, espoused protective tariffs,
and championed the expansion of American business at the expense of European
interests. Clements concludes: “His extensive international experience, instead
of making him more supportive of a policy of cooperation and collaboration to
Page 131
Page 131
stabilize
the
international
economy,
rather
reinforced
his
economic
nationalism.”37
Hoover’s peregrination from internationalist to nationalist was not singular.
He was symbolic of the transformation of the Republican Party in the 1920s. The
Republican Party was a congeries of competing groups, loosely split in
economic terms into nationalists and internationalists. From the 1920–21
depression and the Fordney–McCumber Tariff of 1922, the tide within the party
inexorably moved toward the nationalists. The reason for this was simple: the
domestic manufacturers who benefited from tariffs were more numerous, had a
far larger workforce, and in electoral terms were able to mobilize their influence
more effectively. Hoover was their champion and his triumph in 1928 reflected
their shared victory. The contretemps surrounding war debts did not help the
internationalists within the Republican Party, but they were losing ground
irrespective of this in the 1920s. The Smoot–Hawley Tariff of 1930, which the
Morgan firm opposed, as did nearly all Republican internationalists, stamped the
victory of the nationalist camp.38
The dispute in April 1929 between Young, Morgan, and Lamont on the one
hand and the Hoover administration on the other was camouflaged because they
had to maintain a working relationship, made more necessary by Schacht’s
recklessness and the death of Lord Revelstoke. Schacht, whom the veteran Paris-
based journalist Sisley Huddleston described during the talks as “the most
tactless, the most aggressive and the most irascible person I have ever seen in
public life,” alienated his fellow delegates in an ill-conceived statement on 17
April (see Figure 3.2).39 Earlier, Schacht had indicated to Young and Morgan
that he was thinking along the lines of Germany reclaiming some of its former
colonies as well as chunks of the Polish Corridor if it had to bear the ongoing
burden of what he deemed excessive reparations. When Schacht raised this
Page 132
Page 132
possibility in conjunction with a stipulation that a payment of 1.65 billion marks
annually for 37 years was the maximum that Germany could bear, the uproar that
ensued brought the discussions to the brink of dissolution, an outcome that was
avoided in part, as Liaquat Ahamed has remarked, by Revelstoke’s death on 19
April giving Young the chance to declare a recess.40 When the conference
reconvened, a chastened Schacht, who had been instructed tersely to return to
Berlin for consultation, where he received orders to dismiss his fantasies of
territorial gain, was more cooperative.41 Even with Schacht hobbled the
delegates struggled to reach a deal. The problem was now not Schacht, for he
had signalled his willingness to accept Young’s 2.05 billion marks figure, but the
recalcitrance of the French and, to a lesser degree, the Belgians. A deal was not
reached until 29 May and it was announced to the press on 7 June 1929.
Figure 3.2 Hjalmar Schacht and Montagu Norman, 1930.
Imagno/Hulton Archive/Getty Images.
It would be misleading to portray the Morgan reaction to the settlement as
unequivocally positive. Weary of the taxing negotiations, Jack Morgan’s
Page 133
Page 133
enthusiasm had flagged. In a jaundiced letter to Bartow he wrote, “When or if
ever I get home, it will be a long time before you find me trying to help along
the cause of peace in the World. I am fed up on it and it is of no use anyhow.”
His partners had qualms. Cochran was opposed. Lamont and Leffingwell
followed Jack Morgan’s lead. Lamont saw the committee report as a means to
pacify an unruly continent. As for Leffingwell, he expressed his outlook bluntly:
“I defy anybody to detest them [the Germans] more than I do. Just the same I
think it is discreditable, after licking them good and thorough ten years ago, to
go on kicking them and mauling them about.”42
There remained the BIS. The Hoover administration was heartened by the
knowledge that such a reliably Republican and orthodox forum as the
Commercial and Financial Chronicle had expressed its worry, lobbying for a
prohibition on Federal Reserve system participation in the planned
“International super bank.” An open expression of disapproval of the BIS by
Stimson led Jack Morgan to decry the “fools” in Washington.43 Following a
luncheon at the White House on 25 June, where Young, Jack Morgan, Lamont,
and Nelson Perkins met with Hoover, Stimson, and Mellon to discuss the Young
report and the BIS, a thinly veiled New York Times article demarcated the divide
starkly (see Figure 3.3). The piece remarked that, while “prominent financiers”
conceded that perhaps the BIS had been “somewhat overpraised,” negative
consequences might ensue should the BIS embark upon open-market operations
without reference to the Federal Reserve. The article concluded with a blunt
statement that Wall Street expected that a J.P. Morgan & Co. partner would join
the BIS board.44 Even the dullest reader could recognize that J.P. Morgan & Co.
and the FRBNY differed with the Hoover administration.
Page 134
Page 134
Figure 3.3 Members of the American Reparations Commission, in conference
with the Secretary of State Henry L. Stimson, 1929.
In the front row, seated left to right: Jack Morgan; Secretary Stimson; and
Owen D. Young, chairman. In the back row, left to right: Thomas W. Lamont;
Thomas Nelson Perkins; Undersecretary of State Joseph P. Cotton; and
Assistant Secretary of State William R. Castle.
Harris & Ewing Collection, Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs
Division, LC-DIG-hec-35421 (digital file from original negative).
Not all difficulties were found in Washington. Two days before the Young
report was announced, a new Labour government took office in Britain. Ramsay
MacDonald became prime minister on 5 June 1929 with Snowden at the
Exchequer. Labour’s stance on the Young report was guarded. Snowden
favoured the abolition of reparations but, if this was not forthcoming, he was
adamant that Britain’s share of reparations should not be diminished. The Young
committee report recommended a reduction in the amount that Britain should
receive, on the order of £2.4 million per year over a 37-year period. Within
Whitehall, senior officials at the Treasury and the Foreign Office favoured
Page 135
Page 135
accession. One important figure, Sir Frederick Leith-Ross, the Deputy-
Controller of Finance in the Treasury, dissented. Leith-Ross shared Snowden’s
apprehension about the Young Plan and encouraged him to adopt a bellicose
stance. Late in July 1929 Snowden informed Parliament that Britain would be
seeking changes when a conference convened to discuss the Young Plan opened
at The Hague on 6 August. Paris had no such trepidation, viewing the proposed
settlement as the most favourable to be obtained in the circumstances. France
had ratified the report and signalled a desire to settle the other outstanding issue,
the creation of an organizing committee that would frame the structure of the
BIS.45
It was in this context that Jack Morgan and Lamont returned to Europe.
While Grenfell was antipathetic to Labour, as befitted a banker and Tory MP (he
referred consistently to Labour as “Reds and Socialists”), he made an exception
for MacDonald and Snowden.46 MacDonald was known to the Morgan partners
as an amiable politician whose ideological complexion was less red and more
blush with every passing year. Snowden was dour and ascetic. By 1929 any trace
of his Fabian Socialism had washed away. Snowden believed in free trade and
balanced budgets and after 1925 harboured an “obsession” with keeping Britain
on the gold standard. His relations with the financiers of the City of London
were, unsurprisingly, excellent.47 In his economic comportment, Snowden was
the ideal Labour chancellor for J.P. Morgan & Co.
Some of Snowden’s appeal was offset by his belligerence. Ahead of The
Hague conference opening, Lamont and Jack Morgan had discussed with Parker
Gilbert the delicate question of the membership of the BIS organization
committee. Worryingly, the British were exhibiting the “greatest reserve.”
Lamont’s conversations with Moreau and Pierre Quesnay of the Bank of France
later that month demonstrated these concerns.48 The French feared that Snowden
Page 136
Page 136
was out to secure changes to the Young Plan. Raymond Poincaré, then premier,
believed that the sluice gates of revision would open if Snowden attained his
objective.49 To counter this prospect, Moreau cabled Harrison and Jack Morgan,
with the aim of securing American support. On the eve of The Hague
Conference, an entente between the French and J.P. Morgan & Co., backed by
the FRBNY, had emerged.
There were two principal issues at stake at The Hague: first, ratification of
the Young committee report so that the plan could become operational; second,
finalizing the organization committee for the BIS. The Morgan partners were
aghast at the possibility that Snowden’s truculence might doom the Young Plan.
They had trouble, as Jack Morgan put it, understanding his “incomprehensible
attitude.”50 They shared this worry with France, though French concerns were
transcendental. Paris was opposed to Snowden’s declared intent to revise the
percentages received in German reparations payments. Lamont and Jack Morgan
were willing to countenance alteration in the shares allocated, provided doing so
did not mean the destruction of the plan.
Morgan efforts were devoted to limiting the damage that Snowden might
inflict. A coordinated approach was adopted. Having made common cause with
Paris, Jack Morgan and Lamont made sure that Young was kept informed, while
simultaneously relying upon Grenfell and their excellent relations with Norman
to rally him to the cause. On 9 August Jack Morgan, Parker Gilbert, and Norman
met. The discussion was fearful rather than productive. As Jack Morgan told his
New York partners, “Sorry to be so vague but Snowden’s extraordinary methods
of negotiation have thrown the whole thing into such confusion that no one can
see his way anywhere and the whole thing is clouded by the fear of the complete
rupture of the conference before it has fairly begun.” Norman’s worries arose
from a familiar spectre – he was alarmed, as he told Harrison, that Snowden’s
Page 137
Page 137
undiplomatic approach might spark a crisis in Germany, with a threat to the gold
standard ensuing. Several days later Norman had regained his equanimity, telling
Harrison that matters looked better and that he had kept Jack Morgan apprised of
developments.51
While Jack Morgan dealt with Norman, Lamont was tackling Ramsay
MacDonald and Snowden. Lamont met with both men at the urging of Addis and
Stamp in an effort to sway Snowden. Lamont’s efforts were unsuccessful as the
chancellor made it clear that he was determined to win a larger percentage of
reparations for Britain come what may. MacDonald proved of little assistance
and indeed may have planted in Snowden’s mind the notion that Lamont was
angling for an invitation to the conference proper. This was not the case, but
Snowden thought it was.52 Lamont’s protestations were unavailing. Quesnay
was urging Lamont to go to the conference, but Lamont declined, telling
Quesnay that Snowden was already resentful of his efforts and “the less he saw
of experts, American and otherwise, the better.”53 This did not prevent Lamont
from penning a long personal letter to Snowden on 20 August. Lamont laid out
the vision of the BIS that France, J.P. Morgan & Co., and Norman had agreed.
He argued that the BIS should be free of political interference, that the role of
private banks should be minimal, and that central banks should be at the heart of
the BIS. Lamont stressed that the world needed new financial machinery to
supplant the “archaic and casual” practices of the past.54 It is unlikely that this
missive had any meaningful effect upon Snowden, in part because Grenfell
vetted the letter with Norman and Jack Morgan before it was despatched to
Snowden, by which time the crisis at The Hague Conference had come and
gone.55
The Morgan partners never appreciated what motivated Snowden in August
1929. They failed to understand that Snowden was interested in securing a
Page 138
Page 138
domestic political triumph. He ignored Norman throughout August, brushed
Lamont aside, and was prevented from forcing a breakdown at the conference
only by MacDonald and Arthur Henderson, the foreign secretary, who grew
weary of Snowden’s intransigence. It was their intervention that secured
accommodation. Once a compromise was reached at The Hague and Snowden
returned home to the plaudits of the press and public opinion having recouped £2
million more per year, his interest in the BIS, never strong to begin with,
lapsed.56
After Snowden’s theatrics there remained the question of the BIS. Lamont
had told Quesnay that J.P. Morgan & Co. was not willing to participate in the
BIS if the British Treasury view that greater government control was a sine qua
non prevailed.57 Given that the Hoover administration had rejected Federal
Reserve involvement, this threat carried weight as only J.P. Morgan & Co. had
the necessary stature in the American financial community to sponsor the BIS.
Hoover’s doubts about the BIS remained strong, though they were mollified
somewhat by Robinson, whose name had been floated by Jack Morgan and
Lamont as a possible American representative on the BIS. Robinson told Hoover
in late October 1929 following a conversation with Young that there were
“sound” reasons for creating the bank as it might “stabilize the European
position.”58 While this might suggest that Hoover was malleable, his
administration’s tepid endorsement complicated the search for acceptable
American representatives on the organizing committee. Jack Morgan took the
lead as Lamont had returned to the United States. Parker Gilbert, Harrison,
Young, and the New York partners were canvassed. At length Jackson Reynolds,
the president of the First National Bank of New York and Melvin Traylor, the
president of the First National Bank of Chicago, were chosen. As Reynolds later
acknowledged, Jack Morgan and Young had picked him.59 To support Reynolds
Page 139
Page 139
and Traylor, de Sanchez acted as secretary. The organizing committee met for
the first time at Baden-Baden on 3 October 1929.
Over the following weeks, the committee drafted the BIS statues,
determining its governance, its capital, and its functions. Jack Morgan directed
Morgan participation, counselling Reynolds, who had been elected chair of the
committee. Complicating matters were two factors. Schacht, who was not one of
the German delegates at Baden-Baden was exploring the possibility of external
loans while the Baden-Baden discussions were in progress. Jack Morgan,
George Whitney, and the Morgan Grenfell partner Charles F. Whigham met with
Schacht early in October about the possibility of a loan for the German railways.
These feelers did not yield anything concrete, in part because the Morgan
partners were concerned that any operation might jeopardize the anticipated
Young Plan bond commercialization.60 This did not deter Schacht, who
continued to search for lenders, contacting Kreuger & Toll about a loan based on
the German match monopoly, while also sounding out Dillon, Read & Co. These
initiatives soon became known to the Morgan partners. Alarmed, Jack Morgan
consulted with Norman and Parker Gilbert as to how they might be thwarted.61
The second consideration clouding the Baden-Baden discussions was the posture
of the British Treasury representatives, who were, according to Reynolds and de
Sanchez, obstructive and duplicitous. They were failing to keep the Bank of
England informed while insisting that the BIS be limited in its scope.
Tensions came to a head in late October and early November. On 25
October an agitated Reynolds informed the heads of delegation at Baden-Baden
that, if they wanted American participation in the BIS, there could be no
government interference. As Reynolds apprised Jack Morgan, both the British
and the Germans were occasioning difficulties. Jack Morgan, after consulting
with Norman and confirming that the Treasury representatives were acting
independently of the Bank of England, wrote Reynolds. Jack Morgan told him
Page 140
Page 140
that, if the BIS was to work, the cooperation of J.P. Morgan & Co. was essential
and laid out eight stipulations: the BIS had to be controlled by its directors; it
should be a bank for central banks and only have accounts in the name of central
banks and governments; when the BIS wanted to act in the market of any
country it must do so through the central bank of the state in question; the BIS
must be empowered to deal with the German annuities as well as have the power
to act as trustee for bonds of German annuities; it should contract with the
governments interested in German annuities and be paid for this service; there
should be no government control over the BIS save for the involved central bank
heads; the latter should select the directors who would run the BIS; and finally,
the directors should have “ample power” to draft the rules and regulations
governing the BIS.62
At the request of de Sanchez, Jack Morgan lobbied Moreau through Dean
Jay, adding Moreau’s backing to Norman’s.63 As Harrison was already in
agreement and the Hoover administration had de facto left matters in the hands
of J.P. Morgan & Co., this had the intended effect of strengthening Reynolds’
negotiating stance. When the conference broke on 13 November, the statutes and
regulations governing the BIS had been settled on the basis favoured by J.P.
Morgan & Co., the FRBNY, the Bank of England, and the Bank of France. Basle
was selected as the headquarters of the BIS. It was agreed that the BIS would
begin life with capital of $100 million, the American tranche of which would be
subscribed to by a consortium of private banks led by J.P. Morgan & Co. Left
undecided was the roster of directors and the thorny question of the executive
members, the president, the vice-president, and the general manager of the
BIS.64
*****
Page 141
Page 141
While the delegates laboured at Basle, the NYSE crashed. Analysis of the 1929
Crash has languished as economists and historians have focused on a depression
causally divorced from the stock market collapse. The line of explanation
advanced by Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz in 1963 in their Monetary
History paid careful attention to the failures of monetary policy as contributing
to the Depression but had little to say about the Crash, an inclination followed in
monetarist accounts generally.65 As has been observed, monetarist explanations
are often parochial explanations, mesmerized by monetary policy in the United
States.66 For the Morgan partners, this was nonsensical. The House of Morgan
was international, its orientation transatlantic rather than internal. Did this
resolutely international culture convey a different appreciation of looming
trouble in 1929? Bell thought so, as did Allen. Robert Boyce in his recent major
work, The Great Interwar Crisis, has suggested that “leading international
bankers privately acknowledged as early as July 1927 that the international
payments system was severely dislocated.” In this reading, the failure of
Norman’s effort in collaboration with Harrison to convince the Federal Reserve
Board in Washington to raise rates in February 1929 was symptomatic of a pre-
existing crisis, as money continued to flow to the United States to chase the
returns offered by soaring call loan rates. With little recourse, Norman was
forced to raise rates at home. Desperate, he told Jack Morgan in March 1929 that
the gold standard was threatened, importuning the latter to press the case home
with Mellon.67 The connections – among rising stocks, the gold standard, the
ongoing Young committee talks, the adverse UK balance of payments capital
account, and the crisis that blossomed in the fall – are apparent.
Less certain is that the Morgan partners were persuaded by Norman’s fears.
There is evidence of consternation. With Jack Morgan and Lamont in Paris
through much of 1929, Leffingwell was best positioned to interpret what was
Page 142
Page 142
transpiring in the United States. Leffingwell had been following the efforts by
Harrison to get the Federal Reserve Board in Washington to change its policy of
“direct action.” Harrison’s endeavours in this regard predated Norman’s
intervention.68 “Direct action” was a policy of moral suasion, warning banks of
the dangers of overextending credit. Its aim was to check the funds flowing to
the call loan market. Harrison believed “direct action” was inadequate, as did
Leffingwell. Harrison favoured a rise in rates, a course of action backed by
Norman. Rate increases, Harrison averred, would combat the rise in the stock
market and thus reduce the attractiveness of the American market to Europeans.
In Leffingwell’s assessment Harrison was struggling to do what he could to
rectify the errors made by Strong and Norman. The two had been complicit in a
policy of easy money that had made it possible for Britain to stay on the gold
standard but that had the unfortunate consequence of a flood of cheap money
fuelling the speculation in the stock market. Leffingwell predicted, “we are
going to have a world credit crisis. If sharp and swift as it should be, then it will
be brief and not too serious for business. If long and dreary and protracted …
then of course business will suffer.” Chernow suggested that these remarks are
proof that Leffingwell foresaw a looming smash-up but neglects to mention
Leffingwell’s caveats.69
Leffingwell’s letter to Lamont closed with a postscript: “This is all my own
spleen. I haven’t had a chance to show it around the partners here. So don’t take
it too seriously.” Leffingwell confessed he was having one of his “gloomy
days.” Lamont needed little convincing. He told Leffingwell that he and Jack
Morgan had met Norman who had warned them of the threat to the gold standard
as Boyce has noted. Lamont, however, found Norman “panicky” and
unconvincing. Lamont did not agree that the gold standard was in jeopardy. In
his view the stock market was independent of monetary policy. Boosting money
Page 143
Page 143
market rates would only hurt business and do nothing to stabilize the exchange.
This said, Lamont confessed that Jack Morgan did not concur, taking Norman’s
warning more seriously.70 Shortly thereafter, Leffingwell confided to Jack
Morgan that he was certain that Harrison would win his struggle with a Federal
Reserve Board in Washington dominated by Adolph Miller. Leffingwell thought
Miller’s closeness to Hoover was part of the problem. There was little for
Norman to do, Leffingwell advised. Harrison must prevail. On 5 April Jack
Morgan replied that he was willing to watch events unfold rather than seeking to
intervene.71
Two months later, as agreement neared in Paris, Leffingwell returned to
monetary policy, the gold standard, and the markets. Writing to Grenfell, he
observed that while “direct action” should be abandoned in favour of the
instruments that the Federal Reserve had at its disposal – manipulating the
discount rate and buying and selling bills – he retained faith in Harrison. More
generally, he doubted the wisdom of “having Federal Reserve Banks smash our
stock market – partly because the darn thing seems to be indestructible and
partly because the Federal Reserve Bank’s club, though it looks hard and heavy,
may be only made of papier maché.” For Leffingwell, the strength of the
American economy was decisive: “Business here is in fact good; commodity
prices are on the whole stable; our own wealth is great; and speculative
opportunities here, quite as much as high money rates, attract European
capital.”72 Until these conditions changed, there was little to be done. Harrison
was already fighting the good fight; there was no need to badger the Hoover
administration on Federal Reserve Board policy.
If the Morgan partners were less worried about monetary policy imperilling
the course of the American economy and the stock market than has been
suggested by historians, what was the Morgan assessment? Two observations
Page 144
Page 144
may be made. The first is that until October 1929 Morgan business activity was
routine; the second is that the Morgan partners were taken by surprise by the
Crash. Leaving aside the Young Plan and the BIS, these were quiet months for
J.P. Morgan & Co. It is true that the bank ventured into the world of holding
companies. United Corporation was created in January 1929 in collaboration
with Bonbright & Co. in the public utility field as a competitor to Samuel
Insull’s Midwestern power-generation empire.73 The Alleghany Corporation
followed closely thereafter for the Van Sweringen railroad empire, though the
third Morgan sponsored holding company launched in 1929, Standard Brands,
did not appear until September. The three were departures for J.P. Morgan &
Co., stamping a return to stock sponsorship in a manner last seen under Pierpont
Morgan. Yet it was stock flotation with a twist: J.P. Morgan & Co. did not make
a public offering of the stock in these holding companies, leaving that to
syndicates headed by others. The Morgan share of the stock was distributed to
what became known as “preferred lists” of family, friends, and business and
political notables, as had been done in the case of Johns-Manville two years
earlier.74 Neither United nor Alleghany nor Standard Brands made much of a
mark on the markets in 1929 – they were among a number of holding company
offerings that were dwarfed by the flood of money into the even more attractive
investment trusts and did not have any notable effect on the direction of stocks.
Their real importance lay in the future when they were featured in the Pecora
hearings of 1933, becoming a political issue of the first rank.
Worries were expressed that the competition between United and Insull was
consolidating the sector to an unhealthy degree. United sparked a resurgence of
Money Trust rhetoric, with, among others, the governor of New York, Franklin
D. Roosevelt, asking what the new corporation might mean for the development
of hydroelectric power on the St. Lawrence river.75 Alleghany’s formation was
accepted as another instance of the ambition of the Van Sweringen brothers. The
Page 145
Page 145
railroad industry, long a field of intense Morgan activity, was struggling and
consolidation was necessary. The critical questions were, how should it proceed
and which companies would emerge from consolidation? J.P. Morgan & Co. bet
on the Van Sweringens as the answers to these questions. As it turned out, this
was a very poor wager.
Morgan investment banking activity in 1929 was steady rather than frenetic.
No sovereign loan was floated by the firm. There was only a total of six bond
issues led by the bank during the year. Participation in offerings managed by
others was more significant. The thirty transactions (not including the two
Alleghany offerings) in which J.P. Morgan & Co. made a financial commitment
ranged from well-known companies such as Procter & Gamble and Bethlehem
Steel, to the fifteen-year bonds offered by the Porto Rican American Tobacco
Company, to various railway stocks, to a Chilean bank, and to a share in a bond
issue for the state of Minas Gerais in Brazil.76 Precisely how much of this stayed
on the books of the bank is unknown, though it seems little did.77
As for the rise in the stock market and the subsequent Crash, in January
1929 Whigham wrote Bartow inquiring whether he could recommend a list of
stocks for a friend to invest in. Six months later, in June 1929, the Morgan
Grenfell partner Michael Herbert made a similar request. He had, he told Bartow,
a “nest egg” on account with J.P. Morgan & Co. in the United States that he
wanted to invest in stocks. Herbert added that his brother as well as a close
friend also had cash at their disposal that they wished to deploy in the American
market.78 Could Bartow advise which stocks to purchase? Shortly before the
market collapse in mid-October, Jack Morgan informed his sons that he wanted
to sell 5,000 shares of Johns-Manville at 205 or better and 5,000 shares at 210 or
better. After consulting with Bartow, Harry and Junius Morgan advised
postponement until the announcement of Johns-Manville earnings. Evidently
neither Bartow nor Harry Morgan, nor Junius Morgan, expected the Crash.
Page 146
Page 146
Subsequently Harry and Junius Morgan cabled their father that, while the market
was “weak,” they had concluded after reviewing his portfolio that he was better
off sitting tight. On 7 November, after the fall, a contrite Junius cabled his father:
“Sorry about your Johns-Manville. No doubt in light of recent events my advice
was bad. I still have mine too.”79 Lamont’s timing was better: he liquidated
some of his holdings, but even so, when the Crash came, he suffered heavily.80
Edward Lamont has stated that the firm, as distinct from the personal holdings of
the partners, had sold the bulk of its stocks before the Crash, which seems to
have been happenstance rather than prescience.81
In the weeks leading to the Crash, the markets yawed. After a sharp drop in
the first week of October the NYSE bounded upward before plunging once more
between 14 and 18 October. It was in this context that Hoover sounded out
Lamont, through Robinson, for counsel. The request provoked discussion among
the partners. On 7 October Leffingwell penned a letter suggesting what should
be included in a reply. His advice was to be blunt: “The protracted bull market in
stocks seems to have passed all bounds. I think it is diverting too much credit
from business but above all it is diverting the attention of the people from their
work to gambling.” Leffingwell attributed some of the responsibility for this
state of affairs to the policy of the Federal Reserve Board, commenting that its
efforts at moral suasion had substituted political judgement for what properly
should be decisions on money rates made by the Federal Reserve Banks. The
investment trusts were another factor impelling upward movement in stock
prices. Leffingwell argued that the “rapid growth” of trusts boosted stock prices
through their investing activities and the concurrent rise in the price of their own
stock. While he worried that the trusts might have a baleful effect on corporate
governance, he was especially fearful of their influence in the banking sector.
Leffingwell warned that the intrusion of investment trusts into the banking sector
Page 147
Page 147
was “thoroughly bad” as the trusts threatened the fundamental tie between bank
and depositor. As a partial solution, Leffingwell recommended prohibiting
investment trusts from holding stocks in chains of banks. Beyond this, there
needed to be liberalization in the banking laws to allow for expedited growth of
branch banking which would both help to stabilize the banking industry and
thwart the predations of the investment trusts.82
Much of what Leffingwell advocated was challenged by his partners. As
was typically the case within the bank for important letters or memoranda for
external consumption, drafts were circulated for comment. This practice helped
to forge consensus. When Leffingwell’s letter was circulated, there was strong
disagreement with his characterization that stocks were overvalued or that
Americans had succumbed to gambling fever. Nor was there acceptance of his
assertion that the stock market was sopping up capital better utilized by business.
His partners thought that Leffingwell had overstated the dangers of investment
trusts. Tighter regulation of investment trusts was, in their view, unnecessary.83
The final composition of the letter rested with Lamont. He was responsible for
interacting with Washington. Lamont was not the man to douse Hoover with a
cold shower of pessimism. His response was not insincere; it reflected the
preponderant view within J.P. Morgan & Co.84
The letter to Hoover of 19 October 1929 was long (eighteen pages) and on
the whole positive. After admitting that there were elements of concern, Lamont
remarked “nonetheless, there is nothing in the present situation to suggest that
normal economic forces, working to correct excesses and to restore the proper
balance of affairs, are not still operative and adequate.” He dismissed talk of a
speculative boom or of a gambling mentality in sentences that were the antithesis
of Leffingwell. According to Lamont, more efficient financial machinery was
drawing the savings of Americans into the stock markets. The bull market
reflected this efficacy as well as the growing conviction of Americans that stocks
Page 148
Page 148
were a good long-term investment. Lamont took umbrage with the notion of a
speculative bubble, arguing that stock averages were misleading. Companies in
areas such as fertilizer, lumber, paper, oil, and cement, had seen their stock
prices languish. Where there had been appreciation, it was not excessive when
measured in years rather than months. As for the surge in speculative loans in the
call money market, Lamont attributed this to the growing number of stock
offerings coupled with a shift in corporate financial operations. Companies were
increasingly issuing stock, foregoing bonds, and shunning borrowing from
banks.
Lamont followed Leffingwell in his remarks about the Federal Reserve
Board, observing, in sentences borrowed directly from him, that its policy errors
had contributed to price growth on the stock market. On investment trusts
Lamont differed from Leffingwell. Lamont agreed that they had proliferated,
perhaps too luxuriantly, but he told Hoover that the market for trusts was “sated”
and starting to correct its excesses. He conceded that the relationship between
investment trusts and banks needed to be watched, but the extension of branch
banking was a remedy of greater importance than curtailing the investment
trusts.
Lamont’s conclusion was rousing: the overall situation of the American
economy was favourable, the place of the United States in the world was
extraordinarily auspicious – indeed the most fortunate globally – and there was
no reason to take any rash steps, legislative or otherwise, to hinder prosperity.
For the future, the prospects looked bright, particularly because the
administration was taking steps to check the greatest possible threat to American
well-being, namely war, through its championing of disarmament talks, a
reference to the naval discussions slated for London in the upcoming year.85 A
clearer expression of Morgan optimism could not be found.
Page 149
Page 149
In his memoirs Hoover observed sourly that the memorandum makes
“curious reading today.”86 Robinson, writing to Hoover on 25 October, after the
stock market had fallen precipitously on 23–24 October, judged Lamont’s letter
“conservative” and deemed its counsel banal, as it was. He advised Hoover,
“From my viewpoint, there are greater dangers and greater troubles in the
situation than the memorandum would indicate and I am inclined to think that
most of the bankers and industrialists would feel that this is true.”87 Lamont was
aware that the letter was bland. He told Jack Morgan, whom he sent a copy, that
“almost all that it contains is essentially obvious.” Blandness was by design, for
Lamont did not want Hoover to act; he had no intention of recommending
Leffingwell’s bolder prescription. The letter is more indicative of the state of
mind of the Morgan partners than of its policy impact. Egan, the Morgan staffer
who worked closely with Lamont in handling public relations, met with the
president shortly after the letter was sent. Hoover had not yet read it. While he
promised to do so, he told Egan that he favoured inaction, a statement that was
undoubtedly welcome.88
Events overtook the president. On Wednesday 23 October, the NYSE
suffered a sharp drop on heavy volume of 6.4 million shares. The Dow Jones
Industrial Index fell 20 points, from 325 to 305. The following day, 24 October,
was “Black Thursday.” The market broke. Waves of selling overwhelmed the
NYSE, which found itself incapable of keeping up with the volume of trades.
The ensuing chaos, both within and without the NYSE and across the country,
has been portrayed vividly in many accounts. Over the following weeks the
market recorded a precipitous drop. The Dow Jones Industrial Index bottomed at
198 at the end of trading on 13 November. The date 14 November marked the
end of the Crash. Thereafter, the market moved smartly up to 248 on the Dow,
where it finished the year.89
Page 150
Page 150
The Morgan role in the drama is well known. Generally, it has been seen as
ineffectual. Worth recalling is the experience of the senior Morgan partners –
especially Jack Morgan, Lamont, and Leffingwell – when confronted with
panics. They had lived through and participated in confronting the paroxysms of
1907 and 1920–21. Having done so, past trials infused a view that panics, while
daunting, were a feature of capitalism, had been mastered, and thus, while to be
respected for the damage they could wreak, were not to be feared unduly. Nor
did panic necessarily betoken anything more fundamental for the direction of the
American economy. The Morgan role was not to restore order – that was the
province of the Federal Reserve – but to try to meet the expectations of the
Street bestowed by their acknowledged position at the head of the hierarchy of
the Wall Street financial community. They had to act, even if privately the
partners appreciated that their influence was limited.
Consequently, on 24 October, Lamont coordinated a response in keeping
with what popular opinion, both on the Street and without, anticipated. Leading
bankers met in the Morgan Library, an evocative move recalling 1907.
Widespread publicity attended the gathering, as papers across the United States
trumpeted the news. Present were Albert Wiggin, the chairman of the Chase
National Bank, William Potter, the chairman of the Guaranty Trust Co., Seward
Prosser of the Bankers Trust, and Charles Mitchell of the National City Bank.
Absent from this initial gathering on 24 October were the Bakers, George Senior
and Junior, who controlled the First National Bank. Subsequently the Bakers
committed First National to the effort, while some financial luminaries, such as
the Guggenheim brothers, contributed funds but did not attend the regular
meetings of what became known as the “Bankers’ Pool.” Still others, such as
Young, offered counsel, while later Chellis Austin, the president of the Equitable
Trust, a Rockefeller-affiliated institution, became part of the group. The group
Page 151
Page 151
acted both publicly and privately. The former had its most famous expression on
24 October through Richard Whitney, brother of George Whitney, and the vice-
president of the NYSE. In a flamboyant gesture Whitney placed an order for
25,000 shares of U.S. Steel at $205 when the stock price slumped to $195. The
gesture, though memorable, was ephemeral. Quietly, the day after Whitney’s
bravura performance, the group sold 51,000 shares in various stocks that it had
amassed.90 Lamont, supported by George Whitney and Bartow, served as the
Morgan representative. Frequently he acted as the public face for the group,
holding press conferences. Less openly, Lamont was in regular contact with the
governors of the NYSE, the Federal Reserve Board in Washington, and the
FRBNY.
The initial Morgan assessment was that irrationality had seized the markets.
The fall on 24 October had taken place in a “perfectly wild illogical and
uncontrolled manner.” Five days later, on “Black Tuesday,” 29 October, J.P.
Morgan & Co. described the day’s “severe decline” as a product of “hysterical
selling.” On 1 November Florence Lamont, Thomas W. Lamont’s wife, wrote
her son Austin that “The whole thing was due to a sort of fear hysteria. There
was nothing in business conditions to warrant it. But everybody got scared &
began selling at once.” Given this, the New York partners reported to Jack
Morgan, who was still in Britain, “We [the Bankers’ Pool] decided to make a
sort of faith cure demonstration by purchasing certain pivotal Stocks.”
Confidence was the only answer to “cure” irrationality. On 24 October the five
banks in the Bankers’ Pool acted, spending $25 million on the “faith cure” that
day. However, there were limits to the dosage: “Certainly we do not intend to
attempt to stop a general market decline nor do we intend to organise a pool for
the purpose of buying and selling Stocks,” his partners told Jack Morgan. He
approved: “I realise of course that you do not for a moment think of pegging any
Page 152
Page 152
prices but only to give people an opportunity to liquidate quietly.”91 The action
taken by the Bankers’ Pool was haphazard and disjointed in its application, as
the group did not proceed in its buying with a clear strategy in mind. Each
participant nominated stocks to purchase without consultation with other Pool
members, a procedure that suited its limited aim.92 As the market declined, the
Bankers’ Pool dipped in and out of the market. It did not meet every day.
Cumulatively, the Pool purchased 1,146,609 shares of stocks at a total cost of
$137,752,705. On these efforts the participants in the pool split a gross profit of
$1,067,355.04 in 1930.93
After a steady day on Friday 25 October, during which the Bankers’ Pool
bought and sold stocks, the markets reopened on Monday 28 October. The
NYSE fell heavily, declining from 298 to 260. The Morgan partners had been
anticipating weakness in the market, but not on this scale. They confessed to
Jack Morgan that the “group has increased its holdings materially.” Once more
they stressed that they were not trying to prop up the market. “Black Tuesday,”
29 October, while troubling, was less upsetting. The cable to Jack Morgan on the
day’s events opened, “To repeat yesterday’s message to you would just about tell
the story of today, although it may be said that the feeling at the close of the
market, despite the drastic decline, was just a trifle more hopeful.”94 The
wellsprings of this faint optimism were several. There had been a hint of
positivity, despite the turmoil, in their communications as early as 25 October.
There was an inclination to perceive that the worst had passed. In analysing what
had occurred on 29 October, the partners indicated that “enlarging” the Bankers’
Pool commitments was driven by the conviction that stabilization might take a
few days longer. The partners noted that “there has been some first rate
investment buying today,” a message that was repeated on 30 October, when
they lauded “European buying.”95
Page 153
Page 153
Another source of buoyancy was their cooperation with Myron Taylor of
U.S. Steel. Steel had announced an extra dividend of $1 on its common shares.96
Beyond the special dividend, Taylor, in coordination with Lamont, and with the
sanction of Jack Morgan, implemented a plan to purchase 50,000 shares of U.S.
Steel common for the employees. U.S. Steel’s action was not singular – other
large companies declared special dividends. Corporate earnings were, on the
whole, reasonable. The Morgan partners were encouraged that no brokerage
house or bank had succumbed during the panic. Two further steps, which they
had championed in the Bankers’ Pool meetings, and which they regarded as
beneficial, were taken: the decision to renew call loans at 5 per cent and the
reduction in margin requirements announced by banks to 25 per cent. Harrison’s
policy of “heavy buying” of eligible securities had assisted materially in
stemming panic. John D. Rockefeller Sr.’s public statement that he was
purchasing stock, which J.P. Morgan & Co. was alerted to beforehand, was
another positive sign. All told, the Morgan partners informed Jack Morgan, “We
are by no means out of the woods but certainly everything looks better.” Further
signs of hope, such as the decline in the bank rate pushed through by Harrison,
and the massive fall in call loans outstanding, on the order of 1 billion dollars,
hinted at an end to the drop.97
If on 1 November the situation appeared to be improving to the Morgan
partners, it was a false dawn. As the reality of ongoing decline sank in, the
Morgan analysis of the Crash shifted. The emphasis on irrationality as the
driving force in the market’s fall was superseded by more searching analysis.
Call loans were one area of inquiry. Jack Morgan, in replying to his partners on
24 October, had asked whether J.P. Morgan’s calls were being met. The response
was reassuring, as New York told him that not only were their calls being filled
but queries with other banks yielded the information that leading New York
Page 154
Page 154
banks had been sparing in calling loans. Guaranty Trust had called $35 million
out of $1 billion in loans, while National City had called $25 million and
Bankers Trust had called $50 million. By 31 October the tone of the reports to
Jack Morgan altered. Over the week lenders had panicked and called loans,
prompting the banks through which the loans had been made to take them over
lest greater disruption ensue. The New York partners reckoned that the
magnitude was considerable: several leading banks had absorbed $200 million or
more each of such loans. This development was a “real difficulty” for the
market. It was a conclusion also reached by the Commercial and Financial
Chronicle which in its issue of 2 November 1929 dismissed “mob psychology”
as underpinning the Crash and instead focused on brokers’ loans as the true
culprit. The Commercial and Financial Chronicle minced no words a week later,
lambasting Professor Irving Fisher as the high priest of the creed of exuberance,
while attacking the “mongrel crowd” of outside lenders who had made matters
dramatically worse by calling their loans.98
A second reason for ongoing weakness, in the Morgan view, was specific.
Prior to the Crash the National City Bank, led by Mitchell, had announced plans
to merge with the Corn Exchange Bank Trust Co. The proposed deal had been
structured to give Corn Exchange Bank shareholders an option: they could
tender their shares in exchange for National City Bank shares or they could
receive $360 in cash per share. When the merger was agreed, National City Bank
stock was at $550. Mitchell and his board of directors expected that the
overwhelming majority of Corn Exchange Bank shareholders would opt for
shares rather than cash. The Crash changed this expectation. The rapid fall in
National City Bank stock had taken its price to under $400 and thus there was a
strong possibility that Corn Exchange Bank shareholders would choose cash for
their shares. Facing a potential outlay of $217 million in cash payments should
this scenario come to fruition, Mitchell and the National City Bank board
Page 155
Page 155
withdrew their proxies in favour of the deal, guaranteeing that the two-thirds
majority required from National City Bank shareholders was unobtainable. The
deal died. Mitchell informed Walter Frew, the head of the Corn Exchange Bank,
of this outcome on Monday night, 4 November. The Morgan partners were
aghast. They pressed Mitchell for an explanation, having called him to 23 Wall
Street. Despite the fact that by this time Mitchell was indebted personally to J.P.
Morgan & Co. – the bank had lent him $12 million on 28 October against
Mitchell’s own holdings of National City Bank stock – Mitchell refused to
change course in the face of warnings about the damage this action would have
for National City Bank and for the fragile market. The Bankers’ Pool met on 5
November, a holiday, to consider what might be done. Mitchell was absent, but
Gates W. McGarrah attended, representing the FRBNY. The conferees were
unanimous in condemning Mitchell’s action, prompting Lamont, Whitney, and
Bartow to speak privately with Mitchell, Percy Rockefeller, and John D. Ryan.99
The effort was for naught. From the Morgan perspective, the “exceeding
weakness” displayed in the markets was due to this “overhanging situation.” On
8 November New York cabled Jack Morgan that the market was “very
satisfactory to-day … While we are still keeping our fingers crossed we are
hopeful that with the National City Bank Corn Exchange Bank Trust Co.
situation out of the way forced liquidation is pretty well at an end.”100 This was
too rosy a prognostication: it was not until 14 November that the market steadied
but the Bankers’ Pool did not intervene in the markets between 11 and 13
November.101
Emerging from the days and weeks of stress, the partners of J.P. Morgan &
Co. were in self-congratulatory mood. The bank itself had navigated the Crash
with skill. J.P. Morgan & Co. policy had been “to maintain great strength in our
depositary institutions, preferring to maintain large balances against emergencies
Page 156
Page 156
and letting them loan it out on call for their own account rather than lending it
ourselves or having it loaned for our account.” This stance was made possible in
part by the firm’s enviable position. Having refrained from making loans for
others the bank was protected as these loans were called. As the partners cabled
Jack Morgan on 31 October 1929, “We have seldom been so pleased over
anything as the justification of our policy not to loan ‘for others’.”102 The bank’s
efforts were applauded within and without. Charles Steele and Leffingwell
cabled Jack Morgan praising Lamont, Whitney, and Bartow. Grenfell writing
from London conveyed his congratulations, Time magazine featured Lamont on
its cover as the hero of the hour, while Lamont and Jack Morgan concluded that
J.P. Morgan & Co. had emerged from the Crash with its prestige enhanced on the
Street, especially when compared to Mitchell and National City.103 Time misread
what had transpired. The “shock troops” of the market, the New York money-
centre banks, had, backed by Harrison’s FRBNY, absorbed the panicked
requests from out-of-town banks, corporations, and individuals for settlement of
their call loans.104 Their willingness to absorb settlements had been decisive.
Credit for ensuring that the Crash was not worse was theirs – not J.P. Morgan &
Co.’s. The Morgan partners had played only a secondary role in mastering the
crisis.
The Crash did not shake the Morgan world view. Rather the partners
believed that their stature had been bolstered. As Lamont told Joseph Knapp, the
publisher of Collier’s, early in January 1930: “Now take the recent so-called
panic. I have seen awfully few knocks against the firm and, on the contrary, a
great many handsome tributes even from remote parts of the county … things
are going so nicely I hate to stir them up.”105 It might be objected that J.P.
Morgan & Co. did not represent all of Wall Street, was far from typical of the
American experience, and that the Morgan perspective was myopic and short-
Page 157
Page 157
sighted. Such objections have merit. Certainly, the Crash inflicted hardship on
Americans, American business, and American institutions well beyond the walls
of the Corner that the Morgan partners failed to discern. This accepted,
appreciating that the most powerful bank in the United States had a different
assessment of the ramifications of the Crash helps us understand why Wall Street
expected better times in 1930.
*****
“The country seems to be rapidly getting back to a normal basis, at least
financially, after the speculative debauch which eventuated in the stock market
panic of October and November,” opined the Commercial and Financial
Chronicle in its first issue of 1930.106 This sentiment was pervasive early in
1930. It ranged from Bernard Baruch to Andrew Mellon to the progressive
journalist John T. Flynn. Mellon said, “I see nothing in the present situation that
is either menacing or warrants pessimism,” while Flynn, soon to begin writing
his regular column for The New Republic, “Other People’s Money,” was
optimistic that the effects of the Crash would be short-lived.107 The Harvard
Economic Service and the Yale economist Irving Fisher anticipated swift
recovery, drawing upon the experience, like Leffingwell, of 1920–21.108 Jeremy
Attack and Peter Passell have noted that “most economists and policy makers”
underestimated the severity of developments in 1930.109
The year 1930 began promisingly. The Japanese government wanted to
return to the gold standard. Discussions had begun in November 1929 and
involved banks in New York, London, and Tokyo. Formal announcement that
Tokyo would return to the gold standard was delayed until January 1930 when
the Japanese government announced that the gold embargo had been lifted.110
This success was followed by the settling of outstanding issues regarding the
BIS and the Young Plan. After the Baden-Baden agreement of November 1929,
Page 158
Page 158
the question of the executive of the BIS and the composition of the board of
directors remained. While the principle of an American president for the BIS
was agreed to readily, who this should be was more difficult. Morrow was
suggested by Jack Morgan, but this was rejected. There were doubts in New
York about Morrow’s fitness, some of which may have been grounded in the
friction between Morrow and his former partners over Mexico. Though Parker
Gilbert made an effort to persuade Morrow to take the position, by the time he
did so Morrow had agreed to serve as a delegate to the forthcoming London
Naval Conference.111 At length, Jack Morgan and Young settled on the tandem
of McGarrah and Leon Fraser to serve as president and alternate to the president
respectively. The Hoover administration agreed with these selections, as did the
European central banks. This left the question of who should fill the key position
of general manager. The Bank of France was lobbying hard for Quesnay against
the opposition of Schacht. Quesnay was highly thought of by the Morgan
partners. Lamont commented, “As to Quesnay most of us over here feel that he
is the broadest and most internationally minded of all the Frenchmen we
know.”112 Supported by Young, Harrison, Moreau, and Jack Morgan, German
opposition was overcome, though Quesnay was not appointed general manager
until April 1930.
With the BIS executive and board of directors settled, the last spasms of
Schacht’s efforts to revise the Young Plan quieted in January and February 1930
at the second conference held at The Hague. This gathering ultimately
reaffirmed the August agreement, though not before the Morgan partners found
themselves having to rebut suggestions that they supported Schacht in his quest
for revision of the Young Plan. Parker Gilbert, whose relationship with Schacht
had broken down irretrievably, warned the Morgan partners that Schacht was
circulating rumours in Germany to the effect that he was backed by J.P. Morgan
Page 159
Page 159
& Co., that only Schacht’s personal relationship with the partners was keeping
German credit in the United States respectable, and that Schacht was boasting
that he was in possession of a letter from Jack Morgan that attested to his
support. Parker Gilbert believed Schacht’s pose as the champion of German
nationalism was contrived, though Parker Gilbert admitted that “it is difficult to
fathom what Schacht really wants.” Parker Gilbert worried that Schacht’s “pack
of lies” was having an effect on Norman, whose sympathies for the Germans
Parker Gilbert thought too pronounced.113 His warnings impressed themselves
upon the Morgan partners. Their response, following consultation with Young
and Reynolds, was to take up a suggestion made by Parker Gilbert to meet the
German ambassador at Washington. Jack Morgan and Lamont did so on 3
February 1930. They told the ambassador, Friedrich Wilhelm von Prittwitz und
Gaffron, that Morgan communications were with the German government and
not with Schacht. Contrary to rumour, Jack Morgan had not written any personal
letter to Schacht.114 Jack Morgan and Lamont were careful not to attack Schacht
directly. They feared that his threat to withhold the participation of the
Reichsbank in the BIS was more than bluster. Schacht’s resignation from the
Reichsbank in March 1930 cleared away one problem but substituted another,
for Schacht continued his campaign against the Young Plan and the BIS, framing
the latter as the Reparations Bank.
Schacht was far from the only foe of the Young Plan and the BIS. Louis
McFadden, the Republican chair of the House Committee on Banking and
Currency, had already begun his trek toward his laager of anti-Semitism,
international conspiracy, and paranoia. He retained some credibility by virtue of
his chairmanship, his authorship of the McFadden bill of 1927 restricting branch
banking, and his small-town banking background. On 27 March 1930, in a radio
broadcast sponsored by the Daughters of the American Revolution carried by the
Page 160
Page 160
National Broadcasting Corporation nationwide, McFadden charged that the
Young Plan and the BIS were little more than a scheme to entangle the United
States in wider political and economic commitments – the Treaty of Versailles,
the League of Nations, and the World Court. He denounced the forthcoming
Young Plan loan as illegal. J.P. Morgan & Co., “the most powerful banking force
in the world” was diverting American banking resources to sustain a moribund
Europe. McFadden indicted J.P. Morgan & Co. for the “orgy of speculation” that
had led to the Crash. They dominated the Federal Reserve Board, had pushed its
cheap money policy before 1929, and were actively in collusion with central
bankers abroad.115 He repeated these themes in another radio speech two months
later. The New York Times, in its editorial “Mr. McFadden’s Outburst,”
dismissed McFadden: there was “little danger of Mr. McFadden’s incoherent
talk being taken seriously.” The sentiments expressed by McFadden were out of
date and place, the Times judged. Their spiritual home was the Populist Party’s
platform in the 1892 election, which had inveighed against the peril represented
by the international banker.116
Partly in response to Schacht and McFadden, J.P. Morgan & Co. mounted a
counteroffensive lauding the virtues of the Young Plan and the BIS. One prong
was to provide journalists with material. Walter Lippmann, for example, was
cultivated carefully by Lamont and Leffingwell. A second approach reassured
investors. In April 1930 an article entitled “The Final Reparations Settlement”
appeared in Foreign Affairs under Lamont’s name. After recapitulating the
negotiations, Lamont pointed out that German obligations were fewer under the
new plan than formerly. The BIS “offers in my opinion greater protection to
German economy than the old Transfer Committee … With the Germans
cooperating loyally with the Bank they need have no fear of the future.” Though
Lamont acknowledged that American governments refused to accept a
Page 161
Page 161
connection between German reparations payments and Allied war debts to the
United States, there was an “economic link.” Average German payments under
the Young Plan would run at $495 million per year and in turn the Allies would
pay to the United States $325 million yearly in discharge of their war debts.
Lamont reassured readers, “the adoption of the Young Plan ought to prove an
immense stimulus to the European economy … the fresh methods of cooperation
through the International Bank … should go far to tranquilize Western Europe,
and to hasten all the processes of reconstruction.”117 This campaign had success
– the flotation of the $98.5 million American tranche of the Young Plan loan in
June was oversubscribed, with the lists closing the day of the announcement.
Despite this achievement, the Morgan partners wondered about the
direction of the American economy. Surveying matters for Morgan Grenfell they
adopted a cautious tone, telling London that “While general business is slow …
We think that there generally exists a feeling of optimism as to the future.”118
Such lukewarm sentiments were outweighed by Hoover’s public bravado. In a
speech to the United States Chamber of Commerce on 1 May 1930, which he
admitted later was a “political mistake,” Hoover told his audience that “I am
convinced that we have passed the worst and with continued effort we shall
rapidly recover.”119 Lamont continued to view matters beatifically. Introducing
Sir Josiah Stamp to the members of the Academy of Political Science early in
June 1930, Lamont declared that Stamp, American bankers, and the American
investing public had made possible “the final liquidation of the War” and the
pouring of a “firm foundation for the new epoch of economic and political peace
in Europe.”120 This was the last hurrah of uninflected Morgan exuberance.
From June onward, evidence mounted of a marked downturn. This
coincided with the passage of the Smoot–Hawley Tariff. J.P. Morgan & Co., true
to its free-trade, internationalist outlook, was opposed to the tariff increases as
Page 162
Page 162
were many economists, businessmen, and public figures. Lamont made an effort
to dissuade Hoover from signing the bill, telling Robinson that passage would be
negative for the country and the Republican Party. Hoover, he told Robinson,
would benefit politically from vetoing the bill. Lamont sought to push Morrow,
now the Republican candidate for Senator for New Jersey in the 1930 election,
to intercede with the president.121 These efforts came to naught, for Hoover
signed the bill on 17 June 1930. The nationalist wing of the Republican Party
favoured Smoot–Hawley, which was ultimately determinant for Hoover.122
Following its passage, the Commercial and Financial Chronicle described a
“very gloomy picture” amid “a renewed violent collapse in the stock
market.”123 A month later, Lamont confessed “business here is slower than
death,” a sentiment he reiterated in mid-September to Jack Morgan.124 Hoover’s
address to the American Banking Association convention on 2 October 1930
took place amidst a “feeling of gloom and utter hopelessness.”125 De Sanchez,
asked by Lamont to analyse Hoover’s speech, was scathing, labelling it a
“thoroughly mischievous statement. The President lays bare for all to see the
jejune quality of his economic thinking.”126
Further reflection was prompted by Taylor, who had written Lamont
expressing his disquiet at the direction of the economy. On 13–14 August Taylor
met twice with Leffingwell. Taylor proposed various remedies: expressions of
confidence from leading business and political figures should be made to buoy
public opinion; J.P. Morgan & Co. in cooperation with the First National Bank
should purchase a substantial amount of U.S. Steel stock which would reassure
markets; and business should buy large quantities of raw materials. Leffingwell
dismissed these ideas as impractical. Hoover had already attempted the positive
speech route, it had failed, and Leffingwell saw no reason to pursue the
“nostrums of Mr. Fixit.” Stock purchases or building raw material inventories
Page 163
Page 163
encountered a basic obstacle: if business was deteriorating, how could you
“persuade business men to buy commodities in excess of their requirements, or
buy stocks?” While Leffingwell was dismissive, he acknowledged that Taylor
was a “very, very able man” and such ideas were circulating widely – they were
being discussed by Hoover, Young, Harrison, and Dillon. What mattered,
Leffingwell remarked, was “the state of mind about the situation that they [the
ideas] reflect in the immensely important people who discuss them seriously.”127
Taylor’s suggestion to purchase raw materials was transformed in
September and October into schemes designed to give a fillip to American
industry and trade, to support commodities, and to advance international comity.
The connection was made by Hoover, whose interest was sparked by Robinson
and Young. At dinner on 17 September the president raised with Lamont the
notion of a rubber for cotton swap. He told Lamont that Firestone Rubber was
willing to buy 100,000 tons of British rubber and in return wanted British
companies to purchase an equivalent value of American cotton. Lamont
undertook to explore London’s attitude through Morgan Grenfell and Norman.
His soundings were mixed. While Bank of England officials were “sympathetic”
and Norman was willing to entertain the notion, he had his doubts.128 Harry
Davison, in conversation with the management of the United States Rubber
Company, informed Lamont that the industry was less keen on the barter plan
than Hoover realized. This information, along with the Davison memorandum,
Lamont passed on to the secretary of commerce.129 The latter had, in the interim,
been approached by the Japanese government about a silk for cotton swap.
Tokyo was willing to purchase 1 million bales of American cotton if the United
States bought 200,000 boxes of raw silk. In communicating this information to
J.P. Morgan & Co., the secretary of commerce wondered if something might be
done. Subsequently Robert P. Lamont asked Lamont whether a scheme involving
Page 164
Page 164
copper might be feasible.130 While Lamont was willing to investigate these
ideas, principally because the White House was involved, he thought it remote
that anything would transpire.
Lamont’s dealings with the White House in the fall of 1930 were shaped by
a more parochial concern. The Van Sweringen railroad empire was staggering
under the weight of its debt. At the capstone of its pyramidal corporate structure
was the Vaness Corporation. Vaness controlled the Alleghany Corporation that
J.P. Morgan & Co. had launched in 1929. Alleghany had a dominant interest in
the Missouri Pacific Railroad and the Nickel Plate Road and through the
Chesapeake Corporation controlled the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway and the
Erie Railroad. Of this assemblage, only the Chesapeake & Ohio was profitable
and generating the cash flow that the brothers needed to meet the payments on
their loans. Guaranty Trust were their principal creditors. It had been evident for
months that a crisis was building. In October 1930 the reckoning arrived.
Hoover, understanding the importance of the railroad sector, was willing to do
what he could to assist.131 On 22 October Hoover received the Van Sweringen
brothers at the White House. Later that day, the brothers met their bankers at
Lamont’s townhouse in Manhattan (see Figure 3.4).132 Present were Lamont,
Arthur Anderson, and two senior executives of Guaranty Trust, William C.
Potter and Joseph Swan.
Page 165
Page 165
Figure 3.4 The Van Sweringen brothers, O.P. and M.J., at the Pecora hearings
in 1933.
Bettmann/Getty Images.
The brothers knew their empire was destitute and so did the bankers.
Neither J.P. Morgan & Co. nor Guaranty Trust wanted to be in the business of
running railroads. Well aware of the precarious state of the economy, fearing the
ramifications that might flow from bankruptcy for the stock market, and
appreciating that Hoover would not welcome this outcome, the bankers hoped
that providing more money might allow the brothers to survive. Underlying this
gamble was the prospect that, if and when the economy recovered, the railroads
would need modernization and re-equipping, a vision that offered the tantalizing
notion of future profits. It was, as Whitney later admitted, a “rescue party”
though it was not just the Van Sweringen empire that was being saved.133 On 23
October, having secured agreement from J.P. Morgan & Co. and Guaranty to
fresh loans totalling $39.5 million to Vaness Corp and Cleveland Terminals
Page 166
Page 166
Building Co., O.P. Van Sweringen obtained another $5 million.134 The bankers
certainly understood the riskiness of the loans that they were making. George F.
Baker Jr., rather than saddle his First National Bank with such a low-quality
loan, absorbed it personally.135
*****
On 14 November 1930, two weeks after the “grim anniversary” of the Crash,
Lamont admitted that a depression existed in a widely publicized speech. Six
causal considerations drew his attention: overproduction of basic commodities;
the failure of price-support schemes designed to keep commodity prices high;
the drop in silver prices that hurt silver-producing countries but in particular
India, China, and Mexico; the movement of gold to France and the United
States; widespread political turmoil, with India, China, and South America
afflicted severely; and “a spirit of rampant speculation” which had manifested
most dramatically in the United States in the run-up to the Crash.136 Much could
be accomplished, Lamont advised, by reforming anti-trust laws that he deemed
antiquated and contributory to overproduction through the lowering of entrance
barriers to industry. The Smoot–Hawley Tariff should be scrapped, for its
provisions impaired trade. Positively, speculation had been broken. Community
and business were more sober and stronger. Lamont recalled that there had been
many economic crises in the past – he listed thirteen – and that after each one
business had recovered. He told his audience that the United States was at the
low point of the business cycle but that the Federal Reserve was up to the strain:
savings bank deposits had risen; inventories were lean; and corporations were
liquid and well capitalized. In a typical flourish, Lamont finished with a
scriptural reference: “Be of good courage.”137
Privately, Leffingwell was alarmed. Commenting on a draft of Lamont’s
speech, Leffingwell could not contain his astonishment in a bracing commentary
Page 167
Page 167
distributed to his partners: “I am perplexed by your optimism and wonder on
what it is based.” He adumbrated the reasons for bleakness, beginning with
dropping world prices due to the “restoration of the gold standard and the
demonetization of silver.” Declines in retail prices and wages had not matched
this deflation, while commodity inventories continued to burgeon, a function in
part of overproduction that had lasted too long. Wealth had been diminished by
the Crash, investors were short of confidence, and cheap money had not found
enterprises to deploy it. The banks were in trouble, while government at all
levels – municipal, state, federal – was afflicted by diminishing revenue and
rising expenditure. Politically, the prospect for the next two years was dismal:
neither Democrats nor Republicans inspired hope. Abroad, revolution stalked
China, Turkey, and South America. India was afflicted by turmoil, while the
French were stricken by their fear of war. England and Germany were plagued
by a “vicious circle: excessive taxes, unemployment, doles, more taxes.” Russia,
Leffingwell charged, was “waging economic war on Europe” and was
challenging “our civilization … most effectively.” “Drastic modification” of the
postwar political and financial order was needed as tariff barriers rose higher,
making trade more difficult. The flow of cheap labour, made possible by
emigration and immigration, had ceased with negative consequences for the
American economy going forward.138
Leffingwell offered no solutions, for, though he fretted, there was a strain of
moral self-satisfaction that welcomed the downturn. Writing Lamont in August
1930, he remarked, “To me this is a first class deflation after a first class
inflation. It is a healthy purge that is being put through the economic body after a
seven years’ debauch.”139 In the event, Leffingwell’s pessimism secured no
purchase in Lamont’s speech. The divide between the two partners reflected the
tensions inherent in Morgan action. Jack Morgan’s and Lamont’s conviction that
Page 168
Page 168
progress on European reconstruction was the sine qua non to American
prosperity dictated what the partners did in 1929–30. The Young Plan and BIS
negotiations were fundamental; the Crash, while disturbing, was of lesser
moment, for it was a transient phenomenon. In October and November 1929 the
Morgan partners demonstrated that they regarded redressing the panic as
principally an effort in stabilizing prices. Symbolically this meant the formation
of the Bankers’ Pool, but the practical work of restoring order fell to the FRBNY
and the New York money-centre banks. Leffingwell did not dissent from the
priority of European stability, though he rued the direction of American
monetary policy and the ills of speculation. In fairness, much of the American
business, financial, and political community thought in similar terms about the
impact of the Crash.
Optimism, driven by what they regarded as acceptable resolutions to war
debts and reparations in the shape of the Young Plan and the BIS, coloured the
outlook of the Morgan partners until the summer of 1930. Growing evidence of
deeper-seated troubles did not find open expression outside the confines of the
bank until Lamont’s speech. Even then, his words balanced acceptance of the
Depression with a desire to appease the Hoover administration. Pressed to retain
good relations with the White House, J.P. Morgan & Co. did not believe that the
Depression imperilled their position, Wall Street, the United States, or
capitalism. The year 1931 challenged those assumptions.
1 The most detailed account is Barry A. Wigmore, The Crash and Its
Aftermath: A History of Securities Markets in the United States, 1929–1933,
Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1985. A recent survey has concluded that,
after the opening six months of the year, the markets moved decisively
upward into unsupportable territory. Morris, A Rabble of Dead Money, pp.
110–13.
Page 169
Page 169
2 Two examples that insist on the linkage between the Crash and the
Depression are Frederick Lewis Allen’s classic, Only Yesterday, New York:
Harper and Brothers, 1931, pp. 281–85 and J.F.T. O’Connor, The Banking
Crisis and Recovery under the Roosevelt Administration, Chicago: 1938,
Reprint New York: Da Capo 1971, p. 8. O’Connor was Comptroller of the
Currency 1933–38 and Vice-Chair of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation 1934–38. Galbraith’s The Great Crash, pp. 192–93 accepts the
blow to business confidence; a restatement is Fraser, Every Man, pp. 413–14,
which argues against the notion of divorcing the Crash from the Depression.
3 Peter Temin, “The Great Depression,” in Engerman and Gallman,
Cambridge Economic History of the United States, p. 305.
4 Allen, The Lords of Creation, p. 347. Charles R. Geisst, Wall Street: A
History, New York: Oxford University Press, 1997, p. 187, is insistent that
“Wall Street itself was primarily responsible for the crash and the subsequent
depression.”
5 Bell, “The Decline of the Money Barons,” p. 155.
6 Jon Jacobson, Locarno Diplomacy, Germany and the West, 1925–29,
Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1972, offers a very good
assessment of the Young Plan, pp. 239–78. The best account of the creation of
the BIS is Giovanni Toniolo, Central Bank Cooperation at the Bank for
International Settlements, 1930–1973, Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 2005, pp. 24–60.
7 Stephen Schuker, “American Foreign Policy and the Young Plan, 1929,” in
Gustav Schmidt ed., Konstellationen Internationaler Politik 1924–1932,
Bochum: N. Brockmeyer, 1983, p. 126.
8 Case and Case, Owen D. Young, pp. 416–33.
Page 170
Page 170
9 The New Republic, vol. 57, no. 738, 23 January 1929, p. 255.
10 Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 128, no. 3317, 19 January 1929,
p. 289. The other American alternate was Thomas Nelson Perkins, a lawyer
and corporate director who had been a member of the Reparations
Commission from 1924 to 1926.
11 Grenfell to Lamont, 4 February 1929, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 111, Folder
20 Morgan Grenfell & Company 1928–29.
12 There were rumours as early as 1927 that Parker Gilbert had been
approached about joining J.P. Morgan & Co. Certainly, it was no later than
August 1929 when Jack Morgan had talks with Parker Gilbert. Parker Gilbert
to Morrow, 25 November 1929, Amherst College (AC), Dwight D. Morrow
papers (DM), I, Box 24, Folder 12.
13 See Jack Morgan’s comments to Lord Revelstoke, 18 January 1929, cited in
Beth A. Simmons, “Why Innovate? Founding the Bank for International
Settlements,” World Politics, vol. 45, no. 3 (1993), footnote 105, p. 399;
Grenfell to Lamont, 4 February 1929, BL, TWL, Box 111, Folder 20 Morgan
Grenfell & Company 1928–29.
14 The Crocker diary makes this clear. For example, Stuart M. Crocker Diary,
11 February 1929, SLU, ODY papers, SMC, Box 976.
15 Harrison was not yet Governor of the FRBNY. Strong died in October
1928. Harrison was not selected formally until late November 1928. Parker
Gilbert to FRBNY, 11 October 1928, CUL, George L. Harrison papers (GH),
Box 1, Binder 1.
16 Simmons, “Why Innovate?,” p. 391.
17 Parker Gilbert to FRBNY, 11 October 1928, CUL, GH, Box 1, Binder 1.
Page 171
Page 171
18 Leffingwell to Lamont, 22 October 1928, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 103,
Folder 13. The letter was circulated to all of the New York partners.
19 Clay, Lord Norman, pp. 267–68.
20 The Mellon–Bérenger Agreement of 29 April 1926 settled the French war
debt owing to the United States. Andrew Mellon was the secretary of the
Treasury. Henry Bérenger was the French ambassador at Washington. Under
the terms of the arrangement, the French debt to the United States was put at
$4.025 billion, which was to be discharged over a 62-year period at an average
interest rate of 1.6 per cent. Benjamin D. Rhodes, “Reassessing Uncle
Shylock: The United States and the French War Debt, 1917–1929,” The
Journal of American History, vol. 55, no. 4 (1969), p. 799.
21 Toniolo, Central Bank Cooperation, pp. 20–23.
22 Ibid., pp. 35–36; Stuart M. Crocker Diary, 25 February 1929, SLU, ODY,
SMC, Box 976.
23 Stuart M. Crocker Diary, 5 March 1929, SLU, ODY, Box 976.
24 On de Sanchez, see TML, CP, Box 30, De Sanchez, J.A.M. with the
comment by Harry Morgan; on Smith, a classmate of Lamont’s, see Peterecz,
Jeremiah Smith Jr. and Hungary, 1924–1926; Stuart M. Crocker Diary, 25
February 1929, SLU, ODY, Box 976.
25 Jack Morgan and Lamont to J.P. Morgan & Co., 11 March 1929,
Leffingwell to Jack Morgan & Lamont, 11 March 1929, Jack Morgan and
Lamont to J.P. Morgan & Co., 12 March 1929, Leffingwell, Charles Steele,
Junius Morgan, and George Whitney to Jack Morgan and Lamont, 14 March
1929, TML, JPM, Box 178/238, J.P. Morgan & Co. Cables concerning
Reparations.
Page 172
Page 172
26 Leffingwell to Lamont, 5 April 1929, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 83, Folder
2, Austria 1928–34; Leffingwell to Lamont, 16 April 1929, Leffingwell to
Lamont, 9 May 1929, both in YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4, Folder 94.
27 Lamont to Young, 24 March 1929, SLU, ODY, Box 801, Folder 1297K11.
28 Lamont to Snowden, 20 August 1929, TML, Carosso papers, Box 31,
Morgan & Co. – Bank for International Settlements.
29 Young tried to lever the influence of J.P. Morgan & Co. from an early point.
See the Crocker diary entries for 19 February 1929, p. 28, and 20–21
February, p. 41. The attempt to coerce Schacht occurred in early March, Stuart
M. Crocker Diary, 7 March 1929, SLU, ODY, Box 976. A similar effort was
made with Moreau in early May 1929, to no avail. Stuart M. Crocker Diary, 1
May 1929, SLU, ODY, Box 976.
30 Schuker, “American Foreign Policy and the Young Plan, 1929,” p. 128.
31 SLU, ODY, Box 799, Folder Important Papers 1297K10.
32 Stuart M. Crocker Diary, 9–10 April 1929, SLU, ODY, Box 976, contains
the following: “As a matter of fact, none of the men here have any regard for
Hoover, because they think he is too shifty in his affections and moreover
because he thinks nobody can do any kind of job as well as he can. The only
man here who has always admired Hoover and counted him among his good
friends is Mr. Young.”
33 Stuart M. Crocker Diary, 17 May 1929, SLU, ODY, Box 976 for Jack
Morgan’s reaction to the Stimson announcement. Oswald G. Villard to Russell
C. Leffingwell, 13 March 1928, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 7, Folder 166.
Leffingwell replied to Villard on 16 March 1928. On 24 April Villard told
Page 173
Page 173
Leffingwell that The Nation had opted not to publish. “Socialists Take Up
Attack on Hoover,” New York Times, 1 August 1928, p. 3.
34 Chernow, The House of Morgan, p. 314.
35 Theodore Joslin, Hoover off the Record, Garden City, NY: Doubleday,
Doran and Company, 1934. Reprint Freeport: New York, Books for Libraries
Press, 1971, pp. 23–24; see the comments by Albert Romasco, The Poverty of
Abundance: Hoover, the Nation and the Great Depression, New York: Oxford
University Press, 1965, pp. 85–89. Herbert Feis, the economic advisor to the
State Department in Hoover’s administration (and Roosevelt’s to follow), told
Edward W. Bennett in 1951, “that Hoover was the last man to let himself be
dictated to by New York bankers.” Edward W. Bennett, Germany and the
Diplomacy of the Financial Crisis, 1931, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University
Press, 1962, p. 138. Lewis Strauss of Kuhn, Loeb & Co. was close to Hoover,
but his stature on the Street was not of the first rank.
36 Dayer, Finance and Empire, p. 201.
37 Kendrick A. Clements, The Life of Herbert Hoover: Imperfect Visionary,
1918–1928, London: Palgrave Macmillan, 2010, p. 431.
38 Joan Hoff Wilson, American Business and Foreign Policy 1920–1933,
Lexington, KY: University Press of Kentucky, 1971; Clyde P. Weed, The
Transformation of the Republican Party, 1912–1936: From Reform to
Resistance, Boulder, CO: Lynne Rienner Publishers, 2011, pp. 81–83.
39 Sisley Huddleston, In My Time, New York: E.P. Dutton & Co., 1938, p. 256.
40 Ahamed, Lords of Finance, p. 335.
41 Jacobson, Locarno Diplomacy, pp. 258–60.
Page 174
Page 174
42 Jack Morgan to Bartow, 29 April 1929, TML, MBEP, Series 5, Bartow,
Francis D.; Leffingwell to Lamont, 5 April 1929, BL, TWL papers, Series II,
Box 83, Folder 2, Austria 1928–34.
43 “The Proposed International Bank – the Federal Reserve Should Not
Participate,” Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 128, no. 3326, 23
March 1929, pp. 1781–82; Stimson took the step of issuing a formal statement
that the United States would not participate in the BIS on 16 May 1929.
“America Rejects Part in World Bank,” New York Times, 17 May 1929, p. 3;
Crocker diary, 17 May 1929, SLU, ODY, Box 976, p. 248.
44 “Regret Bank on Debt Bank: Bankers Hold Absence of Officials May
Embarrass Federal Reserve,” New York Times, 27 June 1929, p. 12.
45 This paragraph follows the discussion in Robert Boyce, The Great Interwar
Crisis and the Collapse of Globalization, London: Palgrave Macmillan, 2009,
pp. 197–206; Sir Frederick Leith-Ross, Money Talks: Fifty Years of
International Finance, London: Hutchinson & Co., 1968, p. 103.
46 Grenfell to Leffingwell, 12 June 1929, TML, CP, Box 18, Morgan & Co. –
Misc. General Econ. & Business Conditions.
47 Colin Cross, Philip Snowden, London: Barrie and Rockliff, 1966, pp.
202–36; Kenneth Laybourn, Philip Snowden: A Biography, 1864–1937,
Aldershot: Temple Smith, 1988, p. 96.
48 Quesnay died in 1937. For his influence, see Olivier Feiertag, “Pierre
Quesnay et les réseaux de l’internationisme monétaire en Europe
(1919–1937),” in Michel Dumoulin, ed., Les réseaux économiques de la
construction européene au XXe siècle, Bern: Peter Lang, 2004; Renaud
Boulanger, “La question de rapprochement financier et banquier entre la
Page 175
Page 175
France et les États-Unis a la fin des années 1920. L’entremise de Pierre
Quesnay,” Histoire@Politique, no. 19 (2013).
49 Lamont to J.P. Morgan & Co., 16 July 1929, KC, NDJ; Lamont to Young,
28 July 1929, SLU, ODY, Box 315, Folder 1297W8. Poincaré’s ministry fell
on 29 July 1929. Aristide Briand, who succeed Poincaré as premier, was less
concerned.
50 Jack Morgan to Harry Morgan, 10 August 1929, TML, JPM, Box 38A, 35.1
– Cable Book.
51 Jack Morgan to J.P. Morgan & Co., 9 August 1929, TML, CP, Box 17,
Folder Morgan & Co. Misc. Priv. Telegs 15 May to 21 November 1929; Jack
Morgan to Harry Morgan, 12 August 1929, TML, JPM, Box 38A, 35.1 –
Cable Book; Norman to George Harrison, 9 and 13 August 1929, CUL, GH,
Box 8, Binder 18.
52 Dayer, Finance and Empire, p. 200, accepts that Lamont was attempting to
wangle an invitation. Lamont had told Owen Young on 31 July that he did not
want to go to The Hague and this stance was confirmed by Jack Morgan in his
cable to Harry Morgan of 9 August 1929. Lamont to J.P. Morgan & Co. for
Owen Young, 1 July 1929, TML, CP, Box 17, Folder Morgan & Co. Misc.
Priv. Telegs 15 May to 21 November 1929; Jack Morgan to Harry Morgan, 12
August 1929, TML, JPM, Box 38A/35.1 – Cable Book.
53 Lamont to Snowden, 14 August 1929, TML, CP, Box 17, Folder Morgan &
Co. Misc. Priv. Telegs 15 May to 21 November 1929; Lamont to Quesnay, 14
August 1929, TML, CP, Box 17, Folder Morgan & Co. Misc. Priv. Telegs 15
May to 21 November 1929.
54 Lamont to Snowden, 20 August 1929, TML, CP, Box 31, Morgan & Co. –
Bank for International Settlements.
Page 176
Page 176
55 Grenfell to Jack Morgan, 22 August 1929, TML, JPM, Box 179/239.
56 Clay, Lord Norman, p. 270; Boyce, British Capitalism, pp. 209–10; Cross,
Philip Snowden, pp. 237–39.
57 Lamont to Owen Young 19 August 1929, TML, CP, Box 17, Folder Morgan
& Co. Misc. Priv. Telegs 15 May to 21 November 1929.
58 Garrard Winston to Ogden Mills, 27 August 1929, LC, OLM, Box 8, 1929
Folder. Winston told Mills that Isaac Marcosson, who was writing an article
on the Young Plan for the Saturday Evening Post, had told him that Hoover
viewed the BIS as an “iniquitous institution.” Winston was a former
undersecretary of the Treasury from 1923 to 1927. Robinson to Hoover, 26
October 1929, HHPL, Herbert Hoover papers (HH), Subject File, Box 183,
Financial Matters, Correspondence 1929–30.
59 Jackson Reynolds, CUL, COHC, pp. 101–02.
60 Jack Morgan and George Whitney to J.P. Morgan & Co., 7 October 1929,
TML, CP, Box 17, Folder Morgan & Co. Misc. Priv. Telegs 15 May to 21
November 1929; CFW to TWL, 26 August 1929, 28 August 1929, TML, CP,
Box 17, Folder Morgan & Co. Misc. Priv. Telegs 15 May to 21 November
1929.
61 Kreuger & Toll loaned the German government $125 million in fifty-year
bonds at 6 per cent.
62 Jack Morgan to Parker Gilbert, 29 October 1929, Private and Confidential,
TML, JPM, Box 179/239; Jack to J.P. Morgan & Co., 31 October 1929, TML,
CP, Box 17, Folder Morgan & Co. Misc. Priv. Telegs 15 May to 21 November
1929.
Page 177
Page 177
63 De Sanchez to Jack Morgan, 5 November 1929, Reynolds to Jack Morgan,
2 November 1929, Jack Morgan to Lamont, 6 November 1929, TML, JPM,
Box 179/239.
64 Toniolo, Central Bank Cooperation, pp. 39–44. The American consortium
was led by J.P. Morgan & Co, First National Bank of New York, and the First
National Bank of Chicago.
65 Milton F. Friedman and Anna Jacobson Schwartz, The Monetary History of
the United States 1867–1960, Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1963,
pp. 305–08. In a 700-page study, the authors devoted three pages to the Crash.
66 Temin, “The Great Depression,” p. 301.
67 Boyce, The Great Interwar Crisis, p. 243 for the 1927 quote; pp. 221–22
for Norman and Jack Morgan. McNeill, American Money, remarks on p. 228
that “In 1928–29, many American and British officials believed that the world
economy and especially the German economy, was headed for a crash.”
68 Meltzer, A History of the Federal Reserve, vol. 1, pp. 234–41, argues that
Harrison and Adolph Miller were in favour of raising rates from the fall of
1928.
69 Leffingwell to Lamont, 8 March 1929, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 103,
Folder 13, Leffingwell, Russell C. 1928–29; Chernow, The House of Morgan,
p. 313. Chernow’s account does not mention the postscript. More generally,
on Norman and Harrison and the Federal Reserve Board, Ahamed, Lords of
Finance, pp. 320–21, is critical of the plan to raise rates, labelling it
“completely absurd.” Clay, Lord Norman, pp. 241–50, argues that Norman’s
fears dated back to 1928.
Page 178
Page 178
70 Leffingwell to Lamont, 8 March 1929, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 103,
Folder 13, Leffingwell, Russell C. 1928–29; Lamont to Leffingwell, 21 March
1929, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 103, Folder 13, Leffingwell, Russell C.
1928–29.
71 Leffingwell to Jack Morgan, 22 March 1929, Jack Morgan to Leffingwell, 5
April 1929, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 6, Folder 127.
72 Leffingwell to Grenfell, 29 May 1929, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 3/69.
73 “High Finance in the ‘Twenties: The United Corporation (I),” Columbia
Law Review, vol. 37, no. 5 (1937), pp. 785–816, is a detailed account of
United’s formation.
74 In the case of Alleghany, J.P. Morgan along with Guaranty Company, First
National Bank of New York, and National City Company headed a 15-year,
$35 million convertible bond offering priced at 100. The stock, preferred ($25
million) and common (offered at $24 per share), was handled by a syndicate
led by Guaranty Company, Lee & Higginson, Dillon Read, The National City
Co., Harris, Forbes, The Union Trust Co. of Cleveland, The Union Trust Co.
of Pittsburgh, Hayden, Miller & Co. Cleveland, and Wood, Gundy & Co.
Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 128, no. 3319, 2 February 1929,
pp. 728–29. A second tranche of preferred stock for Alleghany issued on 14
May 1929 conformed to this practice.
75 Kenneth S. Davis, FDR: The New York Years 1928–1933, New York:
Random House, 1985, pp. 88–93.
76 Details may be found in the Pecora Committee hearings, Part I, 25 May
1933, appendix, especially Group 1, A and Group 7, A.
Page 179
Page 179
77 Lamont, The Ambassador, p. 268, remarks that the partners had “largely
liquidated the firm’s stock holdings” by October 1929.
78 Whigham to Bartow, 22 January 1929, TML, CP, Box 17, Morgan & Co. –
MG & Co.’s Client Investments; Michael Herbert to Bartow, 21 June 1929,
TML, CP, Box 17, Morgan & Co. – Partners’ & Staff’s Personal Investments.
79 Jack Morgan to Harry and Junius Morgan, 14 October 1929, TML, JPM,
Box 38A/35.1 – Cable Book; Harry and Junius Morgan to Jack Morgan, 17
October 1929, TML, JPM, Box 37/27; Junius Morgan to Jack Morgan, 7
November 1929, TML, JPM, Box 38A/35.1 – Cable Book.
80 Florence Corliss Lamont to Austin Lamont, 1 November 1929, Smith
College, Lamont-Corliss Family Papers, Box 3, Folder 8.
81 Lamont, The Ambassador, p. 268.
82 A copy of Leffingwell’s suggested letter is in BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98,
Folder 15.
83 Mr. Leffingwell’s letter, 11 October 1929, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98,
Folder 15.
84 In sending Jack Morgan a copy of the letter to Hoover, Lamont remarked
“many of the partners had some ideas to contribute.” Lamont to Jack Morgan,
22 October 1929, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 108, Folder 14.
85 Lamont to Hoover, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98, Folder 16.
86 Hoover, Memoirs, vol. 3, p. 17. Privately he wrote a marginal comment on
the memorandum that “this document is fairly annoying in light of two years
after.” Herbert Hoover, undated, HHPL, HH, Subject files, Box 188, NYSE.
Page 180
Page 180
87 Robinson to Hoover, 25 October 1929, HHPL, HH, Subject files, Box 183,
Financial Matters, Correspondence 1929–30. Lamont to Jack Morgan, 22
October 1929, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 108, Folder 14.
88 Martin Egan to Lamont, 23 October 1929, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98/16.
89 Wigmore, The Crash, pp. 6–25.
90 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan, 26 October 1929, TML, JPM, Box 37,
Folder 27.
91 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan, 25 October 1929, TML, JPM, Box 37,
Folder 27; J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan, 29 October 1929, TML, JPM,
Box 37, Folder 27; Florence Corliss Lamont to Austin Lamont, 1 November
1929, Smith College, Lamont-Corliss Family Papers, Box 3, Folder 8; J.P.
Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan, 25 October 1929, TML, JPM, Box 37, Folder
27; Jack Morgan to J.P. Morgan & Co., 25 October 1929, TML, JPM, Box 37,
Folder 27.
92 Wigmore, The Crash, p. 10.
93 George Whitney, Friday 2 June 1933, Pecora Committee, Part 1, 25 May
1933, pp. 536–39.
94 29, 30 October 1929, J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan, TML, JPM, Box
37/27, Cables received and sent by J.P. Morgan in London.
95 25 and 29 October 1929, J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan, TML, JPM,
Box 37/27, Cables received and sent by J.P. Morgan in London.
96 Jack Morgan was the chairman of the board of U.S. Steel. It had been Jack
Morgan and George F. Baker senior who had convinced Taylor to become the
chairman of the finance committee of U.S. Steel in 1928. Kenneth Warren,
Page 181
Page 181
Big Steel: The First Century of the United States Steel Corporation,
Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 2001, pp. 145–47.
97 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan, 31 October 1929, TML, JPM, Box
37/27, Cables received and sent by J.P. Morgan in London.
98 Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 129, no. 3358, 2 November
1929, p. 2727; Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 129, no. 3359, 9
November 1929, pp. 2899–900.
99 Rockefeller was on the National City Bank board of directors. He had close
ties with Ryan, the moving spirit in Anaconda Copper Mining Co., who was
also a member of the National City Bank board.
100 J.P. Morgan & Co to Jack Morgan, 6 November 1929, Jack Morgan to J.P.
Morgan & Co., 7 November 1929, J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan, 8
November 1929, TML, JPM jr papers, Box 37/27, Cables received and sent by
J.P. Morgan in London.
101 Wigmore, The Crash, pp. 24–25.
102 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan, 31 October 1929, TML, JPM, Box
37/27; J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan, 1 November 1929, TML, JPM,
Box 37/27.
103 On Morgan satisfaction, Steele and Leffingwell to Jack Morgan, 1
November 1929, TML, JPM jr papers, Box 37/27, Cables received and sent by
J.P. Morgan in London Grenfell to Lamont, 19 November 1929; TML, CP,
Box 18, Morgan & Co – Misc. Notes 1920s file 2; Florence Corliss Lamont to
Austin Lamont, 1 November 1929, Smith College, Lamont-Corliss Family
Papers, Box 3, Folder 8; Jack Morgan to J.P. Morgan & Co., 7 November
1929, J.P. Morgan & Co. TML, JPM jr papers, Box 37/27, Cables received
and sent by J.P. Morgan in London.
Page 182
Page 182
104 Myers, The New York Money Market, vol. 1, p. 270; Beckhart, The New
York Money Market, vol. 3, p. 83.
105 Lamont to Joseph P. Knapp, 8 January 1930, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 101,
Folder Knapp.
106 Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 130, no. 3367, 4 January 1930,
p. 1.
107 Jordan A. Schwartz, The Speculator: Bernard M. Baruch in Washington,
Chapel Hill, NC: UNC Press 1981, pp. 258–59; Mellon cited in Schlesinger,
The Crisis of the Old Order, p. 164; John E. Moser, Right Turn: John T. Flynn
and the Transformation of American Liberalism, New York: New York
University Press, 2005, p. 21–22.
108 Temin, Lessons from the Great Depression, pp. 57–9.
109 Jeremy Attack and Peter Passell, A New Economic View of American
History, 2nd ed. New York: W.W. Norton, 1994, p. 565–66; see too the
remarks in David Kennedy, Freedom from Fear: The American People in
Depression and War, New York: Oxford University Press, 1999, pp. 39–40.
110 The first reference to the discussions is in J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack
Morgan, 7 November 1929, TML, CP, Box 17, Folder Morgan & Co. Misc.
Priv. Telges 15 May to 21 November 1929. For context, Toshiki Tomita,
“Direct Underwriting of Government Bonds by the Bank of Japan in the
1930s,” NRI Research Papers, No. 94, September 2005, pp. 1–2.
111 Jack Morgan to Lamont, 7 October 1929, Lamont to Jack Morgan 9
October 1929, Jack Morgan to Lamont, 9 October 1929, TML, JPM, Box
37/27; Parker Gilbert to Dwight Morrow, 25 November 1929, AC, DM, Series
I, Box 24, Folder 12.
Page 183
Page 183
112 Moreau to Young, 29 November 1929, Moreau to Young, 18 February
1930, CUL, GH, Box 13, Binder 28, 29 November 1929; Lamont to Grenfell,
14 February 1930, TML, CP, Box 17, Folder Morgan & Co. Misc. Priv. Telges
21 November 1929 to 3 March 1930.
113 Parker Gilbert to Pierre Jay, 29 January 1930 and Parker Gilbert to Jay, 31
January 1930, CUL, GH, Box 1, Binder 1. From 1927 to 1930 Jay was a
member of the Transfer Commission and Deputy Agent General for
Reparations under Parker Gilbert. Jay had been Chairman of the Board and
Federal Reserve Agent of the FRBNY from 1914 to 1926. From 1930 to 1945
Jay was Chairman of the Board of Fiduciary Trust Co. NY; Shepard Morgan
to Eugene Agger, 21 November 1955, Rutgers Special Collections and
University Archives, Eugene E. Agger papers, Box 5, Correspondence
1955–56.
114 Lamont to Parker Gilbert, 3 February 1930, CUL, GH, Box 1, Binder 1.
115 “Attacks Morgan and World Bank,” 30 March 1930, New York Times, p. 3.
On McFadden, see two books by Charles R. Geisst: Deals of the Century:
Wall Street, Mergers, and the Making of Modern America, Hoboken, NJ: John
Wiley & Sons, 2004, pp. 82–88, and Undue Influence, p. 72.
116 “Mr. McFadden’s Outburst,” New York Times, 29 March 1930, p. 18.
117 Lamont, “The Final Reparations Settlement,” Foreign Affairs, vol. 8, no.
3, April 1930.
118 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 1 April 1930, TML, CP, Box 17,
Folder Morgan & Co – Misc. Private Telegs 4 March 4 to 29 April 1930.
119 Hoover, Memoirs, vol. 3, p. 58.
Page 184
Page 184
120 Thomas W. Lamont, Academy of Political Science, 2 June 1930, SLU,
ODY, Box 802, Folder 1297S11.
121 Lamont to Morrow, 7 June 1930, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 113, Folder 16;
Chernow, The House of Morgan, p. 323.
122 The Smoot–Hawley tariff was not responsible for the Depression. Douglas
A. Irwin, “From Smoot-Hawley to Reciprocal Trade Agreements: Changing
the Course of U.S. Trade Policy in the 1930s,” in Michael D. Bordo, Claudia
Goldin, and Eugene N. White, eds., The Defining Moment: The Great
Depression and the American Economy in the Twentieth Century, Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, 1998, pp. 333–37; Barry Eichengreen, “The
Political Economy of the Smoot-Hawley Tariff,” NBER Working Paper
Series, No. 2001, August 1986.
123 Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 131, no. 3391, 21 June 1930, p.
4289.
124 Lamont to Martin Egan, 10 July 1930, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 92, Folder
24; Lamont to Jack Morgan, 12 September 1930, BL, TWL, Series II, Box
108, Folder 14.
125 Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 131, no. 3406, 4 October 1930,
p. 2106.
126 De Sanchez to Lamont, 21 October 1930, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 91,
Folder 17.
127 Leffingwell to Lamont, 14 August 1930, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 103,
Folder 14.
128 Lamont to Mellon, 18 September 1930, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 107,
Folder 14; J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 19 September 1930, BL,
Page 185
Page 185
TWL, Series II, Box 98, Folder 17; Lamont to Robert P. Lamont, 25
September 1930, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98, Folder 17.
129 Harry P. Davison to Lamont, 19 September 1930, Lamont to Robert P.
Lamont, 22 September 1930, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 102, Folder 20.
130 Robert P. Lamont to Lamont, 18 September 1930, Robert P. Lamont to
Lamont, 23 September 1930, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 102, Folder 20.
131 Hoover’s calendar indicates that he held multiple meetings in October
1930 with railroad executives and labour leaders. Lamont lobbied Hoover
regularly in October and November 1930. See the memo detailing a phone
conversation of 31 October 1930, Memo, 31 October 1930, BL, TWL, Series
II, Box 98, Folder 17, as well as his letters of 8 and 19 November and his
telephone message for Hoover on 25 November.
132 The Wheeler Committee accepted a date of 23 October for this meeting
but Harwood’s account, based on material not available to the Wheeler
Committee, is convincing that there were two separate meetings, one on the
night of 22 October and the second during the day on 23 October. Herbert H.
Harwood, Invisible Giants: The Empires of Cleveland’s Van Sweringen
Brothers, Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press, 2003, pp. 239–40.
133 See the testimony to the Wheeler Committee; Whitney’s “rescue party”
remark was made on 4 March 1937.
134 M.J. van Sweringen described how O.P. “pulled his chair over to a window
in Lamont’s office, propped his feet on the sill, and with his back turned to
Lamont, George Whitney, Harold Stanley, Arthur Anderson, and several
Morgan lawyers, ignored all their arguments. After a while they capitulated
and told my brother they would agree.” Harwood, Invisible Giants, p. 240.
135 Ibid., p. 239.
Page 186
Page 186
136 Burton Rascoe, “The Grim Anniversary,” The New Republic, vol. 64, no.
830, 29 October 1930, pp. 285–88. The New York Times ran a front-page
article as well as reprinting the address in its entirety. The Wall Street Journal
and Washington Post devoted space to his remarks, as did numerous other
papers. “T.W. Lamont Says Inopportune Tariff Hurt World Trade,” New York
Times, 15 November 1930, p. 1; p. 13 for the speech; “Lamont hopeful for
Prosperity,” Wall Street Journal, 17 November 1930, p. 8; “What the Bankers
Want,” Washington Post, 16 November 1930, p. S1.
137 Thomas W. Lamont, “Phases of The World Depression,” 14 November
1930, The Academy of Political Science. Many were not convinced. The
Washington Post dismissed the speech as the desire of “big money” to have
the “antitrust laws amended, the protective tariff reduced, and the war debts
cancelled.” “What the Bankers Want,” Washington Post, 16 November 1930,
p. S1. Dawes voiced his fear that what was in train was an “elemental
depression” akin to 1837, 1873, and 1893. Dawes to Young, 13 October 1930,
SLU, ODY, Box 17, Dawes, Charles G., Folder 57b.
138 Leffingwell to Lamont, 13 November 1930, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 103,
Folder 14.
139 Leffingwell to Lamont, 14 August 1930, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 103,
Folder 14.
Page 187
Page 187
4
“The End of the World”? The 1931
Crises
◈
Driving on the Columbia Highway through Oregon in 1931 Jackson Reynolds
was intercepted on the road by a waiter waving his white apron asking if there
was anyone in the car named Reynolds, that he was wanted on the telephone.
I … went inside and it was Mr. George Baker on the other end in New York
and he told me had just been talking with J.P. Morgan over the Transatlantic
Radio Telephone. Mr. Morgan had told Mr. Baker England was going off
gold on the following Monday, the 21st … all my hair stood on end …
when England went off gold it was like the end of the world to financial
thinking and it produced a tremendous repercussion all over the world, this
country included.1
When Britain left the gold standard in September 1931, it “was one of the
turning points in the monetary history of the twentieth century.”2 Postwar
reconstruction – monetary, economic, and political – tottered. Surveying the
damage wrought by a year of crises in November 1931, the Morgan partners
were dismayed but not accepting, cabling Morgan Grenfell: “We have worked
Page 188
Page 188
too hard too long together at rebuilding the world after the War not to want to
make every imaginable effort.”3
The series of events that had led to this remarkable statement mixing
defiance and hubris began in the spring of 1931 when the Austrian CreditAnstalt
bank collapsed.4 Though the BIS and the European central banks managed to
contain the Austrian crisis, fresh turmoil in Germany drove a speculative attack
on the City, whose German commitments were well known. Under pressure,
gold fled London. Sterling sagged, rallied, and then was ultimately forced off
gold. While J.P. Morgan & Co., Morgan Grenfell, and Morgan & Cie. were
insulated from the effects of the Austrian and German crises by virtue of their
limited exposure to the area, Morgan involvement built steadily as Britain was
affected, reaching a crescendo in August and September 1931. Throughout the
Morgan partners had one aim: maintaining the gold standard through a revival of
the wartime Allied coalition. If the CreditAnstalt crisis and German affairs were
a crisis of the losing belligerents in World War I, sterling’s abandonment of gold
was a crisis of the victors – Britain, France, and the United States. J.P. Morgan &
Co. was identified with the victors. Their disarray and weakness implied Morgan
weakness. Though the September crisis dealt a blow, the solution was not
withdrawing from the field but accepting that France was now the key to
European harmony. Hoover, in the Morgan estimation, needed to be guided to
this conclusion. Hoover, however, did not wish guidance from the Corner. The
events of 1931 were devastating to postwar stability. The view from 23 Wall
Street reinforces those interpretations that have argued that 1931 converted
economic crisis into the Depression.
*****
The crisis that blossomed in Austria in the spring of 1931 caught the Morgan
partners unaware. On 8 May 1931 the CreditAnstalt bank, associated with the
Page 189
Page 189
Rothschilds and the dominant bank in Austria, informed the Austrian
government that it was in dire straits. Its losses were roughly 85 per cent of its
equity. Frantic, secret meetings ensued as the Austrian government attempted to
determine what might be done. The formal public announcement of its losses
came on Monday 11 May.5 The Bank of England had known for some time of
the CreditAnstalt’s vulnerability. Nevertheless, the international markets,
including the City of London, and J.P. Morgan & Co. in New York, were
surprised. The 11 May announcement by the Austrian government pledged to
backstop CreditAnstalt, through assistance provided by the Austrian
government, the Austrian National Bank, and the Rothschilds. The remaining
outstanding losses would be covered by dipping into the reserves and
recapitalizing the bank. This plan failed to reassure investors. Norman had
suggested to the Austrian government that the BIS was the appropriate vehicle
through which assistance could be afforded. This idea was pursued with alacrity
by Vienna. McGarrah began to sound out central bankers about extending a loan,
soon set at 100 million schillings, to the Austrian National Bank.6
Initially, the Morgan partners in New York knew little more than what they
read in the New York papers. Cabling Morgan Grenfell on 13 May for more
information, they confessed their ignorance, remarking with relief that
apparently CreditAnstalt was “now in good standing.”7 Even though J.P.
Morgan & Co. had made loans to Austria, it had never been central to Morgan
interests, nor did the firm have representation in Vienna. New York relied upon
Morgan Grenfell in London, Morgan & Cie. in Paris, and its connections with
the BIS to evaluate what was happening. Fummi, in Rome, does not seem to
have furnished information. News from London and Paris on 14 and 15 May
made it clear that CreditAnstalt was not “in good standing.” The Morgan
partners were informed by Morgan & Cie. that Fraser had signalled that the
Austrian National Bank was seeking to borrow 75 million schillings externally,
Page 190
Page 190
contrary to the terms of the 1930 Austrian government loan in which J.P. Morgan
& Co. had been a participant. Morgan & Cie. cabled that the French government
had asked the Banque de Paris et de Pays-Bas (Paribas) to explore a loan to the
Austrian government and were hoping that J.P. Morgan & Co. might lead an
American group. The Morgan partners, replying, demonstrated both their
hesitance and their confusion. They told Morgan & Cie. that they had not been
asked to participate in an Austrian loan, but conditions in the United States ruled
out any such operation. While they were heartened that French assistance was a
possibility, the Morgan partners were mystified as to why aid was needed – had
the CreditAnstalt rescue collapsed?8 As it became apparent that additional
capital was required, J.P. Morgan & Co. indicated that, while they were willing
to waive the covenant restricting fresh Austrian borrowing in the 1930 loan
agreement, they were not prepared to stump up new funds. When CreditAnstalt
contacted Morgan Grenfell directly on 19 May asking for a six-month extension
of credit lines, the answer was a firm “no” following consultations in the City
and with J.P. Morgan & Co.
The BIS struggled to consummate the Austrian central bank credit, which
was not finalized until 31 May.9 Eyeing these troubles, Norman, who had struck
a committee of the CreditAnstalt’s foreign creditors in late May, asked Morgan
Grenfell to join. The latter did so but only after seeking the sanction of the
Morgan partners in New York. Reluctantly, J.P. Morgan & Co. agreed, fearing
that the committee might end up frightening, rather than reassuring, foreign
creditors.10 In late May J.P. Morgan & Co. took two other steps. One was to
confer in New York. The partners discussed matters with Harrison and Paul
Warburg of the Bank of Manhattan. The objective was to clarify the attitude of
New York bankers to maintaining their credit lines to Austria, while attempting
to discern how large those lines were. National City Bank had reduced its credit
line to Austria to $1 million from $2 million, while Guaranty Trust had cancelled
Page 191
Page 191
its credit line of $2 million. Ruefully, J.P. Morgan signalled to Morgan Grenfell
that they had not been consulted by either bank before they made their decisions,
a confession that suggested the limits of Morgan influence on those institutions.
The second step was to inform Dean Jay in Paris, in the “strictest confidence,”
about Norman’s activities in London. For his part, Dean Jay informed his
partners in New York that Paribas was doing everything they could to float a
loan to Austria and was anxious to bring it to fruition.11
Crisis rippled. Berlin and Vienna had announced their intention in March
1931 to explore a customs union, a possibility that alarmed Paris. The initial
French reaction was to refrain from deploying French financial power to block
the customs union as the price of providing aid to rescue CreditAnstalt.12 Within
Germany there was a growing range of political, economic, and financial strains.
The marked gains made by the National Socialists and the German Communist
Party (KPD) in the German federal elections of September 1930 had revealed the
burgeoning political strength of the extremes. With the centrist parties enfeebled,
Heinrich Brüning’s government was dependent upon the support of the aged
president, Paul von Hindenburg, for its survival. The much-derided Young Plan
was a target for Brüning and his foreign minister, Julius Curtius. Schacht had
shown the way: in October 1930 he had made a lecture tour in the United States
where he declaimed openly that Germany should no longer meet its Young Plan
obligations. While the Brüning government had not yet taken that step when the
CreditAnstalt crisis broke, the temptation to do so was growing.
The American ambassador to Germany, Frederic M. Sackett, had for some
time been signalling to Stimson and Hoover that reparations had been made the
scapegoat for the worsening economic situation in Germany. Sackett had reached
the conclusion that American banks were increasingly leery of throwing good
money after bad and were worried about their outstanding short-term credits to
Germany. Fixated on the communist threat represented by the KPD, Sackett
Page 192
Page 192
returned to the United States in the late spring of 1931. Conversing with Hoover
on 6 May, Sackett suggested that relief was necessary but that a crisis that might
bring the KPD to power was not imminent.13 There ensued discussions among
Hoover, Stimson, and Mellon which were inconclusive. Ogden Mills, the
undersecretary of the Treasury, and Eugene Meyer, the governor of the Federal
Reserve Board from September 1930 to May 1933, were also apprised.
Following a warning from Harrison to Stimson on 27 May that the CreditAnstalt
crisis might spread to Germany, Hoover, Stimson, Mellon, Mills, and Meyer
were aware that German public finances were deteriorating.14 Sackett met again
with Hoover on 2 and 3 June, this time with his fellow ambassadors, Dawes and
Hugh Gibson, to press his assessment.15 As it happened, these talks took place
against the backdrop of a planned visit by Brüning and Curtius to Britain on 5
June to meet with MacDonald and Henderson.
The Morgan partners understood that pressure was mounting. Unlike many
New York banks, J.P. Morgan & Co. had no short-term credits outstanding to
Germany, while Morgan Grenfell was the least exposed of the leading City of
London merchant banks.16 Yet there was reason for concern: the partners feared
what might happen in the event of a unilateral German decision to cease
servicing the Dawes and Young Plan loans. On 3 June 1931 Lamont attended a
private lunch for Sackett in New York where the guest list was dominated by the
heads of the New York banks. Trying to reassure the bankers about Germany,
and the safety of their short-term loans, Sackett made, in Lamont’s words, a
“dreadful” speech which inadvertently “scared them to death.” Relaying this
assessment to Lippmann – the choice of correspondent an indication of how
serious Lamont thought the matter – Lamont guessed that short-term credits
outstanding in Germany were approximately $2 billion. Much of this total had
been extended by American banks. The Chase National had more than $90
million in frozen credits in Germany in July 1931 and National City Bank had
Page 193
Page 193
more than $87 million. Two banks noted for their Morgan connections, Guaranty
Trust and Bankers Trust, had respectively $46 million and nearly $21 million of
exposure.17 There were thus good reasons for Morgan concern. If the Germans
opted for a reparations hiatus under the terms of the Young Plan agreement –
which they had the right to invoke – Lamont feared that panic would ensue, the
mark would fall, and the short-term American credits to Germany would hang in
the balance with attendant negative consequences for banking stability in the
United
States.
While
economic
historians
have
challenged
whether
“transmission” of the crisis occurred, there is little question that its possibility
preoccupied the Morgan partners.18
A lengthy cable despatched by the Morgan partners in New York to Morgan
Grenfell the same day was sombre. Its purpose was to distil the American
perspective and to ensure that Norman understood matters clearly. J.P. Morgan &
Co. argued that any German effort to either impose a moratorium on reparations
or call for the convening of a Special Advisory Committee under the Young Plan
would be a mistake. A moratorium would be interpreted in the United States as
“repudiation,” unsettling American holders of German short-term paper, already
uneasy given the ongoing CreditAnstalt saga. The risk of capital flight from
Germany was real. The New York partners had refined Lamont’s estimate:
American banks held about $1 billion in short-term German obligations,
including deposits in German banks. While for the moment those banks that they
had spoken with were standing firm, anxiety best described their attitude. Should
the American banks cancel their lines of credit and withdraw their deposits, “it
would be quite impossible for the German banks to meet the enormous volume.”
If such a scenario manifested, New York warned that counting on the
Reichsbank, the BIS, or European central banks to save the day would be
foolhardy. Given this, while J.P. Morgan & Co. appreciated the conundrum faced
Page 194
Page 194
by the Brüning government, the Reichstag was not scheduled to meet until the
fall. The Morgan partners counselled that doing nothing was the most sensible
course. They confessed that not all in New York concurred – Mortimer L. Schiff
of Kuhn, Loeb & Co. and Paul Warburg were two on Wall Street who thought
otherwise. Imaginings of a quid pro quo on reparations and war debts were
flights of fancy in Morgan eyes. Lamont had told MacDonald in May 1931 that
he should disabuse himself of such hopes.19
Confronted with this cable, Grenfell met Norman. The latter “had no
illusions.” He told Grenfell that Austria and the CreditAnstalt remained “in a
chaotic state” despite efforts to restore order. Morgan Grenfell warned that if the
Germans opted for a moratorium after the upcoming London meeting, “the
results would be lamentable and full of danger not only to all Europe but to the
other continents.” New York was informed that Brüning had suggested to
Hindenburg “a very drastic decree … involving heavy reduction of expenditure,
fresh taxes and reductions of salaries. Both extreme wings in German politics are
gaining in strength and the proposed program will make the Government
increasingly unpopular. We hope however that Hindenburg may be willing to
take such strong measures.” As for speeches in the United States that advocated
cancellation of war debts, Morgan Grenfell recognized that they were not
mainstream but were seized on eagerly in Britain.20
Such was the situation when Lamont telephoned Hoover on 5 June 1931
with a proposal. Lamont’s intervention was designed to find a way out of the
impasse – outright cancellation of reparations and war debts was impossible
given congressional opinion. Failure to act, however, might imperil American
banks. Within J.P. Morgan & Co. Leffingwell drafted a memorandum suggesting
a time-limited moratorium. The memorandum was given to Lamont, who seized
Page 195
Page 195
upon it and consulted with Jack Morgan. He was in favour of bringing it to the
president’s attention. The decision was taken to contact Hoover.21
Lamont suggested a holiday on international government debt payments.
He informed the president of the J.P. Morgan & Co. cable to Morgan Grenfell on
4 June. A German moratorium, Lamont told Hoover, would be devastating for
American banks holding short-term German credits. As the debtor powers were
not in a position to suggest a moratorium, only the United States, the chief
creditor, could plausibly declare a moratorium without damaging effects. Hoover
was unconvinced, remarking that the political obstacles were formidable. The
congressional elections of November 1930 had robbed the Republicans of their
working majority in both the Senate and the House of Representatives. Congress
was anti-cancellation, dismayed at European armament expenditures, and
viewed France’s growing gold stockpile as a threat. Lamont acknowledged these
impediments but worried that, if nothing was done, a European crash would
“prolong our agony of business depression by years.” If framed properly, with a
message that a moratorium would benefit American farmers and workers,
Lamont thought that much of the political opposition could be defused. Doing
so, he advised Hoover, would not only benefit the country but also end the
whispers that had been circulating about denying Hoover the Republican
nomination in the 1932 convention. This amalgam of blandishment and menace
failed to convince. Hoover told Lamont that he remained “very doubtful.” The
phone call ended with Hoover inquiring with Lamont whether or not Morrow,
now a Republican senator from New Jersey, had been consulted. When Lamont
indicated that he had not been, Hoover asked if Lamont would let Morrow know
that he would be in contact. Lamont wrapped up the conversation by remarking:
“One last thing, Mr. President, that is, that if anything by any chance ever comes
Page 196
Page 196
out of this suggestion we should wish to be forgotten in the matter. This is your
plan and nobody else’s.”22
It has been argued that this phone call establishes that the Hoover
moratorium was a Morgan plan.23 Such an interpretation, while appealing from a
perspective that sees Morgan influence as dominant within the Hoover
administration, is unconvincing. Prior to the phone call considerations of relief
had been in the air for months. The transcript of the conversation makes plain
Hoover’s hesitancy; he was far from won over. His natural inclination was to
question counsel proffered by the Morgan partners.24 Years later, when Stimson
was asked by Allen about the genesis of the Hoover moratorium, Stimson
professed that his memory on the matter was “very sketchy” but he was certain
on one point: “It was in the minds of all of us. I have never heard from anyone
that the plan was originated in Owen Young’s mind or that ‘continual pressure
from Morrow, Mellon, Dawes, and various New York bankers’ was exerted.” He
went on to tell Allen that the plan as it was formulated was “essentially”
Hoover’s.25
Stimson’s recollection may have been vague but the thrust of his
remembrance is accurate. Following the phone call between Lamont and Hoover,
conversations ensued in which Parker Gilbert was the principal Morgan
participant. Parker Gilbert had become a Morgan partner on 2 January 1931.
With his expertise in reparations and war debts, honed by his years as the Agent-
General for Reparations Payments in Berlin, Lippmann judged that Parker
Gilbert had “unmatched authority.”26 For an individual whose interwar
reputation stood so high that he was nicknamed the “King of the World,” Parker
Gilbert has vanished into the mists of time (see Figure 4.1). Today only
specialists in international relations and finance recognize his name. He once
graced the cover of Time magazine and was described by Moreau as a “great
Page 197
Page 197
American.” Montagu Norman tried and failed to get him a Nobel prize as well as
an honorary doctorate at Oxford.27 Parker Gilbert differed from his partners in
his assessment of the overall responsibility of the principal states in the
complications arising from the World War I settlements. Parker Gilbert was anti-
German, which fit neatly with Morgan culture, but his animosity vis-à-vis the
Germans was extraordinary. His time in Berlin had not been a happy one. He
emerged from the experience with a visceral distaste for the Germans, with
Schacht the chief target of his bile. The latter Parker Gilbert regarded as
duplicitous, untrustworthy, and egomaniacal, all of which was accurate but
impolitic to display as openly as Parker Gilbert did.28 More muted, but apparent,
was Parker Gilbert’s jaundice about the British. Parker Gilbert deemed that
behind a mask of pretending to act on behalf of humanity, London was pursuing
its “world policy” to the detriment of others. Parker Gilbert had clashed with
British Treasury officials, notably Leith-Ross. Contrasting were Parker Gilbert’s
views on France. As he told Morrow, “France, in my opinion, is as true a friend
as we have among the nations, and in all my five years over here there is no
country that has played as fair and straight with us as she has.” In Parker
Gilbert’s estimation, Paris had been working faithfully and stolidly to maintain
European stability.29
Page 198
Page 198
Figure 4.1 S. Parker Gilbert, Agent-General for Reparations and J.P. Morgan
& Co. partner 1931–38.
Dephot/ullstein bild/Getty Images.
As the discussions unfolded, Harrison, Mills, Parker Gilbert, Morrow, and
Meyer debated, occasionally soliciting advice from Young. There were two
questions: first, should the Hoover administration do anything; second, if the
answer was yes, how should it be done? Harrison, Mills, Parker Gilbert, and
Morrow agreed that the United States should act. Mills duly informed Hoover of
this consensus on 9–10 June. His recommendation was that the United States
should adopt an active role but that a lack of reliable information was
handicapping American decision-making. Accordingly, Mills suggested that
Harrison be sent to Europe to report first-hand. Hoover agreed, but when Mills
raised the idea with Harrison, he baulked as did Meyer, both of whom thought
Page 199
Page 199
that it was inadvisable. Sending Harrison meant delay. Other options were then
canvassed. Harrison, following consultation with Young, laid out three
possibilities: the calling of a general conference on war debt and reparations by
Washington which gave rise to the objection that it would not be a swift
resolution to the problem; prodding the debtors to submit a request for a
postponement; or an American offer to postpone debts for two years. Harrison,
Mills, Parker Gilbert, and Young all preferred the third choice.30 Hoover did not
make a decision until sometime thereafter. Hoover departed the capital for
Rapidan Camp and then Indiana and did not return to Washington until 18 June.
Dawes spoke with the president on 16 June, by which date Hoover had accepted
the notion of a moratorium but was unsure as to whether he would opt for a one-
or two-year grace period. Hoover settled on a one-year moratorium, largely
because it made the task of corralling congressional support simpler.31
Morgan doubts about Hoover’s ability to juggle successfully the competing
interests involved led Leffingwell and Parker Gilbert to urge Lamont to contact
the president. Their fear was that Hoover would foreclose French adherence to
the moratorium by proposing too rigid a plan. Reading their correspondence, it is
plain that the Morgan partners thought that Hoover was not the man to be
negotiating with the French. His jagged obstinacy needed smoothing. Lamont’s
hubris lay in thinking that he could accomplish this task. Lamont and Hoover
spoke on 19 June and again on 20 June. The conversations revealed the distance
between the Morgan partners and Hoover. Lamont’s suggestion on 19 June that
Hoover frame the proposal as generally as possible to allow for flexibility was
rejected unceremoniously by the president who told Lamont that he had made
commitments to obtain congressional backing for the plan. The moratorium
proposal would be straightforward. “The French,” Hoover told Lamont, “can
take it or leave it.” The next day Hoover rang Lamont in the evening. Because so
Page 200
Page 200
many congressmen were leaking the plan, the president informed Lamont, he
had decided to issue it to the press earlier than planned. Hoover then read the
text of his statement to Lamont. Lamont, who had not been informed of its
contents, asked Hoover when he intended to release it. Hoover told Lamont that
he had already done so, ahead of calling him. Lamont was taken aback, raising
with Hoover the likelihood that given the character of the statement, which
disavowed any connection between war debts and reparations, and rejected
cancellation of war debts in favour of a one-year moratorium on
intergovernmental debts that would disadvantage France, there was bound to be
a “mess with the French.” Hoover understood this; he hoped that Morgan
influence in Paris would dispose the French government to react favourably.
Lamont was sceptical, telling the president that, while J.P. Morgan & Co. had
cordial relations with the Bank of France, “our contacts with the present
government in France are very slight.”32
Lamont’s misgivings were borne out. Paris did not greet the Hoover
moratorium with approbation. The French had received more warning than J.P.
Morgan & Co. of the plan’s appearance but not much. Pierre Laval’s ministry
construed the Hoover moratorium as a return to a policy of bludgeoning France
to spare the Germans in the interest of salvaging British and American private
finance. The French were aware that both the City of London and New York had
substantial short-term commitments to Germany. Paris negotiated, seizing on the
moratorium as a means of securing concessions from Germany on issues such as
the customs union, naval construction, and a continuance of German payment of
unconditional reparations.33 Lacking immediate French acquiescence, Hoover
fumed. In conversation with Lamont on 29 June, Hoover lambasted the French:
“Their attitude has been intolerable.” Lamont, seeking to redirect Hoover’s
anger, agreed that the “The French are the most difficult people to deal with in
Page 201
Page 201
the whole world.” Having mollified Hoover, Lamont sought to nudge the
president toward compromise, observing that, while reaction in the United States
to the moratorium had been very positive, if it should fail at the first jump
Hoover would be blamed, just as he was blamed for the Depression by the
American people. The president was recalcitrant, arguing that “principles” were
more important than credit. Lamont was “all wrong” if he believed that
Congress would defer without a struggle. His gambit having failed, Lamont
reminded the president “that the Germans have been the ones chiefly responsible
for bringing this situation on themselves.” In this light the French were resistant,
naturally, to having to “pull Germany out of the pit which she has dug for
herself.”34 Irate, Hoover told Lamont that perhaps the way forward lay in
bypassing France. As it happened, despite Hoover’s bluster, a Franco-American
agreement was reached in the days that followed on 6 July.
Lamont fussed. He worried that his efforts to influence Hoover’s approach
to the moratorium had been construed by the president as intrusive and
unwelcome. Lamont instructed Martin Egan to contact the White House to
pledge his loyalty, to impart the message that he had always had Hoover’s best
interests at heart, that he wanted the moratorium to succeed and desired fervently
that Hoover be “renominated and re-elected.” J.P. Morgan & Co., Lamont
insisted, had endeavoured to persuade the French to accept Hoover’s plan. Much
of this abnegation was typical of Lamont and may be discounted as the
expression of his desire, whenever possible, to remain on good terms with the
White House. Underlying the grovelling was a hard kernel – the partners
believed in the virtues of the moratorium plan. As Leffingwell put it, “the world
is no longer heading for the precipice.”35
By early July there were signs that the first flush of enthusiasm within the
United States for the moratorium was fading. Expectations that an agreement
Page 202
Page 202
would pave the way for an improvement in the American economy were
beginning to look ill-founded. The American Bankers Association Journal, in an
article and editorial on the moratorium, noted French “hesitancy and inability”
as “disconcerting.” Any push toward cancellation of war debts by the
administration would be unpopular with the American public. This was not
simply an abstract calculation:
Today, with several millions of men and women unemployed and with tax
burdens increasing, war debts take on a new aspect, because any revision or
suspension mean or seem to mean an increase in our tax burden. Taxes are
an intimate, personal problem in America, hence our interest in the Hoover
proposal.
The ABA warned that there was a danger in heeding the cry again to “save
Europe,” proponents of assistance would exhaust American goodwill.36 The
Commercial and Financial Chronicle, after an editorial on 4 July voiced the
conviction that “[a] definite start has now been made towards a better state of
things,” was a week later acknowledging “disappointing” early returns,
remarking that a recovery in trade will be “slow … and perhaps be quite
gradual.”37
Doubt was furthered by a worsening of the German financial crisis. On 26
June the announcement of a $100 million renewable central bank loan in which
the FRBNY, Bank of France, Bank of England, and BIS took equal shares
furnished the Reichsbank with some breathing room in the face of heavy losses
of its reserves in gold and foreign exchange. The Hoover administration had
been wary of American participation, fearing that doing so would remove any
leverage on Paris to comply with the Hoover moratorium proposal. As matters
transpired, the reprieve was momentary. Pressure mounted on the Reichsbank
Page 203
Page 203
again, with heavy losses of gold between 30 June and 3 July. By 4 July the
entirety of the central bank credit had been exhausted and the Reichsbank was
below its legal note cover ratio in gold and foreign exchange. Facing serious
domestic financial complications within Germany, in the shape of the failure of a
leading woollen textile firm, Nordwolle, and attendant strain upon the
Darmstädter und Nationalbank and Dresdner banks, both of whom were owed
significant sums by Nordwolle, the Reichsbank governor, Hans Luther,
staunched the wound by drawing down the entirety of a $50 million credit that
had been arranged through a group of New York banks in the 1920s under the
auspices of the International Acceptance Corporation.38 Luther hoped that he
would be able to parlay this credit into a much larger loan from Britain, France,
and the United States. He intended to voyage to London to meet Norman ahead
of the latter’s journey to Basle for BIS meetings. Harrison, who had been
canvassing the New York banks to ensure that they were maintaining their
outstanding lines of credit with Germany, was informed by Norman on 8 July
that the Reichsbank had lost another $10 million in reserves that day. Norman
told Harrison that he thought Luther hoped to obtain a loan of somewhere
between $500 million and $1 billion to combat the drain. Harrison was blunt,
telling Norman that there was no possibility that Luther could find the “huge
amount” that he sought in the New York market, a view that was confirmed on
16 July when Harrison met with leading New York bankers, including Wiggin
and Mitchell. Their collective assessment was that even $50–75 million might
not be attainable, which Harrison duly relayed to Mills.39
J.P. Morgan & Co. had been kept informed through Grenfell and
Harrison.40 Norman had authorized Harrison to share information on the talks
with only Morgan on Wall Street. The Morgan partners were furious at Luther’s
manoeuvring. In a cable to Grenfell on 10 July they made known their
Page 204
Page 204
displeasure. There was no hope of raising the amount that Luther contemplated.
The German choice to halt service of the Young Plan loan has “very gravely
impaired her own credit.” Nor was it apparent why this step was necessary, as
the Hoover moratorium granted the German budget substantial relief the coming
year, on the order of $400 million. What the Germans were trying was
unconscionable: “it seems incomprehensible to us that the responsible
authorities in any modern civilized State could even be thinking in such terms.”
The Morgan partners charged that the Germans were exporting their financial
problems to the world, running the risk of a withdrawal of credit and subsequent
paralysis of the German economy in the process. They urged that Berlin meet its
obligations even if this meant a drop in Reichsbank reserves and a depreciation
of the mark. The Reichsbank had shirked its duty; the discount rate must be
raised and restrictions imposed to prevent capital flows abroad. The Brüning
government was complicit, as it, in common with past German governments, had
failed to tackle the financial weakness at home.41 Striking in its obtuseness
regarding political conditions in Germany, Grenfell was asked to show the cable
to Norman as soon as possible. Norman was en route to Basle and so Grenfell
passed it to the deputy-governor, Sir Ernest Harvey, and requested the Treasury
cable Norman in Switzerland with a copy. Jack Morgan, the following day, made
sure that McGarrah was circulated the cable as well. Neither the Bank of
England nor the BIS could be in doubt of the Morgan position.42
Motivating this extraordinary missive was fear – fear that the Germans
would no longer service the Dawes and Young Plan loans whose bonds had
already fallen markedly in price on US markets, thus damaging Morgan prestige;
fear that transmission of the financial crises in Germany and Central Europe to
New York would ensue; fear that Berlin was manoeuvring to secure cancellation
of reparations with the aim in mind of obtaining revision of the Versailles Treaty;
Page 205
Page 205
fear that if reparations ended, so too would war debts with the attendant political
consequences in the United States; fear that the Morgan efforts to help
rehabilitate and stabilize Europe, from Dawes to the Young Plan to the BIS, had
been for naught. The strident language deployed comported with the firm’s
instinctive anti-German posture. Morgan Grenfell, while acknowledging that the
cable represented the views of all the Morgan partners, was moved to declare
“we thought we traced the hand of Parker Gilbert.”43
The London partners were correct: Parker Gilbert was the force behind this
cable. With the complicity of Morrow, Parker Gilbert was telling Mills and
Hoover in mid-July 1931 that reparation was a European problem, not an
American one. The solution to the German financial crisis, Parker Gilbert
posited, was to accept that no new American loans would go to Germany.
American policy should be to tell the Europeans to get their own house in order,
given that it had been the Germans who had destroyed their own credit. The
appeal of this line of reasoning to Hoover, whose mind was tracking toward the
conviction that the Depression had arisen in Europe, was undeniable.44 While
the White House might find a scapegoat in Germany, there were risks for J.P.
Morgan & Co. The Morgan partners did not want an embittered Germany to
renounce the Dawes and Young Plan loans.
The willingness of the Morgan partners to be swayed by Parker Gilbert
owed much to their identification with the wartime triumvirate of Britain,
France, and the United States. When Herbert was asked to sit on a committee
composed largely of accepting houses and clearing banks in the City with
outstanding commitments in Germany, he declined, to the relief of the Morgan
partners in New York. As Whigham, who was in New York, told Grenfell on 14
July, “They feel strongly that none of the Morgan Houses should be dragged into
a position involving responsibility for dealing with the German situation.”45 If
the Morgan firms became entangled, there was every chance that J.P. Morgan &
Page 206
Page 206
Co. would run afoul of one or more of London, Paris, and Washington. The
Morgan partners were well aware that the three ex-Allies had differences on the
German financial crisis. Too much involvement might result in alienation. J.P.
Morgan & Co. policy in the Austrian and German crises was not to offend
Britain, France, or the United States, while simultaneously attempting to secure
continued compliance by Berlin with the Dawes and Young Plans. Success was
unlikely but there was no real choice, for, while German failure to service the
Dawes and Young Plan loans would hurt J.P. Morgan & Co., a divorce from
Paris, London, or Washington would be unthinkable.
The hardship of the balancing act was demonstrated in mid-July. On
Sunday 12 July a conference was held at the FRBNY. Those present – including
Mills, Parker Gilbert, Leffingwell, and Burgess – knew that the Darmstädter
Bank was not going to open Monday morning. How, if at all, should the United
States respond? Meyer, who had not been invited to the meeting and had learned
about it inadvertently from Lamont, joined the gathering in progress. Hoover,
who was at Rapidan Camp, was consulted by phone. Under consideration was
whether Washington should issue a statement expressing sympathy with the
German situation. Most present were in favour of expression of support for the
Germans. Parker Gilbert, however, was opposed on the grounds that it would
represent an open-ended “moral commitment.” Meyer agreed with Parker
Gilbert. An annoyed Hoover, who had been inclined to side with the majority
position, conceded in a huff.46
Days later the House of Morgan became enmeshed in a spat within the
Hoover administration between Stimson and Hoover and, overlaying it, a dispute
with France regarding the German financial crisis.47 At issue was a hastily
scheduled conference in London called to discuss German financial woes.
Stimson and Mellon were in Europe, though it was the former who took the lead,
as Mellon, while still nominally the secretary of the Treasury, had been
Page 207
Page 207
supplanted by his undersecretary, Mills. The Morgan partners in New York were
bemused as to the point of the London conference. They could not see any
justification for it should the aim be to reel American financial institutions into
making loans to Germany. As J.P. Morgan & Co. told Grenfell on 15 July, “our
banks are loaded up with short-term German paper” and “America has done her
bit.” Correcting Germany’s problems, the Morgan partners said, was Europe’s
challenge, views that were reiterated in a subsequent cable to London on 17 July.
For his part, Grenfell agreed; he could not see what the conference was likely to
accomplish. Dashed expectations were the likely outcome.48 Lamont met with
Hoover on 15 July and it is hard to believe that he had not made this stance
crystal clear. Certainly, if Lamont did not do so on the 15th, he did on 18 July
following a contretemps in Paris involving Dean Jay of Morgan & Cie., Stimson,
the Bank of France, and Pierre-Étienne Flandin, the minister of finance in
Laval’s government.
Dean Jay had been cabled J.P. Morgan & Co.’s assessment that there was
no prospect of raising money for Germany in the United States, a message that
he duly passed on to Governor Clément Moret of the Bank of France. At dinner
on 17 July Flandin asked Dean Jay about the chances of a German loan, to which
query Dean Jay furnished the unvarnished opinion of his New York partners – no
loan was feasible. Later that evening, at the residence of the American
ambassador, Stimson, Flandin, and Dean Jay conversed. Flandin told Stimson
that there was no reason for French participation in the upcoming London
conference if an American loan had been ruled out, as any plausible scheme was
doomed without it. Stimson, who had staked his hopes on the success of the
London conference, lambasted Lamont and Leffingwell who had written the
offending cable and dressed down Dean Jay for meddling in “unregulated
language.” Stimson phoned Hoover and asked him to intercede with Lamont to
Page 208
Page 208
undo the damage that Stimson thought had been wrought.49 A phone call
between Hoover and Lamont ensued, in which Lamont told Hoover that, while
the bank was wholly behind his moratorium plan, “we ought not to fool
ourselves on the investment phase of the situation.”50
What the conference imbroglio revealed was the growing distance between
Hoover and Stimson, the tension between J.P. Morgan & Co. and the Hoover
administration, and how complicated reparations and war debts continued to be
for Morgan partners desiring not to see friction among Britain, France, and the
United States.51 The London conference itself, held 20–23 July, was a damp
squib, as the Morgan partners had forecast, with its only serious steps the
renewal of the $100 million central bank credit to the Reichsbank and the
sanctioning of what became the Wiggin Committee that was charged to examine
the problem of short-term credits to Germany.52 This outcome owed little to
Morgan action, irrespective of what either Stimson or Hoover might have
thought.53 Late in July 1931 Lamont urged Hoover to make another effort to
encourage French and German conversations. He told the president that without
a European settlement on reparations American prosperity would remain
elusive.54
Yet, in urging this course, it is apparent that Lamont failed to understand
how traumatic the events that had begun with CreditAnstalt were. Young wrote
Lamont, “I think your judgment and that of Parker Gilbert that Germany needed
to be shaken down to help herself is turning out to be one hundred per cent
correct.” Frequently the Morgan partners voiced the conviction that a clearer day
had dawned; late in June, early in July, and again at the end of July this was
apparent. Lamont told Hoover “the storm seems to be dying down” and Grenfell
that “the worst of our crises is over for the time being.”55 A more far-sighted
assessment was furnished by Rist. Writing Leffingwell early in August, he
Page 209
Page 209
warned that since Stresemann’s death the “extreme nationalist elements have
revived with limitless audacity … No conciliation is possible with such elements
… which precipitated their own country and all Europe in the 1914 catastrophe.”
Rist dismissed the Red threat propagated by Sackett: “The Communist peril,
about which Germany makes much ado, will always be, in Germany as in
France, a mere phantom which the police can quiet whenever they wish. The
only real peril to the peace of the world is nationalism, because at heart the
majority of the German nation is prepared to follow the Nationalists if they
win.”56 Leffingwell, in circulating this letter to his partners, underlined in double
the last sentence. Morgan policy, however, insisted on German compliance with
the Young and Dawes loans regardless of what the ramifications might be for
German politics and for European stability.
*****
The toast by Ambassador Paul Claudel, upon the occasion of the Franco-
American agreement on the Hoover moratorium in July, “To the crisis we have
just avoided and to the catastrophe which will follow,” displayed a surer
understanding as German financial crisis was followed by British financial
crisis.57 The events that led to Britain’s abandonment of the gold standard have
attracted considerable attention. The contemporary legend of a “banker’s ramp”
attributed a central, villainous role to the Morgan partners who dictated the fate
of a hapless, woebegone Labour government. Scholars have interred this myth
which no longer commands notice.58 Historians have depicted the summer of
1931 as either the apex of Morgan influence internationally, in which relations
with the British government were especially intimate, or the ending of an
interwar period in which private bankers played an unusually prominent part in
international affairs.59 While there is no doubt that the House of Morgan was
integral to the unfolding of the sterling crisis, the most striking traits concerning
Page 210
Page 210
the Morgan posture until the collapse of the Labour government on 23 August
are reactivity and an insistence on engaging France. J.P. Morgan & Co.
responded to initiatives from London rather than instigated them, while the
Morgan partners thought that reconstitution of the victorious wartime alliance
would allow for the maintenance of the gold standard by Britain.
As early as mid-July the auguries were worrying. On 23 July Grenfell
warned that the Bank of England had lost £20 million in gold “in the last few
days.” The bank rate had been raised by 1 per cent to 3.5 per cent. Grenfell told
Jack Morgan, en route to London, that Norman wanted a long talk as soon as he
arrived. The following day Grenfell cabled that the Bank of England had lost
another £5 million in gold. The Bank of England gold reserve dropped from
£164 million on 15 July to £132 million on 29 July. Upon landing, Jack Morgan
met Norman with Grenfell and Whigham.60 The talks left Jack Morgan feeling
uneasy; Norman was not well, had fulminated about the lack of grip of
government ministers, and had asked whether J.P. Morgan & Co. might arrange
an American loan. Jack Morgan had told Norman that this would only be
possible if the Labour government tabled a plan to move to a balanced budget.
His New York partners were leery – in their view the timing was not propitious
for a British loan. If the groundwork was begun, it might be possible to
undertake an operation. Jack Morgan dismissed this idea, instructing his partners
that they were not to raise the prospect of a British loan with other banks. While
the New York partners restated their commitment to Britain and indicated that
they thought the British financial position was “per se impregnable,” their tone
suggested otherwise.61 Hesitancy may have been driven by their knowledge that
the central bank credit talks were underway. Their conclusion seemed for a
fleeting moment to redress British problems.
Expectation of improvement was ill-founded. Norman left the Bank of
England at the end of July, having succumbed to the strain, and was replaced by
Page 211
Page 211
Harvey.62 This change did not alter the flow of information to Jack Morgan. As
he put it, “they have … taken me into rather secret councils.” Jack Morgan was
informed in the first week of August that the central bank credit had failed to
stem the pressure on sterling. Privy to this information, Jack Morgan forwarded
an analysis of the political and financial situation to his partners. The Labour
government, “weak kneed and rather stupid,” was handicapped by the inability
of Snowden and MacDonald to control the party. To his son Harry, Jack Morgan
confided that he thought that confidence could be restored quickly with “strong
action” leading to a balanced budget, but “of course no one knows whether they
have the guts to take such action.” No help could be expected from Lloyd
George and the Liberals, for, while Lloyd George grasped matters perfectly, he
feared triggering an election that would result in the eradication of his party.
With political will lacking, the projections of an increased budget deficit
trumpeted in the May report were driving market apprehensions.63 Undoubtedly
there was more than a dash of Grenfell and perhaps a soupçon of Baldwin in this
missive, for Jack Morgan had met with the Conservative leader before he went
on holiday.
New York responded with two cables on 8 August, telling Jack Morgan that
Harrison, on his own volition, but with the blessing of Harvey, had approached
them about a British credit in New York. The partners were taken aback – this
was scant days after the central bank credit had been opened. New York told
Jack Morgan that they had made this point with Harrison, stressing that the
chances of a loan were slim. Their advice to Harrison was that the way forward
was through closer central bank cooperation. France needed to be consulted.
Jack Morgan agreed. He told his partners that Grenfell understood the necessity
of working with the Bank of France and the FRBNY, as did the Bank of
England.64
Page 212
Page 212
Jack Morgan departed London for Scotland on 9 August. Between 8 August
and 19 August there was no communication between Morgan Grenfell and J.P.
Morgan & Co., though Grenfell did communicate with Jack Morgan
sporadically. Grenfell continued to be engaged in the London discussions by
virtue of his position on the Court of Directors and his standing as a Tory MP,
though he did not participate in meetings attended by Cabinet ministers.65
Harvey at the Bank of England, aided by allies in the City, maintained a steady
drumbeat in favour of budget economies lest the gold standard be imperilled.
MacDonald and Snowden were receptive, as were Conservative and Liberal
politicians. Indeed, as Philip Williamson has noted, there was virtually no
dissension in such circles with the proposition that being forced off gold would
be a debacle.66
Correspondence resumed on 18 August when Grenfell wrote Jack Morgan a
“Private and Confidential” letter. Grenfell expressed confidence in Harvey and
his handling of government ministers. Grenfell stressed that he had been
forthright in his talks with Tory ex-cabinet ministers, stipulating that any foreign
loan must have a “very comprehensive” plan behind it. This had been
transmitted, as anticipated, to MacDonald. The ball was now in his court. The
following day, Grenfell cabled Jack Morgan. MacDonald, Grenfell said, had
voiced his belief that if the government acted appropriately a loan would follow.
Accordingly, Grenfell appended a proposed cable to J.P. Morgan & Co. in New
York for Jack Morgan’s approval. The cable asked New York whether a five- or
ten-year borrowing might be possible if there was a “satisfactory
announcement” on the budget. The response from New York demonstrated that
caution ruled. Although the partners professed themselves “ready and anxious”
to assist the government in any planned operation, the cable cast doubt on the
feasibility of any operation until the government could show the market that it
Page 213
Page 213
was capable of putting its own financial house in order. A long-term loan was
dismissed as implausible, though if the government was prepared to wait until
after Labour Day such an operation would have a greater chance. Wall Street, the
Morgan partners signalled, was captivated by the gossip that the central bank
credits were nearly exhausted. Their counsel was that the best means forward for
the government was to take decisive action on the budget, let the market digest
this news, and wait for sentiment regarding British credit to become more
bullish. The partners also advised involving Paris, a theme that had been
sounded repeatedly in their missives as the crisis mounted and which New York
now pressed with greater urgency.67
While the New York partners had not pledged themselves to a short-term
credit, they had allowed that they were willing to consider what might be
possible. This non-committal sally was seized upon by the Bank of England and
communicated to the Cabinet on 21 August in the company of a statement from
the bank that its reserves to support sterling would be gone in four days.68 The
Cabinet was still grappling with retrenchment and had not agreed on the scope
and scale of budget cuts. Grenfell confided in Jack Morgan that the political
situation was becoming acute as the fissures within the Labour Party threatened
to split the government. As Cabinet struggled, J.P. Morgan & Co. were informed
on 22 August that Britain wanted a major loan next week. The Morgan partners
displayed their surprise at the sum Britain hoped to obtain – $500 million. So
“stupendous an amount” could only be obtained with the active cooperation of
the French. J.P. Morgan & Co. was not sure how much might be raised in New
York. They had been operating under the assumption, evidently a
misapprehension, that any operation would take place in the fall and for a much
lesser amount. Given the size of the contemplated loan, the Morgan partners
insisted that “prior Parliamentary action,” by which they meant approval of a
stringent balanced budget, must be obtained. Agreement among the party leaders
Page 214
Page 214
would not suffice. The partners warned that there were strong headwinds to be
overcome: doubts about Europe in the United States, the Wiggin Committee
report, the struggles of Germany, declines in the prices of the two German loans
and the Austrian loans, as well as misgivings regarding British handling of the
crisis. Reminding Grenfell that they had counselled against precipitate action
consistently over the past weeks, the partners concluded “that a certain amount
of time is necessary to educate our public and … any too urgent operation should
be avoided.”69
Confronted with an urgent plea for counsel, the partners gathered at
Bartow’s Long Island house on Sunday 23 August. Joined by Harrison for their
deliberations, they did not diverge from points that they had been making for
weeks: American investor sentiment was unpredictable and not prepared to
support blithely a British loan; the chances of success were uncertain; France
must participate if there was to be any hope; and the government must display a
commitment to a balanced budget. Telephoned by Whitney to Grenfell on 23
August and communicated to the Cabinet, the message was enough to satisfy
those Labour ministers who preferred the collapse of their government as an exit
from a political cul-de-sac.70
The entry into office of the National Government on 24 August, with
MacDonald and Snowden retaining their places as prime minister and chancellor
of the exchequer respectively, was welcomed by J.P. Morgan & Co. As Jack
Morgan told his son Harry Morgan, the formation of the new ministry “makes a
wonderful difference.”71 With American investor sentiment buoyant, the
Morgan partners were anxious to move to market as quickly as possible for a
British loan, capitalizing upon the favourable reaction to the change of
government. Conducted hurriedly, the negotiations were a matter of triangular
discussion among New York, Paris, and London. The structural advantage of the
Page 215
Page 215
House of Morgan, with Morgan Grenfell in London and Morgan & Cie. in Paris,
eased their conclusion. Morgan & Cie. played a notable, albeit understated, role.
With Dean Jay absent, Carter coordinated phone calls and cables from Lamont
and Whitney in New York, with Whigham in London, while communicating
with various parties in Paris. Among them were S.D. Waley and H.A. Siepmann
of the Bank of England, Leith-Ross from the Treasury, and on the French side
Robert Lacour-Gayet and Moret of the Bank of France, as well as Flandin.
Carter, well aware that his function was to act as a “liaison,” did so admirably,
reassuring his New York partners that the French were committed to aiding
Britain and were acting as expeditiously as possible, while concurrently keeping
the French informed.72 Harrison supported the effort to forge a deal, employing
Lacour-Gayet as an intermediary with Moret, leading Lamont to praise
Harrison’s role as “magnificent.”73 Reached on 28 August 1931 the loan took
the form of a $200 million one-year credit from J.P. Morgan & Co. and a $200
million loan from France, divided into two $100 million tranches, one tranche
furnished by a French banking syndicate, the other tranche a public issue of one-
year Treasury bills on the Paris market.74
Residual uneasiness was apparent among the Morgan partners. Lamont,
always sensitive to public opinion, voiced his uneasiness to Grenfell regarding
Labour criticisms that he thought threatened fragile American investor
confidence in Britain. Although Leffingwell told de Sanchez on 7 September
that England was “strong and sound and rich” and that he “firmly believed” in
Franco-American assistance, by mid-September his pessimism had returned with
a vengeance. The occasion for its blossoming was the drafting of a memorandum
by Parker Gilbert on 14 September that suggested pushing for a reform of British
war debts owed to the United States through a revision of the Mellon–Baldwin
agreement. Parker Gilbert argued that doing so would not only help relieve the
pressure on sterling but might produce a welcome alteration in British policy on
Page 216
Page 216
reparations. Since the Balfour Note Britain had supported Germany against
France, Parker Gilbert claimed, and in so doing had undermined the Dawes and
Young Plans. He told Lamont that Mellon would welcome a proposal in this
direction. Undoubtedly, Parker Gilbert, Lamont, and Leffingwell were aware that
the newly approved British government credit was being drawn down rapidly in
defence of sterling.75 Leffingwell’s reply was emphatic. He dismissed war debt
relief as likely to lead to “disaster.” If Lamont bemoaned the “silly pessimism”
engulfing Wall Street, Leffingwell was among these pessimists, and with reason,
for the moment of decision had come in London.76 The Bank of England
decided on 18 September that the gold standard must be sacrificed. A public
announcement was made on 20 September 1931.
*****
A glum Commercial and Financial Chronicle labelled sterling’s departure from
gold “one of the catastrophic events of the century, sure to be attended by a long
train of ill consequences.”77 For the Morgan partners, consequences were
apparent immediately. On 21 September the Associated Press published an
interview with Jack Morgan in London. Jack Morgan described sterling’s
departure from gold as “the second necessary stage in the work of the National
Government, the first being the balancing of the budget.”78 Chernow has argued
that Lamont, angered by the implication that leaving gold was a deliberate policy
decision, attacked Jack Morgan for failing to appreciate the damage the affair
had inflicted on J.P. Morgan & Co.’s prestige and reputation. According to
Chernow, Lamont’s letter of 25 September, which was co-signed by Charles
Steele, amounted to a “palace revolution” which “marks the moment when the
House of Morgan ceased operating as a family bank.”79 This goes too far.
Unquestionably there was rancour and recrimination, but the letter did not reach
Jack Morgan until sometime after 1 October by which date there had been cables
Page 217
Page 217
and phone calls that rendered the letter’s impact nugatory. It is not clear when
Jack Morgan received the letter, nor is it certain that he ever read it.
On 29–30 September 1931 there was an exchange between the Morgan
partners in New York and Jack Morgan. The long cable (eight pages) from New
York on 29 September was prompted by fears that London was contemplating
mobilizing British holdings of American securities, a notion that had been raised
prior to 18 September. The prospect frightened New York, who argued it would
spark greater flight from sterling while playing into the hands of the
“Socialists.” The Morgan partners believed that internal speculation against
sterling, driven by worries about Labour’s policies, had occasioned the
abandonment of gold. Policy blunders committed by the Bank of England and
the Treasury had exacerbated the problem, resulting in the frittering away of
hundreds of millions of dollars in futile defence of sterling. Why, the Morgan
partners asked, had London opted to peg sterling? Why was the bank rate not
raised to combat speculation?80 Looking ahead, it was critical to avoid any more
mistakes to allow confidence in British financial management to recuperate. The
key, the Morgan partners thought, was to restore budgetary and economic
equilibrium at home that would allow British industry to be competitive globally.
Advancing this counsel, the New York partners stressed that Jack Morgan and
the Morgan Grenfell partners should not infer any criticism of their actions. The
Morgan partners in New York insisted that they were aware that neither Jack
Morgan nor Morgan Grenfell could have “changed the course of past events. We
have from start to finish quite realized that the management of the credit lay
entirely outside your hands.” Jack Morgan’s continued presence in London “can
be of very great value in presenting a sound and detached judgment as to the
kind of policy towards which the British should now be directing themselves.”81
Page 218
Page 218
Jack Morgan responded on 30 September. He dismissed concerns about the
mobilization of securities as purely a theoretical exercise engaged in by the
Treasury. There was no reason to worry on this count. Reflecting on the choices
made by London during the crisis, he confessed, “I am not sure that the time has
yet come to discuss the details of or the reasons for past decisions. They were
taken with the best judgment available and have turned out in some glaring
instances to have been mistakes which everyone regrets.” As for restoring
confidence, Jack Morgan thought that the looming British general election would
be decisive. The City feared that until it was held on 27 October the government
would drift, making planning “impossible.” Typically, he encouraged his
partners, noting that their suggestions were welcome and that they should
continue to make them.82 The relief in New York was palpable: “We cannot
thank you and London Partners sufficiently for your tolerant reception of our
cable.”83 That day Lamont telephoned Jack Morgan to press the point home,
telling him that the letter of 25 September was not a criticism: “Mr. J.P.M. said
he had not as yet received the letter, but that he would understand it in exactly
that sense.”84
After the shockwaves passed, the partners concentrated on assisting the
Bank of England and the Treasury until the British general election resolved the
political situation. The pressing issue was managing sterling on the foreign
exchange markets. Spurred by a complaint from International General Electric in
New York that they were having trouble obtaining sterling, the New York
partners cabled Jack Morgan that this might be an opportunity for the Treasury
to gather dollars and francs which would allow it to “regain its independence in
this and Paris market because it would acquire the ammunition with which to set
up a future defence of the pound in those two markets.” A supplementary cable
asked Jack Morgan to push London to be open-minded about intervening in the
Page 219
Page 219
exchange markets and to give J.P. Morgan & Co. broad discretion to act secretly
on Treasury behalf.85 The Bank of England had already been contemplating
what might be done, aware of the dangers of failing to restore equilibrium in
foreign exchange markets, not the least of which was inflation. Sir Robert
Kindersley’s Foreign Exchange Committee, benefiting from Norman’s loss of
power within the bank, had taken initial steps.86 Jack Morgan, independent of his
New York partners, reached agreement with Kindersley on 3 October. J.P.
Morgan & Co. was authorized to act for either the Bank of England or the
Treasury “in connection with sterling exchange in the New York market, with
the idea of accumulating a sum of dollars for future use in maintaining an
orderly market.” Such action was to be at Morgan “discretion” in the forward
and spot markets. Kindersley would receive daily reports. The accumulated
dollar balances in the United States would be placed on deposit with the FRBNY
in credit of the Bank of England. J.P. Morgan & Co. would make payments in
London through Morgan Grenfell. The letter stipulated that the Treasury did not
want J.P. Morgan to buy below a rate of “about 3.90.” Jack Morgan agreed that
the bank would do this without commission for three months, when the issue
would be revisited.87 His New York partners protested plaintively, for they had
had not been kept abreast by Jack Morgan and had hoped for a broader mandate.
New York wanted to act in the Paris and London exchange markets as well, a
desire that Jack Morgan, backed by Cochran and Harry Morgan who were also
in London, quashed firmly.88
Vindication for Jack Morgan came with the general election results on 27
October. The National Government was returned with a commanding majority,
holding 554 of the 694 seats in Parliament. Baldwin’s Conservatives gained
more than 200 seats to boost Tory numbers to 470. Labour was obliterated,
falling to forty-six seats under Arthur Henderson. The Morgan Grenfell partners
Page 220
Page 220
were “dumbfounded.” Lavish thanks were bestowed on their New York partners
for their help “in all our troubles since 1914.” The response from New York a
day later was equally magnanimous, insisting that the “laurels” belonged to
Morgan Grenfell: “We have never been prouder than now of our association
with Great Britain nor prouder of the spirit and work of our London partners
these last few months.” In the same triumphal, ecstatic vein, Jack Morgan
despatched a private cable to his New York partners, lauding the common sense
of the British working man. Lamont was jubilant, expressing his delight at the
“tremendous step forward” at the demonstration “that Great Britain was right”
and “that our faith were justified.”89
While the election results eased the minds of the Morgan partners, there
was no ignoring that circumstances had changed. Sterling’s departure from gold
occasioned two developments in the United States: a massive outflow of gold in
the six weeks after 21 September, amounting to $730 million of which
approximately $350 million was for French account; driven by this, a rise in
rates in an effort to stem the outward flow of gold. FRBNY discount rates that
stood at 1.5 per cent on 26 September had reached 3.5 per cent on 17 October.90
Capital flight promoted, and was fuelled by, whispers that the United States
might also leave the gold standard as rumours swirled in London and in Paris
about the stability of leading American banks. Chase National, National City,
and Guaranty Trust were the subject of intense speculation as to their soundness,
rumblings that reached Stimson and Mills.91 A coordinated campaign was
orchestrated by Harrison, Lamont, and Jack Morgan to counter these rumours.
Harrison spoke directly with Norman and Harvey of the Bank of England and
separately with the BIS to reassure them the gossip was baseless. In London Jack
Morgan delegated Grenfell to meet with the heads of the major British banks to
quell doubts, which occurred on 3 October. Several days later Jack Morgan
Page 221
Page 221
journeyed to Paris with Cochran and, in the company of Dean Jay, met with
Barons Edouard and Robert de Rothschild. Jack Morgan told the French bankers
that rumours of vulnerability among the leading American banks were
unfounded.92
Jack Morgan’s trip to Paris had another purpose. Laval was scheduled to
visit Washington in October and the Morgan partners were determined that it be
successful. Jack Morgan met Laval shortly before the latter left for the United
States. Heartened by the news that Rist was accompanying Laval, Jack Morgan
suggested that Laval make a brief visit with the Morgan partners in New York.
Underlying this invitation were doubts about Hoover, the state of Franco-
American relations, and shifting Morgan appreciations about France. The
Morgan partners faulted Hoover for his handling of the moratorium vis-à-vis
France. They were unconvinced of his fitness as a diplomat. Leffingwell, in
characteristic prose, told Lamont in mid-October that “The President’s technique
of dominating men by exciting their terror and magnifying the disaster which he
intends to avert has pretty well undermined the morale of some leaders of
finance and politics at home.” He worried that Hoover would speak in similar
tones to Laval, guaranteeing disaster. Leffingwell suggested that Parker Gilbert
talk with Mills, Harrison, and Meyer to get “the leopard to change his spots,”
though he conceded that it was more likely that “the reign of terror will continue
until March 4, 1933.”93 Jack Morgan, in alliance with Robert Masson, the
director-general and guiding spirit of the French bank Crédit Lyonnais, proposed
through Walter Edge, the American ambassador, that Laval and Hoover issue a
joint communiqué pledging France and the United States would uphold the gold
standard.94
Underpinning these negative assessments of Hoover as diplomat lay a
conviction that the balance of power in Western Europe had shifted. Leffingwell
Page 222
Page 222
stressed by early September “the dominant political and financial position
France has re-won in Europe.”95 A month later, he declaimed,
France by accident or design has become the dominant power in Europe,
politically, economically, financially, and in a military sense … Such an
immense reversal of fortune in so short a period is bewildering. The English
haven’t recognized it. The Americans haven’t recognized it. The Germans
don’t want to recognize it. Even the French, far from recognizing it, are still
governed by a fear of invasion and a sense of inferiority acquired during
their bitter years when their best provinces were occupied by the Germans
and the later years when their currency and credit were fading away. If the
French will believe in themselves and act boldly, self-confidently, and
generously, as befits their immense power of today, all will soon be well.
But the possession of over-whelming wealth and power by a nation which
is ridden by fear and a sense of inferiority or inadequacy is likely to make
trouble.96
While Carter in Paris deemed Leffingwell’s analysis “exaggerated,” it was
seized upon by Lamont. Aware through Parker Gilbert that the Jack Morgan and
Masson suggestion for a joint declaration on the inviolability of the gold
standard had been rejected by the State Department as unwise and likely to
excite British resentment, Lamont sought to impress upon Hoover the necessity
of continued American engagement with France, arguing that only with active
French cooperation was it possible to settle European problems.97 A
memorandum drafted by Lamont on 20 October recommended how the president
should treat with Laval. Included were Leffingwell’s words concerning France’s
new-found hegemony. Lamont suggested Hoover should give Laval “complete
reassurance” that the United States intended to remain on gold because the
French had been shocked profoundly by the British decision to leave the gold
Page 223
Page 223
standard, suffering heavy financial losses as a consequence. Lamont stressed
French strength and French fragility; without delicate handling and a
thoroughgoing understanding of their situation, progress on issues such as war
debts, reparations, and the Polish Corridor would be impossible.98
Hoover was disinclined to take lessons in diplomacy from Lamont. The
sudden death of Morrow on 5 October had removed an intermediary between the
White House and J.P. Morgan & Co. Egan, sent by Lamont to present the
memorandum to Hoover, reported that, while Hoover read it carefully, the
president’s initial concurrence with what Lamont had written had given way
rapidly to a darker tone. Hoover told Egan that he had not invited Laval and that
the French government through the Bank of France and the French press had
connived to attack the American dollar. Hoover agreed that France controlled
future developments in Europe, but his own room to manoeuvre was
circumscribed tightly by Congress. Egan’s sally stressing the importance of
common cause on maintaining the gold standard was, discouragingly, rebuffed.
Overall, Egan concluded, “[h]e gave me the impression of a terribly tired and
terribly harassed man without much patience or tact or finesse.”99 Lippmann,
furnished by Lamont with both the memorandum and Egan’s report, had a
different reaction. Hoover, he told Lamont, following a conversation with
Stimson, had been furious at Lamont’s unsought advice but had now gotten over
his “wrath.”100
The Hoover–Laval talks, from 22 to 25 October, covered a range of topics,
from disarmament, to the Polish Corridor, to Franco-German relations, to war
debts and reparations. While Leffingwell thought that “real progress” was made
even if it was regrettable that the French had resorted to the “obsolete Young
Plan” and Lamont told Jack Morgan that “the feeling was excellent” between
Hoover and Laval, in truth little concrete followed.101 There remained sharp
Page 224
Page 224
divergences of opinion on disarmament, with Laval insisting on the continued
French need for security from a resurgent Germany, while alteration to the
territorial provisions of the Treaty of Versailles was also ruled out. Laval
asserted that, while he was open to reparations relief for Germany, it must be
undertaken through the Young Plan mechanism. For his part, Hoover was cagy,
agreeing to consider the possibility of war debt revision but with the proviso that
any movement in this direction was subject to the sanction of Congress, which
Hoover knew would not be forthcoming.102
The administration’s wariness at being identified explicitly with Wall Street
was demonstrated anew as Luther manoeuvred to obtain permanent concessions
on reparations via the Young Plan mechanism. Fraser cabled Harrison that the
BIS wanted him to suggest an American delegate to the Special Advisory
committee being constituted in response to the German request. This cable
crossed with a telegram from Moret to Harrison. Moret told Harrison that the
American delegate chosen needed to be someone familiar with Europe. Parker
Gilbert’s name had arisen in conversations between Dean Jay and Flandin.
Moret was enthusiastic about Parker Gilbert’s candidacy, knowing the latter’s
views on France and Germany. Harrison, who consulted with Stimson, Mellon,
and Meyer, was less taken. The conferees agreed that neither J.P. Morgan & Co.
nor National City should name the delegate. Following these conversations
Stimson briefed Hoover. The president was inclined to leave the decision to
Harrison. Hoover and Harrison discussed the matter directly, with Hoover
stipulating that no banker favouring cancellation of war debts should be
considered, while Harrison thought it advisable that it not be a New York banker.
Both provisos ruled out a J.P. Morgan & Co. partner. Parker Gilbert’s name was
dropped.103
As 1931 drew to a close, the interconnections between war debts, the
Hoover moratorium, and economic recovery were thrown into stark relief. Late
Page 225
Page 225
in November 1931 Morgan Grenfell cabled J.P. Morgan & Co. that Norman had
raised the prospect of Austria and Hungary defaulting on their public debt. The
reaction was horror in New York. Analysing matters, the Morgan partners
attributed this possibility to a rigid adherence to the gold standard and to the
imposition of severe foreign exchange controls that had choked off the supply of
exchange required to meet external obligations. In their view “the gold standard
is only a means to an end, the end of making payment in stable money.” The
contradiction of attempting to stay on gold while declining to meet contracted
obligations was apparent. After this missive, which drew a soothing reply from
Whigham in London, there followed a longer disquisition from New York.104
Its central tenet was straightforward: “These views all concentrate on a
single thought namely that all hope for the future depends upon the restoration of
faith in paper promises.” This faith has been “shaken to its foundations” by fear
of defaults. The “policy of a partial moratorium” was “almost equally
disastrous.” How should confidence be restored? According to the Morgan
partners, a series of palliative steps would go far. First, the harm occasioned by
the advent of the standstill agreements reached in August 1931 needed undoing,
for “[t]his was a blow at the basis of private international credit from which the
world will be long in recovering and all the Governments share the blame for
it.”105 The Wiggin Committee report had needlessly tied reparations and private
debts together, further exacerbating difficulties; while specific failings, such as
Baldwin’s myopia to French security concerns, and Hoover’s bungled handling
of his moratorium proposal, had alienated Paris to the detriment of international
cooperation. Skilful, patient diplomacy that took in account the critical role of
France would pay dividends. With respect to Germany, Austria, and Hungary,
J.P. Morgan & Co. was insistent that they must continue to service their loans,
the Dawes and Young Plan loans as well as the first and second Austrian and
Page 226
Page 226
Hungarian loans contracted through the assistance of the League of Nations.
They stressed that the Austrian and Hungarian default proposal was
“overwhelming in its importance,” for “[w]e cannot say with too much
emphasis or too often that to our minds the whole business of reconstructing the
world again depends upon maintaining what little faith men have left in the
promises of Governments made to private lenders.”106
Grenfell and Whigham, in concert with Norman and Sir Otto Niemeyer,
sought to assuage New York’s fears. They emphasized that, while they thought it
likely that Hungary would default in the coming months, there was a chance that
it would not do so on the League-sponsored loan, while the Austrian situation
was looking better. The League of Nations and the Bank of England were doing
what they could to stave off default. Depression was the chief culprit in fostering
tariff wars that had crippled these states. Niemeyer believed that a visceral dread
of inflation rooted in the memories of the postwar upheavals was impelling
Vienna and Budapest to avoid the social and political trauma associated with
those years, which explained their desire to cling to a “crippled and nominal
gold standard.” As for the standstill agreements and the Wiggin Report, London
dismissed them as “matters of history,” reassuring New York that through
continued application and hard work relief would come. Though the Morgan
partners were not wholly calmed by this cable, they were appeased, and while
they pressed their message of the inviolability of private credit throughout
December, the worry apparent early in the month receded.
In this exchange may be seen the Morgan conception of capitalist prosperity
– it rested ultimately on private trust, private obligations, and faith in contracts –
which had been strained to the breaking point by the events of 1931. The gold
standard was nothing more than the expression of this fundament. From the
Morgan perspective the standstill agreements and their ilk, far from fending off
Page 227
Page 227
crisis, had worsened it. If there was uncertainty at the opening of the year at 23
Wall Street as to whether capitalism was in crisis, by the end of 1931 this was no
longer in doubt. Equally, J.P. Morgan & Co. was not prepared to acquiesce
meekly in the destruction of a liberal, capitalist multilateral order. Ultimately, as
the cable hinted, the gold standard was dispensable if other means could be
found to uphold the sanctity of private contracts. Here may be seen the Morgan
apostasy on gold that was to lead the partners in 1933 to acknowledge that
remaining on gold was inimical to the greater task of saving capitalism from
depression.
*****
While the threat of Austrian and Hungarian default transfixed the Morgan
partners, in the United States the ongoing political struggle over the Hoover
moratorium was reaching a climax. Since the announcement of the moratorium
in June, congressional opposition, especially in the House of Representatives,
had been growing. Laval’s visit in October sparked rumours that a deal linking
together reparations and the cancellation of war debts either was in the offing or
had been struck. Many congressmen were suspicious of the administration and
disinclined to sanction passage of the moratorium. Among them was McFadden,
whose rhetoric against Hoover and the moratorium indulged in new paroxysms.
More damagingly, the House Ways and Means Committee, in approving the
moratorium, attached a declaration to its agreement forbidding the abrogation of
Europe’s war debts to the United States. The White House was unable to secure
revocation of this amendment. The House approved the moratorium on the
evening of 18 December with this rider.107 That day, Lamont testified to the
Senate Committee on Finance.
The Senate Finance Committee hearings on the Sale of Foreign Bonds or
Securities in the United States in December 1931 were instigated by Senator
Page 228
Page 228
Hiram Johnson of California. Johnson was not a member of the committee, but
he was an ardent opponent of Hoover and of J.P. Morgan & Co. Johnson was a
cantankerous progressive Republican. His contempt for “God,” as he derisively
labelled the president in 1929, devolved rapidly into assessments of Hoover as
“the prince of bunk artists” and a man who is “inept and untrustworthy and
without real capacity.”108 His views on J.P. Morgan & Co. conformed closely to
Money Trust certainties. For Johnson, 23 Wall Street ran American foreign
relations and had done so since the war. In cooperation with the “Hughes family
and the Root office” J.P. Morgan & Co. “govern us in our domestic as well as in
our international policies.” For Johnson, the Hoover moratorium, as he told his
sons, was an opportunity to publicize Morgan dominance. Johnson knew that
blocking passage of the moratorium in the Senate was impossible, but he could
prod his Senate colleagues to examine the role of bankers in American life. If the
aim was to discomfit J.P. Morgan & Co., then it failed, for Lamont’s testimony
on 18 December was practised and smooth, as he fielded questions from the
committee, including Johnson, who was afforded the privilege of participating in
the questioning, with ease. A distraught Felix Frankfurter raged to Herbert Feis,
the economic advisor to the State Department, “Those poor boobs on the Senate
Committee don’t know enough to examine Tom Lamont and Mitchell. Nothing
makes me sicker than that these incompetent leaders of finance should still
swagger around as though they were entitled to respect.”109 Frankfurter’s ire was
mirrored by Johnson, who emerged from the hearings more convinced than ever
that leading bankers were corrupt, despoiling the American people, and that his
Senate colleagues were terrified of confrontation. “Our people,” he wrote, “have
been soaked unmercifully for the profit of these international bankers.”110
The December 1931 hearings, uneventful as they seemed to the Morgan
partners, were a harbinger not just of future, more invasive examinations of the
Page 229
Page 229
bank and its practices but also of the revivifying effect the Depression was
having on Progressive courage while simultaneously battering the standing of
the Hoover administration and Wall Street. The confidence of the Morgan
partners had already been dented badly by the traumas of 1931, with the British
abandonment of gold inflicting the most grievous blow. J.P. Morgan & Co.
hoped that salvation might be found in a Franco-American entente to restore
order, but this was proving difficult to manifest, not least because of Hoover,
whose facility frustrated the Morgan partners. This was all the more worrying
after September 1931 when acceptance of the Depression was transformed into
acceptance of a depression that might threaten capitalism. While 1931 had been
dominated by international crises, the congressional debate over the moratorium
and the Senate hearings in December 1931 made it clear that international crises
could not be isolated from the domestic crisis.
1 Reynolds, CUL, COHC, pp. 150–51.
2 R.S. Sayers, The Bank of England 1891–1944, 3 vols., Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1976, vol. 2, p. 387.
3 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 30 November 1931, TML, CP, Box
19, Misc Priv Telegs 23 November to 22 March 1932.
4 Nathan Marcus, Austrian Reconstruction and the Collapse of Global
Finance, 1921–1931, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2018, pp.
298–334. Marcus emphasizes the contained nature of the CreditAnstalt crisis,
portraying it as distinct from the ensuing convulsions in Germany and Britain.
Following Marcus, see Flora Macher, “The Austrian Banking Crisis of 1931:
A Reassessment,” Financial History Review, vol. 25, no. 3 (2018), pp.
297–321. For a more traditional view, Iago Gil Aguado, “The Creditanstalt
Page 230
Page 230
Crisis of 1931 and the Failure of the Austro-German Customs Union Project,”
Historical Journal, vol. 44, no. 1 (2001), pp. 199–221.
5 Aurel Schubert, The Credit-Anstalt Crisis of 1931, Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1991, chap. 1 has the background.
6 Toniolo, Central Bank Cooperation, pp. 90–97 discusses the BIS and the
CreditAnstalt crisis, pp. 106–14.
7 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 13 May 1931, TML, CP, Box 19,
Morgan & Co. Priv. Misc. Telegs 29 April to June 1931.
8 Morgan Grenfell to J.P. Morgan & Co., 14 May 1931, Morgan Grenfell to
J.P. Morgan & Co., 15 May 1931, J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 16
May 1931, all TML, CP, Box 19, Morgan & Co. Priv. Misc. Telegs 29 April to
June 1931.
9 Stephen V.O. Clarke, C entral Bank Cooperation 1924–1931, New York:
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 1967, pp. 185–87; Toniolo, Central Bank
Cooperation, pp. 90–93.
10 Clay, Lord Norman, pp. 375–77; J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 26
May 1931, TML, CP, Box 19, Morgan & Co. Priv. Misc. Telegs 29 April to
June 1931.
11 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 27 May 1931, Morgan Grenfell to
J.P. Morgan & Co., 27 May 1931, J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 28
May 1931, all in TML, CP, Box 19, Morgan & Co. Priv. Misc. Telegs 29 April
to June 1931.
12 Bennett, Germany and the Diplomacy of the Financial Crisis, pp. 100–04.
Page 231
Page 231
13 Ibid., pp. 132–33; Joslin, Hoover off the Record, p. 88, traces the Hoover
moratorium to this conversation.
14 Wilson, American Business and Foreign Policy, pp. 132–40.
15 Dawes was the American ambassador at the Court of St. James, while
Gibson was the ambassador at Brussels.
16 Grenfell told Lamont that “the direct advances and acceptance of M&G &
Co. for Germany, Austria and Hungary are small as compared with those of
any other House of good position in London.” Grenfell to Lamont, 18 July
1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 111, Folder 23.
17 Olivier Accominitti, “International Banking and Transmission of the 1931
Financial Crisis,” London School of Economics and CEPR, November 2016,
table 3, p. 56. https://cepr.org/active/publications/discussion_papers/dp.php?
dpno=11651.
18 Lamont to Lippmann, 4 June 1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 104, Folder
28. The debate among economic historians on the issue of transmission of the
European financial crisis is discussed by Accominitti as well as in two papers
by Gary Richardson and Patrick Van Horn, “When the Music Stopped:
Transatlantic Contagion During the Financial Crisis of 1931,” NBER Working
Paper Series, No. 17437, 2011 and Richardson and Van Horn, “Intensified
Regulatory Scrutiny and Bank Distress in New York City During the Great
Depression,” Journal of Economic History, vol. 69, no. 2 (2009), pp. 446–65.
In their 2009 article Richardson and Van Horn argued that it was heightened
regulatory inspection that drove increased levels of New York City banking
failure in July and August 1931 prior to the British leaving gold. In 2011 they
suggested that New York money-centre banks were well equipped to deal with
the crises of the spring and summer of 1931. Transmission of the crisis was a
Page 232
Page 232
function of FRBNY action in September and October 1931 to raise interest
rates to check the outflow of gold.
19 Grenfell to J.P. Morgan & Co, 5 June 1931, TML, CP, Box 19, Morgan &
Co. Priv. Misc. Telegs 29 April to June 1931.
20 Morgan Grenfell to J.P. Morgan & Co., 4 June 1931, TML, CP, Box 19,
Morgan & Co. Priv. Misc. Telegs 29 April to June 1931.
21 Debt Suspension Matter memorandum, Lamont, 5 June 1931, BL, TWL,
Series II, Box 98/18. Lamont, The Ambassador, pp. 294–99, has excerpts
from Lamont’s conversations with Hoover on 5, 8, and 29 June.
22 Ibid.
23 Thomas Ferguson, “From Normalcy to New Deal,” International
Organization, vol. 38, no. 1 (1984), pp. 41–94. Ferguson attacked the
interpretation of this episode proffered by Wilson, in American Business and
Foreign Policy, pp. 132–40, on the grounds that Wilson had been gulled by a
fabricated Hoover diary entry.
24 This point has been made by Diane B. Kunz, The Battle for Britain’s Gold
Standard in 1931, London: Croom Helm, 1987, p. 55, and by Boyce, The
Great Interwar Crisis, pp. 312–13.
25 Stimson to Allen, 6 June 1939, LC, FLA, Box 2, correspondence 1939.
26 Lippmann to Lamont, 20 July 1932, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 105, Folder 1.
27 His premature death in 1938 is one reason why Parker Gilbert remains
largely unknown today. He left few papers, save for the material generated
while he was Agent-General. There is no biography and it is unlikely, given
the paucity of archival material, that there ever will be. A retired Rutgers
Page 233
Page 233
university economist, Eugene E. Agger, began work on a biography in the
1950s before illness forced him to abandon the project. Agger completed a
biographical entry of Parker Gilbert for the American Dictionary of National
Biography that never appeared in print. A copy is available in the Eugene E.
Agger papers, Rutgers Special Collections and University Archives, Eugene
E. Agger papers, Box 5, Folder 6 Manuscript. The “King of the World”
sobriquet is from William Randolph Burgess to Agger, 10 November 1955,
Rutgers Special Collections and University Archives, Eugene E. Agger
papers, Box 5, Folder 5 Correspondence 1955–56. The same letter remarks on
Parker Gilbert’s work ethic. For Norman’s efforts on Parker Gilbert’s behalf,
see Bank of England (hereafter BE), G1, 413, 10 January 1957; for his
putative appointment to the Federal Reserve, see Leffingwell to Lamont, 13
May 1933, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4, Folder 95 and Marriner S. Eccles to
Leffingwell, 24 May 1946, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 2, Folder 34.
28 Parker Gilbert made no secret of his view of Schacht. See the devastating
portrait that he sketched of Schacht in a cable from Berlin on 12 January 1930
that was circulated to McGarrah, Harrison, Young, Jack Morgan, Lamont,
Pierre Jay, and Leon Fraser. Parker Gilbert to FRBNY, 12 January 1930, TML,
JPM, Box 179, Folder 239.
29 Parker Gilbert to Morrow, 25 November 1929, AC, DM, Series I, Box 24,
Folder 12. The letter was written as Morrow was preparing for the London
Naval Conference of 1930.
30 George L. Harrison memorandum, 11 June 1931, CUL, GH, Box 21, Binder
45.
31 Jordan Schwartz, The Interregnum of Despair, Hoover, Congress and the
Depression, Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1970, pp. 78–80.
32 Memoranda detailing the Lamont–Hoover conversations of 19 and 20 June
1931 are in BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98/18.
Page 234
Page 234
33 Bennett, Germany and the Diplomacy of the Financial Crisis, pp. 169–78.
34 Memorandum of phone call between Lamont and Hoover, 29 June 1931,
BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98, Folder 18.
35 Leffingwell to de Sanchez, 2 July 1931, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 1/29.
36 American Bankers Association Journal, vol. 24, July 1931, pp. 17, 19.
37 Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 133, no. 3445, 4 July 1931, p. 1;
Commercial and Financial Chronicle vol. 133, no. 3446, 11 July 1931, p. 167.
38 Clarke, Central Bank Cooperation, pp. 189–93.
39 Harrison to Norman, 8 July 1931, CUL, GH, Box 9, Binder 20; Mills had
rung Harrison asking what might be done. As it happened Harrison was
meeting with the New York bankers at the time. Harrison memorandum, 16
July 1931, CUL, GH, Box 21, Binder 45.
40 McGarrah cabled Harrison on 9 July inquiring whether American banks
were seeking to take advantage of the central banks by withdrawing their
funds from Austria and Germany. Harrison, after consulting with Jack Morgan
and Owen Young, reassured McGarrah that this was not the case. McGarrah to
Harrison, 9 July 1931, Harrison to McGarrah, 10 July 1931, CUL, GH,
Columbia, Box 1, Binder 2.
41 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Grenfell, 10 July 1931, TML, CP, Box 19, Folder
Morgan & Co. Misc. Priv. Telegs 1 July to 28 October 1931.
42 Grenfell to J.P. Morgan & Co., 10 July 1931; Jack Morgan to Grenfell, 11
July 1931, both in TML, CP, Box 19, folder Morgan & Co. Misc. Priv. Telegs
1 July to 28 October 1931.
Page 235
Page 235
43 Grenfell to Lamont, 18 July 1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 111, Folder 23.
44 Parker Gilbert to Morrow, 20 July 1931, AC, DM, Series I, Box 24, Folder
12; Parker Gilbert to Morrow memo, 21 July 1931, AC, DM, Series I, Box 24,
Folder 12. This memo was sent to Mills. A copy is in LC, OLM, Box 9, 1931
Folder. For the continuing belief of Mills in Parker Gilbert as a counsellor, see
Mills to Parker Gilbert, 1 October 1931, LC, OM, Box 9, 1931 Folder.
45 Whigham to Grenfell, 14 July 1931, TML, CP, Box 19, Folder Morgan &
Co. Misc. Priv. Telegs 1 July to 28 October 1931.
46 Eugene Meyer interview, 10 June 1952, CUL, COHC, Eugene Meyer, pp.
592–97.
47 Wilson, American Business, p. 141, has treated this episode on its face,
namely, that Hoover and Stimson were furious with J.P. Morgan & Co. Boyce,
The Great Interwar Crisis, pp. 312–13, has suggested that not only did it
reveal the hostility between Hoover and the Morgan firm but crucially it
displayed a schism between Stimson and Hoover. Stimson, in Boyce’s view,
feared that Morgan action would ruin Franco-German concord, while Hoover
worried that Morgan action might promote Franco-German amity and drag
Washington into supporting Paris.
48 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Grenfell, 15 July 1931, TML, CP, Box 19, Folder
Morgan & Co. Misc. Priv. Telegs 1 July to 28 October 1931; J.P. Morgan &
Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 17 July 1931, TML, CP, Box 19, Folder Morgan &
Co. Misc. Priv. Telegs 1 July to 28 October 1931.
49 Stimson’s account of this episode may be found in Henry L. Stimson, 17
July 1931, Memorandum by the Secretary of State of Conversations with M.
Flandin and M. Jay, Foreign Relations of the United States, [FRUS], 1931,
General, Volume 1,
Page 236
Page 236
https://history.state.gov/historicaldocuments/frus1931v01/d229. Wilson, in
American Business, p. 141, argues that the Morgan partners bungled matters.
50 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan & Cie, 17 July 1931, BL, TWL, Series II,
Box 110, Folder 12; Lamont to Hoover, 18 July 1931, BL, TWL, Series II,
Box 98, Folder 19.
51 On American diplomacy, see Robert H. Ferrell, American Diplomacy in the
Great Depression: Hoover-Stimson Foreign Policy, 1929–1933, New Haven,
CT: Yale University Press 1957; Margot Louria, Triumph and Downfall:
America’s Pursuit of Peace and Prosperity, 1921–1933, Westport, CT:
Greenwood Press, 2001, pp. 172–79, has stressed the discord between
Stimson and Hoover in the summer of 1931.
52 Toniolo, Central Bank Co-operation, pp. 123–27. The Wiggin Report
formalized the standstill agreements which maintained existing short-term
credits to Germany.
53 Bennett, Germany and the Diplomacy of the Financial Crisis, pp. 274–77.
54 Lamont to Hoover, 27 July 1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98, Folder 19.
55 ODY to TWL, 3 August 1931, SLU, ODY, Box 28, Lamont, Thomas W.,
Folder 224. For examples, see Carter to Dean Jay, 26 June 1931, TML,
MBEP, Series 5, Carter, Bernard S.; Leffingwell to de Sanchez, 2 July 1931,
YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 1/29; Lamont to Hoover, 27 July 1931, BL, TWL,
Series II, Box 98, Folder 19; Lamont to Hoover, 27 July 1931, BL, TWL,
Series II, Box 98, Folder 19; Lamont to Grenfell, 31 July 1931, BL, TWL,
Series II, Box 111, Folder 23. Underlining in the original.
56 Rist to Leffingwell, 8 August 1931, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 7, Folder
145.
Page 237
Page 237
57 Cited in Bennett, Germany and the Diplomacy of the Financial Crisis,
p. 177.
58 A selected list includes Philip Williamson, “‘A Banker’s Ramp’? Financiers
and the British Political Crisis of August 1931,” English Historical Review,
vol. 49 (1984), pp. 770–806; and his National Crisis and National
Government, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1992, pp. 255–426,
which is the outstanding political account; Sayers, The Bank of England, vol.
2, pp. 387–415; Alec Cairncross and Barry Eichengreen, Sterling in Decline,
Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1983, pp. 27–110; Kunz, The Battle; Burk, Morgan
Grenfell, pp. 146–56.
59 Kunz, The Battle, p. 162; Burk, Morgan Grenfell, p. 146. For the argument
that 1931 demarcates an end to private banker involvement in interwar
international relations, see chap. 6 in Youssef Cassis and P.L. Cottrell eds.,
Private Banking in Europe: Rise, Retreat and Resurgence, Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 2015.
60 Morgan Grenfell to J.P. Morgan & Co., 23 July 1931, Morgan Grenfell to
J.P. Morgan & Co., 24 July 1931, Jack Morgan to Grenfell, 24 July 1931,
TML, JPM, Box 38A/33, Cables Received and Sent by J.P. Morgan. For the
decline in the Bank of England gold reserves, Sayers, Bank of England, vol. 3,
appendix 37, “Gold and Foreign Exchange holdings, 1925–1931,” p. 355.
61 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan, 29 July 1931, Jack Morgan to J.P.
Morgan & Co., 29 July 1931, J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan, 30 July
1931, TML, JPM, Box 38 A/34, Cables exchanged while in London and Paris
1931.
62 Clay, Lord Norman, p. 385.
Page 238
Page 238
63 Jack Morgan to Harry Morgan, 6 August 1931, TML, JPM, Box 38 A/34,
Cables exchanged while in London and Paris 1931; Jack Morgan to Lamont,
BL, TWL, Series II, Box 108, Folder 15.
64 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan, 8 August 1931, Jack Morgan to J.P.
Morgan & Co., 8 August 1931, TML, JPM, Box 38 A/34, Cables exchanged
while in London and Paris 1931.
65 Burk, Morgan Grenfell, p. 149.
66 Williamson, National Crisis, pp. 292–94.
67 Grenfell to Jack Morgan, 18 August 1931, Grenfell to Jack Morgan, 19
August 1931, J.P. Morgan & Co. to Grenfell, 21 August 1931, Grenfell to Jack
Morgan (private), 21 August 1931, TML, JPM, Box 38 A/34, Cables
exchanged while in London and Paris 1931.
68 Williamson, National Crisis, pp. 318–19.
69 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 22 August 1931, TML, JPM, Box
38 A/34, Cables exchanged while in London and Paris 1931.
70 Williamson, National Crisis, pp. 330–43; see Grenfell to Lamont, 27
August 1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 111, Folder 23.
71 Jack Morgan to Harry Morgan, 25 August 1931, TML, JPM, Box 38 A/34,
Cables exchanged while in London and Paris 1931.
72 Carter drafted daily memoranda on his activities for his partner Dean Jay,
who was holidaying at Cap d’Antibes. These memoranda are in the Dean Jay
papers at Knox College.
Page 239
Page 239
73 Lamont to Jack Morgan, 28 August 1931, TML, JPM, Box 38 A/35.1 –
Cable book 4 January 1926 to 31 December 1931. Lacour-Gayet was well
known in American financial circles, having served as the financial attaché at
the French embassy from 1924 to 1930. He was thought of highly by Harrison
and Leffingwell, though Grenfell took a dimmer view.
74 The $100 million Treasury bill issue placed in Paris did not occur until 10
September 1931.
75 Kunz, The Battle, p. 126, notes that as early as 7 September J.P. Morgan &
Co. had expressed alarm that 40 per cent of the credit had been drawn down.
76 Leffingwell to Parker Gilbert, 15 September 1931, YUL, RCL, Series I,
Box 3/63; Lamont to de Sanchez, 17 September 1931, BL, TWL, Series II,
Box 91, Folder 17.
77 Commercial and Financial Chronicle, vol. 133, no. 3457, 26 September
1931, p. 1961.
78 “Morgan holds Gold Decision A ‘Hopeful Event’; Calls Step a Stage
toward revival of Trade,” New York Times, 22 September 1931, p. 1.
79 Chernow, The House of Morgan, pp. 334–36. For the letter, Lamont to Jack
Morgan, 25 September 1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 108/15.
80 An exchange of letters between H.A. Siepmann of the Bank of England and
Francis Rodd on 20 October and 23 October 1931 makes it clear that the Bank
of England was alive to the criticism lodged against its handling of the sterling
crisis. DB, Morgan Grenfell papers, Box 50592324, Correspondence with
H.A. Siepmann. Rodd was at this juncture with the BIS. He joined Morgan
Grenfell in 1933.
Page 240
Page 240
81 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan and Morgan Grenfell, 29 September
1931, TML, JPM, Box 38 A/34, Cables exchanged while in London and Paris
1931.
82 Jack Morgan to J.P. Morgan & Co., 30 September 1931, TML, JPM, Box
38 A/34, Cables exchanged while in London and Paris 1931.
83 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan, 1 October 1931, TML, JPM, Box 38
A/34, Cables exchanged while in London and Paris 1931.
84 Lamont note, 1 October 1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 108/15. Lamont’s
unease about this episode lingered for months. See a memo to Jack Morgan of
30 March 1932, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 108, Folder 15.
85 Both cables, J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan, 2 October 1931, TML,
JPM, Box 38 A/34, Cables exchanged while in London and Paris 1931.
86 Sayers, The Bank of England, vol. 2, pp. 417–20.
87 Jack Morgan to Sir Robert Kindersley, 3 October 1931, TML, JPM, Box 44,
Folder 8.
88 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan and Thomas Cochran, 7 October 1931,
Jack Morgan, Thomas Cochran, and Harry Morgan to J.P. Morgan & Co., 19
October 1931, TML, JPM, Box 38 A/34, Cables exchanged while in London
and Paris 1931. J.P. Morgan & Co. proceeded as discussed.
89 ECG and London Partners to New York partners, 28 October 1931, J.P.
Morgan & Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 29 October 1931, TML, CP, Box 19,
Folder Morgan & Co. Misc. Priv. Telegs 1 July to 28 October 1931; Jack
Morgan to J.P. Morgan & Co., 28 October 1931, TML, JPM, Box 38 A/34,
Cables exchanged while in London and Paris 1931; Lamont to Jack Morgan,
30 October 1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 10/15.
Page 241
Page 241
90 For gold flows, see Federal Reserve Bulletin, November 1931, vol. 17, no.
11, p. 603 and p. 609, table “Gold Movements to and From United States,”
https://fraser.stlouisfed.org/title/federal-reserve-bulletin-62/november-1931-
20720. Of this $730 million, $415 million was not exported but earmarked for
the account of foreign central banks held in the FRBNY. On interest rate
increases, Meltzer, A History of the Federal Reserve, p. 346, table 5.14.
91 Dawes to Stimson, 8 October 1931, CUL, GH, Box 50, Mills, Ogden.
92 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Jack Morgan, 2 October 1931, TML, JPM, Box 38
A/34, Cables exchanged while in London and Paris 1931; Harrison record of
phone conversation with Norman and Harvey, 2 October 1931 HH, HHPL,
FRBNY papers, Box 3/3115.2, Norman, Montagu 1931; Harrison to BIS on 2
October 1931, CUL, Harrison papers, Box 1, Binder 2; Jack Morgan to J.P.
Morgan & Co., 3 October 1931, TML, JPM, Box 38 A/34, Cables exchanged
while in London and Paris 1931; J.P. Morgan & Co to Jack Morgan 8 October
1931, Jack Morgan to J.P. Morgan & Co., 8 October 1931, TML, JPM, Box 38
A/34, Cables exchanged while in London and Paris 1931.
93 Leffingwell to Lamont, 15 October 1931, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4,
Folder 95.
94 Walter Edge to Stimson, 19 October 1931, HHPL, HH, Subject Files, Box
186, Financial Matters Gold and Silver Correspondence August to December
1931.
95 Leffingwell to De Sanchez, 7 September 1931, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box
1/29.
96 Leffingwell to De Sanchez, 2 October 1931, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 1/29.
97 Elliot A. Rosen, Hoover, Roosevelt and the Brains Trust, New York:
Columbia University Press, 1977, pp. 81–84, suggests that the discussions on
Page 242
Page 242
19 October set the template for the American posture in discussions on
international economic relations through the Lausanne Conference in the
summer of 1932.
98 Lamont to Hoover, 20 October 1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98/19.
99 Egan to Lamont, 21 October 1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98/19. The
Egan visit is not in the Hoover calendar. It took place on either 20 or 21
October.
100 Lamont to Lippmann, 22 October 1931, Lippmann to Lamont, 23 October
1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 104, Folder 29.
101 Leffingwell to de Sanchez, 28 October 1931, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box
1/29; Lamont to Jack 30 October 1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 10/15.
102 On the talks, see Costigliola, Awkward Dominion, pp. 246–48; Henry
Blumenthal, Illusion and Reality in Franco-American Diplomacy 1914–1945,
Baton Rouge, LA: Louisiana State University Press, 1986, pp. 157–58; Rosen,
Hoover, Roosevelt, pp. 84–86.
103 Walter W. Stewart was named the American delegate. Stewart was an
economist who had advised Coolidge and Hoover along with working with
the Bank of England from 1928 to 1930. For the Special Advisory Committee
(also known as the Beneduce Committee after its Italian chair), Toniolo,
Central Bank Cooperation, pp. 127–31; Moret to Harrison, 18 November
1931, CUL, GH, Box 14, Binder 29; for conversations with Stimson, Mellon,
Meyer, and Hoover, 18 and 19 November 1931, CUL, GH, Box 21, Binder 45.
104 Morgan Grenfell to J.P. Morgan & Co., 27 November 1931, J.P. Morgan &
Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 28 November 1931, Whigham to J.P. Morgan & Co.,
28 November 1931, all TML, CP, Box 19, Misc Priv Telegs 23 November
1931 to 22 March 1932.
Page 243
Page 243
105 The First Standstill agreement was agreed on 19 August 1931. It preserved
outstanding acceptances, deposits, and cash advances made by foreign
bankers, chief among them American, British, and French institutions, to
Germany. See Sayers, The Bank of England, vol. 2, pp. 503–12.
106 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 30 November 1931, TML, CP, Box
19, Misc Priv Telegs 23 November 1931 to 22 March 1932.
107 This paragraph follows the discussion in Schwarz, The Interregnum, pp.
81–87.
108 Hiram Johnson to Jack and Archibald Johnson Jr. (his sons), 26 October
1929; Hiram Johnson to Jack Johnson, 23 November 1929, Hiram Johnson to
his sons, 11 December 1932, all in volume 5 of Robert E. Burk, ed., The Diary
Letters of Hiram Johnson, 1917–1945, 7 vols., New York: Garland
Publishing, 1983.
109 Felix Frankfurter to Herbert Feis, 19 December 1931, LC, Herbert Feis
papers, General Correspondence Series, Box 16, Frankfurter, Felix.
110 Johnson’s views may be traced in Burk, The Diary Letters, to his sons, all
in volume 5, on 12 December, 19 December, 27 December 1931, and 9
January 1932. The quotation is from his letter of 9 January 1932.
Page 244
Page 244
5
“Witchcraft”: J.P. Morgan & Co.,
Hoover, and the Depression in the
United States, 1930–1933
◈
Every year that Herbert Hoover was president the American economy
deteriorated. The year 1930 was bleaker than 1929, 1931 more dire than 1930,
1932 grimmer still. By November 1932, when Hoover lost the presidential
election to Roosevelt, his political failure was identified indelibly with American
economic failure. The long interregnum before Roosevelt took office, lasting
until March 1933, prolonged the agony. Millions of Americans were
unemployed or underemployed, their lives uprooted, their worlds precarious.
Suffering abounded. What had happened? Writing in January 1932 Jack Morgan
confessed that “I find it most difficult to explain” the Depression.1 He was not
alone. A mordant American Banking Association editorial entitled “Witchcraft”
captured the spirit:
The conclusion is unmistakeable that the depression either was caused or is
being prolonged by the shortage of gold, the over-production of everything,
the stock market, interallied debts, democracy, the under-consumption of
everything, the maldistribution of gold, high wages, low wages,
Page 245
Page 245
governmental extravagance, timid factory owners, distribution, the
railroads, the business cycle, thrifty bank depositors, lack of leadership in
high places, concentration of power in high places, silver, the bankers,
prohibition, cost of the World War, preparations for the next, the
Republican party, the Democratic party, inflation, technological
unemployment, deflation, Bolshevism, Fascism, Americanism, reparations,
the Federal Reserve System trying to do too much, France, the Reserve
System not doing anything, Germany, high tariff, England, low tariff,
Mussolini, President Hoover, the failure of the American Government to
appropriate several billions and spend them, and vice versa.2
Contemporaries, not least of whom was Hoover, were convinced that
bankers were among the most blameworthy, a belief that suggests why the ABA
was eager to advance a multitude of causes in “Witchcraft.” Leaving office,
Hoover assailed bankers for sabotaging his efforts, branding them intransigent
liars “without ability and without character.”3 Father Coughlin railed against the
culpability of “international bankers” condemning Hoover as the plaything of
Wall Street.4 A leading figure in the American Federation of Labour charged
early in 1933 that bankers had reduced industry to “servitude” with their
“control of credit” prohibiting industry from introducing palliative measures.
Senator Elbert Thomas of Oklahoma, rueing that Congress was “impotent” and
the Hoover administration feckless, confessed in a letter to selected bankers that
“I am convinced that our troubles are mainly financial, that you and your
associates, control our fiscal policies and legislation, and knowing of your
power, I am appealing to you to divert your abilities to the task of providing a
program for the consideration of the Congress.”5 Such claims, melding the
helplessness of politicians with the omnipotence of the bankers, persisted,
hinting at wilder formulations that the Depression was engineered.6 Randolph
Page 246
Page 246
Burgess, speaking to the California Bankers Association in 1939, told his
audience, “[w]hen nearby Hollywood is writing its scenarios the natural thing is
to make the villain of the piece a banker, and if he is to be a particularly
villainous villain he should be a New York banker.”7 Though Burgess did not
say it, the most nefarious New York banker for many Americans in the
Depression decade was a J.P. Morgan & Co. partner.
If economists and historians have been chary of blaming the Depression
upon bankers, this has not prevented scholarly judgements that bankers
“abdicated leadership,” favouring self-interest at the expense of the communal
good. Their collective cowardice worsened the Depression, a verdict that has
found support in utterances such as that of Agnes Meyer, the well-informed wife
of Eugene Meyer, who recorded in her diary, “Certainly the New York bankers
have proved that they are no heroes. The wealthy classes as I have learned to
know them through the depression are not much to be admired. They are
overcome by fear and selfishness.” Months later, she expressed similar views
more harshly: “If the general public realized the ignorance, smallness, futility
and greed of the average N.Y. banker, I think they would certainly hang a few of
them, beginning I hope with Charlie Mitchell.”8
The story of bankers and the Depression, of J.P. Morgan & Co. and the
Depression, is a complex one. The connections among banking failures, bank
weaknesses, and the deepening of crisis remain contested. These years, with
their manifold complexities, render explanation challenging, for exposition
threatens to rob them of their chaotic dynamism. This is a long chapter in which
the wash of crisis lapped over the United States and J.P. Morgan & Co. It begins
with the effect of the Depression on the Morgan bank, arguing that the
devastating effect of the Depression on the Corner coloured the response to
crisis. Evidence of this follows, as the chapter then considers the travails of
Page 247
Page 247
American banking and the Morgan effort to assist private firms in trouble in
1930–31, a short-lived endeavour abandoned as a consequence of Morgan
financial weakness. The railroads in particular were a source of worry for
American banks, J.P. Morgan & Co., and the Hoover administration, a theme
that the chapter takes up next. As railroad relief was being discussed,
Leffingwell became convinced that deflation was emerging as an existential
threat to capitalism. Combatting deflation became the Morgan mantra, a stance
that led the Morgan partners and the Hoover administration into conflict in 1932.
For this reason, Morgan disenchantment with Hoover meant that Roosevelt’s
victory in November 1932 did not alarm the Corner. The last section explores the
implosion of the American economy in the opening months of 1933, Morgan
surprise, and the growing isolation of the Morgan partners from both the
outgoing and incoming presidents even as they embraced the view that the gold
standard must be discarded to allow capitalism to overcome crisis. Throughout,
the argument is made that Morgan policy confronting the Depression was
activist, if not perhaps in the ways in which the literature has understood it to be.
*****
Early in January 1932 Jack Morgan wrote his friend the Marquess of Linlithgow.
Business, he confided, was dreadful. J.P. Morgan & Co. was “having as bad a
time here as anyone.”9 Understanding the degeneration of the Morgan balance
sheet in these years is critical to appreciating how and why the partners acted as
they did. Selected measures of the bank’s financial performance between 1929
and March 1933 are summarized in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1 J.P. Morgan & Co. consolidated statement of condition, in millions of
dollars
Page 248
Page 248
Note. The consolidated statement of condition may be found in Appendix 1. The
figures include results from J.P. Morgan & Co. and Drexel & Co. but do not
include either Morgan Grenfell or Morgan & Cie. They were entered into
evidence by the Pecora Committee. The last column, that of 31 March 1933, was
published by the Associated Press and printed in the New York Times on 10 June
1933, p. 7. It is not included in Appendix 1, but is included in Appendix 2. With
regard to the row “Loan Time & Demand” I have combined two originally
separate categories.
Two periods of extraordinary stress stand out: 1931 and the opening quarter
of 1933. The contraction in 1930 in net worth of almost $27 million was a blow,
though at the end of the year net worth was marginally greater than on 31
December 1928 when it had stood at $91 million. Disquiet among the partners at
1930’s results was understandable, but the year was not entirely negative –
assets, deposits, and loans outstanding had risen. These rays of sunshine
brightened by the early months of 1931 were marked, as had been the case a year
earlier, by rallies on the stock market and in bond prices. The Dow Jones index,
which had been fluctuating between 165 and 170 in December 1930, moved
upward, stabilizing around 185 where it remained until late March 1931. As
interest rates declined, bonds rose to levels that had not been attained since the
Crash.10
The catastrophe came after. If the 1931 calendar year portrait is black –
Morgan assets plummeted by more than $271 million, deposits were shorn by
more than $184 million, while partnership net worth fell almost $40 million –
these declines obscure the concentrated nature of the impact in the last quarter of
Page 249
Page 249
the year. An internal memorandum written by Leffingwell attributed the fall in
the loans and deposits of New York banks to the German standstill agreement of
1931 and the large-scale withdrawals by “French and other foreign deposits”
consequent upon sterling leaving gold.11 Certainly, the firm was not unique in
seeing its deposits shrink: deposits in New York City banks fell more than 30 per
cent between June 1930 and June 1932, while the pre-eminent rival to J.P.
Morgan & Co. in the private banking world, Kuhn, Loeb & Co., saw its deposits
plummet from $88.5 million in 1929 to $15.2 million in 1932.12 Yet J.P. Morgan
& Co. had a disproportionately high level of foreign deposits, both governmental
and individual. The flood of foreign withdrawals in September and October
1931, principally by the governments of Belgium, Britain, and France, struck
hard. To meet the outflow the Morgan partners liquidated approximately $150
million of securities, consisting of $80 million of US government securities and
$70 million of state and municipal bonds. The balance was made up through
reductions of corporate stocks and bonds and cash.13 It was a hammer blow,
crumpling the Morgan balance sheet with devastating force.
If deposit haemorrhaging reduced the room for manoeuvre that J.P. Morgan
& Co. enjoyed, capital impairment was a further constraint. For the private
banks, what has been deemed the “capital crunch” was acute. J.P. Morgan &
Co.’s capital was partner net worth. Banks such as National City or Chase could
have recourse to the markets to raise capital even if this was impractical in the
Depression. Partnerships such as J.P. Morgan & Co. were dependent upon the
financial wherewithal of their partners. National City or Chase could cut
dividends when besieged; for J.P. Morgan & Co. the burden in reduced earnings
fell directly on the partners. Traditionally private banks could improve their
capital position by admitting new partners. The one Morgan partner admitted
after 1929 – Parker Gilbert in 1931 – did not bolster net worth, for he
contributed no capital when he entered the firm.14
Page 250
Page 250
The effects of the crisis of 1931 are apparent: the Morgan partners shifted
assets to the safest category that they knew, US government securities, which
more than doubled in the year from $110 million to $224 million. It was a choice
that New York banks adopted widely as they sought refuge in greater liquidity.
The nearly complete disappearance of state and municipal, in favour of federal,
bonds from the Morgan portfolio attests that the latter two categories were not
viewed as offering the same quality harbour. Almost as striking was the sharp
drop in loans outstanding. If the Morgan firm had, in the course of 1930,
retreated from making call loans in keeping with a general shift away from this
type of loan by the Street, this had not been true of time and demand loans.15
The latter, on 2 January 1932, stood at a level higher than two years earlier.
Throughout 1932 J.P. Morgan & Co. whittled their loan portfolio, reducing it by
nearly $60 million. Stabilization was the Morgan imperative in 1932. The chaos
of the opening quarter of 1933 struck when the partners thought J.P. Morgan &
Co. well-fortified. The slump in 1933, though not quite so sharp as 1931, was
startling: in a span of three months assets fell by 25 per cent, deposits dropped
30 per cent, and net worth fell 16 per cent. Prestige, it transpired, was not
prophylactic.
Investment banking was responsible for much of the pain. The industry felt
the brunt of the Depression beginning in the summer of 1931. Membership in the
Investment Bankers Association, which had stood at 690 in 1928, fell to 378 in
1933.16 Total American lending abroad, which had powered earnings for many
investment banks in the second half of the 1920s, plunged after a modest
rebound in 1930. Repayment of existing loans outpaced new foreign issues in
the United States between 1931 and 1933.17 For J.P. Morgan & Co., the last
long-term Morgan-led foreign bond issue was a $22.8 million bond placement
for the Electric Power Co. of Taiwan in June 1931. After the short-term British
government credit operation of August/September 1931, the firm floated no
Page 251
Page 251
foreign loans to March 1933. Precisely how much the contraction in foreign
lending reduced Morgan revenues is unknown, but there is little doubt that the
cessation of fees and commissions hurt.
If foreign borrowing withered, at home matters were gaunt. Corporate
borrowing dwindled. New domestic corporate security issues (including bonds
and stocks) in the United States slid from more than $8 billion in 1929 to $1.55
billion in 1931 and $325 million in 1932, before reaching the paltry total of $161
million in 1933.18 Morgan loans outstanding, which were not all corporate,
contracted sharply in 1932. The Morgan partners embarked upon a searching
examination. In July 1931 Dean Jay told his partner Bernard S. Carter that
Morgan & Cie. was battening down the hatches, combing through accounts,
sifting through the loan book, reducing some commercial lines of credit, and on
some private loans asking for more collateral.19 New York undertook a similar
process. The commercial paper and banker’s acceptances markets suffered. In
May 1932 J.P. Morgan & Co. cabled Morgan Grenfell that they wanted to reduce
their existing acceptances of cotton bills, which “constitute more than half of our
present outstanding acceptances,” from $6.75 million to $4 million. This desire
was driven, the cable acknowledged, by the “natural shrinkage” of the market,
but New York was also anxious to rein in its acceptances.20 This made sense
given the trajectory of the acceptance market, which had peaked in December
1929, declined moderately until May 1931, and thereafter tumbled dramatically,
reaching a level in August 1932 that was only 40 per cent of the 1929 figure.21
Investment banking was not the only culprit. The fall in the volume of
NYSE transactions exacted a toll. The Morgan firm had seats on the NYSE
through which they earned commissions on orders for clients. Share volume on
the NYSE was, by 1932, at roughly one-third the level of 1929.22 Similarly, the
ending of heavy speculation volumes on the Exchange in 1929–30 drove a
Page 252
Page 252
marked reduction in Morgan call loans. The rich margins extant before the stock
market crash in 1929 disappeared. As for the other lines of Morgan banking
business, such as foreign exchange, the picture is murky. With trade declining
and Americans remaining at home rather than voyaging abroad, the earnings
from foreign exchange transactions diminished. The foreign exchange
equalization account agreed to by Jack Morgan in October 1931 with the British
Treasury constituted the majority of foreign exchange holdings shown on the
bank’s books. At the beginning of 1931 J.P. Morgan & Co. had slightly more
than $40 million of foreign exchange on its books, dropping to $37.5 million in
January 1932 before a sharp fall to $18.6 million at the year’s end.23
To round out the tale of woe, these years saw a spike in bad loans and a
buttressing of reserves. Through the 1930s a number of loans, such as those
made to Charles Mitchell, or latterly to the Van Sweringen brothers, proved, in
the Morgan parlance “slow.” A $500,000 loan made to Richard Whitney in the
summer of 1931 is a case in point; the loan, originally an unsecured time loan,
was converted to a demand loan, and at the end of 1934 J.P. Morgan & Co. set
up a reserve of $200,000 on its books against the loan, recognizing its
delinquency. Subsequently in 1937 the loan was reclassified as an obligation of
Richard Whitney & Co. When this firm failed in 1938, a balance of $474,000
remained outstanding on the principal.24 Reserves had to be held to cover such
defaults. Whitney told the Pecora hearings that at the end of 1932 the bank’s
reserves against bad loans stood at $18 million, remarking that Morgan policy
was “not to fool ourselves about the goodness of our assets” given that “money
and reputation” was at stake.25
Before 1931 there does not appear to have been substantive discussion
about cost-cutting, strengthening the argument that the Morgan partners did not
foresee a protracted Depression. Parker Gilbert’s admission to the partnership in
Page 253
Page 253
January 1931 validates this point, for when he joined J.P. Morgan & Co. his
accession increased expenditures in the short term. Partner salaries in 1932 and
1933 were fixed at $150,000 for Jack Morgan and $100,000 for the other
partners.26 Drawings by partners were reduced in 1933 by 50 per cent. Evidence
that the junior partners were feeling the strain in these years was furnished later
by the Pecora investigation, which noted that a number of the partners were in
debt to the firm. Late in September 1931, Jack Morgan agreed with his son
Junius that cost-cutting must take place.27 Discretionary expenditures were
scrutinized carefully. Contributions to organizations as diverse as the National
Bureau of Economic Research and the International Chamber of Commerce
were reduced. The latter, fearing the effect an open acknowledgement that J.P.
Morgan & Co. was reducing its dues would have upon other contributors,
pleaded with Lamont to maintain the level at $5,000 per year. Reluctantly,
Lamont agreed to furnish $4,000.28 Staff reductions were insignificant, with the
bank maintaining employment levels of 400–50 employees throughout the early
1930s, though salaries were cut by 10–20 per cent in 1933.29
When Roosevelt entered office in March 1933, J.P. Morgan & Co. was
much diminished. Measured by assets, deposits, and net worth, the bank was less
than half the size it had been when 1931 dawned. The Morgan partners had not
fled the temple as Roosevelt’s famous inaugural address charged; it had
collapsed with them in it.
*****
When Lamont spoke to the Academy of Political Science on 14 November 1930,
this bleak future was undreamt. The day that Lamont delivered his speech
marked a step on the road to March 1933, for that day Caldwell and Company, a
Nashville bank, failed. A month later, the Bank of the United States, based in
New York City, became insolvent (see Figure 5.1). When the Bank of the United
Page 254
Page 254
States collapsed, its suspension was the largest of any commercial bank in
American history. The insolvencies were evidence of the distress within the
banking sector. In 1929, 629 commercial banks had failed in the United States.
The months of November and December 1930 saw 608 banks close their doors.
Another 198 foundered in January 1931.30 In their Monetary History, Friedman
and Schwartz argued that four banking crises, the first of which occurred
between October 1930 and January 1931, were an important factor in spreading
the contagion of the Depression through their constricting effect on the money
supply.31 Debate has swirled since.32 Insofar as J.P. Morgan & Co.’s role in the
collapse of the Bank of the United States is concerned, Friedman asserted
subsequently that Morgan anti-Semitism was decisive. J.P. Morgan & Co.,
animated by anti-Semitism, prodded the New York Clearing House to reject
rescuing the Bank of the United States, thus conflating an explanation for the
Depression – contagion – with anti-Semitism.33
Figure 5.1 Depositors outside a Bank of the United States branch, 1930.
Bettmann/Getty Images.
Page 255
Page 255
Friedman did not have the benefit of access to the Morgan archives when he
made this claim. There is no doubt that J.P. Morgan & Co.’s culture was anti-
Semitic. In a cable to Morgan Grenfell on 12 December 1930 disclosing the
failure of the Bank of the United States, the partners remarked, “its clientele
consisted largely of the lesser Hebrew element … its 450,000 depositors will
eventually suffer some loss … But we feel that the situation is less serious
financially than if the Bank had a clientele of major importance.”34 Jack
Morgan’s anti-Semitism was so marked that he commented in 1933 to a British
correspondent that he considered Hitler’s attitude toward Jews “wholesome.”35
However, Morgan anti-Semitism did not dictate the Morgan attitude vis-à-vis the
Bank of the United States. J.P. Morgan & Co. had, and continued to have, cordial
business relations with some Jewish New York banks, in particular Kuhn, Loeb
& Co, the second most important private banking house on the Street.36 This
extended to the Rothschilds. When Baron Edouard de Rothschild asked in 1932
if a place could be found for his only son, Guy de Rothschild, with J.P. Morgan
& Co. in the New York office, the Morgan reply was positive despite “the racial
objection,” because the firm valued the importance of the connection.37 Writing
Grenfell in December 1934 Lamont recounted the visit of a British emissary
from Oswald Mosley’s Fascist Party of Great Britain who had come to solicit
funds from Henry Ford and J.P. Morgan & Co. Lamont was flabbergasted at this
“naïve suggestion,” telling his visitor “that we had no anti-Jewish complex and
were on excellent terms with all the high class Jewish banking houses.”38 If this
riposte was inaccurate in its denial of Morgan anti-Semitism, it embodied a
reality: the Morgan partners differentiated among the Jewish banks on the same
basis as they did with non-Jewish banks. What mattered was the standing of the
institution in Morgan eyes.
Page 256
Page 256
Following the failure of the Bank of the United States, J.P. Morgan & Co.
informed Morgan Grenfell that, contrary to whispers in the City of London,
Goldman, Sachs, a Jewish firm, was sound. Thomas S. Lamont attributed these
rumblings to “the tremendous deprecation” in the price of the securities that
Goldman, Sachs had floated. He told Grenfell that private acceptances, save for
J.P. Morgan & Co.’s, had been languishing. Buyers were skittish, unfairly but
understandably. To strengthen the market, J.P. Morgan & Co. purchased bills for
Morgan Grenfell’s account of: Kidder, Peabody; Goldman, Sachs; J. Henry
Schroder Banking Corporation; Brown Brothers; Heidelbach, Ickelheimer &
Co.; Manufacturers Trust Co.; and Public National Bank & Trust Company.39 Of
these seven firms, four – Goldman, Heidelbach, Manufacturers, and Public
National – were Jewish. If anti-Semitism was the determinant factor colouring
Morgan praxis, as Friedman suggests, the Morgan partners should have let
weakened Jewish houses struggle to place their bills. Instead J.P. Morgan & Co.
bought their obligations.
Nor is Friedman correct to interpret J.P. Morgan & Co. as controlling the
New York Clearing House. This charge, bruited since the Pujo hearings,
resurfaced periodically. Sustenance for it may be drawn from Lamont’s remark
in a 1934 memorandum to his partners, “The adherence and loyalty of the
Clearing House banks undoubtedly grew in these years.”40 Against this, J.P.
Morgan & Co. was not a member of the Clearing House, a point which the
discussion concerning the failure of the Bank of the United States has neglected.
Nineteen banks belonged to the Clearing House when the decision was made not
to extend assistance to the Bank of the United States.41 Four were associated
with J.P. Morgan & Co. – Bankers Trust, Guaranty Trust, First National Bank of
New York, and New York Trust. Morgan partners were consulted during the
Clearing House deliberations. Leffingwell attended at least two meetings
Page 257
Page 257
concerning the Bank of the United States in mid-November and Lamont was
present at the decisive meeting of the Clearing House in December that rejected
the plea of Joseph A. Broderick, the New York State Superintendent of Banks, to
support the Bank of the United States. As Friedman and Schwartz have admitted,
it was Lamont who made it possible for Broderick to be heard.42 The Morgan
partners were listened to, as the Broderick episode showed, but they did not have
authority over the Clearing House. Reynolds, the president of the Clearing
House, was “adamant” in his reminiscences: the Clearing House declined to
support the Bank of the United States because of uncertainty regarding the scale
of the latter’s liabilities.43
There remains the broader question of J.P. Morgan & Co., contagion, and
the progress of the Depression. Lamont, writing to Dawes in January 1933,
framed Morgan policy in heroic terms: “We have had to run a day and night
hospital service for the financially wounded and dying and have had to be quite
ruthless regardless of personal interests, in hope some times of salvaging
somewhat situations that nobody else apparently could handle but ourselves.”44
While the image is striking – financial triage conducted selflessly – it is
overblown. A cold-eyed story emerges from the archives. In keeping with their
stance in October and November 1929, when Morgan efforts were directed at
minimizing damage arising from the stock market crash, the Morgan partners did
not believe that it was their responsibility to rescue the financial system. The
Federal Reserve existed to undertake that duty. Fanciful notions of trying to
recreate Pierpont Morgan in 1907 were chimeras. As Leffingwell put it years
later:
For J.P.M. 2nd and his partners to have attempted to stem the tide of
deflation let loose by the limitless power of the Federal Reserve System
would have been suicide for them, and a suicide in which they would have
Page 258
Page 258
pulled down with them all banks and bankers, who might, from loyalty,
have followed such insane leadership.45
Insanity was not the stock and trade of sober merchant bankers, nor was the
prospect of a financial Charge of the Light Brigade appealing.
Certainly, the partners were disturbed as suspensions rattled Wall Street late
in 1930. At the year’s end Thomas S. Lamont told Grenfell that “the closings
have had a bad effect upon the whole community. They have added an element
of uncertainty to the situation as viewed by the average man in the street and
they have hurt his business courage and morale.” Early in 1931 Adolph S. Ochs,
the publisher of the New York Times, lunched with Lamont and Owen Young.
Ochs raised the failure of the Chelsea Bank & Trust, a small bank that catered to
a Jewish clientele. He asked Lamont whether the New York banks had done
enough to forestall its failure. A week later, writing to Ochs, Lamont professed
that he thought the Clearing House banks had fulfilled their duties but noted that
J.P. Morgan & Co. was only peripherally involved: “As you are aware, our
house has had to content itself chiefly with the condition, – good, bad or
indifferent, as the case might be, of private banking concerns, whereas the
Clearing House banks have properly taken the lead in institutional
difficulties.”46 Less formally, Lamont had told his daughter months earlier that
“It’s been panicky down in Wall Street. I have had to organize sudden rescue
parties.”47 This was a reference to the troubles, either real or rumoured,
afflicting a number of private firms. Winslow, Lanier & Co; Kissel Kinnicutt &
Co.; Brown Brothers & Co.; Lee Higginson; Goldman, Sachs & Co.; and Kidder,
Peabody were all roiled and this was the Morgan theatre for action in 1930–31.
Private firms could not count on backing from the New York Clearing
House nor were private banks members of the Federal Reserve system. Yet they
were important components of the Wall Street ecosystem. As the strongest of the
Page 259
Page 259
Wall Street private banks, J.P. Morgan & Co. was looked to for aid when private
firms ran into trouble. The Morgan partners made choices about assistance.
Approached in October 1930 about rescuing Munroe & Co., the bank declined,
on the grounds that it “is not warranted by the character of the business or the
importance of the firm.” Callousness was apparent. Bell recalled one partner
telling him when the brokers Pynchon and Company failed in April 1931, “Too
bad, but these ripe apples must fall.”48 When a decision was made to assist,
Bartow was the partner who took the lead. This was the case with Winslow,
Lanier & Co. An old, established specialist firm in railroad securities, it found
itself strapped by the travails of the railroad sector and the overall decline in the
stock market. In October 1930 the Morgan firm intervened, with Bartow
ushering the firm over the ensuing months into an orderly liquidation. Kidder,
Peabody, a much more prestigious Boston firm linked closely to J.P. Morgan &
Co., was another instance where the Morgan partners acted. The decision was
made to restructure the firm, whose fortunes had declined precipitously. Between
November 1930 and March 1931 J.P. Morgan & Co. orchestrated a restructuring
of Kidder, Peabody, finding new partners to inject capital and dynamism into the
firm, while arranging for a revolving credit of $10 million to buttress the new
Kidder, Peabody.49 This was not, as Carosso has commented, an “altruistic”
step. The Morgan partners feared the effects on their prestige if Kidder failed,
while they fretted its bankruptcy would have a cascade effect in an already
unsettled market.50
Brown Brothers & Co. was another old-line firm with established pedigree
that found itself struggling. Its salvation was a merger with Harriman Brothers.
Here the Morgan partners played no role, other than to welcome the
development as positive for the Street.51 Kissel, Kinnicutt; Goldman, Sachs; and
Lee, Higginson were other firms that found themselves under attack as rumours
Page 260
Page 260
spread about their soundness. Well aware of the calamitous effects that gossip
could have, the partners sought to reassure interlocutors that these banks were
sound.52 Noteworthy is the judgement that both Kissel, Kinnicutt and Lee,
Higginson were in good shape, an indication of how difficult it could be for even
a bank as well connected as J.P. Morgan & Co. to discern the financial health of
others, given that both Kissel, Kinnicutt and Lee, Higginson were to fail in the
next eighteen months. Beyond the informational problem discerning the exact
state of affairs of competing firms in a financial community where rumour and
speculation warred with discretion and secrecy, the scope of the catastrophe
washing over the Street imposed limits on Morgan effectiveness. New York City
had boasted 233 investment banking houses in 1929. By 1933 that figure had
dropped to 145.53
The self-appointed Morgan role as the paladin of private firms in extremis
ended in 1931. Rescuing private firms was beyond the Morgan means thereafter,
though the extent to which the firm had been battered by the losses of 1931 was
not realized on the Street until the revelations of the Pecora hearings in 1933. J.P.
Morgan & Co. continued to be consulted in a variety of high-profile cases in
1932–33, notably the ongoing financial difficulties of New York City and the
summer 1932 crisis in Chicago that required the rescue of Charles Dawes’
former bank, Central Republic Bank and Trust, but such instances were
collaborative, multi-party, and did not necessitate the engagement of significant
financial resources by the Corner. There was anxiety in the fall of 1932 about the
financial health of First National Bank, connected closely to J.P. Morgan & Co.
George F. Baker junior asked Lamont and Jack Morgan whether they would be
willing to become directors of First National in a visible sign of Morgan support
for the firm. After discussion, Jack Morgan and Lamont rejected the idea, fearing
the complications that might arise from the bank’s First Security securities arm.
Four years later they parachuted Fraser into First National to strengthen the
Page 261
Page 261
bank’s executive.54 The most spectacular failures of 1932 – that of Lee,
Higginson occasioned by the bankruptcy of Kreuger & Toll and the
disintegration of Samuel Insull’s utility empire – saw J.P. Morgan & Co.
involved tangentially rather than directly. Shrunken Morgan means was one
reason why, but other considerations were in play. Jack Morgan had declined to
become involved with Ivor Kreuger, doubting his veracity, while Insull’s
Midwestern utilities were a rival to the Morgan-controlled United Corporation.
Morgan attention was drawn elsewhere as crises mounted, in the first instance to
the railroads.
*****
The railroads were commanding in their economic importance. Sectoral
employment, which had peaked in 1920 at more than 2 million, still stood at
nearly 1.7 million as the decade ended. On 1 October 1929 the value of all
publicly traded stocks on the NYSE was $79.1 billion, of which total $10.1
billion was railway stocks, the single largest component on the exchange.
Outside of government bonds – federal, state, and municipal – railway bonds
constituted the largest group on the bond market. The FRBNY estimated in
December 1931 that railway bonds were more than one-fifth of the bond
market.55 Railroad stocks and bonds were the bedrock of the American
investor’s portfolio, a staple of bank holdings, and responsible for much of the
lifeblood of Wall Street. Yet the railroads, plagued by overcapacity, faced with
stiff competition from the trucking industry, and with a history of acrimonious
labour relations, were finding survival challenging as the economy shuddered
and traffic declined. As an ABA editorial remarked in June 1931, “With
practically every bank in the country holding railroad securities, the crisis which
appears to be developing in the rails makes the future of the roads a matter of
direct banking concern.”56 This was even truer for J.P. Morgan & Co, for whom
Page 262
Page 262
the railroads had been one of the building blocks in their rise to pre-eminence on
Wall Street. Railway bonds had constituted the greatest share of domestic bonds
issued by the bank after 1919. Morgan action was expected. The progressive lion
Senator George Norris roared in February 1933, “Today if the government
wanted to take over the railroads, we would only have to go to one man – just
one man – J.P. Morgan.”57
Such authority may well have been a relief to Jack Morgan had it existed.
For the Morgan partners, the Van Sweringen railroad empire was increasingly
burdensome. As was discussed, the Morgan partners had been forced to
participate in the rescue of the Van Sweringen brothers in October 1930, leaving
them, reluctantly, as one of the de facto owners of a sprawling railroad empire.
Unfortunately, the injection of capital proved inadequate. A series of additional
operations were undertaken to buttress the Van Sweringen moorings.58 These
financial contortions, which weakened a struggling Missouri Pacific Railroad,
part of the Van Sweringen agglomeration, were driven by the inescapable reality
that the Van Sweringens were unable to service their debts. Demand loans from a
J.P. Morgan & Co.–led consortium (the other participants were Guaranty Trust
and Kuhn, Loeb & Co.) to the Missouri Pacific were employed to conceal this
unpalatable truth. The first such loan was made on 31 March 1931 in the amount
of $3 million at 4.5 per cent for thirty days; five further loans at the same interest
rate followed at the end of April, July, August, October, and December 1931,
taking the total extended to the Missouri Pacific to $11.7 million. The Morgan
share was $5.85 million.59
The Morgan partners recognized that such efforts were stop-gap.
Fundamental reform of the railroads of the kind that the Transportation Act of
1920 had enjoined was needed. Through the 1920s little had been done – but
crisis might spur meaningful action. This was the theme of Morgan pressure on
Page 263
Page 263
Hoover in the fall of 1930 to secure consolidation within the industry. Lamont
told Hoover that Jack Morgan had sanctioned any assistance that J.P. Morgan &
Co. might tender if the outcome should be restructuring. Pointedly, in November
1930, Lamont blamed General W.W. Atterbury, the president of the
Pennsylvania Railroad, for obstructionism, warning that Atterbury’s opposition
was blocking consolidation. If movement was not forthcoming, Lamont
cautioned Hoover, the railroads would find securing the necessary financing for
their operations impossible.60 Late in 1930, prodded by Hoover, the four
principal eastern systems agreed to consolidate, informing the Interstate
Commerce Commission of this in early January 1931, a triumph that soon
proved illusory. Nine months later O.P. Van Sweringen wrote the Morgan
partners that if concrete steps were not taken to implement consolidation when
Congress reconvened in December, then the impetus to public ownership of the
railroads might become irresistible. The threat was enough that Lamont wrote
the four railway presidents to urge them to press their case before the Interstate
Commerce Commission, despite misgivings on the part of some Commissioners
who wanted a five-party railroad system rather than a four. As the Wall Street
Journal reported on 2 October 1931, the momentum favoured exponents of the
four-party plan, “with the pressure of the present economic situation regarded as
a powerful influence in this direction.”61
Lamont wrote Hoover on 8 October, informing him that the Interstate
Commerce Commission was struggling not solely with the question of
consolidation but also with the issue of railroad rates, telling the president that if
this news should leak it would depress the price of railway bonds even more.62
Lamont had been warning about the dangers in the railroad bond market for
some months. Late in August 1931 he had sent the president a personal letter in
which he placed the total amount of railroad bonds on the State of New York
legal list at $7.7 billion. The legal list consisted of securities that it was
Page 264
Page 264
permissible for banks and insurance companies to hold on behalf of investors
and pension plans. Lamont estimated that $5.44 billion, or 70 per cent, would no
longer qualify for legal list status in light of their depreciation in price. Should
this occur, Lamont pointed out, banks, insurance companies, and investors would
suffer grievously.63
Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg of Michigan wrote Hoover twice in
September 1931 to warn him of the “unliquidity” of Midwest banks, but Hoover
did not need to be prompted by Vandenberg; he had earlier met with Meyer to
urge him to persuade the leading New York banks of the virtues of a voluntary
banking cooperation scheme that would extend assistance to banks in need.
Meyer was dubious, favouring a revival of the wartime War Finance
Corporation. Nevertheless, he agreed to try to cajole the New York bankers into
compliance.64 Banks, the railways, the worsening economy, and the aftershocks
of the British decision to leave gold melded when Hoover addressed a meeting
of nineteen leading New York bankers at Mellon’s apartment on 4 October 1931.
Present were Lamont and Whitney.
Hoover called for “concerted action on the part of our leading bankers and
strong banks to avert a possible threat to our entire credit structure,” asking those
present to form a national organization with capital of $500 million. Its stated
purpose was to rediscount bank assets that the Federal Reserve System was not
allowed to loan on as well as to loan money to closed banks against their assets
to relieve pressure on depositors. The Morgan reaction was favourable, though
J.P. Morgan & Co. did not participate in the $150 million from the New York
Clearing House banks that was pledged to form the National Credit Corporation
(NCC). Tellingly, Harrison observed that, while the plan would help banks
afflicted with liquidity problems, it would not do anything for institutions whose
future had been compromised by solvency worries, driven by the sharp decline
in real estate values and the bond portfolios that they held. Harrison cautioned
Page 265
Page 265
that there were “unavoidable limitations” to what could be done through the
NCC and recommended that Hoover explore the possibility of creating a bond
pool to support the railroad bond market.65
Ongoing lobbying by Lamont and Harrison had an effect. Hoover conceded
to Lamont in late November that “[t]he railway situation is indeed the principal
impediment to domestic recovery,” though he refused to become involved
directly in the question of industry wage rates.66 To drive home the connections
between railroad wage rates, the railroad bond market, and the peril facing
American banking, Harrison phoned the president on 15 December 1931. Their
conversation was preceded by a two-hour-long talk that Harrison had had with
Lamont, Leffingwell, and Whitney. Harrison told Hoover that he had warned the
Morgan partners that banks were facing the wall due to declines in bond prices
and that there would be many failures quickly if something were not done.
Harrison urged them to form a pool to support the railroad bond market. The
Morgan attitude, Harrison informed Hoover, was “generally sympathetic” but
they had insisted that no pool would work unless negotiations leading to wage
cuts were successful. The Morgan partners wanted assurances that there would
be an acceptable deal. Hoover, pressed, told Harrison that he would do his best
to ensure that a sectoral wage deal was reached. Harrison followed up the phone
conversation with the despatch of a letter and memorandum to Hoover that had
been written for Meyer a week earlier. The memorandum, entitled the “Banking
Situation in the Second District,” put flesh on the bones of a stark warning.
According to the FRBNY, nearly 300 banks would show losses due to bond
depreciation equal to or close to equal to their capital and another 150–200
banks would have losses that would mean “capital impairment.” More than half
of the banks in the second district were vulnerable, a condition that the FRBNY
thought was mirrored across the country. By the time that Hoover spoke with
Page 266
Page 266
Harrison, he had acted. Frustrated at the laggardly pace of NCC loans to troubled
banks, and alarmed by a renewed move downward in the securities markets, the
president had proposed on 7 December legislation that would create the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation (RFC), a tacit admission that Meyer’s
advice in September had been correct.67
The RFC was to become a critical vehicle in the reconstruction of American
capitalism after its foundation in February 1932.68 One of the RFC’s first loans
was to the Missouri Pacific, which allowed the railroad to discharge the demand
loan that had been made by the Morgan-led syndicate. Much to Lamont’s
chagrin, the transaction became public knowledge, prompting Senator James
Couzens to assail the loan as well as to introduce a bill to transfer authority from
the RFC to the Interstate Commerce Commission overseeing railroad loans.
Lamont and Couzens had a testy exchange of letters. Couzens pointed acidly to
what he called the lamentable impression made upon public opinion from loans
that aided private bankers while there was such “great distress” in the country.
Lamont vented his feelings to his partners in a memorandum that chastised the
“very stupid blunder” by the Missouri Pacific treasurer that had left the bank
“rather embarrassed.”69 Embarrassment aside, the RFC loan postponed the day
of reckoning for the Van Sweringens and for the Morgan bank. RFC assistance
propped up the railroads in 1932–33 but did little to reshape an industry in peril.
Anderson, the in-house Morgan expert on railroads, ascribed the formation of the
RFC to a desire to guide the railroads through difficult times in the expectation
that once this was done rail traffic would rebound and so too would profits.
However, traffic volumes continued to slide. For Anderson, the basic problem
was simple: “Originally – and incorrectly – the authorities at Washington felt
that the depression was a temporary affair that could be ameliorated by favorable
Page 267
Page 267
psychological factors.”70 What he neglected to say was that this too had been the
Morgan assessment in 1929–30.
*****
While the railroads were worrisome well before Anderson wrote, Leffingwell
had reached a state of near panic about deflation. Since the fall of 1930
Leffingwell’s views on the Depression had undergone revision. Speaking to the
Academy of Political Science in April 1931 he insisted on the war as the
fundament of the evils that had ensued, with war debts, reparations, and tariffs
the symptoms. There remained a residue of morality. “We became,” Leffingwell
told his audience, “a nation of spenders and speculators” for which a curative
could be found in “hard work and thrift in our private lives.”71 The crises of the
summer made plain that, whatever the attractions of rectitude as an explanation
and a solution for American trials, urgency dictated action. As Leffingwell told
Parker Gilbert in September 1931, when Morgan nerves were stretched taut by
the sterling crisis, now was not the time to worry about revising war debts:
But now I beg you … to take note of the fact that our civilisation today, at
this moment, is in gravest jeopardy and that the question is how to save it.
All over the world ruin and starvation are staring men, tens of millions of
them, rich and poor, in the face. The infinitely delicate economic machine is
breaking down. The problem may be insoluble. But its gravity demands a
capital operation. The whole building is on fire now. It is too late for dear
old Secretary Mellon’s pretty little Pyrene Extinguisher.72
Though Leffingwell appreciated the peril, there were limits to a “capital
operation.” He was not prepared to follow John Maynard Keynes, though he
conceded that Keynes was the “most brilliant journalistic-economic mind of our
time.” Keynes had been the intellectual motive force behind the MacMillan
Page 268
Page 268
Currency Report that was published on 13 July 1931. Struck in 1929 to
illuminate the reasons for the sluggishness of British economic performance, the
report called for managed money directed by the Bank of England, an effort to
restore world price levels to those of 1928, and criticized Britain’s return to gold
in 1925 as yielding parsimonious dividends at the expense of damage to
industry. Two weeks after the appearance of the MacMillan Report, the May
Committee Report, forecasting a government budget deficit of £120 million in
the 1932–33 financial year, called for sweeping economies. Keynes, in The New
Statesman on 15 August 1931, attacked the May Report for its failure to
appreciate that implementing the economies suggested would boost
unemployment rolls.73 Leffingwell deemed Keynes’ ideas a “half-truth.”
Leffingwell agreed with Keynes that government spending created employment,
wages, and tax revenue, but in a wasteful manner. For Leffingwell, “private
enterprise tends to be more economical and more productive.” Keynes wanted
the gold standard abandoned and wanted managed money, which would write
the “epitaph of laissez-faire,” dooming capitalism.74 Leffingwell admitted that
the problem of deflation and inflation was “infinitely perplexing” but was
adamant that Keynes was a false prophet, his acolytes deluded. Keynes and those
who thought like him “have not the judgment of practical men … confidence is
based on keeping one’s promises. That is something that Keynes will never
know.” Robustly, Leffingwell insisted that American policy must “walk the
straight and narrow path, with our heads set against deflation on the one hand,
and paper money inflation on the other.”75
With this maxim, the Morgan partners crafted a lobby that mixed fidelity to
the tenets of orthodox finance – balanced budgets, preservation of the gold
standard, disdain for managed money – with confronting deflation. Surging
numbers of bank failures in the fall of 1931, conjoined with the strain on the
Page 269
Page 269
Morgan balance sheet occasioned by foreign deposit withdrawals, galvanized the
partners.76 Leffingwell and Lamont led the effort; the former engaging with
Lippmann, Harrison, Meyer, and Glass, while Lamont interacted with the
president. Given Hoover’s move toward greater experimentation with the NCC
and RFC, it might be thought that the president would be sympathetic. To a point
this was correct, but Hoover’s tendency to see Wall Street negatively sat uneasily
with Morgan advice.
Leffingwell advanced two propositions in the fall and early winter of
1931–32: the first was an insistence that encouraging American prices and
wages to sink to the lower level of world prices would wring out deflation; the
second was that credit contraction had to be fought through policy changes
implemented by the Federal Reserve as well as remedial legislation supported by
the White House. Only then, Leffingwell thought, would recovery begin.
Convincing others was necessary, and thus the Morgan partners sought to
persuade selected individuals of the wisdom of their views, consistent with their
practice as merchant bankers that emphasized personal contact. Lippmann, seen
at the Corner as the most consequential figure in shaping informed American
opinion, was of especial importance.
Lippmann had long known the Morgan partners, and his admiration for
them was undimmed. Writing in December 1930, Lippmann enthused at the
“courage and quiet unselfishness of some of the big bankers … The burden
which Tom Lamont, for example, has carried has been immense, not of course
personal to himself or his firm, but for the banking community.”77 Leffingwell
and Lippmann met on 29 October 1931 to discuss how the United States might
extricate itself from the Depression. That week two prominent university-based
economists, Yale’s Irving Fisher and Princeton’s E.W. Kemmerer, had called for
an expansion of the money supply, arguing that the gold cover of the Federal
Page 270
Page 270
Reserve system was more than ample, despite hoarding and the heavy
withdrawals to Europe that had characterized the weeks after sterling left gold.
Fisher and Kemmerer suggested that an injection of liquidity would help kick-
start a rise in prices. Effectively this was a call for inflation – or so Leffingwell
interpreted it. Writing Lippmann on 30 October, Leffingwell attached a Federal
Reserve statement on its balance sheet for the last year, observing that Federal
Reserve credit had jumped by $1.5 billion, note circulation was up by $1 billion,
the gold reserve had fallen $300 million, and despite these changes prices had
continued to fall. Leffingwell drew two conclusions: first, “monetary inflation
won’t stop the depression”; second, “our resources are insufficient to permit
further experimentation along that line anyway” even though he had favoured a
cheap money policy until “two or three weeks ago.” Rather than trying to raise
wholesale prices to 1928 levels, Leffingwell advised that policy should work to
“bring rents, wages, rates and retail prices down to the present wholesale price
levels.” If this happened, “we should be out of the woods in six months.” Too
high a wage level worked against labour by increasing unemployment and
immiserating the working class. It did not affect the middle class, but
Leffingwell charged, it is “wicked fraud against the workers. They are being
cheated of their means of livelihood by the leaders who pretend to befriend
them.” Leffingwell’s emphasis on wage cuts was not novel. Repeated calls for
wage cuts had been made since the spring of 1931 by leading bankers and
rebuffed angrily by labour leaders.78
Lippmann was not convinced. Uncertain, he inquired how much prices
might rise should Leffingwell’s counsel be implemented, a query that was
followed swiftly by another: Had deflation run its course?79 While Leffingwell
momentarily thought in mid-November 1931, as he told his partners, that the
“third panic” of the depression had ended, continued deflationary pressure led
Page 271
Page 271
him to reverse course, stressing that matters were desperate.80 Writing to
Lippmann on 18 December, Leffingwell insisted that he was pursuing a middle
course between inflation and deflation, urging Lippmann to combat “the spirit of
defeatism which is sweeping over the country” and to “call upon patriotic
people in and out of Congress to rally around our constitutional leader.”81 After
a further exchange, a grateful Lippmann sent Leffingwell a short note: “Thanks
enormously for your letter which is full of solemn wisdom.”82 Although
Leffingwell would tell Grenfell that “nobody on earth can control Walter
Lippmann,” his columns deviated little from the economic panaceas advanced
by Leffingwell and Parker Gilbert in 1932–33.83
Harrison, Meyer, and Glass, experts, required a different tack than
Lippmann. Leffingwell’s communications with Harrison and Meyer had an
overriding theme: “to stop the contraction of credit which has proceeded for two
years and with devastating speed in recent months.” Absent was the insistence
on letting American prices decline to world levels as a curative. Leffingwell
urged Harrison to consider a range of helpful measures from offering bill
maturities on a sliding scale, to letting banks lend on a wider range of good
collateral, to reducing the Federal Reserve borrowing rate for banks. Leffingwell
warned Harrison that there was a “semi-panic in the bond markets” due to the
size of the government deficit and the failure of recent bond issues. Raising
interest rates to make sure future offerings would be counterproductive, for it
would “impair” outstanding issues. Treasury deficit financing, he told Meyer,
was making matters worse, as it was “highly deflationary.” Leffingwell argued
that Federal Reserve member banks, already reeling from deposit losses
occasioned by a combination of foreign withdrawals and domestic hoarding,
were forced to call loans and sell securities when the Treasury sold bills to them.
This reduced deposits, exerted pressure on equities, and shrank bank resources,
Page 272
Page 272
and “thus the Treasury accelerates the vicious circle of deflation.” Leffingwell
urged Meyer to encourage the Federal Reserve system to carry larger balances in
banks that bought Treasury bills. Federal Reserve banks could help by offering
banks a lower borrowing rate on Treasury paper than the paper itself bore.
“This,” he reminded Meyer, “was the war practice; and this is war.”84 Federal
Reserve open-market operations had their place, but Leffingwell believed they
should be secondary. Should inflation appear, the Federal Reserve could control
it by raising the discount rate. Federal government borrowing, which now
dominated the market, had to be managed “in such a way as not to contract
credit further.”85
Neither Harrison nor Meyer could have been startled by what Leffingwell
propounded. Writing Leon Fraser, Harrison observed “there is a surprising
unanimity of opinion among industrial and banking leaders and our leading
economists that liquidation has proceeded beyond the point of whatever benefits
it may confer.”86 Meyer had already shown his willingness to push forward
expedients to tackle deflation. Ogden Mills, who succeeded Mellon as secretary
of the Treasury in February 1932, accepted that deflation had gone too far,
articulating this understanding in a series of speeches early in 1932.87 Weighing
Leffingwell’s influence on Harrison and Meyer is thus difficult. Alan Meltzer
has argued that in December and January 1931–32 Harrison was resistant to
open-market operations, delaying them repeatedly, a stance that Leffingwell
favoured.88 Yet Leffingwell’s anti-deflation impulses were more absolutist than
Harrison was prepared to allow. If the latter worried that inflation anxiety was
ingrained so deeply within the financial community that its mere mention caused
trembling, this was not an anxiety shared by Leffingwell. He told Carter, “The
last thing I fear is inflation. Still I suppose that there are a certain number of
people who in an Arctic winter worry about the heat of the tropics.” Leffingwell
Page 273
Page 273
was more disturbed at the possibility that no “local program here to arrest the
deflation can succeed,” given deflation’s global reach.89
Leffingwell’s nightmares drove Morgan efforts to pressure Glass into
modifying his proposed legislation to reform the Federal Reserve Act. Glass,
whose identification with the Federal Reserve system as his personal creation
bordered on the obsessive, believed that systemic financial failings had
occasioned the Depression. Commercial banking desires, in Glass’ view, had
warped his system. Their transgressions in security lending, made possible by
heavy borrowing from the Federal Reserve banks, had contributed massively to
speculation, fomenting the 1929 crash that had spawned deflation. Commercial
banks, Glass thought, should be prohibited from securities lending and confined
to catering to the needs of agriculture and industry. Beyond the depredations of
the commercial banks, too many banks existed, while restrictions on chain and
branch banking crimped the establishment of stronger institutions. Glass wanted
all banks to be members of the Federal Reserve, a perspective that he urged on
Hoover in November 1931. He favoured increasing capital requirements for
banks, to help them withstand economic vicissitudes. Greater control over the
system should be fostered by reforming the Federal Reserve Board in
Washington and freeing it from undue banking industry influence. From the
spring of 1931 Glass worked on legislation to remedy these supposed ills.90
Leffingwell, though he shared some of Glass’ outlook, notably that
American banking was too fragmented, was opposed to much of what the
senator advanced. Taking advantage of their friendship, Leffingwell showered
Glass with paper, including an extraordinary letter of 3 February 1932 that ran to
thirty pages and that incorporated a detailed examination of every section of
Glass’ proposed bill, S 3215. Leffingwell worried Glass was attempting to deal
with the inflation of 1927–29 when it was halting deflation now that mattered.
Page 274
Page 274
He laid out a dark scenario, conjuring the prospect that Glass’ remedies would
worsen deflation, lead to the destruction of sound money, bring an end to the
gold standard, and allow the triumph of “the greenbackers and bimetallists and
managed-money-men.” Leffingwell told Glass that he was “appalled” by the
bill, for, should it become law, it would “complete the collapse of our economic
system.” Leffingwell’s objections were rooted in his conviction that the Federal
Reserve needed to be given more leeway to inject liquidity by allowing banks to
borrow on any good paper, while the gold reserves of the Federal Reserve should
form the basis of more courageous lending. Boosting capital requirements and
divorcing commercial banks from their security affiliates would only traumatize
the banking sector further. While he concurred with Glass that the rural banking
lobby had far too much power, Leffingwell abhorred the idea of centralizing
authority in Washington, rejecting any notion of inserting political power more
directly into the Federal Reserve. Leffingwell chided Glass, suggesting branch
banking be allowed on a Federal Reserve district basis rather than state-wide as
Glass wanted. Leffingwell told Glass the bill should be withdrawn, emphasizing
that Harrison and Meyer shared his fears. Though the two men met for two hours
on 2 February and again on the afternoon of 6 February to thrash out their
differences, Glass was intractable.91
While Leffingwell tackled Glass directly, Lamont was helping to marshal
opinion against the proposed bill. Quietly, Lamont spoke with the Republican
senator from Connecticut, Frederic Walcott, about the legislation. Walcott, a
Hoover ally, agreed with Lamont that the best way to revise the bill was not to
pass “anything at all at this time.” Harrison, alarmed at the potential
infringement upon the FRBNY’s autonomy incorporated in the Glass bill, was
also amenable.92 On 1 February a column distributed by the McClure newspaper
syndicate appeared in newspapers across the country. McClure was the largest
Page 275
Page 275
newspaper syndicate in the United States. The column discussed the views of an
anonymous “leading international authority” on the principal economic
questions of the day. Lamont was the authority. He had suggested the article, had
furnished the questions, and had provided the answers. Unsurprisingly, in
discussing
the
RFC,
the
railroads,
the
Mellon
tax
program,
war
debts/reparations, and the gold standard, Lamont supported the president’s
agenda. The RFC was lauded as a means to check deflation through assistance to
the banks, while the Mellon tax initiative, with its proposals for raising
additional revenue, was described as a “considerable step in the right direction,”
though Lamont recommended heavier expenditure cuts and possibly higher
taxation. As for the gold standard, in a passage borrowed verbatim from
Leffingwell, Lamont waxed eloquently about its atavism, claiming that love of
gold was intrinsic to human nature.93 Hoover was undoubtedly pleased, for the
column championed faithfully his sheet anchors – a balanced budget, the gold
standard – while praising initiatives pioneered by his administration. Conversely,
the president was disinclined to find in Glass’ nostrums hope for exiting the
Depression. White House opposition ensured that S 3215 encountered heavy
resistance. What emerged from Congress, the Glass–Steagall Act of 1932, as
Anderson commented, “bore about as much resemblance to the original as black
does to white.”94 The 1932 act gave the Federal Reserve greater flexibility to
lend through loosening the collateral restrictions on both the Federal Reserve
and commercial banks. Soon thereafter the Federal Reserve, driven by Harrison,
relying on Glass–Steagall, and fearing that Congress might be driven to legislate
inflationary measures, embarked upon a program of open-market purchasing.
Cautious at first, it gathered pace from April 1932.95
*****
Page 276
Page 276
Successful passage of Glass–Steagall was not enough for Hoover. While the
president could claim that his administration was taking steps to check deflation
and spur economic recovery, recovery would not be instantaneous. With the
1932 election on the horizon, Hoover wanted to stake an unassailable claim to
re-nomination. If on the one hand the president was persuaded that European
dislocation was at the root of American troubles, thus shuffling responsibility for
the Depression offshore, on the other he fastened on a needed villain at home in
short-selling. Short-sales involved speculators borrowing stock for a fee from a
brokerage or individual and selling the stock on the market, wagering that the
stock in question would fall in price. When it did so, the speculator would
purchase shares to return to the lender. The difference in price amounted to the
speculator’s profit. It is easy to see how short-sellers were accused of
exacerbating stock market declines. Hoover’s antipathy toward short-selling had
strengthened in 1931, but it was not until February 1932, when the president was
informed of rumblings by Walcott that Democratic short-sellers were preparing
fresh sallies, that Hoover pushed the Senate to act by opening an investigation
into Stock Exchange practices. Leffingwell thought that attacking short-sellers
was a clever choice by Hoover, for it would be popular in the country.96 The
politics of short-selling was to embroil J.P. Morgan & Co. in an unwanted
confrontation with Hoover in the spring of 1932.
On 16 March 1932 Lamont met the Republican senators David Reed and
George Moses in Washington before seeing Hoover and Stimson. Lamont was
planning a European trip in April and May 1932. Two subjects dominated his
discussion with the senators: the dependence of American well-being upon
European prosperity and short-selling. Meeting with the president and the
secretary of state, the three men covered these themes while discussing Hoover’s
re-election prospects, canvassing as they did a bleak slate of occurrences – the
Page 277
Page 277
wrangling in Congress over a balanced budget, the suicide of the financier Ivan
Krueger and the collapse of his empire, and the Lindbergh kidnapping.97 The
Morgan view of short-selling was clear. The practice was a necessary part of the
functioning of the stock market, was not in and of itself evil, and was not
contributing to the ongoing weakness in prices apparent on the New York Stock
Exchange. Lamont and Hoover had “quite an argument” about short-selling, as
Lamont tried, and failed, to convince the president to foreclose the incipient
Senate investigation. Two weeks later Lamont sent Hoover a memorandum
summarizing a study that J.P. Morgan & Co. had conducted on short-selling in
the market over the past nine months. The memorandum argued that short-
selling had stabilized stock market prices. Responsibility for falling stock market
prices lay with the steady selling of “long” positions. Overall, decline, Lamont
suggested, was a barometer of company earnings and future expectations, but it
had little to do with banking where the bond market had been more
consequential in weakening banks over the preceding year. Lamont pointed out
to Hoover that two recent steps imposed by the NYSE, restricting lending of
customers’ stocks and doubling the stock transfer tax, had curtailed short-selling.
There was no need, he counselled, to go any further.98
Hoover was unpersuaded. His obstinacy was stiffened by renewed
downward movement in the stock market. The Dow Jones Industrial Index
(DJII), which had stood at 381 in September 1929, had fallen to 71 in February
1932 before rebounding to 88 early in March. Thereafter, the market’s slide
resumed, falling uninterruptedly to the end of May when it reached 44.99 Hoover
replied that Lamont was ignoring that stock market prices were the outcome of a
concerted “pounding down of prices” through “obvious manipulation of the
market and propaganda,” betraying the public weal while forcing honest
investors from the market. Confidence and recovery were being undermined by
Page 278
Page 278
unscrupulous men who were “not justified in deliberately making a profit from
the losses of other people.” Lamont soft-pedalled, telling the president that,
though he was impressed by his arguments, the Morgan perspective was that
those who needed income were selling their investments because they were not
yielding sufficient earnings. Utilizing the metaphor of thin ice bearing too many
burdens – the inability to reach a balanced budget, the proposed Glass bill, the
soldier’s bonus, and the tax hike proposals – Lamont told the president that the
ice had cracked, fractured by these developments in conjunction with the
Krueger and Toll debacle. This had stalled a nascent bond market recovery. Now
in train was liquidation, not short-selling.100
The debate was fed by the president’s mounting antipathy toward bankers.
Late in March 1932 Hoover forwarded Harrison a letter that he had received
from “one of the most responsible business men of the country.” The letter was a
diatribe against bankers in Chicago and in New York, blaming their pessimism
for fomenting the Depression. The writer implored the president to order bankers
to be more constructive, asserting “they are a most servile class when spoken to
from authoritative power above them.” A pained Harrison took time to respond.
When he did, Harrison admitted that bankers were “cautious and skeptical” but
many had been “energetic, courageous, and helpful.” He pointed out that the
FRBNY had opened the liquidity taps, citing a $148 million jump in loans and
investments by New York banks over the previous week as a welcome sign.
Hoover was unmoved, dismissing Harrison’s suggestion that legislative foot-
dragging, rather than bankers, was paramount in the country’s economic
woes.101 Lamont was doing what he could to appease the president, meeting
with Colonel Robert McCormick of the Chicago Tribune and William Dewart of
the New York Sun to persuade them to support Hoover’s tax bill. Morgan desire
Page 279
Page 279
to placate the president was driven by more than a realization of Hoover’s
hostility. It was framed by worry.
Dean Jay, visiting the United States, wrote Carter in Paris on 1 April 1932,
“[t]here is practically no business here … the earnings of all the industries are
bad and the discouraging thing is that no one seems to see any signs of
improvement.” Jack Morgan found himself having to fend off a suggestion from
Allen Forbes, president of the State Street Corporation in Boston, that the time
had come to fix prices on the NYSE, as had been done at the outbreak of war in
1914.102 The journalist, and advisor to U.S. Steel, Samuel Crowther, argued in a
memorandum circulated to Leffingwell that, even if the RFC and the
Glass–Steagall Bill slowed the progress of deflation it would not end it.
Crowther forecast two possible outcomes of the Depression – a general
foreclosure and scaling down of all debts or a revolution. He thought the latter
more likely. Insufficient work existed for all, “[h]ence discontent will be too
widespread for any palliative measures.” Federal Reserve action alone would not
meet the craving for employment. Crowther’s solution was a combination of
open-market operations with the creation by a number of “strong corporations”
– General Motors, General Electric, and U.S. Steel – of “their own credit money
– that is, buying and selling with negotiable instruments, giving and receiving
them at cash prices” to increase “the credit volume of the country.” Crowther
admitted that commercial banks and the Federal Reserve would have to
cooperate to make his solution work. Leffingwell, in a commentary circulated to
his partners, adjudged the proposal the end of “sound money,” dismissing it
unequivocally.103
Leffingwell’s rejection reflected not solely the Morgan commitment to the
gold standard but also disdain for the appropriateness of collectivist solutions for
a nation that held individualism dear, thus his insistence to Lippmann that both
Page 280
Page 280
conservatives and progressives shared the same political philosophy, namely
wanting “a lot of government,” while liberals, which he counted himself as,
desired “as little government as possible.”104 Moreover, the Morgan partners
had become accustomed to plans to restructure American capitalism. Crowther
was not exceptional. Among the most publicized schemes was Gerard Swope’s
1931 blueprint to remake American industry on lines akin to cartelization.
Sundry ideas were tabled, criticized, and discarded metronomically in the search
for solutions among economists, businessmen, and politicians in 1931–32. The
Commercial and Financial Chronicle, in a caustic editorial, lampooned the
vogue for “Master Planning” as the way out of the Depression.105
The Morgan partners accepted that when Lawrence Dennis asked Is
Capitalism Doomed? in 1932 he was posing a pertinent question.106 Unlike
Dennis, whose answer to his own query was yes, and who came to believe that
salvation lay in fascism, the Morgan partners did not believe that revolution,
either from the Left or from the Right, was desirable or imminent. Neither the
Soviet Union nor Fascist Italy were an appealing model. An American future
without capitalism was inconceivable. To be American was, in the Morgan view,
to accept liberal, democratic capitalism as the ordering political and economic
principle. Refuge was taken in the insistence that the United States would
muddle through without the need for structural change prescribed by Crowther,
Swope, or others.107
Nevertheless, Morgan fears about the economy and about Hoover’s re-
election prospects prodded Lamont to take an extraordinary step. Newly returned
from Europe, relying upon material drafted by Leffingwell and Parker Gilbert,
he urged Hoover to invoke a Joint Session of Congress to confront the economic
emergency in late May 1932. A sixteen-page-long memorandum enjoined the
president to cut public spending by $500 million, returning federal expenditures
Page 281
Page 281
to 1926–27 outlays. Since the “general price level” had fallen 20 per cent since
1929, so too should government spending, which could be accomplished by
cutting government wages and salaries and reducing government departments,
agencies, and the Veterans Bureau by that percentage. To oversee these cuts, the
memorandum recommended bringing Dawes back as head of the Bureau of the
Budget. Revenue had to be increased and thus the Morgan partners supported
Hoover’s efforts to pass the Revenue Bill before Congress. In keeping with their
anti-tariff impulses, they advised the president that tariffs on oil, copper, coal,
and timber should be dropped as they were harming world trade. Railroads, too,
drew Morgan attention. Railroads were hobbled by the restraints imposed by the
Interstate Commerce Commission, which should be relaxed. Subsidies extended
to road transport and inland waterways that hurt railroads should be reviewed.
As for unemployment, private recovery was essential. Until this happened,
suffering must be relieved, leading the partners to recommend directing $300
million through the RFC in loans to states or local governments to provide food
and shelter to the needy. Echoing Leffingwell’s views, the memorandum was
against the expansion of public works, complaining that there already had been
too much: $1.5 billion from 1 January 1930 to 30 June 1932. This spending hurt
efforts, the memorandum asserted, to balance the budget on which business
recovery rested. An executive summary made plain where the Morgan partners
thought responsibility for mastering the Depression lay: “The demoralization of
the bond market and the general worsening of the financial situation are due
mainly to the uncertainties arising out of Washington.”108
Hoover’s receptiveness to this plea was influenced by a mix of
considerations. Robinson, Hoover’s banking confident, had informed the
president that Lamont, in cooperation with Otto Kahn, was exploring the idea of
persuading Coolidge to run for the Republican nomination. Hoover remarked,
Page 282
Page 282
“That shows how much of a friend Lamont is. Of course Kahn would do
anything, but I didn’t think it of Lamont.”109 Pique aside, the stock and bond
markets remained depressed, while unemployment was rising. The furore
surrounding the thousands of veterans who had marched to Washington, with
their dependants, demanding payment of their military service bonus, increased
the pressure. As Hoover considered, he was mindful that Lamont and Whitney
were working with Young on a Committee on Investment, the latest of the
president’s forays into voluntary associationism aimed at alleviating distress.110
Concurrently, J.P. Morgan & Co. was exploring how the bond market might be
supported. Hoover knew that these discussions were occurring. Lamont’s
memorandum had alluded to the prospect, suggesting that there would be no
“organised buying of bonds” without presidential leadership. While he might
disparage Lamont’s loyalty, Hoover was not prepared to reject openly the
Morgan program at the risk of forestalling these endeavours.
Practically, the president shuffled off the memorandum. His true feelings
were apparent later, when he damned it as “morally wrong.” Joslin, in his Off
the Record (1934), later referred anonymously and dismissively to Lamont,
assailing him as a “thoroughly frightened” and “panic-stricken banker.”111
Joslin’s scorn reflected the conviction of Hoover’s inner circle. Conspicuous is
the language employed to savage Lamont. The Morgan partners were frightened,
and justifiably so, given the state of the American economy in May 1932. This
did not mean that in their effort to sway Hoover the Morgan partners had the
answers to the Depression. The solutions they propounded were unlikely to have
improved matters. Staving off deflation through more deflation was not a means
to spark recovery. Austerity breeds austerity rather than prosperity. Yet the
Morgan partners were correct on a key point – a national emergency existed.
Page 283
Page 283
Decisive action was needed from Washington, something that Hoover and his
advisors failed to grasp.
Passage of the Revenue Bill in Congress on 2 June and the announcement
of the formation of the American Securities Investing Corporation (ASIC) by
J.P. Morgan & Co. the following day, in tandem with Hoover’s re-nomination at
the head of the Republican ticket later that month, quieted tensions between the
president and the Corner. This had taken effort; the announcement of the ASIC
turned on the quelling of the contretemps over short-selling. Hoover and Mills
pressed Harrison, Lamont, George Whitney, Young, and Richard Whitney to ban
the practice on the grounds that its existence was torpedoing the efforts of the
administration. Hoover groused to Mills, “I have hesitated to make any public
statement on this matter as it might attract more activities in this direction by
people who believe that there are groups in New York who are always right.” At
length, Harrison convinced Mills and the president that the bond market and the
stock market were two different things. Reviving the former was more
consequential. The Morgan partners had made it plain that formation of the
ASIC was conditional upon no action being taken to ban short-selling. While
short-selling flared once more in July 1932, it soon subsided, ending its political
ramifications.112 As for the ASIC, its $100 million capital was dedicated to
purchase bonds. The New Republic observed caustically that much ado was
being made about nothing. Anderson, reviewing ASIC’s operations two months
later, thought that it had made its participants money, broadened the bond market
a bit, injected some stability, and had attracted new buyers who had been
deterred by the chaos and instability before its formation, a modest
accomplishment that suited the Corner.113
The economic doldrums of the summer of 1932 were dispelled periodically
by brutality, the hard-hearted dispersal of the veterans’ encampment in
Page 284
Page 284
Washington standing out, a renewed discussion on the running sore of war debts
in the Lausanne Conference occasioned by the expiration of the Hoover
moratorium, and from July the gathering force of the presidential campaign with
the selection of Roosevelt as the Democratic nominee.
Morgan views on war debts had not altered. Lamont, in a speech in Boston
in June 1932, listed the first two causes of the Depression as the Great War and
the economic warfare that had ensued in the shape of reparations and war
debts.114 American policy on war debts in the spring and summer of 1932 was
complicated by the now distant relationship between Hoover and Stimson. The
former, fearing the political costs of any arrangement that might be interpreted
by American voters as hinting at the cancellation of war debts, was determined
to be steadfast. Stimson, who voyaged to Europe on the same ship as Lamont in
April 1932, was open to a compromise, but his influence with the president had
waned. Into this void stepped Lamont who convinced Paris and London not to
act until after the elections, while managing to secure acquiescence from Hoover
and Stimson. Lamont favoured a quiet revision of the Young Plan and an
extension of the moratorium to three years, while preservation of reparations
payments in reduced form was kept in being, ideas that found expression in the
eventual outcome of the Lausanne Conference.115 Within J.P. Morgan & Co.,
sentiment in favour of cancellation was growing.
Leffingwell spent June 1932 meeting central bankers, politicians, and
businessmen in London and Paris. His mission had two aims: one was to re-
establish more cordial relations among central banks; the other was to elicit a
better understanding of the British and French perspective on war debts and
reparations. Leffingwell conveyed a positive message to the Bank of England
and the Bank of France about Federal Reserve open-market operations. Having
doubted the latter as a deflation fighting tool earlier in the year, by the spring of
1932 he was praising their efficacy to Norman and Niemeyer at the Bank of
Page 285
Page 285
England and Moret and Rist at the Bank of France. In his talks Leffingwell
stressed Harrison’s competence as well as the necessity of central bank
cooperation in mastering the Depression.116 This said, renewed heavy
withdrawals of gold from the United States in May and June 1932, especially on
French account, had done much to blunt the force of open-market operations, a
point that Leffingwell pressed on his trip.
The greater part of Leffingwell’s energy was spent informing himself about
the British and French perspective on war debts and reparations. What he found
was unsettling. Jack Morgan had mused to Grenfell that British attempts to
placate the Germans on reparations were doing little more than alienating the
French, making Anglo-French concord unlikely. Leffingwell’s consultations
convinced him that both Paris and London were open to ending reparations, the
former preferring a face-saving arrangement to make it possible, while the latter
favoured surgical severance. The trouble was the reciprocal step required from
Washington – the cessation of war debt payments by Britain and France to the
United States – was anathema to Hoover. As Leffingwell consulted, the more
uneasy he became. Rumours of threats to the continued servicing of the Austrian
government loans, of a suspension of the Argentinian sinking fund, intermingled
with the war debts and reparations, would lead him to fear the repercussions of
failing to act on war debts.117
War debts needed to be cancelled, Leffingwell urged. A “clean slate” was
the only way forward. Delay could not be brooked “while the disintegration of
economic life continues and accelerates.” Without cancellation Leffingwell
forecast “complete default and or repudiation” on a wide swathe of obligations.
The Austrian and Argentinian loans would be the beginning. Lamont and Parker
Gilbert were fooling themselves to think any other course was feasible.
Leffingwell thought that there was an opportunity for Hoover. Paraphrasing King
Page 286
Page 286
Henry of Navarre – “I should rather not be King than King of a ruined people” –
Leffingwell argued that renouncing war debts would give a fillip to the economy,
demonstrate the president’s leadership, and do more to accomplish his re-
election than any other step he could take.118 Leffingwell’s counsel misread both
Hoover and congressional opinion. Hoover was not Henry of Navarre. The
latter’s apocryphal remark, “Paris is well worth a mass,” when he converted to
Catholicism from his Huguenot faith, which made possible his later assumption
of the throne of France as Henry IV, drives home the point: it was not in Herbert
Hoover to convert, nor was Congress inclined to cancellation.119
Reinforcing presidential stubbornness was the imminent failure of Dawes’
former bank, Central Republic and Trust of Chicago. There was no direct
connection between war debts and the troubles of Dawes’ bank but the politics
of rescuing the bank ruled out concessions on war debts. Money could not be
given both to Central Republic and, seemingly, to Britain and France through
forgiveness of war debts. Two emergency meetings on 26 June 1932, the second
of which Lamont and Parker Gilbert participated in, agreed to an injection of $90
million from the RFC into the Central Republic and Trust to prevent its
failure.120 Given these circumstances, Lamont’s effort, prodded by Leffingwell,
to shift Hoover’s position on war debts was a failure.
Lamont had prepared the ground assiduously, delivering a speech in June
that analysed the reasons behind the Depression while defending Hoover’s
record. He listed the administration’s accomplishments, ranging from the Hoover
moratorium that had saved a “complete collapse in Central Europe,” to the NCC
that staved off banking failures in the Midwest, to the positive work of the RFC
in rescuing banks and railways, to the February 1932 passage of the
Glass–Steagall Bill, to the defeat of the Soldier’s Bonus and other “inflationary
schemes,” to congressional passage of the Revenue Bill to help balance the
Page 287
Page 287
budget. All of these salutary measures, Lamont said to his former Harvard
classmates, demonstrated Hoover’s leadership.121 Through Egan, Lamont sent
Hoover the speech and asked the president whether he would like it repeated.
Hoover was pleased, urging Lamont to give the speech elsewhere though he
suggested that Lamont give more emphasis to how his administration had saved
the American credit structure. Lamont duly complied, the two men collaborating
in September 1932 on a recycled version of the speech to lobby the New York
Sun. While trumpeting Hoover’s accomplishments the text warned of past
Democratic failings and Roosevelt’s indebtedness to dark forces, addenda
requested by Hoover.122
Hoover was less welcoming of the other message from Lamont relayed by
Egan. Pushed by Leffingwell, Lamont inquired whether means might be found to
grant relief to Britain and France on war debts. Hoover was unreceptive. The
Lausanne Conference had wrapped up with the effective abolition of the Young
Plan and the ending of reparations underwritten by an ostensibly secret Anglo-
French understanding not to enforce the agreement until an arrangement could
be reached with the United States to terminate war debts.123 This outcome upset
Hoover. His animus vis-à-vis the French, spurred by the grudge that he nursed
from the moratorium discussions in 1931, spilled over. He told Egan that the
French were to blame for painting the British into a corner. Public anger, he
claimed, was tremendous, citing the “hundreds of messages” he had received
against any attempt to “gang us” on war debts. Lamont was out of touch with
the temper of the American people.124 Hoover’s reaction demonstrated how far
the belief that Morgan advice was being driven by European concerns permeated
the White House. Despite this rebuff, Lamont was not prepared to give up.
Leffingwell and Parker Gilbert, in an internal memorandum to Jack Morgan in
early August, argued that the time had come to settle the inter-allied war debts
Page 288
Page 288
with Britain and France rather than waiting until after the election. They
suggested a lump-sum payment might suffice.125 Shortly thereafter Lamont tried
anew to convince Hoover, telling the president that “[s]ustained business
recovery – a refilling of the empty dinner pail – is the essential thing now,”
which in turn depended on settling war debts. To reinforce this message, Lamont
raised the spectre that Roosevelt would act in this direction first and that Al
Smith was already planning to: “He is no mean politician and he sees the
moving of public opinion.”126 This too failed to sway Hoover.
The presidential campaign found the Morgan partners torn. The question of
why the partners did not disavow Hoover’s cause owes something to Morgan
culture, which forbade open political involvement, and something to engrained
Republican sentiment. While informed observers knew where the political
sympathies of the Morgan partners lay, the firm itself adopted no partisan
position. Hoover’s rigidity was a source of despair at the Corner but was not
enough to dispel the bank’s dominant Republicanism. Writing the Morgan
Grenfell partner Vivian Smith, Leffingwell reflected, “Most men of property in
these parts are hereditary Republicans … [and] the belief they suck in with their
mother’s milk [is] that the Republican party is the party of prosperity.”127 While
the “rude shocks” since 1929 had shaken this inherited identification, they had
not displaced it, he concluded. Anderson remarked, “[a] Republican by instinct,
if not by conviction, I found it very difficult to stomach a good deal of the
Republican doctrine as to what had been done and what ought to be done,”
before confessing that he had voted for Hoover.128 Welding partner affinity to
Republicanism was the shuddering of the old order under the impact of the
Depression. Morgan Republicanism remained the liberal, international
Republicanism of the 1920s before the deluge. Belief that the Depression could
only be understood and mastered as an international phenomenon arising from
Page 289
Page 289
World War I helped keep the majority of the Morgan partners Republican. The
Morgan partners may have lost faith in Hoover but not in Republicanism.
Lamont worked behind the scenes to support the Republican cause,
intervening where he could to bolster the campaign, lobbying, and partaking in
last-minute fundraising efforts to push Hoover over the line. Personally, Lamont
gave at least $7,000 to the Republican campaign, while the Morgan partners
collectively donated $13,500 to the Republican National Committee, amounts
that, while substantial, were much smaller than the $61,500 donated by bankers
affiliated with Chase National or even the $28,500 donated by the partners of
Kuhn, Loeb & Co.129 Contrary to what has been suggested, Jack Morgan did not
furnish the Republican campaign with $500,000. After a direct personal plea
from Hoover in October, he guaranteed this sum against money to be raised later
from donors.130
While Lamont was exerting his influence to secure Hoover’s re-election, his
partner Leffingwell was ruminating on his decision to support Roosevelt. In
some ways this was not unexpected; Leffingwell was a Democrat. Just how
unusual this was in the corridors of power on Wall Street was illustrated by a
January 1933 Fortune article that identified only his partner Parker Gilbert and
two other leading figures on the Street (Thatcher M. Brown of Brown Brothers
Harriman and Charles H. Sabin of Guaranty Trust) as Democrats.131 Leffingwell
told Lippmann that his decision to back Roosevelt had been sudden, prompted
by a combination of Roosevelt’s embrace of cutting tariffs and Hoover’s
flirtation with leaving gold. “Hoover’s lack of economic and social convictions,
principles and foresight” and his “nervous irritability and political ineptitude”
were, in Leffingwell’s eyes, “a great peril to the state.” Roosevelt, in contrast,
“will have, I think, a sedative effect upon men’s minds and souls for some time
… When the patient is dying a change of doctors may arouse new hope and even
Page 290
Page 290
that hope may help him to live.”132 Though Leffingwell and Parker Gilbert were
in the minority of Morgan partners supporting Roosevelt, they were the Morgan
economists and theirs was the counsel that J.P. Morgan & Co. endeavoured to
follow in economic affairs. For the moment, they clung to familiar maxims, the
pursuit of open-market operations by the Federal Reserve, adherence to the gold
standard, the sanctity of balanced budgets, and an insistence on cutting tariffs,
but the possibility of a new course beckoned.
*****
Roosevelt’s electoral triumph was not viewed with alarm by the Morgan
partners. Dean Jay, writing Carter on 10 November, told him that, while only
Leffingwell and Parker Gilbert had voted for Roosevelt, “I could discover no
enthusiasm among the others who voted Hoover.” The result had been taken
“philosophically.” Perhaps, Jay ventured, the “tide has turned.”133 Some of this
calmness derived from the fact that the senior Morgan partners knew Roosevelt;
given the compact nature of the eastern American seaboard elite and the
common paths that its denizens followed in their upbringing, education, and
social milieu, how could they not? Roosevelt was part of “our crowd.”134
Lamont and Leffingwell addressed their letters to him, “Dear Frank.” This did
not mean that they were friends with the president-elect. Lamont and
Leffingwell, like Jack Morgan and Whitney, were acquaintances of Roosevelt’s,
not his intimates.135 Their view of Roosevelt was expressed by Leffingwell:
I look for better feeling and somewhat better times under Frank, who is a
pleasant and well-meaning fellow, and who has shown no evidence of
thinking that he is a superman. He is not. Though I always liked him I
thought until a few months ago that Frank was hardly good enough for the
job. Some friend of Frank’s, Roland Norris I think, is quoted as saying that
Page 291
Page 291
from college days on Frank has always been chosen for some job or other
that his friends thought he was not good enough for. They have always said
that Frank was a good fellow, but that he really was not up to the job. But
each time he has gotten away with the job very well, whether it was editor
of the Harvard Crimson, or State Senator, or Assistant Secretary of the
Navy, or Governor of the State.136
This guarded praise incorporated the oft-expressed view that Roosevelt was a
lightweight but, more penetratingly, the insight that Roosevelt had been serially
successful in office, which suggested far greater capability.
Leffingwell’s exchanges with Roosevelt prior to the election had extracted
from the latter the admissions that he was in favour of the gold standard, a
balanced budget, and tariff reform, all mainstays of the Morgan economic world
view, acknowledgements that reassured. The sole divergence was on war debts,
on which Roosevelt declined to budge, despite an impassioned plea from
Leffingwell.137 Roosevelt cited the Democratic Party platform that war debts
must be paid in full and on time as justification for his implacability. What
Leffingwell failed to realize was that Roosevelt, unlike Hoover and the Morgan
partners, did not see the wellspring of the Depression in Europe. For Roosevelt,
it lay in the United States. Disagreement on war debts was not enough to banish
Morgan comfort with the president-elect. Warmth extended far enough in the
dying days of 1932 that even Whitney, the senior partner most dubious about
Roosevelt, thawed.138 If Leffingwell fretted to Lippmann early in 1933 that
Roosevelt was exhibiting no inclination to treat “with responsible leaders rather
than closet advisers,” a complaint that arose because Roosevelt had ignored
Leffingwell’s advice on how to aid the farming sector while remaining mute on
war debts, the president-elect’s cabinet choices placated.139 Although Glass
declined the post of secretary of the Treasury, the Morgan partners greeted the
Page 292
Page 292
selection of William Woodin as the new secretary of the Treasury with
approbation. Cordell Hull, the new secretary of state, was also deemed a sage
choice. Unease about some of Roosevelt’s advisors, such as Adolf Berle,
Raymond Moley, and Rexford Tugwell, was offset by the installation of Lewis
Douglas as Director of the Budget.140 The latter’s commitment to sound money
was renowned. For the Morgan partners, the auspices as they read the entrails
were favourable when they contemplated a Roosevelt future.
What did Roosevelt think of the Morgan partners? For many historians,
Roosevelt’s experimentation, malleability, and proclivity to agreement with
whomever he was speaking betray a pragmatism that facilitated, rather than
drove, the reconstruction of American capitalism. Scholars of this persuasion
have tended to see the triumphs of the New Deal as owing a great deal to the
Hoover administration and to congressional intervention rather than
Roosevelt.141 Portrayed this way, Roosevelt’s relationship with Wall Street was
responsive to transient political pressures. Roosevelt was willing to
accommodate demands from his supporters to constrain the Street and, as part of
it, J.P. Morgan & Co., but he harboured no particular animus toward 23 Wall
Street nor any especial desire to clip its power. A different interpretation has
been advanced by Eric Rauchway. He has argued that Roosevelt had a pre-
existing liberal plan for economic recovery that contemporaries well understood.
Historians have forgotten this reality, Rauchway suggests, their perception
occluded by the influential yet misinformed writings of Frances Perkins,
Roosevelt’s secretary of labour, who sketched a Roosevelt bereft of strategic
planning, the dictates of the Cold War which favoured portraits of Roosevelt that
emphasized his reactiveness, and the inaccessibility of archival material to the
great early historians of the New Deal, Arthur Schlesinger Jr. and William
Leuchtenberg.142 For Rauchway, Roosevelt meant to constrain business to save
Page 293
Page 293
capitalism from itself. Credit for doing so was Roosevelt’s, not Hoover’s.
Rauchway’s Roosevelt was wary of Wall Street, determined to bring the Morgan
bank, and the rest of the Street, to heel.
During the presidential campaign, emphatically in a speech on 21 August
1932 at Columbus, Ohio, Roosevelt had attacked “concentrated economic
power,” lamenting the “fewer than three dozen private banking houses, and
stock-selling adjuncts of commercial banks, directing the flow of American
capital,” which constituted “an economic Government of the United States.” He
promised sweeping regulation of Wall Street should he be elected. The speech,
with its Money Trust rhetoric, prompted Leffingwell to write Roosevelt. He
opened by congratulating Roosevelt on the Democratic nomination, recalled
their joint service under President Wilson, while confessing that he was
“disappointed” in the “affirmative” elements of the speech, which Leffingwell
thought smacked of Glass’s more punitive declarations. The subsequent
exchange between the two focused on banker conduct between 1927 and 1929.
Leffingwell defended bankers on the ground that little was to be gained by
assigning blame for the past; what the American people wanted to hear was how
deflation would be overcome today. This did not impress Roosevelt, whose
riposte insisted that the bankers needed to admit their failings and demonstrate a
willingness to reform. Leffingwell rejected this notion, dismissing any idea of a
“false confession.” Yet Leffingwell had admitted to Lippmann months earlier
that introspection was needed, remarking “I do believe in reform and in heart-
searching by bankers and brokers, and all of us, big and little.”143 Why
Leffingwell was unwilling to concede this point to Roosevelt is uncertain,
though he may have feared those around the president-elect whose ambition
harkened back to the days of the Pujo Committee.
Page 294
Page 294
Roosevelt understood how tightly the Morgan bank was bound to the fallen
gods of banking. This belief had in Frankfurter, an acolyte of Brandeis, an
advocate close to Roosevelt. Late in 1931 Frankfurter had written a letter to the
New York Herald Tribune arguing that banking needed to be segregated into its
principal functions. Banking promiscuity, he suggested, had led to a conflation
of savings banking, commercial banking, and investment banking, to the
weakening of the economy, and the furthering of the Depression. It was a view
with similarities to the conclusion Glass had reached about the necessity of
severing commercial banking from investment banking. Frankfurter forwarded
the letter to Roosevelt who agreed with it.144 Lamont delivered an address in
November 1932 calling for major changes to American banking but did not
answer Frankfurter’s criticism while only alluding to Roosevelt’s Columbus
speech. Lamont, while conceding that there had been isolated instances of
malfeasance responsible for bank suspensions, argued that the combination of
lax regulation by too many regulators married to the existence of too many
banks was the decisive factor in the epidemic of banking failures. The way
forward, in Lamont’s view, was to force all banks to become members of the
Federal Reserve system subject to one regulator. Advancing this idea, Lamont
dismissed notions that the Federal Reserve was the embodiment of the Money
Trust, which he claimed was a figment of overheated imaginations. Allowing
branch banking on a regional basis, ideally congruent with the twelve Federal
Reserve districts, would reduce the harmful profusion of existing banks while
propagating stronger, larger banking units. Privately, Leffingwell bitingly laid
the blame for the weakness induced by too many banks on “the wicked
cowardice of our politicians, and their subservience to the views of the stupid
and numerous, in preference to the few and intelligent, that forced us into the
great storm in a flotilla of canoes instead of a few 50 thousand ton liners.”145
Page 295
Page 295
Lamont’s speech, publicized widely, drew praise in quarters that typically
harboured suspicions of the Morgan bank. The New Republic thought it a
welcome sign that the more enlightened elements in banking understood that
tighter regulation was coming to the banking sector.146 Yet it did not address
Frankfurter’s desire for segregation, nor did it change his conviction that the
Morgan bank wielded too much authority.
Roosevelt was aware that many whose support he needed thought as
Frankfurter did. On 11 January 1933 Roosevelt met with Ed Coblentz, a New
York–based editor for the Hearst papers. Coblentz transmitted Hearst’s view that
bankers, stingy with their loans, were crippling recovery. In reply, Roosevelt
promised that his cabinet would be free of banking influence: “There will be no
one in it who knows the way to 23 Wall Street.”147 Days later, meeting Hiram
Johnson to offer him the position of secretary of the interior, Roosevelt was
treated to an outburst against J.P. Morgan & Co. Johnson made the case to
Roosevelt that, “[d]uring these past twelve years, our foreign affairs have been
manipulated, operated, managed, directed and controlled by Morgan and
Company.” Mollifying Johnson, Roosevelt pledged that his secretary of state
would be free from Morgan taint.148 The same day that Roosevelt met Johnson,
he urged Glass to accept his offer of the position of secretary of the Treasury.
Raymond Moley, who was delegated by Roosevelt to handle the discussions
with Glass, discovered that Glass wanted Leffingwell as his deputy, a desire that
he relayed to Roosevelt. Roosevelt responded, “Make it perfectly clear to him
that, so far as subordinates go, we simply can’t tie up with ‘23’.”149
Veto of Leffingwell aside, there is little to suggest that Roosevelt was
preparing to tackle J.P. Morgan & Co., at least not before the explosive
revelations accompanying the interrogation of Mitchell of National City Bank by
Ferdinand Pecora in late February 1933 demonstrated the scale and scope of
Page 296
Page 296
banking abuses to a fascinated and horrified American public.150 Certainly,
Moley and his fellow Brain Trusters, Berle and Tugwell, were not partisans of
Brandeis or Frankfurter; their thinking about reform was varied, eschewing the
tropes of the Money Trust in favour of projects devoted to rebalancing an
American economy distorted by industrial capitalism.151 Insofar as J.P. Morgan
& Co. was concerned, Roosevelt was prepared to wait on events, which suggests
that Rauchway’s argument is too rigid.
Irrespective of his advisors’ competing intents, or Roosevelt’s desires, the
Morgan partners did not see in him a threat to reform Wall Street. Much more
pressing to the Corner than fears Roosevelt might be unsound were two issues.
The first was the poisoned chalice of war debts. The Lausanne Conference had
left unsettled whether Britain and France would meet their scheduled war debt
payments to the United States. Lamont’s efforts in November and December
1932 to broker a compromise – Britain and France were supposed to pay their
outstanding amount due on 15 December to the United States – illustrated the
fatigue in London, Paris, and Washington with both the question and Morgan
engagement. Parker Gilbert and Lamont interlaced conversations with Norman
and Morgan Grenfell in London with soundings with Hoover and Stimson on
whether British payment of the 15 December instalment to the United States was
necessary. Gently, Whigham made it clear to his New York counterparts that
discussions were no longer a matter for the Treasury or the Bank of England.
The Foreign Office was overseeing talks and was disinclined to listen to Morgan
counsel. Hoover’s attempts to draw Roosevelt on the matter failed signally,
leaving all parties, in Lamont’s words, “exhausted, erotic and embittered” with
the struggle. Despite Lamont lobbying Roosevelt early in the new year,
Leffingwell was more convinced than ever that nothing would be gained from
continuing to talk about war debts. While the British had made their payment in
Page 297
Page 297
December, France had not and Leffingwell thought the prospects of ever
obtaining it dim.152 Faced with Roosevelt’s evident unwillingness to forgive war
debts, the Morgan partners dropped the matter though it did not change their
understanding that full economic recovery required a resolution. Roosevelt and
the Brain Trust did not share the Morgan conviction that the Depression had
arisen from World War I and the complications that ensued. Their outlook was
fundamentally American, seeking American solutions to American Depression.
The war debts question was, if not immaterial, of little import in the eyes of the
president-elect.
The second question was the direction of the American economy.
Leffingwell was cautious on how the economy might fare in 1933. Prompted by
growing signs of a flagging economy post-election, he had written Harrison
before Christmas, worried about the direction of Federal Reserve policy. He
feared that Harrison’s commitment to open-market operations was not whole-
hearted. Leffingwell argued that the open-market policy followed in the spring
had done “an immense amount of good,” and now was not the time to forego it.
Leffingwell pointed out that reserve bank credit had dropped about 10 per cent
since July 1932 and the total money supply was roughly where it had been at the
outset of 1932. He urged that there be no “weakening” in fighting deflation.153
Lamont was more optimistic. He judged that deflation had reached its end,
assuming that the Federal Reserve continued open-market operations. Lamont
told Dawes he thought “we are finished with banking panics.”154 There was also
confidence in the Corner that the firm was positioned to cope with whatever
storms might blow. Jack Morgan told Grenfell in December 1932,
We are closing the year with a sigh of relief, and I have the most agreeable
feeling that all of the houses now are in excellent condition, financially
completely sound, and know where they stand. If among us we cannot, with
Page 298
Page 298
sufficient capital, the intelligence we have among the partners, and our
standing in the community, make a decent living, I shall be very much
surprised.155
He was to be surprised. The gradual, then rapid, implosion of the American
financial system in February and March 1933 caught J.P. Morgan & Co. flat-
footed. Both Parker Gilbert, now “economic advisor” to the Treasury, and
Leffingwell participated in meetings in January 1933 that canvassed policy,
ranging from balancing the budget, to Treasury purchases of securities, to
Federal Reserve open-market operations, and war debts. Little consideration was
given to the idea of either devaluing the gold content of the dollar or leaving
gold.156 Leffingwell and Parker Gilbert continued to insist to the Morgan houses
in London and Paris well into February 1933 that the gold standard was
indispensable, much to the relief of Morgan & Cie. where gold still ruled and the
irritation of Morgan Grenfell where it did not. Both men were worried by the
fragility of the economy, but until mid-February 1933 this concern was muted,
superseded by the extraordinary effort that the partners were making in
preparation for Lamont’s scheduled appearance at the Senate Finance Committee
hearings on the origins and course of the Depression. Though the partners
produced a lengthy analysis which stressed the global nature of the Depression,
the centrality of the world war in its origins, and the “intense and alarming
nationalism” worldwide for its continuation, in the end their work did not see the
light of day until June 1933. Lamont, following Leffingwell’s advice, declined to
appear before the committee, on the grounds that public confidence was at a low
ebb and, with the Roosevelt administration days from taking office, presenting
Morgan ideas to a new secretary of the Treasury made more sense than testifying
to a lame-duck Senate Finance Committee.157
Page 299
Page 299
The banking crisis in Michigan in February 1933, which overlapped with
Morgan preparations for the Senate hearing, was dismissed initially as a local
phenomenon by J.P. Morgan & Co. Difficulties in Detroit were seen as
occasioned by “incompetent” management in the two leading banks in the state,
by the idiosyncratic nature of the Michigan economy, dominated by the
automobile industry, and by the rivalry between Henry Ford and Couzens that
had frustrated effective response. There was no need to panic, New York
reassured the London and Paris houses, for Detroit “is not a great railroad and
trading center like New York or Chicago.” Such confidence was soon shown to
be misplaced, as over the ensuing days twenty-five states declared a banking
holiday. Leffingwell confessed to Carter in Paris on 1 March that “[t]he Detroit
thing has spread as we had no notion it would from State to State, and it gives us
grave concern.”158
Belatedly, the partners realized the scope of the unfolding disaster. The last
days of the Hoover administration saw Parker Gilbert, Leffingwell, and Lamont
make frantic efforts. Over the weekend of 25–26 February, Parker Gilbert and
Leffingwell met with Mills, Woodin, Harrison, and Meyer to discuss what might
be done. It seems that Parker Gilbert and Leffingwell advanced the notion of
direct Treasury or RFC deposits into banks to ensure their solidity. Mills, who
had emerged as the most forceful administration exponent for action, raised this
possibility with Senators Glass and Joe Robinson, the Democratic majority
leader. Neither man was prepared to agree to this or any other plan until
Congress reconvened.159 Lamont had by then implored Roosevelt to sanction
direct RFC deposits as a part of a package of measures he recommended to the
president-elect on 27 February. Lamont pressed Roosevelt to cooperate with
Hoover to enable emergency legislation to end the moratoria, arguing that the
spectre of societal breakdown arising from restless urban populations deprived
Page 300
Page 300
of money was too ominous to countenance. He urged the president-elect to allow
Federal Reserve banks to buy government securities without limit to provide
needed credit. Lamont pointed out to Roosevelt that the federal government
needed to raise $1 billion by 15 March, an onerous task unless confidence was
restored.160 Roosevelt had no intention of heeding Lamont’s plea, as he refused
to deal with Hoover, secure in the knowledge that the banking debacle was
Hoover’s in popular estimation with his own inauguration just days away.
Lamont’s conversations with Woodin on 2–3 March tried anew to enlist
Roosevelt, asking him to persuade Roosevelt to issue a statement condemning
new moratoria. The partners blamed the spread of banking moratoria upon the
action of Congress in publicizing the extent of assistance from the RFC to
troubled banks. This, in association with the revelations emerging about the
conduct of National City Bank, had undermined confidence. Customers had
rushed to withdraw their money. While New York was sound, the strain was
mounting. Insuring deposits, as had been proposed, was an idea that the Morgan
partners rejected as unwise. Lamont conceded that given the current strain on the
gold reserve of the Federal Reserve it might be necessary to suspend gold
payments, which would be regrettable but not fatal. This acknowledgement,
made on 2 March, was prompted by Leffingwell. Lamont, Leffingwell, and
Whitney were among the assembled bankers gathered with Governor Herbert H.
Lehman when he opted to declare a moratorium on the night of 3–4 March. To
the end the Morgan partners were dissenters, arguing against this step before
giving way.161
Their counsel was now less and less heard. The key figures in the
discussions on saving the banking system were holdovers from the Hoover
administration – men such as Arthur Ballantine, the under-secretary of the
Treasury, and Mills, intermixed with Harrison and Meyer of the Federal Reserve,
Page 301
Page 301
while Berle and Woodin represented the Roosevelt administration. The New
York banker most involved was George W. Davison of Central Hanover Trust.
Francis Awalt, who as the Acting Comptroller of the Currency in the Hoover
administration played an important role in the drafting of the Emergency
Banking Act, recalled: “Conference continued on March 6. Mr. Mills was more
in the background but in close touch; Parker Gilbert was still more in the
background, and it became increasingly evident that a J.P. Morgan partner was
not wanted around.”162
*****
As the Depression unfolded, the Morgan partners were fearful, self-interested,
and reactive, but they were neither cowed nor passive. They were not Agnes
Meyer’s small-minded New York banker. Their posture in confronting the
Depression was conditioned by the bank’s financial fortunes. J.P. Morgan &
Co.’s balance sheet was riven by the events of 1931 and then savaged once more
between January and March 1933. Would a stronger, more financially flexible
J.P. Morgan & Co. have been more adventurous in confronting the Depression?
Perhaps their effort to aid private banks would have lasted longer than 1930–31,
but the partners knew that they had neither the influence nor the means that myth
bestowed on them to check the Depression. Crucially, the Morgan partners did
not feel that it was their responsibility to lead the struggle against the
Depression. That was the duty of the Federal Reserve. It might be suggested that
this abdication represented a form of irresponsibility endemic on the Street. A
more nuanced perspective is that Wall Street itself was not of one mind, its
denizens listening to more than one voice. J.P. Morgan & Co. was the leader of
the Street, but its followers were scattered.
It did not help that Morgan remedies for the Depression managed to be both
orthodox and incoherent. Leffingwell was insistent that deflation must be
Page 302
Page 302
checked, but he shied away from any policy that might suggest inflation,
favouring what he called a “middle of the road course.” As the abyss yawned on
2 March 1933, J.P. Morgan & Co. worried about “federal action which it might
be difficult later on to get rid of and the workings of which might lead to
inflation upon a considerable scale.” Plaintively, Leffingwell bemoaned to
Lamont in April 1933 that J.P. Morgan & Co. were seen as “deflationists.”163
The failure to impress upon the Federal Reserve, upon the financial community,
and upon the Hoover administration that the Morgan partners regarded deflation
as the existential threat was in some degree the outcome of Leffingwell’s
insistence on a balanced budget, on government expenditure cuts, and on forcing
American prices and wages downward to match lower world levels. He never
appreciated that these remedies might contribute, rightly, to the impression that
J.P. Morgan & Co. were “deflationists” even while his advocacy of arresting
deflation was fierce and sincere.
Confusion over the genuineness of Morgan commitment to the struggle
against deflation was exacerbated by the Morgan analysis of the origins and
course of the Depression. The resolute insistence on its gestation in World War I
and the consequent necessity of redressing war debts and reparations as
preconditions to American recovery suited a banking house with associated
firms in London and Paris. This insistence meant that the Morgan view of events
in the United States was impaired. On 22 February 1933 Leffingwell discussed
Michigan with Woodin prior to the metastasizing of the moratorium crisis. He
told Lamont, “[t]he Detroit problem seems to be still very difficult, and the
general situation in the provinces is I gather bothersome.” Days later the Morgan
partners cabled Morgan Grenfell that “we are wholly puzzled as to the
immediate trend of things in the banking world outside of New York.”164
Beyond, they knew little of what was transpiring in the “provinces,” a weakness
Page 303
Page 303
the costs of which were demonstrated graphically in February and March 1933
when rolling bank moratoria stunned the partners. Morgan internationalism
reinforced Morgan myopia in understanding the Depression at home.
Equally striking was the contentious relationship with the Hoover
administration. The Morgan partners wanted the Hoover administration to
master the Depression. Regrettably, Hoover was not up to the job in the eyes of
the Corner. He needed Morgan guidance. Hubris was at work here, for plainly
the Morgan regard for Hoover ignored his dedication, his intelligence, his
willingness to experiment, while emphasizing the flaws in his character.
Hoover’s own suspicion of J.P. Morgan & Co. and more generally Wall Street
grew under pressure in 1931–32 so that by the summer of 1932 tensions on
issues such as short-selling had strained the tie between the White House and the
Corner to near breaking. Hoover’s defeat in the presidential election in
November 1932 provided some relief but the prolonged interregnum required
ongoing interaction. Tellingly, as 1933 progressed, the Morgan partners were
more in contact with Mills and his officials than Hoover.
This helps explain why Hoover’s defeat and Roosevelt’s triumph were not
an occasion for gloom at J.P. Morgan & Co. Parker Gilbert and Leffingwell, the
Morgan economists, had decided that Roosevelt was preferable, while none of
the Republican partners shed tears for Hoover’s loss. The Morgan partners
anticipated that Roosevelt would not differ markedly in his policy prescriptions
from Hoover. What would be distinctive was the climate of the Roosevelt
administration, which would be sunnier. They did not expect that their voices
would receive any less of a hearing from the incoming Roosevelt administration.
The events of February and March 1933 suggested otherwise. While J.P. Morgan
& Co. beseeched Roosevelt to act in the week before his inauguration, he
ignored these overtures. Similarly, the drafting of what became the Emergency
Page 304
Page 304
Banking Act found Parker Gilbert shunted aside as the meaningful work was
conducted by others.
Yet the Morgan bank had already taken a major stride toward Roosevelt
before his inauguration, when Lamont told Woodin that the gold standard might
have to be suspended. This concession demarcated the moment at which the
Morgan bank deviated from the true religion of monetary orthodoxy. There had
been hints before, notably in December 1931 when the Morgan partners feared
sweeping defaults of governmental debts, that the partners would jettison the
gold standard if the circumstances were dire enough. This was the case in March
1933. They were driven to this admission from fear that rippling banking
moratoria threatened American capitalism. They could see the effects of
deflation in the contraction of their own balance sheet. Unquestionably, the
partners hoped that the gold standard would be restored quickly, but if it was not,
they were prepared to move forward. If capitalism was to be saved from crisis,
then the gold standard must be forfeited.
1 Jack Morgan to the Marquess of Linlithgow, 4 January 1932, TML, JPM,
Box 93.
2 “Witchcraft,” American Bankers Association Journal, vol. 24, June 1932.
3 Agnes Meyer diary, 6 March 1933, Eugene Meyer, CUL, COHC, p. A 94.
4 Donald Warren, Radio Priest: Charles Coughlin, the Father of Hate Radio,
New York: The Free Press, 1996, pp. 39–40.
5 John P. Frey, secretary-treasurer of the American Federation of Labor (AFL)
metal trades department testifying to a Senate Judiciary sub-committee in late
January 1933, New York Times, 27 January 1933, p. 2. Senator Elmer Thomas
to J.P. Morgan & Co., 15 February 1933, TML, JPM, Box 46.
Page 305
Page 305
6 Galbraith noted sardonically, “Moreover, implicit in hue and cry was the
notion that somewhere on Wall Street – possibly at Number 23 and possibly
on an obscure corridor in one of the high buildings – there was a deus ex
machina who somehow engineered the boom and bust.” Galbraith, The Great
Crash, pp. 3–4.
7 W. Randolph Burgess, “The Banker and His Public,” Banking, vol. 32, no.
1, July 1939. Burgess was at that time vice-chairman of the board of the
National City Bank. Banking was the renamed ABA journal.
8 A recent summary is Luca Pensiero and Romain Restout, 3 December 2018,
“The Gold Standard and the Great Depression: A Dynamic General
Equilibrium Model,” Institut de Recherches Économiques et Sociales de
l’Université catholique de Louvain, Discussion Paper, pp. 2–4,
https://sites.uclouvain.be/econ/DP/IRES/2018016.pdf. For scholarly
condemnation, Kennedy, The Banking Crisis of 1933, pp. 20–21; Harris
Gaylord Warren, Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression, New York:
Oxford University Press, 1959. Reprint Greenwood Press, 1980, p. 140;
Romasco, The Poverty of Abundance, pp. 81–85. Agnes Meyer, 29 April
1932, 11 August 1932, A 79, Eugene Meyer, CUL, COHC, p. A 39.
9 Jack Morgan to the Marquess of Linlithgow, 4 January 1932, TML, JPM,
Box 93. Linlithgow, Victor Alexander John Hope, the 2nd Marquess of
Linlithgow, “Hopie,” as Jack Morgan called him, was a Tory grandee,
politician, and between 1936 and 1943 the Viceroy of India.
10 Wigmore, The Crash, pp. 235–36, 285–86.
11 Leffingwell Memorandum, 2 April 1932, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 8,
Folder 174.
Page 306
Page 306
12 Charles W. Calomiris and Barry Wilson, “Bank Capital and Portfolio
Management: The 1930s ‘Capital Crunch’ and the Scramble to Shed Risk’,”
The Journal of Business, vol. 77, no. 3 (2004), p. 435; Carosso, Investment
Banking in America, p. 408.
13 A New York Times analysis of 24 May 1933, p. 16, citing “financial circles”
attributed the massive drop in deposits to withdrawals by the three
governments mentioned. A passage in the testimony of Leonhard Keyes at the
Pecora hearings in May 1933 suggests that the firm made profits of $3 million
to $4 million in 1931. This must have been in the first half of the year when
there was some good news in the markets. Keyes, in response to questioning
by Senator James Byrnes, Pecora Committee, 24 May 1933, p. 83.
14 Charles D. Dickey, formerly of Brown Brothers Harriman, was admitted as
a partner in Drexel & Co. in Philadelphia on 2 January 1932. Dickey would
eventually move to New York in 1937, see Chapter 8.
15 Broker’s loans, which were call loans, peaked on 4 October 1929 at $8,525
million. At the nadir, on 30 June 1932, broker’s loans totalled $335 million.
Federal Reserve Board, Banking and Monetary Statistics, 1919–41, vol. 1,
table 139, p. 494.
16 Carosso, Investment Banking in America, pp. 307, 317.
17 Lewis, America’s Stake, pp. 392–93.
18 Federal Reserve Board, Banking and Monetary Statistics, 1919–41, vol. 1,
table 137, p. 487.
19 Dean Jay to Carter, 6 July 1931, TML, MBEP, Series 5, Carter.
20 JPM to MG, 13 May 1932, TML, CP, Box 19, Folder Morgan & Co – MG
& Co. Misc. Priv. Telegs 14 April to 13 August 1932. This suggests that J.P.
Page 307
Page 307
Morgan & Co. acceptances were on the order of $10 million to $15 million.
21 Federal Reserve Board, Banking and Monetary Statistics, 1919–41, vol. 1,
table 127, p. 466. In December 1929 acceptances were $1,732 million, $1,413
million in May 1931, and $681 million by August 1932.
22 In 1929 NYSE share volume was 1.125 billion shares; in 1932, 425 million.
Historical Statistics of the United States from Colonial Times to 1960, table
series X, p. 659.
23 See Appendix 1.
24 United States of America before the Securities and Exchange Commission
in the Matter of Richard Whitney et al., testimony of Francis D. Bartow, 20
April 1938, vol. 2, pp. 570–71. The complete hearings may be found at The
Hathi Trust: https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/001740544.
25 Pecora Committee, 24 May 1933, p. 117.
26 TML, Ledgers and Journals J.P. Morgan & Co., Private Journal 6.
27 Jack Morgan to Junius Morgan, 29 September 1931, TML, JPM, Box 38
A/34 – Cables exchanged while in London and Paris 1931.
28 Lamont to Edwin F. Gay, TWL to Edwin F. Gay, 30 June 1931, BL, TWL,
Series I, Box 57, Folder 9, National Bureau of Economic Research, rejecting
Gay’s request for a continuation of the Morgan donation of $1,000. The
discussion among Lamont, his secretary E.T. Sanders, and John Gregg of the
International Chamber in February–March 1933 may be found in BL, TWL,
Series I, Box 18/5, Folder Chamber of Commerce US. After Gregg’s plea, it
was agreed that the firm would furnish $4,000.
29 Hinton et al., “Some Comments about the Morgan Bank,” p. 35.
Page 308
Page 308
30 Banking and Monetary Statistics, 1914–1941, part I, p. 283 for the 1929
figure; Elmus Wicker, The Banking Panics of the Great Depression, New
York: Cambridge University Press, 1996, p. 32.
31 Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary History, pp. 342–43, 351–57.
32 For differing recent assessments, Morris, A Rabble of Dead Money, pp.
149–51, drawing on the work of Temin, White, and Wicker, among others,
accepts the view that the banking crises had little to do with propagating the
Depression, save for the 1933 banking crisis. Michael Bordo and John
Landon-Lane, “The Banking Panics in the United States in the 1930s: Some
Lessons for Today,” in Nicholas Crafts and Peter Fearon, eds., The Great
Depression of the 1930s: Lessons for Today, New York: Oxford University
Press, 2013, pp. 188–211, back the Friedman and Schwartz argument.
33 Joseph L. Lucia, “The Failure of the Bank of the United States: A
Reappraisal, ” Explorations in Economic History, vol. 22 (1985), pp. 402–16;
Friedman and Schwartz, “The Failure of the Bank of the United States: A
Reappraisal. A Reply.” Explorations in Economic History, vol. 23 (1986), pp.
199–204; Anthony Patrick O’Brien, “The Failure of the Bank of the United
States: A Defense of Joseph Lucia,” Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking,
vol. 24, no. 3 (1992), pp. 374–84; Paul B. Trescott, “The Failure of the Bank
of the United States, 1930: A Rejoinder to Anthony Patrick O’Brien,” Journal
of Money, Credit, and Banking, vol. 24, no. 3 (1992), pp. 384–99. Friedman’s
Newsweek comment is in vol. 84, 16 November 1974, p. 74. In their reply to
Lucia in Explorations in Economic History, Friedman and Schwartz, pp.
201–02, amplified the comment about Jack Morgan’s anti-Semitism. Chernow
concurred with Friedman, The House of Morgan, pp. 325–27.
34 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 12 December 1930, TML, CP, Box
19, Folder Morgan & Co. Misc. Priv. Telegs 27 October 1930 to 24 April
1931.
Page 309
Page 309
35 Jack Morgan to Countess of Buxton, 23 March 1933, TML, JPM, Box 94,
Folder 103. More generally, Chernow, The House of Morgan, pp. 214–17.
36 Pak, Gentleman Bankers, chap. 3. Pak has a careful, convincing study of
Morgan anti-Semitism.
37 Carter to Harry S. Morgan, 30 August 1932, J.P. Morgan & Co. to Carter, 2
September 1932, TML, MBEP, Box 15 – Cables sent, 1 July to 30 September
1932.
38 Lamont to Grenfell, 24 December 1934, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 112,
Folder 6.
39 Thomas S. Lamont to Grenfell, 30 December 1930, TML, CP, Box 9,
Morgan & Co. – Banking Situation and Crisis, 1930–33, File 2.
40 Lamont memorandum, 1 June 1934, “J.P. Morgan & Co. and Their
Relations to the Public,” BL, TWL, Series V, Box 214, Folder 13.
41 Manufacturer’s Trust and Public National Bank & Trust, which had been in
discussions with the Bank of the United States, were admitted to membership
in the New York Clearing House on 11 December 1930, bringing the total to
twenty-one.
42 Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary History, p. 310n9. See Broderick’s
testimony, 12 May 1932, New York Times, p. 15.
43 Reynolds, CUL, COHC, pp. 145–49. Reynolds claimed that he warned
Hoover on 2 December 1931 that the Bank of the United States was going to
fail and that at the crucial meeting on 10 December 1930 held at the Federal
Reserve he successfully fended off Harrison’s desire to rescue the Bank.
44 Lamont to Dawes, 5 January 1933, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 91/11.
Page 310
Page 310
45 Leffingwell to Lamont, 5 May 1943, YUL, RCL, 1030, Box 4, Folder 100.
It is noteworthy that here Leffingwell laid the blame for the Depression at the
feet of the Federal Reserve. During the early 1930s his analysis was different.
46 Lamont to Ochs, 30 January 1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 120, Folder 21.
In support of this letter, Lamont included a five-page memorandum written by
Bartow who had participated in two meetings regarding the Chelsea Bank.
Bartow argued that the Clearing House banks had behaved appropriately, that
Chelsea was neither a member of the Clearing House nor of the Federal
Reserve system, that there had long been doubts about its management, and
that the pressure of time and the unknown risks in extending additional aid
were determinant. Ochs was not convinced, as his reply to Lamont of 2
February 1931 showed.
47 Lamont to Eleanor Lamont, 6 November 1930, in Lamont, A Life in Letters,
p. 110.
48 Bell, “The Decline of the Money Barons,” p. 154.
49 Of the $10 million, J.P. Morgan & Co. loaned $2.5 million, Chase National
Bank $2.5 million, First National Bank of Boston $1.25 million, Bankers
Trust $1 million, Guaranty Trust $1 million, National Shawmut Bank of
Boston $750,000, First National Bank of New York $500,000, Merchants
National Bank of Boston $250,000, and Second National Bank of Boston
$250,000. TML, CP, Box 30, Morgan & Co. – Assistance to KP & Co., 1931.
50 Carosso, Investment Banking in America, pp. 308–17 has a full discussion.
51 On Brown Brothers, see John A. Kouwenhoven, Partners in Banking: An
Historical Portrait of a Great Private Bank Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.
1818–1968. New York: Privately Printed, 1968, p. 16.
Page 311
Page 311
52 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 12 December 1930, TML, CP, Box
19, Folder Morgan & Co. Misc. Priv. Telegs 27 October 1930 to 24 April
1931; Morgan Grenfell to J.P. Morgan & Co., 19 December 1930, TML, CP,
Box 9, Morgan & Co. – Banking Situation and Crisis, 1930–1933, File 2,
inquiring about Goldman, Sachs; Thomas S. Lamont to Grenfell, 30
December 1930, TML, CP, Box 9, Morgan & Co. – Banking Situation and
Crisis, 1930–33, File 2.
53 Carosso, Investment Banking in America, p. 320.
54 Lamont to Jack Morgan, 23 September 1932, Jack Morgan to Lamont, 7
October 1932, Leonhard Keyes to Jack Morgan, 18 October 1932, Lamont to
Jack Morgan, 26 October 1932, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 108, Folder 15; Jack
Morgan to Arthur Curtiss James, 18 December 1936, TML, JPM, Box 44,
Folder 6.
55 Employment figures from Historical Statistics of the United States from
Colonial Times to 1957, table Q 141–152, p. 437; stock total from Wigmore,
The Great Crash, p. 34; for the FRBNY estimate, Harrison to Hoover, 15
December 1931, HHPL, HH, Subject Files, Box 181, Federal Reserve Board
Correspondence 1931, enclosing a memo of 8 December 1931.
56 American Bankers Association Journal, vol. 23, June 1931, p. 968.
57 “Web of Wall Street Assailed by Norris,” New York Times, 24 February
1933, C 11.
58 On 1 January 1931 the brothers created Terminal Shares Inc., a company
vested with real estate properties in Kansas City and St. Joseph. Terminal
Shares then issued five-year, 5.5 per cent bonds secured by its stock. The
Missouri Pacific railroad, another Van Sweringen property, was given the
option of purchasing the Terminal Shares properties, a right for which it
Page 312
Page 312
agreed to pay $1.6 million per year in four installments of $400,000.
Subsequently, a Morgan-led syndicate offered $61.2 million of fifty-year
Missouri Pacific bonds at 5 per cent to the market in January 1931.
59 The best place to follow what is a complex story lies in the Wheeler
Committee Report, Part I & II, December 1936. Part II deals with the
Missouri Pacific and Terminal Shares Contracts. A table of the demand loans
advanced to the Missouri Pacific as well as the breakdown of the Morgan,
Guaranty Trust, and Kuhn, Loeb & Co. participation is in Exhibit 273, pp.
1239–40.
60 Memo, 31 October 1930, BL, TWL, Series II, 98/17; Lamont to Hoover, 8
November 1930, 19 November 1930, and telephone message 25 November
1930, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98/18.
61 Lamont to O.P. Van Sweringen, 7 October 1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box
126, Folder 12; “I.C.C. May Favor Four-Party Plan,” Wall Street Journal, 2
October 1931, p. 12.
62 Lamont to Hoover, 8 October 1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98/19.
63 Lamont to Hoover, 28 August 1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98/19.
64 James Stuart Olson, Herbert Hoover and the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation, 1931–1933, Ames, IA: Iowa State University Press, 1977, p. 24;
Arthur H. Vandenberg to Herbert Hoover, 10 and 23 September 1931, HHPL,
HH, Box 213, Vandenberg, Senator Arthur H. 1930–33. William Barber, From
New Era to New Deal: Herbert Hoover, the Economists, and American
Economic Policy, 1921–1933, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1985,
pp. 125–38, argues that Hoover abandoned voluntarism between October 1931
and early 1932.
Page 313
Page 313
65 A copy of Hoover’s statement to the assembled bankers may be found in
HHPL, HH, Subject Files, Box 184, Financial Matters Banking and
Bankruptcy Correspondence 1931 September–December; Harrison to Hoover,
7 October 1931, CUL, George L. Harrison papers, Box 24, Binder 53; Lamont
to Hoover, 7 October 1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98, Folder 19.
66 Hoover to Lamont, 20 November 1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98, Folder
20.
67 Harrison to Hoover, 15 December 1931, HHPL, HH, FRBNY papers, Box
2/2010.1; Memo, Banking Situation in the Second District, HHPL, HH,
Subject Files, Box 181/Federal Reserve Board Correspondence 1931,
September–December; Olson, Herbert Hoover and the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation, 1931–1933, pp. 28–29.
68 Jesse Jones, Fifty Billion Dollars: My Thirteen Years with the RFC
1932–1945, New York: The Chronicle Company, 1951. Reprint New York:
De Capo Press, 1975.
69 The RFC lent the Missouri Pacific $12.8 million, $5.8 million of which was
transferred to J.P. Morgan & Co. The Couzens–Lamont exchange is in BL,
TWL, Series II, Box 125/24, Lamont to Couzens, 31 March 1932, Couzens to
Lamont, 2 April 1932, Lamont to Couzens, 6 April 1932. Lamont’s
memorandum to his partners is 15 April 1932 in the same folder. For the
Couzens bill, see “ICC Again Opposes Loans to Pay Banks,” New York
Times, 2 April 1932, p. 3 and the account in Jones, Fifty Billion Dollars, pp.
121–24.
70 Anderson to JAM de Sanchez, 1 June 1932, TML, MBEP, Series 5,
Anderson Arthur M.
Page 314
Page 314
71 A copy of the speech, given on 24 April 1931, is in YUL, RCL, Series I,
Box 9, Folder 183.
72 Leffingwell to Parker Gilbert, 15 September 1931, YUL, RCL, Series I,
Box 3/63.
73 On Keynes and the MacMillan Report, see Robert Skidelsky, John
Maynard Keynes, Vol. 2: The Economist As Saviour, London: Macmillan,
1992, pp. 343–62; for Keynes’ criticism of the May report, p. 394.
74 Leffingwell to Lamont, 29 August 1931, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4,
Folder 95. Leffingwell to Parker Gilbert, 18 November 1931, YUL, RCL,
Series I, Box 3, Folder 63. Leffingwell did not always dismiss Keynes.
Writing to Lamont in 1932 he commended Keynes’ article in the January issue
of Vanity Fair on bank values and money.
75 Leffingwell to Lippmann, 30 December 1931, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 5,
Folder 108.
76 A total of 1,860 banks containing deposits of $1.449 billion failed between
1 September 1931 and January 1932. Friedman and Schwartz, Monetary
History, p. 317.
77 Quoted in Ronald Steel, Walter Lippmann and the American Century, New
Brunswick, NJ: Transaction Publishers, 1999, p. 289.
78 Romasco, The Poverty of Abundance, pp. 79–80; Leffingwell to Lippmann,
30 October 1931, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 5, Folder 108.
79 Leffingwell to Lippmann, 6 November 1931, Lippmann to Leffingwell, 10
November 1931, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 5, Folder 108.
Page 315
Page 315
80 Leffingwell to Lamont, 13 November 1931, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 103,
Folder 15.
81 Leffingwell would elaborate on this notion, stressing that Federal Reserve
open-market operations should play a central role in halting the decline in
wholesale prices, offsetting contraction in member bank credit through
injection of central bank credit. Leffingwell to Lippmann, 18 December 1931,
YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 5, Folder 108.
82 Lippmann to Leffingwell, 31 December 1931, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 5,
Folder 108.
83 Leffingwell to Lippmann, 8 December 1932, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 5,
Folder 109; Leffingwell to Grenfell, 29 April 1933, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box
3, Folder 69.
84 For shrewd observations on the frequency of the war metaphor as the
Depression tightened, Romasco, The Poverty of Abundance, pp. 175–81.
85 Leffingwell to Harrison, 4 January 1932, Leffingwell to Meyer, 9 January
1932, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 3, Folder 73. The 9 January letter was shown
to Harrison.
86 Harrison to Leon Fraser, 16 January 1932, George L. Harrison papers,
CUL, Box 2, Binder 3.
87 Romasco, The Poverty of Abundance, pp. 195–96.
88 Meltzer, A History of the Federal Reserve, p. 354.
89 Leffingwell to Carter, 30 January 1932, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 1, Folder
17.
Page 316
Page 316
90 Rixey Smith and Norman Beasley, Carter Glass: A Biography, New York:
Longmans, Green and Co., 1939, pp. 304–6; George J. Benston, The
Separation of Commercial and Investment Banking: The Glass-Steagall Act
Revisited and Reconsidered – A Retrospective of the Pecora Committee,
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1990, pp. 216–17.
91 Leffingwell to Glass, 8 January 1932, Leffingwell to Glass, 3 February
1932, Leffingwell to Glass 8 February 1932, Glass to Leffingwell, 9 February
1932, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 3, Folder 66. Leffingwell’s fears were
heartfelt; Anderson, some months later, remarked that the bill “frightened
almost everyone to death.” Anderson to de Sanchez, 5 May 1932, TML,
MBEP, Series 5/Anderson Arthur M.
92 Lamont to Leffingwell memo, 27 January 1932, BL, TWL, Series II, Box
103, Folder 15, discussing Walcott and Harrison.
93 Lamont to McMullin, 18 January 1932, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 107,
Folder 2.
94 Anderson to de Sanchez, 5 May 1932, TML, MBEP, Series 5/Anderson
Arthur M.
95 Meltzer, A History of the Federal Reserve, pp. 358–63.
96 Carosso, Investment Banking in America, 322–23; Leffingwell to Lamont,
YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4, Folder 95.
97 Lamont notes on Washington visit, 16 March 1932, BL, TWL, Series V,
Box 211, Folder 6.
98 Memorandum, 1 April 1932, Lamont to Partners, 15 April 1932, BL, TWL,
Series II, Box 98, Folder 21.
Page 317
Page 317
99 Wigmore, The Crash, pp. 331–32. The record low of 41 was reached on 8
July 1932.
100 Hoover to Lamont, 2 April 1932, Lamont to Hoover, 8 April 1932, BL,
TWL, Series II, Box 116, Folder 7.
101 Hoover to Harrison, 22 March 1932, Harrison to Hoover, 22 April 1932,
Hoover to Harrison, 26 April 1932, Harrison to Hoover, 3 May 1932, CUL,
George L. Harrison papers, Box 46, Hoover, Herbert.
102 Dean Jay to Carter, 1 April 1932, TML, MBEP, Series 5, Carter, Bernard
S; Harry S. Morgan to Egan, 2 April 1932, TML, Martin Egan papers, Box 50,
Folder Morgan, Henry Sturgis; Allen Forbes to Jack Morgan, 14 April 1932,
Jack Morgan to Forbes, 19 April 1932, TML, JPM, Box 49, Folder 9.
103 Leffingwell to Partners, 9 April 1932, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 6, Folder
127. Kennedy has observed that docility rather than revolution struck many
contemporaries as dominating. Kennedy, Freedom from Fear, pp. 89–90.
104 Leffingwell to Lippman, 13 April 1932, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 5,
Folder 109.
105 Ellis Hawley, The Great War and the Search for a Modern Order: A
History of the American People and Their Institutions, 1917–1933, New York:
St. Martin’s Press 1979, pp. 199–201. “Master Planning,” Commercial and
Financial Chronicle, vol. 132, 6 June 1932, pp. 4126–28.
106 Lawrence Dennis, Is Capitalism Doomed?, New York: Harper Brothers,
1932.
107 Jack Morgan to Morris Whitridge, 19 May 1932, TML, JPM, Box 71,
Folder 153/2.
Page 318
Page 318
108 Lamont to Herbert Hoover, 25 May 1932, Memorandum, 26 May 1932,
HHPL, HH, PPF, Box 168, Lamont, Thomas 1929–32.
109 This episode is recounted in Glen Jeansonne, The Life of Herbert Hoover:
Fighting Quaker 1928–1933, New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2012, p. 407
and Joslin, Off the Record, pp. 226–27 as well as the Joslin diary, 1 May 1932,
HHPL, Theodore Joslin papers, Box 10, Diary 1932. Whether Lamont was
conspiring is an open question. The published accounts imply that Lamont
was present at this meeting, but he was in Europe on 30 April 1932. It is
possible that Lamont had played a role in arranging the meeting before he left
for Europe weeks earlier.
110 Romasco, The Poverty of Abundance, p. 198; Leffingwell to Mills, 25 May
1932, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 6, Folder 126.
111 The phrase “morally wrong” that appears in marginalia in Hoover’s hand
on the executive summary sent by Lamont appears to have been written later.
Lamont to Herbert Hoover, 25 May 1932, HHPL, HH, PPF, Box 168, Lamont,
Thomas 1929–32; Joslin, Off the Record, p. 235.
112 Hoover to Mills, 3 June 1932, Hoover to Young, 3 June 1932, contains the
quotation from Hoover though the letter, which was given to Mills to deliver
to Young, was not forwarded. HHPL, HH, FRBNY papers, Box 2/2012.2
Mills, Ogden, 1932–33; Harrison memo to files, 3 June 1932; two memos by
Harrison recording his conversations with Mills, as well as the record of a
gathering attended by Harrison, Lamont, George Whitney, Richard Whitney, 3
June 1932. Both may be found in HHPL, HH, Subject Files, Box 189, NYSE
Short Selling and Bear 1932 March–December.
113 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Leffingwell and Morgan Grenfell partners, 4 June
1932, TML, CP, Box 19, Folder Morgan & Co – MG & Co. Misc. Private
Telegs 14 April to 13 August 1932; Anderson to de Sanchez, 2 August 1932,
Page 319
Page 319
TML, MBEP, Series 5 Anderson Arthur M.; The New Republic, vol. 71, no.
915, 15 June 1932, pp. 109–110.
114 Lamont speech to the Algonquin Club, Boston, 22 June 1932, BL, TWL,
Series II, Box 98, Folder 22, Hoover, Herbert C.
115 On the divide between Hoover and Stimson, see Louria, Triumph and
Downfall, pp. 144–47. Leffler, The Elusive Quest, pp. 290–91, is the clearest
exposition of the argument for Lamont’s guiding influence: “Thereafter,
Hoover and Stimson adopted Lamont’s approach as official American policy.”
Wilson is not so categorical, arguing that Lamont sought to forge a
compromise deal as an “unofficial liaison” between the Hoover
administration and Britain and France. Wilson, American Business, pp.
148–49.
116 Grenfell remarked that Harvey of the Bank of England “admits that
communications between the two Banks have been much less frequent and
intimate than they were previously.” Grenfell to Leffingwell, 13 June 1932,
BL, TWL, Series II, Box 112, Folder 1. Anderson thought that open-market
operations had been helpful, Anderson to de Sanchez, 2 August 1932, TML,
MBEP, Series 5 Anderson Arthur M, AMA. Leffingwell would later tell
Lippmann that “I think the open-market policy instantly stopped the
deflation,” Leffingwell to Lippmann, 8 December 1932, YUL, RCL, Series I,
Box 5, Folder 109.
117 Jack Morgan to Grenfell, 3 June 1932, TML, JPM, Box 25, Folder ECG;
Leffingwell to J.P. Morgan & Co., 6 June 1932, TML, CP, Box 19, Folder
Morgan & Co – MG & Co. Misc. Private Telegs 14 April to 13 August 1932;
Grenfell to Leffingwell 13 June 1932, Leffingwell to Grenfell, 14 June 1932,
BL, TWL, Series II, Box 112, Folder 1; Leffingwell to Lamont, 14 June 1932,
BL, TWL, Series II, Box 103, Folder 16; Leffingwell to J.P. Morgan & Co.,
Page 320
Page 320
17 June 1932, 22 June 1932, TML, MBEP, Box 15, Cables sent, 4 May to 30
June 1932.
118 Leffingwell to Lamont, 27 June 1932, 28 June 1932, TML, CP, Box 19,
Folder Morgan & Co – MG & Co. Misc. Private Telegs 14 April to 13 August
1932.
119 I am indebted to my colleague, Dr. Megan Armstrong, an expert in early
modern French religious history, for the information that Henry’s remark was
likely apocryphal.
120 George Harrison to W. Randolph Burgess, 28 June 1932, HHPL, HH,
FRBNY papers, Box 3/2210.2, Meyer, Eugene 1931–33.
121 A copy of the speech, given on the fortieth anniversary of his 1892
Harvard classmates, on 22 June 1932, is in BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98,
Folder 22, Hoover, Herbert C.
122 Lamont to Egan, 12 July 1932, Egan to Lamont, 14 July 1932, Lamont to
Hoover, 21 September 1932, Joslin to Sanders, 24 September 1932, BL, TWL,
Series II, Box 98, Folder 22, Hoover, Herbert C.
123 Zara Steiner, The Lights That Failed: European International Relations
1919–1933, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2005, pp. 685–86.
124 Egan to Lamont, 14 July 1932, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98, Folder 22,
Hoover, Herbert C.
125 Parker Gilbert and Leffingwell to Jack Morgan, 4 August 1932, TML,
MBEP, Series 5, Gilbert, Parker S.
126 Lamont to Hoover, 4 August 1932, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98, Folder 21,
Hoover, Herbert C., 1932.
Page 321
Page 321
127 Leffingwell to Vivian Smith, 11 November 1932, YUL, RCL, Series I,
Box 7, Folder 155.
128 Anderson to de Sanchez, 23 November 1932, TML, MBEP, Box 25,
Folder AMA.
129 William Ziegler Jr. to Lamont, 20 October 1932, 3 November 1932, BL,
TWL, Series II, Box 123, Folder 17. Ziegler was the Republican New York
State Committee Treasurer acknowledging donations of $2,000 and $5,000;
Louise Overacker, “American Government and Politics: Campaign Funds in a
Depression Year,” The American Political Science Review, vol. 27, no. 5
(1933), p. 777.
130 Lamont to John Markle, 26 October 1932, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 123,
Folder 17. In this letter Lamont informed Markle that Seward Prosser of
Bankers Trust was trying to drum up $500,000 for Hoover. In the same folder
are various documents attesting to Lamont’s and J.P. Morgan & Co. efforts to
find attendees to a meeting in New York on 27 October 1932 with mixed
success. As for Jack Morgan donating $500,000, see the mistaken claim in
Jeansonne, The Life of Herbert Hoover, p. 414. Donald Ritchie, Electing
FDR: The New Deal Campaign of 1932, Lawrence, KS: University Press of
Kansas 2007, p. 154, sets the record straight.
131 “Democrats in Big Business,” Fortune, vol. 7, January 1933, no. 1, p. 18.
132 Leffingwell to Walter Lippmann, 27 October 1932, YUL, Walter
Lippmann papers, Series III, Box 84, Folder 1313.
133 Dean Jay to Carter, 10 November 1932, NDJ papers, Knox College.
134 A borrowing from the title of Stephen Birmingham’s classic, Our Crowd:
The Great Jewish Families of New York, New York: Harper & Row, 1967.
Page 322
Page 322
135 Contrary to the misguided assertion made in Nomi Prins, All the
Presidents’ Bankers, New York: Nation Books, 2014, which fails to consult
the Morgan archival material.
136 Leffingwell to Vivian Smith, 11 November 1932, YUL, RCL, Series I,
Box 7, Folder 155.
137 Leffingwell to Roosevelt, 6 October 1932, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 7,
Folder 146.
138 Carter told Dean Jay in mid-December that “George Whitney in particular
has become quite an admirer” of Roosevelt. Carter to Dean Jay, 15 December
1932, KC, NDJ.
139 Leffingwell to Lippmann, 9 January 1933, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 5/110.
140 JPM & Co to MG; 23 February 1933, TML, CP, Box 19, Folder Morgan &
Co. – MG & Co. Misc Private Telegs 2 September 1932 to March 1933;
Leffingwell to Lamont, 23 February 1933, BL, TWL, Series V/211/12.
141 Patrick Maney, The Roosevelt Presence, Berkeley, CA: University of
California Press, 1998, pp. 47–55 is an exemplar.
142 Eric Rauchway, Winter War: Hoover, Roosevelt and the First Clash Over
the New Deal, New York: Basic Books, 2018, pp. 14–17. Alan Lawson, in his
A Commonwealth of Hope, Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University Press,
2006, makes a broader argument for a Roosevelt who as president was
committed to implementing a progressive agenda that predated his presidency.
143 The text of the Columbus speech may be found in the New York Times, 21
August 1932, p. 18. Leffingwell to Roosevelt, 23 August 1932, Roosevelt to
Leffingwell, 14 September 1932, Leffingwell to Roosevelt, 6 October 1932,
YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 7, Folder 146.
Page 323
Page 323
144 Frankfurter to the New York Herald Tribune, 19 October 1931, Roosevelt
to Frankfurter, 4 November 1931, in Max Freedman ed., Roosevelt and
Frankfurter: Their Correspondence, 1928–1945, Boston: Little, Brown, 1967,
pp. 58–60.
145 Leffingwell to Lamont, 4 January 1933, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4/95.
146 “Banking Reform,” Lamont speech to the Academy of Political Science,
18 November 1932. The speech was published in its entirety in the New York
Times on 19 November 1932; see the regular column, “Not on the Ticker
Tape,” The New Republic, 7 December 1932.
147 Rauchway, The Winter War, pp. 174–76.
148 The meeting was 19 January 1933. Johnson wrote separate letters to his
sons Archibald and Hiram Johnson Jr. on 21 and 22 January 1933,
respectively. Burke, The Diary Letters of Hiram Johnson, vol. 5.
149 Raymond Moley, After Seven Years, New York: Harper & Brothers, 1939,
p. 119.
150 Michael Perino, The Hellhound of Wall Street: How Ferdinand Pecora’s
Investigation of the Great Crash Forever Changed American Finance, New
York: Penguin Press, 2010.
151 Leuchtenburg, Franklin Roosevelt and the New Deal, pp. 32–35.
152 Lamont to Roosevelt, 3 January 1933, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 127,
Folder 21; Leffingwell to Lamont, 10 January 1933, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box
4/95.
153 Leffingwell to Harrison, 19 December 1932, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 3,
Folder 73.
Page 324
Page 324
154 Lamont to Dawes, 5 January 1933, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 91/11.
155 Jack Morgan to Grenfell, 29 December 1932, TML, JPM, Box 25,
Grenfell.
156 Burgess to Mills, 19 January 1933, HHPL, HH, FRBNY papers, Box
2/2012.2 Mills, Ogden, 1932–33; FRBNY to Ogden Mills, 30 January 1933,
LC, OLM papers, Box 11, Federal Reserve 1933 Folder.
157 Leffingwell to Lamont, 23 February 1933, BL, TWL, Series V, Box 211,
Folder 12.
158 Leffingwell to Carter, 1 March 1933, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 1, Folder
17.
159 Memorandum by Ogden Mills, 2 March 1933, HHPL, HH, Subject Files,
Box 185, Financial Matters Banking and Bankruptcy 1933.
160 Lamont to Roosevelt, 27 February 1933, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 127,
Folder 22. Lamont spoke on the phone with Roosevelt this day as well as
writing him.
161 Lamont to Woodin, 2 March 1933, 3 March 1933, BL, TWL, Series II,
Box 138, Folder 5; JPM & Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 2 March 1933, TML, CP,
Box 19, Folder Morgan & Co. – MG & Co. Misc Private Telegs 2 September
1932 to March 1933; JPM & Co. to Morgan & Cie, 5 March 1933, TML,
MBEP, Box 16, Cables rec’d, 3 January to 31 March 1933.
162 Francis Gloyd Awalt, “Recollections of the Banking Crisis of 1933,”
Business History Review, vol. 43, no. 3 (1969), pp. 360–63.
163 JPM & Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 2 March 1933, TML, CP, Box 19, Folder
Morgan & Co. – MG & Co. Misc Private Telegs 2 September 1932 to March
Page 325
Page 325
1933; Leffingwell to Lamont, 14 April 1933, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4,
Folder 95.
164 Leffingwell to Lamont, 23 February 1933, BL, TWL, Series V, Box 211,
Folder 12; JPM & Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 2 March 1933, TML, CP, Box 19,
Folder Morgan & Co. – MG & Co. Misc Private Telegs 2 September 1932 to
March 1933.
Page 326
Page 326
6
“In the Storm Cellar”: J.P. Morgan
& Co. and the New Deal,
1933–1936
◈
On 16 June 1933 Roosevelt signed the Banking Act of 1933. Glass–Steagall, as
the act is better known, came at the end of the first Hundred Days of the New
Deal. After a pause, there ensued a second round of legislation in 1935–36,
labelled by historians the Second New Deal. Collectively the New Deal
initiatives between 1933 and 1936 transformed the relationship between the
American state and the American people.1 For the Morgan partners, the
consequences of the New Deal were likewise convulsive, remaking their bank
and their world. Glass–Steagall was the fulcrum of their relationship with the
New Deal. Other New Deal measures, such as the Securities Act of May 1933
and the Banking Act of 1935, were consequential, but it was Glass–Steagall that
reconfigured J.P. Morgan & Co. The act stipulated that banks, including private
banks like Morgan, could no longer be both a deposit-taking commercial bank
and an investment bank – they must make a choice between the two. Grudgingly,
the partners complied, announcing in June 1934 that henceforth J.P. Morgan &
Co. would conduct a commercial banking business. Little more than a year later,
Page 327
Page 327
in September 1935, they re-entered investment banking at arm’s length, creating
Morgan Stanley out of the partners and staff of J.P. Morgan & Co.
Before Glass–Steagall, in the early weeks and months of the Roosevelt
administration, the central problem confronting the new president had not
changed – ending the Depression and securing the future of American capitalism
was the task. How this might be accomplished remained uncertain. Morgan
imagining that they might participate in the conversation was less jejune than it
appears. Roosevelt was committed to change but was not committed to the form
of that change. The Morgan partners pressed an incremental course on the
president, stressing the dangers of disrupting the capital markets, the
indispensability of private investment, and the threat posed by ill-considered
legislation that might throttle a nascent New Deal recovery. This counsel,
whatever its attractions, was doomed by the publicity attendant on the
investigation conducted by Ferdinand Pecora into J.P. Morgan & Co. in May and
June 1933. Emblazoned on papers across the United States, Pecora’s findings
supercharged suspicions of Morgan power and influence with disclosures of
taxes not paid, directorships held, and favourable stock deals for the powerful
and well-connected on the so-called preferred lists. Pecora was political theatre,
serving up “first-rate entertainment” to an entranced country.2 If Pecora’s
findings had little influence on the legislative provisions of Glass–Steagall, this
was immaterial. What mattered was that Pecora guaranteed the political toxicity
of J.P. Morgan & Co.
After the passage of Glass–Steagall, the Morgan partners looked inward
ever more. Feeding this change was the conservatism apparent in J.P. Morgan &
Co.’s business practices since the 1931 crises, amplified by uncertainty
surrounding whether their investment banking activity would be amputated.
Instinctively the reaction was to conserve and curtail. As the economic recovery
Page 328
Page 328
engendered by the New Deal continued, but became more fitful, the lingering
Depression was ascribed to the malignant effects of Glass–Steagall and the
Securities Act.3 Throughout the Hoover years Leffingwell had insisted
combatting deflation was the curative for an American capitalism reeling from
the long-term structural damage of World War I. Slowly this insistence gave way
to another, more parochial explanation in Morgan thinking: the impairment of
the capital markets encompassed by Glass–Steagall and the Securities Act was
contributing to ongoing economic sluggishness. The existential threat to J.P.
Morgan & Co. encapsulated in Glass–Steagall was thus conflated with, and
partially displaced, the previous Morgan understanding of why the Depression
was occurring while darkening the Morgan assessment of the New Deal. Put
differently, the Morgan partners became less concerned with the crisis of
American capitalism and more preoccupied with the crisis of J.P. Morgan & Co.
The obsession with Glass–Steagall helps explain why the Morgan partners
were “in the storm cellar” as Leffingwell remarked in 1934, as American
business and finance responded to the New Deal.4 Historians have agreed that
big business and finance, with few exceptions, tacked away from the New Deal
as it aged even if detailed explorations are scarce. The most visible political
manifestation of this phenomenon was the advent of the American Liberty
League in 1934, populated by a roster of the who’s who of the American
business world.5 Yet the Morgan partners were not in the van of the Liberty
League. If most of the partners, including Jack Morgan, Lamont, and Whitney,
were antipathetic to Roosevelt and the New Deal after 1934, Parker Gilbert and
Leffingwell remained supportive. All the Morgan partners wanted revision of
Glass–Steagall, to which end their energies were bent between June 1933 and
September 1935. This preoccupation transcended the appeals of the business and
financial community to confront the waywardness of the Roosevelt
Page 329
Page 329
administration. While depicting J.P. Morgan & Co. as a shorthand for American
banking, let alone American business, is far-fetched, the complexity of their
relationship with the New Deal has not been understood. Certainly, the
judgement reached by the standard survey, that bankers opposed the New Deal,
“detested” many of Roosevelt’s advisors, and worried that the complete
nationalization of the banking system might be on the agenda, does not conform
to J.P. Morgan & Co.6
Many Americans believed that the “Masters of Finance,” led by the Corner,
were preventing the redressment of economic and political inequality promised
by the New Deal. Morgan recalcitrance was hindering the arrival of a better
future. Father Coughlin and Huey Long – the tribunes of populism – voiced this
anger and Roosevelt manipulated it. From his inaugural speech attacking
“money changers” to his lambasting of “economic royalists” at the Democratic
convention in Philadelphia in the summer of 1936, the appeal of J.P. Morgan &
Co. as a political foil was apparent to the president. Rarely did Roosevelt voice
the Morgan name. He did not need to – all in American life knew who he meant.
The Morgan partners, unaccustomed to being villains, found this assault galling.
If by the summer of 1936 the Morgan relationship with the Roosevelt
administration had frayed, what follows weighs the evolution of J.P. Morgan &
Co. and its partners under the impact of the New Deal. The Hundred Days, the
Pecora hearings, the Morgan effort to modify Glass–Steagall, the struggles of the
Corner as a banking business, and the Banking Act of 1935 illustrate how the
Morgan partners sought to adapt to a crisis environment that was altering the
nature of capitalism as they understood it.
*****
Closed by the Emergency Banking Act, J.P. Morgan & Co. reopened in the first
wave of banks on 13 March 1933. Stunned, the partners took stock. Their houses
Page 330
Page 330
in London and Paris, as well as Fummi in Rome, were clamouring for
information. They were eager for New York’s assessment of Roosevelt.
Unabashed praise was conveyed:
The record of his accomplishments in just one week seems incredible
because we have never experienced anything like it before. With his skill
and tact he has harmonized all forces and everything that has been done is
sound. He has shown great courage and qualities of leadership which were
necessary in this emergency.7
Such gushing, which the New York partners admitted might be a “bit over-
optimistic,” was not uncommon in March 1933. Alexander Dana Noyes, the
financial editor of the New York Times, later remarked that “[j]udged by the quite
unanimous approval from all classes of the community, this action in the banking
crisis was the greatest single achievement of the Roosevelt administration.”8
Amidst the rejoicing at Roosevelt’s success, there was disquiet at the
Corner. How the new administration would proceed was uncertain. Lamont
confessed to Fummi that his record as a prophet was abysmal, cautioning that his
prognostications amounted to “drool.”9 Warning lights flashed. On 8 March
1933 Winthrop Aldrich, the chairman of the Chase National Bank, gave a speech
that outlined a program for banking and securities reform. Aldrich welcomed the
separation of security affiliates from commercial banks that had been embedded
in the Glass bill, which had stalled in the Senate in February 1933. He suggested,
however, four additional restrictions: no corporation or partnership should be
allowed to take deposits unless it was governed by the same regulations and
disclosures that constrained commercial banks; no securities dealer should be
allowed to take deposits; no officer or director dealing in securities should be
allowed to be a director of a commercial bank and vice versa; and, finally,
Page 331
Page 331
boards of directors should be limited to a more manageable number. Observers
were quick to grasp the implications. The New York Times noted that Aldrich’s
reforms were aimed at private bankers. The latter would be deprived of
financing from commercial banks to fund securities deals at the same time as the
convenient outlet of the security affiliates for placing blocks of securities would
be closed. Reducing the private bankers’ presence on boards would hurt their
influence and curtail access to insider information.10
The Morgan partners were mystified. Why had Aldrich made these
proposals? Evidently, he was responding to the revelations emanating from
Pecora’s investigation of National City Bank which had concluded on 2 March.
Yet Aldrich’s conversion to the reform cause was unexpected. Aldrich was a
substantial figure in the New York financial world. His accession to the
leadership of Chase after Albert Wiggin stepped down in December 1932 was
greeted warmly at J.P. Morgan & Co. Lamont told a correspondent in January
1933 that “Winthrop Aldrich is a grand fellow, and things will carry on in good
shape.”11 For some, because Chase was perceived as a Rockefeller bank,
Aldrich’s reform proposals were deemed the opening salvo in a
Rockefeller–Morgan clash. This idea bemused the Morgan partners.12 Cabling
Fummi on 15 March, the New York partners were blunt; despite what the papers
were reporting, there was no divide between J.P. Morgan & Co. and Chase
National – tales of Morgan–Rockefeller rivalry had no substance.13 Aldrich’s
biographer thought that Aldrich believed genuinely in reform.14 Pondering the
matter, Leffingwell advanced the speculation that perhaps Aldrich was playing a
deep game, seeking to cripple the private banks, rendering their inability to
finance the capital markets apparent, and thus opening a way back into the bond
business for commercial banks such as Chase once the blockage of the capital
markets was demonstrated.15
Page 332
Page 332
Pecora’s decision to investigate J.P. Morgan & Co. after National City
complicated matters for the Morgan partners, who now faced three threats:
Aldrich, Pecora, and a revived Glass bill. Between March and May 1933, the
Morgan partners mounted an effort to persuade the White House of the pitfalls of
overly zealous reform, by suggesting to the president the fragility of the capital
markets, Morgan centrality to those markets, and the indispensability of J.P.
Morgan & Co. to recovery. Banking and securities reform were not foremost in
Roosevelt’s mind, nor had J.P. Morgan & Co. been subjected to the opprobrium
that had descended on National City Bank. Stirring Morgan hope was the
assumption that Roosevelt and Woodin were fiscal conservatives. As the New
York partners told Morgan Grenfell early in May 1933, they were confident that
Roosevelt and Woodin were “on the side of sound money,” would resist the
“dangers of budgetary inflation,” and could be trusted to put their faith in open
market operations. There were reasons to think this was the case, among them
the reassuring presence of Douglas as the Budget Director.16
Lamont laid the groundwork by lobbying Noyes, arguably the most
influential figure in the financial press. The gist of Lamont’s message was that
the Aldrich proposals were entirely negative. His suggested reforms would,
Lamont told Noyes, disrupt the capital markets through destroying the
mechanism for marketing securities without having a suitable replacement in
hand. This criticism was to be a constant refrain in Morgan attacks on the New
Deal banking and securities legislation over the next two years. While Lamont
thought that requiring all banks to become members of the Federal Reserve
system was reasonable, an unsurprising concession given that the Morgan
partners favoured such a step, much of the criticism levied at the security
affiliates of commercial banks was, in Lamont’s estimation, unfounded. As for
the question of directors, Lamont told Noyes that J.P. Morgan & Co. had six
Page 333
Page 333
partners out of ninety-six directors on the boards of Guaranty Trust, Bankers
Trust, and New York Trust, three of the strongest financial institutions in the
country. It beggared belief to imagine, Lamont suggested, that so few directors
could dictate the course of these institutions.17 These arguments were repeated
subsequently by Lamont in conversation with Woodin and Roosevelt.
Lamont’s request for an interview with Roosevelt was ostensibly for a
discussion of the perilous state of New York City’s finances.18 On 23 March
Lamont met Woodin, prior to a talk with Roosevelt at the White House. The two
discussed prospects for a government bond issue, the gold embargo and the
looming Pecora investigation. Lamont told Woodin that now was not the
moment for the government to embark on major funding, for the capital markets
needed a period of recuperation after the recent upheaval. Too early a move
might well lead to more deflation by siphoning money from the banks. He urged
Woodin to stand firm on the gold embargo, despite murmurings that perhaps it
should be abrogated. Returning to gold could wait, Lamont advised, until things
had settled down. As for Pecora, Lamont informed Woodin that he had met with
Pecora the previous day in New York. He warned that if J.P. Morgan & Co.,
which to this point had been the rock of the Street, was held up to “obloquy,”
then confidence would be eroded, imperilling stability. He asked the Treasury
secretary to mention this danger to Roosevelt.19
The president wanted to discuss New York City. Morgan was acting as
agent for the banking syndicate that was negotiating with the City on its looming
debt renewal. Lamont had more in mind. He impressed on the president his
thoughts on Aldrich, on banking reform, on the Glass bill, on Pecora, while
stressing the importance of J.P. Morgan & Co. to the capital markets. Roosevelt
opened the conversation by observing he had told James Perkins of National
City Bank that in light of the Mitchell revelations something must be done about
security affiliates. Perkins had indicated (on 7 March) that he was willing to
Page 334
Page 334
divorce his scandal-ridden affiliate. Could commercial banks shed their security
affiliates within a year, the president asked? Lamont was dubious, replying that
two years would be necessary to prevent unwanted disorder in the markets. The
moment, Lamont told Roosevelt, was delicate. Exit from the Depression
required private capital to lead, a function that historically J.P. Morgan & Co.
had performed. Nothing should be done that might prohibit the Morgan bank
from reprising this role. Lamont told Roosevelt that throughout the Hoover years
the Corner had been working to salvage what it could from the wreckage. On
two occasions, Lamont asserted, the Morgan bank had saved Chase from
oblivion.20 His broader point was that reform proposals, whether Aldrich’s or
Glass’, would inflict damage if they were implemented too hastily. Lamont
asked the president whether he would welcome Morgan memoranda on banking
reform. It cost Roosevelt nothing to agree. How reform might be accomplished
remained open. Roosevelt floated the idea of bifurcating the proposed Glass
legislation into two bills, one to deal with penalties and prohibitions, the other to
allow branch banking and other changes. Lamont was happy to endorse this
suggestion. Lamont then raised the subject of Pecora’s investigation, pledging
that, while J.P. Morgan & Co. were committed to cooperation, he worried about
its scope. Lamont urged Roosevelt to consider replacing Pecora, or at the least
limiting his inquiry through introducing a more responsible associate to his team.
Roosevelt, cagy and genial, told Lamont that he would have a word with Senator
Duncan U. Fletcher, the chair of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee
which had oversight of the Pecora investigation. He did not reveal that he had
encouraged Pecora to inquire into J.P. Morgan & Co. via Fletcher. Lamont left
his meeting with Roosevelt by promising he would send the memoranda and
keep the president updated on New York City and complimenting him on the
degree to which his enthusiasm and passion contrasted with Hoover.21
Page 335
Page 335
Lamont sent the president the requested banking memoranda on 27 March.
Written by Parker Gilbert and Leffingwell, the two memoranda were distinct.
They represented a Morgan effort to shape the nascent New Deal’s financial and
securities legislation. The first memorandum questioned the English Companies
Act as a model for American legislation, the second was a disquisition on
banking reform. American banking travails, according to the latter, were due to
“the terrible deflation, which is world-wide as well as domestic.” Banks outside
of New York had been struck particularly hard, where “frozen and shrunken real
estate loans and farm mortgages” were the main culprits in bank failures.
Unfortunately, due to “witness-stand disclosures,” the public had formed the
impression that the banking crisis was a product of chicanery by New York
banks. Leffingwell and Parker Gilbert argued that this was not the case, for the
New York banks were sound and liquid. Restoring function to banks beyond
New York was critical, wracked as they were by deflation. Permitting branch
banking would be a positive step, though the real problem might be the
unwillingness of large, sound banks to take over small, imperilled banks. The
practice of chartering state banks should be abolished in favour of mandating
that all banks be part of the Federal Reserve system. Competition between state
superintendents and the Federal comptroller had been “one of the main causes of
the banking disaster.” The memorandum was sceptical of bolstering government
oversight on the banking sector, given that ten thousand banks had failed in the
last decade with supervision in place. Turning to commercial banks, Leffingwell
and Parker Gilbert argued that they should not be allowed to take savings
deposits, nor to make loans on real estate, instead advancing loans only on
stocks and bonds. The capital markets needed succour as they were fundamental
to recovery, but contrary to what Aldrich was propounding, the memorandum
recommended that commercial banks be stripped of their security affiliates in
Page 336
Page 336
favour of “private bankers, issuing houses and dealers,” though commercial
banks would still be allowed to buy and sell bonds. Tellingly, the memorandum
advocated fostering more private bankers via legislative changes that would
encourage their formation. Regulation of the capital issues market should be
based on the Martin Fraud Act used in New York rather than Blue Sky laws.22
While there was much in the memoranda that was sound and had been discussed
in reformed minded circles for some time, the advice to depend more heavily on
private bankers was breath-taking in its political naiveté.
Supplementing the banking memoranda was a steady flow of information
from Lamont to Roosevelt about New York City. Lamont was assiduous in
keeping the president abreast. Communications on 11 and 18 April, followed by
another on 12 May, laid out the negotiation between the bankers and the City on
refinancing the City’s debt. The banking group and the City had been wrangling
for more than year on the City’s finances. With maturities of $126 million
coming due in late April, the bankers were pushing Mayor John P. O’Brien, a
veteran Tammany politician who had succeeded the colourful Jimmy Walker, to
proceed with subway unification. Lamont warned Roosevelt that the New York
Clearing House was reluctant to extend credit unless this transpired, pointing out
that the City would need another $100 million over the course of the year. A
week later Lamont told the president that the Clearing House banks had agreed
to roll over $123 million of the outstanding debt to 10 June, an outcome that
Lamont regarded as poor but better than default. Through Marvin McIntyre, the
assistant press secretary, Lamont, relying on the views of Fraser, the new
president of the BIS, voiced the fear that New York’s continued troubles would
lead to flight from the dollar. He reiterated the banking group’s unhappiness with
O’Brien in a phone call with Louis Howe in May.23
Page 337
Page 337
The closure of the Harriman National Bank in New York, which occurred
while the New York City negotiations were ongoing, complicated Morgan efforts
to craft their image of indispensability. The Harriman bank, with deposits of $24
million and no connection to Brown Brothers Harriman, had not reopened on 13
March with other New York City banks. A conservator was appointed. It soon
emerged that the former head of the bank had misappropriated monies. Making
the collapse of Harriman National awkward were various factors. Roosevelt had
insisted publicly that banks would be reopened on a case-by-case basis,
dependent on their soundness. This principle, the New York Clearing House
argued, absolved them of responsibility for Harriman. Harriman, however, was a
member of the Clearing House. Past assurances from the Clearing House had led
to the widespread assumption that the Clearing House would stand behind the
obligations of its members. Confronted with the possibility of having to make
good on the Harriman’s obligations, the Clearing House members split. Some,
notably Guaranty Trust and National City, believed that they owed nothing to
Harriman’s depositors. The subsequent row involved Harrison of the FRBNY
and reached directly into the Roosevelt administration. According to Jesse Jones,
the RFC head, he called on Jack Morgan and asked him directly to put up the
funds necessary ($5–6 million in the Jones telling) to bail out the Harriman
depositors. Precisely why Jones thought Morgan – not a Clearing House member
– would undertake to advance its own funds is uncertain though it may attest to a
conviction that Morgan controlled the Clearing House. After a fruitless
conversation with Jack Morgan and two other unnamed Morgan partners, likely
Lamont and Whitney, Jones left after reminding the Morgan partners that the
Clearing House had run an advertisement touting the soundness of its members.
Jones enlisted Roosevelt to lobby Perkins of National City to stand behind the
Harriman bank. The president did so, informing Perkins that he had already
Page 338
Page 338
spoken about Harriman with Whitney.24 Independently, Harrison recruited
Lamont and Whitney to mediate the dispute. Harrison felt strongly that the
Clearing House should honour its “moral obligation” to backstop the Harriman
depositors. Harrison wanted to demonstrate that the New York financial
community could resolve its own problems without the intervention of
Washington. Harrison hoped that Lamont and Whitney might be able to broker a
compromise. Guaranty and National City were intransigent. The solution
reached owed more to the willingness of Manufacturers Trust, another Clearing
House member, to shepherd payment to the Harriman depositors than to Lamont
and Whitney.25
If their involvement in the Harriman affair had been more happenstance
than design, the apogee of seeming communion between the Morgan partners
and Roosevelt came with the president’s announcement on 19 April that the
United States was abandoning the gold standard. The following day Jack
Morgan issued a press statement that congratulated the president warmly,
shocking observers.26 A nonplussed columnist in The New Republic observed
that the Morgan comment was “in no way a spontaneous endorsement” but was
“[c]arefully planned.” The New Republic pointed out that, while Morgan
sanction had undercut conservative Wall Street opposition prepared to shriek
about the sanctity of the gold standard, it had also worried “progressive
statesmen” who feared that there was a catch that they had not contemplated
when advocating the suspension of the gold standard. The New Republic
concluded that the Morgan announcement was written by Lamont whose
contacts with the White House were close.27 J.P. Morgan & Co. had played a
part in Roosevelt’s announcement, but Morgan influence was less determinant
than The New Republic deemed. Leffingwell had persuaded Lippmann that
leaving the gold standard was necessary because of its deflationary effects, citing
Page 339
Page 339
the rebound in the British economy apparent after sterling’s devaluation.
Roosevelt, willing to experiment, had read Lippmann’s Today and Tomorrow
column of 18 April to this effect, though the president was unaware that
Lippmann’s arguments had been shaped by Leffingwell.28
Rexford Tugwell thought that Leffingwell was Roosevelt’s closest
touchstone on the Street. Roosevelt and Leffingwell shared a common worry –
deflation – which explained their mutual apostasy on gold. Writing Dean Jay at
the end of March 1933, Leffingwell expressed his unease. While praising
Roosevelt for his “great courage” in handling the banking crisis and tackling the
budget deficit, which was “splendid,” Leffingwell observed that the president’s
policies “have been on the whole deflationary” wondering “[w]hether he and his
advisors are going to be able to evolve constructive policies adequate to deal
with the deflation.” Leffingwell voiced the fear that “everything that is intended
to stop the deflation is condemned as unsound and inflationary both here and
abroad.”29 Leffingwell was guilty of the sin that he decried. He, like his partners,
had welcomed the Economy Bill in March 1933 that slashed government
expenditures at the expense of government workers and veterans.30 Leffingwell
was in the phalanx of sound-money men who savaged Senator Elbert Thomas’
April 1933 amendment that envisaged boosting the money supply through
recourse to printing money and silver purchases. Nevertheless, his assessment of
the president’s policies was not wide of the mark. Roosevelt, as Leuchtenberg
has observed of his opening weeks in office, had “pursued a policy more
ruthlessly deflationary than anything Hoover had dared.”31 Yet Roosevelt
recognized that this was so in a way that Hoover never did; he understood that
he needed to implement measures that would be inflationary to offset deflation.
Squaring the circle was thought possible by departing from gold.
Page 340
Page 340
The gold standard announcement prompted contemporaries to think that the
Morgan voice would be heard in Roosevelt’s White House, as it had been in
every presidency since the Wilson administration. There were, however, and
continued to be, strong countervailing pressures. Roosevelt, as discussed in the
previous chapter, was not ill-disposed personally to J.P. Morgan & Co. but he
looked askance at its influence and shied away from being associated with the
Corner. This had shone through in the inauguration speech. James P. Warburg,
still in Roosevelt’s good graces, labelled the Morgan firm “taboo” in the White
House.32 The Morgan partners were correct in identifying Roosevelt’s basic
financial orthodoxy but wrong to assume that this meant that J.P. Morgan & Co.
would be sheltered. Men such as Jones, who shared Roosevelt’s conservative
financial disposition, were anti-Morgan and more generally anti–Wall Street. If
neither Jones nor Roosevelt were willing to subscribe to the agitation of advisors
such as Tugwell who hankered to nationalize the banking system, this did not
mean that they viewed the Corner favourably. Roosevelt’s sometime advisor,
Frankfurter, told Lippmann on 11 March 1933 that:
It’s absurd, tragically absurd, that the House of Morgan should be
exercising the power it is exercising, not because they are wicked but
because a long term of years, and particularly the last few years, has shown
that they are singularly unknowing, and do not even understand the
meaning of their own actions.33
Others outside the White House chimed in. No paper was more assertive
than the New York American, Hearst’s daily. In an intemperate and violent
editorial on 13 March the American charged that “confidence men of big
business” had done more to undermine the republic than all of the “bolshevists
and anarchists in existence.” J.P. Morgan & Co., the leader of this cabal, was
Page 341
Page 341
accused of fostering inflation and speculation, for “pirating from the public and
betraying the best interests of the nation,” and for acting as a tool of foreign
interests, specifically Britain and its empire. The editorial claimed that the
Morgan bank had “dominated both political parties in the United States.”
Thankfully, it continued, Roosevelt was not Morgan’s creature and was not
beholden to the bank. Aldrich, depicted as the archangel Gabriel, was leading the
way to banking reform.34 Huey Long made it clear in interviews and speeches
that the New Deal needed to redress the imbalance in power between the mass of
Americans and those such as the Morgans. Long’s blunt statement that Parker
Gilbert and Leffingwell were among a group of bankers who were “running the
thing,” testified to his willingness to allege that, while presidents might have
changed, Morgan control of the White House had not lapsed.35 Barron’s
admitted in early May 1933 that “[a]mong the depression grievances common to
the great mass of Americans probably none is more bitter than their sense of
injury at the hands of investment bankers.”36 Leffingwell had conceded as much
when he wrote Dean Jay: “you will have seen there is an anti-big-banker crusade
on. There is so much hunger and distress that it is only too natural for the people
to blame the bankers and to visit their wrath on the greatest name in American
banking.”37
*****
Crusading found expression in the public response to the announcement that
Pecora intended to investigate J.P. Morgan & Co. Americans flooded Pecora’s
office with suggestions, tips, and recommendations usually baseless or far-
fetched but occasionally accurate.38 Pecora’s handling of Mitchell had already
won him plaudits, inspiring confidence, ensuring that his inquiry into Morgan
would be taken seriously. Expectation ran high. What was Pecora seeking to
Page 342
Page 342
accomplish? Marrinan wrote a personal and private letter to “Dear Ferd” shortly
before the Morgan hearings opened urging that the goals should be to unmask
the Morgan “virtual dictatorship” that characterized much of American business
and financial life, with the aim being “to break that dictatorship.”39 Pecora’s
conception was not as far-reaching. Early in May Pecora had, in consultation
with Senator Fletcher, rejected calls to expand the inquiry of the Morgan firm
into questions such as the entrance of the United States into war in 1917 on the
grounds that doing so might embarrass the Roosevelt administration.40 Pecora,
an experienced prosecutor, having reviewed the documents unearthed by his
investigators, knew that they did not show that the Morgan partners headed a
“dictatorship” commanding American business and finance. He admitted so
years later in his 1939 book Wall Street under Oath. Pecora’s aim was less to
destroy a fictional control that the Corner exerted and more to paint J.P. Morgan
& Co., the leader of the Street, as tarnished by questionable activity despite its
sterling reputation.
Opening on 23 May 1933 and lasting until 9 June, there were twelve days
of hearings. For eight of those days, Pecora quizzed the Morgan partners,
principally Jack Morgan and Whitney, who consulted frequently with Lamont
and John W. Davis, the lead Morgan lawyer and former Democratic presidential
nominee in the 1924 election.41 On specific questions, notably taxation, Keyes,
the general manager of J.P. Morgan & Co., testified. The appearance of the
Morgan partners before the Senate committee garnered tremendous interest.
Media coverage was torrid, the hearing room and adjacent hall so jammed that
senators complained about the noise generated by spectators, reporters, and
photographers. Moving to the larger marble-floored caucus room on 25 May
where the Teapot Dome inquiry was held did not solve matters; in some ways it
made it worse for the scraping of chairs on the marble floor drowned out much
Page 343
Page 343
of the testimony, difficulties that were overcome in the afternoon session by the
hasty laying down of carpets and the provision of a loudspeaker (see Figure
6.1).42 Amid the sweltering heat, The New Republic observed, “[s]o completely
has the Senate probe into the great House of Morgan blanketed all other issues
on the Washington stage that it is impossible at this time to arouse interest in any
other topic.”43
Figure 6.1 Jack Morgan and partners at the Pecora hearings in 1933 in a
photograph showing the oppressive heat.
Bettmann/Getty Images.
Jack Morgan was first to testify. With the preliminaries dispensed, he
delivered a statement about the duties and responsibilities of the private banker
that expressed not only his personal convictions but those of his partners. He
aimed to shield J.P. Morgan & Co. by depicting private banking as an ethical,
honourable profession with a venerable tradition running back to the Middle
Ages. Private banking, he told the committee, rested on an appreciation that
reputation was paramount: “I should state that at all times the idea of doing only
Page 344
Page 344
first-class business, and that in a first-class way, has been in our minds.” Private
bankers, given that they were dependent on their own resources, had to be sure
their financial position was sound, a stricture that mandated “disinterested
advice” to clients. The uses of private bankers, he continued, were varied. Their
freedom of action, Jack Morgan argued, was greater than incorporated banks
who had to answer to boards of directors and to shareholders. Consequently,
private bankers fulfilled a vital function in the allocation of distribution of
capital to industry. Contrary to what was often alleged, there was a logic to
private bankers serving as directors for companies with whom they did business.
Their position imparted confidence to the market that the offerings made on
behalf of the company bore the imprimatur of its bankers, while their financial
expertise
complemented
the
expertise
of
the
existing
management.
Acknowledging that, while the Depression had diminished demand from
industry for capital, Jack Morgan affirmed that this was temporary. He warned
against any changes in the “machinery of distribution” of securities that would
follow from restricting the activities of private bankers on the grounds that doing
so would imperil recovery as industrial demand for capital revived. Limiting the
ability of private bankers to take deposits would reduce the flow of capital to
succour industry. On the issue of private bankers serving as directors of other
banks – hotly debated – Jack Morgan admitted that he was not in favour of it as a
policy but demurred to his partners. Banker directors assisted the financial
community, situating the private banker as a mediator within the banking world.
Robustly, he concluded that “I state without hesitation that I consider the private
banker a national asset and not a national danger.”44
Pecora pursued three themes in rebuttal. First, he sought to demystify the
bank, to show how it was organized, to identify its partners, to document the
business it conducted, while revealing J.P. Morgan & Co.’s financial condition.
Page 345
Page 345
Second, Pecora made a case for the preponderance of Morgan influence in
American economic and financial life. Morgan loans – to directors of other
banks, to individuals with powerful business and political affiliations – were
detailed. The directorships held by the partners were disclosed, while senators
were encouraged to probe the issue of interlocking directorates. The crucial issue
was the so-called preferred lists. The lists documented the preferential
distribution of stock to individuals at below-market prices in the three Morgan-
sponsored holding companies created in 1929 – Alleghany, United Corporation,
and Standard Brands – ahead of the opening of the shares on the NYSE enabling
the recipients to make an immediate profit. Third, Pecora endeavoured to
demonstrate that the bank and its partners were less high-minded than Jack
Morgan had portrayed in his opening statement. Taxes were central. Pecora
sought to show that the Morgan partners had manipulated the tax code to their
advantage. He pressed home the argument that Morgan behaviour skirted the law
on the last day of the hearings when he targeted William Ewing, Thomas S.
Lamont, and Harold Stanley for private transactions such as reaping tax losses
by selling shares to their wives. He wanted this impression of the Morgan
partners to be the lasting one in the public mind.
All three themes were introduced on the first day of the hearings. Laying
out for Americans who the Morgan partners were, how the bank was constituted,
and who banked with it was a calculated gambit. While doing so illustrated the
involvement of J.P. Morgan & Co. with many of the most prominent
corporations in American life, demonstrated the privileged place that the Corner
had vis-à-vis regulators and the FRBNY, and detailed its connections in London
and Paris, it also laid out starkly that J.P. Morgan & Co. was an elite institution
with scant connection to the vast majority of Americans. Given that the Morgan
bank did not accept deposits from the public, did not retail securities, and had
eschewed stock offerings, concentrating almost entirely on issuing bonds since
Page 346
Page 346
1913, greater pressure fell on making the case that the scale of Morgan influence
touched the daily lives of Americans. Disclosure of the Morgan balance sheet
occasioned an additional difficulty. J.P. Morgan & Co., whether gauged by
assets, deposits, or its capital (net worth), was far smaller than the leading trio of
New York money-centre banks, Chase, National City, and Guaranty Trust, all of
which had assets and deposits in excess of $1 billion. The Morgan bank was
closest in size to Bank of the Manhattan and Chemical Bank & Trust, neither of
which stood accused of dominating American economic and financial life. Acute
newspaper analyses hinted at this; Pecora, whether he wanted to or not, had to
follow the path blazed by Pujo in 1912 by arguing that Morgan influence far
outpaced its resources.45
Pecora opened by asking Jack Morgan to read a list of the 167 directorships
his investigators had determined the partners held. It made, as Pecora hoped, an
impression. The Christian Science Monitor reported, “Pipe lines, Alaskan mines,
chain stores, transportation companies, great foundries, mail order houses, street
car lines, all had their Morgan representatives on their board of directors.”46
However, the aggregate figures were misleading, a point that was driven home
on the last day of the hearings in Lamont’s exchange with Democratic Senator
Edward P. Costigan of Colorado. Costigan, who relied on Corey’s 1930 book on
the House of Morgan, found his arguments about directorships dismantled as
Lamont demonstrated that, while it was simple to identify directors, it was far
harder to prove that control followed. Two and a half years later, Lawrence
Brown, part of the investigative team preparing to question the Morgan partners
in the hearings into the munition industry (the Nye hearings), reflected that
Pecora had gained less than expected in probing directorships: “this method has
been tried, I think, too many times with too questionable results to make me feel
Page 347
Page 347
happy about proceeding with it again. Pecora tried it and Lamont and Whitney
riddled it on the stand.”47
Pecora was on sounder footing when it came to the preferential distribution
of securities to individuals at below-market prices in Alleghany, United
Corporation, and Standard Brands. Not all the committee members were swayed;
Glass, who emerged at the hearings as Pecora’s chief foe, signalled his
opposition (see Figure 6.2). It was only following the retreat of the committee
into closed executive session that Pecora prevailed and the lists were duly made
public. The great and the good were revealed to have been proffered Morgan
largesse. In the case of Alleghany, of a total of 3.5 million common stock shares
issued, J.P. Morgan & Co. was earmarked a bloc of 1.25 million. From this bloc
500,000 shares were sold to Guaranty Trust. Of the remaining 750,000, the firm
kept some 175,000 for its account, while 575,000 shares were allotted to the
partners, business associates, family members, friends, and politicians at a price
of $20, well below the market opening figure of $37.48 Among the names on the
Alleghany preferred list were luminaries such as Newton D. Baker, Wilson’s
secretary of war from 1916 to 1921 and a candidate for the Democratic
presidential nomination at Chicago in 1932, Charles Lindbergh, and General
John Pershing. Especially embarrassing in Democratic circles was the revelation
that Woodin, now the secretary of the Treasury, and William G. McAdoo, a
member of the Senate committee inquiring into J.P. Morgan & Co., were named.
More consternation accompanied the revelation of the preferred lists for United
and Standard Brands, where other prominent citizens, such as the roving
diplomat Norman Davis, featured. Whitney, interrogated by Pecora about
whether the Morgan firm expected reciprocity from these favours, denied it. At
perhaps the darkest moment in the hearings for the Morgan partners, Pecora then
read into the record a response Whitney had received from John J. Raskob, the
former Du Pont and General Motors executive, and ex-chairman of the
Page 348
Page 348
Democratic National Committee from 1928–32: “I appreciate deeply the many
courtesies shown me by you and your partners, and sincerely hope the future
holds opportunities for me to reciprocate.” Whitney’s rejoinder that he thought
that Raskob’s letter was simply a polite acknowledgement did nothing to dispel
the image of influence peddling.49
Figure 6.2 Senator Carter Glass and Ferdinand Pecora during the Pecora
hearings, 1933.
Bettmann/Getty Images.
The preferred lists cast J.P. Morgan & Co. in a sinister light. Pecora sought
to build on this success by delving into taxes as well as the private financial
affairs of selected Morgan partners. Taxation was the more effective line of
inquiry. It emerged that the Morgan partners paid no income taxes in 1931 and
1932 because of the losses suffered by the firm. When Jack Morgan admitted
that he had paid taxes in Britain in the same period, the inequity appeared
palpable. Whitney’s observation the next day that in 1930 the Morgan partners
had paid $11 million in taxes on their 1929 earnings did little to salve the wound.
Page 349
Page 349
Pecora parlayed his opening by hammering at the question of when Parker
Gilbert was admitted to the Morgan partnership. The entrance of any new partner
meant reconstitution of the partnership. The decision to date Parker Gilbert’s
entrance to 2 January 1931 rather than 31 December 1930 allowed the partners
to extend the carryover for tax losses an additional year, a point Pecora returned
to repeatedly.50 These attacks had their effect. The Washington Post, in an
editorial, “Rich Men Pay No Taxes,” acknowledged that, while what the
partners had done did not constitute “fraud,” it imposed “an unjust burden upon
low-salaried citizens who are unable to escape through tax-exempt securities or
manipulation of assets.”51 The implication was clear – legal or not, such
behaviour transgressed acceptable standards.
If taxes besmirched the Morgan image, Pecora’s attempt to extend doubts
about Morgan propriety through querying their private transactions was less
successful. The Morgan partners varied considerably in how they conducted
their private financial affairs. Marrinan, summarizing the insider trading
transactions of partners in stock of firms in which they were directors, observed
that Bartow, Cochran, Stanley, Steele, and Whitney made substantial sums
between 1928 and 1931, ranging from $200,000 to more than $1.3 million.
Anderson and Parker Gilbert, though, did no trading, while Davison, Thomas S.
Lamont, Harry Morgan, and Junius Morgan lost money on trading. Ewing,
Thomas W. Lamont, and Jack Morgan made modest profits ranging from
$15,000 to $60,000 in total across the four years.52 Given that there was no
consistent pattern of Morgan exploitation and that insider trading was not illegal,
Pecora opted to underscore more dubious transactions. Pecora cornered Thomas
S. Lamont, who had sold stocks to his wife in 1930 and then claimed tax losses
associated with the sale, forcing him to admit that he had benefited far more than
he claimed, revealing a shabbiness of spirit distant from Jack Morgan’s
Page 350
Page 350
encomium to Morgan principles. Ewing’s behaviour was equally grubby. Under
questioning from Pecora, Ewing conceded that he and his wife had sold short
stocks on behalf of trusts in which they were the trustees. After extracting from
Ewing the admission that firm policy prohibited short-selling, Ewing admitted
that the stock concerned was Johns-Manville Corporation, on whose board
Bartow and Whitney served as directors. Stanley too had sold stock to his wife
which produced a tax loss for him.53 While the blows were real, how damaging
they were to the Morgan reputation is uncertain. Thomas S. Lamont, Ewing, and
Stanley were not the partners whose names resonated. Of the senior partners,
Whitney had engaged in questionable activity but Leffingwell, Jack Morgan, and
Lamont were untainted.
When the hearings concluded, their import, despite the blaze of publicity
that attended them, was equivocal. The partners were infuriated, railing in their
private correspondence at the indignities that they had suffered and maligning
Pecora for months thereafter in uncomplimentary, dismissive, insulting terms,
attacking his appearance, ethnicity, and religion. Much of this carping was drawn
from the wellspring of prejudice rather than any legitimate objection arising
from how Pecora had conducted the hearings.54 The most (in)famous moment,
when Jack Morgan was photographed with the circus midget Lya Graf on his
lap, was the product of the overzealous prompting of a press agent for Ringling
Brothers circus. It had nothing to do with Pecora. Pecora’s questioning was on
occasion sharp, but there was little of the Spanish Inquisition that Lamont
bemoaned to correspondents.55 Though The Nation’s antipathy toward the
Morgan firm was habitual, there was a ring of truth in its retelling of an
observation from a Morgan familiar, “What I cannot stand about them is their
smug sureness that they know better than anybody else how everybody else
should act.”56 Pecora punctured certainty, which stung. Nevertheless, Morgan
Page 351
Page 351
fulminations against Pecora dissipated as time passed, leaving a residue of
bitterness but little of permanence.
The partners were concerned about the press refracting the hearings in a
way that would bend public opinion. They had striven before the hearings to
diminish this likelihood, circulating memoranda to selected journalists and
papers laying out the Morgan case. Once ended, Lamont orchestrated the
despatch of a reprint of Morgan statements made during the course of the
testimony – Jack Morgan’s opening remarks, Whitney’s statement detailing the
firm’s public securities offerings since 1918, Jack Morgan’s concluding
comments, and Leffingwell’s analysis of the origins, course, and development of
US financial and economic matters postwar – to 265 journalists, businessmen,
academics, civil servants, financiers, politicians, and diplomats in the United
States and Europe.57 Much of the Morgan worry was ill-founded: the revelations
at Washington tended to reinforce pre-existing attitudes. Newspapers and
journals that were hostile to J.P. Morgan & Co. before Pecora remained so, while
those who were supportive were inclined to find in the testimony much to
admire. Attitudes perhaps hardened and the force with which they were
expressed heightened. The veteran muckraking journalist Paul Y. Anderson,
whose writings had done much to publicize the Teapot Dome scandal in the
1920s, was an example. Working for The Nation since 1929, Anderson gave free
rein to his contempt, referring to “those creatures, the bankers,” whose actions
were dominated by greed and self-centredness. What had emerged in
Washington “was no shock to me, because I have devoted much study to this
particular form of animal life.”58 Obscure tracts depicted Jack Morgan as a half-
human, half-spider figure, preying on the American public, as a leering, violent
ogre squeezing blood out of a helpless American populace, or as a laughing,
maniacal steam-roller driver, puffing merrily on his cigar while crushing his
Page 352
Page 352
fellow citizens.59 If neither Anderson nor the cartoons were typical, they attested
to the degree to which Depression and Pecora had interacted with legends of
Morgan power to produce a rhetoric emphasizing violence, suffering, and
redemption through the New Deal.
While the Morgan partners dismissed the cartoons as the ravings of a
“lunatic,” two responses wounded: those of the New York Times and Lippmann.
The Times editorial of 27 May, “Why It Hurts,” struck at the Morgan sense of
themselves, lamenting that the partners had foregone their “fine consciousness
of responsibility and trusteeship,” sacrificing in the process “something
intangible, something imponderable, that has to do with the very highest repute.”
The partners, the editorial continued, had forgotten that they must not only be
unassailable for their financial integrity, which was not in question, but they
must be seen to be unimpeachable. Nothing could have been more calculated to
cut Jack Morgan to the quick. A disturbed Lamont fired off a rejoinder to Adolph
Ochs, protesting that when the shares were offered none of the men to whom the
privilege was extended were in office, nor were they expected to be in the
future.60
Lippmann’s defection was graver. More than any single figure in the print
world Lippmann mattered to the Morgan partners. He had been cultivated by
Lamont, Leffingwell, and Parker Gilbert and had in turn cultivated them.
Lamont and Leffingwell regarded Lippmann as a personal friend. His two
columns on the hearings, published on 26 and 31 May, were thus unforeseen.
The first, “The Investigation of the Private Bankers,” was upsetting, urging
Pecora to ascertain whether a Money Trust existed and, if it did, to recommend
reform. The second, “The Morgan Inquiry,” was injurious. Lippmann was
convinced that Pecora had demonstrated that a Money Trust existed, asserting
that, “[t]he firm is the center of an immense network of power and influence
Page 353
Page 353
embracing the largest corporations in almost every line of economic activity …
by its prestige and its connections it has exercised a towering influence upon
American corporate financing.” Lippmann argued that this concentration of
power in private hands was incompatible with a healthy democratic state.
Looking forward, he suggested, there must be changes, though those that he
called for imagined regulating the securities markets to curtail private power,
rather than fostering more expansive government control in Washington. The
blow was more shocking because Lippmann wrote for the New York Herald
Tribune, whose owners, the Reids, were beholden to the goodwill of the Corner.
Lamont especially, and to a lesser degree Leffingwell and Parker Gilbert, was
enraged.61 While the relationship between Lamont and Lippmann never regained
its former warmth, Lippmann’s distancing from the New Deal, which
accelerated after 1933, revived his engagement with the Morgan partners, though
he no longer holidayed with them.
The political effects of the Morgan hearings were muted. The reserved
attitude of committee members, especially Democratic senators, who were not
inclined to maximize Morgan discomfort, struck observers.62 Democratic
reticence arose from more than McAdoo’s embarrassment – the repercussions of
the preferred lists reached into the White House. Harold Ickes, the secretary of
the interior, recorded that at a Cabinet meeting on 26 May, the question of
whether Woodin should resign was raised. Vice-president John Nance Garner
was in favour, fearing that public opinion would draw the conclusion that
Morgan interests dominated Roosevelt’s administration, as they had Hoover’s
and Coolidge’s. Garner’s worry was not without foundation. Senator Arthur
Robinson of Indiana had insisted the day before Cabinet met that Woodin must
go. Robinson, a Republican, was of little moment to the White House. It was
harder to overlook Huey Long, who in a speech to the Senate entitled “Our
Page 354
Page 354
Constant Rulers” on 26 May echoed Garner’s charge – administrations might
come and go but Morgan power remained. Garner’s view did not carry the day.
Attorney-General Homer S. Cummings and, crucially, Roosevelt were opposed
to asking for Woodin’s resignation. Roosevelt may have deflected calls for
changes in his administration but the price was acquiescence to Glass–Steagall.
The Roosevelt administration did not have the bill as a priority and was opposed
to its deposit insurance clauses. The form of Glass–Steagall owed little to
Pecora’s dramatic confrontation with the Morgan partners. Its legislative guts
had been crafted before the Morgan hearing. Raymond Moley was right when he
wrote that Glass–Steagall “can hardly be classed as a New Deal measure.”63
Nevertheless, the effects of the dramatic testimony in Washington left no doubt
that open association with J.P. Morgan & Co. was a liability for a Democratic
administration.64
*****
As Carosso observed, the Morgan partners were slow to appreciate that politics
had changed in Washington.65 This myopia owed something to continued
Morgan belief in Roosevelt and the New Deal. Admiration for the president
remained intact. Leffingwell was supportive of Roosevelt’s course at the World
Economic Conference underway in London in June and July 1933. Unlike many
commentators, then and subsequently, Leffingwell approved of the president’s
decision to scuttle the talks.66 Though Leffingwell thought New Deal banking
and security legislation unwise, he was confident that it could be modified:
“[t]he Glass-Steagall Bill and the Securities Bill present the most difficult
problems; of which we have not yet found the solution.” Optimistically,
Leffingwell continued, “I do not consider them insoluble; and I think the best
way to solve them is to forget them for a month or two and come back fresh to
them in the autumn.”67 It was advice his partners had already taken. With the
Page 355
Page 355
hearings concluded, Jack Morgan and Lamont both headed to Britain where they
found refuge, taking particular pleasure in an editorial published in The Times
that characterized the Pecora investigation as a witch-hunt. The Morgan partners
remaining in New York were encouraged by the direction of the New Deal.
Writing his father on 1 August, Thomas S. Lamont chided him for being too
“pessimistic,” arguing that “the improvement is real, and that, with possible set-
backs, it will continue,” leading him to recommend purchasing stocks as a long-
term investment. Days later Parker Gilbert, in a commentary to Dean Jay,
commended the Treasury for its “good job with the public finances.” Inflation
was dormant, employment was on the mend, leading him to conclude that
“[b]usiness is really a good deal better.” A month on, in mid-September, a
similar view was cabled to Paris, reiterating that we are “very cautiously
optimistic.”68
Through the fall of 1933 the partners, like many, were perplexed by the
president’s monetary policy. They doubted the soundness of the counsel that
Roosevelt was receiving from men such as the Cornell economist George F.
Warren and were admittedly “cloudy” on what the president intended.69 The
administration’s gold-purchasing program, the subject of acrimony in orthodox
financial circles, bewildered. Nevertheless, while the partners were puzzled, they
defended Roosevelt. Surveying developments at the year’s end, Lamont told his
frequent correspondent Sybil Colefax that “[t]he feeling on the whole is that
President Roosevelt has, even with some inevitable errors, done a very good
job.” A month later Anderson repelled criticism from his former Morgan
colleague, de Sanchez, describing the president’s policies as “pretty intelligent”
since entering office, noting that there was no question that the “vast majority”
of Americans supported Roosevelt. Writing to the Paris partners at the end of
January 1934, Lamont informed them that business was “better” and that “On
Page 356
Page 356
the whole I should say that we are distinctly cheerful.” Weeks later, Leffingwell
echoed this sentiment, opining to Dean Jay that the United States is “now out of
the depression of 1929 … [w]e are well on our way out of the slough of
despond.” Leffingwell remarked that he doubted that there would be a relapse
and was positive there would not be “if we can get the capital market open
again.”70
In this last comment lay the tendrils of doubt. Leffingwell, not Lamont, was
the principal Morgan point of contact with the president after the passage of
Glass–Steagall. Leffingwell’s standing as a Democrat, a supporter of Roosevelt
and the New Deal, coupled with his identification as one of the more flexible,
imaginative thinkers on Wall Street afforded, the partners calculated, a greater
chance of a hearing from the White House. Animated by worry that securing
revision of Glass–Steagall and the Securities Act would be more difficult than
anticipated, Leffingwell wrote Lamont early in the New Year. Reflecting on the
passage of Glass–Steagall, Leffingwell dismissed stories that Aldrich had
influenced the legislation, a view that explained why Leffingwell had accepted
calmly Carter Glass’s warning that it had been Aldrich who had concocted the
specific clauses targeting the private bankers in Glass–Steagall in concert with
Roosevelt.71 The real foes were old ones – Brandeis and Frankfurter.72
These views have been described as “rancid musings,” redolent of Morgan
anti-Semitism, hostility, and paranoia regarding the New Deal. Such a reading is
mistaken. Anti-Semitism there was but Leffingwell’s letter has been
misunderstood because of the failure of historians to read it in its entirety.73
Leffingwell was tracing Glass–Steagall and the Securities Act to the Pujo
hearings, to Other People’s Money, to Progressivism and the Money Trust, and
was suggesting a policy of concessions to allow J.P. Morgan & Co. to preserve
itself. Notable was his conviction that the banking side of J.P. Morgan & Co. was
Page 357
Page 357
dependent on its investment side. Much of this prognosis was incorrect. Neither
Brandeis nor Frankfurter had as much sway with the administration as
Leffingwell believed, though scholars continue to debate how much influence
they enjoyed. Glass–Steagall had many parents, not least of whom was Glass.
Nor did Leffingwell’s partners accept his suggestion to sacrifice their banking
directorships as the price that must be paid to secure revision. As it happened,
Leffingwell’s partners chose not to follow his counsel but opted rather to
persuade a Roosevelt imagined to be amenable to Morgan diagnosis.
Couched within a framework of wide-ranging economic advice,
Leffingwell marshalled his arguments, mixing a core message of the imperative
of private investment driven by unshackled capital markets as fundamental to the
long-term recovery of the American economy with observations on deflation, on
gold, and on Federal Reserve policy. Too much intervention, he told the
president, risked hobbling recovery. Roosevelt replied with short, genial
missives, conceding little while basking in the warmth of Leffingwell’s praise.74
To others, such as Colonel House and Ickes, Roosevelt revealed a different mind,
portraying himself as facing a hostile banking coterie that had controlled
governments since Andrew Jackson.75 Undeterred by the president’s
evasiveness, Leffingwell sent Roosevelt a flurry of letters and memoranda in
January and February 1934. If Leffingwell’s ideas stamped him as distant from a
business community in thrall to the dogmas of “the old prescription of 1932” –
chopping government expenditure, restoring a balanced budget, and returning to
gold – his urgings were familiar.76 The basic problem, Leffingwell thought, was
that, while the Roosevelt administration had made the correct choices in leaving
gold, in managing money, and in prodding the Federal Reserve to lend more
freely, permanent recovery rested on a revival of private investment. American
capitalism could not survive on a diet of loans originated by the RFC.77
Page 358
Page 358
Changes, therefore, were required to Glass–Steagall and to the Securities Act,
for they were damming the flow of capital. Leffingwell argued that raising and
distributing capital was the province of those well-versed in fulfilling these
functions, namely investment banks and investment bankers. Glass–Steagall had
attainted experienced and capable borrowers. Making matters worse, the act’s
authors had failed to understand that investment banking was an intermittent
activity. Banks like J.P. Morgan had overcome this problem with a
complementary bread-and-butter banking business that underwrote investment
banking in lean times. Glass–Steagall, with its stricture against mingling
investment and commercial banking, imperilled this sensible arrangement
rendering the edifice of capital origination and distribution far ricketier. The
Securities Act, if less crimping, had nevertheless installed fear in the minds of
those who contemplated lending and borrowing. The liability of directors and
officers should be limited, plaintiffs should be required to post a bond for the
costs of the litigation, and the registration statement and prospectus should be
shortened.
Considering these ideas, Roosevelt redirected the conversation. Leffingwell
had sent Harrison before the New Year a lengthy memorandum on “Gold,
Money and Prices” that formed part of the package of material given to the
president.78 Though Roosevelt viewed Harrison as the instrument of Wall Street,
Leffingwell’s willingness to challenge those pining for a precipitous return to
gold appealed. Meeting with Leffingwell in early February, Roosevelt solicited
suggestions on how interest rates might be lowered. Leffingwell told Roosevelt
that the right way, “the inflationary way,” was to make the Federal Reserve
Banks buy government securities and especially long maturities. Doing so would
not only offer relief on the deficit front; it would produce a decline in interest
rates which were linked to government bond rates. If this was done, it would
Page 359
Page 359
allow business to refinance cheaply, especially when Glass–Steagall and the
Securities Act were amended. The wrong way, Leffingwell informed Roosevelt,
was to proceed “by standstill, moratorium, forced reduction, default,
receivership, foreclosure, and all that ilk.” Leffingwell warned that this would
have a perverse effect, for “by frightening capital … and depreciating bonds and
mortgages” it would move interest rates higher.79 Rates – whether one- to five-
year corporate bonds, federal governments, municipal bonds, United States
Treasury bills, short-term commercial paper, or the FRBNY discount rate – fell
sharply from 1934 to 1935 but this had little to do with Leffingwell’s advice.
Broad-based interest rate reduction rested on the struggling economy, which lost
momentum after 1933. Leffingwell’s embrace of lower rates went
unreciprocated by Roosevelt. Leffingwell pushed the president to allow bankers
and private bankers to continue to underwrite on the grounds that otherwise the
government would have to supply needed capital via the printing press. An
unimpressed Roosevelt rejoined that this would open the door for bankers to
unload securities on captive trust accounts as well as gullible customers.
Leffingwell’s willingness to insert a proviso that bankers must sell securities
through stock exchanges and recognized dealers did not sway the president. Nor
did a direct appeal asking for a year’s grace on the implementation of
Glass–Steagall, postponing a decision until June 1935 rather than June 1934.
The steam went out of Leffingwell’s efforts. Periodically he returned to the
fray, but his letters to Roosevelt demonstrate that he had conceded, and his
protests became less forceful with every sally.80 Leffingwell did not renounce
Roosevelt, defending the administration’s policy at an Academy of Political
Science public event late in March against the attacks of Mills. Forthrightly,
Leffingwell insisted that an “orthodox cheap money” policy would overcome
deflation, observing that “It is clearly premature as yet to count upon a balanced
Page 360
Page 360
budget. The Government cannot and must not let people starve. Nor can it
squeeze blood out of a stone or taxes out of losing business.” Consistent with his
views since 1931, Leffingwell dismissed inflation as a spectre, remarking that he
was “whole-heartedly” behind Roosevelt’s policy of monetary reconstruction.81
The ruction over the Securities Exchange Act early in 1934 displayed the
divide between the Corner and the wider financial community on treating with
the Roosevelt administration. The Morgan partners, though deploying their press
contacts, preferred to try to influence the president directly. Insofar as the
Securities Exchange Act was concerned, while the struggle mobilized much of
the Street in opposition, J.P. Morgan & Co. was not one of the combatants,
appearances notwithstanding. The visibility of Richard Whitney, perhaps the
most prominent leader of the die-hard NYSE faction challenging the proposed
legislation, and the brother of George Whitney, suggested Morgan involvement.
It was assumed that Richard Whitney was voicing, in part, the view of the
Corner. Yet the Morgan gaze was focused on Glass–Steagall and the Securities
Act, not what became the Stock Exchange Act.82 Lamont, forwarding to George
Whitney information received from Herbert Bayard Swope, warned his partner
in February 1934 that his brother was a poor choice if the NYSE hoped to obtain
modification of the proposed legislation. Such a reference is rare in the Morgan
correspondence. Months later Lamont told his long-time friend William North
Duane that J.P. Morgan & Co. was not perturbed by the Stock Exchange Bill
because “[o]ur business is not chiefly Stock Exchange business, and, therefore,
we would be affected only as the general community is affected.” He made it
plain that the Corner had “no part” in the “furore” surrounding the bill.83
Unspoken was acknowledgement that, while Leffingwell was lobbying
Roosevelt on Glass–Steagall, J.P. Morgan & Co. could ill afford to alienate the
Page 361
Page 361
White House with participation in the fight over Stock Exchange regulation.
Time pressed; June 1934 loomed.
Late in May 1934 the Associated Press reported that J.P. Morgan & Co. had
opted for commercial banking rather than investment banking. The New York
Times ran a confirmatory article on its front page on 1 June. Analysing the
decision, the piece paid attention to the existing state of the securities markets,
described as dead or stagnant, while noting that “no definite decision” had been
made at the Corner. Speculation was advanced that perhaps some partners might
leave to form a new securities house, Drexel in Philadelphia might be hived off,
or it was conceivable that the Morgan firm could halt participation in the
investment banking business, make no formal choice, and then re-enter it at
some future date.84 Anderson laid matters out starkly to Cochran: “[t]here really
is nothing going on outside of the ordinary banking business,” observing that
“[w]e have done no security business in this office.”85 Awareness that the bulk
of the bank’s employees, approximately 425, were occupied in routine banking
was a potent consideration. Had the partners chosen investment banking J.P.
Morgan & Co. would have been overstaffed, forcing large-scale redundancies, a
course that was at odds both with the bank’s culture and with any future dream
of rebuilding the bank’s business due to the shedding of expert staff.86 Writing
Charles Steele months later, Lamont made plain the tactical nature of Morgan
compliance:
We all feel, I think, that ways and means will be found to get us back into
the security business, either through the amendment of the existing laws or
through some separate corporate plan or otherwise. We are considering all
these matters now, but have by no means accepted the idea that from June
7, last, we are to be eliminated from the security business.
Page 362
Page 362
These hopes intersected with a tentative rapprochement between the
Roosevelt administration and the banking industry represented by the American
Banking Association (ABA). The ABA had been more hostile toward the New
Deal than J.P. Morgan & Co. Surveying the Hundred Days, an ABA editorial
warned of the National Industrial Recovery Act, “the words are American but
the thought is bearded and strongly Muscovitic.” The same issue featured a
column by the conservative journalist Mark Sullivan who detected a desire to
implement a planned economy. Sullivan was convinced that Roosevelt’s policies
borrowed indiscriminately from European dictatorships: “We are for the time
being, part American and part Russian-Italian-German.”87 Examining the credit
markets in the spring of 1934, the title of an ABA article, “National Credit
Control,” proclaimed banker fears – the New Deal with its panoply of agencies
and its reliance on the RFC was in the process of crowding out “private capital
in the national credit system.”88 The Morgan partners kept their distance from
the ABA, seeing little that was congenial. Leffingwell would later tell Parker
Gilbert and Thomas S. Lamont that the ABA has “often been a bad influence in
American banking” citing its strident opposition to branch banking as
evidence.89 Despite the recrudescence of business opposition to the New Deal
and the resignation of Douglas as Budget Director at the end of August,
Roosevelt’s willingness to speak at the upcoming ABA convention in October
hinted that the divide was not unbridgeable.
Lamont and Leffingwell participated in conversations amid press reports of
corporate skulduggery undermining the New Deal, as the United States Chamber
of Commerce warned that a “general state of apprehension” existed among
businessmen.90 Lamont was a guest at two dinners held in the second half of
September which featured corporate heavyweights – James Perkins of National
City Bank, Clarence Woolley of American Radiator, Gerard Swope of General
Page 363
Page 363
Electric, Alfred Sloan of General Motors, Floyd Carlisle and Alfred Schoellkopf
of Niagara Hudson, and Lewis Brown of Johns-Manville – convened to mull
over business, unemployment, and the New Deal. Perkins, noted for his access to
the White House, hosted the first dinner, while Carlisle took the chair at the
second. Harry Hopkins attended the second gathering on behalf of the
administration, which Swope was unable to make. Those meeting were men with
a willingness to meditate on New Deal heresies. Lamont nevertheless felt
compelled to justify the dinners to Roosevelt in the wake of rumblings that
business was dictating to the White House, composing a memorandum dated 1
October 1934 sent to the president via Davis. Lamont took pains to assure
Roosevelt that business was not seeking to call the tune, stressing that Perkins
wanted to sound out the temper of business with the best interests of the
administration in mind. Lamont’s particular concern, unsurprisingly, was to
defend the banking community and his New York brethren as doing what they
could to support the president’s agenda. Admitting that the banks were flush
with cash, Lamont argued that good loans were unavailable. Hopkins attributed
to Lamont the view that Roosevelt was “the only hope” in American politics for
business.91 Undoubtedly Lamont would have been delighted by this misleading
description, for his allegiance remained Republican.
The day that Davis wrote Roosevelt enclosing Lamont’s memorandum,
Leffingwell met the president in Washington. There ensued an exchange of
letters between the two men on economic recovery that overlapped with
Roosevelt’s appearance at the ABA convention. Roosevelt inquired what effects
a large-scale program of public works designed to put five million to work
would have. Leffingwell did not believe that such spending would accomplish its
aims. Deficit spending did not perturb him; Leffingwell’s fear was that inflation
would follow without reigniting the fires of heavy industry. He raised a familiar
Page 364
Page 364
spectre – such a course would shutter the capital markets permanently through
shunting private capital to the margin. Leffingwell recommended loosening
National Recovery Administration controls and reopening the capital markets.
At Roosevelt’s request, Leffingwell expanded on these themes. He suggested
steps to “hood the Blue Eagle, and ease up on the codes generally, and have few
of them.” On agriculture, Leffingwell argued that, while he agreed with Henry
Wallace that America could not export its agricultural surplus without trade in
manufactured goods, it made no sense to pay farmers to not produce, for it
undercut private initiative. The railroad situation needed to be addressed by
cutting subsidies to other modes of transportation. Broadening the tax base
through the introduction of an income tax akin to that in England was also
desirable. He concluded, “more important than any other thing, the market for
investment capital must be opened up. Without that there can be no private
enterprise, no initiative and no profit to business.” Roosevelt was unimpressed.
Forwarding the correspondence to Frankfurter, he remarked “somehow I feel
strangely cold because I cannot see one constructive thought in either of his
letters – do you?” Frankfurter agreed.92 So ended Leffingwell’s direct attempts
to nudge the White House toward his prescription for economic recovery.
Roosevelt’s disenchantment with Leffingwell followed his admonishment to the
ABA convention that bankers must follow government in the task of rebuilding
the American economy. Scepticism about the genuineness of the ABA’s
willingness to cooperate permeated the White House. While the ABA might
declaim that “[t]he banking and business situation in the United States in these
mid-Autumn days may be considered the soundest it has been for the past three
years … There is less of a spirit of experimentation on the part of the
Government and less of a spirit of intransigence on the part of business,”
reconciliation had already faded when these words were published.93
Page 365
Page 365
*****
At the Corner the confident expressions saluting the New Deal’s handling of the
Depression dissipated. Leffingwell remarked that things “have taken a turn for
the worse.”94 Between March 1933 and September 1935, when Morgan Stanley
was established, the salient characteristic of J.P. Morgan & Co.’s banking
practice was stasis. Some of this arose from the private banker’s ingrained
caution; some of it followed from the battering, both financially and
psychologically, the bank and its partners had taken in the years since 1930;
some of it followed from the grip of the Depression. Some of it, though, was by
choice, brought on by uncertainty surrounding the future. What would the shape
of J.P. Morgan be? That question, which was not resolved until September 1935,
drove a policy of extreme prudence. Frederick Osborn, who had forged an
impressive business career before moving on to the board of the Carnegie
Foundation in the 1930s, discovered this when he attempted to contest
Carnegie’s investments, then directed by Leffingwell: “I didn’t have a very high
opinion of the imaginative ability of J.P. Morgan, as I said. They played
everything very safe.”95 Shortly after Lamont had disputed the assertion that
banks were unwilling to lend in his memorandum to Roosevelt, he wrote Edward
A. Filene, of Filene department store fame. Filene had approached Lamont with
a plan that he was working on to establish a cooperative department store chain.
He wanted Morgan financing to underwrite the scheme. The financing costs
would be discharged out of profits. Morgan staff thought that Filene’s idea might
work. Lamont informed Filene that J.P. Morgan & Co. would not extend
financing, remarking “[t]hese are not like the old days when there were a great
many men with money quite willing to undertake any enterprise because they
felt that if such enterprises were successful they would reap an adequate
profit.”96 Lamont’s spurning of Filene was representative. Loans made by J.P.
Page 366
Page 366
Morgan & Co., which stood at nearly $74 million on 31 March 1933, fell to just
over $53 million on 1 June 1934, before sliding to under $35 million at year’s
end on 31 December 1934. Thereafter, while loans recovered somewhat, the total
resting on the books of the Corner at the end of June 1935 was just over $42
million – 57 per cent of the figure at the end of Roosevelt’s first month in
office.97
It was not simply that the Corner was lending less. The bank was pinned to
the fortune of industries limping under the impact of the Depression. Nowhere
was this more apparent than the railroads. The latter was a “sick industry,” that
had seen freight volumes fall by 50 per cent from 1929 to 1933, employment
rolls decline by 41 per cent, and bankruptcies surge, including the Missouri
Pacific.98 The Missouri Pacific had been placed in the hands of a trustee on 31
March 1933 after the Van Sweringens conceded they could no longer withstand
the strain. At the Pecora hearings Morgan involvement with the Van Sweringens
had absorbed four days of testimony. Consolidation of the railroads was fraught
with complications, chief among them the difficulties of dragging a fractious
industry toward acceptance of a common plan, as Joseph Eastman, Roosevelt’s
federal coordinator of railroads, discovered.99 With the Morgan balance sheet
under pressure, the railroads preoccupied the partners. Their Van Sweringen
exposure was an ulcer. Jack Morgan had sent Woodin two memoranda in March
1933 suggesting ways to improve Interstate Commerce Commission regulation
of the industry, while advocating reducing wages. Neither attracted the support
of the Roosevelt administration. During the halcyon days of the summer of 1933,
the partners indulged in the fancy that the railroad sector was healing as the
economy strengthened.100 As this hope faded, the problem remained.
Morgan sensitivity to the Van Sweringen tie was illustrated by Lamont’s
intervention with Vincent Astor, the publisher of Raymond Moley’s Today
Page 367
Page 367
magazine, when the latter ran an article entitled “Cleveland Whirlpool” that
alleged Morgan loans to the brothers had been saved through the expedient of
coercing the Van Sweringens into furnishing more collateral. Lamont insisted on,
and obtained, a printed correction. Frederick Lewis Allen experienced Morgan
touchiness about the Van Sweringens firsthand. His account of the Morgan–Van
Sweringens relationship in his upcoming book, The Lords of Creation, was
challenged by a fifteen-page-long memorandum composed by Anderson.101
Lamont referred to the “Van Sweringen pyramid” in a memorandum written for
his partners, language that was not heard beyond the walls of the Corner.102
When Charles A. Beard appeared before the Senate Interstate Commerce
Committee on behalf of the Missouri Pacific independent bondholders to argue
that “the Morgan banking syndicate … [has] the power at any time to deprive
the Van Sweringens of their seat at the table and to send them to the bread line,”
he misunderstood the Morgan relationship with the brothers.103 The partners
shackled the Van Sweringens but were in turn cuffed to them. Unlocking these
manacles became ever more desirable with the announcement by Eastman in
July 1935 of an inquiry into the railroads, including the Missouri Pacific, to be
conducted by Senator Burton Wheeler.104 O.P. Van Sweringen’s subsequent
attempt to propose a reorganization of the Missouri Pacific, bruited as having the
sanction of the Corner, attracted strong opposition. The Morgan partners decided
that they could wait no longer – the time had come to end their association with
the brothers, putting the Van Sweringen railroad empire, which the Morgan
banking group had controlled since the default by Alleghany on loan payments
due on 1 May 1935, up for auction. It was not coincidental that excising their
most embarrassing affiliation was juxtaposed with the creation of Morgan
Stanley. Held on the last day of September 1935, the Van Sweringens
Page 368
Page 368
repurchased their lost empire at the auction with a bid of $3.121 million. The
Morgan syndicate absorbed a loss of $43 million.105
As the Depression continued, J.P. Morgan & Co. found refuge in the
harbour of US government securities. Lamont had pointed out in his October
1934 memorandum to the president that banks had made heavy purchases of US
government bonds, observing that Morgan’s holdings had surged by $25 million
in the last four months. This understated what had happened and was in the
process of happening. J.P. Morgan & Co. had slightly more than $146 million in
US government securities on its books at 31 March 1933, a figure that rose to
nearly $170 million at the end of June 1934 before surging to reach $242 million
at the close of the year. A decline in the first quarter of 1935 was soon corrected,
and on 29 June 1935 J.P. Morgan & Co. held more than $255 million of US
governments. Cash, US government securities, and state and municipal bonds
equalled 70 per cent of Morgan assets on 1 June 1934, a proportion that rose to
79 per cent a year later.106 If a Barron’s editorial, entitled “The Case for the
Banks,” observed that such defensiveness was a sectoral affliction, the Wall
Street Journal pointed out just how much of an outlier the investment by the
Corner in US government securities was, far outstripping any competitor.107
Morgan propensity to invest in US government bonds was not a “capital strike,”
designed to pressurize the Roosevelt administration as has sometimes been
charged.108 Morgan was motivated by uncertainty regarding Glass–Steagall.
With reticence guiding, J.P. Morgan & Co. was struggling for profitability. The
arc of surplus and partners’ balances (net worth) was downward: when
Roosevelt entered office, they stood at nearly $45 million, itself a sharp fall from
the lofty figure of almost $119 million at the end of 1929; as of 29 June 1935,
they amounted to just over $30 million. Although deposits rose more or less
Page 369
Page 369
steadily, climbing from nearly $239 million on 31 March 1933 to reach more
than $360 million on 29 June 1935, this was of little comfort.109
Reflecting on the conundrum facing the firm, Lamont wrote his partner
Charles Steele in November 1934. Lamont and Steele had the two largest capital
positions in J.P. Morgan & Co. Reviewing, Lamont stated his conviction that a
way out of the invidious choice forced by Glass–Steagall would be found. For
the moment, he told Steele that Morgan business had been halved due to the
New Deal legislation that exiled the firm from the securities business.
Consequently “we shall, of course, have difficulty showing any substantial
profit” despite Bartow’s skill in managing matters. If the bank was to remain on
an “even-steven” basis, expenditures had to be slashed. Salaries had been
reduced – Bartow had economized to the tune of nearly $1 million. The firm’s
summer camp for employees and their families was shuttered for 1934.110 Rather
than paying 6 per cent on the capital balances, Lamont suggested that the firm
should reduce it to 5 per cent, a change that would pain him and Steele most but
would produce savings of approximately $550,000–$600,000 per year.
Leffingwell, who had been consulted, proffered the view that partners’ drawing
accounts be reduced by another 25 per cent, which would reinforce the stricture
“that personal expenditure must be curtailed.” Jack Morgan had taken this to
heart, aiming to cut his expenditures in the coming year by $60,000 while
keeping his yacht Corsair in dock. The letter concluded, “Jack is on the ocean;
due next Tuesday or Wednesday. He, of course, knows nothing of this
suggestion.”111
Despite the tone of the letter to Steele, Lamont’s belief that J.P. Morgan &
Co. need not accept Glass–Steagall’s stringencies was buoyed by Roosevelt’s
nomination of Marriner Eccles to lead the Federal Reserve Board. Eccles was a
banker from Utah, who had guided his bank through the tumult of the
Page 370
Page 370
Depression before coming to wider attention for his testimony to the Senate
early in 1933. Following a brief sojourn in the Treasury – a perplexing deviation
given the rancour between himself and Henry Morgenthau Jr. – he was put
forward by the president to head the Federal Reserve Board.112 Eccles,
convinced that the Federal Reserve system had been dominated throughout its
existence by the New York financial community, to its detriment, and to the
lasting damage of the American economy, lusted after a transformative project.
Expunging Wall Street’s influence on the Federal Reserve while transferring
power from New York to Washington was his aim. The memorandum that he
submitted to Roosevelt as a condition of taking the job, which declared this
objective, had been drafted by Lauchlin Currie with whom Eccles had worked at
the Treasury and who was to become his assistant at the Federal Reserve.113 The
Eccles proposals, contained in what became the Banking Act of 1935, would
consolidate authority over the Federal Reserve system in a revamped Federal
Reserve Board at the expense of Wall Street and the FRBNY. Critics assailed the
idea as the domination of credit by political partisanship.
The Eccles plan gave the Morgan partners renewed hope of overturning
Glass–Steagall. While they were unsympathetic to Eccles’ ideas, and were
aghast at the idea that Washington should be the new locus of monetary
authority, the struggle offered an opening. Glass, with his fearsome self-
identification with the Federal Reserve, derided Eccles, “this damned ex-
Mormon missionary,” ceaselessly. Glass had long since left his sympathies for
the New Deal behind, convinced that Roosevelt was constructing a personal
dictatorship enabled by men of Eccles’ ilk. Glass conceived of Eccles’ ambitions
as perverting the Federal Reserve system that he had fashioned. His power in the
Senate was such that Glass could not be ignored. Glass found an ally in the
apostate Warburg, who had left the Roosevelt administration and was now
Page 371
Page 371
attacking its policies at every turn, publishing incendiary works excoriating the
New Deal.114 Glass and Warburg were willing to modify Glass–Steagall to
Morgan advantage by either excising or weakening the clauses prohibiting
private bankers from taking deposits while engaged in investment banking. This
was a by-product of their desire to thwart Eccles and the Banking Act rather than
a fundamental principle they believed in.
The Morgan partners chose to stay in the background, appreciating that
Glass and Warburg would make the running. Warburg was aware that bankers
were skittish about the prospect of confronting Eccles, telling Glass before
testifying to his Senate committee that “so far as I can see, there are very few
bankers who are going to take any kind of stand on the proposed legislation.”
Circumspection may have been warranted. The New York Herald Tribune
reported that many bankers were staying on the sidelines because they worried
that if the proposed legislation was defeated what would follow was the
introduction of the so-called Chicago Plan backed by Senator Bronson Cutting
that would mandate 100 per cent reserves for demand deposits.115 This
possibility was more than unpalatable; it was unimaginable given that its
implementation would constrict dramatically banker freedom in lending. The
ABA, in an editorial “Politics Out,” warned against the “political control over
banking” but feared that “selfish obstructionism” to the bill would be the excuse
for some in Washington to propound more radical change.116 The Morgan
partners quietly urged Eccles’ foes on. Jack Morgan, writing Rodd early in July
1935, referred obliquely to both Morgan optimism and Morgan activity: “it
looks more hopeful for ourselves especially. Mr. Lamont will have told you of
his telephone conversations regarding the Banking Bill.”117
Others, however, were also aware of what was at stake. The Nation ran an
article postulating that the legislation was the most important banking bill since
Page 372
Page 372
the Civil War, arguing that it would correct Woodrow Wilson’s failure to
overcome the Money Trust. The Nation asserted that Eccles, in alliance with
Giannini of Bank of America, was doing Roosevelt’s work in bidding to end
Morgan hegemony over “the credit policies of the nation.”118 Harold M.
Fleming, in his weekly column on Wall Street for the Christian Science Monitor,
charted the ebbing of Morgan hopes. Noting that the ABA had shifted to a
neutral stance on the bill, Fleming observed that the clause pertaining to letting
deposit-taking banks underwrite remained contentious. He remarked, “there is
considerable doubt that the president will pass the new feature. It is too
favorable, among other things, to the firm of J.P. Morgan & Co. to be politically
palatable in Washington.” Two weeks later, Fleming signalled that, while the
“prestige of Senator Glass” meant that the Senate version of the legislation
would likely prevail, one aspect would be struck – ending the ban on letting
commercial, deposit-taking banks underwrite.119 The ABA acquiesced, telling its
members after passage of the Banking Act that the “new law is basically sound
and merits confidence on the part of the banks.”120 Though Warburg lauded
Glass for his splendid fight, in truth Eccles had triumphed (see Figure 6.3). The
bill that emerged accomplished what he wanted – the relocation to Washington
of monetary sovereignty in a Federal Reserve system that bridled Harrison, the
FRBNY, and by implication J.P. Morgan & Co.121
Page 373
Page 373
Figure 6.3 President Franklin D. Roosevelt signs the Banking Bill 1935.
From left: Senator Carter Glass; Comptroller of the Currency J.F.T. O’Connor;
Senator Duncan U. Fletcher; Secretary of the Treasury Henry Morgenthau Jr.;
Jesse Jones, Chair of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation; Representative
Henry Steagall; and Governor Marriner Eccles of the Federal Reserve.
Harris & Ewing Collection, Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs
Division, LC-DIG-hec-47151 (digital file from original negative).
The Morgan partners knew defeat when they saw it. Writing his father,
Junius Morgan told him the legislation had emerged from the Senate Finance
Committee without the underwriting clause permitting J.P. Morgan & Co. to re-
enter investment banking. He and Parker Gilbert were sailing on the Europa that
evening to meet Jack Morgan at his Scottish retreat of Gannochy where they
would iron out the last details ensuring that the formation of XYZ corporation
(Morgan Stanley), would go ahead.122 Announcement of Morgan Stanley was
front-page news. Fleming remarked on the “degree of ceremony rare in the
Page 374
Page 374
financial district” with which Lamont made the declaration to reporters. Jack
Morgan was resigned in his letter to Montagu Norman:
By doing this we hope to be able to continue to serve our old clients, and
any suitable new ones … We are assured it is legally sound, and while it’s
most distasteful to me … it seems the only way to accomplish what we
want at present … If and when a certain amount of freedom returns … we
can undo this easily and go on as before.123
Morgan Stanley began life with Harold Stanley, Harry Morgan, and
William Ewing as its guiding triumvirate, joined by two Drexel & Co. partners,
Perry E. Hall and Edward H. York Jr. Two senior staff, John M. Young and A.N.
Jones, respectively the managers of the bond and statistical departments, also
transferred. Capitalized at $7.5 million, Morgan Stanley was private, its common
and preferred shares held entirely by the officers of the new bank and by the
senior J.P. Morgan & Co. partners, including Jack Morgan, Lamont, and Steele.
If the appearance of Morgan Stanley was the most wrenching manifestation of
imposed change, it was not singular. Earlier, the long-standing relationship with
Morgan Grenfell in London, heartfelt to Jack Morgan, was transformed in
compliance with Glass–Steagall. Fearing that its existing partnership structure
would enmesh J.P. Morgan & Co. in unwanted complications, from June 1934
Morgan Grenfell became a private limited company in which J.P. Morgan & Co.
held shares. The New York partners were no longer partners in London. Only
Jack Morgan was a director, with the remaining board consisting of the resident
Morgan Grenfell partners. Though a similar change was mooted vis-à-vis
Morgan & Cie. in Paris, this proved unnecessary, for unlike Morgan Grenfell, the
Paris house did not issue securities.124 A quiet revolution had also taken place in
leadership. Jack Morgan’s acknowledgement at the Pecora hearings that he was
Page 375
Page 375
semi-retired was offset by his public prominence during the hearings; Lamont’s
letter to Steele revealed the reality of the firm’s internal power dynamic. The J.P.
Morgan & Co. that continued from September 1935 was distinct from the firm
that had existed before Glass–Steagall even if the name and partnership
continued. This transformation was not understood by outsiders, who continued
to see the Morgan bank as unreconstructed. Nowhere was this more apparent
than in politics.
******
Toward the end of March 1935 Jack Morgan received a letter from an unknown
correspondent, F.W. Muth. Muth asked why J.P. Morgan & Co. had abdicated its
responsibility to lead America out of the trough of Depression. He claimed that
many of his acquaintances were as mystified as he by Morgan inaction. Muth’s
plaintive inquiry spoke to an abiding conviction that J.P. Morgan & Co. tapped
out the rhythms of American economic life. Muth’s puzzlement was genuine,
fostered by certainty that the Morgan firm would set a positive beat. Others,
while agreeing that J.P. Morgan & Co. was at the centre of things, reached very
different conclusions. During the debate on the Banking Act of 1935 Glass was
threatened:
You will die an early death if you block confirmation of Mr. Eccles as
Governor for the Federal Reserve Board. You are also fighting the bill to
create a gov’t controlled Central Bank to take control of money matters out
of the hands of Morgan. How much are you getting from Morgan to be his
office boy and faithful stool pigeon?
The letter writer(s) accused Glass and J.P. Morgan & Co. of fomenting the
Depression and of plotting to begin another world war as an escape from
economic calamity. Glass was warned that he was being watched. The letter
Page 376
Page 376
concluded, “Down WITH ALL TYRANTS.” It was signed “The GET RID OF
MORGAN SOCIETY.”125
There is no reason to think that any such society existed beyond the
imaginings of the letter writer(s). Through the 1920s animosity toward J.P.
Morgan & Co. had been tempered by economic prosperity. After 1929 the
Hoover administration, though its relationship with the Corner was strained, had
sheltered J.P. Morgan & Co. from the political winds. The advent of Roosevelt,
followed by the Pecora hearings, tore away the protective presidential covering.
Those like Muth who were well-disposed to the Morgan firm signalled their
perturbation with polite, anxious letters. However, as the Get Rid of Morgan
Society letter made plain, one retelling of American catastrophe assigned
culpability to Wall Street in alliance with nefarious international bankers, as
expounded by Father Coughlin and Huey Long. What made Coughlin and Long
distinctive was less their message, which channelled long-standing grievances,
albeit blended in a new way, but rather their skilful use of media as the means to
disseminate that message to a much larger audience.126 American populism
reached every corner of the nation with radio. If neither man implied violence as
openly as the Get Rid of Morgan Society author(s), Coughlin and Long wanted
to see Wall Street bankers fettered.
Coughlin, whose radio audience burgeoned from the summer of 1930, and
Long, who entered the Senate in 1931, targeted bankers in their addresses and
speeches. The local community banker was not the object of complaint. Money-
centre banks, New York banks, Wall Street banks, conflated and jumbled, were
their butt. As Alan Brinkley has noted, this did not mean that the two thought
identically. Coughlin focused his arrows on those who he believed controlled the
financial system, a group consisting largely of bankers but also encompassing
men such as Andrew Mellon and Ogden Mills. Long’s shots spattered more
widely, landing on the wealthy generally, such as the Rockefellers and Du Ponts.
Page 377
Page 377
Long, as his subsequent National Share Our Wealth society showed, evinced a
conception of American equality that was more far-reaching than Coughlin’s,
though neither Long nor Coughlin were systematic thinkers. Both charged that
the Depression was due to the fecklessness of the elite, even if underlying it
were the problems of modernity associated with the transition to an
industrialized society. Insidious forces headquartered in London, the
“international bankers,” working with Wall Street, had gulled the United States.
American participation in the world war was due to their conniving. Nor had this
malignant influence ended with peace; if Coughlin and Long supported
Roosevelt in 1932, they soon came to see his administration as in thrall to the
bankers.127
Before 1933 there is little to suggest that the Morgan partners perceived
either Coughlin or Long as a threat. This changed. Late in November 1933
before an audience estimated at 6,000–7,000 in a packed New York
Hippodrome, Coughlin charged that the “Wall Street and Morgan attack on the
Administration” was designed to “ruin Mr. Roosevelt and build up Ogden Mills
for president in 1936.” He asked his listeners to boycott newspapers that
supported Wall Street. Al Smith, Hoover’s Democratic opponent in the 1928
presidential election and at odds with Roosevelt, was, Coughlin declared,
complicit in this unholy alliance against the New Deal. Over the next two weeks
Coughlin told his radio audience that he had “entered the lists against
Morganism” with the aim of combatting “their financial imperialism” and
resisting “their domination and dictatorship in the economic sphere.” Slavish
Morgan adherence to the gold standard, Coughlin alleged, was responsible for
the Depression. Morgan, he went on, dictated the hours and wages paid in
various industries. The Morgan bank was, Coughlin intoned, the “gold-standard
capitalist.”128 The Morgan partners were unsure how to respond. “Poisonous”
Page 378
Page 378
Coughlin might be but his massive audience required caution. Lamont and
Leffingwell drafted a rebuttal to an earlier Coughlin address in which the radio
priest had described the firm as opponents of New Deal monetary policies. At
length the partners decided not to send it, fearing that to do so would only make
matters worse. This pattern – provocation by Coughlin, dalliance with the
temptation of responding, and then ultimately silence from the Corner –
continued as Coughlin broadened his attacks, focusing increasingly on the
intersection of domestic and foreign policy. Addressing a crowd of 18,000 at a
sold-out Madison Square Garden on 22 May 1935, Coughlin labelled Jack
Morgan “the fiscal agent of Great Britain, the master mind behind the Federal
Reserve Bank.”129 Again the partners declined to reply. Morgan forbearance was
motivated in part because, while the partners recognized the appeal of fighting
fire with fire, there might be undesirable consequences. When another cleric, the
Philadelphia Reverend John Clover Monsma, offered a countervailing set of
sermons on radio if J.P. Morgan & Co. would fund him, he was declined.130
Inciting a conflict between the Catholic Father Coughlin and the Presbyterian
Reverend Monsma was perilous. Making such a choice easier was the Morgan
understanding that the divide between Coughlin and the Roosevelt
administration was widening with every passing month as the radio priest chafed
at his lack of influence with the White House. Coughlin annoyed the partners;
but Morgan hopes of overturning Glass–Steagall rested in Roosevelt.
Long’s populism posed a greater menace in that his control of Louisiana
politics buttressed by his senatorial position furnished a platform for a
presidential bid in 1936. His establishment of the National Share Our Wealth
society early in 1934 signalled a move in this direction, accompanied shortly
thereafter by a definitive break from Roosevelt. Long did not hide his intention
to tackle the “Masters of Finance,” as the Morgan partners were labelled in his
Page 379
Page 379
posthumously published tract, My First Days in the White House, rushed into
print after his assassination in September 1935. The book imagined a
confrontation between Long, the newly elected president, and a Wall Street
overawed by his most implacable, obstinate foe – Jack Morgan. While most
plutocrats soon fell into line, J.P. Morgan & Co. continued to oppose
redistribution of American wealth. Aided by John D. Rockefeller Jr., whom
Long had appointed as Chair of the National Share Our Wealth Committee and
to whose side flocked Mellon, Young, Charles M. Schwab, Baruch, Aldrich, and
even Henry Ford, Jack Morgan’s defiance was overcome and the way opened to
the creation of an American utopia.131 Fanciful as it was, the tale drives home
the moral that, for Long, J.P. Morgan & Co. was the bedrock of obdurate
American capitalism. If in Coughlin’s case the Morgan partners flirted with
challenging his claims publicly, there was no idea of engaging with the Kingfish.
The Morgan attitude toward Long was careful, for his interrogation of Lamont
during the Pecora hearings had demonstrated Long’s agility as a questioner. Yet
Long was an outlier in the Senate with few allies and fewer friends. While there
existed a substantial senatorial cohort chary of J.P. Morgan & Co., seeing the
bank as the ruler of an exploitative eastern capitalism that was alternately
hostile, indifferent, and ignorant to the United States beyond the Mississippi,
men such as William Borah of Idaho, Edward Costigan of Colorado, Hiram
Johnson of California, Robert La Follette Jr. of Wisconsin, Gerald Nye of North
Dakota, Elbert Thomas of Utah, and Burton Wheeler of Montana were not
inclined to follow the Kingfish. The threat represented by Long’s demagoguery,
though it persisted in the shape of his acolyte Gerald K. Smith, rested on the
possibility that Long might become president – and died with him.
Coughlin and Long, however, were material in shaping Roosevelt’s
political stance toward Wall Street. Writing in the New York Times in June 1935
Page 380
Page 380
Delbert Clark observed:
At the extreme left are the Pied Pipers, playing strange music that fascinates
as it repels. By swinging definitely to what his conservative opponents term
the left, Mr. Roosevelt is in a fair position to drown out the piping of Long,
Coughlin and company. If the country really wants more liberalism, his
advisers hold, the best opposition he can have is that of “Wall Street,” and
this opposition he can have and retain by such measures as the Banking
Bill, the Wagner Labor Relations Bill, and the Holding Company Bill.132
Supplementing these bills were the Revenue Act of 1935, popularly known as
the “Wealth Tax Act” or the “Soak the Rich” tax. The latter served Roosevelt
well, masking the failure to make the American tax system more progressive and
redistributive through a symbolic assault on “economic royalists.” The top 1 per
cent, including the Morgan partners, paid more, but few others did.133 The ABA,
its minuet with Roosevelt ended, in the fall of 1935 took up a more obstructive
course, criticizing the president sharply. He in turn attacked “entrenched greed,”
referencing anew the “unscrupulous money-changers” in his annual message to
Congress in January 1936.134 As one historian has put it, the “mailed fist of open
political warfare” was adopted by Roosevelt in his dealings with the business
community in 1935–36.135 His fiery re-nomination speech in Philadelphia with
its savaging of the enduring power of “economic tyranny” stressed that the New
Deal had not finished its tasks.136 It was precisely this prospect that excited the
animosity of much of the business and financial community who saw in a second
Roosevelt triumph the destruction of American capitalism.
For J.P. Morgan & Co., what mattered was Glass–Steagall. Under its
impact, the Morgan partners either had their faith shaken or lost faith in the New
Deal, wondering if its aims were more far-reaching. Leffingwell ruminated:
Page 381
Page 381
“This whole thing [the New Deal] is not an attack on J.P. Morgan & Co., but an
attack on our social order and incidentally upon J.P. Morgan & Co.”137
Leffingwell’s remarks might be dismissed as little more than puffery save
that some contemporaries thought similarly. The “Unofficial Observer” (John
Franklin Carter), a fierce critic of the Corner, remarked in his 1934 book The
New Dealers, “The bankers … are the center of power of the Old Order which is
being displaced by the New Deal. If Roosevelt can establish social control over
the whole credit system, the victory of the New Deal is half won.”138 It was in
this vein that Leffingwell wrote Lippmann in the spring of 1935 that
so long as the Administration lends the great weight of its authority to the
doctrine that not merely the bankers but the business leaders in all fields are
contemptible and untrustworthy … then the average man will conclude that
it is wrong in not proceeding further to the left, to Senator Huey Long and
Father Coughlin.
He feared that Roosevelt’s administration was “gradually undermining the
capitalist system.” Lippmann thought Leffingwell’s apprehensions overwrought,
though he agreed that the New Deal was showing itself to be less and less
friendly to business.139
If Leffingwell worried, Morgan trepidations tumbled out in Jack Morgan’s
reply to Muth. Inquiries commissioned by the bank had revealed that Muth was a
solid citizen from a good family and might well be a Republican. Jack Morgan
told Muth that his missive had affected him “very deeply.” He and his partners
were filled with “pain and grief” at their “helplessness.” The explanation for
Morgan passivity, Jack Morgan explained, lay in the New Deal’s legislation.
Regrettably, “the active stand which you call for is … utterly impossible,”
lamenting that J.P. Morgan & Co. was “the center of the attack.”140
Page 382
Page 382
If this letter was crafted by various hands it rings true as an approximation
of Jack Morgan’s views. Between 1934 and 1935 Jack Morgan became a bitter
critic of the New Deal, penning comments in his private correspondence that
expressed his antipathies, as when he wrote a relative in June 1936 to complain
about “Roosevelt and his Jew counsel” inhibiting recovery.141 Increasingly he
fulminated about what he saw as Roosevelt’s predilection for dictatorship. When
Childs remarked in May 1936 on “the fanatical hatred of the President which
today obsesses thousands of men and women among the American upper class”
he did not have Jack Morgan in mind specifically, but the description fit.142 The
most persuasive explanation for Jack Morgan’s animosity is that the New Deal
threatened J.P. Morgan & Co. – the bank of his father, his bank since 1913.
Lamont, ever careful, was opposed to the New Deal and his partner Whitney was
of like mind. Those close to both knew how deep their private feelings ran;
ascertaining the attitudes of the other Morgan partners is more difficult.143 Given
that most were Republicans and Glass–Steagall threatened the breakup of J.P.
Morgan & Co., why did the Morgan partners not move whole-heartedly into
opposition against the New Deal if they believed they were the “center of the
attack”?
The journalist George Sokolsky proffered one explanation. Writing in the
Washington Post, he posited that the appeal of fascism was on the rise among
capitalists disenchanted with the New Deal, unhappy with Republicanism, and
fearing communism. Fundamentally, Sokolsky opined, capitalists like J.P.
Morgan & Co. were “cowardly” and “paralyzed in the face of mass agitation.”
Wall Street welcomed fascism, because of “the success of industrialists and
financiers in Italy and Germany in their control of Fascist governments.”144
Morgan inaction thus followed from the hope that fascism was on the march in
the United States. Such a reading misunderstood the Morgan partners – they had
Page 383
Page 383
no brief for fascism even if they had done business with Mussolini and were
slow to distant themselves from his regime. Fascism’s appeals fell on deaf ears
at the Corner. The Morgan partners believed in American enterprise, American
government, and American liberty as testified to by Lamont’s contemptuous
rejection of feelers from representatives of Oswald Mosely.
The curious affair involving Major General Smedley D. Butler, a marine
accused of being complicit in a murky coup d’état against the Roosevelt
administration in the fall of 1934, strengthens this interpretation. Lamont’s name
was advanced as one of the putative backers of a plot redolent with fascist
echoes of the March on Rome in 1922.145 Lost in the fog was that the stated
desire of the plotters – to restore the gold standard to the United States, thus
repairing the damage done by the Roosevelt administration to American
economic well-being – was at odds with the Morgan embrace of Roosevelt’s
monetary policy. J.P. Morgan & Co. had been the first on Wall Street to
congratulate Roosevelt on leaving gold in 1933 and in the years after did not
waver from the conviction that this had been the correct step. The Morgan
partners were hardly likely to finance a comic-opera coup devoted to restoration
of a gold standard that they had repudiated publicly. There were those in
American life in the 1930s who self-identified as fascist, or aspired to it, or
sought to ape it, or wanted its triumph, but they were not located in the
Corner.146
The American Liberty League might have been thought to have been a
natural vehicle for the Morgan partners to express their discontent. Though the
League’s professed intent was non-partisan, it was apparent from the beginning
that its architects conceived of its purpose as combatting the New Deal. While
many of the corporate and political chieftains who flocked to the standard raised
by the Du Ponts were well-known to the Morgan partners, it was Davis, a
Page 384
Page 384
personal friend of Jack Morgan, Lamont, and Whitney, who became one of the
driving forces of the League. Davis’ biographer attributed to the latter an
influence that “brought in about half the Morgan firm” to the League.147 Yet
tellingly, no Morgan partner played a substantive role within the Liberty League;
none sat on its executive committee, assisted in policy development,
propagandized on its behalf, or advanced large sums for its purposes. Some
Morgan donations found their way to League’s coffers, though the amounts were
dwarfed by the largesse provided by the Du Ponts who were the organization’s
paymasters. During the 1936 campaign the Democratic National Committee
issued a pamphlet, “Who’s Who in the American Liberty League,” that strained
to make a connection between J.P. Morgan & Co., the Du Ponts, and the League.
Unable to show direct Morgan engagement with the League, the pamphlet noted
that Davis was the Morgan lawyer. While it is tempting to suggest that Morgan
unwillingness to become involved meaningfully in the American Liberty League
arose from a prescient appreciation of its elite nature and its consequent lack of
appeal to Americans, this affords too much credit to the Morgan partners. Fear of
discarding the bank’s cherished avoidance of affiliation with sectarian politics,
despite the more or less open understanding that the partners skewed
Republican, was at work. So too was fear of another kind – alienating unduly the
White House until the last hope for revision of Glass–Steagall had been dashed.
Certainly, the Morgan partners were not skittish about making political
contributions – Senator Hugo Black placed the giving of the wider J.P. Morgan
& Co. firm in April 1936 at $68,226 to various groups, including the Sentinels of
the Republic, a right-wing organization permeated by anti-Semitism that was
opposed vociferously to the New Deal’s expansion of government. E.T.
Stotesbury, the senior Drexel partner in Philadelphia, was a principal benefactor
of the Sentinels.148 Of the New York partners, Jack Morgan was the chief
Page 385
Page 385
contributor to the political foes of the New Deal. He gave $50,000 to the
Republican effort in the 1936 presidential and congressional elections,
distributed in parcels of $5,000 to various Republican committees from the local
to the national level. This generosity was in spite of the Morgan distaste for Alf
Landon, the Governor of Kansas, and the Republican presidential nominee in
1936, who during the Pecora hearings had referred dismissively to “[r]acketeers
like Insull, Morgan and Van Sweringen.”149 Other Morgan partners, such as
Steele, Whitney, Harry Morgan, and Ewing, donated lesser amounts to the
Republican effort in 1936. Noteworthy was the absence of Lamont, whose name
did not appear as contributing more than $1,000 to the Republican National
Committee in 1936. Leffingwell and Parker Gilbert, the firm’s resident
Democrats, were never prepared to contribute to Republican causes.
*****
By 1936 the New Deal was three years old, old enough for disenchantment,
frustration, and vituperation to supplant the enthusiastic welcome with which
business had showered Roosevelt in March 1933. Writing as the 1936
presidential campaign was in full swing, Elliott Bell pondered the “wide rift”
between Roosevelt and business. Its origins, he thought, went back to the
inaugural address. Running through the years since 1933, Wall Street believed,
was a sustained assault designed to recast American capitalism in a new mould.
The New Dealers for their part scoffed, countering that the Street resented the
loss of its power. Roosevelt himself was seen negatively, his language toward the
financial community animated by a “punitive spirit.” Bell concluded that the
chances of a rapprochement between Wall Street and the president were
“remote.”150 Two weeks after Bell’s analysis, Leffingwell called on Roosevelt to
cease his attack on businessmen and bankers, observing that, while “scapegoats”
were understandable in crisis in 1933, the continuance of a rhetoric of “money
Page 386
Page 386
changers and economic royalists” was harmful.151 Doing so threatened public
harmony. Roosevelt was neither dissuaded nor perturbed by Leffingwell’s
complaint; he asked his secretary Marvin McIntyre to remind him to reply to
Leffingwell at a future date. The Democratic presidential campaign continued in
the same vein.
Swaying Roosevelt proved impossible for J.P. Morgan & Co. During the
opening months of the New Deal, Lamont and Leffingwell had proved unable to
cajole the president to their line of thinking. Roosevelt neither wanted nor
needed J.P. Morgan & Co. as an ally, appreciating how deep-seated hostility
toward the Corner was among Americans. He was not inclined to pursue the
gradualist Morgan advice on how to remedy the Depression, even if the balance
of his deflationary versus inflationary impulses accorded well with Leffingwell’s
thoughts. Pecora made it possible for Roosevelt to distance himself from the
Morgan partners without severing the tie completely. Roosevelt continued to
solicit and listen to the advice of Leffingwell for some months, a reflection of the
president’s willingness to receive advice from many quarters. At the Corner this
receptiveness was misunderstood – it was not appreciated that Roosevelt was not
interested in what mattered most to the partners, namely Glass–Steagall, but was
interested in gleaning ideas. From late 1934 the attractiveness of Morgan
wisdom palled, as Roosevelt distanced himself from an American business
community that he deemed incorrigible. For the Morgan partners, this
development was bracing. Scrambling to preserve J.P. Morgan & Co. intact, they
became what they had never been, and what critics alleged – stewards of a
parochial interest. Leffingwell and his partners did not forget the ongoing
Depression and the crisis of capitalism; but they were overwhelmed by their
fears for the future of J.P. Morgan & Co.
Page 387
Page 387
Feeding apprehension was the Morgan banking business. Since 1931
retrenchment had been the order of the day at the Corner. Hope of a rebound
bloomed in 1933 with the advent of the New Deal and continued into 1934.
Optimism, however, rested in part on the assumption that the Roosevelt
administration would see the virtue in modifying Glass–Steagall. The Morgan
partners believed doing otherwise was contrary to the restoration of American
prosperity: what was good for the Morgan bank was good for the country.
Restoring the capital markets as they had existed before Glass–Steagall and
before the Securities Act would benefit both the nation and J.P. Morgan & Co.
Until that occurred, having suffered grievously before March 1933, the partners
were risk-averse, embraced conservatism in their investments, and were not
willing to lend until a positive manifestation of change, defined as revision of
Glass–Steagall, occurred. Waiting exacted a toll. J.P. Morgan & Co. was
struggling – loans fell, partner net worth declined, and assets became more and
more vested in US government securities. Morgan capital did not go on strike; it
retreated until certainty over the future structure of the bank was clear.
The politics of Roosevelt’s first term were wrenching for the Morgan
partners. Used to being listened to in the halls of Washington, astounded that
they were supplicants, the partners found themselves marginalized even as
Pecora dramatized their influence while Coughlin, Long, and their imitators
trumpeted the dangers of Morgan power. The Morgan reaction was not to
embrace opposition of the kind championed by the American Liberty League.
Days before he called on Roosevelt to modulate his remarks about business,
Leffingwell wrote Lamont. Defending his continued support of Roosevelt, he
declared:
Roosevelt’s sayings and doings have distressed me beyond measure time
and again. But he did follow the principal major monetary policy which I
Page 388
Page 388
believed in and urged in every way I knew how. He did pull the country out
of the slough. He did save our people. He did save capitalism.152
The letter exposed how crisis and the politics of the New Deal had shaken
the Corner. Partnership as practised under Jack Morgan’s leadership rested on
consensus but the Morgan partners were not of one mind about the New Deal.
Pecora bothered; Glass–Steagall was abhorrent; the Banking Act of 1935 was
unwarranted. On these issues the partners were united. Yet this did not mean that
in the Depression crisis J.P. Morgan & Co. was prepared to abandon capitalism
because most of the partners disliked Roosevelt’s New Deal. What mattered was
that liberal, democratic capitalism had survived and so too had the Morgan bank
even if adaptation meant division with the creation of Morgan Stanley.
Accordingly, Roosevelt’s re-election in 1936 produced resigned acceptance, not
rejection, at the Corner.153
1 The literature on the New Deal is massive. The classic accounts are
Schlesinger, The Coming of the New Deal, and The Politics of Upheaval,
Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1960, and William E. Leuchtenberg, Franklin D.
Roosevelt and the New Deal, 1932–1940, New York: Harper Torchbooks,
1963. Anthony Badger, FDR: The First Hundred Days, New York: Hill and
Wang, 2008, is a very good short study. On bankers, see Helen Burns, The
American Banking Community and New Deal Banking Reforms 1933–1935,
Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1974.
2 Eugene Lokey, “Along the Highways of Finance,” New York Times, 28 May
1933, N 11.
3 For a different view of the American economy in the 1930s, see Alexander J.
Field, A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S. Economic Growth,
New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2011.
Page 389
Page 389
4 Leffingwell to Lamont, 25 July 1934, YUL, RCL, Series 1, Box 4, Custom
96.
5 Patrick Reagan has made the point on the lack of business studies. See
Patrick Reagan, “Business.” For an overview of the Du Ponts and the
American Liberty League, see George Wolfskill, The Revolt of the
Conservatives: A History of American Liberty League, 1934–1940, Boston:
Houghton Mifflin, 1962; more recently, Kim Fein-Phillips, Invisible Hands:
The Making of the Conservative Movement from the New Deal to Reagan,
New York: W.W. Norton, 2009, pp. 3–25. For business support of the New
Deal, Kim McQuaid, “Corporate Liberalism in the American Business
Community, 1920–1940,” Business History Review, 1978, vol. 52, pp.
342–68, and the biography of Young by Case and Case, Owen D. Young. Ellis
Hawley, The New Deal and the Problem of Monopoly, Princeton, NJ:
Princeton University Press, 1966 is the canonical overview.
6 Burns, The American Banking Community and New Deal Banking Reforms,
p. 182.
7 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan Grenfell and Morgan & Cie., 15 March 1933,
TML, CP, Box 19, Folder Morgan & Co. – MG & Co. Misc Private Telegs 2
September 1932 to March 1933. Lamont wrote Dean Jay on 16 March 1933 in
a more restrained, albeit still positive, tone. Lamont to Dean Jay, 16 March
1933, NDJ, Knox College.
8 Alexander Dana Noyes, The Market Place, Boston: Little, Brown and
Company, 1938, p. 366.
9 Lamont to Fummi, 17 March 1933, TML, CP, Box 9, Morgan & Co. –
Banking Situation and Crisis, 1930–33, File 2.
Page 390
Page 390
10 Coverage of Aldrich’s comments was widespread. All of the leading New
York papers featured his remarks prominently. The New York Times report was
on p. 1 on 9 March 1933, with a follow-up article the next day, “Aldrich
Proposal Stirs Private Banks,” New York Times, 10 March 1933, p. 27.
11 Lamont to Fleishacker, 24 January 1933, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 93,
Folder 25.
12 The New York Times, the New York American, and the New York World
Telegram drew this inference, as did The New Republic, Vol. 74, no. 955, 22
March 1933, p. 142. One magazine, Real America, declared that what was at
stake was a struggle between Rockefeller and Morgan interests for the control
of the world’s oil supply. Parker Gilbert to Lamont, 12 June 1933, BL, TWL,
Series II, Box 96, Folder 4.
13 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Fummi, 15 March 1933, TML, CP, Box 9, Morgan &
Co. – Banking Situation and Crisis, 1930–1933, File 2; the argument made in
Alexander Tabarrok, “The Separation of Commercial and Investment
Banking: The Morgans vs. The Rockefellers,” The Quarterly Journal of
Austrian Economics, vol. 1, no. 1 (1998), pp. 1–16, is not credible. Tabarrok
did not have access to the Morgan archives.
14 Arthur M. Johnson, Winthrop W. Aldrich: Lawyer, Banker, Diplomat,
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1968, pp. 149–52.
15 Leffingwell to Glass, 16 March 1933, UVA, Glass MS, Series I, Box 37,
Russell C. Leffingwell to Carter Glass.
16 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 6 May 1933, TML, CP, Box 19,
Folder Morgan & Co. – MG & Co. Misc Private Telegs 10 April to 4
December 1933. For an argument that fiscal conservatism was integral to
Roosevelt’s New Deal, stressing the role of Lewis Douglas and Henry
Page 391
Page 391
Morgenthau Jr., see Julian E. Zelizer, “The Forgotten Legacy of the New
Deal: Fiscal Conservatism and the Roosevelt Administration, 1933–1938,”
Presidential Studies Quarterly, vol. 30, no. 2 (2000), pp. 331–58.
17 Lamont phoned Noyes and then forwarded to him a memorandum. Lamont
to Noyes, 10 March 1933, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 80, Folder 13.
18 Lamont to Roosevelt, 14 March 1933, 20 March 1933, BL, TWL, Series II,
Box 127, Folder 21. Both of these messages on New York City went through
Margaret (Missy) Lehand to the president. The second asked for an interview.
19 Notes, Lamont visit to Washington, 23 March 1933, BL, TWL, Series V,
Box 211, Folder 13, p. 337 states that John W. Davis accompanied Lamont to
the meeting with Woodin.
20 Lamont claimed that J.P. Morgan & Co. had done this by “holding their
foreign deposits.” It is not clear what he meant by this reference; he may have
been alluding to the strain that the Chase was under in the fall of 1931 when
rumours were circulating on the Street and in Europe that leading New York
banks were in danger. Wilson in his study of Chase, The Chase: The Chase
Manhattan Bank, 1945–1985, admits that the bank was hit hard by the
Depression but does not suggest that it came close to failing nor is there any
indication in the Johnson biography of Aldrich of this peril.
21 Lamont, The Ambassador, pp. 338–39, prints chunks of the Lamont notes
on his talk with Roosevelt. The original notes, which are in Lamont’s long
hand, should be consulted for completeness. TWL visit to Washington, 23
March 1933, BL, TWL, Series V, Box 211, Folder 13.
22 Lamont to Roosevelt, 27 March 1933, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 127, Folder
31.
Page 392
Page 392
23 Lamont to Roosevelt, 11 April 1933, 18 April, 12 May, BL, TWL, Series II,
Box 127, Folder 22. The issue was not settled until the fall when a
comprehensive debt agreement was forged. The text of the agreement between
the banking group and the City is reprinted in the New York Times, 1
November 1933, p. 40.
24 Jones, Fifty Billion Dollars, pp. 23–25.
25 The Harriman case may be followed in the Harrison papers, 28 March
1933, 29 March 1933, 9 April 1933, 10 April 1933, FRBNY, Harrison papers,
2610.1. The New York Times, among other papers, followed the story closely.
Harriman dragged on for years, with lawsuits threatened by aggrieved
depositors.
26 Schlesinger, The Coming of the New Deal, p. 202.
27 “Washington Notes,” The New Republic, vol. 74, no. 961, 3 May 1933, p.
333.
28 Martin Horn, “J.P. Morgan & Co., the House of Morgan and Europe
1933–1939,” Contemporary European History, 14, no. 4 (2005), pp. 524–25.
29 Leffingwell to Dean Jay, 31 March 1933, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4,
Folder 83.
30 The Economy Bill was the work primarily of Lewis Douglas but had
Roosevelt’s backing. Among other measures it cut federal salaries by 15 per
cent. Robert Paul Browder and Thomas G. Smith, Independent: A Biography
of Lewis Douglas, New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1986, pp. 86–87.
31 Leuchtenburg, Franklin D. Roosevelt and the New Deal, p. 47.
32 Warburg interview, CUL, COHC, p. 87.
Page 393
Page 393
33 Frankfurter to Lippmann, 11 March 1933, Max Freedman ed., Roosevelt
and Frankfurter: Their Correspondence, 1928–1945, Boston: Little, Brown,
1967, pp. 116–17.
34 Lamont, The Ambassador, pp. 336–37, reproduces a substantial chunk of
the editorial. A copy may be found in Lamont to William Randolph Hearst, 13
March 1933, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 98, Folder 3.
35 Schlesinger, The Politics of Upheaval, pp. 54–55.
36 “Regulation and Recovery,” Barron’s, 8 May 1933, p. 10.
37 Leffingwell to Dean Jay, 31 March 1933, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4,
Folder 83.
38 An example of a well-informed tip was an anonymous writer who
suggested that Pecora’s investigators look closely at the ties between J.P.
Morgan & Co. and the Metropolitan Museum of Art and leading newspapers,
particularly the New York Herald Tribune. No. 12, 23 March 1933, CLA,
NARA, RG 46, Sen 73A-F3, Investigation of Stock Exchange Practices
(Pecora Committee), Box 138, Remedies-General A-G.
39 Marrinan to Pecora, 15 May 1933, CLA, NARA, Sen 73A-F3, Investigation
of Stock Exchange Practices (Pecora Committee), Box 130, E.W. Marland.
40 Fletcher to Ferdinand Pecora, 5 April 1933; Pecora to Fletcher, 6 April
1933, CLA, NARA, RG 46, Sen 73A-F3, Investigation of Stock Exchange
Practices (Pecora Committee), Box 143, World War I. Marrinan had sent
Fletcher a memorandum advancing the idea, arising from Untermyer and
others.
41 The other four days were devoted to the testimony of O.P. van Sweringen,
chiefly on Alleghany Corporation.
Page 394
Page 394
42 The Christian Science Monitor, 23 May 1933, p. 1. remarked of the
opening day, “A crowd unprecedented in the annals of such Senate committee
investigations lined the outside corridors of the Senate Office Building and
jammed the big committee room, as flashlight and motion picture cameras
recorded the event.” The New York Times, 26 May 1933, p. 14.
43 “Washington Notes,” The New Republic, vol. 75, no. 966, 7 June 1933, p.
98.
44 Pecora Committee, 23 May 1933, p. 11.
45 “Morgan assets, deposits compared with 10 banks,” Wall Street Journal, 24
May 1933, p. 13. The header to the table remarked that it “shows the relation
which the firm bears in size to the commercial banks of New York.” “Morgan
Holdings Surprise Wall St.,” New York Times, 24 May 1933, p. 16, observed
the severe fall in deposits.
46 “Morgan Holds Private Banker fills Big Need,” Christian Science Monitor,
23 May 1933, p. 1.
47 Lawrence Brown to Stephen Raushenbush, 6 December 1935, CLA,
NARA, RG 46, 74th Congress, Special Committee Investigating the
Munitions Industry, Box 323, Brief 240.
48 Pecora Committee, 24 May 1933, pp. 138–46.
49 Pecora Committee, 25 May 1933, pp. 174–75.
50 See the jousting between Pecora and Keyes, Pecora Committee, 23 May
1933, pp. 77–87.
51 “Rich Men Pay No Tax,” Washington Post, 24 May 1933, p. 6.
Page 395
Page 395
52 Marrinan to Pecora, 29 April 1933, CLA, NARA, RG 46, Sen 73A-F3,
Investigation of Stock Exchange Practices (Pecora Committee), Box 141,
United Corporation.
53 Pecora Committee, 9 June 1933, pp. 799–822.
54 A taste of this vitriol may be found in Jack Morgan’s letter to his son Junius
in October 1933 disparaging Pecora as a “dirty little wop.” Jack Morgan to
Junius S. Morgan, 9 October 1933, TML, MBEP, Box 23, Junius S. Morgan.
55 Lamont to Lord Reading, 5 June 1933, British Library, India Office
Records, Lord Reading papers, f. 118/45. The same letter was sent to Sybil
Colefax, 5 June 1933, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 87, Folder 21.
56 O.G. Villard, “Issues and Men: They Will Never Learn,” The Nation, vol.
137, no. 3557, 6 September 1933, p. 259.
57 Lamont to E.T. Sanders, 1 April 1933, BL, TWL, Series V, Box 211, Folder
25; Lamont to Leffingwell, 14 June 1933, BL, TWL, Series V, Box 212,
Folder 16.
58 Paul Y. Anderson, 10 June 1933 and 21 June 1933, The Nation, vol. 136,
no. 3546.
59 Jack Morgan to William A. Otis, 12 June 1934, TML, JPM, Box 55, Folder
O/3. Otis had sent copies of the cartoons to Jack Morgan who had already
seen them. Jack Morgan told Otis that the last one had appeared “four or five
months” earlier, suggesting that they were circulating in the wake of Pecora.
William Nulsen may have been the author.
60 “Why This Hurts,” New York Times, 27 May 1933. Lamont to Ochs, 27
May 1933, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 112, Folder 3; Chernow, The House of
Morgan, pp. 373–74.
Page 396
Page 396
61 Steel, Walter Lippmann and the American Century, pp. 289–90; Lippmann,
“The Morgan Inquiry,” New York Herald Tribune, 31 May 1933, p. 17;
Lamont’s letter to Leffingwell, 10 July 1933, TML, CP, Box 6, Folder Morgan
& Co. – Senate Stock Exchg. Hearings Misc. Notes, makes plain just how
upset he was at Lippmann.
62 Arthur Krock, “Democratic Senators Are Not Aggressive to Morgan,” New
York Times, 24 May 1933, p. 20. Krock was the Washington bureau chief of
the Times.
63 Raymond Moley, The First New Deal, New York: Harcourt, Brace &
World, 1966, p. 317.
64 Donald Ritchie, “The Legislative Impact of the Pecora Investigation,”
Capitol Studies, vol. 5, no. 2 (1977), p. 91.
65 Carosso, “The Morgan Houses,” pp. 18–19.
66 “The Dollar and the Conference,” Leffingwell to Partners, 29 June 1933,
YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 8, Folder 174.
67 Leffingwell to Lamont, 30 June 1933, BL, TWL, Series VIII, Box 246,
Folder 23.
68 Thomas S. Lamont to Thomas W. Lamont, 1 August 1933, BL, TWL,
Series VIII, Box 246, Folder 23; Parker Gilbert to Dean Jay, 4 August 1933,
TML, MBEP, Box 16, Cables rec’d 1 June to 31 August 1933; J.P. Morgan &
Co. to Morgan & Cie., 13 September 1933, TML, MBEP, Box 16, Cables
received, 1 September to 29 November 1933.
69 Jack Morgan to Stanley Baldwin, 23 October 1933, TML, JPM, Box 25,
Stanley Baldwin; Lamont to Cochran, 25 October 1933, BL, TWL, Series II,
Box 87, Folder 16.
Page 397
Page 397
70 Lamont to Sybil Colefax, 26 December 1933, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 87,
Folder 21; Anderson to de Sanchez, 24 January 1934, TML, MBEP, Box 25,
Arthur M. Anderson; Lamont to Morgan & Cie, 31 January 1934, NDJ papers,
Knox College; Leffingwell to Dean Jay, 17 February 1934, YUL, RCL, Series
I, Box 4, Folder 83.
71 Glass to Leffingwell, 12 July 1933, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 3, Folder 67;
Leffingwell to Glass, 18 July 1933, UVA, Glass MS, Series I, Box 27,
Banking Correspondence Glass Steagall Act.
72 Leffingwell to Lamont, 2 January 1934, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4, Folder
96. The complete passage: “It is because it never does to underestimate
antagonistic forces that I suggest you reread Brandeis’s ‘Other People’s
Money,’ … I have no doubt – but no proof – that Brandeis and Frankfurter are
responsible for the clauses in the Glass Bill directed against private bankers,
as well as for the Securities Act. Though action on Brandeis’s views was
suspended by the war and the political reaction which followed the war, they
are clearly and effectively expressed in this legislation. I have little doubt that
he inspired it, or even drafted it. The Jews do not forget. They are relentless
… The reason why I make so much of this is that I think you underestimate
the forces we are antagonizing; and that not any inherent weakness in those
forces, but the war and the reaction which followed it held them in suspense.
Because I believe that we are confronted with the profound politico-economic
philosophy, matured in the wood for twenty years, of the finest brain and the
most powerful personality in the Democratic party, who happens to be a
Justice of the Supreme Court. I believe that we must give up our directorates,
particularly our banking directorates, to save our securities business. I believe
further that our securities business is a necessary feeder of our banking
business, and that without it the banking business would in time dry up. I shall
of course do my very best to present the arguments for the amendments that
Page 398
Page 398
are necessary, but I am afraid that we are beaten before we start unless we are
prepared to make a concession to Brandeis’s views.”
73 See Fraser, Every Man a Speculator, p. 469, for “rancid musings.” Fraser
had drawn on Geisst’s Wall Street, p. 431 as his source. Geisst in turn had
adopted his rendition of Leffingwell’s comments from Chernow, The House of
Morgan, p. 379. Unfortunately, Chernow did not include the sentences after
the words “Justice of the Supreme Court” reproduced in Note 72.
Consequently, neither Chernow nor Fraser nor Geisst understood what
Leffingwell was driving at. Perhaps because of this, Fraser indulged in an ill-
founded bromide against Leffingwell, portraying his remarks as the
expression of a threatened, dispossessed WASP who was anti–New Deal and
anti-Roosevelt despite being a “family friend.” Leffingwell was anti-Semitic –
on that point Fraser is correct – but he was not a Roosevelt family friend, he
remained a consistent supporter of the New Deal through the 1930s, and he
defended Roosevelt within and without the firm.
74 Leffingwell to Roosevelt, 2 October 1933, FDR, PPF, 866, Leffingwell,
Russell C., Roosevelt to Leffingwell, 12 October 1933, FDR, PPF, 866,
Leffingwell, Russell C.; RCL to FDR, 12 October 1933, YUL, RCL, Series I,
Box 7, Folder 146; Roosevelt to Leffingwell, 15 December 1933, FDR, PPF,
866, Leffingwell, Russell C.
75 Schlesinger, The Coming of the New Deal, pp. 247–48; Leuchtenberg,
Franklin D. Roosevelt and the New Deal, pp. 79–80; Harold LeClair, ed., The
Secret Diary of Harold Ickes, New York: Simon & Schuster, 1953–54, vol. 1,
pp. 108–09, 17 October 1933.
76 Leffingwell to Roosevelt, 4 January 1934, 8 January 1934, 8 February
1934, YUL, RCL, I, Box 7, Folder 146; the correspondence is also in FDR,
PPF, 866, Leffingwell, Russell C.; the phrase is Schlesinger’s, The Coming of
the New Deal, p. 478.
Page 399
Page 399
77 Total outstanding Federal direct loans rose from $3.324 billion in 1932 to
$4.303 billion in 1933, before jumping to $7.815 billion in 1934. These
figures include RFC lending which constituted the bulk of loans but
incorporate all Federal agency lending. Historical Statistics of the United
States from Colonial Times to 1957, table X 389, p. 663.
78 The memorandum was dated 26 December 1933 and may be found in the 4
January 1934 missive to the president referenced in Note 76.
79 Leffingwell to Roosevelt, 8 February 1934, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 7,
Folder 146.
80 Leffingwell to Roosevelt, 20 February 1934, 3 March 1934, YUL, RCL,
Series I, Box 7, Folder 146; Leffingwell to Roosevelt, 15 May 1934, YUL,
RCL, Series I, Box 7, Folder 146.
81 “World Economists Weigh New Deal; Mills Leads Foes,” New York Times,
22 March 1934, p. 1. Leffingwell’s remarks, in his paper, “The Gold Problem
and Currency Revaluation” are reproduced on p. 16 of the Times from the
event on 21 March.
82 Chernow, The House of Morgan, p. 379, suggests that J.P. Morgan & Co.
was part of a “zealous lobbying effort.” The most thorough study, Michael
Parrish, Securities Regulation and the New Deal, New Haven, CT: Yale
University Press, 1970, makes no such claim in his chapter, pp. 108–44.
Parrish notes the deep involvement of Richard Whitney, but the sole reference
to Morgan engagement is a 1940 letter retelling a story that Richard Whitney
claimed the Jews were out to get Morgan. See Parrish, Securities Regulation
and the New Deal, p. 130n25. William Lasser’s account, Benjamin V. Cohen:
Architect of the New Deal, New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2002, is
notable for its lack of reference to involvement by J.P. Morgan & Co. partners.
Page 400
Page 400
83 Lamont to Whitney, 10 February 1934, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 137,
Folder 12; TWL to William North Duane, 20 April 1934, BL, TWL, Series II,
Box 92, Folder 11.
84 Leffingwell to Walcott, 26 May 1934, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 104, Folder
13; Associated Press, “No Big Shakeups Now Anticipated in Wall Street,”
Christian Science Monitor, 25 May 1934, p. 10; Associated Press, “Morgan &
Co. Plan to be Commercial, Not Security Bank,” New York Times, 1 June
1934, p. 1.
85 Anderson to Cochran, 21 May 1934, TML, MBEP, Box 25, Arthur M.
Anderson.
86 Lamont, The Ambassador, p. 366.
87 “The Words are American,” American Bankers Association Journal, vol.
26, no. 1 (1933); Mark Sullivan, “Appraisal of the Revolution,” American
Bankers Association Journal, vol. 26, no. 1 (1933).
88 George E. Anderson, “National Credit Control,” American Bankers
Association Journal, vol. 26, no. 10 (1934), p. 11.
89 Leffingwell to Parker Gilbert and Thomas S. Lamont, 8 June 1936, YUL,
RCL, Series I, Box 3, Folder 63.
90 “Denies War on New Deal,” New York Times, 16 September 1934, p. 30;
“Six Recovery Issues Raised by Business,” New York Times, 25 September
1934, p. 10.
91 Norman Davis to Roosevelt, 10 October 1934, FDRPL, FDR papers, PSF,
Box 141, enclosing Lamont’s memorandum of 1 October 1934. It is likely that
the dinners took place on 16 September and 28 September 1934. Schlesinger,
The Coming of the New Deal, pp. 497–98.
Page 401
Page 401
92 Leffingwell to Roosevelt, 13 October 1934, Roosevelt to Leffingwell, 23
October 1934, Leffingwell to Roosevelt, 30 October 1934, YUL, RCL, Series
I, Box 7, Folder 146; FDRPL, PPF, Box 866, Roosevelt to Frankfurter, 2
November 1934.
93 Schlesinger, The Coming of the New Deal, pp. 499–503; “The Condition of
Business,” American Banking Association Journal, vol. 27, no. 5 (1934).
94 Leffingwell to Lamont, 25 July 1934, YUL, RCL, Series 1, Box 4, Folder
96.
95 Frederick Osborn, CUL, COHC, 1967 interview, p. 29.
96 Vernon Munroe to Lamont, 24 October 1934, Lamont to Filene, 19
November 1934, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 93, Folder 21.
97 See Appendix 2 for details.
98 Earl Latham, The Politics of Railroad Coordination 1933–1936,
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1959, p. 8; “Missouri-Pacific Put
in Bankruptcy,” The New York Times, 1 April 1933, p. 23.
99 See Latham’s concluding remarks, where defence of Eastman rests in part
on the intractability of the railroad problem. Latham, The Politics of Railroad
Coordination, pp. 267–77.
100 Jack Morgan to Woodin, 21 March 1933, TML, JPM, Box 25, William H.
Woodin; Parker Gilbert to Dean Jay, 4 August 1933, TML, MBEP, Box 16,
Cables rec’d, 1 June to 31 August 1933.
101 Lamont to Vincent Astor, 6 February 1934, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 107,
Folder 28. The corrective appeared on 17 February 1934. Frederick Lewis
Page 402
Page 402
Allen to Hildegard Allen, 10 June 1935, LC, FLA papers, Box 2,
correspondence 1935.
102 Lamont, 1 June 1934, “J.P. Morgan & Co. and Their Relations to the
Public,” BL, TWL, Series V, Box 214, Folder 13. Years later Lamont was still
defending the Van Sweringens to outsiders, as in a letter to William Allen
White, 11 March 1939, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 137, Folder 5 in rebuttal of
comments that White had made in his biography of Coolidge.
103 Beard’s comments are reported in “Asks Wide Inquiry in Rail Financing,”
New York Times, 21 March 1935, p. 37.
104 C.C. Colt, “Rail Probe Aims at Several Roads in Reorganization,” Wall
Street Journal, 6 July 1935, p. 1.
105 “Bankers Hold Key in Missouri Pacific,” New York Times, 4 August 1935,
F 3; “Vast Rail Empire Re-Won at Auction by Van Sweringens,” New York
Times, 1 October 1935, p 1.
106 Appendix II, J.P. Morgan & Co. Condensed Financial Statement.
107 “The Case for the Banks,” Barron’s, 21 October 1935, p. 12; “Morgan &
Co. Holdings of U.S. Governments Up $122,000,000,” Wall Street Journal, 4
January 1936, p. 1. There were extenuating circumstances, namely the Italian
invasion of Ethiopia and the subsequent flight of European capital seeking
safe haven in the United States, where the Morgan name remained a beacon of
stability.
108 The phrase “A Strike of Capital” was the title of an article by Raymond
Swing for The Nation where Swing made the connection between capital
shortage and fascism. Raymond Swing, Good Evening: A Professional
Memoir, New York: Harcourt, Brace & World, 1964, p. 173.
Page 403
Page 403
109 Appendix 2.
110 Lamont, The Ambassador, p. 373.
111 Lamont to Steele, 15 November 1934, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 131,
Folder 21.
112 A capsule biography of Eccles may be found at Federal Reserve History:
www.federalreservehistory.org/people/marriner_s_eccles. Eccles wrote an
autobiography, Marriner S. Eccles, Beckoning Frontiers, New York: Knopf,
1951; the older biography by Sydney Hyman, Marriner S. Eccles, Palo Alto,
CA: Stanford University Press, 1976, has now been supplanted for the New
Deal years by Mark Wayne Nelson, Jumping the Abyss: Marriner S. Eccles
and the New Deal, 1933–1940. Salt Lake City: University of Utah Press,
2017.
113 Nelson, Jumping the Abyss, pp. 178–79.
114 Irving S. Michelman, “A Banker in the New Deal: James P. Warburg,”
reprinted in Melvyn Dubofsky and Stephen Burwood, eds., The American
Economy during the Great Depression, New York: Garland, 1990, pp.
181–205.
115 “The Week in Finance,” New York Herald Tribune, 25 February 1935, p.
23; Ronnie J. Phillips, “The Chicago Plan and New Deal Banking Reform,”
Working Paper No. 76, Levy Institute, June 1992, pp. 25–40,
www.levyinstitute.org/pubs/wp/76.pdf.
116 Warburg to Carter Glass, 8 April 1935, UVA, Glass MS, Series I, Box 35,
Banking Act of 1935 Carter Glass and James P. Warburg; “Politics Out,”
American Banking Association Journal, vol. 27, no. 11 (1935).
Page 404
Page 404
117 Jack Morgan to Rodd, 3 July 1935, TML, CP, Box 31, Morgan & Co. –
Foreign Loans and Financing.
118 Sassoon G. Ward, “Giannini Fights Morgan,” The Nation, vol. 140, no.
3651, 26 June 1935, p. 737.
119 Harold M. Fleming, “The Week in Wall Street,” Christian Science
Monitor, 15 July 1935, p. 9; Fleming, “Underwriting of New Securities by
Commercial Banks Defended,” Christian Science Monitor, 31 July 1935, p.
11.
120 Editorial, Banking (the renamed American Banking Association Journal),
vol. 28, no. 3 (1935), p. 37.
121 Schlesinger, The Politics of Upheaval, pp. 300–1. Whether Eccles
appreciated that his reformed Federal Reserve system would be subject to
Treasury authority is another matter. Meltzer, A History of the Federal
Reserve, p. 415.
122 Junius Morgan to Jack Morgan, 24 August 1935, TML, MBEP, Box 23,
File 6.
123 Jack Morgan to Montagu Norman, 8 September 1935, BE, G1/143.
124 Morgan Grenfell, 16 June 1934, TML, MBEP, Box 22/403 C/2. Capital
was £5,000,000 of which £1.7 million was paid up; on Morgan & Cie.,
Lamont to Cochran, 15 August 1934, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 87, Folder 16.
125 Anonymous, Undated, UVA, Glass MS, Series I, Box 37, 1935 Federal
Reserve Board Appointment Marriner S. Eccles as Governor.
126 Warren, Radio Priest, on Father Coughlin; T. Harry Williams, Huey Long,
New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1969 is still the standard; for an insightful
Page 405
Page 405
comparison, Alan Brinkley, Voices of Protest: Huey Long, Father Coughlin,
and the Great Depression, New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1982.
127 Brinkley, Voices of Protest, pp. 145–53.
128 “Priest Charges Morgan Seeks Roosevelt Ruin,” Washington Post, 28
November 1933, p. 24; “Coughlin Assails Roosevelt Critics,” New York
Times, 4 December 1933, p. 8; “Coughlin hits Gold as Oppressing Men,” New
York Times, 11 December 1933, p. 2.
129 Lamont to Whitney, 28 December 1933, Lamont to Leffingwell, 15
January 1935, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 89, Folder 16; “Text of Father
Coughlin’s Address Attacking Plutocracy and the Bonus Veto,” New York
Times, 23 May 1935, p. 18.
130 Rev. John Clover Monsma to Lamont, 15 December 1934, Lamont to
Thomas S. Lamont, 17 December 1934, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 89, Folder
16; Leffingwell to Lamont, 6 October 1934, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4,
folder 96.
131 Huey Pierce Long, My First Days in the White House, Harrisburg, PA: The
Telegraph Press, 1935. Reprint: New York: Da Capo Press, 1972, pp. 67–115.
132 Delbert Clark, “Roosevelt Recharts His Course,” New York Times, 30 June
1935.
133 Mark H. Leff, The Limits of Symbolic Reform: The New Deal and
Taxation, 1933–1939, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1984.
134 Annual Message to Congress, 3 January 1936, The American Presidency
Project, www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/annual-message-congress-2.
Page 406
Page 406
135 Kennedy, Freedom from Fear, p. 278; Leuchtenburg, Franklin D.
Roosevelt and the New Deal, pp. 183–84.
136 The American Presidency Project,
www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/acceptance-speech-for-the-
renomination-for-the-presidency-philadelphia-pa.
137 Leffingwell to Lamont, 6 October 1934, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4,
Folder 96.
138 The Unofficial Observer, The New Dealers, p. 389.
139 Leffingwell to Lippmann, 7 March 1935, Lippmann to Leffingwell, 17
March 1935, YUL, Lippmann MS, Series III, Box 84, Folder 1314.
140 Jack Morgan to F.W. Muth, 2 April 1935, TML, JPM, Box 108, Folder
382. Almost certainly Jack Morgan did not write this letter on his own. It was
likely a product of various partners.
141 Jack Morgan to Mrs. William Cooper, 9 June 1936, TML, JPM, Box 112,
Folder 455/6.
142 Childs, “They Hate Roosevelt.”
143 Lamont, A Life in Letters, pp. 139–40, claimed that Thomas Lamont
shared his wife Florence’s views. The latter would “assemble a group of
friends to join her at the Trans Lux theatre to boo the President on screen.”
144 George Sokolsky, “Fascists Seen Gaining Ground in American Politics,”
Washington Post, 24 December 1933, R2.
145 Jules Archer, The Plot to Seize the White House, New York: Hawthorne
Books, 1973; Sally Denton, The Plots Against the President: FDR, A Nation
Page 407
Page 407
in Crisis, and the Rise of the American Right, New York: Bloomsbury Press,
2012, pp. 186–97.
146 Diggins, Mussolini and Fascism. On the related theme of those who
admired the Third Reich, Bradley W. Hart, Hitler’s American Friends, New
York: St. Martin’s Press, 2018.
147 Harbaugh, Lawyer’s Lawyer, p. 346.
148 “New Deal Foes Help Sentinels, Inquiry Is Told,” Washington Post, 18
April 1936, p. 5.
149 On Morgan contributions to Republican causes, New York Times, 11
September 1936, p. 10; 24 October 1936, p. 9; 2 December 1936, p. 10; as
well as Jack Morgan to J.P. Morgan & Co., 1 October 1936, TML, JPM, Box
39, Cables (Personal) Sent 24 September 1935 to 30 December 1937, in which
he remarked “H.P. Davison knows all I have done … Remember, I gave no
more than $5,000. to any one person.” Leffingwell to Lamont, 27 August
1936, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4, Folder 96 for Morgan unhappiness with
Landon.
150 Elliott V. Bell, “Roosevelt and Business: The Wide Rift,” New York Times,
16 August 1936, SM 5.
151 Leffingwell to Roosevelt, 1 September 1936, FDRPL, FDR, PPF, 866.
152 Leffingwell to Lamont, 27 August 1936, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4,
Folder 96.
153 Lamont, Junius Morgan, Whitney to Jack Morgan, Jack Morgan to
Lamont, Junius Morgan, Whitney, 5 November 1936, TML, MBEP, Box 24,
File 7.
Page 408
Page 408
7
J.P. Morgan & Co. and the Foreign
Policy of the New Deal
Germany, Italy, Japan, and the Nye Committee, 1933–1937
◈
The revisionist challenge of the 1930s arose in Tokyo, Berlin, and Rome. From
1931, Japan’s course raised alarm; from 1933, Hitler embodied German
dissatisfaction; from 1935, Italy made explicit its expansionism. Depression
fuelled the challengers to the status quo, whose desire to create a new
international order in their favour exacerbated the crisis of capitalism.1
Confronted with the disintegration of the postwar order, one influential account
of Roosevelt’s foreign policy has depicted a president torn between the
competing calls of internationalism and nationalism as domestic considerations
pressed. Gradually, internationalism gave way – “Farewell to Internationalism”
led to the “Internationalist as Isolationist” between 1935 and 1938.2 If historians
might disagree with this schema, few would contest the proposition that
American foreign policy was secondary to restoring the health of the American
polity during Roosevelt’s first term.3 While this was so, Roosevelt understood
the interplay between the New Deal and the world. Roosevelt’s oft-cited January
1936 message to Congress remarked, “Were I today to deliver an Inaugural
Page 409
Page 409
Address to the people of the United States, I could not limit my comments on
world affairs to one paragraph. With much regret, I should be compelled to
devote the greater part to world affairs.” We should recall this rueful musing, as
Kiran Patel has reminded us, when considering the New Deal’s opening stanza.4
Depression at home devoured, but it did not consume utterly American relations
with the world.
A broader question remains central: How do we explain the varying
responses to the aggression of the revisionist states in London, Paris, and
Washington? Understanding the Morgan response to developments sheds light
on an answer in the United States. After all, as one journalist wrote late in July
1937, “The Morgan firm probably is better informed on national and
international developments than any other concern in the country.”5 As
revisionism gained strength, its traction alarmed the Morgan partners.
Internationalist by conviction and heritage, J.P. Morgan & Co. had been
standard-bearers for a reconstructed capitalism through the 1920s and had tried
to shore up its rickety edifice from 1929 to 1932. Mutatis mutandis, the partners
clung to the hope that the lineaments of the postwar peace would survive, an
aspiration shared by many. Yet previous eminence haunted. If the Morgan houses
in London and Paris bound the Corner to Britain and France and the courses
those states pursued, J.P. Morgan & Co. was associated with Berlin, Rome, and
Tokyo. The new Nazi regime halted payments on the Dawes and Young Plan
loans in pursuit of Hitler’s diktat of untrammelled rearmament. Worse was the
reality that J.P. Morgan & Co. was the American banker for Japan and Italy.
From Manchuria in 1931 to the Italian invasion of Ethiopia in 1935 and the
outbreak of the Sino-Japanese War in the summer of 1937, J.P. Morgan & Co.
shied away from criticizing Tokyo and Rome. The Corner’s stance was neither
admirable nor bold and its reticence was due to more than the discretionary
Page 410
Page 410
culture of the private merchant banker. Misapprehension was at work. The
Morgan partners, like many in the “low, dishonest decade,” failed to discern
how intense the cravings of Nazi radicalism were, while understating changed
Italian and Japanese behaviour. Despite their experience, information, and
knowledge, the Morgan partners misperceived the threat. They were not alone in
making this error, but the Morgan inability to see supports interpretations that
have stressed the difficulty of discerning through the fog intent in Berlin, Rome,
and Tokyo. Roosevelt did little better. Certainly, the more bellicose German,
Italian, and Japanese foreign policy became, the more J.P. Morgan & Co.
mimicked the president’s calibrated responses.
Common – if uncoordinated – cause between the bank and the White House
was promoted by the spectre of another war. Inchoate as the 1930s began, but
taking shape as the decade waned, sustenance for the growth of this alignment
was drawn not only from the appetites of the revisionist states but also from the
past. The high-profile Special Committee on Investigation of the Munitions
Industry hearings, better known as the Nye Committee, explored the relationship
between American munitions makers and American entry into World War I. It
expanded its remit to explore whether bankers and financiers played a part in
orchestrating American belligerency, leading to testimony by the Morgan
partners in 1936. The Roosevelt administration resisted the Nye Committee’s
efforts to dragoon material on Morgan wartime dealings with London and Paris,
fearful of the consequences for American foreign relations. As the American
debate on neutrality heated, the events of 1917 and the Morgan role therein
soaked public consciousness. It was a small step from belief in Morgan
maleficence in 1917 to certainty that J.P. Morgan & Co. sought to entangle the
United States anew in European conflict.
Page 411
Page 411
The effect of these considerations –imagined, exaggerated, real – was dual:
first, they kept the Morgan name in the limelight. Morgan influence on New
Deal foreign policy was limited, but perception suggested otherwise, prompting
minds wooed by the “voices of protest” to ponder whether Morgan was un-
American. The second development followed naturally. The Morgan partners
sought surety in unsure times by hewing closely to the line advanced by the
president, irrespective of the chasm between Roosevelt and them on the New
Deal at home. This was demonstrated in October 1937 when Roosevelt delivered
his “quarantine speech” in Chicago, warning his fellow Americans that an
“epidemic of world lawlessness” was spreading, as evinced in the rearmament
programs of aggressor states. Insistently the president told his listeners of his
“determination to pursue a policy of peace.” Seventeen days later, also speaking
in Chicago, Lamont declaimed that “nobody wants war.” Like Roosevelt,
Lamont
bemoaned
armament
expenditures
while
decrying
“intense
nationalism.” The two speeches were cut from the same cloth.6 Years later,
Roosevelt would acknowledge Morgan faithfulness, describing Lamont to Vice-
President Henry Wallace: “On all these foreign things he is, and always has
been, one hundred per cent loyal.”7 The foundation of that encomium was laid
between 1933 and 1937.
*****
Adolf Hitler’s appointment as chancellor at the end of January 1933 prompted an
immediate shift in German economic priorities. Days after entering office, he
told assembled generals that he intended to expand and re-equip the armed
forces with the aim of “the conquest of new living space in the East and its
ruthless Germanization … only through political power and struggle can the
present economic circumstances be changed.”8 Political opposition had to be
overcome before this was realizable. The unsatisfactory Reichstag election result
Page 412
Page 412
early in March that left the Nazi Party short of a majority was corrected by the
passage of the Enabling Act later the same month, giving Hitler the means,
subject to the aged President Paul von Hindenburg’s consent, to rule without
parliamentary interference. With this weapon in hand, the Nazis moved
expeditiously. From the summer of 1933 Germany was a one-party state. With
internal voices silenced, rearmament could proceed. Obstacles remained. The
German economy was dependent on imports. Lacking foreign currency, Schacht
scrambled to economize in light of the additional burden imposed by Hitlerian
demands that the rearmament push not be sacrificed on the altar of domestic
consumption. It was never a question of butter and guns; for Hitler, there was
only guns and guns. Adam Tooze has demonstrated just how serious the ensuing
economic-political crisis was in 1933–34 for the new regime, emphasizing that
clearing away the difficulties facing the economy occasioned by Hitler’s
insistence on full-throttle rearmament was Schacht’s task.9
Hitlerian ambitions had ramifications for J.P. Morgan & Co. One means
Schacht settled on to meet Hitler’s demands was squeezing the payments owed
abroad on the Dawes and Young Plan loans. The two loans had not been affected
by the Standstill agreements of August 1931 as their privileged status was
enshrined by treaty. Brüning’s government and its successors accepted that
service on the two loans must continue. For his part, Schacht had never
considered the Young loan legitimate. Prodded by Hitler, he moved steadily
toward seeing the Dawes loan as illegitimate as well.10 J.P. Morgan & Co. was
not the specific target – Schacht was interested in reducing and, if possible,
ending German payments on all loans. This approach, pursued with conviction
and guile, exploited the divisions among bondholders as the possibility of default
unsettled investors. Early efforts by Schacht in May and June 1933 to bludgeon
American compliance into reducing or cancelling German obligations had drawn
Page 413
Page 413
the attention of Hull and Roosevelt. The president instructed his new ambassador
at Berlin, William E. Dodd, to thwart moves toward a moratorium.11 Schacht,
however, was not deterred. He returned to the idea, moving ahead with
blandishments and threats.
As negotiations intensified in 1934 the Morgan posture was driven by two
considerations. Fear that repudiation would damage Morgan prestige animated
the Corner. During the Pecora hearings the Morgan defence had in part been
predicated on the excellence of their record in bonds, especially those floated for
foreign governments. Bonds placed by J.P. Morgan & Co. did not default. The
Dawes and Young loans, identified so intimately with the firm, were trophy
loans. Any caesura in their servicing would exact a reputational toll. To the
partners, this mattered greatly. Prestige and reputation were important, but so too
was the abiding Morgan conviction that maintaining the Dawes and Young loans
was an indispensable precondition for international harmony. Lamont told
Schacht in April 1934 that his plans would dash “all efforts for future economic
cooperation on an international basis … for a generation to come.”12
Alone J.P. Morgan & Co. could not expect to make headway. Fortunately,
Young, Harrison, and Fraser were allies. Young reminded Schacht of the damage
that his course would do to international economic cooperation, reinforced by
Harrison, while Fraser, as president of the BIS, met Schacht frequently to discuss
central banking matters.13 Information about these encounters was relayed
faithfully to the Morgan partners, either directly or through the intermediary of
Dean Jay. Jay was a trustee of the Dawes loan and enjoyed good contacts with
the BIS. Amid the “reams of cables,” the Morgan partners stressed the
“necessity of solidarity” among Paris, London, and Washington.14 What ensued
was a demonstration of the difficulty of maintaining a united front. Schacht was
aided by the campaign that the Nazi regime had embarked on vis-à-vis non-
protected loans (all loans other than Dawes and Young) extended to Germany.
Page 414
Page 414
The Dutch and the Swiss, worried that their credits were in jeopardy, had agreed
to clearing arrangements late in 1933. As for Britain and the United States, their
trade balances with Germany were a factor – with Britain the Germans ran a
trade surplus, whereas with the United States the German trade account was in
deficit. Trade afforded Schacht opportunity. He claimed that restrictions on
German exports imperilled the ability of the Reich to earn the foreign exchange
necessary to meet the payments on outstanding loans abroad, thus connecting
loan servicing with trade issues. Hull’s desire to support American creditors
against Schacht was complicated by discord in Washington. Roosevelt’s
willingness to explore the possibilities of expanding American trade with
Germany, through offhand conversations with the German ambassador, Hans
Luther, were seized on with alacrity by the ambitious George Peek, whose tenure
as head of the Agricultural Adjustment Act had petered out ingloriously in
December 1933. Peek soon rebounded, becoming the first president of the
Export-Import Bank in February 1934, from which office he pursued schemes to
exchange American cotton for German wine in the face of fierce opposition from
Hull.15 Internecine squabbling was harmful but the deeper problem was that any
threat to retaliate against Germany would mean injuring American exporters,
who might not be paid for their goods, leaving the American bargaining position
weak in contradistinction to Britain who had at their disposal the weapon of
seizing German balances in London built up by the German trade surplus.16
The frailty of “solidarity” was soon apparent. Norman signalled a
willingness to broach a clearing arrangement with Germany, thus casting into
doubt the inviolability of the Dawes and Young Plan loans. When Norman
justified his action on the grounds that countries that were running a trade deficit
with Germany might institute clearing arrangements to safeguard the integrity of
their non-protected loans, the Morgan partners bridled, observing that clearing
arrangements were not incompatible with continuance of payments on the two
Page 415
Page 415
loans and reminding Norman sharply that if he was forceful enough servicing of
the Dawes and Young Plans loans would continue. Whigham, rushing to pour oil
on troubled waters, drew attention to the “volume” of middle- and long-term
loans creditors had made to Germany. He told the Morgan partners in New York
that these lenders did not agree that the Dawes and Young Plan loans should be
in a privileged category. Writing to Dean Jay, Whigham stressed the “extremely
complicated and delicate nature of the situation.” Schacht, Whigham thought,
was genuine in his insistence that he lacked foreign exchange and that countries
that had a favourable balance of trade with Germany would seek to deploy this
leverage.17 Such reassurances did not mollify. Lamont wrote Schacht early in
April 1934 to press the Morgan case for continued service. Reviewing it, the
Bank of England opined, “Good letter but useless.”18 And so it proved, for
Schacht’s rejoinder insisted that Germany had no means to make payments. Jack
Morgan, whose standing with Norman was high, cabled Grenfell with a personal
message for the governor urging Norman to remain committed to the “fight”
because he was the only individual with influence over Schacht. Grenfell
declined to present the cable, informing Jack Morgan that Norman might be
“affronted” by it. Grenfell stressed that Norman was alive to the “sanctity” of
the Dawes and Young loans. In his reply Grenfell warned that Schacht might
implement a moratorium on all transfers after 1 July, driven by “real difficulties
of transfer” and possibly “political pressure.”19
Formal announcement in June 1934 that Germany was ceasing payment on
the Dawes and Young loans was thus not a surprise to the Corner, even if
Lamont had hoped that the Dawes payment might be preserved. Dean Jay was
better apprised. Drawing on a cable from Fraser, Jay told J.P. Morgan & Co. in
late April that Schacht would cease meeting German obligations on all
outstanding loans.20 Once public, there was little recourse for the Morgan
Page 416
Page 416
partners. Ramsay MacDonald was pressed to intercede, but the limits of this
approach were demonstrated when on 4 July Britain reached a separate
arrangement with Germany that sheltered British creditors from the effects of the
German declaration.21 A front-page article in the New York Times two weeks
later drew the lesson “that the pledge of a foreign government’s revenues for
loans can carry no real guarantee if there is no way to collect from governments
unable or unwilling to pay – except by force.”22 The weakness of the Morgan
position was illustrated in their response to an offer made by Schacht in October
1935 to purchase Dawes and Young Plan bonds at a discounted price. While J.P.
Morgan & Co. did not recommend publicly the deal, privately they deemed it to
be the best that investors would receive. Schacht repeated the offer in 1936 and
1937.23
The quarrel over the Dawes and Young Plan loans was overlaid with
worries about American bankers sustaining the nascent Nazi regime. Acting on
material furnished by George S. Messersmith, the American consul at Berlin
until May 1934, and subsequently Minister at Vienna from 1934 to 1938,
Hamilton Fish Armstrong, the moving spirit on the Council of Foreign Relations
and managing editor of its journal Foreign Affairs, wrote Hull that American
bankers were mulling fresh loans to Germany.24 Messersmith, in his reports to
Washington, had emphasized the breakneck pace of rearmament and the
seriousness of the political-economic crisis enveloping Germany. Armstrong,
drawing on Messersmith, believed that the Nazi regime was teetering.
Rumblings of new credits that would rescue Hitler’s government had surfaced in
the New York press. Frederick Birchall, in the New York Times, pointed to the
presence of James Perkins of National City Bank in Berlin, the supposed
willingness of Norman to consider credits, and Perkins’ subsequent meeting with
Lamont in Paris as grist for his story, “American Bankers Seek to Aid Reich:
Page 417
Page 417
Hope to Avert a Sudden Crash by Temporary Credits for Raw Materials.”25
Superficially plausible as a quid pro quo to prod Schacht to continue payments
on the Dawes and Young loans, Birchall’s report was inaccurate – the Morgan
partners had no intention of lending money to Germany. Nevertheless,
Armstrong, after reading Birchall’s story, phoned Leffingwell. As Leffingwell
informed Lamont, Armstrong “was concerned lest we were going to save the
Nazi regime with fresh credits. His information and hope was that they would
fall within a month unless credits were extended … I told him that there is
nothing in it so far as we were concerned.”26 Lamont reinforced Leffingwell’s
denial, but Armstrong’s doubts lingered, sustained by Messersmith.27 How far
these warnings were taken seriously in Washington is unclear. Herbert Feis, the
economic advisor to the State department, thought highly of Messersmith’s
analyses, while Hull later lauded him as “one of our ablest officials.”28 While
agreeing with the Messersmith thesis that Nazism was vulnerable and fresh
American capital would offer succour at an inopportune moment, Roosevelt was
not convinced that the Nazi regime teetered on the brink of economic collapse.29
The Night of the Long Knives (30 June to 2 July 1934), the murder of
critics within the Nazi Party and opponents outside it, jolted the Corner. The
Morgan partners thought events signalled Nazism’s vulnerability. Walter Layton
of The Economist and Robert Brand of Lazard Brothers speculated that the end
was near for Hitler at lunch with Lamont, leading Lamont to record in his diary,
“Is Hitler done for?”30 Internal crisis may have been staved off by violence
temporarily, but the Morgan partners believed that if the Third Reich was to
survive in the long term its hopes rested on a Hitler–Schacht axis. Norman, who
was visiting the United States, told Leffingwell that “Hitler and Schacht are the
bulwarks of civilization in Germany and the only friends we have. They are
fighting the war of our system of society against communism.”31 Though
Page 418
Page 418
Leffingwell doubted this diagnosis, his partners were more accepting. Parker
Gilbert wrote Fraser early in August 1934 in terms that portrayed Hitler and
Schacht as coevals, a supposition echoed by Lamont two weeks later when he
told Parker Gilbert that “Schacht-Hitler may execute a volte-face” on Nazism’s
more radical measures, before referring subsequently to “Hitler-Schacht” in the
same letter. Early in January 1935 Dean Jay passed on to Leffingwell Fraser’s
assessment that Schacht was “now the Economic Dictator of Germany” and
might even become vice-chancellor.32 Later that year, at a dinner hosted by
Armstrong for Heinrich Brüning, the ex-chancellor in exile, the attendees,
including Leffingwell, heard Brüning dilate that the economic situation in
Germany was “desperate” and that “Reichswehr /and allied conservative forces
are in real control,” leading Brüning to forecast that Hitler would only survive as
“a figure-head.”33 Fanciful as this was, it sated the Morgan predilection to view
Schacht as a key constituent in the conservative forces binding Hitler. When
Francis Rodd, a Morgan Grenfell partner, returned from a trip to Germany early
in 1936, his assessment was similar. Rodd’s analysis described Schacht and the
Army as the only calming elements inside a country where the economic
situation remained alarming.34 Until late 1937, when Leffingwell asked Lamont
whether he knew that “the skids are said to be under Dr. Schacht?,” J.P. Morgan
& Co. believed Schacht wielded disproportionate power within the regime.35
This misreading drew on the history of Morgan dealings with Germany,
wherein Schacht was the central figure. For the Morgan partners, Schacht had
long been the éminence grise of German finance. Given the shortage of
economic and financial experts within Nazi ranks, his reach appeared to be
lengthening, extending beyond finance into politics. What this inference lacked
was an appreciation of the internal dynamics of Nazism. The only J.P. Morgan &
Co. partner in the 1930s who had working experience in Germany was Parker
Page 419
Page 419
Gilbert. However, Parker Gilbert did not speak German and had cultivated few
German friends. After the advent of Hitler, Parker Gilbert’s informants in
Germany dwindled. For more reliable intelligence, the Morgan partners relied on
information collated by Dean Jay. Jay’s base in Paris afforded him access to
other well-informed bankers, such as Carel Eliza ter Meulen, the Dutch banker
who headed Hope & Co. in Amsterdam. Such men had ties in Germany, but
generally to well-established figures of the traditional conservative type, not the
radicals that thronged the corridors of Nazism in power. Consequently, while
Dean Jay was closer to developments than the Morgan partners in New York, he
was nevertheless remote from Berlin. Nor did it help that the Morgan partners
considered the American ambassador, Dodd, a naïve academic out of his depth.
Writing Grenfell in 1935, Lamont derided Dodd as someone who “thinks that all
the foreign loans ever made to Germany, including the Dawes and Young, were
probably foisted on wronged and innocent people by greedy British and
American bankers, and he has little sympathy with the attempt to get poor
Germany to fulfill her obligations.”36 Dodd was ill-suited for the embassy, but
this did not mean that all he learned was worthless. Messersmith’s reports, which
offered a more bracing assessment of Schacht, were not disseminated to J.P.
Morgan & Co. Messersmith considered Schacht a paper tiger. He told William
Phillips, the under-secretary of state, that “[o]ur own bankers … place much
more confidence in the man and his power than he deserves.” Schacht,
Messersmith went on, was mendacious, undependable, au fond a “servile
instrument” of Hitler.37 If the Morgan partners concurred that Schacht was
duplicitous, understanding that he served at Hitler’s beck and call eluded them.
*****
While the Morgan partners misconstrued German developments, Italy and
Mussolini’s dictatorship, long familiar to the Corner, should have been more
Page 420
Page 420
accurately appraised. Since the 1920s J.P. Morgan & Co. had been the foreign
banker to Italy. The Corner orchestrated three Italian loans in the 1920s after
Mussolini consolidated his authority following the kidnapping and murder of
Giacomo Matteotti in 1924: a $100 million 7 per cent bond issue in November
1925 to the Italian government, a $12 million bond placed in March 1927
bearing interest of 7 per cent again for the Italian government, and a week later a
$30 million bond floated at the rate of 6.5 per cent for the municipality of Rome.
Lamont was the principal Morgan interlocutor with Il Duce, aided by Fummi.38
The latter’s presence in Rome as the Morgan representative stamped Morgan
knowledge of Fascism as qualitatively superior to their understanding of the new
Nazi regime in Berlin. The Morgan relationship with Fascist Italy was
strengthened by the 1929 Concordat between the Vatican and Mussolini’s
regime. Bernardino Nogara, the banker appointed by Pope Pius XI in 1929 to
head the Amministrazione Speciale della Santa Sede that oversaw the Vatican’s
investment funds arising from the Concordat, enjoyed close ties with the House
of Morgan. Nogara spoke “excellent” English. He had been a member of the
Italian delegation to the Paris Peace talks, was one of the Italian representatives
on the reparation committee thereafter, and from 1924 to 1929 headed the
industry section of the Inter-Allied Commission overseeing the Dawes Plan in
Berlin. He had, in these capacities, interacted with Lamont. Nogara had close
relationships with the men who mattered in Italian financial circles, such as
Bonaldo Stringher, the dominant figure in the Bank of Italy until his death in
1930, and Alberto Pirelli of the eponymous Pirelli family, well known to the
Morgan partners for his role as one of the Italian negotiators on both the Dawes
and Young committees.39
Through Fummi, an account with Morgan Grenfell was opened on behalf of
the Vatican in the summer of 1931. Vatican business with Morgan Grenfell took
various forms. As Michael Herbert wrote Dean Jay in January 1932, the Vatican
Page 421
Page 421
has “a substantial cash account with us in addition to which they have a big
holding of British securities.” Later that year, visiting London, Nogara met with
Whigham for the express purpose of setting up a real-estate investment company
in Britain, modelled on the example of existing Vatican vehicles on the
continent. At that time – November 1932 – the Vatican had £328,000 on deposit
with Morgan Grenfell along with a dollar deposit of $300,000. The following
year, acting via Morgan Grenfell and J.P. Morgan & Co., Nogara applied to
purchase $250,000 of US government securities, paying 4 per cent, while in the
fall of 1934, deploying money received from Hope & Co. of Amsterdam,
Morgan Grenfell purchased gold bars for Nogara.40 These two transactions,
conservative in character, were unsurprising given the Depression. The papacy’s
finances suffered in the Crash, with the collapse of Krueger & Toll exacting a
hefty tithe. For this reason, Nogara displayed an aversion to buying US railroad
securities.41
While the Vatican sought stability for its external investments and hoped to
find it in the refuge of the United States, Mussolini’s ambitions were more
expansive. Il Duce fretted, perceiving in Britain and France powers that checked
his desire to establish Italian control over the Mediterranean. He wanted to
“break the bars of the prison,” to assail his British and French gaolers.42 In the
1920s these dreams were not aired. Mussolini posed as a supporter of a newly
stabilized European order. The symbol of his peaceful intent was Italy’s
accession to the Locarno Pact of 1925. Until the mid-1930s Mussolini operated
in the shadows, for Italy was not strong enough to accomplish his desires. He
concealed his hankering to wage war against Yugoslavia and his desire to expand
the Italian imperium in Africa at the expense of Ethiopia. Sponsorship of
terrorist groups such as the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization
(IMRO), the Macedonian revolutionary organization dedicated to the overthrow
Page 422
Page 422
of Yugoslavia, which led to the assassination of the Yugoslav king Alexander I
(and accidentally the French foreign minister Louis Barthou) at Marseilles in
October 1934, had to suffice until Il Duce deemed the moment ripe for the
assault on Ethiopia.
The Morgan partners were oblivious to this aggressive, dark Mussolini,
despite warnings. Charles Rist, writing Leffingwell in February 1933 in a letter
that was circulated to all the New York partners, commented “[a]s to Mussolini,
I believe that he is at present sincerely pacifistic. In using the word ‘sincerely’ I
would say that the necessity for peace is so strong to Mussolini as to make it
impossible for him to get around it.”43 Rist’s cautionary words were, seemingly,
belied by events. Italian anxieties about Austrian independence, fears of German
economic encroachment in the Danube basin, coupled with Mussolini’s
jaundiced appraisal of the new German strongman, led Rome to chart a cautious
course in 1933 – Mussolini’s proposal for a Four Power Pact in March 1933
(Britain, France, Germany, Italy) aimed under the guise of a mutual pledge of
disarmament to restrain Germany. That summer, Dino Grandi, the Italian
ambassador at London, asked Lamont to relay to Roosevelt the message that
Mussolini, by restraining Germany from swallowing Austria, was doing more
for American benefit than any debt repayment scheme.44 A year later, the day
after the Austrian Chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss was assassinated during a Nazi-
inspired coup attempt in Austria, Lamont told Cochran that Barthou had made
clear how pleased Paris was with Mussolini’s vigorous response to this
provocation, moving troops to the Brenner Pass.45 Fortifying the impression that
Mussolini was committed to a reasonable course were assessments that the
Italian economy was struggling. Harrison, returned from his trip to Europe in the
summer of 1934, sketched matters bleakly: “I was much struck by his adverse
impression of conditions in Italy” Leffingwell remarked.46 Signs that the Italian
Page 423
Page 423
economy was encountering headwinds were apparent in the decision late in
December 1934 to impose foreign exchange controls, a signal that Rome was
seeking to husband its reserves. When the Italian Cabinet was reshuffled early in
1935, Fummi hastened to reassure that the changes would not produce any
alteration, remarking on Mussolini’s “extraordinary grasp” of financial policy.47
Through 1933 and 1934 the Roosevelt administration considered Mussolini
a “moderating influence” in Europe.48 If the clash between Italian and Ethiopian
forces at Wal Wal in December 1934 suggested otherwise, the Stresa Front talks
with Britain and France in April 1935 seemed proof of Mussolini’s peaceable
intent. The discussions, which promoted the notion of the three powers keeping a
watchful eye on Berlin, were interpreted as reassuring for European stability.
Unbeknownst to those outside Rome, Mussolini had months before ordered the
invasion of Ethiopia, confirming the decision at the end of 1934.49 His
discussions with Pierre Laval, the French foreign minister, early in January 1935
in Rome were motivated by a desire to probe the likely French response to
Italian action. Laval’s reassurance that Paris would acquiesce was neither novel
nor unexpected, given the French fixation with Germany, but gratified
Mussolini.50 Stresa was an effort by Rome to remind London and Paris of the
threat from Berlin. The British attitude was crucial given the stranglehold
occasioned by Italian dependence on imports for its energy needs. The Royal
Navy, with its bases at Gibraltar, Malta, and Alexandria, was well-positioned to
interdict Italian commerce should war erupt. Yet trepidation in London at the
possibility of an Italian war interacted with a desire to maintain the Stresa Front,
with the threat from Japan and Germany, and with doubts about the reliability of
the United States, discouraging Whitehall from confrontation.51
Ignorant of London’s strategic calculations, the Morgan partners could
nevertheless read the tea leaves. J.P. Morgan & Co. began withdrawing from
Page 424
Page 424
Italian commitments in June 1935 as Italian bellicosity waxed. Lamont cabled
Fummi on 6 June that the bank had opted to reduce its credits by 25 per cent,
limiting acceptances to a maximum of three months maturity, while exercising
the right to cancel any credits with ninety days’ notice. Lamont made plain
Morgan displeasure: “public opinion in this country regards the African
development with little sympathy.” A month later, Lamont, after consulting with
Whigham and Rodd, limited Morgan exposure further. The firm gave notice of
the ninety-day cancellation clause in its lines of credits to Italian banks, meaning
that, from 15 October, J.P. Morgan & Co. would be positioned to end its credits
entirely. Fummi protested, informing New York that he feared that such steps
would incite a negative reaction from Rome, suggesting a delay to 1 August on
the grounds that arbitration might yet succeed in resolving Italo-Ethiopian
differences, telling Lamont in confidence that a well-placed authority had
intimated such an outcome was likely.52 Ordinarily Lamont may have
succumbed to the temptation of having privileged information but in this
instance he was not seduced. While his partner Leffingwell remained impressed
by Mussolini, arguing that it was the latter’s skill that made possible the stability
of the lira in the face of buffeting headwinds occasioned by deflation, admiration
for Il Duce was distinct from willingness to continue doing business with Italy.53
Morgan coolness was dictated by various considerations.
American legislation was one. Two acts were pertinent, the Johnson Act of
April 1934 and the Neutrality Act of August 1935. The Johnson Act prohibited
loans to European states that were in default on their war debts to the United
States. Italy fell into this category. For J.P. Morgan & Co., the Johnson Act was
too broad-brush; Lamont wrote Johnson pointing out that the act’s provisions
made possible discrimination against private loans that were not in default and in
many instances had risen in price, an observation that was reiterated in separate
Page 425
Page 425
communications to Noyes and Lippmann.54 This protest had little effect but
attested to the Morgan bank’s sensitivity, which was demonstrated in July 1934
when the pleas of Morgan & Cie. that they might risk losing “our old European
clientele” if the firm did not subscribe to a new French government loan were
rejected by New York on the grounds that the Johnson Act forbade it.55 The
bracing effect of the Johnson Act was marked; fear of violating its stipulations
reinforced Morgan conservatism through the remainder of the 1930s whenever
European governments inquired about borrowing.
The Neutrality Act struck directly at American business links with Italy.
Pressure had been building within Congress for statutory action that would
address the complications that might arise from future conflicts. Belief that
American economic and financial assistance between 1914 and 1917 to the
Allies had tugged the United States into war underpinned this push. Roosevelt
had asked Nye’s committee investigating the munitions industry to explore
legislation in a White House meeting in March 1935, a suggestion that Nye and
his colleagues seized on with alacrity. From the outset it was apparent that Nye
envisaged J.P. Morgan & Co. as a target. As he remarked, “if Morgans and other
bankers must get into another war, let them do it by enlisting in the Foreign
Legion.”56 Driving draft legislation forward was an amalgam of bitterness
regarding World War I and growing European tensions. What ensued over the
spring and summer of 1935 was a demonstration of how tangled neutrality was
in American politics. Pittman’s Foreign Relations Committee, angered at the
intrusion of Nye on to their territory, sought to fend off the interloper, while
Roosevelt, fortified by Hull, his State department officials, and Norman Davis,
backtracked. The administration reverted to the traditional executive insistence
that its prerogatives over foreign affairs not be infringed.57 Once it became
apparent, following the collapse of tripartite talks among Britain, France, and
Page 426
Page 426
Italy on 19 August, that war was likely, under duress Roosevelt signed the
Neutrality Act at the end of August. The act, of six months’ duration, fashioned a
general embargo on the shipment of war material to belligerents.58 Its effect on
Morgan communications with Fummi and, through him, Mussolini’s regime was
immediate.
Cabling Fummi on 23 August, after noting their credit line arrangements
with Italian banks, specifically the Banco di Roma, the Banca Commerciale
Italiana, and Credito Italiano, J.P. Morgan & Co. remarked: “in view of
governmental attitude here as shown by recent resolution passed by the Senate
and now pending before the House of Representatives any utilization by them of
these lines might result in situations troublesome to them and of great
embarrassment to the whole situation.” Bluntly, New York told Fummi not to
ask for new credits.59 Making frankness simpler was the scale of Morgan
business with Italy. As of late August 1935, there was no open line of credit or
acceptances with the Banco di Roma, acceptances to the derisory amount of
$1503.00 were on the books with the Banca Commerciale d’Italia, and only the
Credito Italiano was drawing, with their line reaching $279,702.82 early in
September 1935.60 There was no reason for the Morgan partners to preserve a
pittance. Despite repeated messages from Fummi emphasizing the commitment
of the Italian people to Mussolini, to the Fascist regime, and to the Ethiopian
affair, far from Rome the Morgan evaluation was that Italian readiness for war
was questionable. Carter told his New York partners that, though Mussolini’s
regime had sequestered holdings of foreign securities in the amount of $120
million, he thought that this was a “surprisingly low figure” for a state girding
for war. Carter’s doubts extended to disparaging Fummi’s prediction that a
“strongly-armed” Italy might have to be rescued from its economic woes when a
general settlement of monetary and financial questions occurred. Carter
Page 427
Page 427
described such imaginings as “a pretty wobbly foundation on which to base a
country’s financial future.”61 The outrage expressed in the Morgan cable to
Fummi, composed days after the Italian campaign opened, in the wake of reports
in the American press of bombings of villages resulting in the killing and
maiming of women and children, was genuine, but it risked little because there
was little Morgan business with Fascism.62
Mussolini’s adventurism led to a re-evaluation of the Italian tie. The spike
in demand deposits that J.P. Morgan & Co. experienced in the last quarter of
1935, from $356.6 million on 1 October 1935 to $446.7 million on 31 December
1935, bore witness to money fleeing Europe after the outbreak of Italo-Ethiopian
hostilities.63 Amid a New Deal economy that was becalmed, while tensions
between Wall Street and the White House were mounting, capital flight was
unwelcome. Fummi’s role was under review in New York. Morgan Grenfell,
coping with lowered levels of profitability, was seeking economies. Fummi was
drawing a salary of $30,000 a year, supplemented by a special account of
$10,000 and an expense account of $10,000. These expenses were divided.
Morgan Grenfell covered 40–45 per cent, Morgan & Cie., 15–20 per cent, with
J.P. Morgan & Co. meeting the balance. Baulking at what they estimated was an
outlay of $20,000 a year for Fummi, Morgan Grenfell wanted a reduction.
Fummi, informed that a cut of $10,000 in his salary was contemplated, lobbied
for a smaller decrease of $5,000. Writing the Morgan Grenfell partner Vivian
Harris Smith in December 1936, Lamont mused:
So far as Italian business is concerned, we have … done little or nothing in
the last few years. We see little chance of doing any amount of such
business for a considerable time in the future, if at all. Therefore, are we
justified in continuing indefinitely what is a very considerable item of
Page 428
Page 428
expense for the maintenance of what is in effect an all-round Continental
ambassador?64
While Fummi’s presence in Rome perhaps encouraged Italy to service its
outstanding loans, Lamont was confident “that if he was hit by a bus, [the
government] would still service.”65 Lamont acknowledged there was little to
show from Fummi’s efforts. The decision was made to retain Fummi’s services
but at a less lavishly provisioned level, in the hope that his future efforts would
be more valuable to J.P. Morgan & Co.
Fummi had survived because of his perceived indispensability as an
interlocutor. Even as Lamont claimed that the combination of a general war
arising from Fascist aggression, compounded by the losses that J.P. Morgan &
Co. had sustained since the onset of the Depression, ruled out new Morgan
credits for Italy, he sought to soothe Fascist sensibilities.66 Fummi played a role,
telling all and sundry in Rome that Morgan faithfulness to Fascism was intact,
pointing to Morgan resistance to American legislative developments. Lamont,
his fondness for face-to-face diplomacy undimmed, had signalled his willingness
to travel to Italy early in 1936 despite the ongoing war. Discouraged by Fummi
on the grounds a trip might fuel speculation about Morgan loans to Rome, the
idea was revived in the spring of 1937 as new Italian feelers for credit were
extended. Credito Italiano inquired about obtaining a $250,000 line of credit
from J.P. Morgan & Co. in the spring of 1937 and were spurned, despite their
argument that both Chase National ($800,000) and National City ($500,000) had
extended credit.67 Perhaps to soften the blow, Lamont issued guidance to T.H.
Beck, the president of Crowell Publishing, in which Lamont had a substantial
personal interest. Crowell published Women’s Home Companion, The American
Magazine, and critically Collier’s, with its massive audience. Lamont told Beck
that “[t]he Duce should be presented to the public not as a warrior or in warlike
Page 429
Page 429
attitudes, but in pastoral, agricultural, friendly, domestic and peaceful
attitudes.”68 This was matched by deed, as Lamont journeyed to Italy in April
1937, meeting among others Azzolini and Mussolini. His willingness to visit
was seen as a benediction for Fascism. Detailing his half-hour meeting with
Mussolini, Lamont told his partners that his impression was that Mussolini was
not unduly upset about Morgan unwillingness to provide credits. He reported
that Il Duce had insisted on his peaceful intent, which Lamont questioned. When
asked by Mussolini what his advice was, Lamont counselled greater amity with
Britain and the United States, particularly through closer economic cooperation.
Recounting the interview, Lamont told his partners that he had informed the
dictator that “many Americans” admired him but there were concerns in the
United States about his policy course. Spain, he indicated, did not come up due
to its delicacy and because he had been informed not to raise the subject. The
foregoing, Lamont informed New York, had been passed to Phillips, from
August 1936 the American ambassador at Rome, who had promised to cable
Hull.69 A memorandum, to assist Fummi in deciphering American public
opinion for Italian audiences, followed.
Wooing Rome conformed to the broader Morgan wish to see prosperity and
stability through international trade and economic cooperation. More crucial,
however, was a pragmatic consideration: Vatican business. Lamont’s diary for
April 1937 recorded that he and Fummi visited the Vatican to discuss Nogara’s
investment plans: “Told him I thought $ still best currency. He will probably
transfer some of his £3000 m from London.” While this hope petered out by the
early summer, Nogara’s visit to the United States with Fummi in November
1937 resulted in substantial investments, with Nogara purchasing $3.5 million in
stocks and treasury bonds guided by J.P. Morgan & Co.70 Given the sharp
contraction of the American economy in 1937–38 and the continued financial
Page 430
Page 430
challenges the bank faced, there was greater importance attached to Vatican
funds. Dealing with Nogara necessitated a modicum of goodwill toward
Fascism. A second factor was non-financial, driven by the Morgan desire to
follow Washington. Phillips did not disguise his sympathies for the Fascist
regime. He enjoyed considerable influence with Hull from his past tenure and
his conspicuous flattery of the secretary of state.71 He was listened to as well by
the president. Roosevelt had revoked his Neutrality Proclamations in June 1936
after months of American oil companies flouting with impunity limitations on
trade to belligerents. Reluctant or not, the step signposted the administration
attitude. More generally, Roosevelt’s passivity regarding Mussolini from 1935 to
1937 sent a signal which J.P. Morgan & Co. could hardly fail to interpret.72
Cordial relations with the Roosevelt administration on foreign policy were
imperative, a salience motivated in part by the Nye investigation.
*****
Nye was the second of the series of Senate investigations during the 1930s in
which J.P. Morgan & Co. played a starring role. Although the Nye Committee
had been charged with exploring the American munitions industry and American
involvement in World War I, those engaged appreciated that the politics of Nye
were not exclusive to either munitions or to what had happened between 1914
and 1918. Contemporary preoccupations swirled, as the Italo-Ethiopian war
loomed and was then realized, sparking fears of a greater conflagration to come.
Neutrality was on all lips. Unlike Pecora, Nye was domestic and international in
its scope. Domestic concerns had ruled Pecora, amid the ravages of the
Depression and the hope registered in the Hundred Days. Then Roosevelt had
encouraged inquiry into J.P. Morgan. Now the president was arrayed against the
Nye Committee exploration, as was the State department, as were the British and
French governments. Roosevelt, Hull, and their counterparts in London and
Page 431
Page 431
Paris feared that the revelations that might ensue from allowing Nye
investigators to rummage unimpeded in the Morgan files would be embarrassing.
The consequence, as a column by Raymond Gram Swing in The Nation
observed on 1 May 1935, was that Roosevelt, Hull, Baldwin, Sir Ronald Lindsay
(the British ambassador), and Senators Nye, Bennett Clark of Missouri, and
James Pope of Idaho were negotiating what investigators might see. This was
understandable, Swing thought, mixing his metaphors: “the banking aspect is the
climax, and Morgan and Company is the heart of the problem.”73 Months of
talks ensued. Agreement was reached at length in August. The British and
French turned over sensitive files to the State department, who deposited them in
a secure room where the Nye investigators were permitted to pore over the
documents but were not allowed to remove them.
Throughout these discussions, J.P. Morgan & Co. was happy to let the
Roosevelt administration and the British and French governments combat the
Nye Committee. Occasionally the partners raised the investigation, as Lamont
did when he visited Baldwin in July 1935, but they preferred to remain in the
background.74 They did not repeat the misstep of 1933 when Lamont had
attempted to head off the Pecora investigation through a direct appeal to
Roosevelt. Contrasting with the drawn-out negotiations on the international side,
the partners skirmished only briefly with the Nye investigators, before retreating
abruptly, granting Nye’s nonplussed team more or less open access to their files.
Lawrence Brown, who headed the New York financial investigative team for
Nye, told Alger Hiss (in the Washington office of the Nye Committee team), on
3 May that:
For some reason which I have not yet completely fathomed, Morgans have
suddenly and apparently completely reversed their attitude. After three
weeks of trying to give us surface nonsense about their business, they
Page 432
Page 432
turned around yesterday and coughed up their confidential correspondence
and cables and a complete transcript of repayments on the famous overdraft
… What this change in attitude means, I don’t know. Whether they have
suddenly decided that they must yield anyway and that the ultimate
responsibility is the British Government’s or whether they hope by being
ninety-eight per cent frank it will be easier to conceal the other two per cent
on the ground that we will be off our guard, I don’t know. The problem I
suppose is to wait and see.75
As Brown suspected, the Morgan partners had a plan.
The day that Brown wrote Hiss, Leffingwell wrote Carter Glass, to inquire
whether he wished to stay with Leffingwell on his upcoming visit to New York.
The invitation afforded Leffingwell opportunity to advance his purpose, namely
informing Glass that Nye was planning to argue that the United States had
entered the war to save Morgan loans, that the Treasury had lent Britain money
to discharge the loans, and that Leffingwell, then in the Treasury, was
instrumental in this process. Leffingwell disparaged these assertions, describing
them as “grotesque,” before remarking tartly that: “Surely there must be enough
men living to remember the violation of Belgian neutrality, the sinking of the
Lusitania and finally the unrestricted U-boat campaign, on the one hand, and the
antagonism and even hostility between Wall Street and Wilson, Bryan, McAdoo,
to make such a canard fall flat.” Leffingwell continued that, while he did not
know Nye, he found it impossible to believe that he would stoop so low.
Responding the next day, Glass, politely declining Leffingwell’s invitation,
remarked: “I do not think you need give yourself any worry about Nye’s
investigation. He cuts very little figure in the Senate and should he make any
attack on the Wilson Administration you may be sure that McAdoo and I will be
prepared to meet the issue.”76 Glass had been secretary of the Treasury in the
Page 433
Page 433
Wilson administration from 1918 to 1920, succeeding McAdoo, who had held
the position from 1913 to 1918. The two Senators commanded first-hand
knowledge of American finance and the American entry into war in 1917 that
Nye could not match; both men revered Wilson and would, as Glass assured, be
alert to any tarnishing of his legacy. Glass and McAdoo’s posture joined with
Roosevelt’s opposition to ensure that the political calculus of the Nye hearings
was much more favourable to J.P. Morgan & Co. than Pecora had been.
The partners had been caught unaware by Pecora, with the compression of
the time frame between announcement of the investigation and the giving of
their testimony in Washington working against them. Morgan efforts to portray
the Pecora hearings as validating their integrity were ex post facto, leaving the
shaping of the narrative, for good or ill, to others. A determination not to let this
happen again pervaded the Corner. Nye helped. Addressing a crowd of 2,500 at
Carnegie Hall on 27 May 1935 in the company of Senator Clark, sharing the
stage with representatives of the National Peace Conference and the National
Council for Prevention of War, aware that Lamont was in the audience, Nye
listed four classes of public enemies. Public enemy number two was the banker.
J.P. Morgan & Co. was the only banking firm that Nye mentioned.77 There could
be no doubt who Nye intended to target. Several weeks after the Carnegie Hall
event, Wasson who had replaced Egan as Lamont’s principal aide on public
relations questions, wrote Leffingwell. Wasson was direct – he argued that J.P.
Morgan & Co. had to take the offensive against Nye, rather than letting Nye
draw out what he wanted through sustained grilling of Morgan partners on the
stand. Wasson warned:
All the innuendoes that a Senatorial inquisition delights in will thus be
exploited to the full, and all the tricks of the stage setting will be used.
Nye’s thunder must be stolen from him in advance. We must take the edge
Page 434
Page 434
off the figures by issuing them ourselves in a connected narrative, in their
right setting. Furthermore, they will draw less newspaper attention in that
way than if extracted, after all these years, from a Morgan partner, in the
presence of the public, by St. Gerald the Evangel of Peace.78
There followed a campaign. Of the quality New York papers, the New York
Herald Tribune, indebted to Morgan goodwill, could be counted on to be for the
Corner, but its star columnist, Lippmann, was an unknown quantity. His writing
had wounded the partners deeply during Pecora. Lippmann, however, was no
longer a New Deal partisan, had no brief for Nye, and was dubious about
neutrality. His sin against the Morgan firm overlooked, Lippmann was enlisted.
He was the recipient of a memorandum from Lamont entitled “Neutrality and
Munitions” defending Morgan conduct during American neutrality. Lippmann
told Lamont that the memorandum was “very useful.”79 The New York Times
was the other paper that mattered. Lamont passed on material to Bell that made
its way via Arthur Krock to the publisher, Arthur Hays Sulzberger, casting doubt
on Nye’s methods.80 Leffingwell subsequently wrote Noyes, still with the Times,
to praise its editorials in late October on why the United States entered the war.
He took the opportunity, once more, to hammer home the Morgan argument:
“When I read now that we went to war to collect the Morgan loans, or to make
profits for munitions manufacturers, I pinch myself and wonder, can I be
dreaming? … Morgan influence in the Democratic administration of President
Wilson was considerably less than nothing.”81
To support the Morgan case, Lamont looked for academic expertise to
wield against the popularity of works such as Walter Millis’ Road to War,
1914–17 (1935). Millis had argued that economic self-interest had tied the
United States irrevocably to the Allied cause, even if the American declaration
of war was not attributable directly to the financiers. Lamont found what he
Page 435
Page 435
wanted in Charles Seymour, a diplomatic historian at Yale and editor of the
papers of Colonel House, whose 1934 book, American Diplomacy during the
World War, was followed by American Neutrality, 1914–17: Essays on the
Causes of American Intervention (1935). Seymour reviewed Millis in Southwest
Review and The Yale Review in 1935. Seymour dismissed the Millis argument as
an unfounded misreading of the evidence and, by implication, suggested that the
Nye investigation was baseless.82 Seymour tackled head-on the notion of
economic causes for American belligerency, rubbishing the idea, particularly in
his slim 1935 essay collection. Seymour’s efforts extended beyond his reviews
of Millis. He was commissioned by Lamont to write a series of memoranda,
fourteen in all, that covered wartime American diplomacy. As a sweetener,
Lamont subsidized the publication of Seymour’s 1935 book, purchasing enough
copies from Yale University Press to guarantee its viability. The bank assisted
publication in another way – helping to draft the leaflet that accompanied the
book on its publication.83
Lamont deployed Seymour’s standing to suggest to John Foster Dulles, then
at the New York law firm of Sullivan and Cromwell, that he might consider
penning a “brief article” on Millis.84 James T. Shotwell, of Columbia University
and the director of research at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace,
was recruited. Shotwell was an outspoken advocate of the League of Nations and
had a dim view of Millis’ bestseller. Shotwell believed that American entry to
the League would help thwart Nye. Leffingwell was incredulous about this
notion, but Shotwell’s September 1935 article, “The Promise of the League,”
that appeared in the New York Times magazine, was sufficient proof of his good
faith for such scepticism to remain buried.85 The Morgan partners did not restrict
themselves solely to intermediaries. When William Chenery of Collier’s
approached Lamont about writing an article on bankers and the war from 1914
Page 436
Page 436
to 1917, Lamont agreed, eventually working his way through eight drafts with
the help of Leffingwell, Whitney, Stanley, and his son, Thomas S. Lamont.
While the piece never appeared, the exercise proved useful to the partners,
preparing them for the hearings to come. Communication between Lamont and
Chenery demonstrated that Lamont, in tandem with Parker Gilbert, was
influencing the editorial policy of Collier’s as well as articles appearing under
George Creel’s byline.86
Once the hearings opened, the Morgan partners, as they had been during
Pecora, were the star attraction. Once again, the partners decamped to
Washington, on this occasion to the Shoreham hotel. Once again, the press
coverage was overwhelming, the crush inside the hearing room making the
atmosphere fetid. The bank had learned from Pecora about how to manage and
to respond to senatorial investigations. The partners and their staff responded
with alacrity to every line of questioning raised, circulating supporting material
for the Morgan position, drawn from the preparatory work that the firm had
undertaken, to grateful journalists. Adding to this was the personal touch, with
the partners, led by Jack Morgan, making themselves available for interviews
and comment to the media, an openness that charmed the assembled reporters. It
helped that the Nye who had inveighed so lustily against J.P. Morgan & Co. at
Carnegie Hall was scarcely in evidence during the hearings. His interjections
were infrequent, his attitude cautious (see Figure 7.1). Less anti-business than he
was made out to be, also less Progressive in his sympathies, and imbued with a
strong sense of the gravity of his responsibility as chair, Nye let others lead.87
Most of the questioning of the Morgan partners – Jack Morgan, Lamont, and
Whitney principally – emanated from Clark.88
Page 437
Page 437
Figure 7.1 Senator Gerald P. Nye in conference with Thomas W. Lamont,
Jack Morgan, and George Whitney during the Nye hearings, 1936.
Bettmann/Getty Images.
Jack Morgan, after being sworn in, as he had in 1933, read a short
statement. Unlike 1933, when Jack Morgan spoke in lofty terms about the duties
of the private merchant banker, his remarks to the Nye Committee spoke directly
to neutrality. Jack Morgan admitted that he and his partners had not been neutral
either in thought or in deed from the moment that Germany invaded Belgium in
1914. They had done all that they could, within the confines of American law, to
bring about Allied victory. He concluded unapologetically: “The fact that the
Allies found us useful and valued our assistance in their task is the fact of which
I am most proud in all my business life of more than 45 years.” Yet he denied
that the actions of J.P. Morgan & Co. had induced the Wilson administration to
declare war in 1917, placing the blame for American intervention entirely on
Germany.89 This laid down an unwavering Morgan position, as became apparent
during the days of testimony by the partners on 7–10 January, 13–16 January,
Page 438
Page 438
and 4–5 February. Pecora in 1933 had played a strong hand skilfully; Clark and
Nye, dealt a less powerful hand, played it less well.
To some extent the difficulties they faced arose from the material. The
published record of the committee hearings illustrates the problem. For the
crucial opening two days of the hearings the topics addressed were the structure
and valuation of J.P. Morgan & Co.; financial operations at the outbreak of war;
the change in government policy toward belligerent loans; the material given to
the committee by J.P. Morgan & Co; the attempts of the National City Bank to
establish a commercial agency; the early expansion of the rifle industry; the
financial difficulties of the rifle manufacturers; the relation of British finance to
the rifle situation; the settlement of the rifle difficulties; and the control of the
Eddystone Ammunition Corporation. The evidentiary trail was intricate. One of
the first witnesses was Frank Vanderlip, a former National City banker whose
national renown was non-existent. The hearing then wandered into the thickets
of rifle procurement and, crucially, did not show the culpability of J.P. Morgan &
Co. in the American move to war. As the hearings moved deeper into the war
years and neared 1917, the Morgan role in American intervention became
murkier. Clark and Nye acknowledged as much in an exchange with Jack
Morgan on 10 January:
S E N AT O R  C L A R K . This committee is not concerned with the relation between
J.P. Morgan & Co. and the British or French Governments, or any other
elements. What our committee is interested in is seeing the effect of certain
economic issues on our neutrality policy.
M R .  M O R G A N . You have not adhered to that entirely, Senator, because in
certain speeches by several members of the committee there have been
direct accusations against the New York bankers having brought on the war,
Page 439
Page 439
and that is one of the things with which I have not been particularly
pleased, and one of the things which is not borne out.
T H E  C H A I R M A N . I want to deny, as one member of the committee, that you
are right in concluding that the charge has been as direct as that.
M R .  M O R G A N . Well—.
T H E  C H A I R M A N . I am more convinced this morning than I have ever been at
any stage heretofore, that it was the commercial activity as a whole, in
which the bankers had a hand, which did finally break down completely our
neutrality.90
Here was the problem. Having placed J.P. Morgan & Co. at the heart of the
investigation, Nye was forced to retreat to the vague formulation of “commercial
activity as a whole” when Jack Morgan asserted that New York bankers had not
been responsible for American belligerency. Nye’s rejoinder was the Millis
argument, but it did not fare well amid the glare of the hearing room. The
Morgan partners told a simple story – they were following their beliefs in
helping the Allies. Spurred by a conviction that the German course was evil, J.P.
Morgan & Co. had taken a morally upstanding path. Pecora had had the
advantage of the taint of moral opprobrium arising from the misdeeds of the
Mitchells of the American banking world. Nye had no such crutch.91
When Nye injected morality the following week, he gave his opponents
ammunition. On 15 February, in the morning session of the committee, without
the Morgan partners present and only four out of seven senators attending, Clark
and Nye built a case connecting Allied war aims, the secret treaties, and
American belligerency. Nye charged that Wilson and his secretary of state,
Robert Lansing, had “falsified” their knowledge of the so-called secret treaties
binding the Allies at the Paris Peace Settlement talks in 1919. This statement
Page 440
Page 440
fractured the committee. The next day Pope, who had been absent when Nye
made his remark, read a statement repudiating Nye and the committee’s
investigation on the grounds that the committee had degenerated into mud-
slinging against Wilson.92 Pope was supported by Walter George of Georgia,
another committee member who had also not been in attendance. The latter’s co-
signature exposed an emerging fault line in the Senate Democratic caucus:
Southern Democratic senators whose politics were distant from Nye, Clark, and
Vandenberg took umbrage. At the forefront was Glass. Indignant at the slur to
Wilson’s name and reputation, he lambasted Nye on the floor of the Senate
“brutally and well.”93 Besieged within and without, the committee’s inquiry
foundered, its foes knew that its funds were exhausted, or nearly so.94 For the
Morgan partners, though they appeared again before the committee on 4 and 5
February, the hearings were over.
Nye was a triumph for J.P. Morgan & Co. Lamont told his former classmate
and long-time friend and correspondent North Duane that “Washington went off
better than we could have anticipated and what seemed at first like a hideous
dream is fading into a hectic but not rancorous memory.”95 The tone in major
media outlets was positive. Flattering commentaries appeared, complimenting
the Morgan response to the queries lobbed at them and Jack Morgan’s warmth in
dealing with reporters and senators alike. The bemused headline in the Christian
Science Monitor, “J.P. Morgan is now friend, not foe, of Newspapermen,”
captured the feeling. Time magazine featured Jack Morgan on the cover,
declaring that the hearings had been bereft of scandal, while clearing J.P. Morgan
& Co. of any suggestion that they had conspired to inveigle American
belligerency.96 There was a gratifying New York Times editorial:
Senator Nye himself had been so imprudent as to predict in public
addresses the horrifying nature of the discoveries that had been made and
Page 441
Page 441
would be revealed to the public … the prolonged and searching
investigation utterly failed to prove that there was any real foundation for
these charges. With the utmost frankness, patience and good nature, Mr.
Morgan and his partners answered every question, produced every relevant
document and explained every transaction. No one can have read the record
of the hearings without being convinced that all the attacks have been
successfully met … the firm under scrutiny was shown to have conducted
its affairs honorably and generously, with high regard for its great
responsibility, and to have taken no step in the delicate matter of war loans
without the knowledge and consent of the American Government.97
With much of the American press chiming its accord, it was left to Millis to
sound a dissonant note. Writing in The Nation, Millis decried the opinion
manufactured by a “flood” of letters from Lamont, aided by the New York Times
and others, that had concealed the truth, namely that economic considerations
had driven the United States into war even if the bankers alone were not
responsible. What mattered, Millis averred, was forging effective neutrality
legislation, a reference to the ongoing tussle over the expiring 1935 Neutrality
Act.98
Wrangling between Congress and the Roosevelt administration on
neutrality, though concurrent with the Nye inquiry into J.P. Morgan & Co., was
independent of what was transpiring in the Senate Caucus room. The successful
Morgan defence repelled the charge that they had duped the Wilson
administration into war, instead reinforcing their identification with the Allied
cause. American public opinion, offended by Mussolini’s Ethiopian rapacity,
could hardly fail to draw the lesson that J.P. Morgan & Co. continued to support
London and Paris even as disclosure of the Hoare–Laval Pact demonstrated the
extent to which Britain and France were determined to avoid a general war
Page 442
Page 442
arising from Mussolini’s ambitions.99 If the 1936 Neutrality Act was a
compromise between the Roosevelt administration on the one hand and
congressional opponents on the other, its prohibition on loans and credits to
warring states was an implicit rebuke of Morgan financial aid to the Allies from
1914 to 1917. More to the point, the legislation represented a fear that J.P.
Morgan & Co. would be drawn once more to support Britain and France should
a general war occur in Europe. This was tilting at windmills, for Morgan
enthusiasm for European loans was non-existent – the cumulative effect of Nazi
repudiation, Italian fecklessness, the Johnson Act, and straitened Morgan
finances occasioned by the Depression had ended any desire of the partners for
European credits. J.P. Morgan & Co. had no more wish to see war in Europe than
any senator.
*****
Undeclared war had come to Asia years earlier. Officers of the Japanese
Kwantung army conspired to manufacture an explosion on the South
Manchurian railroad in September 1931. Blaming the Mukden Incident, as it
became known, on the Chinese, the Kwantung army used the bombing as a
pretext to overrun Manchuria. Manchuria proved the starting point rather than
the conclusion of Japanese expansionism in China. A vicious struggle for control
of Shanghai that engaged the Japanese army and navy against Jiang Jieshi’s
Nationalist troops early in 1932 was followed by a report from Lord Lytton’s
commission empowered by the League of Nations to investigate Japanese
aggression in Manchuria. The Lytton report, made public on 1 October 1932, not
only chastised Japan, placing the blame on Tokyo for aggression in Manchuria, it
disavowed the existence of the puppet state of Manchukuo, which had been
extended diplomatic recognition by Japan a month earlier. The rebuke was
shrugged off; Japan moved to occupy the province of Jehol late in February 1933
Page 443
Page 443
and, subsequently, in the face of the General Assembly’s adoption of the Lytton
report, departed the League of Nations in March 1933.
Japan was unique in the Morgan firmament. Its singularity did not arise
from either the scale or frequency of Morgan lending – between 1924 and 1930
J.P. Morgan & Co. made four loans to Japan, two (1924 and 1930) to the
Japanese government and two more to the cities of Yokohama (1926) and Tokyo
(1927) – which Morgan lending to Europe surpassed. Japan was distinctive
because it was Lamont’s special province. The difficulties arising from Nazi
ambitions or Mussolini’s expansionism engaged the Morgan houses in London
and Paris as well as Fummi in Rome, while in New York multiple partners
registered their views on what should be done. Tokyo, as Harry Morgan told
Carosso, was Lamont’s bailiwick.100 Not all J.P. Morgan partners viewed the
Japanese connection favourably. Thomas S. Lamont, for one, did not cloak his
racial prejudices when writing his partner Harry Davison on the occasion of a
looming social occasion with Japanese guests.101 His father, however, was
different. Lamont was a long-standing member of the Japan Society, acting as its
honorary vice-president from 1931 to 1937. Along with Martin Egan, Lamont
served on the Institute for Pacific Relations, established in 1925, which
published the journal Pacific Affairs. Egan had been one of the original owners
of The Manila Times and was an active member of the American Asiatic
Association, serving as its vice-president in 1927 and then president from 1928
to 1929. Egan was convinced of Lamont’s influence with Tokyo. Writing in
December 1929, after a lunch Lamont and Egan had attended for the Japanese
delegation heading to the upcoming London Naval Conference, Egan reminded
Morrow, one of the American delegates, “I hope when you meet these men again
you will recall to them that you are the intimate friend and former partner of
T.W. Lamont. His influence is greater than that of any American with the powers
Page 444
Page 444
that be in Japan.”102 Whether Lamont’s writ extended as far as Egan believed is
questionable, but there was no doubt that it was Lamont who was determinant in
the evolution of Morgan policy vis-à-vis Tokyo in the 1930s.
Outside the bank several figures in the American diplomatic establishment
molded Lamont’s posture: Joseph Grew, from June 1932 to December 1941 the
American ambassador at Tokyo, was well known to the Morgan partners, while
Stanley Hornbeck, the chief of the Far Eastern division in the State department,
was a frequent correspondent. Hornbeck doubted Tokyo more and more through
the 1930s.103 The most consequential outsider was Nelson T. Johnson, from
February 1930 to 1935 the American minister to China and then ambassador to
Jiang’s Nationalist government from 1935 to 1941. Johnson was to be critical in
prodding Lamont to shed long-standing convictions about China and Japan.
Lamont had first visited Japan in 1920. On his return, he wrote an article
that appeared in The Atlantic in February 1921, entitled “The Two Japans.”
Lamont argued that there were two Japans: one that he labelled “liberal,” drawn
principally from “men of affairs,” businessmen, merchants, and bankers who
favoured trade and peaceful international development; and a second that he
called “the militarists” who believed that the world was “ruled by force rather
than by ideas” and who aspired to dominate Asia. The militarists were
convinced that food supply was crucial and that Japan must secure it. Lamont
thought that Americans did not understand Japan – they tended to think that it
was a country of militarists, whereas in his judgement, it was “a nation loving
peace and ardently desirous of peace with the United States.”104 Whatever the
accuracy of the views that Lamont ascribed to his fellow Americans, the
categorization that he made of “the two Japans,” and the tension between the
two, stayed with him for much of the 1930s and was apparent in his response to
the Mukden Incident.
Page 445
Page 445
The day of the Mukden Incident was the day that the Morgan partners
learned that Britain planned to abandon gold. The drama playing out in Britain
fixed the Morgan gaze far from Manchuria. It was not until 1 October that
Lamont sent Lippmann a memorandum placing responsibility for what had
transpired in Manchuria on Chinese irresponsibility. Lippmann had doubts about
this view, which Leffingwell hastened to reinforce, blaming “Chinese raiders
and revolutionaries” for the violence, commending Japanese commitment to
order in Manchuria, and assailing the idea of League or American support for
China.105 Several weeks later, a full-scale defence of Japanese actions in
Manchuria, ostensibly written by Inoue Junnosuke, the minister of finance and a
friend of Lamont’s, appeared on the front page of the New York Times. It had, in
fact, been ghostwritten by Lamont.106 Historians have wondered if Lamont was
duped by his Japanese friends, if prejudices against China and the Chinese were
overriding, if it was a case of an amoral banker wishing to hold on to business in
harsh times, or if all were at work in accounting for Lamont’s acceptance of
Tokyo’s protestations.107
The fullest exposition of Lamont’s thinking was decanted to Dean Jay in
mid-November 1931:
Devoted as some of us are to the principles of the League of Nations, we
think that in this particular matter, the members of the Council have been
somewhat fooled by the Chinese. The Chinese are such a likeable people
that they readily arouse public sympathy, especially because fifteen or
twenty years ago the Japanese attitude towards them was certainly
hardboiled. But we think that in the Manchurian situation the Chinese have
been really the aggressors in that they have apparently had no interest in
observing existing treaties and have not hesitated to encourage roving bands
to beat up Japanese nationals both within and without the Railway zone. Of
Page 446
Page 446
course, in a confused situation like this, no one can say that either side is
without fault. But in our judgment, the Japanese have no imperialistic
designs in Manchuria … Four years ago when I was last in Japan, the
Japanese Authorities were earnestly begging the Chinese to sit down with
them in a friendly way to thrash out all questions in reference to Manchuria.
This the Chinese have constantly refused to do, apparently thinking that by
making a great public case, they could begin to force the Japanese out of
Manchuria entirely. From the Press reports it would seem that the League
Authorities gave rather complete credence to the Chinese view. If the
League should insist that the Chinese should sit down and negotiate with
the Japanese or else give the Japanese such assurances as could be relied
upon, that Japanese nationals in the railway zone would not have their
throats cut, the difficulties would be much lessened. Love from us all.108
Here was a potpourri – the League was gullible, the Chinese masterful
propagandists playing on their status as victims, the Japanese selfless guardians
of law and order immune from designs on empire, seeking only stability. Lamont
was convinced that responsibility for what had ensued was due to Chinese
provocation. He believed, genuinely, that Tokyo should be absolved.
The departure by Japan from the gold standard in December 1931, while a
blow, was unsurprising, less traumatic than the shock of sterling leaving gold,
and did little to shake Morgan faith in Tokyo. Stimson’s announcement that the
United States would not recognize Japanese conquests in Manchuria was also
absorbed with equanimity, given that Hoover had rejected the notion of levying
economic sanctions, a step that the Corner regarded as ineffectual. The
assassinations of Inoue (February 1932) and Baron Dan Takuma (March 1932)
occurred as the fighting in Shanghai blossomed. Both men were known to
Lamont and both were identified with the liberal cause. Political violence
reached an apex in the murder of Prime Minister Inukai Tsuyoshi on 15 May
Page 447
Page 447
1932 at the hands of junior naval officers. The conspiracy had more far-reaching
aims, including the denunciation of the 1930 London Naval Treaty, attacking the
Bank of Japan, and targeting the Lord Privy Seal, Makino Nobuaki, a confidant
of the emperor. The outcome was the breakdown of Japanese party politics. For
Lamont, these events buttressed his understanding of what was transpiring – a
struggle between liberals and militarists, in which the latter, enraged, were
gaining the ascendancy through terror.
Throughout these chaotic months, Lamont charted a cautious diplomatic
course with the Hoover administration and Japanese interlocutors. He told
William Castle, the under-secretary of state, late in January 1932 that Japanese
ability to borrow money in the United States had vanished, a message that may
have been transmitted by Hoover to Tokyo.109 In the wake of Dan’s murder,
Lamont reinforced this directly, writing the manager of the Yokohama Specie
Bank in New York that it was impossible for Japan to raise money in the United
States. The letter, as Lamont had undoubtedly expected, was passed on to
Viscount Takahashi Korekiyo, the minister of finance and the true intended
recipient of the missive. Takahashi had served before 1914 as president of the
Yokohama Specie Bank and governor of the Bank of Japan. Fluent in English, he
knew Lamont. Takahashi replied with a defence of the Japanese army, blaming
Chinese provocateurs and the legitimate fears of the Japanese community in
Shanghai as forcing a firm military response. This was dismissed as claptrap by
Lamont when he forwarded it to Stimson. The contradiction between this
reaction and what Lamont had asserted previously was stark. Simultaneously,
Lamont was updating the secretary of state on Japanese efforts to borrow in
Britain and the United States and their purchases of American cotton (which he
reassured Stimson could not be used as gun cotton). When Lamont wrote
Takahashi back, he did so with Stimson’s sanction, couching his letter as the
considered opinion of an American friend of Japan who wished to remain such,
Page 448
Page 448
warning Takahashi that the Japanese image in the United States had suffered a
severe blow. When no response was received, Lamont persisted, despatching two
cables to Takahashi, with still no reply.110 A month later, visiting Europe,
Lamont met with Matsudaira Tsuneo, the former Japanese ambassador to the
United States, the current ambassador at London, and the future head of the
Imperial Household Agency. Coordinating with Norman Davis, then in Europe
on the administration’s behalf, Lamont urged Matsudaira to have a “frank”
discussion with Stimson about the tensions in the relationship between Tokyo
and Washington occasioned by Shanghai. Davis, who had separate discussions
with Matsudaira, told Lamont that he had the impression that compromise might
be possible, because the Japanese army was fearful of Soviet complications in
Manchuria.111 While this diplomatic activity suggested Lamont’s uneasiness, his
qualms were eased by Egan.
Returned from a recent trip to Japan, Egan composed a long memorandum
for Lamont. Egan confessed that he travelled believing that the Japanese Army
was responsible for the Shanghai paroxysm. He came home convinced
otherwise: it was Japanese residents in Shanghai who had clamoured for
protection and that the army demurred, but the Imperial Navy responded, “which
bungled it tragically.” As for the Manchurian intervention, it was, Egan
conceded, “deliberately undertaken by the Army.” Why? Because the policy of
conciliation vis-à-vis China had failed, “[a]nd it may generally, but fairly, be
said that it failed because China did not play the game. It failed so badly, too,
that no Japanese Government could defend or survive it.” According to Egan,
the emperor had sanctioned the Manchurian intervention but kept it secret from
the Japanese Foreign Office. Hirohito’s room for manoeuvre was constrained by
growing influence of the military faction, as evidenced by General Araki Sadao,
the minister of war in the Inukai government, described by Egan as a “fanatic.”
Page 449
Page 449
Araki’s sympathy for the ultra-nationalist Blood Brotherhood, responsible for
the assassinations of Inoue and Dan, was open. Egan defended the officers and
members of the patriotic societies involved: “One can understand much of the
feeling against politicians held by the officers of the Army and by members of
patriotic societies because there was a great deal of corruption and incompetence
… the party system has probably failed in Japan.” Having justified terrorism
dedicated to eradicating liberal Japan, Egan ventured that it was the emperor’s
influence that was responsible for the crackdown on the ultra-nationalist
societies. None of the foregoing, Egan thought, implied a worsening of relations
between the United States and Japan. Tokyo, he insisted, was committed to the
open-door policy in Manchuria and desired good relations with Washington. The
emperor, Egan remarked, had made known his aversion to any policy course that
might lead to war with the United States, which was a contingency that must be
avoided.112 Here was an analysis that conformed to Lamont’s two Japans, albeit
with the wrinkle that it was the emperor whose engagement was restraining the
militarists from outright triumph. Crucially, Japan wanted to stay on good terms
with the United States and the other leading Western powers – at least in Egan’s
reading.
After 15 May an uneasy calm descended. Distressed at the savagery of the
Depression in the United States, distracted by the looming presidential
campaign, Japan receded from the Morgan outlook. Waiting – for the Lytton
report – took centre stage. When it appeared in October 1932, Lamont wrote
Stimson, suggesting that, despite the report’s conclusions regarding Japanese
behaviour, the appropriate tack was silence. Nothing, Lamont felt, would be
gained through undue publicity.113 It was thus no surprise to find Egan telling de
Sanchez early in 1933, “I agree that the Japanese have gone way off the
reservation but I am not prepared to go very far in the task of keeping them in
Page 450
Page 450
order.”114 Morgan quiescence reflected the crushing weight of the Depression,
the lame-duck status of the Hoover administration, and the hope for Roosevelt.
Contributing was an ongoing belief that liberal authority in Japan would make a
comeback. Grew, whose circle of Japanese friends and acquaintances overlapped
with that of Lamont and Egan, thought this was occurring. Matsudaira, among
others, had reassured him that the liberals would return to their ascendancy. Until
the April 1934 announcement by a foreign ministry spokesman of the Amau
Doctrine, which made plain Japan’s desire to dominate the Far East, Grew
listened. Thereafter, he became steadily more sceptical of the notion of liberal
restraint. Lamont and Egan, like Grew, knew the same circles – the businessmen,
the financiers, the diplomats, the older courtiers around the emperor, whose
predisposition to the West was marked.115 Neither Lamont nor Egan knew the
army officers, whose dynamic radicalism powered military factionalism and
drove the course of Japanese foreign policy and domestic politics in the 1930s.
Consequently, Lamont’s view of Japan was through a narrow aperture, often
fuzzy, showing a liberal image.
Renewed Japanese expansionism, with the seizure of Jehol and their
contemptuous departure from the League early in 1933, was insufficient to
induce Morgan comment. Partisans of the League when it was first mooted, the
Morgan partners, though they continued to contribute financially to the League
of Nations Association, increasingly deemed the League a venue in which
foolish calls for boycotts and economic sanctions were made. This had its roots
in the Manchurian crisis, was to persist through the mid-1930s, and was given a
tremendous fillip by the Ethiopian crisis and the outbreak of the Sino-Japanese
War in 1937. Leffingwell, inclined to stridency, was the most ardent. Armstrong,
after meeting Leffingwell in the company of Lippmann in November 1935,
noted that both “expressed strong dislike and mistrust” of the sanctions
Page 451
Page 451
advocated by the League.116 Writing Lamont at the end of November 1935,
Leffingwell put his objection to the League and what it stood for succinctly: “I
don’t believe in embargoes, boycotts, ostracism, political or social, sanctions, or
any other form of so-called peaceful coercion. Far from tending to keep us out of
war I think all these methods tend to involve us in war.” During the war
Leffingwell went further, charging that the League was in part responsible for
the conflict: “I think it was as bad as opium, a habit-forming drug administered
to the good countries which left them almost helpless at the mercy of the bad
countries.”117 Such views led Leffingwell to question the idea of American
interference in the affairs of Japan. Leffingwell criticized his partner’s October
1937 Chicago speech on the grounds that the United States had no business
telling other states how to order their affairs, something that he believed both
Lamont and Roosevelt had indulged in.118 If Lamont’s views on the League
were less antagonistic than Leffingwell’s, there was little question that the two
had moved a considerable distance from endorsement of the League.
Japan’s withdrawal from the League was thus less unsettling than it may
have been thought to the Corner. Home affairs, naturally, absorbed the bank.
Amid multiple pressures, J.P. Morgan & Co., facing the upcoming Pecora
hearings, coping with the New Deal, and fixated on Glass–Steagall, shunted
Asian affairs to a siding. There they remained, rusting, until 1937. The absence
of fresh violence in China, where an uneasy truce had descended, contributed to
this state of affairs. So too did violence in Europe, where the Night of the Long
Knives, the failed Nazi coup in Austria, the murder of Alexander of Yugoslavia,
Mussolini’s war against Ethiopia, and the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War
marked a sanguinary trail that commanded attention. Lamont’s involvement in
Japanese and Chinese affairs in 1933–34 revolved principally around the hopes
expressed initially by Jiang’s minister of finance, T.V. Soong, of resurrecting the
Page 452
Page 452
old China consortium of international banks as a vehicle to channel a substantial
loan to the Nationalist government. There were many obstacles, not least of
which was that Tokyo was opposed. Lamont, whose position as the chair of the
China consortium made him critical, was non-committal. The past history of
loans to China had not gone well from the point of view of the bankers, a tale
that Lamont did not hesitate to recapitulate as Soong, and his successor H.H.
Kung, pressed the scheme.119 Setting aside the risks associated with lending
money to the Nationalists, which Lamont regarded as high, there was the
problem of Japan. As he wrote Johnson in October 1933, “I told Soong more
than once that quite aside from the merits of the questions involved, there was no
hope of getting fresh Western capital for China on any scale as long as practical
warfare existed betwixt China and Japan.” Wistfully, he commented that,
[t]he internal situation of Japan is by no means satisfactory. Of course it can
be argued as to whether the attitude of the militarists is typical of that of
Japan as a whole. But it is clear that for the time being the old and prudent
element made up of your Count Makinos, Baron Dans, Inouyes, Shideharas,
Uchidas, et al, are either killed off or blanketed.120
Loans, in such an environment, seemed foolhardy. The State department, in the
persons of Hornbeck and Hull, was content to move slowly. With the enunciation
of the Amau Doctrine, Lamont and State remained “relatively inactive.”121
Avoidance of a Chinese loan did not mean greater closeness to Japan on the
part of J.P. Morgan & Co. It became apparent that internal Japanese politics were
dominated by competition among military factions, as the February 1936 mutiny
in Tokyo illustrated, and holding on to Lamont’s cherished “liberal” and
“militarist” duality became less plausible. A shift in his interactions with Japan
was evident from 1934 to 1935. This process was halting, framed by two
developments. One was the retirement of Egan. Recurrent health problems
Page 453
Page 453
forced his withdrawal from the Corner, taking with him a consistent pro-
Japanese voice. The counsel that issued from Wasson, Egan’s replacement as
Lamont’s principal aide on public relations, was very different. Asked by
Lamont in May 1937 to supply a memorandum on talking points for discussion
with a Japanese economic mission then touring the United States, an
undiplomatic answer was returned:
We feel that really what the Japs need is some advice about the way they
are behaving … you might suggest to the Japs that they quit fascism and
imperialism, quit the domination of Manchukuo, and the attempted
domination of China, and treat these two countries as independent nations,
with trade open to all on equal terms. We realize that this is a counsel of
perfection.122
The other development was Johnson’s waxing influence. The letters to Lamont –
commenting copiously on Chinese affairs and packed with insight – were written
with all the virtuosity that a veteran diplomat could command. Johnson warned
Lamont in April 1935 that Japanese engagement with China was driven by a
need to seize control of “China’s major resources,” which Japan was determined
to exclude others from, though he expressed the view that this would not solve
Tokyo’s conundrum.123 Lamont was unconvinced, remarking to Johnson after a
further exchange of letters,
I am sorry to see China under the control of Japan, or any other power, but
if she lacks the strength to protect herself from aggression and exploitation,
she can not reasonably expect the other nations to do the job for her.
Certainly America is not going to court trouble by any quixotic attempt to
checkmate Japan in Asia.
Page 454
Page 454
These expressions were consistent with the cautious remonstration that Lamont
had sent the previous fall to Fukai Eigo, the governor of the Bank of Japan,
advising a reduction in Japanese military expenditures to reassure Western states
that Japan was not bent on a policy of conquest in China.124 Johnson was not
deterred, telling Lamont that
the Japanese military now responsible for Japan’s foreign policy had made
up their minds eventually to eliminate all western influence of whatever
kind from the Asiatic continent … I say to you that the Japanese are utterly
contemptuous of the ability or willingness of the Western nations, singly or
in combination, to make any effort to oppose by force Japanese force.125
Far-fetched as this might have seemed, 1937 gave a great deal more credibility
to the ambassador’s warnings. With the outbreak of the Sino-Japanese War in
August 1937 following the Marco Polo Bridge Incident in July, the sack of
Nanking laid bare the extent of Japanese ruthlessness. The subsequent attack on
the USS Panay, in December 1937, accidental though it was, did little to
diminish fears of looming confrontation.
Lamont was converted. His private communications with Japanese
correspondents in September and October 1937 were markedly more critical of
Japanese policy, even if responses to American interlocutors remained wary.126
A lengthy reply to Johnson, self-justifying on Manchuria, which Lamont insisted
was Japan’s “life-line,” retreated from his previous position. Professing that the
Japanese diplomats whom he met in the United States were liberals opposed to
the actions of their government, Lamont confided that he now had no truck for
Japan or its military. The best thing, he remarked, would be if the Japanese
islands would sink into the sea and a lightning bolt struck the army. Japanese
military strength, Lamont thought, would allow Tokyo to rule metropolitan areas
as well as the seaboard, but the bulk of China would escape Japanese control,
Page 455
Page 455
leading to an endless guerrilla war. He told Johnson that American public
opinion was virtually 100 per cent pro-China. The solution, however, was not a
boycott, which Lamont rejected as unworkable. Circulating Johnson’s letters to
his partners, Lamont acknowledged their influence: “Here is what seems like a
very interesting letter from my friend Johnson, the American Ambassador to
China. It looks like it is really worth while perusing. The Ambassador has called
the turn in his letters to me in quite a remarkable way.” A personal aside to
Johnson was admiring: “You have now such a long knowledge of, and
experience in, the Far East that it has given you, if I may say so, an almost
uncanny gift of analysis and of prophecy.”127
*****
Japanese aggression, Johnson’s persuasiveness, and Egan’s withdrawal from J.P.
Morgan & Co. fostered a reappraisal of Lamont’s understanding of Japan. It was,
however, dogged by Lamont’s abiding conviction in the existence of liberal,
moderate voices as meaningful actors in Tokyo. If Japan was atypical in that
Lamont’s role was outsized within J.P. Morgan & Co., there was a shared
commonality in the Morgan approach to the changes in Germany and Italy.
Morgan reaction to the revisionist challengers was a mixture of dismay,
misapprehension, and shock. Forced by previous engagement with all three
states to cope, J.P. Morgan & Co. took refuge in closer ties with the Roosevelt
administration. There was little more that the partners could do; for, despite the
charges blaming Morgan for American belligerency in World War I, despite the
continued reiteration of claims about their sway with the White House, Morgan
say in American foreign policy was vanishing. The negotiations with Schacht
showed the limitations the Corner faced confronted with a determined regime.
Contributing to powerlessness was the private Morgan disavowal of the League
of Nations as well as their cavilling on Italy and Japan. The Morgan partners
Page 456
Page 456
never appreciated the imperatives driving Berlin, Rome, and Tokyo forward.
Blinkered at the ideological underpinnings, unwilling to damn the revisionist
challengers openly, the Corner contributed to the difficulty of descrying what
Germany, Italy, and Japan sought. Heightening the impact was that, because the
firm had played a significant role before 1933 in international relations,
American observers thought that it must still have a part to play. Amplifying this
was the narrative surrounding the Nye hearings, which encouraged belief in
Morgan consequence. Lamont’s October 1937 speech was public recognition of
a private truth – now that the signal had been given by the White House, it was
possible for J.P. Morgan & Co. to demonstrate their fealty by echoing the
president’s words.
Roosevelt’s quarantine speech was months in the making. While his
administration had pursued a policy of “inaction and nonprovocation” with
regard to Tokyo, by the summer of 1937 doing nothing chafed.128 War in China
was matched by war in Spain, where the flouting of non-intervention by
Germany and Italy was undisguised. The speech, drafted with the input of Hull
and Davis, targeted Germany, Italy, and Japan. However, it proposed little
concrete, abjuring boycotts or sanctions as impracticable. Its aims were
rhetorical rather than proscriptive, its audience less Berlin, Rome, and Tokyo and
more Des Moines, Denver, and Los Angeles. There was no expectation within
the White House that the speech would alter the behaviour of the aggressors, an
anticipation soon borne out by Nanking. There was more than a dollop of
distraction about the speech; Roosevelt had suffered serious political setbacks in
the months preceding, notably in his failure to restructure the Supreme Court.
There was, too, another cloud on the horizon – the economy was showing signs
of slowing down. As Roosevelt made his speech in Chicago, the American
Page 457
Page 457
economy was sliding into a vicious recession that threatened the recovery made
since he had come into office.
1 Chap. 4 of Mark Mazower, “The Crisis of Capitalism,” in Dark Continent:
Europe’s Twentieth Century, New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1999, pp. 104–37.
The literature on the crisis of the 1930s is enormous. One survey must suffice:
Zara Steiner, The Triumph of the Dark: European International History
1933–1939, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2011.
2 Robert Dallek, Franklin D. Roosevelt and American Foreign Policy,
1932–1945, New York: Oxford University Press, 1981. “Farewell to
Internationalism” is the title of Dallek’s chap. 4; “The Internationalist As
Isolationist, 1935–38,” is the title of part 2 of Dallek’s history. Alonzo
Hamby, For the Survival of Democracy: Franklin Roosevelt and the World
Crisis of the 1930s, New York: The Free Press, 2004, is more critical. Brooke
Blower has argued that the term “isolation” misconstrues the 1930s debate,
“From Isolationism to Neutrality: A New Framework for Understanding
American Political Culture, 1919–1941,” Diplomatic History, vol. 38, no. 3
(2014), pp. 345–76.
3 Richard Harrison, “A Neutralization Plan for the Pacific: Roosevelt and
Anglo-American Cooperation, 1934–1937,” Pacific Historical Review, vol.
57, no. 1 (1988), p. 48, takes exception, arguing that Roosevelt “vigorously
tried to assert American influence in the world from his earliest months in
office.”
4 Franklin D. Roosevelt, Annual Message to Congress, 3 January 1936, The
American Presidency Project, www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/annual-
message-congress-2; Kiran Klaus Patel, The New Deal: A Global History,
Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2016, pp. 1–9.
Page 458
Page 458
5 Ralph W. Henderson in his column, “Wall Street,” 29 July 1937 in the New
York World-Telegram. Henderson was the financial editor of The World-
Telegram, a Hearst paper critical of J.P. Morgan & Co. The clipping is in BL,
TWL, Series VI, Box 227, Folder 4.
6 The text of Roosevelt’s Address at Chicago, 5 October 1937, may be found
at The American Presidency Project,
www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/address-chicago; Lamont’s 22 October
1937 speech, given at the Commercial Club, was circulated widely, with front-
page coverage in the New York Times (the latter printed the speech in its
entirety) and the Wall Street Journal on 23 October 1937, while Banking
reprinted excepts in its December 1937 issue, vol. 30, no. 6, p. 86.
7 Roosevelt to Henry Wallace, 26 April 1941, in Elliott Roosevelt, ed., FDR:
His Personal Letters, 4 vols., New York: Duell, Sloan and Pearce, 1947–50,
vol. 2.
8 Notes taken by General Kurt Liebmann, 3 February 1933, cited in Jeremy J.
Noakes and Geoffrey Pridham, eds., Nazism, 1919–1945: A History in
Documents and Eyewitness Accounts, 2 vols., New York: Schocken Books,
1988, vol. 2, pp. 628–29; Ian Kershaw, Hitler: 1889–1936, 2 vols., London:
Allen Lane, 1998, vol. 1., pp. 441–42.
9 Adam Tooze, The Wages of Destruction: The Making and Breaking of the
Nazi Economy, London: Allen Lane, 2006, pp. 49–96.
10 Piet Clement, “‘The Touchstone of German Credit’: Nazi Germany and the
Service of the Dawes and Young Loans,” Financial History Review, vol. 11,
no. 1 (2004), pp. 38–42.
11 Avner Offner, “William E. Dodd: Romantic Historian and Diplomatic
Cassandra,” The Historian, vol. 24, no. 4 (1962), p. 454.
Page 459
Page 459
12 Lamont to Schacht, 7 April 1934, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 129, Folder 22.
13 Young to Schacht, 23 March 1934, CUL, Harrison papers, Box 45, Folder
Germany Dawes and Young bonds. On Young, SLU, ODY, Box 414, Folder
826 documents his efforts and those of J.P. Morgan & Co. and the BIS to stop
Schacht.
14 Lamont to de Sanchez, 23 April 1934, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 129, Folder
22; Dean Jay to J.P. Morgan & Co., 8 May 1934, TML, MBEP, Box 17,
Cables rec’d, 1 May to 31 August 1934.
15 Michael Butler’s account in Cautious Visionary: Cordell Hull and Trade
Reform, 1933–37, Kent, OH: Kent State University Press, 1998, pp. 97–112,
is favourable to Hull and less so to either Peek or Roosevelt.
16 Tooze, The Wages of Destruction, pp. 72–73, 86–89; Neil Forbes, “London
Banks, the German Standstill Agreements, and ‘Economic Appeasement’ in
the 1930s,” Economic History Review, 2nd series, vol. 40, no. 4 (1987), p.
579.
17 Norman diary, 2 March 1934, BE, ADM 34/23; Morgan Grenfell to J.P.
Morgan & Co., 28 February 1934, J.P. Morgan & Co. to Norman, 2 March
1934, Morgan Grenfell to J.P. Morgan & Co., 6 March 1934, J.P. Morgan &
Co. to Morgan Grenfell, 16 March 1934, BE, G1/446. Whigham to Dean Jay,
6 March 1934, TML, CP, Box 31, Morgan & Co. – Foreign Financings
Germany.
18 Lamont to Schacht, 7 April 1934, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 129, Folder 22.
A copy of the letter is in the Bank of England files, BE, G1/446 with the
marginalia.
19 Jack Morgan to Grenfell, 23 April 1934, Grenfell to Jack Morgan, 24 April
1934, Jack Morgan to Grenfell, 24 April 1934, TML, MBEP, Box 23, Folder
Page 460
Page 460
5.
20 Dean Jay to J.P. Morgan & Co., 25 April 1934, TML, MBEP, Box 17,
Cables sent, 16 February to 30 April 1934; Lamont to de Sanchez, 23 April
1934, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 129, Folder 22.
21 J.P. Morgan & Co. to MacDonald, 20 June 1934, TML, CP, Box 31,
Morgan & Co. – Foreign Financings Germany.
22 Otto D. Tolischus, “Germany Seizes Revenue Pledged for Dawes Loan,”
New York Times, 18 July 1934, p. 1.
23 Lamont to J.H. Brewster Jr., 14 October 1935, BL, TWL, Series IV/C, Box
182, Folder 13. Brewster Jr. was vice-president and treasurer of Aetna Life
Insurance.
24 Hamilton Fish Armstrong to Hull, 24 July 1934, Princeton, Mudd Library,
HFA Papers, Series 1, Box 36, Folder 7. Messersmith’s reports, especially
those in 1933–34, may be read in his papers at the University of Delaware
Library. Helpfully, the collection has been digitized and is online.
25 Frederick T. Birchall, “American Bankers Seek to Aid Reich: Hope to
Avert a Sudden Crash by Temporary Credits for Raw Materials,” New York
Times, 23 July 1934, p. 5.
26 Leffingwell to Lamont, 25 July 1934, YUL, RCL, Series 1, Box 4, Custom
96.
27 Lamont to Armstrong, 14 August 1934, Princeton, Mudd Library, HFA
papers, Box 40, Folder 3; Armstrong to George S. Messersmith, 20 August
1934, Messersmith to Armstrong, 2 October 1934, Princeton, Mudd Library,
HFA Papers, Series 1, Box 44, Folder 1.
Page 461
Page 461
28 Hull, Memoirs, vol. 1, p. 235.
29 Priscilla Roberts, “‘The Council Has Been Your Creation’: Hamilton Fish
Armstrong, Paradigm of the American Foreign Policy Establishment?,”
Journal of American Studies, vol. 35, no. 1 (2001), pp. 75–76.
30 Lamont diary, 9 July 1934, BL, TWL, Series IV B, Box 173, Folder 6. On
this entry there is a later marginal note, “Haha.” It is tempting to think
Lamont, rereading, wrote it.
31 Leffingwell to Lamont, 25 July 1934, YUL, RCL, Series 1, Box 4, Custom
96.
32 Parker Gilbert to Fraser, 6 August 1934, BL, TWL, Series IV C/Box 182,
Folder 6; Lamont to Parker Gilbert, 20 August 1934, BL, TWL, Series II, Box
96, Folder 4; Dean Jay to Leffingwell, 21 January 1935, NDJ papers, Knox
College.
33 Armstrong, 18 September 1935, Princeton, HFA papers, Series IV, Box 99.
The dinner was held on 17 September and was not disclosed to the press.
Present were the Dulles brothers, Stimson, Lippmann, and George Murnane (a
partner in Lazard Freres New York).
34 Lamont diary, 9 July 1934, BL, TWL, Series IV B, Box 173, Folder 6;
Leffingwell to Lamont, 25 July 1934, YUL, RCL, Series 1, Box 4, Custom 96;
Francis Rodd to Lamont, 6 February 1936, BL, TWL, Series IV C, Box 182,
Folder 14.
35 Leffingwell to Lamont, 19 October 1937, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4,
Folder 97; Volker Ullrich, Hitler, Vol. 1: Ascent, London: Vintage, 2016, pp.
586–89, for comments on Schacht, Hitler, and his paladins.
Page 462
Page 462
36 Lamont to Grenfell, 23 May 1935, BL, TWL, Series IV C, Box 182, Folder
9. Offner, “William E. Dodd,” pp. 451–69 is a defence of the ambassador.
37 Messersmith to William Phillips, 18 August 1934, University of Delaware,
George S. Messersmith papers, Series III, Box 4, F 25.
38 Migone, The United States and Fascist Italy, pp. 90–165, is the best
account of the Morgan relationship with Italy in the 1920s.
39 On Nogara, see John F. Pollard, Money and the Rise of the Modern Papacy:
Financing the Vatican, 1850–1950, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
2005, pp. 143–47.
40 Vivian Smith to Fummi, 25 August 1931, Herbert to Dean Jay, 8 January
1932, Whigham to Fummi, 24 November 1934, Morgan Grenfell to Fummi,
13 March 1933, Rodd to Amministrazione Speciale della Santa Sede, 24
October 1934, TML, CP, Box 9, Folder Morgan & Co. – MG & Co. Vatican
Business.
41 John F. Pollard, “The Vatican and the Wall Street Crash: Bernardino Nogara
and Papal Finances in the Early 1930s,” Historical Journal, vol. 42, no. 4
(1999), pp. 1077–91; Fummi to Morgan & Cie, 2 May 1934, TML, MBEP,
Box 17, Cables rec’d, 1 May to 31 August 1934.
42 Robert Mallett, Mussolini and the Origins of the Second World War,
1933–1940, London: Palgrave Macmillan, 2003, pp. 1–15, discusses the
historiography.
43 Rist to Leffingwell, 25 February 1933, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 7/145.
44 Christian Goeschel, Mussolini and Hitler: The Forging of the Fascist
Alliance, New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2018, pp. 27–36; Lamont
diary, 17 August 1933, BL, TWL, Series IV B/173/5.
Page 463
Page 463
45 Lamont to Cochran, 15 August 1934, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 87, Folder
16.
46 Leffingwell to Lamont, 25 July 1934, YUL, RCL, Series 1, Box 4, Folder
96.
47 Fummi to Morgan & Cie., 26 January 1935, TML, MBEP, Box 18, Cables
received, 2 January to 31 May 1935. The cable was relayed to New York.
48 David F. Schmitz, The United States and Fascist Italy 1922–1940, Chapel
Hill, NC: University of North Carolina Press, 1988, pp. 135–52, “moderating
influence,” p. 141.
49 John Gooch, Mussolini and His Generals: The Armed Forces and Fascist
Foreign Policy, 1922–1940, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2007,
pp. 249–51.
50 Martin Thomas, “France and the Ethiopian Crisis, 1935–1936: Security
Dilemmas and Adjustable Interests,” in G. Bruce Strang, ed., Collision of
Empires: Italy’s Invasion of Ethiopia and Its International Impact, London:
Ashgate, 2013, pp. 111–14.
51 Steven Morewood, “‘This Silly African Business’: the Military Dimension
of Britain’s Response to the Abyssinia Crisis,” in G. Bruce Strang, ed.,
Collision of Empires: Italy’s Invasion of Ethiopia and Its International
Impact, London: Ashgate, 2013, pp. 73–108; Michael L. Roi, “‘A Completely
Immoral and Cowardly Attitude’: The British Foreign Office, American
Neutrality and the Hoare-Laval Plan,” Canadian Journal of History, vol. 29,
no. 2 (1994), pp. 333–51.
52 Lamont to Fummi, 6 June 1935, Lamont to J.P. Morgan & Co., 11 July
1935, Fummi to Lamont, 1 August 1935, BL, TWL, Series IV D, Box 191,
Page 464
Page 464
Folder 4.
53 Leffingwell to Lamont, BL, TWL, Series IV D, Box 191, Folder 4.
54 Lamont to Johnson, 11 May 1934, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 104, Folder 13,
indicating that a copy of the memorandum was sent to Lippmann; Lamont to
Noyes, 18 May 1934, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 120, Folder 23.
55 The exchange may be followed in Morgan & Cie. to J.P. Morgan & Co.
9–13 July 1934, TML, MBEP, Box 17, Cables sent, 1 May to 31 July 1934.
56 John E. Wiltz, In Search of Peace: The Senate Munitions Inquiry, 1934–36,
Baton Rouge, LA: Louisiana State University Press, 1963, p. 176.
57 Wayne S. Cole, Roosevelt and the Isolationists, 1932–1945, Lincoln, NE:
University of Nebraska Press, 1983, is the classic account.
58 Dallek, Franklin D. Roosevelt and American Foreign Policy, pp. 101–8,
and Wiltz, In Search of Peace, pp. 174–86, have accounts.
59 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Fummi, 23 August 1935, TML, MBEP, Box 18,
Cables received, 1 June to 31 October 1935.
60 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Fummi, 6 September 1935, TML, MBEP, Box 18,
Cables received, 1 June to 31 October 1935.
61 Fummi to Morgan & Cie., 4 September 1935, Carter to Lamont, 4
September 1935, Fummi to Lamont, 11 September 1935, TML, MBEP, Box
25, Giovanni Fummi, File 3.
62 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan & Cie., 11 October 1935, TML, MBEP, Box
18, Cables rec’d, 1 June to 31 October 1935. New York asked Paris to relay
this cable to Fummi, stating that they were “inexpressibly shocked” by the
newspaper reports on atrocities in Ethiopia.
Page 465
Page 465
63 DB Morgan Grenfell Papers, Box 50596681, J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc.,
Condensed Statement of Condition, 1 October 1935 and 31 December 1935.
64 Thomas S. Lamont to Lamont, 8 December 1936, Lamont to Vivian Harris
Smith, 18 December 1936, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 112, Folder 8.
65 Lamont to Vivian Harris Smith, 18 December 1936, BL, TWL, Series II,
Box 112, Folder 8.
66 Migone, The United States and Fascist Italy, p. 375.
67 W.A. Mitchell to Fummi, 25 March 1937, BL, TWL, Series VIII, Box 247,
Folder 20.
68 Lamont to T.H. Beck, 31 March 1937, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 83, Folder
25.
69 Lamont to Thomas S. Lamont and J.P. Morgan & Co. partners, 27 April
1937, BL, TWL, Series IV B, Box 191. The reference to Spain was to the
Battle of Guadalajara, fought in March 1937, in which Italian forces had been
routed by troops loyal to the Madrid government, including a contingent of
Italian exiles from Fascism.
70 Lamont diary, 19 April 1937, BL, TWL, Series IV B, Box 173, Folder 9;
Pollard, Money and the Rise of the Modern Papacy, p. 180.
71 Irwin F. Gellman, Secret Affairs: Franklin Roosevelt, Cordell Hull and
Sumner Welles, Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1995, pp.
102–3.
72 For criticism of Roosevelt’s policy, see G. Bruce Strang, “‘A Sad
Commentary on World Ethics’: Italy and the United States during the
Ethiopian Crisis,” in G. Bruce Strang, ed., Collision of Empires: Italy’s
Page 466
Page 466
Invasion of Ethiopia and Its International Impact, London: Ashgate, 2013, pp.
135–63, esp. pp. 161–63.
73 Raymond Gram Swing, “The Morgan Nerve Begins to Jump,” The Nation,
vol. 140, no. 3643, 1 May 1935, p. 504. Swing had joined The Nation after a
long career as a European-based correspondent for various American
newspapers. Swing, Good Evening, pp. 171–72.
74 Lamont to Leffingwell, 9 July 1935, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 83, Folder
15.
75 Brown to Alger Hiss, 3 May 1935, NARA, RG 46, 74th Congress, Special
Committee Investigating the Munitions Industry, Box 323, Directive
#240/240-#38.
76 Leffingwell to Glass, 3 May 1935, Glass to Leffingwell, 4 May 1935, UVA,
Glass MS, Series I, Box 38, Treasury of the United States Carter Glass and
Russell C. Leffingwell.
77 Lamont to Wasson, 28 May 1935, BL, TWL, Series V, Box 214, Folder 14,
with a memorandum by Lamont on Nye’s speech. Press accounts in “Anti-
War Rally Hears Plea to Forbid Profits,” New York Herald Tribune, 28 May
1935, p. 4; “Nye and Clark Urge Peace Laws Here,” New York Times, 28 May
1935, p. 27. Representative Maury Maverick, Democrat of Texas, was also on
the stage.
78 Wasson to Leffingwell, 20 June 1935, BL, TWL, Series V, Box 215, Folder
4.
79 Lamont to Lippmann, 9 August 1935, Lippmann to Lamont, 12 August
1935, YUL, Walter Lippmann papers, III, Box 83, 1278.
Page 467
Page 467
80 Krock to Sulzberger, 26 September 1935, Princeton, Mudd Library, Arthur
Krock papers, Box 56, Folder Arthur Hays Sulzberger 1927–1933;
1935–1949.
81 Leffingwell to Noyes, 29 October 1935, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 6, Folder
131.
82 The Southwest Review piece is unusual for its length – more than five
pages. The Southwest Review, vol. 20, no. 4 (July 1935), pp. 1–6.
83 Lamont to Shotwell, 24 October 1935, 26 November 1935, 30 November
1935, Shotwell to Lamont, 25 October 1935, BL, TWL, Series V, Box 216,
Folder 26. On Seymour and the commissioned memorandum, see BL, TWL,
Series V, Box 215, Folder 1. Lamont tried to get Joseph Knapp of Crowell to
publish the Seymour memoranda.
84 Lamont to Dulles, 11 October 1935, BL, TWL, Series V, Box 216, Folder
26.
85 A pencilled memo from Leffingwell to Lamont, undated, in BL, TWL,
Series V, Box 216, Folder 27 makes it clear what the Morgan interest in
cultivating Shotwell was: “But fighting Nye by an appeal for our entry into
the League of Nations! Well really! Where has Shotwell been all these years?”
86 Chenery to Lamont, 17 October 1935, Lamont to Chenery, 18 November
1935, Chenery to Lamont, 21 November 1935, BL, TWL, Series V, Box 215,
Folder 17. On the decision to forego publication, Lamont to Whitney and
Stanley, 23 December 1935, BL, TWL, Series V, Box 215, Folder 23.
87 Wiltz, In Search of Peace, pp. 222–25.
88 Matthew Ware Coulter, The Senate Munitions Inquiry of the 1930s,
Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1997, remarked that Clark “dominated the
Page 468
Page 468
hearing room in 1936,”, p. 114.
89 Jack Morgan, 7 January 1936, Nye Committee hearings, Part 25, pp.
7483–85.
90 10 January 1936, Nye Committee hearings, Part 26, p. 7893.
91 Modern scholarship agrees that the Morgan bank did not push the United
States into war. Burk, Britain, America, and the Sinews of War, is definitive.
92 Nye, 15 January 1936, Nye Committee hearings, Part 28, p. 8512; Pope, 16
January 1936, Nye Committee hearings, Part 28, pp. 8534–35.
93 The phrase was Hiram Johnson’s. Johnson to Hiram Johnson Jr., 18 January
1936, in Burk, The Diary Letters of Hiram Johnson, vol. 6.
94 Wiltz, In Search of Peace, pp. 202–8; Coulter, The Senate Munitions
Inquiry, pp. 115–19.
95 Lamont to North Duane, 8 February 1936, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 92,
Folder 12.
96 Staff, The Christian Science Monitor, 14 January 1936, p. 2; Time, vol. 27,
no. 3, 20 January 1936, pp. 12–16.
97 “An Inquiry Ends Well,” New York Times, 9 February 1936, E8.
98 Millis penned two articles that appeared in The Nation, the first on 22
January 1936, “The Last War and the Next: Morgan, Money, and War,” and
the second on 29 January 1936, “The Last War and the Next: What Does
Neutrality Mean?”
99 The Hoare–Laval Plan, named after Sir Samuel Hoare, the British foreign
secretary and Pierre Laval, the French foreign minister, was concocted in
Page 469
Page 469
December 1935 as a face-saving means of ending the Ethiopian war. It
promised to buy Mussolini off by awarding Italy roughly two-thirds of pre-
war Ethiopia in return for a cessation of the conflict. Leaked to the Parisian
press a week after it was agreed, its details provoked howls of protest, leading
to the resignation of Hoare, Laval’s subsequent departure from office, and a
reaffirmation of public opinion in favour of the League of Nations, while
affronting Mussolini.
100 4 December 1975, TML, CP, Box 8, Henry S. Morgan (interviews).
101 Thomas S. Lamont to Davison, 15 February 1932, TML, CP, Box 19,
Morgan & Co. – Misc. Notes 1930s.
102 Egan to Morrow, 21 December 1929, AC, DWM I, Box 19, Folder 62.
Egan was also a member of the China Society of America from 1920 to 1936
and a board member from 1926.
103 Waldo H. Heinrichs Jr. American Ambassador: Joseph C. Grew and the
Development of the United States Diplomatic Tradition, New York: Oxford
University Press, 1966, p.143; Sidney Pash, The Currents of War: A New
History of American-Japanese Relations, 1899–1941, Lexington, KY:
University Press of Kentucky, 2014, views Hornbeck as consistently anti-
Japanese in the 1930s.
104 Thomas W. Lamont, “The Two Japans,” The Atlantic Monthly, vol. 112,
no. 2900, 2 February 1921, pp. 172–73.
105 Lamont to Lippmann, 1 October 1931, YUL, Lippmann MS, Box 83,
Folder 1275; Leffingwell to Lippmann, 23 October 1931, YUL, RCL, Series
1, Box 5, Folder 108.
106 Chernow, The House of Morgan, pp. 339–40.
Page 470
Page 470
107 Lamont, The Ambassador, pp. 309–13; Chernow, The House of Morgan,
pp. 337–45.
108 Lamont to Dean Jay, 14 November 1931, KC, NDJ.
109 Memorandum of a Conversation by the Under Secretary of State with Mr.
Thomas W. Lamont, 28 January 1932, FRUS, 1932, vol. 3, pp. 92–93;
Heinrichs, American Ambassador, p. 412 n19, makes the suggestion that
Hoover passed on the warning.
110 Lamont to Mr. S. Sonoda, 10 March 1932, Takahashi to Lamont, 17 March
1932, Lamont to Stimson, 18 March 1932, Stimson to Lamont, 22 March
1932, Lamont to Takahashi, 30 March 1932, BL, TWL, Series V, Box 209,
Folder 23; “Japanese Matters,” “Possible Japanese Boycott,” Memoranda,
Lamont to Partners, 15 April 1932, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 110, Folder 1.
111 Lamont to Davis, 18 April 1932, LC, Norman H. Davis papers, Box 33,
Folder Thomas W. Lamont 1928–1942; Davis to Lamont, 22 April 1932, BL,
TWL, Series V, Box 209, Folder 23.
112 Egan to Lamont, 12 May 1932, TML, Martin Egan papers, Box 39, Folder
Japan 3/1930–1937.
113 Lamont to Stimson, 2 October 1932, BL, TWL, Series V, Box 209, Folder
24.
114 Egan to de Sanchez, 23 January 1933, TML, Martin Egan papers, Box 64,
Sanchez, J.A.M.
115 Heinrichs, American Ambassador, p. 169, on Matsudaira’s assurances; pp.
193–204 on the persistence of belief in the liberals. Egan had mentioned
Count Kabayama in his May 1932 memorandum to Lamont.
Page 471
Page 471
116 Armstrong note, 13 November 1935, Princeton, Mudd Library, HFA, IV,
Box 99/1935.
117 Leffingwell to Lamont, 30 November 1935, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4,
Folder 96; Leffingwell to Lamont, 19 May 1944, BL, TWL, Series II, Box
104, Folder 2.
118 Leffingwell to Lamont, 19 October 1937, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4,
Folder 97.
119 Dorothy Borg, The United States and the Far Eastern Crisis of 1933–1938,
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1964, pp. 63–87.
120 Lamont to Johnson, 20 October 1933, BL, TWL, Series IV D, Box 184,
Folder 8.
121 Borg, The United States and the Far Eastern Crisis, pp. 86–88.
122 Wasson and Vernon Munroe, 1 June 1937, BL, TWL, Series IV D, Box
188, Folder 25. Munroe was Lamont’s secretary.
123 Lamont to New York partners, 15 April 1935, BL, TWL, Series IV D, Box
184, Folder 11.
124 Lamont to Fukai, 13 September 1935, BL, TWL, Series IV D, Box 187,
Folder 32.
125 Johnson to Lamont, 7 July 1936, BL, TWL, Series IV D, Box 184, Folder
13.
126 See, for example, Lamont to K. Wakasugi, 17 September 1937, BL, TWL,
Series IV D, Box 188, Folder 4. Wakasugi was the Consul-General in New
York and Lamont to Chokyuro Kadono, 24 September 1937, BL, TWL, Series
Page 472
Page 472
IV D, Box 188, Folder 4. Kadono was the president of the Chamber of
Commerce and Industry of Tokyo and president of the Japanese-American
Trade Council, chairman of Okura & Co., and executive director of the Japan
Economic Federation. He had headed a Japanese economic mission to the
United States in May and June 1937, meeting Lamont. Contrast these with
Junius S. Morgan to Dr. E.J.M. Dickson, 8 October 1937, TML, JPM, Box 43,
Folder 1. Dirksen had written asking the Morgan bank to condemn Japanese
actions, a request that sent the partners into a lather, leading them to
investigate Dirksen before replying with a carefully worded statement.
127 Lamont to Johnson, 26 February 1938, Johnson to Lamont, 21 April 1938,
BL, TWL, Series IV D, Box 184, Folder 14; Lamont to Johnson, 1 July 1938,
BL, TWL, Series IV D, Box 184, Folder 15.
128 Dallek, Franklin D. Roosevelt and American Foreign Policy, p. 76.
Page 473
Page 473
8
The Coming of War and the End
of the Partnership, 1937–1940
◈
On 1 April 1940, when the doors at 23 Wall Street opened, visitors entered a new
bank. What had been the essence of J.P. Morgan & Co. was gone – private
merchant banking, as the Morgan partners had practised it since the nineteenth
century, had ended. The partnership had been replaced by J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc.
The officers of the new corporation were those of the old partnership – Jack
Morgan was chairman of the board, Lamont was vice-chairman of the board and
chair of the executive committee, Leffingwell was vice-chairman of the
executive committee, and Whitney was the president. The other former partners
were now vice-presidents.1 The road to incorporation began with the creation of
Morgan Stanley in 1935 when the Morgan partners had been confident that
Glass–Steagall would either be scrapped or be watered down, allowing for the
reintegration of investment banking at the Corner. Roosevelt’s triumph in
November 1936 removed the prospect of revision; what unfolded between 1937
and 1940 was, despite “the end of reform,” the elimination of other
possibilities.2 The vicious recession of 1937–38 frightened both the White House
and Congress, heightening the acrimony bred by Roosevelt’s ill-fated attempt to
Page 474
Page 474
restructure the Supreme Court, but it did not produce a groundswell to dismantle
the New Deal economic changes in toto. American capitalism had surmounted
crisis through the New Deal, not in spite of it, a verdict that most Americans
accepted and that a chastened president and Congress recognized. Prosperity,
however, remained elusive, with the struggles of the American economy stoking
anxieties about the long-term fate of capitalism.
Seven months earlier, on 1 September 1939, Germany had invaded Poland,
beginning World War II in Europe. The movement to war had been powered by
Hitler’s determination to have one. From the Hossbach Conference in November
1937 to Anschluss in March 1938, to Munich that September, the occupation of
Czechoslovakia in March 1939, and the Nazi-Soviet Non-Aggression Pact of
August 1939, conquest was the handmaid of the Nazi drive to create a purified
racial community. Within days, Britain, France, and their empires were at war
with the Nazi regime. Polish defeat was followed by tense months. The Soviets
fought, and won, the Winter War with Finland in the fall and winter of 1939–40
while issuing ritualistic expressions of their faithfulness to the alliance with
Berlin. Momentarily London and Paris contemplated coming to the aid of the
Finns while the war with Germany was at a low ebb. They did not but nor did
Germany attack in the West. The Phony War was due to repeated postponements
of Hitler’s invasion plans, delays occasioned principally by foul weather and the
palpitations of his generals. The United States, neutral, watched while
speculation about Roosevelt’s candidacy for the November 1940 presidential
election intensified.3 There was little certainty about what might ensue after
September 1939, save that war, on the heels of an enervating depression,
represented another challenge for capitalism.
These twin developments – the end of the partnership and the coming of
war – dominated the Morgan years from 1937 to 1940. The question of how a
Page 475
Page 475
private bank shorn of its investment business could flourish preoccupied the
partners. Charles Steele’s death in August 1939 forced a decision. Steele, though
long inactive, had the largest capital stake in the partnership. Before Steele’s
death the partners had been contemplating the way forward. Their ruminations
were indivisible from the resuscitation of the American economy. While much of
the animating energy of the New Deal dissipated after 1936, this did not mean an
end to discussion. How to propel a sluggish economy out of the doldrums
remained a central question in American life. The Morgan partners were
engaged in these conversations, sometimes as participants, sometimes as objects
of suspicion, sometimes as imagined helpmates, sometimes in association with
scandal. This was not a detached exercise for J.P Morgan & Co. After 1936 J.P.
Morgan & Co. struggled as a bank, troubles that were exacerbated by the
downturn of 1937–38. Finding a way to cope with their business difficulties and
the evolution of American capitalism was what mattered. Incorporation was the
Morgan answer.
Survival amid a damaged American economy was complicated by the
coming of war. The nightmare of a new war drew closer as the 1930s waned. As
it did, the debate over American policy became more pressing. J.P. Morgan &
Co. was bound to this discussion, though not, as this chapter suggests, quite in
the manner that contemporaries thought. Neville Chamberlain replaced Jack
Morgan’s friend, Stanley Baldwin, as prime minister in May 1937. Chamberlain
was determined to pursue his appeasement policy, independent of American
meddling.4 French policy was more nuanced, but Paris proceeded in tandem with
London on appeasement because it suited French interests. Shibboleths of the
“English governess” notwithstanding, the weaknesses of French rearmament
meant seeking help from the United States. Through Morgan & Cie., J.P. Morgan
& Co. was engaged with French procurement efforts. Conditioning Morgan
Page 476
Page 476
thinking on aiding France and Britain was not just their embrace of appeasement
but the imperative of avoiding American entry into a new European conflict.
However, many assumed that the Morgan partners sought to cajole the United
States into war. This was not so. The Morgan role in international relations had
long since foregone policymaking; at most the partners facilitated the actions of
others. In the main they were observers. Roosevelt’s foreign policy, with its
pursuit of peace, distant from the dictatorships, anti-Soviet, but not violently so,
aiming to keep the United States out of war, suited J.P. Morgan & Co. The
Morgan partners did not want an American war even after war came in Europe,
contrary to the suspicions that continued to be articulated that, like 1917, J.P.
Morgan & Co. was conspiring at American belligerency. If, despite its intimate
connections in London and Paris, the Morgan firm preferred neutrality, this
suggests that the ranks of those who wished for belligerency in the United States
were thin indeed.
*****
The persistence of the Depression in the second half of the 1930s flummoxed the
Roosevelt administration. Mass unemployment oppressed, heightening divisions
among advisors to the White House about the appropriate response. Some in the
New Deal wished for what would be called Keynesian measures, while others
favoured a more conservative course. If the former were grouped loosely around
figures such as Currie or Eccles, the latter found their stalwart in Morgenthau Jr.
Roosevelt, as was his proclivity, yawed.5 Monetary policy was muddled. The
shift of power accompanying the Banking Act of 1935 to Washington had been
undertaken to diminish the perceived dominance of Wall Street, and specifically
Morgan influence, on the Federal Reserve. It was assumed that, freed of the
shackles of Wall Street, monetary policy would be more supportive of American
interests rather than those of the Corner. What transpired was unexpected. As
Page 477
Page 477
fears that inflation was stirring revived, J.P. Morgan & Co. was distinguished in
its insistence that the financial community, the Federal Reserve, and the Treasury
were wrong. Inflation was not the threat – it was deflation that was the enemy to
renewed American prosperity.
At issue was a dispute over the question of bank reserves, which had
ballooned as gold flowed in from abroad. Memoranda written by Federal
Reserve staff had been non-committal on the question of whether inflation would
follow, but as reserves increased – by October 1935 banks were believed to hold
nearly $3 billion more reserves than needed – worry mounted that such excess,
left untended, would fuel inflation. Discussion on whether to curb reserves by
requiring banks to boost their reserve requirements ensued among the Treasury,
the Federal Reserve, and the banking community. Parker Gilbert was drawn into
this debate by Morgenthau. Late in October 1935 Parker Gilbert, Jacob Viner of
the University of Chicago, and Walter Stewart of Case, Pomeroy & Co. were
asked by Morgenthau whether anything should be done about excess reserves.
All three thought not, advising that it was premature to take any step that might
hobble lending.6 Parker Gilbert discussed the issue with Leffingwell. As was his
wont, Leffingwell was unequivocal. Worry about a speculative boom was
“wicked,” given the “5 or 10 millions unemployed.” Excess reserves,
Leffingwell pointed out, were not distributed evenly in banks across the country.
He feared that increasing reserve requirements would force large numbers of
banks outside the money-centres to borrow from either correspondent banks or
the Federal Reserve, driving up the cost of money. He raged, “[i]n all the history
of central banking theory I have never heard of any suggestion so idiotic or so
nearly criminal.” The dangers for the Roosevelt administration, Leffingwell
thought, were acute, amounting to “political and social suicide” should deflation
revive. Leffingwell was sure as to where blame lay – with Benjamin Anderson
Page 478
Page 478
of Chase National, whom he described witheringly as a “deflationist in season
and out of season.”7
Leffingwell was correct. Anderson, and more importantly his boss
Winthrop Aldrich at Chase, were leading exponents of what emerged as a
majoritarian view in banking circles. Reserves were too high. This was the
message of Aldrich’s speech to the Houston Chamber of Commerce on 11
December 1935. Telling his audience that the $3 billion in excess reserves was
an unchecked threat that must be reduced, Aldrich attacked Eccles, arguing that
his public utterances that there was little risk in reserves held by banks was not a
view shared by the banking community, which, Aldrich asserted, was alive to the
dangers of swollen reserves.8 The Morgan partners, worried about the publicity
attendant on Aldrich’s speech – it had been carried on page one of the Wall
Street Journal – decided on an atypical step. The day that the newspaper reports
of Aldrich’s speech appeared, Parker Gilbert phoned Morgenthau. He told the
secretary that he intended to write a letter on excess reserves because the
discussion in the media was “one sided.” Morgenthau encouraged Parker Gilbert
to proceed.9 The letter, printed in the New York Times, duly appeared on 18
December 1935. It attracted attention immediately, with the Wall Street Journal
and the Times running articles on the controversy the following day. Parker
Gilbert argued that, while excess reserves now stood at 3.3 billion, there was no
indication that these reserves were having an effect on credit expansion. He
suggested that credit expansion was non-existent or negligible, the recovery was
newborn, and raising the reserve requirement might strangle it. Much of the
growth in reserves, he observed, was due to gold imports which he estimated at
$1.1 billion in 1934 and $1.5 billion in 1935. Foreign balances in the United
States had also increased through direct investment. There was, in Parker
Gilbert’s view, no need to freeze this money through raising reserve
Page 479
Page 479
requirements, for it would shrink naturally as Europeans repatriated their assets,
observing that “the present high figure is in a very real sense a protection against
unnecessary deflation if, for example, there should be a large outflow of gold.”
Changing reserve requirements was a bad means of exerting credit control, he
opined. Better tools existed to cope with the money supply, namely Federal
Reserve open-market operations if liquidity needed sopping up. The core of the
matter was simple – if the cheap money policy was abandoned, recovery might
suffer.
Eccles and the Federal Reserve Board agreed, leaving excess reserve
requirements alone. James McMullen of the Oakland Tribune expressed the
amazement that Eccles and Parker Gilbert were of like mind: “After all, you can
hardly expect a Morgan partner of being in cahoots with Stalin.”10 Commonality
proved fleeting. It was Eccles who diverged. For reasons that remain contested,
Eccles agreed to a progressive tightening of the excess reserve requirements,
boosting them in two steps, each of 50 per cent, in August and December 1936.
In his memoirs, Eccles betrayed his sensitivity that in so doing the Federal
Reserve had hatched the recession of 1937–38. Despite describing Parker Gilbert
as “one of the most enlightened bankers in America” and the Morgan partners as
among those “most sympathetic to Administration policy,” Eccles wrote that
Parker Gilbert had tendered “outdated” advice. Eccles insisted that he had been
alive to the danger of altering the excess reserve requirement, documenting a
meeting with Roosevelt at the White House in July 1936 in which he warned
about ratcheting up requirements. Eccles argued that the 1937–38 recession was
due to overly rapid expansion of business inventories coupled with reduced
consumer demand. Contraction in private credit followed the recession rather
than inducing it.11
Page 480
Page 480
Complementary to tightening excess reserve requirements was another step
taken by the Federal Reserve – gold sterilization. Sterilization involved
sequestering gold in the Federal Reserve, thus divorcing growing gold holdings
from the money supply. Begun in December 1936, as gold flowed to the United
States from Europe, fears that unrestrained inflows would, among other
concerns, drive inflation were aired. Morgenthau championed sterilization,
pushing through adoption of this course against the initial reluctance of Eccles.
Morgenthau persuaded Roosevelt that sterilization was appropriate. Leffingwell
and Parker Gilbert, however, believed that gold sterilization was unwise. Dining
at Morgenthau’s house in May 1937, Parker Gilbert argued that the means to
check the inflow of gold was through boosting prices in the United States, which
could be better accomplished by letting gold into the Federal Reserve System.12
Sterilization was not discontinued until early in 1938. Parker Gilbert and
Leffingwell remained convinced that inflation was not a danger, that liquidity
was necessary, and that the true threat was a return to deflation. There was, in
their judgement, no need to worry about either excess reserves or sterilizing
gold. Retrospectively this insistence was correct even if allowances are made for
the uncertainty surrounding the precise influence of monetary policy on the
coming of recession in 1937–38.
The broader argument over whether the New Deal had not gone far enough,
or had gone too far, in restructuring American capitalism rumbled. Within a
business community where the majority bemoaned the intrusion of the state as
emblematic of the New Deal’s Faustian bargain with dirigiste economic
schemes, resistance to what was construed as the burden of regulation was
fierce. Critics, searching, pointed to fiscal policy as another culprit. Reducing
taxation, reining in expenditures, and restoring a balanced budget were
championed as palliatives to restore economic health.13 Unlike their stance on
monetary policy, the Morgan partners were orthodox when it came to fiscal
Page 481
Page 481
policy. During the Nye Committee hearings Jack Morgan had ventured that
taxation had reached its maximum practical limit and what was needed was a
broadening of the tax rolls, a sally that was overlooked in the rush to publicize
his ill-conceived comments on the destruction of the American leisure class.
That spring, Leffingwell, assailing the undistributed profits tax, grouched that,
having ruined the railroads and the banks, government was on the road to
bankrupting the utilities and now proposed to despoil the industrial sector:
“Then the Government will own everything at the end of the next depression.”
As the presidential campaign intensified, Leffingwell appealed to Roosevelt to
reduce taxes, arguing that misguided tax policies “may kill the goose that has
been laying the golden eggs the Treasury gathers.”14 Roosevelt’s victory at the
polls did not change the Morgan view that New Deal fiscal policy needed
modification.
This was apparent late in 1937, by which time contraction was biting and
the president fearful. His counsellors were split. On 10 November 1937, the day
when Roosevelt approved a memorandum calling for greater government
spending to combat the recession, the Academy of Political Science met at the
Hotel Astor in New York.15 The featured speakers were Morgenthau, Senator
Harry Byrd of Virginia, and Parker Gilbert. An audience of more than 1,000
heard a debate on taxation, the budget, and the deficit. Byrd and Parker Gilbert
had the inestimable advantage of receptive listeners. Roosevelt had vetted
Morgenthau’s speech scrupulously. When Morgenthau suggested that the
government was transitioning from an unbalanced budget to a balanced budget, a
prescription at odds with larger-scale government expenditures, Parker Gilbert
took care to pay tribute to Treasury leadership before declaring that the United
States likely had “the worst tax system of any civilized country,” a remark that
drew sustained applause. He was aware that in the struggle within the
Page 482
Page 482
administration Morgenthau stood closest to Morgan views, but closeness was
one thing, concurrence another. Parker Gilbert advised that the way to reduce the
deficit was by cutting expenditure and refraining from new taxation. Tax
revision was needed, for the country was “already too heavily taxed.” The
current system was “unscientific … hypocritical, un-democratic, and un-
American.” He called for the repeal of the undistributed profits tax and the
removal of income tax on those with low incomes. Business was plodding; the
way forward was to embrace free enterprise which Parker Gilbert couched in
terms of the “old-time religion,” “working and saving and living within our
income.”16 Two days later Whitney, in conversation with Harrison, emphasized
the heavy hand of regulation as well as the perception in the business community
that the Roosevelt administration was hostile to profit-making as factors
crimping the economy. Leffingwell wrote Morgenthau warning that, if a change
of course was not in the offing, a return to full-blown depression was
conceivable. Leffingwell urged that Morgenthau recommend to Roosevelt a
reduction in taxation and the removal of regulation to “take the brakes off the
hope of profit,” which alone could bring the economy back from the brink.17
While this counsel was ignored, the partners remained in Morgenthau’s
confidence despite the Hotel Astor meeting, with the secretary calling on
Leffingwell and Harold Stanley in December 1937 for thoughts on the $450
million in obligations the government had coming due on 15 December.18
The blend of the conformist and the idiosyncratic represented by the
Morgan stance on fiscal and monetary policy made it possible to cast the Morgan
partners as stalwarts of unreconstructed capitalism and as flexible proponents of
government action. Roosevelt, presiding over a divided administration, and
realizing that this was so, zig-zagged in 1937–38 between assailing the Corner
and enlisting its aid.
Page 483
Page 483
The hearings helmed by Senator Burton Wheeler of Montana in 1937
demonstrated this fluidity. Wheeler, chairing a sub-committee of the Senate
Committee on Interstate Commerce, had received authorization for an
investigation into interstate railroads, holding companies, their affiliates, and the
financing of those concerns. Prompted in large degree by the Van Sweringen
brothers, the Alleghany Corporation, and the mismanagement of the Missouri
Pacific Railroad, the investigation looked to be another headline-grabbing affair.
The railroads, confronted with the Depression and competition from the trucking
industry, were struggling. With Max Lowenthal, a protégé of Frankfurter’s, as
committee counsel and the redoubtable Charles Beard advising the Missouri
Pacific bondholders, the Corner might be embarrassed. Wheeler signalled his
approach early in 1936. The clerk of the House of Representatives, South
Trimble, released a letter to the United States Chamber of Commerce and the
American Banking Association that Wheeler read on the floor of the Senate.
Trimble’s letter blamed a familiar bogeyman, “international bankers …
operating in this country through emissaries and their satellites,” for the
Depression.19 If the politics were transparent, tarring of this sort, associating J.P.
Morgan & Co. in a noxiously anti-Semitic manner, was ironic given deep-seated
Morgan anti-Semitism. Junius Morgan told his father that the firm expected that
the Wheeler hearings would be another production of “investigating Jews.”20 A
more thoughtful appraisal was furnished by Anderson who informed Lamont in
the summer of 1936 that, to “our surprise,” the Wheeler investigators had opted
to subpoena O.P. Van Sweringen and four of his lieutenants. Obstruction was the
reason; Lowenthal, in Anderson’s judgement the driving force on the committee,
believed that he was not receiving cooperation from O.P. Van Sweringen.21 The
Morgan partners, by now well versed in congressional investigations, decided
that the wisest approach was adopting a low-profile in the hopes of having the
Page 484
Page 484
investigation focus on the Van Sweringen brothers. The partners were
determined to keep Jack Morgan and Lamont off the stand.22
The death of O.P. Van Sweringen on 22 November 1936 was fortuitous for
the Corner. M.P. Van Sweringen had died in December 1935. While it might be
thought that the absence of the Van Sweringens would permit the investigators to
concentrate on the Morgan partners, in practice this was not so. The hearings did
not open until December 1936. When they did, the first topics of inquiry were
Alleghany Corporation, the MidAmerica Corporation, and the role of Guaranty
Trust. Anderson and Whitney testified, but not until 17–18 December, the week
before Christmas, by which time two weeks of hearings had passed. Anderson
was not Jack Morgan nor was he Lamont. What he had to say was of less interest
to reporters. Anderson’s testimony was not front-page news. It was buried in the
Wall Street Journal on page six, in a slight column on the regular page devoted
to Bonds and Investment Comment.23 The front page of the Journal that day
featured, among other articles, a piece on bankers preparing for the rise in excess
reserve requirements. This was not the reception for which Wheeler had hoped.
Though the committee held hearings in January 1937, it was not until early
March 1937 that the Morgan partners returned. On 3–5 March Lamont testified,
as did Whitney.24 Lamont’s presence generated more interest, his testimony
appearing on the front page of the Wall Street Journal on 4 March; but now the
Supreme Court packing affair dominated politics and the headlines. Roosevelt’s
bill to reform the Court had been introduced on 5 February 1937, whipping up a
storm, leading the president on 9 March 1937 to devote a fireside chat to explain
and to persuade his fellow citizens. Against this backdrop, the intricacies of
railroad financing years earlier, in what seemed another era, palled. While
Lamont, Whitney, and Harold Stanley jousted with Wheeler and Lowenthal
about Alleghany, about the Missouri Pacific, there was little drive behind the
Page 485
Page 485
questioning. Wheeler had shed his loyalty to the White House, to become the
administration’s principal critic in the Senate about the Supreme Court affair.
That was his fixation. Lamont, writing to North Duane, summed up: “It wasn’t
as bad as I feared it would be. In fact, we got off pretty lightly. Senator Wheeler
was very much occupied all about the Supreme Court, and while some of the
usual bulldozing tactics were employed, they didn’t get very far.”25 The White
House, which ordinarily would have seized on the Wheeler hearings to bludgeon
J.P. Morgan & Co., did not do so.26
While the Roosevelt administration might look askance at Wheeler, the
eruption in June 1937 of a high-profile contretemps flagged the dangers of any
tie to the Corner. Jack Morgan, returning from Europe, gave an interview to
reporters that suggested he condoned tax evasion. His comments were out of
step with the efforts that the Roosevelt administration was making to crack down
on wealthy scofflaws. Dovetailing with an investigation launched by the Internal
Revenue Service, and the subsequent disclosure by Guy T. Helvering, the
Internal Revenue Commissioner, that identified Lamont and his wife Florence
among others as tax evaders, these incidents were sufficient to prod the Morgan
partners into damage control efforts, which included a clarification by Jack
Morgan of his remarks.27 Leffingwell wrote Morgenthau in apologetic terms:
I am sorry for Mr. Morgan’s remarks about taxes to the ship news reporters
in the fog down by the bay yesterday. They do not reflect the views of the
active partners, and I cannot believe that they are Mr. Morgan’s considered
views. Rather they seemed to be just the hasty and irritable expressions of a
sick man.28
Writing to Lippmann, Leffingwell, while acknowledging that Jack Morgan’s
comments were “foolish,” defended the comments as understandable, because
Page 486
Page 486
“the income tax law and the income tax amendment did not authorize the
government to tax deficits, and we are getting fed up with being scolded for not
paying income taxes on our real deficits in the deficit years.”29 Leffingwell
knew that Lippmann was sceptical about the White House’s championing of the
tax crackdown. Lippmann’s column on 5 June, “Government by Indignation,”
had assailed the tax evader drive: “Is it surprising that throughout the country
there exists already a deep suspicion that the objective is not law enforcement
and revenue but political propaganda designed to create popular prejudice and
strengthen the Administration’s weakened political position?”30 Writing in the
Washington Post, Franklyn Waltman dismissed the upcoming congressional
investigation into tax dodging as “witch-hunting” for the purpose of
“Committee glorification.” Waltman wondered whether there would be “another
Roman circus on Capitol Hill, with a sweating, cowering economic royalist in
the witness chair,” a spectacle which Waltman thought that the administration
wanted. Explicitly he contrasted Jack Morgan with Andrew Mellon, whose
misdeeds on taxation were greater but less remarked on because Mellon had not
appeared before a congressional committee.31
While “economic royalists” were hardly the American businessman on
Main Street, the onset of the recession in 1937–38 deepened the cleavages
within the Roosevelt administration and between the administration and
business. Suspicions that the contraction had been engineered by a business
world bent on suborning the White House circulated. The American ambassador
at the Court of St. James, Robert Bingham, gave an interview in which he stated
that Wall Street bankers were responsible for the slump, forcing Jack Morgan to
seek a correction in a personal interview.32 Such notions were lampooned by
Lamont. Writing Dawes, Lamont noted that within the administration he
detected receptivity to the phantasm of a plot by business to drive the stock
Page 487
Page 487
market down at the expense of Roosevelt. “Nothing,” Lamont told Dawes,
“more fantastic could ever be imagined.”33 Nevertheless, there was no
gainsaying that there was a recrudescence of literature depicting capitalism,
particularly big business, in bleak terms. Early in 1936 Anna Rochester
published Rulers of Empire: A Study of Finance Capital. Explicitly Marxist,
following the model of Lenin’s Imperialism, Rochester devoted considerable
space to J.P. Morgan & Co. Several years before Rochester had penned a three-
part series entitled “The Morgan Empire” in The Daily Worker, the house organ
of the Communist Party of the United States of America (CPUSA). While
Rochester embraced the Depression as evidence of the “crisis of capitalism”
which might result in war – the “chronic disease of capitalism” – her analysis
was not likely to persuade many beyond the ranks of the CPUSA and certainly
not in the White House, for Rochester depicted Roosevelt as the stooge of late-
stage capitalism.34 Less proletarian were Herbert Agar and Allen Tate, whose
edited collection of essays, Who Owns America? A New Declaration of
Independence (1936), attacked “monopoly capitalism” as “evil and self-
destructive,” inimical to “true democracy.”35 Big business, of which J.P. Morgan
& Co. was a part, was hand in glove with “monopoly capitalism.” However, it
was Ferdinand Lundberg’s America’s Sixty Families (1937) that had the greatest
potency. With household names as the malefactors, including Jack Morgan and
Lamont, Lundberg’s book restated the view of an America controlled by a cabal.
He argued that the Depression between 1929 and 1933 had strengthened the
control of the sixty families.36 The book was given a boost through public
approbation by Ickes and Assistant Attorney General Robert Jackson as 1937
closed.37 The Morgan partners were not quiescent as these charges aired;
speaking at the University of Pennsylvania, Lamont addressed the “campaign
against business men and bankers” apparent in books peddling “utterly fantastic
Page 488
Page 488
theses … drawn chiefly from imagination.” Such tracts, he continued, “without
a vestige of supporting proof … spin … ‘spider-webs’ of capitalist ownership,
control or influence.”38
Roosevelt was not pinned to either side. Concern, hope, and suspicion
intermingled at the White House. The president fastened on raising the national
income as remedial for the devastation wrought by the rapidity and severity of
downturn that had begun. Estimating national income at approximately $68
billion, in his public pronouncements he called for an increase to between $90
billion and $100 billion to restore prosperity.39 He did not trust Wall Street, nor
J.P. Morgan & Co., and resented being forced toward accommodation with
business. Yet accommodate he did, notably in his first press conference in
January 1938, where he declined to back Ickes and Jackson, a contradiction
noted drily by Lippmann in his “Today and Tomorrow” column.40 Roosevelt
had good reason to tread carefully, both because of the frightening swiftness of
the recession and because, with his blessing, Adolf Berle had opened
conversations with leading financial, industrial, and labour figures, including
Lamont. Berle, part of the Brain Trust, and known for his study with Gardiner
Means, The Modern Corporation and Private Property (1932), served as
Chamberlain of New York City from 1934 to 1938. He was to return to the
Roosevelt administration to serve as assistant secretary of state in February
1938. Berle did not subscribe to the Money Trust trope. He was not a naïf; like
the president, he had his doubts about the genuineness of the business
commitment. After a meeting with Lamont in mid-December 1937, at which
Lamont pledged support for relief and an unbalanced budget but insisted on
repealing the undistributed profits tax, altering the capital gains tax, reaching a
deal with the utilities, and reducing animosity with business, Berle recorded in
Page 489
Page 489
his diary: “making peace with business all too frequently involves whitewashing
a lot of things that ought not to be allowed anyway.”41
Berle’s talks, which involved John L. Lewis, the president of the United
Mine Workers of America; his ally Philip Murray, the vice-president of Lewis’
Committee for Industrial Organization and the chair of the Steel Workers of
America; their legal counsel Lee Pressman; along with Lamont; Owen Young;
Charles Taussig, president of the American Molasses Corporation; and Tugwell,
now a vice-president at American Molasses, took place on 22–23 December
1937 at the Century Club and in Taussig’s Wall Street office. The conferees
embodied the hope that a combine of finance, industry, and labour blessed with
government patronage could overcome depression. Morgan willingness to
participate reflected Lamont’s habitual engagement, coupled with a desire to
nudge the Roosevelt administration toward solutions to economic distress
deemed more palatable by the Corner. From Berle’s perspective, the Morgan
presence served the purposes of representing finance and also heavy industry
and transport. Before the talks opened, the Pennsylvania Anthracite Coal
Industry Commission had issued a report charging that J.P. Morgan & Co.
controlled eight out of the ten leading mining companies as well as seven of the
nine leading railroads hauling coal. The chair of the commission inveighed,
“There’s no doubt in my mind as to the Morgan control of the industry, and if
Morgan & Co. would cooperate we would soon solve the anthracite problems
without Federal and State action. They were responsible for the breakdown, and
ought to do something constructive for its revival.”42 All were mindful of the
Morgan role in U.S. Steel, the bellwether of the American steel industry. Lewis
for one was open in his belief that grappling with the Corner was necessary if
labour was to make organizational inroads in steel.43 The Berle group agreed on
an ambitious program to end the acrimony among business, labour, and
Page 490
Page 490
government; increase relief even if it meant an unbalanced budget; encourage
the Federal Reserve to furnish more credit while fixing the gold price of the
dollar; repeal the undistributed profits tax as well as modifying the capital gains
tax; foster the means, via government intervention, to allow utilities to expand;
establish an expansive housing program to bolster the country’s housing stock,
perhaps through an agency akin to the RFC; mandate railroad consolidation;
maintain the National Labor Relations Act and pass a wages and hours bill; limit
attacks on monopolies as fruitless; and halt any movement toward war through a
vigorous public opinion campaign. Taussig, Tugwell, and Berle undertook to
present it to Roosevelt.
Appealing in boldness and vaulting in conception, the impossibility of this
blueprint was understood from the outset. Obstacles of various kinds existed, not
least of which was Roosevelt himself, who shied away from an organization of
the American economy that smacked too much of dictatorships. His Jackson Day
speech on 8 January 1938 referred explicitly to the utility companies, cautioned
against the dangers of vesting power in a small minority, and sounded the tocsin
that “there will be a few – a mere handful of the total of business men and
bankers and industrialists – who will fight to the last ditch to retain such
autocratic control over the industry and the finances of the country as they now
possess.”44 While the Berle group, without Tugwell, met with Roosevelt at the
White House on 14 January, following which Lewis acted as spokesman to the
assembled reporters, the president was non-committal (see Figure 8.1). Some of
his advisors, such as Corcoran and Cohen, were either opposed or entertained
doubts about what they construed as steps on the path to collectivism, while the
Berle group could pledge little more than their acquiescence. They were only in
a limited sense representative of the sectors that they purported to speak for. A
glum Berle blamed the loss of traction on the egos of Corcoran and Cohen,
Page 491
Page 491
recording that Lamont and Young were displeased: “They planned a real attempt
to reach an understanding with the Government and apparently it had been used
to make third rate politics. Young is pretty well off the boat; so is Lamont,
though he still would like to help it if he could see a way.”45 Jack Morgan
concurred with Berle, writing Grenfell that “the whole administrative branch of
Government is at loggerheads within itself.”46 Berle’s later gloss that the talks
were “productive” because they demonstrated that labour, capital, and
government could get together was a fig leaf to cover how little was
accomplished.
Figure 8.1 Business and labour leaders leaving the White House in January
1938 after conferring with Roosevelt on the plan sponsored by Adolf A. Berle
to end the 1937–38 recession.
From left to right: Adolf A. Berle, Philip Murray, John L. Lewis, Owen
Young, and Thomas W. Lamont.
Keystone-France/Gamma-Rapho/Getty Images.
This did not mean that Lamont was prepared to concede. His combative
speech at the University of Pennsylvania, which attacked as fallacious notions of
a capital strike as responsible for the downturn and insisted on the loss of
Page 492
Page 492
confidence endemic to the business community since the advent of the New Deal
as causing ongoing American economic difficulties, left open the door. Lamont
told a steel industry critic that he was “impressed” by Lewis and “his realistic
views” as well as “the understanding he seemed to have of the difficulties of
industry as well as of labor.”47 Moreover, the Morgan partners thought that
Roosevelt was “capable of rapid and swift and full reversals of policy. He is like
Lloyd George in this respect. He might just reverse himself quickly enough and
completely enough to deal with the situation before it gets out of hand.”48
Visiting the White House on 14 February 1938 for the first time since 1934,
Lamont met with Roosevelt. Notable was the extent to which Lamont retreated
from the panaceas advanced by the Berle group. His preoccupations were
familiar – freeing the capital market through axing both the undistributed profits
and capital gains taxes, brokering peace between the government and the
utilities, and reversing the deflationary policies of the Federal Reserve. These
suggestions were incorporated into the memorandum that Lamont gave to the
president. Roosevelt’s concerns were wider – he worried about the railroads,
which Lamont acknowledged was legitimate but whose solutions were long-
term. Lamont told Jack Morgan after his meeting with the president that, “I don’t
think I got anywhere, but I came away with not quite the complete sense of
futility that I did last time.” Two days later Lamont wrote Roosevelt, arguing
that the government was so indebted that any notion of Keynesian pump-priming
was impossible. He rested this argument in part on a breakdown of capital
investment between 1931 and 1937, demonstrating that net corporate financing
constituted only 15.2 per cent of the total, whereas government investment
issues (federal, state, municipal) constituted 84.8 per cent. If this was meant to
buttress Morgenthau, it failed. At Roosevelt’s behest Lamont met with Eccles. It
went badly, with Lamont’s insistence on the Federal Reserve changing course
Page 493
Page 493
falling on deaf ears. As Lamont told Roosevelt, Eccles “seems quite philosophic
about keeping the Reserve brakes jammed down tight as they are now.” He
asked Roosevelt to intercede personally with Eccles. Roosevelt had no intention
of acting on any of Lamont’s wishes, he limited his engagement to furnishing
Morgenthau with Lamont’s memorandum, asking him to pass it on to Under-
Secretary of the Treasury Ross Magill, but no more. For his part, Lamont fed
these interchanges with Roosevelt to Krock and Noyes of the New York Times in
the hope of pressurizing the president.49
The Richard Whitney affair intruded as it became apparent that the
discussions with Roosevelt had run their course. Whitney, George Whitney’s
brother, and the embodiment of the old guard on the NYSE resistant to reforms,
was revealed as an embezzler and fraudster following the announcement of the
failure of his eponymous firm in March 1938. The hearings into what had
occurred, driven by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) chair
William O. Douglas, demonstrated that Whitney had been looting accounts held
in trust by his firm, importuning acquaintances on Wall Street for funds to
replace his thefts, and had been doing so for years. Worse, from the perspective
of the Corner, was that Lamont and George Whitney were implicated. George
Whitney’s support of his brother was long-standing. Early in 1937 he loaned his
brother money to alleviate his latest difficulties. More troubling was his next
loan to his brother – totalling $1.082 million in November 1937. Richard
Whitney had “borrowed” securities from a fund that he controlled and was now
asked to replace them. He could not do so and went to his brother for help.
George Whitney did not have the liquidity to loan the funds. He approached
Lamont, telling him that Richard Whitney had gotten involved in a “serious
jam.” Lamont agreed to advance George Whitney the money. Subsequently, in
December 1937, George Whitney asked Jack Morgan if he could tap his capital
Page 494
Page 494
in the bank to discharge his obligation to Lamont. Jack Morgan agreed.
Revelation of Whitney’s peculation followed from internal NYSE probing of the
Whitney firm’s accounts that demonstrated not only the disarray of the books but
irregularities. The NYSE sent in the accountants, leading Charles R. Gay, the
NYSE president, to inform Douglas on 7 March of the findings.50
Overlapping was Richard Whitney’s effort to extricate himself, including
seeking assistance from the Morgan partners. On 5 March 1938 Whitney had
two conversations with Bartow. Bartow ran J.P. Morgan & Co.’s Loan
department and was responsible for the bank’s investment portfolio. With
George Whitney in Florida and Lamont in France, it made sense for Richard
Whitney to approach Bartow. At the first meeting, Whitney told Bartow that he
was in trouble, without providing specifics. At the second meeting, he confessed,
spelling out what he had been doing – borrowing securities from accounts in his
firm’s control and pledging the securities as collateral for his personal
borrowings. Whitney asked Bartow for an immediate loan of $280,000. Bartow
demurred and met with John W. Davis and Gay later that day. The following day
Bartow went to Jack Morgan’s Long Island estate at noon, where he disclosed
Whitney’s fraud. Jack Morgan agreed that lending Richard Whitney money was
unthinkable. On Monday 7 March Bartow called George Whitney to tell him of
these developments.51
The SEC hearings that unfolded from April to June 1938 featured the
testimony of multiple Morgan partners. By the time that Anderson, Davison,
Bartow, Lamont, Jack Morgan, and George Whitney appeared, there was no
question about what Richard Whitney had done. He had confessed and had been
convicted. At stake was not Richard Whitney’s guilt but rather the reform of the
stock exchange. Linked to this was J.P. Morgan & Co. and their influence over
the NYSE. Historians have tended to see the Whitney affair as a critical moment
Page 495
Page 495
in a contest between New Deal reformers and traditionalists over securities
regulation, with the reformers, led by Douglas, triumphing, sweeping away
Morgan influence.52 The impact of the Whitney failure on J.P. Morgan & Co.
has been misunderstood. It was of little import with regard to their putative sway
over the NYSE. This was imaginary rather than real by 1937–38. As Thomas S.
Lamont wrote his father, J.P. Morgan & Co. had not been “active” in NYSE
affairs for years. We must counter this misperception, he recommended, pointing
out that Richard Whitney “was never ‘our candidate’. This view is so widely
held by members of the N.Y.S.E. and by the public. We have never done
anything to counter this erroneous opinion.” Lamont’s memorandum concluded
that “From information that we have received, it is clear that there is a drive on
to drive us off the New York Stock Exchange.”53 However, the partners did
little. Lamont insisted at the SEC hearings that Morgan business on the NYSE
was smaller than public opinion held and that the firm itself was “by a very large
margin” a banking concern, not an exchange business, but this was half-hearted.
Lethargy was motivated by overconfidence. Wasson, writing Lamont, laid out
his survey of the media: “From the beginning we have obtained complete
transcripts of what the radio commentators have had to say, and I have now
perused upwards of 100 editorials that appeared in New England, the east, the
south and the middle west.” He informed Lamont that radio commentary had
been “extraordinarily generous” to Richard Whitney. Just two editorials had
mentioned George Whitney “and both of them interpreted it in a highly
favourable way to George Whitney. He had stood loyally by his brother at great
personal sacrifice.” As for the press, “In the editorial comment I have been
astonished to see how seldom the firm’s name is mentioned. Most of them omit
us altogether. Others mention us only incidentally, and not one of them with any
suggestion of blame attached to us.” Nor, Wasson went on, did the editorials
Page 496
Page 496
think that the Whitney case is symptomatic of broader corruption on Wall Street
– it is an “exceptional occurrence” and “several say that it will unfortunately
blacken Wall Street as a whole for people who do not distinguish between the
misdeeds of an individual and those of a class.”54 No wonder there was no
sustained push by the firm with this optimistic analysis of public opinion.
Wasson, alas, neglected Douglas. His ambitions were greater than chair of the
SEC. The Whitney affair was tailormade for displaying his bona fides as a
possible name on the Democratic ticket in 1940.
The Richard Whitney scandal mattered to the partners but not in a
regulatory sense. They were indifferent on this count; the damage had long been
done during the opening stanza of the New Deal with the Securities Act of 1934.
The threat in 1938 was to Lamont and George Whitney. They knew about
Richard Whitney’s frauds, perhaps not every detail but more than enough to
appreciate his guilt. From Florence Corliss Lamont, we know the toll exacted on
Lamont. Writing her son from France, where she was holidaying with Lamont,
she observed, “When all this Whitney thing came up, he was greatly troubled
about it, & after those long telephone calls every night he could not sleep & his
heart began to ‘thump’ (he calls it) & make a singing in his ears..[he] ..is worried
all the time.”55 He was worried for good reason, as the hearings were to
demonstrate. In not disclosing what they knew, Lamont and Whitney were guilty
of misprision. They knew that Richard Whitney had committed crimes and they
did not make that knowledge public. It was the possibility of charges against two
of the most important Morgan partners, with the attendant reputational damage,
that preoccupied the firm. The Justice Department opted not to proceed with
charges against Lamont or Whitney in the fall of 1938, undoubtedly to the relief
of the partners and to the chagrin of Douglas.56
Page 497
Page 497
Roosevelt was not deterred by the Whitney scandal from approaching J.P.
Morgan & Co., though by this juncture Lamont was less and less discreet in his
hostility to the president’s domestic agenda. Lamont told Lord Robert Cecil for
one that, “Hitler is menacing the peace of Europe, Franklin Roosevelt has
menaced and is continuing to menace the progress of all enterprise and industry
in this country. And the war that he is waging on business is far more devastating
so far as this country is concerned than the threats that Hitler is throwing at you
people.”57 Through Joseph Kennedy, the president sought a deal with the
Morgan partners over U.S. Steel. Roosevelt’s motivations were transparent. With
the economy limping – the 1937–38 contraction did not end until June 1938 and
thereafter improvement was sluggish – he wanted to forestall the possibility of
wage cuts in the steel industry. His eyes were fixed on the upcoming November
elections. He feared that labour unrest might make his political task ahead more
daunting. This led to Roosevelt contacting Lamont late in June 1938.58 Unlike
many of the other companies that were assumed, incorrectly, to be controlled by
the Corner, such as General Motors or Johns-Manville, at U.S. Steel the Morgan
presence was real. Throughout the 1930s Jack Morgan and Lamont were
consulted on major strategic decisions made by U.S. Steel.59 Questions such as
the dividends, strikes, and wages were referred to both men for comment. U.S.
Steel was the largest company in the sector, with the highest number of
employees, and its association with J.P. Morgan & Co. was indelible. Myron
Taylor, the guiding force at U.S. Steel as chair of the board and chief executive
officer from 1932 to 1938, had been chosen for the job by the Morgan partners,
as was his successor, Frank Fairless.60 It was with good reason that Fortune
magazine observed in 1936, “The Corporation is the leading example of what is
known as ‘a Morgan company’. Indeed, considering its size and the fact that the
elder Morgan created it, the Corporation may well be called the Morgan
Page 498
Page 498
company.” As Fortune noted, after downplaying the influence of directors on
Page 499
Page 499
modern management, “If there ever was a case for banker influence on
management, for good or evil, the Steel Corporation is it.”61
Roosevelt knew the power of the Morgan voice at U.S. Steel. His choice of
Kennedy was considered. Kennedy, who revelled in the shadows, was now the
US ambassador at the Court of St. James and, while not an intimate of the
Morgan partners, was familiar with them. Kennedy believed in appeasement as
did the Morgan partners.62 Arthur Krock of the New York Times served as the
intermediary. His participation was more surprising. Krock had a social
relationship with Thomas S. Lamont, was fed information by Thomas W.
Lamont, and possessed an apartment where Kennedy and Lamont could meet
discreetly. Yet Krock was not a friend of the New Deal nor of Roosevelt, though
he was on Kennedy’s payroll.63 The proposal that was sketched out to Lamont
by Kennedy was breathtaking. Roosevelt had welcomed in his fireside chat of 24
June the announcement by U.S. Steel that it was cutting steel prices while not
reducing wages. The following day Edward R. Stettinius Jr., the chair of U.S.
Steel, demurred, authorizing a press release that wage cuts were still under
consideration. Kennedy brought Lamont a deal from Roosevelt – he suggested
that U.S. Steel implement the reduction in steel prices for ninety days without a
corresponding wage decrease. If at the end of that time U.S. Steel was still losing
money, then negotiations could be opened with Lewis and the Congress of
Industrial Organizations (CIO) about wages. Carrot and stick were proffered by
Kennedy, who tabled two memoranda, one written by Corcoran, the other by
Ickes, both sanctioned by Roosevelt, that promised that government steel
contracts would be channelled to those firms “playing ball.” According to
Krock, the president had, acting on a suggestion from Corcoran, instructed the
chair of the Tariff Commission to find a way to raise the tariff on iron ore as a
means of striking at Bethlehem Steel, U.S. Steel’s competitor, which was
Page 500
Page 500
vulnerable because its iron ore was imported from Canada. Krock recorded that
Lamont “turned pale” on hearing these words.64 There ensued several days of
jockeying among Lamont, Stettinius, and the White House, before the scheme
was interred. Lamont, writing the president on 30 June 1938, told him that U.S.
Steel was losing $4.2 million a month, suggesting that, since U.S. Steel was
operating at less than 30 per cent capacity, Fairless and Lewis had to agree on a
revision of wages, with Roosevelt as the broker. The administration concluded
the talks were imprudent, while the U.S. Steel executive consulted Jack
Morgan.65 Through Junius Morgan cables were exchanged with Jack Morgan,
then in London, about the dividend and a wage cut. This was supplemented by a
personal visit from Taylor to Jack Morgan in July. Roosevelt had not abandoned
his hopes entirely, for in August he resurrected the matter, approaching the U.S.
Steel leadership directly, stressing that he did not wish to see any wage cut by
U.S. Steel until after the election.66
A characteristically Rooseveltian subterfuge – acting through emissaries
endowed with vague authority in secretive ways – the episode confirmed
Lamont’s fears. Writing Jan Christian Smuts as he was being wooed, Lamont
fulminated, lambasting Roosevelt and his advisors for their embrace of
“perfectly fantastic economic and financial policies” that were “a dead weight
on individual enterprise.”67 Recounting the U.S. Steel incident to Rodd, Lamont
argued that what it demonstrated was the extent of the administration’s control
over industry. He forecast that the Temporary National Economic Commission
(TNEC), with its stated objective of investigating monopoly concentration, was a
device to sway the gullible at the polls.68 The U.S. Steel episode did not create
Morgan animosity toward Roosevelt – that was long-standing, arising from the
repercussions of Glass–Steagall. Jack Morgan had converted early to hatred of
the president. George Whitney was never fond of Roosevelt nor found his
Page 501
Page 501
policies congenial. Lamont had been less sceptical of Roosevelt, less certain of
his waywardness. The year 1938 converted Lamont wholly to the view that
Roosevelt was inimical to American capitalism. Only Leffingwell among the
Morgan partners remained a qualified supporter of the president’s domestic
policies.
*****
By 1939 the Morgan partners faced an unpleasant truth: J.P. Morgan & Co. was
treading water as a commercial, deposit bank. The severity of the 1937–38
recession alone could not be blamed for indifferent results. Assets, which had
stood at $550 million at the end of 1936, after falling in 1937, reached $582
million at the close of 1938. A spike took them higher to $671 million a year
later. Assets had last been at this level at the beginning of 1931. Deposits, too,
surged, rising from 1937’s recession low of nearly $395 million to $521 million
at the end of 1938 and almost $672 million in December 1939. These trends,
dictated to a significant degree by inflows of money from Europe seeking
security, were not unique to the Corner. Chase, whose deposits by 1940 stood at
a staggering $3.8 billion, was a conspicuous example of the phenomenon of
European inflows.69 Neither assets nor deposits revealed the cul-de-sac that the
Corner found itself in. The J.P. Morgan & Co. balance sheet was distorted. It was
dominated on the asset side by cash and government bonds, federal, state, and
municipal. At the end of 1937, 81 per cent of Morgan assets were in cash and
government securities, which was not out of line with past practice. Assets in
these categories then rose to 88 per cent at the end of 1938, reaching the
astonishing figure of 92 per cent when 1939 closed. As had been true since 1931,
the Morgan preference for liquidity was not dissimilar to that of other American
financial institutions. What stood out was just how far the Morgan partners went
in seeking refuge. Loans and bills purchased at the close of 1937 constituted 11
Page 502
Page 502
per cent of assets, tumbling to 5 per cent in 1938, before reaching the miserly
figure of 3.5 per cent as 1939 ended. Some sense of how extraordinary this
disavowal of lending was may be gained by comparing the results of the Bank of
Manhattan. The latter was of similar size to the Corner, with assets at the end of
1939 of $667 million. Its loans and discounts stood at just over $162 million, or
24 per cent of assets, when the Morgan bank’s outstanding loans and bills
purchased amounted to slightly more than $23 million.70 This raises the
question: What was J.P. Morgan & Co. doing? Foreign government lending,
between 1918 and 1930, one of the chief activities of the Corner, did not return
in the late 1930s as the partners refused to entertain any loan that might infringe
on the Johnson Act. The firm continued to buy and sell stocks and bonds for its
account and for clients. In 1937 the firm handled $849 million of US
government notes and bonds, of which $709 million was for the firm account
and $139 million for customer accounts. Other bonds (unspecified) showed a
different distribution. Of the total, $32 million were for the firm and $162
million for clients. Stock transactions demonstrated the same pattern – of the
2.738 million shares that the bank bought and sold, 2.597 million were for
clients and only 140,000 for the firm. This business was not lucrative. Jack
Morgan testified that in executing purchases and sales the firm received 1/16 of
1 per cent as its share of the commission.71 Extreme prudence notwithstanding,
the bank suffered losses in both 1937 and 1938. Persistent low interest rates
exerted pressure on margins, a point Lamont acknowledged, commenting on
how “meagre” Morgan returns were.72 The surplus and partners’ balances
sagged to just under $19 million in December 1938.73 While the comparison is
inexact, at the high-water mark of December 1929 J.P. Morgan & Co.’s net
worth was close to $119 million. It had been a long fall.
Page 503
Page 503
J.P. Morgan & Co. was in stasis. Jack Morgan understood this. He told
Grenfell in January 1938 that “Business of course, in the way of enterprise, has
ceased to exist for us,” remarking that the firm was in a “comatose condition.” A
year later, Lamont echoed these comments in a pessimistic letter to Taylor.74
Decisions made by the partners contributed to Morgan stagnation.
Circumventing Glass–Steagall through the establishment of Morgan Stanley was
predicated on a Democratic defeat in November 1936. When that failed to
transpire, the partners were left bereft, for they had not thought about what might
happen if Roosevelt was re-elected. Once he was, what could J.P. Morgan & Co.
do? Should the partners wait for 1940 and a hoped-for Republican victory to
reintegrate Morgan Stanley? If so, what did this mean for the bank in the
interim? The partners had no immediate answers to these questions, preferring to
wait and see. The rapid onset of the 1937–38 contraction fostered inactivity even
while Lamont, Leffingwell, and Parker Gilbert pushed for action in Washington.
While J.P. Morgan & Co. remained a partnership after 1935, it was a partnership
that had lost much of its raison d’être. J.P. Morgan & Co. had fostered and
pursued relationships with its clients. Those traits served the partners well when
they catered to elites, to a selected corporate roster, and to foreign governments.
Advising, investing capital, pooling funds, orchestrating loans, syndicating bond
issues, had been what the Morgan partners did, complemented by their basic
banking business of taking deposits, arranging foreign exchange purchases, and
lending money. The Great Contraction between 1929 and 1933 diminished the
elite and reduced their capital.75 After 1935 the Morgan partners were private
merchant bankers no longer in the private merchant banking business. Instead,
they were commercial deposit bankers, a business in which most of the partners
had neither expertise nor interest. According to Mitchell, Bartow was the “[o]nly
partner who really understood commercial banking and was really willing to
Page 504
Page 504
take an interest in it.”76 Long leery of pursuing commercial banking business,
Page 505
Page 505
J.P. Morgan & Co. found itself competing against institutions who were whole-
heartedly committed to that business.
Worrying too was the state of the House of Morgan. Morgan & Cie. in Paris
was healthy, with a solid core of partners, but it was the lesser of the Morgan
firms abroad. Looking at Morgan Grenfell in the spring of 1936, Jack Morgan
and Lamont were concerned. A disinterested, elderly, and inexperienced group of
partners staffed a London firm slouching toward insignificance. New York’s
situation was stronger. Faith was expressed in the composition and number of
the rota of Morgan partners.77 That faith was confounded by a series of deaths
and illnesses. Jack Morgan had a stroke in the early summer of 1936, followed
by Cochran’s death in the fall. If Cochran had been inactive for years, his death
necessitated a reformation of the partnership as his estate’s share was discharged.
Both Leffingwell and Whitney suffered serious ailments that forced their
absence for substantial amounts of time in 1937–38. Short of manpower, Charles
D. Dickey was shifted from Drexel & Co. in Philadelphia to New York in 1937.
Then Parker Gilbert died. His death in February 1938 at the age of forty-five
robbed the Corner of one of its hardest-working younger partners. Lamont’s
subsequent health issues prompted Florence Lamont to urge her son Thomas S.
Lamont, “You must get more people in the firm & quickly.”78
Discussions had been underway for some time. During Lamont’s April
1937 visit to Europe, Carter of Morgan & Cie. voiced his desire to become a
Morgan partner in New York. Dean Jay, on the other hand, “waived all claim to
preference in New York firm.”79 Carter’s ambition was not met – he stayed in
Paris. It is not clear why the New York partners vetoed Carter’s wish. It may
have been motivated by unwillingness to weaken the French firm, for Carter was
one of the two senior partners. After the war, Leffingwell observed “on the
whole, the partners and directors have been chosen for personality and
Page 506
Page 506
judgement and for business ability and business associations, because we
thought we needed them for business reasons.”80 Carter had been in France for
many years. His appointment to New York would do little to strengthen the
firm’s associations in the United States. The decision was made late in 1938 to
add three new partners, the first since Parker Gilbert in 1931. Henry C.
Alexander, Isaac C. Atkin, and William A. Mitchell were named partners in
February 1939. Of the three, two – Atkin and Mitchell – were specialists who
had come through the ranks of J.P. Morgan & Co. Atkin had joined the firm from
the Royal Bank of Canada in 1925. From 1927 he headed J.P. Morgan & Co.’s
foreign exchange department. His expertise was valuable in a world where
currency blocs, restrictions, and capital flight were endemic. Mitchell, like
Atkin, was another internationally orientated banker, though in his case he
specialized in letters of credit. Like Atkin, he had begun working for J.P. Morgan
& Co. in 1925. The third new partner, Alexander, was different. Alexander was a
lawyer who made a favourable impression on Jack Morgan at the Nye
Committee hearings. Alexander knew little about banking, but he was bright,
young (thirty-six when he became a partner), and dynamic. Jack Morgan
described Alexander as “very high quality” with his legal training adding to his
appeal, for Parker Gilbert’s death had left only Leffingwell among the partners
whose judgements were infused by a legal sensibility.81 These choices suggest
the firm was battening the hatches with war in sight. Evidently, as of late 1938,
the partners had decided not to abandon the idea of a partnership. Within
months, they reversed course. Why?
The excuse was the death of Charles Steele on 5 August 1939. When he
died he held more than 36 per cent of the firm’s capital, the largest share in the
partnership. Lamont held 34 per cent and he was sixty-nine years old with recent
heart trouble. Jack Morgan, who held 9 per cent of the firm, was seventy-two. To
Page 507
Page 507
pay out Steele’s estate, the partners were forced to reduce their capital by $5
million, dropping the bank’s capital to $20 million. Should Lamont die soon
thereafter, the firm would find it hard to survive. The likelihood of Steele’s death
had hovered for some time, a contingency that the partners well understood. The
critical issue was not Steele – it was the nature of the J.P. Morgan & Co. banking
business. As Lamont confessed to Dean Jay, “[i]t has for a long time been clear
that … our banking business was being cramped by the manifest necessity of
keeping over-liquid. Any definite plans, however, to meet this situation were
postponed – and perhaps I was the chief postponer – until the C.S. matter made
it clear that action was necessary.” Earlier, Lamont had told Dean Jay that it was
the cumulative impact of the New Deal changes to the banking and security laws
that spurred incorporation, for those changes had reduced J.P. Morgan & Co. to
an “almost purely banking business” earning far less. This in turn had made
recruiting new partners more difficult. Those of the requisite “timber” – with
“large substance and capital” – were not “readily available.” Worse, should new
partners be admitted, then the fundamental problem would recur, for it was likely
that deaths would not be “spaced out” given the ages of Lamont and Jack
Morgan. New partners earned much less, were less able to amass capital, and
were hard-pressed to sustain losses. Incorporation had the benefit of allowing
J.P. Morgan & Co. to make its trust department operational, thus offering clients
an in-house service, while capturing the associated fees. Steele’s death
concentrated Morgan minds: J.P. Morgan & Co. was faring poorly as a
partnership in a modified American capitalism. That had to change if the bank
was to prosper. The timing of what Jack Morgan told Grenfell and V.H. Smith
was an “obviously essential” step was dictated by the difficulties of banking writ
large as well as the war. With earnings as low as they were, any improvement in
business irrespective of whether Roosevelt was re-elected for a third term would
Page 508
Page 508
help. War made it possible to make the change quietly.82 The capital pledges the
partners made and the shares that they received varied. Lamont, with his 70,000
shares and $14.125 million pledged, took pride of place. Jack Morgan subscribed
to 20,000 shares or $4 million, with Leffingwell comfortably in third with
17,500 shares and $3.5 million pledged. At the other extreme were the new
partners. Atkin was allotted no shares, Mitchell 65, and Alexander 500.83 With
incorporation, the partners made the strategic decision that they had not been
willing to make in 1935.
*****
After Hitler’s remilitarization of the Rhineland in 1936 and the outbreak of the
Spanish Civil War, the shadow of war grew. Its penumbra was uneven. Germany
was the preeminent French concern. While the Alps and Italy irritated, the Rhine
and Germany obsessed Paris. Britain looked to empire, where the Channel, the
Mediterranean, and the Far East were all threatened in the eyes of Whitehall.
Domestic politics complicated matters. A powerful strand of opinion in both
Britain and France doubted the Soviet Union, despising communism, fearful of
its stated intent, imagining the extirpation of capitalism in a sanguinary
proletarian rising that would accompany war. If anti-Bolshevism anchored
trepidation, it was given added impetus by the Show Trials, the onset of purges
in the Red Army, and the consequent downgrading of Soviet military
effectiveness by Western military observers. Hostility to the Soviet experiment
was most apparent on the right but was not confined to it. Linked, though not
identic, were voices that hankered for a revised postwar settlement that would
accommodate German and, to a lesser degree, Italian grievances. Open partisans
of Nazism or Fascism as the wave of the future in Britain and France were few,
though more numerous in the latter if groups such as Colonel de la Rocque’s
Parti Social Français are deemed fascist. The moderate conservatism that
Page 509
Page 509
dominated the National government in Britain and the Radical ministries that
followed the Popular Front in France pursued appeasement to resolve the
security problems each state faced. The architects of appeasement saw it as
offering an acceptable solution but also a means of solidifying domestic political
control at the expense of rivals, within and without their governing coalitions.
Domestic and foreign calculations were linked indissolubly.84
Appeasement promised to induce harmony, through economic concessions
and political settlement that would revive the liberal international trading order
that J.P. Morgan & Co. believed in. Seeing the travails of the 1930s as provoked
by the unsatisfactory postwar settlement, by the late 1930s the Morgan partners
had embraced the conviction that it had been botched irrevocably. The
disappearance of the Austro-Hungarian Empire was a tragedy, the League of
Nations a toothless failure, the Soviet Union an ongoing threat. German
resentments were legitimate and could be treated through application of the
appeasement curative. As appeasement developed, the Morgan partners were
bystanders, contributing little to it. This did not mean an absence of interaction;
French vulnerability led Paris to seek the help of the Corner.
The Popular Front, led by Léon Blum, having kick-started French
rearmament in their 1936 spending program at the cost of alienating domestic
political support, found themselves mired in economic weakness and foreign
threat.85 The former was addressed with devaluation of the franc in September
1936, assisted by London and Washington, while the latter, in the shape of the
Spanish Civil War, had to be fobbed off through the Non-Intervention
Committee. Yet the French economy continued to limp. French weakness –
economic and military –in the face of the growing German threat impelled resort
to the United States. With a French National Defence Loan contemplated,
Georges Bonnet, then the ambassador at Washington, was charged with
exploring whether J.P. Morgan & Co. would act as the French paying agent for
Page 510
Page 510
the coupon in the United States. As an expression of the perpetual French hope
that assistance would be found from America, it was more than a touch
illusory.86 The French approach was not a shock to the Corner, as cables early in
1937 had raised the possibility. Lamont and Leffingwell, who were the principals
on the Morgan side, were anxious. Neither man wished to violate the Johnson
Act. They rushed to consult with Harrison and, through him, sought
Morgenthau’s views. Morgenthau was affronted, judging the idea premature. His
annoyance was reflected in his diary: “[t]he nice thing about the French is, they
never wait for your answer. They are sweet people.”87 When the answer returned
that Morgenthau was opposed, the Morgan partners hastened to tell Morgan &
Cie. that any notion that they might act on behalf of Paris was inconceivable,
going so far as to stress that there was no confidence whatsoever on Wall Street
in French finances.88
The French overture leaked. The Washington Post in its front-page article
remarked the matter demonstrated the “near desperate” French need for funds to
meet the German threat. Press reports stated that Morgan & Cie. had been
appointed the fiscal agent of France, while the New York Times ran a story citing
the French newspaper L’Oeuvre that Morgan & Cie. had subscribed to 1 billion
francs of the loan in France. Neither assertion was true. Leffingwell reassured
Morgenthau that much of what had been reported was a concoction, but the
stories touched a political nerve. A high-powered congressional delegation,
consisting of Senator Joseph Robinson, the Democratic Senate majority leader,
Pittman, the Democratic chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
William B. Bankhead, the Democratic Speaker of the House, and Sam D.
McReynolds, the Democratic chair of the House Foreign Affairs Committee,
visited Morgenthau to voice their opposition to any Morgan participation in a
French placement. Another Democrat, Senator J. Hamilton Lewis of Illinois,
Page 511
Page 511
threatened legislation that would empower Congress to seize any funds arising
from an “illegal” loan. Borah, condemning a “miserable evasion of law,”
charged on the Senate floor that it was an “apparent conspiracy of American and
French bankers.”89 The Morgan partners were aghast. They had made plain they
would comply with the Johnson Act, but the damage was done. The perception
of the Morgan bank working on behalf of France in contravention of American
legislation had been established.
In 1938–39 Paris turned again to the Corner, motivated by French
deficiencies in airpower. A combination of fears about the steadfastness of civil
society under the threat of air warfare, a conviction that German air strength had
lapped theirs, and the reality that efforts to ramp up aircraft production were
encountering difficulties shaped the French national security outlook. Daladier’s
grudging acquiescence at Munich to a settlement he was dismayed by privately
was conditioned by negative assessments of the French air force vis-à-vis the
Luftwaffe, with predictions that the latter would sweep the French air force from
the skies within days featuring in French thinking.90 What unfolded as the
French sought to redress their airpower weakness in part through American
purchases was a demonstration of how risk-averse the Morgan firm had become,
a realization that dawned slowly on French policymakers.
In May 1938 Morgan & Cie. cabled New York that the French were in talks
with the Curtiss-Wright Corporation. Paris wanted to place an order for 100 of
the newly developed Curtiss P-36 Hawk fighters that had been selected by the
American Army Air Force. J.P. Morgan & Co. were asked to handle the
financing end of the purchase. The Morgan partners were willing and, after
consulting their lawyers and the State Department to ensure that there was no
conflict with the Johnson Act, brokered the contract on the basis of a
commission of 1.25 per cent. The engines for the P-36 planes were being
Page 512
Page 512
furnished by United Aircraft. United had wanted to use National City Bank but
the French Treasury insisted on J.P. Morgan & Co. By the end of June 1938 the
package – planes, engines, propellers, spare parts – had been signed. That fall a
smaller order was negotiated through the Corner between France and Lockheed
Corporation. Other contracts, for hydraulic presses and locomotives, followed.91
Late in 1938 the French returned to the question of additional aircraft orders
in the United States. This complemented Roosevelt’s determination to bolster
American airpower while assisting French efforts to improve their air strength.
Like many, the president had been impressed by airpower as an element in
German aggressiveness. Roosevelt’s willingness, despite Morgenthau’s initial
fears that the French foreign exchange position was so fragile that it would be
endangered by unrestrained buying, led the French to explore the possibility in
December 1938 of placing an order for 1,000 planes in the United States.92 One
irritant was French resistance to payments being made through an American
bank in dollars. Paris preferred direct payment, desiring to pay for orders with
francs in whole or in part. Recognizing the importance of this proviso to the
French, Morgan & Cie. cabled New York late in January 1939, suggesting a
more flexible approach to payments. Their plan, which involved the French
government, J.P. Morgan & Co., and Morgan & Cie. collaborating in a scheme
designed to utilize francs on a large scale, was vetoed by New York on the
grounds that both the size of the commitment conceived (a maximum of $20
million) and the Johnson Act ruled it out. While a solution was found
subsequently in using the FRBNY as an intermediary, it owed nothing to the
Corner.93 As the Morgan partners mulled over the proposition advanced by
Morgan & Cie., the crash of a Douglas bomber in California carrying a French
military observer forced Roosevelt into a testy confrontation with a Senate
delegation, raising doubts about how far the president was willing to go to
accede to French pleas. Morgan enthusiasm about aiding France cooled as a
Page 513
Page 513
proposed French order for 50,000 tons of copper illustrated. Approached to
arrange the financing, the Morgan partners demurred, citing the Johnson Act,
stressing that any operation would have to be either by cash or through the credit
standing of French corporations. These views, communicated to the French
Treasury and the Bank of France, elicited a fierce response. Fed up with Morgan
foot-dragging, the French turned to others. Payment arrangements for the copper
were struck with Chase National, National City Bank, and Bankers Trust, all of
whom were willing. Lamely, Lamont sought to regain lost ground, assuring Paris
that the Morgan attitude had been dictated by a desire to ensure that larger
operations not be spoiled.94
If the French hoped to find material assistance in the United States using
J.P. Morgan & Co., Chamberlain’s government counted less on aid from
America. Should war come and should it be lengthy, as was expected, then
America would be required as a source of foodstuffs and goods.95 Yet the British
position was stronger than France’s. Having recovered more rapidly from the
Depression than France, blessed with a larger industrial base, able to draw on the
greater resources of their empire, the British rearmament effort was proceeding
more smoothly. Britain did not need to place orders for aircraft in the United
States. There was guarded confidence in British financial assets and J.P. Morgan
& Co.’s help was not sought. Tortuous discussions on an Anglo-American trade
pact had resulted at length in an agreement in November 1938, an outcome in
which Lamont had played a small part. Though Hull was pleased, for
Chamberlain the pact was ancillary to his chief project of appeasement.
Chamberlain would not brook dissent with regard to foreign policy. His sacking
of Anthony Eden, the foreign secretary, in February 1938 over disagreements on
Italy had made this evident. The Morgan partners applauded Chamberlain’s
rigour, seeing in his doggedness the best hope for amity and stability in
Page 514
Page 514
international relations. Morgan approval of Chamberlain’s course was one thing;
shaping that policy quite another. The City of London was solidly pro-
appeasement, and so too the Bank of England, but the influence of the Corner
was at a low ebb as Morgan Grenfell sagged. Norman’s jotting on a meeting
with Lamont in July 1939, “Lunch + 10 mins hot-air,” signalled where matters
stood.96
Commending a foreign policy over which they had no say, but in which
they believed, Lamont, Leffingwell, and Jack Morgan told their correspondents
at home and abroad their conviction that Chamberlain had it right. They wrote
Lippmann, pressed the columnist Dorothy Thompson, contacted Waldorf Astor,
clashed with Lord Robert Cecil, promoted the wisdom of appeasement through
Fummi in the hopes Mussolini would listen, and defended the Munich agreement
to Smuts.97 Munich was a triumph, the apotheosis of Chamberlain’s endeavours.
Jack Morgan despatched a congratulatory cable to Chamberlain expressing the
relief that the partners felt.98 The same day, Leffingwell wrote Lamont, relieved
because war would “have imperiled the very existence of England as a great
power, and have led to the spread of communism and the destruction of all the
things we care about.” Leffingwell was unsparing in his contempt for those who
hoped for war in Europe – the Jews, the Communists, the adherents of the
League of Nations, those who followed “Pretty Boy Eden,” all of whom, in
Leffingwell’s judgement, had been thwarted by Chamberlain’s resoluteness.
Much of Leffingwell’s vitriol had its wellspring in a melding of anti-communism
and anti-Semitism. His warnings that war would benefit only the Bolsheviks,
who would laugh “cacophonously” as Britain, France, and Germany warred,
echoed standard tropes of the European right in the 1930s.99
Post-Munich, a cautionary note crept into Morgan evaluations. Lamont
remained a true believer; his faith in appeasement never flagged. His colleagues
Page 515
Page 515
were less sure. Jack Morgan wrote Lamont: “the whole question of peace
depends entirely on keeping an honourable understanding; and whether you are
safe to expect the Germans to keep one, or not, seems to me to be a very vital
question, and one to which there is probably only one answer.”100 Jack Morgan’s
hostility to the Germans, his tendency to think in national, stereotypical terms,
powered his uncertainty. Leffingwell’s doubts, aired in April 1939, following
Hitler’s seizure of post-Munich Czechoslovakia, were predicated on different
notions. Britain had issued a guarantee of territorial integrity to Poland in
reaction, then extended to Romania and Greece. Talks were in train among
Britain, France, and the Soviet Union on a wider pact. Leffingwell now
wondered about Chamberlain. He opined that the guarantees seemed the product
of “haste, fright and domestic politics.” More damningly, “I begin to think that
Chamberlain is not the great man he seemed at Munich, but just an elderly
politician who wanted peace badly enough to give up Czecho-Slovakia to keep
the peace, but who did not want peace badly enough to drink the cup of
humiliation to the dregs.”101 For Leffingwell, the attraction of Roosevelt’s
foreign policy was that it promised to salvage American capitalism from the
looming wreck of war; what mattered was that the nightmare of the civilized
world destroying itself be averted. There was a paradox evident: if at home the
Morgan partners feared Roosevelt’s policies were endangering capitalism, his
foreign policy held out the lure of salvation for what they held most dear.
Roosevelt’s interaction with Chamberlain was freighted with coolness,
incomprehension, and suspicion. The president was content to allow the prime
minister to blaze appeasement’s trail, especially after the rejection of his January
1938 proposal suggesting an international conference to discuss European
disputes.102 D.C. Watt’s “unreliable windbag” perhaps goes too far in describing
Chamberlain’s assessment of Roosevelt, but his broader point that the president
Page 516
Page 516
moved to “following and supporting the same line – ‘appeasement’ – as the
leaders of Britain and France” is on the mark.103 Roosevelt, bruised by the
domestic political events of 1937 and 1938, aware of opposition to any step that
might be interpreted as leading the United States toward belligerency, proceeded
deliberatively. Roosevelt’s endorsement of appeasement was seized on by the
Morgan partners, thus Lamont’s remark to a British correspondent that he was
“warmly in sympathy” with Roosevelt’s foreign policy.104 Lamont was gushing
in his praise for Roosevelt’s efforts in September 1938 to avert war.105
There is nothing that suggests that Roosevelt consulted the Morgan partners
about his foreign policy in 1938–39.106 The Corner followed the president. J.P.
Morgan & Co. agreed with the means Roosevelt advanced to help Britain and
France. The White House hoped to do so through the provision of economic and
financial aid, a prescription that Lamont and his partners thought sensible, even
if, as the French case showed, Morgan praxis was timid. The president wanted
revision of the Neutrality legislation, another point of commonality with the
Morgan partners. The Morgan perspective was straightforward: the Neutrality
Laws were anything but neutral. Their insistence on prohibiting commerce was
aiding the dictators by robbing those who would stand up to them of the means
to confront aggression. The Neutrality Laws made war more likely rather than
less.107 Such views were not singular, aligning with those inclined to portray the
Neutrality legislation as an error, not least of whom was Lippmann.
Perceptions that J.P. Morgan & Co. was more than another fellow traveller
persisted. Some of this was historical – the Morgan partners and their firm had
been consequential in the postwar peace settlement, in its teething through the
1920s, in the effort to shore it up from 1929–33, and in contacts with the
revisionist states of Germany, Italy, and Japan. Some of it was structural, with
Morgan Grenfell in London and Morgan & Cie. in Paris prompting the
Page 517
Page 517
conclusion that the Morgan firm was acting as a conduit among like-minded,
democratic, capitalist powers. Some of it was due to Morgan activity, principally
Lamont’s indefatigability. During Lamont’s summer 1939 trip to Europe, he met
with Paul Reynaud, the French minister of finance, lunched with the American
ambassador at Brussels after conferring with a senior official of the Reichsbank,
then crossed the Channel to lunch with Chamberlain, visited Sir Edward Halifax,
the foreign secretary, found time to see Norman, before journeying to Cliveden
to stay with the Astors.108 Less frenetically, Jack Morgan had Chamberlain to
shoot at Gannochy (his Scottish estate) in 1938, was consulted by Baron
Hardinge, the private secretary to George VI, on whether a tour of the United
States by the royal couple would be welcomed, and hosted the king and queen at
Gannochy before the outbreak of war.109 Lamont’s identification with the
Cliveden set and in particular his ties to Philip Kerr, Lord Lothian, from
September 1939 the British ambassador at Washington, noted for his
appeasement ardour and his anti-communism, strengthened the impression that
the Morgan partners still walked the corridors of power. Duly reported, observers
could be forgiven for concluding that Morgan influence remained. The
Cleveland-based industrialist Cyrus Eaton, in apoplectic cables to Hoover on the
eve of the European war, cited Jack Morgan’s hosting of the archbishop of
Canterbury and the king and queen as evidence of his contention that the
membership of the newly established War Resources Board, an outgrowth of the
Army and Navy Munitions Board charged with implementing economic
mobilization, was “selected in the Morgan office.” His conviction was
strengthened when the FRBNY announced a financial advisory committee that
featured, among others, Henry S. Morgan. Eaton pleaded with Hoover to
intercede publicly, arguing that J.P. Morgan & Co. was reprising its role of 1914.
Eaton was shocked that the White House “should countenance such a complete
Page 518
Page 518
domination of the American economy.”110 Hoover did nothing, but Roosevelt
was not oblivious to the political dangers, consulting with Morgenthau about the
presence of men connected to J.P. Morgan & Co.111 As it transpired, like many
Roosevelt-era constructions, both the War Resources Board and the FRBNY
advisory committee were more impressive in the announcement than in the
operation.
War in Europe changed the relationship between the Morgan partners and
Britain and France, but not as critics like Eaton dreaded. While Jack Morgan
assured Chamberlain personally that the firm would do all that it could to aid
Britain, a message that was communicated in different form to France, the
partners set bounds. A cable to Morgan & Cie. on 1 September 1939, prior to the
French or British declaration of war, professed that J.P. Morgan & Co. would do
all that they could, “subject always of course to strict compliance with American
laws.” A more explicit treatment of what the Corner would do, would not do,
and might consider was advanced several days later to Dean Jay. The Morgan
partners were willing to help the French government undertake “mechanical
financial transactions” of specific kinds, such as acting as paying agents for the
French government on purchases made, including keeping the books on these
transactions; if Paris decided to requisition French citizens’ holdings of US
securities, the Morgan firm would bundle them together and would conduct the
sale; the partners were willing to assist France in vetting American business that
they might be contemplating. Functionally this meant providing credit reports on
American companies. Noteworthy was what the Corner would not do: J.P.
Morgan & Co. would not handle foreign exchange as the respective treasuries –
American, British, French – “are happily cooperating in complete harmony”;
nor would they act as purchasing agents, a major distinction from 1914–17
practice. The Morgan advice was that it would be wiser if the French
Page 519
Page 519
government set up its own purchasing commission. If, however, Paris decided
against this advice, the partners confirmed they would be prepared to discuss
acting as purchasing agents but wanted this possibility kept secret. The past,
mixed with the controversies of the 1930s and an understanding of the political
climate, was at work. The partners did not wish to be at the forefront of a
concerted Allied economic effort in the United States. As the Morgan partners
told Jay, “our own attitude is bound to be one that considers primarily the
interests of our own country, those interests we believe lying first in complete
access to the American markets on the part of the Allied Governments which are
both cash purchasers.” This was an accurate, if parochial, statement of Morgan
intent. While there was never any desire on the part of the partners to hide their
sympathies – this was impossible given J.P. Morgan & Co.’s identification with
Britain and France – and the partners flocked to organizations that sponsored
Anglo-French assistance, much had changed.112 It was men such as Eaton who
worried about the clock turning back twenty-five years; the Morgan partners
knew that time had moved on.
This was apparent in Lamont’s November 1939 speech to the Academy of
Political Science, “American Business in War and Peace.” Speaking once more
at the Hotel Astor, Lamont argued that American business had three objectives:
to stay out of “armed conflict”; to help the democracies to buy what they needed
in the United States; and “to make our country’s economic and financial strength
impregnable, so that finally America may be in a position to render sound and
wise co-operation towards an enduring Peace.” This, he asserted, was the
program of 95 per cent of American business. It was the Morgan program, but
whether it was the program of American business was less certain. Barron’s had
editorialized on 4 September 1939, “Why and How We Can Stay Out of War,” a
pithy statement that was perhaps a more accurate reflection of where the
Page 520
Page 520
business community stood. Appropriating the mantle of spokesman for
American business was audacious, for the Morgan voice was not what it had
been. A variety of observers had noted this development. Not all were hostile to
J.P. Morgan & Co. Some, such as Randolph Phillips in The Nation or Stuart
Chase in Harpers, were antagonists. Allen, whose appreciation of the Corner
was agnostic, wondered in Since Yesterday, his retrospective look at the 1930s, if
“perhaps the palmy days of the Wall Street bankers were over.” Morgan
admirers admitted that the firm’s standing was not what it had been. Bell’s 1938
essay, “The Decline of the Money Barons,” made this plain. Forbes remarked
that the days when a partnership in J.P. Morgan & Co. was the “blue ribbon” the
Street aspired to had passed, while Fortune confided that, though respect
remained, the firm’s influence had “waned.”113 Business opinion on war was in
truth fractured, running the gamut from interventionists to the America First
Committee in the shape of men such as General Robert E. Wood of Sears
Roebuck.
Lamont may have overreached in claiming to speak for American business,
but he described where the Morgan partners stood in relation to the Roosevelt
administration’s foreign policy. As the president manoeuvred to defang the
Neutrality Act, the Morgan partners were with him. Not all in the administration
welcomed their presence. Berle, whose mistrust of Britain ran deep, recorded on
30 September that:
Steve Early, through T.W. Lamont, arranged to get Alfred E. Smith to make
a campaign speech in favor of revision of the Neutrality Act. I finished up
the negotiations with Lamont, and Al Smith goes forward. Lamont was
likewise working to get President Conant, of Harvard, to make a similar
speech. This is all very well as far as it goes, but it has a terribly suspicious
ring about it. It was the Morgans, the Harvard New Englanders and the like
Page 521
Page 521
who really influenced our entry into war in 1917; and now, in an endeavor
to get our Neutrality Act in shape, we suddenly find ourselves relying on
the same group. I am not too happy about this. Our policy is not to get into
this, but to stay out; to have a true neutrality.114
Working primarily through General Edwin “Pa” Watson at the White House,
Lamont threw himself into the Roosevelt cause. He suggested the names of
individuals whose stature might help, he prompted men such as Stimson to
weigh in on the public debate, and he lobbied senators. Early in 1940 Lamont
and Roosevelt discussed which members of Congress might be persuaded to
back the president and whether or not a committee should be constituted to aid
the Finns or whether White should be approached to head a committee to aid the
Allies.115 Lamont became, as Langer and Gleason remarked long ago, “one of
the most loyal supporters of the President’s foreign policy.” This was genuine
but was not always congruent with Roosevelt’s intentions. A good example was
the Neutrality legislation. Lamont wanted immediate repeal of the Neutrality Act
in toto, but Roosevelt understood that this was impractical after his embarrassing
political setback in the spring of 1939 to expand the notion of cash and carry to
arms sales was rebuffed by Congress. The modification of the Neutrality Act that
the president secured in November 1939, permitting cash and carry to include
arms sales, was as far as the politics allowed. Lamont and his partners hoped that
the Johnson Act would be cast aside, another goal that the president shared but
that he knew could not be achieved.116
*****
The Morgan rapprochement with Roosevelt should not be misinterpreted. In the
debate that was underway in the United States that lasted until Pearl Harbor, the
Morgan partners were “conservative internationalists,” seeking the maximum
Page 522
Page 522
American aid to Britain and France, after June 1940 to Britain alone, but no
more.117 Although they supported the president’s foreign policy, this did not
mean they wished to see him serve a third term. His domestic policies continued
to be a source of consternation, albeit from September 1939 Morgan
commentary shifted to a less hostile tone. Leffingwell forwarded suggestions for
an overhaul of tax policy to John W. Hanes, a Morgan friend, at the Treasury in
the fall of 1939 that conceded the legitimacy of some of the New Deal
changes.118 The Morgan appearance before the TNEC in December 1939 was
unremarked, its most notable quality being Leffingwell’s assured testimony that
charmed his interlocutors. Behind the artificial bonhomie of the late New Deal in
decline was not just the war but a conflicted J.P. Morgan & Co. The partners –
save Leffingwell – were steadfast that Roosevelt’s presidency had damaged
American capitalism, if not irreparably, then enough to raise the prospect of a
bastardized capitalism with a dictator at the helm. With Hitler and Stalin in view,
this was less of a mirage than it appears today. War amplified Morgan
uneasiness. Its advent might result in greater power in Roosevelt’s hands, as
Lamont told Smuts in February 1940. War might end in “Hitlerizing
America.”119 From the vantage of the Corner, this was an appalling prospect
whose possibility had been glimpsed in the queasy White House response to the
1937–38 recession. The Morgan partners did not have to look far to see the
damage that had been done – all they had to do was to scan their balance sheet.
Safety from what they thought was likely to be buffeting in the years to come
was to be found in incorporation. The price was forfeiture of their culture as
private merchant bankers.
1 Two long-time staff members, Keyes and John E. Meyer Jr., were also
named vice-presidents. The bank had a complement of 33 executives and 623
staff. Lamont, The Ambassador, p. 450.
Page 523
Page 523
2 Alan Brinkley, The End of Reform: New Deal Liberalism in Recession and
War, New York: Vintage Books, 1996.
3 Richard Moe, Roosevelt’s Second Act: The Election of 1940 and the Politics
of War, New York: Oxford University Press, 2013, is a recent treatment.
4 R.A.C. Parker, Chamberlain and Appeasement: British policy and the
Coming of the Second World War, New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1993, pp.
115–18; C.A. Macdonald, The United States, Britain and Appeasement
1936–1939, New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1981, pp. 74–75.
5 Brinkley, The End of Reform, pp. 23–105, is the best account.
6 Meltzer, History of the Federal Reserve, pp. 492–95; Blum, From the
Morgenthau Diaries, pp. 354–55.
7 Leffingwell to Parker Gilbert, 6 November 1935, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box
3, Folder 63.
8 “Grave Problem Seen by Aldrich in Huge Reserves,” Wall Street Journal, 12
December 1935, p. 1.
9 Henry Morgenthau Jr., 12 December 1935, FDRPL, Henry Morgenthau
Diaries, 13/295.
10 Quoted in Nelson, Jumping the Abyss, p. 277.
11 Eccles, Beckoning Frontiers, pp. 287–95. Economists have not reached a
consensus on monetary policy, the change in excess reserve requirements, and
the origins of the 1937–38 recession. The most detailed reconstruction, by
Kenneth Roose, is cautious. He acknowledges the difficulty of establishing a
causal link, before concluding that increasing reserve requirements was a
factor albeit not the most important. Kenneth D. Roose, The Economics of
Page 524
Page 524
Recession and Revival: An Interpretation of 1937–38, New Haven, CT: Yale
University Press, 1954, p. 7 and pp. 238–39. François R. Velde, “The
Recession of 1937: A cautionary tale,” Economic Perspectives (Federal
Reserve Bank of Chicago), vol. 33, no. 4 (2009), p. 23, lists economists who
have argued that increasing excess reserves had no causal effect on 1937–38,
before concluding, on p. 33, that it did in conjunction with gold sterilization.
12 Henry Morgenthau Jr., 21 May 1937, FDRPL, Henry Morgenthau Diaries,
69/187, recording dinner on 20 May 1937 with Leffingwell and Parker Gilbert
during which the Morgan partners urged ending sterilization. On sterilization’s
adoption, see Meltzer, A History of the Federal Reserve, pp. 504–7.
13 Decades ago, E. Cary Brown, “Fiscal Policy in the Thirties: A
Reappraisal,” American Economic Review, vol. 46 (1956), pointed out the
modesty of New Deal fiscal action.
14 The New York Times carried Jack Morgan’s remarks on 5 February 1936, p.
12, under the heading “Morgan Calls Our Leisure Class Vital; They Are
Those Who Can Afford a Maid”; Leffingwell to Lippmann, 9 March 1936,
YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 5/111; Leffingwell to Roosevelt, 1 September 1936,
FDRPL, FDR papers, PPF, 866.
15 Kennedy, Freedom from Fear, pp. 355–56.
16 Blum, From the Morgenthau Diaries, p. 395; the New York Times ran its
report on the meeting on page one. “Tax Aid Is Pledged,” The New York
Times, 11 November 1937, p. 1.
17 George Harrison, 12 November 1937, FRBNY, Harrison papers, 2610.1,
Conversations with partners of J.P. Morgan & Co; Leffingwell to Morgenthau,
22 November 1937, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 6, Folder 128.
Page 525
Page 525
18 Morgenthau had broached the issue of government financing with Parker
Gilbert in September 1937. Henry Morgenthau Jr., 30 September 1937,
FDRPL, Henry Morgenthau diaries, 90/195; Henry Morgenthau Jr., 1
December 1937, FDRPL, Henry Morgenthau diaries, 100/110.
19 “Trimble lays U.S. Depression to Bank Clique,” The Washington Post, 21
February 1936, p. 6.
20 Junius Morgan to Jack Morgan, 25 September 1936, TML, JPM, Box 100,
Folder 260.
21 Anderson to Lamont, 23 June 1936, TML, MBEP, Box 25, Arthur M.
Anderson.
22 Junius Morgan to Jack Morgan, 25 September 1936, TML, JPM, Box 100,
Folder 260; Lamont to Leffingwell, 14 October 1936, BL, TWL, Series II,
Box 103, Folder 20.
23 “MOP and Morgan Relations Studied,” Wall Street Journal, 19 December
1936, p. 6.
24 Wheeler Committee, 17 and 18 December 1936 and Part 6, March 3, 4 and
5, 1937. The Hathi Digital Trust library has the full hearings:
https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?
id=umn.31951d03505331k&view=1up&seq=4&skin=2021.
25 Kennedy, Freedom from Fear, pp. 333–34; Lamont to North Duane, 11
March 1937, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 92, Folder 12.
26 Frank R. Kent, “The Great Game of Politics,” Wall Street Journal, 18
March 1937, p. 4.
Page 526
Page 526
27 The Christian Science Monitor, for example, ran the headline, “Morgan
Defends Tax Dodging on Legal Grounds,” 8 June 1937, p. 1. Felix Frankfurter
drew Roosevelt’s attention directly to Jack Morgan’s remarks, Freedman,
Roosevelt and Frankfurter, p. 425. Helvering’s testimony before Congress
was reported on the front page of the New York Times on 25 June 1937, under
the byline “Tax Carved for 67 By Company Device and It’s All Legal.”
28 Leffingwell to Morgenthau, 8 June 1937, FDRPL, Henry Morgenthau
diaries, v. 72/237.
29 Leffingwell to Lippmann, 10 June 1937, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 5, Folder
111.
30 Walter Lippmann, “Government by Indignation,” New York Herald
Tribune, 5 June 1937, p. 13 A.
31 Franklyn Waltman, “Politics and People,” Washington Post, 12 June 1937,
p. 2. Waltman was a Republican and not impartial.
32 Jack Morgan to J.P. Morgan & Co., 26 October 1937, Parker Gilbert to Jack
Morgan, 26 October 1937, Jack Morgan to Morgan partners, 27 October 1937,
TML, MBEP, Box 24, Folder 8.
33 Lamont to Dawes, 27 October 1937, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 90, Folder
12.
34 Anna Rochester, Rulers of America: A Study of Finance Capital, New
York: International Publishers, 1936. On Rochester, Julia M. Allen,
Passionate Commitments: The Lives of Anna Rochester and Grace Hutchins,
Albany: State University of New York Press, 2013. The comparison to
Lenin’s Imperialism is on pp. 182–83.
Page 527
Page 527
35 Herbert Agar and Allen Tate, Who Owns America? A New Declaration of
Independence, New York: Houghton Mifflin, 1936, p. ix.
36 Ferdinand Lundberg, America’s Sixty Families, New York: The Vanguard
Press, 1937. Among others Lundberg thanked Rochester in the
acknowledgements, p. vii. See pp. 4–5 for the argument regarding 1929–33.
37 Jackson spoke on radio on the Mutual Broadcasting System on 26
December 1937 and then to the American Political Science Association at
Philadelphia on 29 December. Ickes delivered a radio address on NBC radio
on 30 December 1937. Both men referenced Lundberg positively.
38 “Lamont Denies Capital Strike, Sees ‘Lock-Out’, New York Herald
Tribune, 18 January 1938, p. 1, which reprints the text of Lamont’s address.
39 “Leaders with a Program for National Recovery to See Roosevelt Today,”
New York Times, 14 January 1938, p. 1.
40 Lippmann, “Today and Tomorrow,” New York Herald Tribune, 6 January
1938, p. 17.
41 Berle, 16 December 1937, in Beatrice Bishop Berle and Travis Beal Jacobs,
eds., Navigating the Rapids, 1918–1971: From the Papers of Adolf A. Berle,
New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1973, p. 153.
42 “Anthracite Coal Rule Laid to Morgan and Bank Allies,” New York Times,
25 October 1937, p. 1; W. Jett Lauck, “Morgan Aid is Demanded,” New York
Times, 29 October 1937, p. 7.
43 Louis Stark, “Lewis Opens Union Fight to Organize Steel Men; Ready for
Long Warfare,” New York Times, 7 July 1936, p. 1.
Page 528
Page 528
44 Franklin D. Roosevelt, “Address at the Jackson Day Dinner, Washington
D.C.,” 8 January 1938, The American Presidency Project,
www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/address-the-jackson-day-dinner-
washington-dc.
45 Berle, 31 January 1938, in Berle and Jacobs, Navigating the Rapids, pp.
161–62.
46 Jack Morgan to Grenfell, 28 January 1938, TML, JPM, Box 26.
47 Lamont to Thomas R. Akin, 1 February 1938, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 80,
Folder 5. Akin was president of the Laclede Steel Company of St. Louis. He
complained about Lamont’s willingness to be involved with Lewis.
48 Leffingwell to Parker Gilbert and Lamont, 27 October 1937, YUL, RCL,
Series I, Box 3, Folder 63.
49 Lamont to Jack Morgan, 15 February 1938, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 108,
Folder 16; Lamont, Memorandum; Lamont to Roosevelt, 16 February 1938,
BL, TWL, Series II, Box 128, Folder 2; Lamont to Roosevelt, 25 February
1938, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 127, Folder 43; Roosevelt to Morgenthau,
FDRPL, PSF, Box 141, Lamont, Thomas W; Lamont to Krock, 18 March
1938, Lamont to Noyes, 16 May 1938, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 128, Folder
3.
50 Volume 2 of the SEC hearings, which contains the complete transcript of
the Richard Whitney affair, may be found at:
https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?
id=osu.32435021601497&view=1up&seq=825&q1=841. George Whitney’s
testimony on 19 April 1938, pp. 521–27, lays out his lending to his brother
and borrowing from Lamont; George Harrison, memorandum of conversation
with Charles R. Gay, 9 March 1938, FRBNY, Harrison papers, 2680.0.
Page 529
Page 529
51 Bartow, 20 April 1938, pp. 591–93, of the SEC hearings:
https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?
id=osu.32435021601497&view=1up&seq=825&q1=841.
52 Brooks, Once in Golconda; Malcolm MacKay, Impeccable Connections:
The Rise and Fall of Richard Whitney, New York: Brick Tower Press, 2011, is
much slighter. John Steele Gordon, The Great Game: The Emergence of Wall
Street As a World Power, 1653–2000, New York: Touchstone, 2000, p. 248 is
an example. The most serious academic account is Joel Seligman, The
Transformation of Wall Street: A History of the Securities and Exchange
Commission and Modern Corporate Finance, Boston, Houghton Mifflin,
1982, pp. 167–79.
53 Thomas S. Lamont to Lamont, 28 April 1938, BL, TWL, Series II, Box
103, Folder 21.
54 Wasson to Lamont, 24 March 1938, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 136, Folder
19.
55 Florence Corliss Lamont to Thomas S. Lamont, undated, Smith College,
Lamont-Corliss Family Papers, Box 5, Folder 7, March 1938.
56 Seligman, The Transformation of Wall Street, pp. 171–73.
57 Lamont to Lord Cecil, 31 May 1938, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 87, Folder 3.
58 Roosevelt to Lamont, 25 June 1938, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 127, Folder
22.
59 Some indication of Morgan involvement in U.S. Steel is furnished by an
unusual internal memorandum composed by Lamont. It discusses a range of
issues revealing deep familiarity with the company. Lamont memorandum, 25
September 1935, BL, TWL, Series VI, Box 226, Folder 32.
Page 530
Page 530
60 Lamont to George Whitney, 27 October 1937, BL, TWL, Series II, Box
137, Folder 13.
61 “The Corporation,” Fortune, vol. 13, no. 3, March 1936, pp. 59, 63.
62 Jane Karoline Veith, “Joseph P. Kennedy and British Appeasement: The
Diplomacy of a Boston Irishman,” in Kenneth Paul Jones, ed., U.S. Diplomats
in Europe, 1919–1941, Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-CLIO, 1983.
63 Nicholas Wapshott, The Sphinx: Franklin Roosevelt, the Isolationists, and
the Road to World War II, New York: W.W. Norton, 2015, p. 34.
64 Krock laid out this conversation in his Memoirs, New York: Funk &
Wagnalls, 1968, pp. 187–88. The version in the Krock papers at Princeton is
fuller. Arthur Krock, memorandum, 27 June 1938, Princeton, Arthur Krock
papers, Appendix, Book I 1928–1948. The question, of course, is Krock
reliable given his animus toward Roosevelt? Roosevelt wrote Lamont;
Lamont did meet with Kennedy, as Krock describes, and the subject was U.S.
Steel. From letters that Lamont wrote subsequently to Jan Christian Smuts and
to Rodd of Morgan Grenfell, his unease with the Kennedy conversations is
manifest. On balance I am inclined to think that Krock is conveying the
Lamont–Kennedy talks accurately.
65 Lamont to Roosevelt, 30 June 1938, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 127, Folder
22; Lamont to Jan Christian Smuts, 29 June 1938, BL, TWL, Series II, Box
131, Folder 2; Lamont to Joseph Kennedy, 30 June 1938, BL, TWL, Series II,
Box 101, Folder 9.
66 Junius Morgan to Jack Morgan, 7 July 1938, Jack Morgan to Junius
Morgan, 8 July 1938, Stettinius to Jack Morgan, 27 July 1938, TML, JPM,
Box 40.
67 Lamont to Smuts, 29 June 1938, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 131/2.
Page 531
Page 531
68 Lamont to Rodd, 14 September 1938, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 112, Folder
10.
69 Wilson, The Chase, p. 17.
70 For the results for the Bank of Manhattan, see “Year End Reports,” New
York Times, 3 January 1940, p. 27.
71 In testimony to the SEC in May 1938, Junius Morgan detailed the figures
associated with Morgan buying and selling, pp. 848–49, while Jack Morgan
laid out the commission structure, p. 849. Lamont’s remarks were made on 26
April 1938, p. 726. See note 50 in this chapter for bibliographic details to the
hearing transcript.
72 Lamont to Dean Jay, 26 December 1939, NDJ papers, Knox College.
73 See Appendix 3.
74 Jack Morgan to Grenfell, 28 January 1938, TML, JPM, Box 26; Lamont to
Taylor, 20 January 1939, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 133, Folder 7.
75 The phrase “Great Contraction” was a chapter title of Friedman and
Schwartz’s Monetary History of the United States.
76 TML, CP, Box 13, Bartow, Francis D.
77 Lamont to George Whitney, 12 May 1936, TML, Pierpont Morgan papers,
Box 3, Folder 2.
78 Florence Lamont to Thomas S. Lamont, 7 March 1938, Smith College,
Lamont-Corliss Family Papers, Box 5, Folder 7.
79 Lamont diary, 24 April 1937, BL, TWL, Series IV B, Box 173, Folder 9.
Page 532
Page 532
80 Leffingwell to Ernst, 26 December 1946, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 2,
Folder 36.
81 Jack Morgan to Grenfell, (Lord St. Just), 2 February 1939, TML, JPM, Box
27.
82 Lamont to Dean Jay, 26 December 1939, KC, NDJ; Lamont to Dean Jay, 1
February 1940, KC, NDJ; Jack Morgan to Grenfell and V.H. Smith, 19 March
1940, TML, JPM, Box 27; on the Trust department, Hinton and Longstreet,
“Some Comments,” pp. 46–54.
83 See Appendix 4.
84 Robert Crowcroft, The End Is Nigh: British Politics, Power and the Road of
the Second World War, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2019, is a recent
addition to a crowded field; on France, see Philip Nord, France 1940:
Defending the Republic, New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2015, pp.
3–57; Talbot C. Imlay, Facing the Second World War: Strategy, Politics and
Economics in Britain and France 1938–1940, Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2003, is a comparative study.
85 The classic account is Robert Frankenstein, Le Prix du réarmement français
(1935–1939), Paris: Publications de la Sorbonne, 1982.
86 Blumenthal, Illusion and Reality, pp. 222–52; William Keylor, “France and
the Illusion of American Support, 1919–1940,” in Joel Blatt ed., The French
Defeat of 1940: Reassessments, Providence, RI: Berghahn Books, 1998, pp.
222–44.
87 Henry Morgenthau Jr., 6 March 1937, FDRPL, Henry Morgenthau Diaries,
58/157-8.
88 Horn, “J.P. Morgan & Co., the House of Morgan,” p. 534.
Page 533
Page 533
89 “Failure of French to Finance Loan in U.S. Proves Bomb,” Christian
Science Monitor, 9 March 1937, p. 2; “House of Morgan Is Barred from
Floating French Loan,” The Washington Post, 9 March 1937, p. 1; “Treasury
Objects to Naming French Fiscal Agent Here,” Wall Street Journal, 9 March
1937; “New York Agency Dropped,” New York Times, 10 March 1937, p. 9;
Leffingwell to Morgenthau, 10 March 1937, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 103,
Folder 20.
90 Herrick Chapman, State Capitalism and Working Class Radicalism in the
French Aircraft Industry, Berkeley: University of California Press, 1991; Peter
Jackson, France and the Nazi Menace: Intelligence and Policy Making,
1933–1939, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2000; Martin Thomas, “France
and the Czechoslovak Crisis,” Diplomacy and Statecraft, vol. 10, no. 2
(1999), pp. 122–59.
91 The negotiations, with the cables between Morgan & Cie. and J.P. Morgan
& Co., may be tracked in TML, MBEP, Box 19, Cables sent, 2 May to 30
September 1938. They open on 11 May 1938 and are wrapped up on 24 June
1938. The orders for the presses and locomotives follow in September and
October.
92 Dallek, Franklin D. Roosevelt and American Foreign Policy, pp. 172–75.
John McVicar Haight Jr., American Aid to France 1938–40, New York:
Atheneum, 1970, is the best study.
93 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan & Cie., 6 February 1939, TML, MBEP, Box
20, cables received 3 October 1938 to 31 March 1939.
94 J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan & Cie. and Lamont, 24 June 1939, Morgan &
Cie. to J.P. Morgan & Co., 26 June 1939, J.P. Morgan & Co. to Morgan &
Cie., 28 June 1939, Morgan & Cie. to J.P. Morgan & Co., 30 June 1939, TML,
MBEP, Box 20, Cables rec’d, 1 April to 28 September 1939.
Page 534
Page 534
95 David Reynolds, The Creation of the Anglo-American Alliance,
1937–1941: A Study in Competitive Cooperation, Chapel Hill, NC: University
of North Carolina, 1981, is fundamental.
96 Norman diary, 26 July 1939, BE, ADM 34/28.
97 Lamont to Dorothy Thompson, 3 March 1938, BL, TWL, Series II, Box
133, Folder 18; Waldorf Astor to TWL, 5 April 1938, BL, TWL, Series II,
Box 82, Folder 5; Lamont to Lord Cecil, 31 May 1938, BL, TWL, Series II,
Box 87, Folder 3; Lamont to Fummi, 28 March 1938, BL, TWL, Series IV D,
Box 191, Folder 7; Lamont to Jan Christian Smuts, 26 November 1938, BL,
TWL, Series II, Box 131, Folder 2.
98 Jack Morgan to Chamberlain, 30 September 1938, TML, JPM, Box 30,
Neville Chamberlain.
99 Leffingwell to Lamont, 30 September 1938, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4,
Folder 97; Leffingwell to Lamont, 3 October 1938, BL, TWL, Series IV B,
Box 173, Folder 36. The Maisky diaries are illuminating. Gabriel Gorodetsky,
ed., The Maisky Diaries: Red Ambassador to the Court of St. James,
1932–1943, New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2015.
100 Jack Morgan to Lamont, 5 October 1938, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 108,
Folder 16.
101 Leffingwell to Lamont, 7 April 1939, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 4, Folder
97.
102 William R. Rock, Chamberlain and Roosevelt: British Foreign Policy and
the United States, 1937–1940, Columbus, OH: Ohio State University Press,
1988.
Page 535
Page 535
103 Donald Watt, “Roosevelt and Chamberlain: Two Appeasers,”
International Journal, vol. 28, no. 2 (1973), pp. 185, 187.
104 Lamont to Sybil Colefax, 3 February 1938, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 88,
Folder 2.
105 Henry M. Kannee to Roosevelt, 28 September 1938, FDRPL, FDR papers,
PPF/70, relaying a note from Lamont. Barbara Rearden Farnham, Roosevelt
and the Munich Crisis, Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1997, is the
most detailed study.
106 Justus D. Doenecke, “U.S. Policy and the European War, 1939–41,”
Diplomatic History, vol. 19, no. 4 (1995), is a historiographical treatment.
More recent work from different perspectives include Blower, “From
Isolationism to Neutrality” and David Kaiser, No End Save Victory, New
York: Basic Books, 2014, pp. 19–56.
107 Leffingwell to Partners, 28 April 1939, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 8, Folder
176, a seven-page memorandum on the Neutrality Acts and Johnston Act is a
pithy statement of the Morgan view.
108 Lamont to North Duane, 3 August 1939, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 92,
Folder 13.
109 Jack Morgan to John W. Davis, 2 November 1938, TML, JPM, Box 40.
110 Cyrus S. Eaton to Hoover, 30 August 1939, 1 September 1939, HHPL,
PPICF, Box 52, Eaton, Cyrus S. Correspondence 1938–43.
111 Roosevelt to Morgenthau, 7 September 1939, FDRPL, Henry Morgenthau
diaries, 210/11-12.
Page 536
Page 536
112 Nicholas Cull, Selling War: The British Propaganda Campaign Against
American “Neutrality” in World War II, New York: Oxford University Press,
1995, pp. 62–63.
113 Chase, “Capital Not Wanted” and “Shadow over Wall Street,” in Harpers
Magazine, vol. 180, February 1940, pp. 228–34 and March 1940, pp. 367–74;
Randolph Phillips, The Nation, vol. 148, nos. 24 and 25, 10 June and 17 June
1939, pp. 663–67 and pp. 696–700; “A Baedeker of Business,” Fortune, vol.
20, no. 1, July 1939, p. 187; the comment is in the regular column, “Close
Ups of High Ups,” Forbes, vol. 43, no. 4, 15 February 1939, p. 32; Frederick
Lewis Allen, Since Yesterday, New York: Harper and Brothers, 1940, p. 337.
114 Berle diary, 30 September 1939, Berle and Jacobs, Navigating the Rapids,
p. 259.
115 E.T. Sanders to Lamont, 14 September 1939, BL, TWL, Series II, Box
127, Folder 23; Folder 24 in the same series and box contains the back and
forth between the White House and Lamont in early 1940.
116 William L. Langer and S. Everett Gleason, The Challenge to Isolation,
1937–1940, New York: Harper Brothers, 1952, pp. 221–22. The Johnson Act
was never repealed.
117 Lise A. Namikas, “The Committee to Defend America and the Debate
between Internationalists and Interventionists, 1939–1941,” The Historian,
vol. 61, no. 4 (1999), p. 847.
118 Leffingwell to John W. Hanes, 11 October 1939, Hanes to Leffingwell, 13
October 1939, Leffingwell to Hanes, 31 October 1939, YUL, RCL, Series I,
Box 1, Folder 1.
Page 537
Page 537
119 Lamont to Smuts, 16 February 1940, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 131, Folder
3.
Page 538
Page 538
Conclusion
◈
Eight days after J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc. began business, the Phony War in
Europe ended. On 9 April 1940 the Wehrmacht invaded Denmark and Norway,
setting in train a series of events that culminated with an assault on the Low
Countries and France. The Fall of France in May and June altered the nature of
World War II, leading Hitler, convinced more than ever of his own genius, to
order planning to begin for the invasion of the Soviet Union while a recalcitrant
Britain was attacked from the air.1 The repercussions of French defeat were
apparent in the United States. Whether Roosevelt had already made the decision
to stand for a third term or not, his choice to do so was justified by the Allied
catastrophe in 1940. Roosevelt forwarded plans for a massive expansion of
American military capabilities, an action that intensified the debate in the United
States over the war. For J.P. Morgan & Co., the French capitulation weighed
heavily. Worries about the fate of their partners and staff in France preoccupied
them and the New York firm made frantic efforts to determine the whereabouts
of those who had been displaced. Once the armistice was signed and it became
apparent that the war would be ongoing, Morgan & Cie. continued to operate,
albeit in a much-modified fashion. The French collapse strengthened Morgan
sympathies for a beleaguered Britain. Fundamentally, though, the Morgan
attitude toward the war did not change. Even after June 1940 J.P. Morgan & Co.
Page 539
Page 539
was not in favour of American belligerency on behalf of an isolated British
Empire.
As had been the case for months, this reticence was not recognized beyond
the Corner. Instead, the emergence of Wendell Willkie as the Republican
nominee and the Morgan role therein attracted attention, with commentators
drawing connections between Willkie’s experience as a utility executive with
Commonwealth & Southern and J.P. Morgan & Co. Lamont was active in raising
support for Willkie, but much of Willkie’s attraction for the Morgan partners lay
in the similarity of his foreign policy to the president’s, in contradistinction to
the views articulated by other Republican contenders, such as Senator Robert A.
Taft of Ohio and Thomas E. Dewey of New York. Roosevelt’s re-election did not
dampen disquiet about Morgan influence or suspicion that the Corner was
inveigling American participation. Hugh S. Johnson, one of Roosevelt’s
collaborators in the early days of the New Deal, now a columnist for the Hearst
newspaper chain where his isolationist inclinations were allowed full rein, wrote
in January 1941, “The House of Morgan – at least as represented by Mr. Thomas
W. Lamont – and other great international bankers are as active in guiding and
propelling our steps toward involvement in this war as they were in 1917.” An
editorial in Colonel Robert McCormick’s Chicago Tribune, the standard-bearer
of isolationism in the Midwest, evoked familiar demons: “Mr. Roosevelt and his
Royalists,” decrying William Allen White’s Committee to Defend America by
Aiding the Allies. The editorial targeted J.P. Morgan & Co. specifically, leading
to agitated letters addressed to Jack Morgan. Others, less alarmed, were
dismissive. Hamilton Fish Armstrong recorded a conversation with Willkie at a
dinner party early in 1941. Present was Roy Howard of the Scripps-Howard
newspaper chain: “Howard said to Willkie that he was going to show up his
‘Morgan friends,’ which Willkie said was silly, as he wasn’t under any
Page 540
Page 540
obligations to the Morgan people, and as they had practically no influence in the
country any more anyway.”2
Willkie was disingenuous, but such a judgement would have been
inconceivable in 1929. J.P. Morgan & Co. was of less import in 1941, though
more than Willkie credited. Some of the decline in Morgan influence was due to
the changes that had occurred to American finance in the 1930s. The
peculiarities of the American financial system, with its myriad undercapitalized
banks and dual charters, mixed with the vulnerabilities of the Federal Reserve
system, combined with the Depression to plunge American banking into a near
existential crisis. The whirlwind swept through American banking between 1929
and 1933. After 1933 American banking stabilized, as the New Deal managed to
preserve the banking system through judicious reforms, aided by the infusion of
cash via the RFC that allowed a chastened, more regulated sector to survive. J.P.
Morgan & Co. was not immune to the Depression’s havoc – the effect of two
compressed blows to the Morgan balance sheet in the last quarter of 1931 and
the first quarter of 1933 inflicted permanent damage on the Morgan bank. Well
before Glass–Steagall, the investment side of J.P. Morgan & Co.’s business had
been crippled. Private merchant bankers are conservative by nature, protecting
their unlimited liability. J.P. Morgan & Co. retreated into indecision. Forming
Morgan Stanley was not a decision; it was a stopgap driven by the hope for a
change in the government that did not occur. From 1936 onward the J.P. Morgan
& Co. banking business was sclerotic as its senior partners recognized. Steele’s
death in 1939 was the excuse to discard a business model that was no longer
functioning, rather than the reason for it. Roosevelt’s victory in the 1940
presidential election was, if not unexpected, definitive. J.P. Morgan & Co.
divorced itself formally from Morgan Stanley, selling off its shares and leaving
the partners to do as they wished with their individual holdings. There would be
Page 541
Page 541
no return – at least not for decades – to investment banking for J.P. Morgan &
Co. Grenfell wrote an elegiacal letter to Lamont mourning the ending of the
ancien régime with the abandonment of the partnership: “the days of private
banking houses do seem to be passing as senior partners pass away from natural
causes.”3 In 1940, after the Morgan conversion, no private bank of consequence
remained in the United States. Longer term, Grenfell was wrong. Private
banking made a comeback but did so in a different context in the decades after
the 1960s. Not even Glass–Steagall lasted, to the regret of many and the
rejoicing of others.
Between 1929 and 1940, while Morgan influence eroded, the Morgan
partners were active in confronting the crisis of capitalism. Born of their past
history, their ties to London and Paris, and their prominence, the Morgan bank
was looked to for guidance. The partners did not realize what was happening
until well into 1930, focused as they were on the Young Plan and the BIS. The
Crash was in their estimation a transitory phenomenon. Leffingwell appreciated
sooner than his partners the danger. In 1930–31 J.P. Morgan & Co. attempted to
act as a lender of last resort for private firms, understanding that the wider
responsibility for the health of the American financial system lay with the
Federal Reserve. That Morgan effort was modest, selective, and short-lived. It
came to a close as the year 1931 ended. The Morgan partners, led by
Leffingwell, Parker Gilbert, and Lamont, tried to turn Hoover to a course that
they thought wise. Affinity existed between the partners and the president as
Hoover came increasingly to see the Depression as in international phenomenon
imported to the United States. With their shared conviction that the debacle was
an outgrowth of World War I and the internationalist orientation, it might be
thought that the White House and the Corner would work together. They did not.
Leffingwell and Parker Gilbert were contemptuous of Hoover, insistent that he
Page 542
Page 542
needed to do more to combat deflation; for his part, the president resented what
he perceived as the tone-deaf urgings of Wall Street bankers, chief among them
J.P. Morgan & Co. Neither had a remedy for the Depression. Nevertheless, in
searching for reasons as to why the American response to the Depression was so
unsatisfactory between 1929 and 1933, attention should be paid to how conflict
between Hoover and the Corner contributed to the incoherence.
After March 1933 and the advent of the New Deal, the American landscape
was transformed, less in truth economically than politically. The partners
welcomed the new president and signalled clearly that they did so with their
emphatic public support of his repudiation of the gold standard, a position that
the partners had moved to quietly earlier. Leffingwell and Parker Gilbert had
come to the view that the gold standard was inimical to American capitalism and
must be jettisoned. Unlike many in the American financial and business worlds,
the Morgan partners did not distance themselves from Roosevelt’s White House
as the New Deal progressed between 1933 and 1936. Pecora and Glass–Steagall
were resented bitterly, and the Morgan partners bent their energies to obtaining
modification or repeal of the latter, in the process becoming fixated on their
business crisis at the cost of seeking solutions to the crisis of capitalism.
Undoubtedly Glass–Steagall engendered in Jack Morgan, Whitney, and other
partners a dislike of Roosevelt that once established was never removed. The
growth of this disdain did not embody Morgan attitude in toto. Lamont, whose
diplomatic temperament meant he concealed his doubts about the president,
favoured a discreet course. More consequential were Leffingwell and Parker
Gilbert, the bank’s economists, both of whom were partisans of Roosevelt. They
backed the New Deal and maintained links to men such as Morgenthau. If
scholars have wondered why J.P. Morgan & Co. did not side with those attacking
the Roosevelt administration, it had as much to do with the internal division
among the partners on the New Deal as it did with their aversion to open
Page 543
Page 543
political identification. Morgan efforts to cooperate with the administration on
the domestic economic front were arguably most salient in 1937–38 when the
weakness of the Roosevelt administration engendered by the self-inflicted
political damage of the Supreme Court packing case overlapped with economic
contraction to render the White House vulnerable. The outcome was nugatory,
for Roosevelt’s interest in accommodation with J.P. Morgan & Co. receded as
the 1938 elections neared and international tensions grew.
From the mid-1930s onward, as the threat arising from Berlin, Rome, and
Tokyo became more exposed, there emerged a rapprochement between J.P.
Morgan & Co. and the Roosevelt administration. This was not a coming together
of equals; the White House led and the Morgan partners followed. However, the
mistaken Morgan analysis of what was driving the revisionist challengers did not
help Roosevelt and the State department see with clarity. This criticism, of
course, has been made much more generally. A failure to realize the radicalism
inherent in Berlin in particular was one of the mistakes many made when
contemplating the Nazi regime. It was the discontented, the extremists in the
United States and elsewhere, who best understood the true nature of Nazism in
power. For the Morgan partners, their certainty that Schacht was a major player
proved illusory, rendering more difficult their efforts to maintain loan payments
on the Dawes and Young Plan loans. More serious because of the greater
Morgan heft with Italy and Japan was the manner in which the Corner
downplayed Rome’s ambitions and Tokyo’s desires. The Morgan view of Italy
conformed to Washington’s, at least before 1935 and Ethiopia, but even
thereafter Morgan policy was animated by a willingness to exculpate Rome’s
actions. It was only somewhat a question of finance; money mattered but the
business the bank did was more considerable with the Vatican than Mussolini’s
regime. Fummi’s representations were at work and there was the hope that
Page 544
Page 544
longer-term more meaningful business might be done. It helped too that London
wished to avoid alienating Il Duce. Japan was different. Lamont made Morgan
policy, aided by Egan. His perception, framed by a reliance on a conception of
Two Japans birthed in the immediate postwar years, was occluded from 1931 by
a mixture of prejudice against China and the murmurings of well-connected
liberal-minded friends in Japanese business and political circles. Lamont’s
gradual turn-away from a rote defence of Japanese actions was actuated by
mounting evidence of their aggression, the retirement of Egan, and the influence
of Nelson Johnson. On Japan, Lamont was ill-informed but his assessment was
not distant from that of the Roosevelt administration, as the similarities between
their October 1937 speeches demonstrated.
This theme – growing closeness between the Roosevelt administration and
J.P. Morgan & Co. on foreign policy – was amplified through the Neutrality
legislation, the Nye hearings, and the recourse in London and Paris to
appeasement. War frightened. It frightened the American people, the Morgan
partners, and the White House. Associated with the American entry into World
War I, proudly so, as Jack Morgan acknowledged, J.P. Morgan laboured under
the misapprehension that not only had it conspired to take the United States into
war in 1917 but it was manoeuvring to do so again. This charge was baseless.
That did not matter. What mattered was that it was believed, at least by enough
Americans for it to have traction. What was not realized, save for those who
were well informed, was that by 1938 any Morgan influence on the making of
American foreign policy was residual. In truth neither London nor Washington
paid attention to the Corner in 1938–39. Paris did, at least until the limitations of
Morgan willingness to assist it were illustrated graphically in the summer of
1939. After the outbreak of the European war in 1939, war brought the Morgan
partners, especially Lamont, even closer to Roosevelt. They helped him when
they could and supported his foreign policy loyally.
Page 545
Page 545
It has often been remarked how victory in World War II conveyed
legitimacy on the Soviet Union, enabling its continuation for decades after 1945.
Wartime triumph also aided capitalism, in particular American capitalism. Its
triumph against Nazism, against Fascism, and against Japanese imperialism was
a massive boost to its prestige. Capitalism and communism, endorsed by war,
were able to wage their Cold War in part because of what had transpired between
1939 and 1945. The war gave each renewed strength. Its effects on J.P. Morgan
& Co. were perhaps less than might be expected. Jack Morgan died in April
1943. When he did, with the war all-consuming, little notice was taken. This in
itself was a verdict on what had befallen the bank. War confirmed the Corner’s
relative diminution, but this was not exceptional – the growth of the state to
prosecute the greatest total war of the twentieth century diminished all else.
However, well before the arrival of the vaunted “dollar year men”
embodied the World War II marriage of state power and capitalist productivity in
the United States, a reckoning had transpired. The capitalist crisis of the 1930s
had impelled change, especially for the avatars of a discredited order. J.P.
Morgan & Co. was not responsible for the Depression but that mattered little;
they were believed to be culpable, and consequently were at fault. The Corner in
1940 was emblematic of how American capitalism changed. Financial capitalism
of Money Trust legend had passed into the mist. If 23 Wall Street was not the
“heart of contemporary capitalism” any longer, both capitalism and the Corner
had survived.
Among the many reasons for this mutual survival, one was articulated by
Leffingwell:
I believe that J.P. Morgan & Co. have stood for the best things in American
life, that they have been a constructive force, and that the reason why they
have had such influence as they have had is that people believe in them. I
Page 546
Page 546
think that that belief has been justified on the whole, and that though J.P.
Morgan & Co. are not infallible their influence by and large has been for
good in a world of free men.4
He went on to attack despotism in its Hitlerian and Stalinist forms. If the hubris
is palpable, the assumption of centrality to the American dream off-putting in its
arrogance, striking is the deep-seated approbation of American capitalism. It
might be thought that elites – and few were more elite than the Morgan partners
– should fight for the system that benefits them and nurtures them. That was not
always so in the interwar years. Morgan failings were real; their advice often
self-interested; their utterances too fixated on the health of the Corner. Yet J.P.
Morgan & Co. was faithful to an image of liberal, democratic capitalism. This
commitment to American capitalism through crisis was real and was more than
could be said of other capitalist elites in other countries during the Depression
decade. Unlike some, the Morgan partners did not lift their eyes worshipfully to
the rising star of authoritarianism.
1 David Reynolds, “1940: Fulcrum of the Twentieth Century?,” International
Affairs, vol. 66, no. 2 (1990), pp. 325–50.
2 Lamont to Hugh S. Johnson, 22 January 1941, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 100,
Folder 24; Mrs. Evelyn Phinney to Jack Morgan, 25 February 1941, BL,
TWL, Series II, Box 107, Folder 5; Hamilton Fish Armstrong, 16 January
1941, Princeton, Mudd Library, HFA papers, Series IV, Box 100/1941.
3 Grenfell to Lamont, 11 February 1940, BL, TWL, Series II, Box 112, Folder
1.
4 Leffingwell to Ernst, 29 February 1940, YUL, RCL, Series I, Box 2, Folder
36.
Page 547
Page 547
Appendices
Page 548
Page 548
Appendix I
J.P. Morgan & Co. & Drexel & Co. Consolidated Statement of Condition,
1927–32.
Source: Stock Exchange Practices Hearing, Part I, 23 May 1933. All figures
are in dollars.
Page 549
Page 549
Appendix II
J.P. Morgan & Co. & Drexel & Co. Condensed Statement of Condition, Selected
items, 1933–35.
Source: Deutsche Bank Morgan Grenfell Archives, Box 50596681, Folder
J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc. Morgan & Cie. balance sheets. All figures are in
dollars
Page 550
Page 550
Appendix III
J.P. Morgan & Co. & Drexel & Co. Condensed Statement of Condition, Selected
items, 1935–39.
Source: Deutsche Bank Morgan Grenfell Archives, Box 50596681, Folder
J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc. Morgan & Cie. balance sheets. All figures are in
dollars
Page 551
Page 551
Appendix IV
Distribution of partner shares in J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc., 29 March 1940.
Source: J. P. Morgan & Co., 29 March 1940, TML, Pierpont Morgan
papers, Box 6, Folder 3
Page 552
Page 552
Bibliography
Archival Sources
Arthur Krock papers, Princeton University Library
Bank of England Archives, Bank of England
Carter Glass MSS, University of Virginia Library
Center for Legislative Archives, National Archives, Washington, DC
Columbia Oral History Collection, Columbia University Library
Deutsche Bank Morgan Grenfell papers, Deutsche Bank Morgan Grenfell
London
Dwight W. Morrow MSS, Amherst College
Eugene E. Agger papers, Rutgers Special Collections and University
Archives
Foreign Office papers, The National Archives UK
Franklin D. Roosevelt papers, Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library
Frederick Lewis Allen papers, Library of Congress
George S. Messersmith papers, University of Delaware Library
Hamilton Fish Armstrong papers, Princeton University Library
Page 553
Page 553
Henry Morgenthau Jr. diaries, Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library
Herbert Feis papers, Library of Congress
Herbert Hoover papers, Herbert Hoover Presidential Library
J.P. Morgan Jr. papers, The Morgan Library
Lamont-Corliss Family papers, Smith College
Lord Reading papers, India Office Records, British Library
Lord Rennell of Rodd papers, Bodleian Library, Oxford University
Marriner S. Eccles papers, http://fraser.stlouisfed.org
Morgan Bank European and Argentinian papers, The Morgan Library
Morgan Grenfell MSS, Guildhall Library
Nelson Dean Jay papers, Knox College
Norman H. Davis papers, Library of Congress
Ogden L. Mills papers, Library of Congress
Owen D. Young MSS, St. Lawrence University Library
Pierpont Morgan papers, The Morgan Library
Russell C. Leffingwell MSS, Yale University Library
Stuart M. Crocker papers, Library of Congress
Thomas W. Lamont papers, Baker Library, Harvard University
Vincent Carosso papers, The Morgan Library
Walter Lippmann papers, Yale University Library
Page 554
Page 554
Published Documents
Banking and Monetary Statistics, 1914–1941. New York: Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System, 1943. https://fraser.stlouisfed.org
Budget of the United States Government. Washington, DC: Government Printing
Office 2020.
Bureau of the Census. Historical Statistics of the United States, Vol. 2: Colonial
Times to 1970. Washington, DC: Government Printing Office, 1975.
https://fraser.stlouisfed.org/author/united-states-bureau-census#237
Office of the Historian. Foreign Relations of the United States. Washington, DC:
Government Printing Office. https://history.state.gov/historicaldocuments
Historical Statistics of the United States, Vol. 2: Colonial Times to 1970. United
States Bureau of the Census, Series X 510–15, p. 1006,
https://fraser.stlouisfed.org/title/historical-statistics-united-states-237/volume-2-
5808.
Investigation of Railroads, Holding Companies, and Affiliated Companies
[Wheeler Committee]. Subcommittee of the United States Senate Committee on
Interstate Commerce, 75th Congress, 1st session, Part 3, 17–18 December 1936,
and Part 6, 3–5 March 1937. United States. Washington, DC: Government
Printing Office, 1938. https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?
id=umn.31951d03505331k&view=1up&seq=4&skin=2021
Money Trust Investigation of Financial and Monetary Conditions in the United
States [Pujo Committee]. Subcommittee of the Committee on Banking and
Currency. United States. Washington, DC: Government Printing Office 1913.
https://fraser.stlouisfed.org/title/money-trust-investigation-80?browse=1910s
Page 555
Page 555
Monthly Review of Credit and Business Conditions. New York: Federal Reserve
Bank of New York.
The Public Papers of Presidents of the United States: Herbert Hoover, 4 vols.
1930. Washington, DC: Government Printing Office, 1974–77.
The Report of the Committee to Investigate the Concentration of Control of
Money and Credit. House of Representatives. 62nd Congress, 3rd session.
United States. Washington, DC: Government Printing Office, 1913.
https://fraser.stlouisfed.org/title/report-committee-appointed-pursuant-house-
resolutions-429-504-investigate-concentration-control-money-credit-1329
Sale of Foreign Bonds or Securities in the United States. Hearings before the
United States Senate Committee on Finance, 72nd Congress, Part 1, 18–19 and
21 December 1931. United States. Washington, DC: Government Printing
Office, 1932. https://fraser.stlouisfed.org/title/sale-foreign-bonds-securities-
united-states-398?browse=1930s
Special Committee Investigating the Munitions Industry [Nye Committee].
United States Senate. 74th Congress, 2nd session, Parts 25–29, 7–8, 9–10,
13–14, and 15–16 January 1936, 4–5 February 1936. United States. Washington,
DC: Government Printing Office, 1937.
https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/000964105
Stock Exchange Practices [Pecora Committee]. Hearings before the Sub-
Committee of the United States Senate Committee on Banking and Currency,
73rd Congress, 1st session, Part 1, 23–25 May 1933, Part II, 26 and 31 May
1933, 1–2 and 5–9 June 1933. United States. Washington, DC: Government
Printing Office, 1933. https://fraser.stlouisfed.org/title/stock-exchange-practices-
87?browse=1930s
Page 556
Page 556
Temporary National Economic Committee. 76th Congress, 2nd session, Part 23,
15, 18–19, and 20 December 1939. United States. Washington, DC: Government
Printing Office, 1940. https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?
id=hvd.32044032276537&view=1up&seq=4&skin=2021
United States of America before the Securities and Exchange Commission in the
Matter of Richard Whitney, et al. United States. Vols. 1–3. Washington, DC:
Government Printing Office, 1938. https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?
id=uiug.30112059644259&view=1up&seq=7&skin=2021
Newspapers and Journals
American Bankers Association Journal
Christian Science Monitor
Commercial & Financial Chronicle
Forbes
Foreign Affairs
Fortune
Harper’s Magazine
The Nation
The New Republic
New York Herald Tribune
New York Times
Saturday Evening Post
Page 557
Page 557
Wall Street Journal
Washington Post
Diaries, Memoirs, and Secondary Sources
Accominitti, Olivier. “International Banking and Transmission of the 1931
Financial Crisis.” London School of Economics and CEPR, November 2016.
https://cepr.org/active/publications/discussion_papers/dp.php?dpno=11651
Agar, Herbert and Allen Tate. Who Owns America? A New Declaration of
Independence. New York: Houghton Mifflin, 1936.
Aguado, Iago Gil. “The Creditanstalt Crisis of 1931 and the Failure of the
Austro-German Customs Union Project.” Historical Journal, vol. 44, no. 1
(2001), pp. 199–221.
Ahamed, Liaquat. Lords of Finance: The Bankers Who Broke the World. New
York: Penguin Press, 2009.
Allen, Frederick Lewis. The Lords of Creation. New York: Harper Brothers,
1935. [Reprint: Quandrangle Books, 1966.]
Allen, Frederick Lewis. Only Yesterday. New York: Harper and Brothers, 1931.
Allen, Frederick Lewis. Since Yesterday. New York: Harper and Brothers, 1940.
Allen, Julia M. Passionate Commitments: The Lives of Anna Rochester and
Grace Hutchins. Albany: State University of New York Press, 2013.
Allen, Robert S. More Merry-Go-Round, by the Authors of Washington Merry-
Page 558
Page 558
Go-Round. New York: Liveright Press, 1932.
Anonymous. The Mirrors of Wall Street. New York: G.P. Putnam’s & Sons,
1933.
Archer, Jules. The Plot to Seize the White House. New York: Hawthorne Books,
1973.
Artaud, Denise. “Reparations and War Debts: The Restoration of French
Financial Power, 1919–1929,” in Robert Boyce ed. French Foreign and Defence
Policy, 1918–1940. London: Routledge, 1998, pp. 88–105.
Attack, Jeremy and Peter Passell. A New Economic View of American History,
2nd ed. New York: W.W. Norton, 1994.
Awalt, Francis Gloyd. “Recollections of the Banking Crisis of 1933.” Business
History Review, vol. 43, no. 3 (1969), pp. 347–71.
Badger, Anthony. FDR: The First Hundred Days. New York: Hill and Wang,
2008.
Barber, William. From New Era to New Deal: Herbert Hoover, the Economists,
and American Economic Policy, 1921–1933. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 1985.
Beckert, Sven. Empire of Cotton: A Global History. New York: Alfred A. Knopf,
2014.
Beckhart, Benjamin Haggott. The New York Money Market, Vol. 3, ed. Benjamin
Haggott Beckhart. New York: Columbia University Press, 1931–32. [Reprint:
New York: AMS Press, 1971.]
Page 559
Page 559
Beckhart, Benjamin Haggott and James G. Smith. The New York Money Market,
Vol. 2, ed. Benjamin Haggott Beckhart. New York: Columbia University Press,
1931–32. [Reprint: New York: AMS Press, 1971.]
Bell, Elliott V. “The Decline of the Money Barons,” in Hanson W. Baldwin and
Shepard Stone eds. We Saw It Happen: The News behind the News That’s Fit to
Print. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1938, pp. 135–67.
Bell, P.M.H. The Origins of the Second World War in Europe, 2nd ed. Harlow:
Longman, 1997.
Bennett, Edward W. Germany and the Diplomacy of the Financial Crisis, 1931.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1962.
Benston, George J. The Separation of Commercial and Investment Banking: The
Glass-Steagall Act Revisited and Reconsidered – A Retrospective of the Pecora
Committee. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1990.
Berle, Beatrice Bishop and Travis Beal Jacobs, eds. Navigating the Rapids,
1918–1971: From the Papers of Adolf A. Berle. New York: Harcourt Brace
Jovanovich, 1973.
Birmingham, Stephen. Our Crowd: The Great Jewish Families of New York.
New York: Harper & Row, 1967.
Black, Conrad. Franklin Delano Roosevelt: Champion of Freedom. New York:
Public Affairs, 2003.
Blower, Brooke. Becoming Americans in Paris: Transatlantic Politics and
Culture between the World Wars. New York: Oxford University Press, 2011.
Blower, Brooke L. “From Isolationism to Neutrality: A New Framework for
Page 560
Page 560
Understanding American Political Culture, 1919–1941.” Diplomatic History,
vol. 38, no. 3 (2014), pp. 345–76.
Blumenthal, Henry. Illusion and Reality in Franco-American Diplomacy
1914–1945. Baton Rouge, LA: Louisiana State University Press, 1986.
Boemeke, Manfed F., Gerald D. Feldman, and Elisabeth Glaser eds. The Treaty
of Versailles: A Reassessment after 75 Years. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 1998.
Bonin, Hubert and Ferry de Goey, eds. American Firms in Europe 1880–1980.
Geneva: Librairie Droz, 2009.
Bordo, Michael and John Landon-Lane. “The Banking Panics in the United
States in the 1930s: Some Lessons for Today,” in Nicholas Crafts and Peter
Fearon, eds. The Great Depression of the 1930s: Lessons for Today. New York:
Oxford University Press, 2013, pp. 188–211.
Borg, Dorothy. The United States and the Far Eastern Crisis of 1933–1938.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1964.
Boulanger, Renaud. “La question de rapprochement financier et banquier entre
la France et les États-Unis a la fin des années 1920. L’entremise de Pierre
Quesnay.” Histoire@Politique, no. 19 (2013).
Boyce, Robert. British Capitalism at the Crossroads 1919–1932. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1987.
Boyce, Robert. The Great Interwar Crisis and the Collapse of Globalization.
London: Palgrave Macmillan, 2009.
Brinkley, Alan. The End of Reform: New Deal Liberalism in Recession and War.
Page 561
Page 561
New York: Vintage Books, 1996.
Brinkley, Alan. Voices of Protest, Huey Long, Father Coughlin and the Great
Depression. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1982.
Brooks, John. Once in Golconda. New York: Harper & Row, 1969. [Reprint:
New York: John Wiley & Sons 1999.]
Browder, Robert Paul and Thomas G. Smith. Independent: A Biography of Lewis
Douglas. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1986.
Brown, E. Cary. “Fiscal Policy in the Thirties: A Reappraisal.” American
Economic Review, Vol. 46 (1956), pp. 857–79.
Brownlee, W. Elliott. “Russell Cornell Leffingwell,” in Larry Schweikart ed.
Encyclopedia of American Business History and Biography, Banking and
Finance. New York: Facts on File, 1990.
Broz, J. Lawrence. The International Origins of the Federal Reserve System.
Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1997.
Burk, Kathleen. Britain, America and the Sinews of War. London: Allen &
Unwin, 1985.
Burk, Kathleen. “The House of Morgan in Financial Diplomacy, 1920–1930,” in
B.J.C. McKercher ed. Anglo-American Relations in the 1920s. Edmonton:
University of Alberta Press, 1990, pp. 125–57.
Burk, Kathleen. “A Merchant Bank at War: The House of Morgan 1914–1918,”
in P.L Cottrell and D.E. Moggridge eds. Money and Power. London: Macmillan,
1988, pp. 155–72.
Page 562
Page 562
Burk, Kathleen. Morgan Grenfell 1838–1988. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
1989.
Burk, Robert E., ed. The Diary Letters of Hiram Johnson, 1917–1945, 7 vols.
New York: Garland Publishing, 1983.
Burns, Helen. The American Banking Community and New Deal Banking
Reforms 1933–1935. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1974.
Butler, Michael A. Cautious Visionary: Cordell Hull and Trade Reform,
1933–1937. Kent, OH: Kent State University Press, 1998.
Cain, Peter J. and Anthony G. Hopkins. British Imperialism, 1688–2000. 2nd ed.
Harlow: Longman, 2001.
Cairncross, Alec and Barry Eichengreen. Sterling in Decline. Oxford: Basil
Blackwell, 1983.
Calomiris, Charles W. and Barry Wilson. “Bank Capital and Portfolio
Management: The 1930’s Capital Crunch and the Scramble to Shed Risk.” The
Journal of Business, vol. 77, no. 3 (2004), pp. 421–55.
Cannadine, David. Mellon: An American Life. New York: Vintage Books, 2008.
Carosso, Vincent P. Investment Banking in America. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press, 1970.
Carosso, Vincent P. The Morgans: Private International Bankers 1854–1913.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1987.
Carosso, Vincent P. “The Morgan Houses: The Seniors, Their Partners, and
Their Aides,” in Joseph R. Frese and Jacob Judd, eds. American
Page 563
Page 563
Industrialization, Economic Expansion and the Law. Tarrytown, NY: Sleepy
Hollow Press, 1981, pp. 1–36.
Carosso, Vincent P. “The Wall Street Money Trust from Pujo through Medina.”
Business History Review, vol. 47, no. 4 (1973), pp. 421–37.
Carroll, John W. “Owen D. Young and German Reparations: The Diplomacy of
an Enlightened Businessman,” in Kenneth Paul Jones ed. U.S. Diplomats in
Europe, 1919–1941. Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-Clio, 1983, pp. 43–62.
Case, Josephine Young and Everett Needham Case. Owen D. Young and
American Enterprise. Boston: David R. Godine, 1982.
Cassis, Youssef and Eric Bussières, eds. London and Paris As International
Financial Centres in the Twentieth Century. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
2005.
Cassis, Youssef and P.L. Cottrell, eds. Private Banking in Europe: Rise, Retreat
and Resurgence. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2015.
Chandler, Lester V. America’s Greatest Depression, 1929–1941. New York:
Harper & Row, 1970.
Chandler, Lester V. Benjamin Strong: Central Banker. Washington: Brookings
Institution, 1958.
Chapman, Herrick. State Capitalism and Working Class Radicalism in the
French Aircraft Industry. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press, 1991.
Chapman, Stanley. The Rise of Merchant Banking. London: George Allen &
Unwin, 1984.
Page 564
Page 564
Chase, Stuart. “Capital Not Wanted.” Harper’s Magazine, vol. 180 (February
1940).
Chase, Stuart. “Shadow over Wall Street.” Harper’s Magazine, vol. 180 (March
1940).
Chernow, Ron. The House of Morgan. New York: Atlantic Monthly Press, 1990.
Childs, Marquis. “They Hate Roosevelt”, in Frank Friedel ed. The New Deal
and the American People. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1964, pp.
98–104.
Clarke, Stephen V.O. Central Bank Cooperation 1924–1931. New York: Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, 1967.
Clavin, Patricia. The Failure of Economic Diplomacy: Britain, Germany,
France, and the United States, 1931–36. London: Macmillan, 1996.
Clavin, Patricia. “Reparations in the Long Run.” Diplomacy and Statecraft, vol.
16, no. 3 (2005), pp. 515–30.
Clavin, Patricia. Securing the World Economy: The Reinvention of the League of
Nations, 1920–1946. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2013.
Clay, Sir Henry. Lord Norman. London: MacMillan & Co., 1957.
Clement, Piet. “‘The Touchstone of German Credit’: Nazi Germany and the
Service of the Dawes and Young Loans.” Financial History Review, vol. 11, no.
1 (2004), pp. 33–50.
Clements, Kendrick A. The Life of Herbert Hoover: Imperfect Visionary,
1918–1928. London: Palgrave Macmillan, 2010.
Page 565
Page 565
Cleveland, Harold van B. and Thomas F. Huertas. Citibank, 1812–1970.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1985.
Cohrs, Patrick. The Unfinished Peace after World War I. New York: Cambridge
University Press, 2006.
Cole, Wayne S. Roosevelt and the Isolationists, 1932–1945. Lincoln, NE:
University of Nebraska Press, 1983.
Corey, Lewis. The House of Morgan. New York: G. Howard Watt, 1930.
[Reprint: New York: AMS, 1969.]
Costigliola, Frank. Awkward Dominion: American Political, Economic, and
Cultural Relations with Europe, 1919–1933. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University
Press, 1984.
Costigliola, Frank C. “Anglo-American Financial Rivalry in the 1920s.” Journal
of Economic History, vol. 37, no. 4 (1977), pp. 911–34.
Coulter, Matthew Ware. The Senate Munitions Inquiry of the 1930s. Westport,
CT: Greenwood Press, 1997.
Cross, Colin. Philip Snowden. London: Barrie and Rockliff, 1966.
Crowcroft, Robert. The End Is Nigh: British Politics, Power and the Road of the
Second World War. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2019.
Cull, Nicholas. Selling War: The British Propaganda Campaign Against
American “Neutrality” in World War II. New York: Oxford University Press,
1995.
Dallek, Robert. Franklin D. Roosevelt and American Foreign Policy,
Page 566
Page 566
1932–1945. New York: Oxford University Press, 1981.
Davis, Kenneth S. FDR: The New York Years 1928–1933. New York: Random
House, 1985.
Dawley, Alan. Changing the World: American Progressives in War and
Revolution. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2003.
Dayer, Roberta Allbert. Finance and Empire: Sir Charles Addis, 1861–1945.
London: Macmillan, 1988.
De Grazia, Victoria. Irresistible Empire: America’s Advance Through Twentieth-
Century Europe. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2005.
Dennis, Lawrence. Is Capitalism Doomed? New York: Harper Brothers, 1932.
Denton, Sally. The Plots Against the President: FDR, A Nation in Crisis, and the
Rise of the American Right. New York: Bloomsbury Press, 2012.
Diggins, John P. Mussolini and Fascism: The View from America. Princeton, NJ:
Princeton University Press, 1972.
Doenecke, Justus D. “U.S. Policy and the European War, 1939–41.” Diplomatic
History, vol. 19, no. 4 (1995), pp. 669–98.
Dulles, John Foster. “Our Foreign Loan Policy.” Foreign Affairs, vol. 5, no. 1
(1926), pp. 33–48.
Dunlap, Annette B. Charles Gates Dawes: A Life. Evanston, IL: Northwestern
University Press, 2016.
Eccles, Marriner S. Beckoning Frontiers. New York: Knopf, 1951.
Page 567
Page 567
Eichengreen, Barry. Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great
Depression, 1919–1939. New York: Oxford University Press, 1992.
Eichengreen, Barry. “The Political Economy of the Smoot-Hawley Tariff.”
NBER Working Paper Series, No. 2001, August 1986.
Eichengreen, Barry. “U.S. Foreign Financial Relations in the Twentieth
Century,” in Stanley L. Engerman and Robert E. Gallman eds. The Cambridge
Economic History of the United States, Vol. 3: The Twentieth Century.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000, pp. 463–504.
Ellwood, David. The Shock of America: Europe and the Challenge of the
Century. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2012.
Farley, James A. Jim Farley’s Story: The Roosevelt Years. New York: Whittlesey
House, 1948.
Farnham, Barbara Rearden. Roosevelt and the Munich Crisis. Princeton, NJ:
Princeton University Press, 1997.
Fearon, Peter. War, Prosperity and Depression: The U.S. Economy 1917–45.
Lawrence, KS: University Press of Kansas, 1987.
Feiertag, Olivier. “Pierre Quesnay et les réseaux de l’internationisme monétaire
en Europe (1919–1937),” in Michel Dumoulin ed. Les réseaux économiques de
la construction européene au XXe siècle. Bern: Peter Lang, 2004, pp. 331–49.
Fein-Phillips, Kim. Invisible Hands: The Making of the Conservative Movement
from the New Deal to Reagan. New York: W.W. Norton, 2009.
Feis, Herbert. Europe: The World’s Banker, 1870–1914. New Haven, CT: Yale
Page 568
Page 568
University Press, 1930. [Reprint: New York: W.W. Norton, 1965.]
Feldman, Gerald D. “The Reparations Debate.” Diplomacy and Statecraft, vol.
16, no. 3 (2005), pp. 487–98.
Ferguson, Thomas. “From Normalcy to New Deal.” International Organization,
vol. 38, no. 1 (1984), pp. 41–94.
Ferrell, Robert H. American Diplomacy in the Great Depression: Hoover-
Stimson Foreign Policy, 1929–1933. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press,
1957.
Field, Alexander J. A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression and U.S.
Economic Growth. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2011.
Findlay, Ronald and Kevin O’Rourke. Power and Plenty: Trade, War, and the
World Economy in the Second Millennium. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University
Press, 2007.
Fischer, Conan. “The Human Price of Reparations.” Diplomacy and Statecraft,
vol. 16, no. 3 (2005), pp. 499–514.
Fischer, Conan. A Vision of Europe: Franco-German Relations during the Great
Depression 1929–1932. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2017.
Flandreau, Marc, ed. Money Doctors: The Experience of International Financial
Advising, 1850–2000. London: Routledge 2003.
Flandreau, Marc, Norbert J. Gaillard, and Ugo Panizza. “Conflicts of Interest,
Reputation and the Interwar Debt Crisis: Banksters or Bad Luck.” CEPR
Discussion Paper Series, No. 7705, 2010.
Page 569
Page 569
Forbes, Bertie C. Men Who Are Making America. New York: B.C. Forbes
Publishing Co., 1917.
Forbes, John Douglas. J.P. Morgan, Jr. 1867–1943. Charlottesville, VA:
University of Virginia Press, 1981.
Forbes, Neil. “London Banks, the German Standstill Agreements, and
‘Economic Appeasement’ in the 1930s.” Economic History Review, 2nd series,
vol. 40, no. 4 (1987), pp. 571–87.
Frankenstein, Robert. Le Prix du réarmement français (1935–1939). Paris:
Publications de la Sorbonne, 1982.
Fraser, Monika Pohle. “Personal and Impersonal Exchange. The Role of
Reputation in Banking: Some Evidence from Nineteenth and Early Twentieth
Century Banks’ Archives,” in Philip L. Cottrell, Evan Lange, and Ulf Olsson,
eds. Centres and Peripheries in Banking: The Historical Development of
Financial Markets. Ashgate: Aldershot, 2007, pp. 177–210.
Fraser, Steve. Every Man a Speculator: A History of Wall Street in American
Life. New York: Harper Perennial Edition, 2006.
Fraser, Steve and Gary Gerstle, eds. Ruling America: A History of Wealth and
Power in a Democracy. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2005.
Freedman, Max, ed. Roosevelt and Frankfurter: Their Correspondence,
1928–1945. Boston: Little, Brown, 1967.
Friedel, Frank, ed. The New Deal and the American People. Englewood Cliffs,
NJ: Prentice Hall, 1964.
Friedman, Milton F. and Anna Jacobson Schwartz. “The Failure of the Bank of
Page 570
Page 570
the United States: A Reappraisal. A Reply.” Explorations in Economic History,
vol. 23 (1986), pp. 199–204.
Friedman, Milton F. and Anna Jacobson Schwartz. The Monetary History of the
United States 1867–1960. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1963.
Gage, Beverly. The Day That Wall Street Exploded. New York: Oxford
University Press, 2009.
Galbraith, John Kenneth. The Great Crash 1929, 3rd ed. Boston: Houghton
Mifflin, 1972.
Gardner, Lloyd C. Economic Aspects of New Deal Diplomacy. Madison, WI:
University of Wisconsin Press, 1964.
Gay, Edwin F. “The Great Depression.” Foreign Affairs, vol. 10, no. 4 (1932),
pp. 529–40.
Geisst, Charles R. Deals of the Century: Wall Street, Mergers, and the Making of
Modern America. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, 2004.
Geisst, Charles R. Undue Influence: How the Wall Street Elite Put the Financial
System at Risk. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, 2005.
Geisst, Charles R. Wall Street: A History. New York: Oxford University Press,
1997.
Gellman, Irwin F. Secret Affairs: Franklin Roosevelt, Cordell Hull and Sumner
Welles. Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1995.
Girault, René. Emprunts russes et investissements français en Russie 1887–1914.
Paris: Librairie Armand Colin, 1973.
Page 571
Page 571
Glaser, Elisabeth. “The Making of the Economic Peace,” in Manfred F.
Boemeke, Gerald D. Feldman, and Elisabeth Glaser eds. The Treaty of
Versailles: A Reassessment after 75 Years. Washington: German Historical
Institute, 1998, pp. 371–400.
Goeschel, Christian. Mussolini and Hitler: The Forging of the Fascist Alliance.
New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2018.
Gomes, Leonard. German Reparations 1919–1932. London: Palgrave
Macmillan, 2010.
Gooch, John. Mussolini and His Generals: The Armed Forces and Fascist
Foreign Policy, 1922–1940. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2007.
Goodall, Alex. “U.S. Foreign Relations under Harding, Coolidge, and Hoover:
Power and Constraint,” in Katherine A.S. Sibley ed. A Companion to Warren G.
Harding, Calvin Coolidge, and Herbert Hoover. Chichester: John Wiley & Sons,
2014, pp. 53–76.
Gordon, John Steele. The Great Game: The Emergence of Wall Street As a World
Power, 1653–2000. New York: Touchstone, 2000.
Gorodetsky, Gabriel. The Maisky Diaries: Red Ambassador to the Court of St.
James, 1932–1943. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2015.
Haight Jr., John McVicar. American Aid to France 1938–40. New York:
Atheneum, 1970.
Hall, Peter A. and David Soskice, eds. The Varieties of Capitalism: The
Institutional Foundations of Comparative Advantage. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2001.
Page 572
Page 572
Hamby, Alonzo. For the Survival of Democracy: Franklin Roosevelt and the
World Crisis of the 1930s. New York: The Free Press, 2004.
Harbaugh, William H. Lawyer’s Lawyer: The Life of John W. Davis. New York:
Oxford University Press, 1973.
Harrison, Richard. “A Neutralization Plan for the Pacific: Roosevelt and Anglo-
American Cooperation, 1934–1937.” Pacific Historical Review, vol. 57, no. 1
(1988), pp. 47–72.
Harwood, Herbert H. Invisible Giants: The Empires of Cleveland’s Van
Sweringen Brothers. Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press, 2003.
Hart, Bradley W. Hitler’s American Friends. New York: St. Martin’s Press,
2018.
Hawley, Ellis. The Great War and the Search for a Modern Order: A History of
the American People and Their Institutions, 1917–1933. New York: St. Martin’s
Press, 1979.
Hawley, Ellis. The New Deal and the Problem of Monopoly. Princeton, NJ:
Princeton University Press, 1966.
Heinrichs, Waldo H., Jr. American Ambassador: Joseph C. Grew and the
Development of the United States Diplomatic Tradition. New York: Oxford
University Press, 1966.
Herring, George C. From Colony to Superpower: U.S. Foreign Relations since
1776. New York: Oxford University Press, 2008.
“High Finance in the ‘Twenties: The United Corporation (I).” Columbia Law
Review, vol. 37, no. 5 (1937), pp. 785–816.
Page 573
Page 573
Hinton, Longstreet, John E. Meyer Jr., and Thomas Rodd. Some Comments
about the Morgan Bank. New York: Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, 1979.
[Reprinted 1985.]
Hogan, Michael. Informal Entente: The Private Structure of Cooperation in
Anglo-American Economic Diplomacy, 1918–1928. Columbia, MO: University
of Missouri Press, 1978.
Hogan, Michael. “Thomas W. Lamont and European Recovery: The Diplomacy
of Privatism in a Corporatist Age,” in Kenneth Paul Jones ed. U.S. Diplomats in
Europe, 1919–1941. Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-Clio, 1983, pp. 5–24.
Hoover, Herbert. The Memoirs of Herbert Hoover: The Great Depression,
1929–1941. New York: Macmillan, 1952.
Horn, Martin. Britain, France and the Financing of the First World War.
Montreal: McGill-Queen’s University Press, 2002.
Horn, Martin. “J.P. Morgan & Co., the House of Morgan and Europe
1933–1939.” Contemporary European History, 14, no. 4 (2005), pp. 519–38.
Huddleston, Sisley. In My Time. New York: E.P. Dutton & Co., 1938.
Hull, Cordell. The Memoirs of Cordell Hull. 2 vols. New York: The Macmillan
Company, 1948.
Hyman, Sidney. Marriner S. Eccles. Palo Alto, CA: Stanford University Press,
1976.
Imlay, Talbot C. Facing the Second World War: Strategy, Politics and
Economics in Britain and France 1938–1940. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
2003.
Page 574
Page 574
Irwin, Douglas A. “From Smoot-Hawley to Reciprocal Trade Agreements:
Changing the Course of U.S. Trade Policy in the 1930s,” in Michael D. Bordo,
Claudia Goldin, and Eugene N. White eds. The Defining Moment: The Great
Depression and the American Economy in the Twentieth Century. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, 1998, pp. 325–52.
Jackson, Peter. France and the Nazi Menace: Intelligence and Policy Making,
1933–1939. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2000.
Jacobson, Jon. Locarno Diplomacy, Germany and the West, 1925–29. Princeton,
NJ: Princeton University Press, 1972.
James, Harold. The End of Globalization: Lessons from the Great Depression.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2001.
Jeansonne, Glen. The Life of Herbert Hoover: Fighting Quaker 1928–1933. New
York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2012.
Johnson, Arthur M. Winthrop W. Aldrich: Lawyer, Banker, Diplomat. Cambridge,
MA: Harvard University Press, 1968.
Jones, Jesse. Fifty Billion Dollars: My Thirteen Years with the RFC 1932–1945.
New York: The Chronicle Company, 1951. [Reprint: New York: De Capo Press,
1975.]
Josephson, Matthew. The Robber Barons. New York: Harcourt Brace, 1934.
Joslin, Theodore. Hoover off the Record. Garden City, NY: Doubleday, Doran
and Company, 1934. [Reprint: Freeport, NY: Books for Libraries Press, 1971.]
Kaiser, David. No End Save Victory. New York: Basic Books, 2014.
Page 575
Page 575
Kennedy, David. Freedom from Fear: The American People in Depression and
War. New York: Oxford University Press, 1999.
Kennedy, Susan Estabrook. The Banking Crisis of 1933. Lexington, KY:
University of Kentucky Press, 1973.
Kershaw, Ian. Hitler. 2 vols. London: Allen Lane, 1998–2000.
Keylor, William. “France and the Illusion of American Support, 1919–1940,” in
Joel Blatt ed. The French Defeat of 1940: Reassessments. Providence, RI:
Berghahn Books, 1998, pp. 222–44.
Kindleberger, Charles. The World in Depression. Rev. ed. Berkeley, CA:
University of California Press, 1986.
Klein, Maury. Rainbow’s End: The Crash of 1929. New York: Oxford
University Press, 2001.
Kotz, David M. Bank Control of Large Corporations in the United States,
Berkeley, CA: University of California Press, 1980.
Kouwenhoven, John A. Partners in Banking: An Historical Portrait of a Great
Private Bank Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. 1818–1968. New York: Privately
Printed, 1968.
Krock, Arthur. Memoirs. New York: Funk & Wagnalls, 1968.
Kuisel, Richard. Seducing the French: The Dilemma of Americanization.
Berkeley, CA: University of California Press, 1993.
Kunz, Diane B. The Battle for Britain’s Gold Standard in 1931. London: Croom
Helm, 1987.
Page 576
Page 576
Kynaston, David. The City of London, Vol. 1: A World of Its Own 1815–1890.
London: Pimlico, 1995.
Kynaston, David. The City of London, Vol. 2: Golden Years, 1890–1914.
London: Pimlico, 1995.
Lamont, Edward M. The Ambassador from Wall Street. Lanham, MD: Madison
Books, 1994.
Lamont, Lansing. A Life in Letters. New York: Strawtown Press, 1999.
Lamont, Thomas W. Across World Frontiers. New York: Harcourt Brace & Co.,
1951.
Lamont, Thomas. “The Final Reparations Settlement.” Foreign Affairs, vol. 8,
no. 3 (1930), pp. 336–63.
Lamont, Thomas W. Henry P. Davison: The Record of a Useful Life. New York:
Harper & Brothers, 1933.
Lamont, Thomas W. My Boyhood in a Parsonage. New York: Harper Brothers,
1946.
Langer, William L. and S. Everett Gleason. The Challenge to Isolation,
1937–1940. New York: Harper Brothers, 1952
Lasser, William. Benjamin V. Cohen: Architect of the New Deal. New Haven,
CT: Yale University Press, 2002.
Latham, Earl. The Politics of Railroad Coordination 1933–1936. Cambridge,
MA: Harvard University Press, 1959.
Page 577
Page 577
Lawson, Alan. A Commonwealth of Hope. Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins
University Press, 2006.
Laybourn, Kenneth. Philip Snowden: A Biography, 1864–1937. Aldershot:
Temple Smith, 1988.
LeClair, Harold, ed. The Secret Diary of Harold Ickes. 3 vols. New York: Simon
& Schuster, 1953–54.
Leff, Mark H. The Limits of Symbolic Reform: The New Deal and Taxation,
1933–1939. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1984.
Leffler, Melvyn P. Leffler. The Elusive Quest: America’s Pursuit of European
Stability and French Security, 1919–1933. Chapel Hill, NC: University of North
Carolina Press, 1979.
Leith-Ross, Sir Frederick. Money Talks: Fifty Years of International Finance.
London: Hutchinson & Co., 1968.
Leuchtenberg, William E. Franklin D. Roosevelt and the New Deal. New York:
Harper Torchbooks, 1963.
Leuchtenburg, William E. The Perils of Prosperity. 2nd ed. Chicago: University
of Chicago Press, 1993.
Levy-Leboyer, Maurice. “La capacité financière de la France au début du
vingtième siècle,” in Maurice Levy-Leboyer ed. La position internationale de la
France. Paris: École des hautes études en sciences sociales, 1977.
Lewis, Cleona. America’s Stake in International Investments. Washington, DC:
Brookings Institution, 1938.
Page 578
Page 578
Long, Huey Pierce. My First Days in the White House. Harrisburg, PA: The
Telegraph Press, 1935. [Reprint: New York: Da Capo Press, 1972.]
Loucks, Henry. The Great Conspiracy of the House of Morgan and How to
Defeat It. Watertown, SD: n.p., 1916.
Louria, Margot. Triumph and Downfall: America’s Pursuit of Peace and
Prosperity, 1921–1933. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 2001.
Lucia, Joseph L. “The Failure of the Bank of the United States: A Reappraisal.”
Explorations in Economic History, vol. 22 (1985), pp. 402–16.
Lundberg, Ferdinand. America’s Sixty Families. New York: The Vanguard Press,
1937.
Macdonald, C.A. The United States, Britain and Appeasement 1936–1939. New
York: St Martin’s Press, 1981.
Macher, Flora. “The Austrian Banking Crisis of 1931: A Reassessment.”
Financial History Review, vol. 25, no. 3 (2018), pp. 297–321.
MacKay, Malcolm. Impeccable Connections: The Rise and Fall of Richard
Whitney. New York: Brick Tower Press, 2011.
MacMillan, Margaret. Paris 1919. New York: Random House, 2001.
Mallett, Robert. Mussolini and the Origins of the Second World War, 1933–1940.
London: Palgrave Macmillan, 2003.
Maney, Patrick. The Roosevelt Presence. Berkeley, CA: University of California
Press, 1998.
Page 579
Page 579
Marcus, Nathan. Austrian Reconstruction and the Collapse of Global Finance,
1921–1931. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2018.
Marks, Sally. The Illusion of Peace: International Relations in Europe. London:
Macmillan Press, 1976.
Marks, Sally. “Mistakes and Myths: The Allies, Germany, and the Versailles
Treaty, 1918–1921.” Journal of Modern History, vol. 85, no. 3 (2013), pp.
632–59.
Marks, Sally. “The Myths of Reparation.” Central European History, vol. 11,
no. 3 (1978), pp. 231–55.
Martel, Gordon, ed. The Origins of the Second World War Reconsidered: The
A.J.P. Taylor Debate After Twenty-Five Years. London: Unwin Hyman, 1986.
Mazower, Mark. Dark Continent: Europe’s Twentieth Century. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf, 1999.
McKercher, B.J.C., ed. Anglo-American Relations in the 1920s. Edmonton:
University of Alberta Press, 1990.
McNeill, William C. American Money and the Weimar Republic. New York:
Columbia University Press, 1986.
McQuaid, Kim. “Corporate Liberalism in the American Business Community,
1920–1940.” Business History Review, vol. 52 (1978), pp. 342–68.
Mehrotra, Ajay K. “Lawyers, Guns and Public Monies: The U.S. Treasury,
World War One, and the Administration of the Modern Fiscal State.” Law and
History Review, vol. 28, no. 1 (2010), pp. 173–225.
Page 580
Page 580
Meltzer, Allan H. A History of the Federal Reserve, Vol. 1: 1913–1951. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, 2003.
Michelman, Irving S. “A Banker in the New Deal: James P. Warburg,”
[reprinted] in Melvyn Dubofsky and Stephen Burwood eds. The American
Economy during the Great Depression. New York: Garland, 1990, pp. 181–205.
Michie, Ranald C. “The City of London As a Global Financial Centre,
1880–1939: Finance, Foreign Exchange, and the First World War,” in Philip L.
Cottrell, Evan Lange, and Ulf Olsson eds. Centres and Peripheries in Banking:
The Historical Development of Financial Markets. Ashgate: Aldershot, 2007,
pp. 41–80.
Migone, Gian Giacomo. The United States and Fascist Italy: The Rise of
American Finance in Europe, trans. Molly Tambor. New York: Cambridge
University Press, 2015.
Moe, Richard. Roosevelt’s Second Act: The Election of 1940 and the Politics of
War. New York: Oxford University Press, 2013.
Moley, Raymond. After Seven Years. New York: Harper & Brothers, 1939.
Moley, Raymond. The First New Deal. New York: Harcourt, Brace & World,
1966.
Morewood, Steven. “‘This Silly African Business’: The Military Dimension of
Britain’s Response to the Abyssinia Crisis,” in G. Bruce Strang ed. Collision of
Empires: Italy’s Invasion of Ethiopia and Its International Impact. London:
Ashgate, 2013, pp. 73–108.
Morris, Charles R. A Rabble of Dead Money: The Great Crash and the Global
Page 581
Page 581
Depression, 1929–1939. New York: Public Affairs, 2017.
Morrow, Dwight. “Who Buys Foreign Bonds.” Foreign Affairs, vol. 5, no. 2
(1927), pp. 219–32.
Moser, John E. Right Turn: John T. Flynn and the Transformation of American
Liberalism. New York: New York University Press, 2005.
Myers, Margaret. The New York Money Market, Vol. 1, ed. Benjamin Haggott
Beckhart. New York: Columbia University Press, 1931–32. [Reprint New York:
AMS Press, 1971.]
Namikas, Lise A. “The Committee to Defend America and the Debate between
Internationalists and Interventionists, 1939–1941.” The Historian, vol. 61, no. 4
(1999).
Nelson, Mark Wayne. Jumping the Abyss: Marriner S. Eccles and the New Deal,
1933–1940. Salt Lake City, UT: University of Utah Press, 2017.
Nicolson, Harold. Diaries and Letters, 1930–1939, ed. Nigel Nicolson. London:
Collins, 1966.
Nicolson, Harold. Dwight Morrow. New York: Harcourt, Brace, 1935.
Noakes, Jeremy J. and Geoffrey Pridham eds. Nazism, 1919–1945: A History in
Documents and Eyewitness Accounts. 2 vols. New York: Schocken Books, 1988.
Nolan, Mary. Visions of Modernity: American Business and the Modernization
of Germany. New York: Oxford University Press, 1994.
Nord, Philip. France 1940: Defending the Republic. New Haven, CT: Yale
University Press, 2015.
Page 582
Page 582
Nouailhat, Yves-Henri. France et États-Unis: août 1914–avril 1917. Paris:
Sorbonne, 1979.
Noyes, Alexander Dana. The Market Place. Boston: Little, Brown and
Company, 1938.
Obstfeld, Michael and Alan M. Taylor. Global Capital Markets: Integration,
Crisis, and Growth. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2004.
O’Brien, Anthony Patrick. “The Failure of the Bank of the United States: A
Defense of Joseph Lucia.” Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking, vol. 24, no. 3
(1992), pp. 374–84.
O’Connor, J.F.T. The Banking Crisis and Recovery under the Roosevelt
Administration. Chicago: 1938. [Reprint: New York: Da Capo, 1971.]
Offner, Avner. “William E. Dodd: Romantic Historian and Diplomatic
Cassandra.” The Historian, vol. 24, no. 4 (1962), pp. 451–69.
Olson, James Stuart. Herbert Hoover and the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation, 1931–1933. Ames, IA: Iowa State University Press, 1977.
Overacker, Louise. “American Government and Politics: Campaign Funds in a
Depression Year.” The American Political Science Review, vol. 27, no. 5 (1933),
pp. 769–83.
Pak, Susie J. Gentleman Bankers: The World of J.P. Morgan. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press, 2013.
Parker, R.A.C. Chamberlain and Appeasement: British Policy and the Coming
of the Second World War. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1993.
Page 583
Page 583
Parrini, Carl. Heir to Empire: United States Economic Diplomacy 1916–1923.
Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1969.
Parrish, Michael. Securities Regulation and the New Deal. New Haven, CT: Yale
University Press, 1970.
Pash, Sidney. The Currents of War: A New History of American-Japanese
Relations, 1899–1941. Lexington, KY: University Press of Kentucky, 2014.
Patel, Kiran Klaus. The New Deal: A Global History. Princeton, NJ: Princeton
University Press, 2016.
Pautz, Michelle. “The Decline in Weekly Cinema Attendance.” Issues in
Political Economy, vol. 11 (2002), pp. 54–65.
Pecora, Ferdinand. Wall Street Under Oath. New York: Simon & Schuster, 1939.
Pensiero, Luca and Romain Restout. “The Gold Standard and the Great
Depression: A Dynamic General Equilibrium Model.” Institut de Recherches
Économiques et Sociales de l’Université catholique de Louvain, Discussion
paper, 3 December 2018.
Perino, Michael. The Hellhound of Wall Street: How Ferdinand Pecora’s
Investigation of the Great Crash Forever Changed American Finance. New
York: Penguin Press, 2010.
Peterecz, Zoltán. Jeremiah Smith Jr. and Hungary, 1924–1926: The United
States, the League of Nations, and the Financial Reconstruction of Hungary.
London: Versita, 2013.
Phillips, Randolph. “The House of Morgan: The Price of Its War and Post-War
Page 584
Page 584
Policies.” The Nation, vol. 148, no. 24, 25 (10 and 17 June 1939)
Phillips, Ronnie J. “The Chicago Plan and New Deal Banking Reform.” Levy
Institute, Working Paper No. 76, June 1992.
www.levyinstitute.org/pubs/wp/76.pdf.
Pollard, John F. Money and the Rise of the Modern Papacy: Financing the
Vatican, 1850–1950. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2005.
Pollard, John F. “The Vatican and the Wall Street Crash: Bernardino Nogara and
Papal Finances in the Early 1930s.” Historical Journal, vol. 42, no. 4 (1999), pp.
1077–91.
Pound, Arthur and Samuel Taylor Moore, eds. They Told Barron. New York:
Harper Brothers, 1930.
Prins, Nomi. All the Presidents’ Bankers. New York: Nation Books, 2014.
Pulling, Edward ed. Selected Letters of R.C. Leffingwell. Oyster Bay, NY:
Privately Printed, 1979.
Rauchway, Eric. Winter War: Hoover, Roosevelt and the First Clash over the
New Deal. New York: Basic Books, 2018.
Reagan, Patrick. “Business,” in William D. Pederson ed. A Companion to
Franklin D. Roosevelt. Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell, 2011, pp. 186–205.
Reynolds, David. “1940: Fulcrum of the Twentieth Century?” International
Affairs, vol. 66, no. 2 (1990), pp. 325–50.
Reynolds, David. The Creation of the Anglo-American Alliance, 1937–1941: A
Study in Competitive Cooperation. Chapel Hill, NC: University of North
Page 585
Page 585
Carolina, 1981.
Rhodes, Benjamin D. “Reassessing Uncle Shylock: The United States and the
French War Debt, 1917–1929.” The Journal of American History, vol. 55, no. 4
(1969), pp. 787–803.
Richardson, Gary and Patrick Van Horn. “Intensified Regulatory Scrutiny and
Bank Distress in New York City During the Great Depression.” Journal of
Economic History, vol. 69, no. 2 (2009), pp. 446–65.
Richardson, Gary and Patrick Van Horn. “When the Music Stopped:
Transatlantic Contagion During the Financial Crisis of 1931.” NBER, Working
Paper No. 17437, September 2011.
Ritchie, Donald. Electing FDR: The New Deal Campaign of 1932. Lawrence,
KS: University Press of Kansas, 2007.
Ritchie, Donald. “The Legislative Impact of the Pecora Investigation.” Capitol
Studies, vol. 5, no. 2 (1977), pp. 87–101.
Roberts, Priscilla. “‘The Council Has Been Your Creation’: Hamilton Fish
Armstrong, Paradigm of the American Foreign Policy Establishment?” Journal
of American Studies, vol. 35, no. 1 (2001), pp. 65–94.
Roberts, Priscilla. “The Anglo-American Theme: American Visions of an
Atlantic Alliance 1914–1933.” Diplomatic History, vol. 21, no. 3 (1997), pp.
333–64.
Robinson, Henry M. “Are American Loans Abroad Safe?” Foreign Affairs, vol.
5, no. 1 (1926), pp. 49–56.
Rochester, Anna. Rulers of America: A Study of Finance Capital. New York:
Page 586
Page 586
International Publishers, 1936.
Rock, William R. Chamberlain and Roosevelt: British Foreign Policy and the
United States, 1937–1940. Columbus, OH: Ohio State University Press, 1988.
Roi, Michael L. “‘A Completely Immoral and Cowardly Attitude’: The British
Foreign Office, American Neutrality and the Hoare-Laval Plan.” Canadian
Journal of History, vol. 29, no. 2 (1994), pp. 333–51.
Romasco, Albert U. The Poverty of Abundance: Hoover, the Nation and the
Great Depression. New York: Oxford University Press, 1965.
Roose, Kenneth D. The Economics of Recession and Revival: An Interpretation
of 1937–38. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 1954.
Roosevelt, Elliott, ed. FDR: His Personal Letters. 4 vols. New York: Duell,
Sloan and Pearce, 1947–50.
Rosen, Elliot A. Hoover, Roosevelt and the Brains Trust. New York: Columbia
University Press, 1977.
Rosen, Elliot A. The Republican Party in the Age of Roosevelt. Charlottesville,
VA: University of Virginia Press, 2014.
Rosenberg, Emily S. Financial Missionaries to the World: The Politics and
Culture of Dollar Diplomacy, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1999.
Rottenberg, Dan. The Man Who Made Wall Street: Anthony Drexel and the Rise
of Modern Finance. Philadelphia, PA: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2001.
Rudolph, Frederick. “The American Liberty League, 1934–1940.” The
American Historical Review, vol. 56, no. 1 (1950).
Page 587
Page 587
Sayers, R.S. The Bank of England 1891–1944, 3 vols. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1976.
Schlesinger, Arthur M., Jr. The Coming of the New Deal, 1919–1933. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin Company, 1959.
Schlesinger, Arthur M., Jr. The Crisis of the Old Order, 1919–1939. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin Company, 1957.
Schlesinger, Arthur M., Jr. The Politics of Upheaval. Boston: Houghton Mifflin
Company, 1960.
Schmitz, David F. The United States and Fascist Italy 1922–1940. Chapel Hill,
NC: University of North Carolina Press, 1988.
Schuker, Stephen. “American Foreign Policy and the Young Plan, 1929,” in
Gustav Schmidt ed., Konstellationen Internationaler Politik 1924–1932.
Bochum: N. Brockmeyer, 1983, pp. 122–30.
Schuker, Stephen. American Reparations to Germany: Implications for the
Third-World Debt Crisis. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1988.
Schuker, Stephen. The End of French Predominance in Europe. Chapel Hill,
NC: University of North Carolina Press, 1976.
Schuker, Stephen. “Leffingwell, Russell Cornell,” in John A. Garraty ed.
Dictionary of American Biography, supplement 6, 1956–60. New York: Charles
Scribner’s & Sons, 1990.
Schwartz, Jordan A. The Interregnum of Despair, Hoover, Congress and the
Depression. Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1970.
Page 588
Page 588
Schwartz, Jordan A. The Speculator: Bernard M. Baruch in Washington. Chapel
Hill, NC: University of North Carolina Press, 1981.
Self, Robert. Britain, America and the War Debt Controversy: The Economic
Diplomacy of an Unspecial Relationship, 1917–1941. London: Routledge, 1988.
Seligman, Joel. The Transformation of Wall Street: A History of the Securities
and Exchange Commission and Modern Corporate Finance. Boston: Houghton
Mifflin, 1982.
Sharp, Alan. The Versailles Settlement: Peacemaking After the First World War,
2nd ed. London: Palgrave Macmillan, 2008.
Siegel, Jennifer. For Peace and Money: French and British Finance in the
Service of Tsars and Commissars. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014.
Silverman, Daniel P. Reconstructing Europe after the Great War. Cambridge,
MA: Harvard University Press, 1982.
Simmons, Beth A. “Why Innovate? Founding the Bank for International
Settlements.” World Politics, vol. 45, no. 3 (1993), pp. 361–405.
Skidelsky, Robert. John Maynard Keynes, Vol. 2: The Economist As Saviour.
London: Macmillan, 1992.
Skidelsky, Robert. Politicians and the Slump. London: MacMillan, 1967.
Smith, Rixey and Norman Beasley. Carter Glass: A Biography. New York:
Longmans, Green and Co., 1939.
Smith, Robert Freeman. “Thomas Lamont: International Banker As Diplomat,”
in Thomas J. McCormack and Walter LaFeber eds. Behind the Throne: Servants
Page 589
Page 589
of Power to Imperial Presidents, 1898–1968. Madison, WI: University of
Wisconsin Press, 1993, pp. 101–25.
Sobel, Robert. The Big Board: A History of the New York Stock Market. New
York: The Free Press, 1965.
Sobel, Robert. The Great Bull Market: Wall Street in the 1920’s. New York:
Norton, 1968.
Steiner, Zara. The Lights That Failed: European International Relations
1919–1933. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2005.
Steiner, Zara. The Triumph of the Dark: European International History
1933–1939. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2011.
Steel, Ronald. Walter Lippmann and the American Century. New Brunswick,
NJ: Transaction Publishers, 1999.
Strang, G. Bruce. “‘A Sad Commentary on World Ethics’: Italy and the United
States during the Ethiopian Crisis,” in G. Bruce Strang ed. Collision of Empires:
Italy’s Invasion of Ethiopia and Its International Impact. London: Ashgate,
2013, pp. 135–63.
Strouse, Jean. Morgan: American Financier. New York: Random House, 1999.
Swaine, Robert T. The Cravath Firm and Its Predecessors, 1819–1948, 3 vols.
New York: Privately Printed, 1948.
Swing, Raymond. Good Evening: A Professional Memoir. New York: Harcourt,
Brace & World, 1964.
Tabarrok, Alexander. “The Separation of Commercial and Investment Banking:
Page 590
Page 590
The Morgans vs. The Rockefellers.” The Quarterly Journal of Austrian
Economics, vol. 1, no. 1 (1998), pp. 1–16.
Temin, Peter. “The Great Depression,” in Stanley L. Engerman and Robert E.
Gallman eds. The Cambridge Economic History of the United States, Vol. 3: The
Twentieth Century. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000, pp. 301–28.
Temin, Peter. Lessons from the Great Depression. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press,
1989.
Thomas, Martin. “France and the Czechoslovak Crisis.” Diplomacy and
Statecraft, vol. 10, no. 2 (1999), pp. 122–59.
Thomas, Martin. “France and the Ethiopian Crisis, 1935–1936: Security
Dilemmas and Adjustable Interests,” in G. Bruce Strang ed. Collision of
Empires: Italy’s Invasion of Ethiopia and Its International Impact. London:
Ashgate, 2013, pp. 109–34.
Tomita, Toshiki. “Direct Underwriting of Government Bonds by the Bank of
Japan in the 1930s.” NRI Research Papers, No. 94, September 2005.
Toniolo, Giovanni. Central Bank Cooperation at the Bank for International
Settlements, 1930–1973. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2005.
Tooze, Adam. The Deluge: The Great War and the Remaking of Global Order,
1916–1931. London: Allen Lane, 2014.
Tooze, Adam. The Wages of Destruction: The Making and Breaking of the Nazi
Economy. London: Allen Lane, 2006.
Trachtenberg, Marc. Reparation in World Politics: France and European
Economic Diplomacy, 1916–1923. New York: Columbia University Press, 1980.
Page 591
Page 591
Trescott, Paul B. “The Failure of the Bank of the United States, 1930: A
Rejoinder to Anthony Patrick O’Brien.” Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking,
vol. 24, no. 3 (1992), pp. 384–99.
Ullrich, Volker. Hitler, Vol. 1: Ascent. London: Vintage, 2016.
Velde, François R. “The Recession of 1937: A Cautionary Tale.” Economic
Perspectives (Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago), vol. 33, no. 4 (2009), pp.
16–37.
Vieth, Jane Karoline. “Joseph P. Kennedy and British Appeasement: The
Diplomacy of a Boston Irishman,” in Kenneth Paul Jones ed. U.S. Diplomats in
Europe, 1919–1941. Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-CLIO, 1983, pp. 165–82.
Walker, W.M. “J.P. The Younger.” American Mercury, vol. 40, no. 42 (1927).
Wapshott, Nicholas. The Sphinx: Franklin Roosevelt, the Isolationists, and the
Road to World War II. New York: W.W. Norton, 2015.
Warren, Donald. Radio Priest: Charles Coughlin, the Father of Hate Radio.
New York: The Free Press, 1996.
Warren, Harris Gaylord. Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression. New York:
Oxford University Press, 1959. [Reprint: Westport, CT: Greenwood Press 1980.]
Warren, Kenneth. Big Steel: The First Century of the United States Steel
Corporation. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh Press, 2001.
Watt, Donald. “Roosevelt and Chamberlain: Two Appeasers.” International
Journal, vol. 28, no. 2 (1973).
Weed, Clyde P. The Nemesis of Reform: The Republican Party during the New
Page 592
Page 592
Deal. New York: Columbia University Press, 1994.
Weed, Clyde P. The Transformation of the Republican Party, 1912–1936: From
Reform to Resistance. Boulder, CO: Lynne Rienner Publishers, 2011.
Weems, F. Carrington. America and Munitions: The Work of Messrs. J.P.
Morgan & Co. in the World War, 2 vols. New York: Privately Printed, 1923.
White, Eugene N. “Banking and Finance in the Twentieth Century,” in Stanley
L. Engerman and Robert E. Gallman eds. The Cambridge Economic History of
the United States, Vol. 3: The Twentieth Century. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 2000, pp. 743–802.
White, Eugene Nelson. The Regulation and Reform of the American Banking
System, 1900–1929. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1983.
Wicker, Elmus. The Banking Panics of the Great Depression. New York:
Cambridge University Press, 1996.
Wicker, Elmus. The Great Debate on Banking Reform: Nelson Aldrich and the
Origins of the Fed. Columbus, OH: Ohio State University Press, 2005.
Wigmore, Barry. The Crash and Its Aftermath: A History of Securities Markets
in the United States, 1929–1933. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1985.
Williams, T. Harry. Huey Long. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1969.
Williams, William Appleman. “The Legend of Isolationism in the 1920s.”
Science and Society, vol. 18, no. 1 (1954), pp. 1–20.
Williams, William Appleman. The Tragedy of American Diplomacy, 2nd ed.
New York: Delta, 1962.
Page 593
Page 593
Williamson, Philip. “‘A Banker’s Ramp’? Financiers and the British Political
Crisis of August 1931.” English Historical Review, vol. 49 (1984), pp. 770–806.
Williamson, Philip. National Crisis and National Government. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1992.
Wilkins, Mira. The Maturing of Multinational Enterprise: American Business
Abroad, 1914–1970. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1974.
Wilson, John Donald. The Chase: The Chase Manhattan Bank, 1945–1985.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard Business School Press, 1986.
Wilson, Joan Hoff. American Business and Foreign Policy 1920–1933.
Lexington, KY: University Press of Kentucky, 1971.
Wiltz, John E. In Search of Peace: The Senate Munitions Inquiry, 1934–36.
Baton Rouge, LA: Louisiana State University Press, 1963.
Wolfskill, George. The Revolt of the Conservatives: A History of American
Liberty League, 1934–1940. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1962.
Zelizer, Julian E. “The Forgotten Legacy of the New Deal: Fiscal Conservatism
and the Roosevelt Administration, 1933–1938.” Presidential Studies Quarterly,
vol. 30, no. 2 (2000), pp. 331–58.
Page 594
Page 594
Index
Note: “J.P. Morgan & Co.” refers to the New York firm and “the Morgan
partners” refers to the New York partners.
1907, 44
Wall Street. See J.P. Morgan & Co.
Academy of Political Science, 309
Addis, Charles, 31, 78
advertising, 49, 50
Agar, Herbert, 314
Ahamed, Liaquat, 84
Aldrich, Winthrop, 210, 211
bank reserves dispute, 306
Glass–Steagall, 232
newspaper coverage, 219
Alexander, Henry C., 329, 330
Alleghany Corporation, 94, 95, 112, 311, 312
Allen, Frederick Lewis, 340
Lamont, Thomas W., 35
Morgan–Van Sweringens relationship, 242
power of J.P. Morgan & Co., 12, 71
Wall Street Crash, 92
America’s Sixty Families (Lundberg), 315
Page 595
Page 595
American Bankers Association Journal, 129
American Banking Association (ABA)
Banking Act of 1935, 246, 247
Depression, 154
Morgan partners, 238
New Deal hostility, 238
Roosevelt administration, 240, 253
American capitalism
gold standard, 43
J.P. Morgan & Co. dedication, 260
Morgan dedication to, 349
perceived threats, 206
saved by the New Deal, 303
World War II victory, 348
American Liberty League, 209, 256
American Reparations Commission, 85
American Securities Investing Corporation (ASIC), 188
Anderson, Arthur, 39
ASIC assessment, 189
commercial versus investment banking, 237
images, 40
insider trading abstention, 227
organization memberships, 48
politics, 193
railroad industry, 175
rebuttal to Allen, Frederick Lewis, 242
reputation, 27
roles, 27
Roosevelt support, 232
Wheeler Committee hearings, 312
Page 596
Page 596
Wheeler investigation, 311
Anderson, Benjamin, 306
Anderson, Paul Y., 228
Anglo-American trade pacts, 335
anti-Semitism, 164, 165, 233, 257, 311
appeasement, 331, 335–337
Araki Sadao, 295
Argentina, 191
Armstrong, Hamilton Fish, 268, 297, 344
Astor, Vincent, 242
Atkin, Isaac C., 329, 330
Attack, Jeremy, 106
Atterbury, W.W., 171
Austin, Chellis, 100
Austria, 65
CreditAnstalt bank collapse, 117
debt default risk, 150–151
war debt, 191
Austrian bank crisis, 118
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 120
Morgan partner awareness, 119
Morgan partners, 120
Avery, Sewell, 49
Awalt, Francis, 204
Bacon, Robert, 38
Baker, George F., Jr., 54, 100, 113, 169
Baker, George F., Sr., 54, 100
Baker, Newton D., 225
Baldwin, Stanley, 30, 76, 281
Page 597
Page 597
Ballantine, Arthur, 204
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 119
Austrian bank crisis, 119, 120
board of directors, 106
German financial crisis 1931, 130
German reparations relief, 149
Hoover administration misgivings, 82, 84, 89
J.P. Morgan & Co., 91
J.P. Morgan & Co. support, 108
organization committee membership, 87
organizing committee, 90
organizing committee tensions, 90–91
origins, 72, 76, 77, 78
presidency, 106
statutes and regulations, 91
Young Plan conference discussions, 89
Bank of America, 57
Bank of Manhattan, 326
Bank of the United States, 163, 164, 165, 166
images, 163
Bankers’ Pool, 100, 101, 104, 115
Bankers Trust, 54, 166
German credit exposure, 122
Wall Street Crash, 103
Bankhead, William B., 332
Banking Act of 1933 . See Glass–Steagall Act of 1933
Banking Act of 1935, 245–247
banking system
commercial banks, 55
Page 598
Page 598
concentration, 54
investment banking, 55
pre-Depression problems, 53
Banque de Paris et de Pays-Bas (Paribas)
Austrian bank crisis, 119, 120
Barron’s, 220, 243, 340
Bartow, Francis D., 26, 39
Depression, 168
insider trading, 227
management ability, 244
organization memberships, 48
pre-Crash, 96
reputation, 27
roles, 27
Wall Street Crash, 104
Whitney, Richard affair, 320
Beard, Charles A., 242, 311
Beck, T.H., 279
Beckert, Sven, 2
Beckhart, Benjamin, 47
Bell, Allen, 47
Bell, Elliott, 47, 71, 92, 168, 257
Berle, Adolf, 47, 196, 204, 315, 317
Century Club talks, 315–317
images, 318
suspicion of Morgan partners, 341
Bingham, Robert, 314
Birchall, Frederick, 268
Black, Hugo, 257
Page 599
Page 599
Blyth & Co., 56
bond issues
pre-Crash, 95
bonds
Depression, 188
domestic corporate, 55
J.P. Morgan & Co. record, 265
railway, 170, 172, 173
reparations, 75
Bonnet, Georges, 331
Boyce, Robert, 92
branch banking, 53
Brand, Robert, 269
Brandeis, Louis D., 46
Leffingwell’s views on, 233
Britain
Depression, 335
election of 1931, 145
financial power, 16, 17
German loan repayment suspension, 268
gold standard, 62
gold standard departure, 117, 118, 136, 142
impacts, 142, 148
Morgan partners response, 117
Italian relations, 274
loans to Germany, 266
MacMillan Currency Report, 176
May committee report, 176
Munich agreement, 336
Page 600
Page 600
position on German reparations, 65
pre-war tensions, 330
rearmament, 335
sterling crisis of 1931, 18, 136, 137
American impact, 146
foreign exchange markets, 144
impacts in the United States, 146
J.P. Morgan & Co. responses, 137
loan discussions, 137, 138, 140, 141
Morgan Grenfell, 143
Morgan partners, 137, 138, 140, 141, 143
origins, 143
war debt payments, 200
World War I, 57–60
British capital
United States, 16
British gold standard departure
Britain’s gold standard departure, 117
Broderick, Joseph A., 166
Brooks, John, 39
Brown Brothers & Co., 168
Brown, Lawrence, 224
Nye Committee investigation, 281
Brüning, Heinrich, 120, 121, 123, 270
Burgess, W. Randolph, 77, 155
Butler, Smedley D., 255
call loans, 23, 92, 102, 105
capital flows, 16–18
capitalism
Page 601
Page 601
restructuring plans, 185, 186
Carosso, Vincent, 15, 47, 55, 168, 231
Carter, Bernard S.
assessment of Mussolini’s regime, 277
British sterling crisis of 1931, 141
desire to become New York partner, 328
Paris, 17
Carter, John Franklin (Jay Franklin), 50, 254
Castle, William R., 85
central bankers, 68
Central Republic and Trust of Chicago, 191
Chamberlain, Neville
foreign policy, 305, 335
Morgan partner views on, 335–336
Roosevelt, Franklin D., 337
Chandler, Alfred, 47
Chase National Bank, 54, 210
foreign loans, 56, 122
political donations, 194
Chenery, William, 285
Chernow, 93, 142
Chicago Plan, 246
Childs, Marquis, 9, 255
China, 290, 292, 294, 295, 300
Churchill, Winston, 62
Clark, Delbert, 253
Claudel, Paul, 136
Clements, Kendrick, 82
Coblentz, Ed, 199
Page 602
Page 602
Cochran, Thomas, 24, 40
death, 328
insider trading, 227
organization memberships, 48
political activities, 49
roles, 26
Young Committee report response, 84
Coffin, William Sloane, Sr., 51
Collier’s, 50, 285
Commercial and Financial Chronicle, 105, 110, 130
commodity overproduction, 114
Coolidge, Calvin, 80
Corey, Lewis. See Fraina, Louis C. (Lewis Corey)
Corn Exchange Bank Trust Co.
National City Bank merger, 103
Corner, the. See J.P. Morgan & Co.
Costigan, Edward P., 47, 224
Cotton, Joseph P., 85
Coughlin, Charles, 154, 209
attacks on Wall Street, 250–252
Morgan partner views on, 251
Roosevelt administration, 252, 253
Couzens, James, 174, 202
Crash. See Wall Street Crash
CreditAnstalt bank collapse. See Austrian bank crisis
Crocker, Stuart M., 34
Crowell Publishing, 279
Crowther, Samuel, 185
Cutting, Bronson, 246
Page 603
Page 603
Dabney, Charles. H., 14
Dan Takuma, 294
Davis, John W., 221, 256
Davis, Norman, 63, 65, 239
Japan, 295
Davison, George W., 204
Davison, Henry (Harry) P., 32, 45, 54
Davison, Henry (Harry) P., Jr., 12, 27, 39, 227
Dawes Plan
German payments, 133, 264
loans, 132
Dawes, Charles G., 59
De Sanchez, J.A.M., 77, 90, 91, 110
Dean Jay, Nelson
Austrian bank crisis, 120
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 265
Depression, 160, 185
French aid, 339
German financial crisis 1931, 134
German loan repayment suspension, 267
images, 60
interest in New York partnership, 328
Nazi regime information, 270
Paris, 17
Roosevelt’s election, 195
deflation, 114
Dennis, Lawrence, 186
Depression. See also Hoover, Herbert, Lamont, Thomas W.
1933 financial system implosion, 201
Page 604
Page 604
American financial system crises, 344
bank failures, 163, 167, 169, 215
bank moratoria, 203, 205, 206
bank reserves dispute, 306–308
bankers blamed for, 53, 154, 155, 311, 314
bankers’ relationship to, 156
bond depreciation, 174
bond market, 188
capital crunch, 159
causes, 154
confidence in banks, 203
deflation, 175, 178, 180, 188, 204, 208, 215, 306
deposit declines, 157
domestic corporate security issues, 160
evidence of, 114
fiscal policy, 309
Glass–Steagall Act of 1932, 182
gold reserve, 177, 190
gold sterilization, 308
gold strain, 203
Hotel Astor meeting, 309–310
inflation fears, 306, 308
internationalism, 261
investment banking, 160
J.P. Morgan & Co.
1930 contraction, 157
1931 assets, 157
1933 slump, 160
1933 status, 162
Page 605
Page 605
1935 assets, 243
acceptances reduction, 160
American capitalism, 260, 349
American Securities Investing Corporation (ASIC), 188
analyses of, 202, 205, 345
assessment of other banks, 169
assistance to other banks, 168, 169
attacks on, 314–315
Bank of the United States collapse, 164
banking moratoria, 203
banking practices, 240
blame for, 348
bond market support study, 188
capital impairment, 159
causality views, 187
consulting roles, 169
damage done, 344
deflation, 177, 306
early attitudes toward, 116
failure to anticipate, 162
foreign exchange, 161
foreign withdrawals, 157
Hoover administration relationship, 205
inaction, 249
investment strategies, 159
loans, 160, 161, 241
loans outstanding, 159
memoranda to Hoover, 186, 188
monetary orthodoxy deviation, 206
National Credit Corporation, 173
Page 606
Page 606
partner salaries, 162
partners, 162
policies, 166
railway bonds, 170
remedies proposed, 204
retrenchment strategies, 259
risk aversion, 333
Roosevelt administration, 203
Roosevelt’s election 1932, 206
solutions, 188
stagnation, 327
strength, 204
US government securities, 243
Van Sweringen railroad divestment, 241–243
Van Sweringen railroad empire, 171
war debt views, 189
Michigan banking crisis, 202–204, 205
money supply, 201
money supply increase proposal, 177
Morgan partners
causal assessments, 331
character in confronting, 204
fiscal policy, 309, 310
leadership roles, 204
monetary policy, 310
presidential election, 193
Roosevelt, Franklin D., 208
solution discussions, 304
New York Banks, 215
Page 607
Page 607
New York Clearing House banks, 167, 168
New York Stock Exchange transactions, 161
private banks, 168, 169
proposed solutions, 185
railroad industry, 170, 172, 173, 174, 241
Revenue Act of 1932, 188
short-sales, 182
stock market falls, 184
summer of 1932, 189
US government securities, 159
voluntary banking cooperation scheme, 172
wage cut proposals, 178
Wall Street Crash, 71
war debts debates, 189–192
Dickey, Charles D., 328
Dillon, Clarence, 56
Dillon, Read & Co., 56
Dodd, William E., 265, 271
Dollfuss, Engelbert, 274
Douglas, Lewis, 196
Douglas, William O., 319, 322
Drexel & Co., 24
Drexel, Anthony, 14
Drexel, Harjes & Cie., 14
Drexel, Morgan & Co., 14
Dulles, John Foster, 284
Eastman, Joseph, 242, 243
Eaton, Cyrus, 338
Eccles, Marriner
Page 608
Page 608
bank reserves dispute, 307
Federal Reserve Board, 244
images, 248
reform proposals, 244–246
Economy Bill of 1933, 218
Egan, Martin, 24
Hoover, Herbert, 99, 148
Institute for Pacific Relations, 291
Japan assessment, 295–296
Lamont’s influence in Japan, 291
media, 49
retirement, 299
Emergency Banking Act, 206, 210
Ernst, Morris, 1
European government bond issues, 62
European reconstruction, 63
Ewing, William, 39
insider trading, 227
Morgan Stanley, 248
Pecora hearings, 227
political contributions, 257
roles, 27
Fascism, 255
Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY)
Depression, 174, 184
German financial crisis 1931, 130
Morgan partners, 338
Wall Street Crash, 105
Federal Reserve Board
Page 609
Page 609
bank reserves dispute, 307
direct action policy, 92
Lamont’s criticisms, 98
Federal Reserve system, 44, See also Federal Reserve Board, Federal Reserve
Bank of New York (FRBNY)
Depression, 177, 180
Eccles proposals, 244, 245
financial power redistribution, 57
Glass–Steagall Act, 182
Morgan partner perceptions, 166
non-member banks, 53
open-market operations, 190
pre-Crash, 96
Wall Street Crash, 72
Filene, Edward A., 241
financial press conservatism, 50
First National Bank, 54, 100, 169
First National Bank of New York, 166
Fisher, Irving, 103, 106, 177
Flandin, Pierre-Étienne, 134
Fleming, Harold M., 246
Fletcher, Duncan U., 214, 248
Flynn, John T., 38, 106
Forbes, 340
Forbes, Allen, 185
Forbes, Bertie C., 29, 34
Ford, Henry, 202
foreign loans, 55, 56
Chase National Bank, 56, 122
Page 610
Page 610
federal government interventions, 67
J.P. Morgan & Co., 22
Lamont, Thomas W. on, 56
National City Bank, 56
Fraina, Louis C. (Lewis Corey), 12
France
American loan seeking, 331–333
Austrian bank crisis, 120
Britain’s gold standard departure, 148
capital flows, 17
currency weakness, 66
Dawes Plan talks, 76
economic and military weakness, 331
German reparations, 66
German reparations crisis, 127
German reparations moratorium, 128
gold standard, 18
interwar strength, 147
loans to, 66
pre-war tensions, 330
rearmament, 331, 333, 334
war debt payments, 200
World War I, 57–60
Francqui, Émile, 76
Frankfurter, Felix, 152, 240
banking reform proposals, 198, 199
Leffingwell’s views on, 233
Morgan power, 219
Fraser, Leon
Page 611
Page 611
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 106, 149
Depression, 169
German loan repayment suspension, 265
New York City views, 216
views on Nazi regime, 269
Fraser, Steve, 2
Frew, Walter, 103
Friedman, Milton, 91, 163, 164, 165, 166
Fummi, Giovanni
as Morgan–Italy go-between, 278, 347
Austrian bank crisis, 119
images, 64
interwar period roles, 63
Morgan role review, 278
Morgan withdrawal from Italy, 275
Mussolini dictatorship, 271, 274
value to J.P. Morgan & Co., 278
Vatican business, 272, 280
Garner, John Nance, 230
Gates, Thomas S., 24
George, Lloyd, 138
George, Walter, 288
German financial crisis 1931,
Federal Reserve Bank conference, 133
Hoover administration internal disputes, 133
J.P. Morgan & Co. fears, 132
J.P. Morgan & Co. position, 131
loan renunciation fears, 132
London conference, 133–136
Page 612
Page 612
Germany. See also German financial crisis 1931, Nazi regime
Communist Party (KPD), 120, 121
Dawes Plan talks, 76
Depression, 261
economic and political strain, 120
financial crisis, 130
Hoover moratorium on reparations, 124, 127, 128–130, 131, 136, 152, 192
J.P. Morgan & Co. relations, 66, 270
loans to, 65, 66, 67
reparations bond commercialization, 75
reparations difficulties, 121
reparations payments, 65
Young Plan resistance, 120
Gerstle, Gary, 2
Get Rid of Morgan Society, 250
Giannini, A.P., 57, 246
Gilbert, Parker S., 35
American Bankers Association convention, 48
anti-British animosity, 126
anti-German animosity, 126
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 76, 106
British war debt reform, 141
death, 328
Depression, 186, 206
1933 implosion, 201
bank reserves dispute, 306, 307, 308
Central Republic and Trust of Chicago rescue, 191
gold sterilization, 308
Michigan banking crisis, 202
taxation debates, 310
Page 613
Page 613
war debt views, 193
France, 126
German financial crisis 1931, 132, 133
German reparations, 125, 127, 149
Germany, 270
gold standard, 346
Hoover, Herbert, 346
images, 126
insider trading abstention, 227
legacy, 125
Lippmann, Walter, 229
Morgan partners, 74
New Deal support, 209, 231
partnership admission, 159, 162
Pecora hearings, 226
politics, 194
Roosevelt support, 346
Roosevelt, Franklin D., 206, 215
Schacht, Hjalmar, 126
views on Nazi regime, 269
war debt negotiations, 200
Young Plan conferences, 88, 107
Glass, Carter, 36, 196
Aldrich’s role in Glass–Steagall, 232
banking reform, 198
death threats received, 249
Depression, 177, 179, 180, 181, 202
Federal Reserve system, 180
images, 225, 248
Page 614
Page 614
Leffingwell, Russell C., 181
New Deal, 245
Nye Committee investigation, 282, 288
Pecora hearings, 224
Roosevelt, Franklin D., 199
views on Eccles, Marriner, 245
Glass–Steagall Act of 1932, 182, 185
Glass–Steagall Act of 1933, 207
bankers’ responses, 246
J.P. Morgan & Co.
criticisms of, 208
impacts, 2, 207, 208, 244, 248, 254
modification hopes, 245, 259
obsession with, 346
revision desires, 209
Leffingwell’s views on, 234
Pecora hearings, 230
gold standard, 16, 62
American capitalism, 206
American departure, 146, 217, 218, 256, 346
British departure, 62, 117, 118, 136, 142
impacts, 142, 148
Morgan partners response, 117
European debt default risks, 150
Franco-American relations, 146, 147
Morgan commitment, 185, 201
Morgan partner views, 150–151
pre-Crash, 92, 93
Goldman, Sachs, 165, 168
Page 615
Page 615
Grandi, Dino, 273
Great Conspiracy of the House of Morgan and How to Defeat It, The (Loucks),
52
Grenfell, Edward C., 61
American gold standard departure rumours, 146
at J.S. Morgan & Co., 15
Austria and Hungary debt default risk, 151
British sterling crisis of 1931, 137, 138–139
end of Morgan partnership, 345
German financial crisis 1931, 134, 135
German loan repayment suspension, 267
Labour Party, 86
Morgan, Jack, 31
Pujo investigation, 46
Wall Street Crash, 104
Young Plan conference, 87
Grew, Joseph, 291, 296
Guaranty Trust, 54, 103, 112, 166, 312
Austrian bank crisis, 120
German credit exposure, 122
Harriman National Bank collapse, 216
Hall, Perry E., 248
Halsey, Stuart investment bank, 56
Harriman Brothers, 168
Harriman National Bank closure, 216
Harris, Forbes & Co., 56
Harrison, George, 74
appeals to Federal Reserve Board, 92–93
Austrian bank crisis, 121
Page 616
Page 616
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 78, 91
British sterling crisis of 1931, 138, 140, 141, 146
Depression, 173, 177, 179, 181, 182, 188, 204
German financial crisis 1931, 130, 131
German reparations crisis, 127
German reparations relief, 149
Harriman National Bank collapse, 217
Hoover, Herbert, 173, 184
Italian economic situation, 274
Wall Sreet Panic, 102
Harvey, Ernest, 131
Hearst, William Randolph, 199, 219
Helvering, Guy T., 313
Henderson, Arthur, 89
Herbert, Michael, 96, 132, 272
Hiss, Alger, 37
Hitler, Adolf, 264, See also Nazi regime
holding companies, 94
Hoover administration
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 82, 84, 89
economic deterioration, 154
J.P. Morgan & Co., 81, 205
Wall Street relationship, 149
Young Committee, 79, 83
Hoover, Herbert. See also Lamont-Hoover relationship
address to American Banking Association, 110
assessment of Europe, 82
attacks on bankers, 154, 184
Depression
1932 re-election plans, 182
Page 617
Page 617
failures, 154
receptiveness to Morgan advice, 187, 188
short-selling attacks, 183–184, 188
voluntary banking cooperation scheme, 172–173
Egan, Martin, 99, 148
election, 69
France, 148
German economic-political instability, 121
German financial crisis 1931, 133
German reparations crisis, 127–129
German reparations moratorium, 124
German reparations relief, 149
J.P. Morgan & Co., 80, 205
Laval talks, 148
Laval, Pierre, 148
lobbying of Avery, Sewell, 49
nationalism, 82
opponents, 152
post-Crash bravado, 109
post-Crash schemes, 111
pre-Crash, 96, 99
pre-Crash advice from Robinson, 98
railroad industry discussions, 173
railroad reform, 172
re-election campaign, 194
Robinson, Henry M., 81
Smoot–Hawley Tariff, 110
Van Sweringen brothers, 112
views on Morgan partners, 193
Page 618
Page 618
voluntary banking cooperation scheme, 172
Wall Street views, 81, 177, 205, 346
war debt views, 189, 191, 192
Hopkins, Harry, 239
Hopkinson, Edward, Jr., 12, 24
Hornbeck, Stanley, 292
House of Morgan. See Morgan Grenfell & Co., Morgan & Cie., J.P. Morgan &
Co., Morgan partners
Huddleston, Sisley, 83
Hull, Cordell, 196, 266, 281
Hungary, 150–151
Ickes, Harold, 230
Inoue Junnosuke, 293, 294
Insull, Samuel, 170
insurance companies, 54
interest rates, 235
International Chamber of Commerce, 162
investment banking, 55–56, 95, 160
investment trusts, 97, 98
isolationism, 344
Italy. See also Mussolini dictatorship
Britain, 274
Depression, 261
J.P. Morgan & Co. loans, 271
J.P. Morgan & Co. See also Morgan partners
anti-Semitism, 164–165
as general banking house, 20
assets
Page 619
Page 619
1929, 23
1936–39, 325–327
Austrian connections, 119
Austrian financial crisis, 133
bonds, 20, 22
issues to European governments, 62, 63–66
British sterling crisis of 1931, 144
business dealings, 18
business practices, 18
Butler coup d’état accusations, 255
call money market, 22
capital shares, 26
character and reputation emphasis, 16
Chase National Bank, 211
client relationships, 327
commercial banking selection over investment banking, 237
consolidated statement of condition, 158
co-partnership notice, 12–13
corporate finance business, 21
criticisms, 208
departments, 24
deposit accounts, 19–20
end of 1928, 69
establishment (1895), 14
first incarnation, 14
foreign loans, 22
foreign policy influence, 301
French loan requests, 331
French rearmament, 333, 334
Page 620
Page 620
general banking functions, 20
German financial crisis 1931, 133, 134, 135, 136
German reparations crisis, 121, 122
heavy industry control, 316
Hoover administration, 85
Hoover, Herbert, 80
importance, 3
influence, 1, 44–51
influence decline, 344–345
insurance company relationships, 54
international relations, 43
internationalism, 69, 92, 262
Depression, 205
interwar period, 61, 66, 69
interwar period changes, 2, 18
Italy, 262, 271, 275, 277, 278, 279
Johnson Act compliance, 276, 326, 332, 333, 334
media, 49–52
Nazi regime, 265
New York bank ties, 54
New York City debt, 213
New York Clearing House control claims, 165
New York Stock Exchange, 161, 321
partnership status, 18, 20
politicians suspicious of, 152
power, 57
pre-Crash, 94–96
public image, 40, 44
as working for France illegally, 333
end of 1928, 69
Page 621
Page 621
greed, 228
media attacks on, 219
New Deal–era power, 263
perceived railroad control, 170
power and influence, 338, 344
suspicion of degree of influence, 45–47, 52, 199
railroad industry, 241
relationships with other investment banks, 56
staff importance to the partners, 24
status decline, 340
Van Sweringen railroad debt crisis, 112
Van Sweringen railroad empire, 171, 241–243
Vatican investments, 279
Wall Street Crash, 71, 72
war debt views, 190
Whitney, Richard affair, 321
World War I
functions for the Allies, 57–58
impacts on the company, 58–59
support for Allies, 57
suspicion of roles played, 263, 276
J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc., 303, 304, 329–330
J.S. Morgan & Co., 14
Japan. See also Lamont, Thomas W.
American diplomats, 291
Depression, 261
gold standard, 106
imperialism, 299
J.P. Morgan & Co., 262
Page 622
Page 622
loans made, 291
views on, 293, 294–301
League of Nations departure, 297, 298
Manchuria invasion, 290, 294, 295
military faction, 299
political breakdowns, 294
post-Crash schemes, 111
Roosevelt administration policy, 301
Sino-Japanese War, 300
Jewish New York banks, 164
Johns-Manville Corporation, 227
Johnson Act, 341
Johnson Act of 1934, 275
Johnson, Hiram, 152, 153, 199
Johnson, Hugh S., 344
Johnson, Nelson T., 292, 299, 300
Jones, A. N., 248
Jones, Jesse, 216, 219, 248
Joslin, Theodore, 49, 81, 188
Kahn, Otto, 187
Kemmerer, E.W., 177
Kennedy, Joseph, 323, 324
Keyes, Leonhard, 24, 221
Keynes, John Maynard, 176
Kidder, Peabody, 168
Kindersley, Robert, 144
Kissel, Kinnicutt, 168
Knapp, Joseph, 105
Kotz, David, 47
Page 623
Page 623
Kreuger, Ivor, 170
Krock, Arthur, 51, 323, 324
Kuhn, Ferdinand, Jr., 30
Kuhn, Loeb & Co., 157, 164, 194
Lamont, Corliss, 34
Lamont, Edward, 19, 21, 22, 27, 96
Lamont, Florence, 100, 322, 328
Lamont, Robert P., 111
Lamont, Thomas S., 39
capability, 27
Depression, 167
Goldman Sachs rumours, 165
images, 39
insider trading, 227
New Deal, 231
partnership announcement, 12
racial prejudices, 291
tax scams, 227
Whitney, Richard affair, 321
Lamont, Thomas W. See also Lamont–Hoover relationship
advertising strategies, 49
Aldrich, Winthrop, 211
Aldrich’s reform proposals, 212
American Bankers Association convention, 48
appeasement, 336
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 72, 77, 78, 79, 87, 88
banking capability, 35, 38
banking reform speech, 198
Britain, 33
Page 624
Page 624
British sterling crisis of 1931, 141, 142, 144, 145, 146
capital share holdings, 26
character, 31, 34
China, 298
Clearing House banks, 165
Collier’s influence, 285
commercial banking selection, 238
Crowell Publishing, 279
Davison, Henry P., 32
defences against Nye investigation, 283, 284, 285
Depression, 203
acknowledgement of, 113
Bank of the United States collapse, 166
causes, 189
Central Republic and Trust of Chicago rescue, 191
deflation, 177
First National Bank, 169
Glass’s proposed bill, 181
gold reserve strain, 203, 206
International Chamber of Commerce contributions, 162
J.P. Morgan & Co. policies, 166
J.P. Morgan & Co. roles, 167
meetings with politicians, 183
Michigan banking crisis, 202
post-election optimism, 201
railroad industry, 171, 172, 173, 174
responses to attacks on Morgan, 315
Senate Finance Committee hearings, 202
diplomatic nature, 25
Page 625
Page 625
Dodd, William, 271
European diplomatic efforts 1939, 338
experience with panics, 99
Fascism views, 255
Federal Reserve Board criticisms, 98
Filene’s department store, 241
firm ownership percentage, 329
foreign loans competition, 56
French loan requests, 332
Fummi, Giovanni, 63
German ambassador, 107
German financial crisis 1931, 135
German loan repayment suspension, 267
German reparations crisis, 122, 123, 124
German reparations moratorium, 128, 129
Glass–Steagall, 244
Guaranty Trust board, 54
health issues, 328, 329
Hoover circle’s criticisms, 188
Hoover–Laval talks, 149
images, 32, 85, 286, 318
incorporation, 330
insider trading, 227
international relations interest, 33, 34
internationalism, 63, 115
Italian business, 278
Italian exposure reductions, 275
Italian visit, 279
J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc., 303
Page 626
Page 626
Japan, 291
changing views on, 300, 301
diplomatic efforts, 294–295, 296, 298, 299
Mukden Incident views, 292–293
two Japans theory, 292, 299, 301, 347
views on, 297
Jewish relationships, 165
Johnson Act, 275
Leffingwell, Russell C., 38
life and career, 31
Lippmann, Walter, 229
media, 32, 49, 50, 51
Metropolitan Museum of Art, 51
monetary policy, 93
Morgan Stanley announcement, 247
Mussolini dictatorship, 271
Mussolini meeting, 279
nationalism criticism, 263
Neutrality Act, 341–342
New Deal, 209, 238, 255, 318
Nye Committee hearings, 288
optimism, 35
organization memberships, 48
overliquidity, 329
Pecora hearings, 224, 227, 228, 229, 231, 281
Pecora hearings testimony, 46, 48
political activities, 49
political connections, 338
political influence, 47
politics, 34, 194
Page 627
Page 627
Recession of 1937–38, 314, 316, 319
reputation, 34–35
roles, 26
Roosevelt, Franklin D., 346
assessments of, 210
business leaders discussing the New Deal, 239
foreign policy, 337, 341
hostility to domestic agenda, 322
lack of influence on, 258
memorandum on bond purchases, 243
Michigan banking crisis, 203
nature of relationship, 195, 263
New York City informational updates, 215
Recession of 1937–38 discussions, 319
reform discussions, 213–215
steel industry negotiations, 324, 325
support, 232, 239
views on, 325
Schacht, Hjalmar, 265
Securities Exchange Act 1934, 236
self-understanding, 57
Senate Finance Committee testimony, 152
Sino-Japanese relations, 299
Smoot–Hawley Tariff, 110
Strong, Benjamin, 45
tax evasion, 313
United States Steel Corporation, 49
Van Sweringen brothers article correction, 242
Van Sweringens, 242
Page 628
Page 628
Vatican visit, 280
views on Nazi regime, 269
Wall Street Crash, 93, 96, 100, 104, 105, 109, 111, 114
war debt compromise efforts, 200
war debt views, 189
Wheeler Committee hearings, 312
Whitney, Richard affair, 320, 321, 322
Willkie support, 343
Woodin, William, 213
World War I, 59
World War II, 340, 341
Young Committee report response, 84
Young Plan, 72
Young Plan conference, 86, 87, 88
Young Plan support, 109
Lamont–Hoover relationship, 81, 85, 129
British and French war debt relief, 192, 193
defences of, 192
deflation, 177
Depression advice, 186
Depression agenda support, 182, 185
Depression memorandum, 186–188
Franco-American relations, 148
German financial crisis 1931, 134, 135
German reparations crisis, 123, 124, 127
Lamont–Hoover relationship, 294
pre-Crash advice, 96, 97–99
railroad industry, 171, 172, 173
short-selling, 184
Page 629
Page 629
short-selling argument, 183
trust, 187
Landon, Alf, 257
Lane, Gertrude B., 50
Lausanne Conference, 192, 200
Laval, Pierre, 128
Hoover talks, 148
Hoover, Herbert, 148
Mussolini, Benito, 274
visits to the United States, 146, 148, 152
Layton, Walter, 269
League of Nations, 64, 291, 297, 298
Lee, Higginson, 168, 170
Leffingwell, Russell C.
Aldrich’s banking reform proposals, 212
American Banking Association, 238
anti-war views, 336
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 78, 79
banking interest, 38
British sterling crisis of 1931, 141
British war debt relief, 142
Chamberlain, Neville, 336
character, 37
Dawes Plan talks, 74, 75, 76
Depression, 157, 166, 167, 186, 203
1933 implosion, 201
approach to, 175–181, 185, 205
bank reserves dispute, 306
bankers’ culpability, 198
Page 630
Page 630
deflation, 175, 204, 208, 218, 236
dismissal of Crowther, 185
fiscal policy, 309
gold sterilization, 308
international relationship-building, 190
Michigan banking crisis, 202, 205
open-market policy views, 201
post-election economic concerns, 201
war debt and reparations perspectives research, 190
war debt views, 191, 193
economic thought, 36, 37, 218
experience with panics, 99
French loan requests, 332
French strength analysis, 147
German financial crisis 1931, 136
German reparations crisis, 123, 129
Glass, Carter, 181, 282
Glass–Steagall Act of 1933, 234, 244
gold standard, 346
health issues, 328
Hoover, Herbert, 81, 96, 97, 147, 194, 346
Hoover–Laval talks, 149
Hoover’s attacks on short-selling, 183
images, 33, 41
incorporation, 330
internationalism, 37
J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc., 303
Japan, 297
Lamont, Thomas W., 35, 38
Page 631
Page 631
League of Nations, 297
letter to Lamont on Glass–Steagall, 232–234
life and career, 35
Lippmann, Walter, 229
Morgan partner politics, 193
Morgan partner selection, 328
Morgan survival, 348
Mussolini, views on, 275
Nazi regime loan rumours, 269
New Deal, 208, 209, 240, 254, 310, 342
Nye Committee investigation, 282
Pecora hearings, 227, 228
politics, 36, 194
post-Crash, 110, 114, 115
pre-Crash consternation, 92, 93–94
profusion of banks, 199
roles, 27
Roosevelt, Franklin D.
advice to, 234–236
as principal Morgan contact, 232
banker conduct debate, 197
banking memoranda, 215
criticisms of, 196, 258
economic recovery discussions, 239
foreign policy, 336
gold standard departure, 218
lack of influence on, 258
Money Trust rhetoric response, 197
nature of relationship, 195, 258
Page 632
Page 632
policy concerns, 218
support for, 231, 232, 236, 259, 325, 346
view of, 195–196, 206
Securities Act, 234
Strong, Benjamin, 45
tax evasion scandal, 313
views on anti-banker sentiments, 220
Wall Street Crash, 104
war debt views, 200
Young Committee report response, 84
Lehman, Herbert H., 203
Leith-Ross, Frederick, 86
Leuchtenberg, William, 197, 218
Lewis, J. Hamilton, 332
Lewis, John L., 316, 318
Lindbergh, Charles, 225
Lindsay, Ronald, 281
Lippmann, Walter, 109, 122, 148
Depression, 177, 178
Gilbert, Parker S., 125
Morgan partners, 177, 229
Neutrality Laws, 338
New Deal, 254
Nye Committee investigation, 283
Pecora hearings coverage, 229
taxation opinions, 313
Lloyd, Horatio G., 24
London. See Britain
Long, Huey, 209
attacks on Morgan partners, 219, 230, 252
Page 633
Page 633
attacks on Wall Street, 250–251
Morgan partner views on, 251, 252
My First Days in the White House, 252
political power, 252
Roosevelt administration, 253
Lord Revelstoke, 30, 76, 83
Lowenthal, Max, 311
Lundberg, Ferdinand, 314
Luther, Hans, 130, 131, 149, 266
Lytton report, 290, 296
MacDonald, Ramsay, 86, 88, 89, 140
Manchurian invasion, 290, 294, 295
Marland Oil, 21
Marrinan, John, 29, 227
Matsudaira Tsuneo, 295, 296
McAdoo, William Gibbs, 46, 226, 230, 282
McClure newspaper syndicate, 182
McFadden, Louis T., 46
BIS opposition, 108
Hoover moratorium opposition, 152
Young Plan opposition, 108
McGarrah, Gates W., 104, 106
McIntyre, Marvin, 216
McMullen, James, 307
McReynolds, Sam D., 332
Means, Gardner, 47
media
cinema newsreels, 52
Hearst papers, 50
Page 634
Page 634
New York press, 51
radio, 51, 250, 251
relationships with J.P. Morgan & Co., 49–52
Mellon, Andrew, 85
German economic-political instability, 121
German financial crisis 1931, 134
images, 80
Wall Street Crash, 105
Mellon–Baldwin agreement, 142
Meltzer, Alan, 180
merchant banks, 15
Messersmith, George S., 268, 271
Metropolitan Museum of Art, 51
Meyer, Agnes, 155, 204
Meyer, Eugene, 155, 172, 174
Depression, 177, 179, 204
German reparations crisis, 121, 127
Millis, Walter, 284, 285, 289
Mills, Ogden
Depression, 180, 202, 204
German reparations crisis, 121, 127
Mirrors of Wall Street, The, 34
Mitchell, Charles E., 54, 100, 103
Bartow, Francis D., 327
Depression-era loans, 161
J.P. Morgan & Co. debt, 103
Pecora hearings testimony, 200, 220
Mitchell, William A., 21, 29, 329, 330
Moley, Raymond, 196, 199, 200, 230
Page 635
Page 635
Money Trust discourse, 53, 54
Money Trust rhetoric, 95
Lamont’s dismissal of, 198
Pecora hearings, 229
Roosevelt, Franklin D., 197
Monsma, John Clover, 252
Montgomery Ward, 49
Moreau, Émile, 68
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 91
Dawes Plan talks, 76, 79
Young Plan concerns, 87
Moret, Clément, 134, 141, 149
Morgan & Cie., 63
Austrian bank crisis, 119
British sterling crisis of 1931, 141
Depression, 160, 328
French rearmament, 333, 334
Glass–Steagall compliance, 249
gold, 202
importance, 17
post-occupation of France, 343
World War II, 305
Morgan Grenfell & Co., 63, 109
Austrian bank crisis, 119, 120
British sterling crisis of 1931, 143, 145
Depression, 328
establishment, 15
German financial crisis 1931, 132
German reparations crisis, 121, 123
Page 636
Page 636
Glass-Steagall compliance, 248
gold, 202
importance, 17
partners, 17
pre-war German bank contacts, 66
Vatican business, 272
Morgan partners. See also Gilbert, Parker S., Lamont, Thomas W., Roosevelt,
Franklin D., Morgan, Jack, Leffingwell, Russell C.
additions in 1938, 328
Aldrich’s reform proposals, 211, 212
American Banking Association, 238
American gold standard departure, 256
American Liberty League, 256
anti-Semitism, 164
as American elites, 2
as of December 1928, 25
British gold standard departure, 136
central banker interactions, 68
Chamberlain, Neville, views on, 335–336
commercial banking interest, 327
compensation, 25
conception of capitalist prosperity, 151
concerns post-Roosevelt election, 200–201
conservative internationalism, 342
Coughlin, Charles, views on, 251
death and illness impacts, 328
decision-making processes, 26
Depression
causal assessments, 331
Page 637
Page 637
character in confronting, 204
fiscal policy, 309, 310
leadership roles, 204
monetary policy, 310
presidential election, 193
Roosevelt, Franklin D., 208
solution discussions, 304
dissolution of partnership, 329–330
doubts about Hoover, 146
faith in capitalism, 186
Fascism views, 255
German financial crisis 1931, 133
German loan repayment suspension, 266, 267
German reparations crisis, 127
gold standard views, 150–151
Guaranty Trust, 54
Hoover, Herbert, 345
images, 222
influence overview, 3
insider trading, 227
internal disputes, 40
J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc. roles, 303
Japan connection views, 291
League of Nations, 301
Lippmann, Walter, 177
Long, Huey, views on, 251
Mussolini, knowledge of, 273
National City Bank – and Corn Exchange Bank merger, 103
Nazi regime, 268, 269, 270
Page 638
Page 638
nepotism, 27
New Deal, 240, 255–257, 259
Night of the Long Knives responses, 269
Nye committee hearings, 263, 285
personal contacts, 48
political contributions, 257
politics, 193, 194
post-Crash economic survey, 109
pre-Crash consternation, 92
prestige importance, 265
recruitment, 27
reliance on staff, 24
revisionism analyses, 347
revisionism responses, 262
roles, 26
Roosevelt, Franklin D.
admiration for, 231
domestic policy, 342
foreign policy, 337, 342, 347
gold standard departure, 217
loyalty, 280
monetary policy doubts, 232
relationship between, 258–260, 346, 347
Roosevelt’s election responses, 195
salaries, 162
Schacht, Hjalmar, 270
Securities Exchange Act 1934, 236
selection criteria, 328
senior, 28, 38
Page 639
Page 639
sterling crisis of 1931, 137, 138, 140, 141, 143
tax evasion scandal, 313–314
Wall Street Crash, 115
war debts issue, 200
wartime triumvirate allegiance, 132
Morgan Stanley, 207, 240, 247, 248, 303, 327, 345
Morgan, Harjes & Cie., 14
Morgan, Henry S. (Harry)
capability, 27
deposit account estimates, 19
insider trading, 227
J.P. Morgan & Co.’s business, 20
Morgan Stanley, 248
partner types, 26
partnership announcement, 12
political contributions, 257
pre-Crash, 96
Morgan, Jack
Alexander, Henry C., 329
Allied debt, 68
Anglo-American comity, 62
Anglophilia, 33
anti-Semitism, 164
appeasement, 336
apprenticeships, 14
attacks by the press, 228
authority, 29
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 72, 77, 78, 79, 84, 87, 90–91, 106
Banking Act of 1935, 246
Page 640
Page 640
banking capability, 38
British sterling crisis of 1931, 137–140, 142, 143–145, 146–147
capability, 28
capital share holdings, 26
Chamberlain, Neville, 335, 339
character, 29, 227
Coughlin’s attacks on, 251
Dawes Plan talks, 73, 74, 75, 76, 79, 84
death, 348
Depression, 154, 156, 185
business stagnation, 327
failures avoided, 170
First National Bank, 169
post-election optimism, 201
steel industry discussions, 325
early career, 14
experience with panics, 99
Federal Reserve system, 31
firm ownership percentage, 329
fiscal policy, 309
German ambassador, 107
German loan repayment suspension, 267
Germany, 66
Glass-Steagall impacts, 244
gold standard departure statement, 217
Harriman National Bank collapse, 216
health, 328
Hoover, Herbert, 85
images, 28, 32, 33, 222, 286
Page 641
Page 641
income figures, 58
incorporation, 330
insider trading, 227
internationalism, 115
J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc., 303
Laval, Pierre, 146
leadership style, 18
London, 15, 30
Metropolitan Museum of Art, 51
Morgan Grenfell, 249
Morgan Stanley creation, 247
Muth’s letter, 254
New Deal, 209, 254
Nye committee hearings, 285, 286, 287–288, 289
organization memberships, 48
Paris, 17
partner compensation control, 26
Pecora hearings, 19, 20, 22, 46, 221, 226, 227, 228, 229, 231, 249
photograph with Lya Graf, 227
political connections, 338
political contributions, 257
political fundraising, 194
political influence, 30–31
railroad industry regulation suggestions, 242
Recession of 1937–38, 314
reputation, 28, 29, 30, 31
roles, 26
Roosevelt, views on, 325
salary, 162
Page 642
Page 642
Schacht meetings, 90
self-understanding, 57
Snowden, Philip, 87
State Department, 68
Strong, Benjamin, 45
tax evasion remarks, 312
United States Steel Corporation, 49
Wall Street Crash, 93, 96, 100, 102, 104
war debt views, 190
Whitney, Richard affair, 320
World War I, 57, 59
Young Plan, 72
Young Plan conference, 86, 87, 89
Morgan, Junius S., 13, 14, 15
Morgan, Junius S. III (Junius Morgan), 39
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 78
Banking Act of 1935, 247
bombing injury, 42
capability, 27
images, 33
insider trading, 227
pre-Crash, 96
Wheeler hearings, 311
Morgan, Pierpont
Baker, George F., Sr., 54
business dealings, 18
career, 14–15
images, 85
legacy, 18, 44
London, 15
Page 643
Page 643
Paris, 17
Pujo investigation testimony, 45
railroad investments, 17
Morgan, Shepard, 77
Morganization, 18
Morgenthau, Henry, Jr., 248
bank reserves dispute, 306, 307
French loan requests, 332
gold sterilization, 308
taxation debates, 309
Morrow, Dwight
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 106
death, 148
departure from J.P. Morgan & Co., 24
foreign bond purchases article, 56
German reparations crisis, 127
power, 12
Strong, Benjamin, 45
World War I, 59
Mosely, Oswald, 255
Moses, George, 183
movie theatres, 52
Mukden Incident, 290, 292–293
Munich agreement, 335, 336
Murray, Philip, 316, 318
Mussolini dictatorship
Ethiopian invasion, 274, 277, 290
loans made to, 271
Morgan partner knowledge of, 271, 347
Mussolini, Benito. See also Mussolini dictatorship
Page 644
Page 644
Lamont meeting, 279
peace pretenses, 273–274, 279
political manoeuvering, 273
power consolidation, 271
views on Britain and France, 273
Muth, F.W., 249, 254
Myers, Margaret, 23
“The Myth of Wall Street” (Soule), 52
Nation, The, 228, 246
National City Bank, 54, 200, 212
Austrian bank crisis, 120
Corn Exchange Bank merger, 103
Depression, 203
foreign loans, 56
German credit exposure, 122
Harriman National Bank collapse, 216
Wall Street Crash, 103
National Credit Corporation (NCC), 173, 174
National Share Our Wealth society, 250, 252
Nazi regime, 262
American bankers, 268–269
Czechoslovakia invasion, 336
Dawes and Young Plan loans, 264
Dawes Plan, 264
economic policies, 264
invasion of Poland, 303
loan payment suspension, 264–268
Night of the Long Knives, 269
political-economic crisis, 268
Page 645
Page 645
power consolidation, 264
vulnerability perceptions, 268–270
Neutrality Acts, 276, 289, 290, 341
Neutrality Laws, 337
New Deal, 207, See also Glass–Steagall Act of 1933, Roosevelt, Franklin D.
ABA hostility, 238
American capitalism’s survival, 303
bank closures and reopenings, 210, 216
business and finance responses, 209
business frustrations with, 257
corporate dinner discussions, 239
criticisms, 253–254, 309
J.P. Morgan & Co., 209
Morgan partners, 207, 208, 212, 231
public anger toward bankers, 209
New Republic, The, 199, 217, 221
New York American, 219
New York City, 216
New York Clearing House banks
Depression, 167, 168
Harriman National Bank closure, 216
J.P. Morgan & Co. alleged control, 165
New York City debt, 216
New York Herald Tribune, 51, 230
New York Times, 81, 108, 211, 237, 268, 283
bank reserves dispute, 307
Nye Committee hearings editorial, 289
Pecora hearings coverage, 229
relations with J.P. Morgan & Co., 51
Page 646
Page 646
New York Trust, 166
Newhall, Thomas, 12, 24
Niemeyer, Otto, 151
Nogara, Bernardino, 272, 280
Norman, Montagu, 30
Austria and Hungary debt default risk, 150, 151
Austrian bank crisis, 118, 120, 123
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 90–91, 118
British sterling crisis of 1931, 137
German loan repayment suspension, 266
Gilbert, Parker S., 125
images, 83
interest rates, 92
Morgan partners, 68
pre-Crash consternation, 92, 93
Snowden, Philip, 89
Strong, Benjamin, 45
views on Nazi regime, 269
Young Plan conference, 88
Young Plan talks, 76
Norris, George, 170
Noyes, Alexander Dana, 210, 212
Nye Committee (Special Committee on Investigation of the Munitions Industry),
263, 276
hearings, 285, 287
commercial activities arguments, 288
committee fracturing, 288
J.P. Morgan & Co. success, 288, 289
media coverage, 289
morality arguments, 288
Page 647
Page 647
investigation negotiations, 281
J.P. Morgan & Co.’s strategy, 281–286, 288
mandate, 280
Roosevelt administration resistance, 281
Nye, Gerald
attacks on J.P. Morgan & Co., 283
conduct during eponymous hearings, 285
images, 286
Nye Committee negotiations, 281
O’Brien, John P., 216
O’Connor, J.F.T., 248
Ochs, Adolph S., 167, 229
Once in Golconda (Brooks), 39
Osborn, Frederick, 37, 241
Other People’s Money (Brandeis), 46, 52
Pak, Susie J., 40
Paris Peace talks, 63
partners. See Morgan partners
partnership agreement, 29
Passell, Peter, 106
Patel, Kiran, 262
Peabody, George, 13
Pecora hearings, 19, 21
fairness, 228
images, 32, 33, 39, 225
impact on J.P. Morgan & Co., 208
J.P. Morgan & Co., 221
as surprise, 282
Page 648
Page 648
defences, 265
directorship probes, 224
goals of, 221
impact, 228, 229
influence arguments, 223
investigation themes, 223–224
media coverage, 221
political effects, 230
preferential securities distribution lists, 224, 226, 230
public enthusiasm, 220
publication of statements, 228
questionable financial activities, 226
taxation, 226
Van Sweringens, 241
Lamont, Thomas W., 46, 48, 224, 227, 228, 229, 231, 281
Lamont–Roosevelt discussions, 214
Lippmann, Walter’s newspaper coverage, 229
media coverage, 231
media exposure, 52, 228
Morgan influence question, 46, 208
Morgan partner ire, 227
Morgan, Jack, 19, 20, 22, 46, 221, 226, 227, 228, 229, 231, 249
public response, 220
Roosevelt’s roles, 214
Whitney, George, 21, 162, 221, 226, 228
Whitney, George’s testimony, 162
Pecora, Ferdinand, 19, 39, See also Pecora hearings
images, 225
Morgan partner ire, 227
Page 649
Page 649
understanding of Morgan power, 220
Peek, George, 266
Pennsylvania Anthracite Coal Industry Commission, 316
Perkins, Frances, 197
Perkins, James, 37, 213, 217, 268
Perkins, Nelson, 85, 85
Phillips, Randolph, 27, 280
Poincaré, Raymond, 87
Pope, James, 281, 288
populism. See also Coughlin, Charles, Long, Huey
radio, 250, 251
postwar reconstruction, 43
Potter, William C., 54, 100
Pressman, Lee, 316
private banks, 168, 210–213
Progressivism, 52
Prosser, Seward, 100
Pujo investigation, 45–46, 52
Pujo, Arsène P., 45
Quesnay, Pierre, 87, 88, 89, 107
radio, 51, 250, 251
railroad industry, 95, See also Van Sweringen railroad empire, Wheeler
Committee hearings
congressional inquiry, 243
consolidation, 241
cumulative stock value, 170
Depression, 170, 173, 174, 241, 311
Morgan partner views, 187
Page 650
Page 650
reform needs, 171
sectoral employment, 170
Raskob, John J., 226
Rauchway, Eric, 197, 200
Recession of 1937–38, 303, 314, 316–317, 323
Reconstruction Finance Corporation (RFC), 174–175, 182, 191, 344
Reed, David, 183
Reid, Helen, 51
Reid, Ogden, 51
Republican Party, 82, 194
reputation’s importance, 15
Revenue Act of 1932, 188, 192
Revenue Act of 1935, 253
revisionism, 261, 262, 301, 347, See also Nazi regime, Mussolini dictatorship
Reynolds, Jackson, 90
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 90
Bank of the United States collapse, 166
Britain’s gold standard, 117
Richard Whitney & Co., 26, 161
Rist, Charles, 68, 135, 273
Roberts, Priscilla, 34
Robinson, Arthur, 230
Robinson, Henry M., 81, 89, 98, 187
Robinson, Joe, 202
Robinson, Joseph, 332
Rochester, Anna, 314
Rockefeller, John D., Sr., 102
Rodd, Francis, 270
Roosevelt administration
Page 651
Page 651
ABA scepticism, 240
business world relations, 314
Depression, 305
foreign relations, 276
Glass–Steagall, 230
gold-purchasing program, 232
J.P. Morgan & Co.
Pecora hearings fallout, 230
relationship between, 209–210, 219
Japan policy, 301
populist leaders, 253
Recession of 1937, 309
views on Mussolini, 274, 280
Roosevelt, Franklin D., 95, See also New Deal, Lamont, Thomas W.
1936 re-election, 303
1940 re-election, 345
American outlook, 200
bank reopening policy, 216
cabinet choices, 196, 199
Chamberlain, Neville, 337
Depression
Michigan banking crisis, 203
national income emphasis, 315
origin views, 196
plans for tackling, 207
economic policies, 196, 197, 200, 218
election, 154, 195, 206
foreign policy, 261, 337
French rearmament, 334
Page 652
Page 652
German trade expansion, 266
gold standard departure, 217, 218
Harriman National Bank collapse, 217
Harrison, George, 235
images, 248
Jackson Day speech 1938, 317
Japan assessment, 347
Money Trust rhetoric, 197
Morgan partners, 195–196
nature of relationship, 263, 318
receptiveness to ideas, 258
reform discussions, 212
relationship between, 325
suspicions, 339
U.S. Steel negotiations, 323–325
views on, 196, 210, 218, 234, 258
Neutrality Act, 341
Nye Committee, 281
Pecora hearings, 214
quarantine speech, 263, 301
Recession of 1937–38, 317, 322
Supreme Court packing affair, 312
third term choice, 343
Wall Street relationship, 197, 199, 209, 253, 257, 315
Wall Street supporters, 194
war debt views, 196
World Economic Conference, 231
Rothschild, Edouard de, 165
Rothschild, Guy de, 165
Page 653
Page 653
Rulers of Empire: A Study of Finance Capital (Rochester), 314
rural banks, 53
Sackett, Frederic M., 121
Schacht, Hjalmar
anti-BIS actions, 108
assessments of, 271
difficulties created by, 107
Gilbert, Parker S., 126
images, 83
loan seeking from Morgan partners, 90
Morgan partner assessments, 270
Morgan partners, 68
Nazi regime, 264, 270
Young Plan, 107, 121
Young Plan talks, 76, 77, 79, 83
Schlesinger, Arthur M., Jr., 16, 35, 197
Schuker, Stephen, 66
Schwartz, Anna, 91, 163
Securities Act, 234
Securities Act of 1934, 322
Securities Exchange Act 1934, 236
security affiliates, 214
Sedgwick, Ellery, 50
Senate Finance Committee, 152–153
Sentinels of the Republic, 257
Seymour, Charles, 284
short-sales, 183, 188
Shotwell, James T., 284
Smith, James G., 47
Page 654
Page 654
Smith, Jeremiah, Jr., 77
Smoot–Hawley Tariff, 110, 114
Snowden, Philip, 79, 86, 140
character, 87
politics, 86
Young Plan conference, 87–89
“Soak the Rich” tax, 253
Sokolsky, George, 255
Soule, George, 52
Soviet Union, 330, 348
Spanish Civil War, 331
Stamp, Josiah, 76, 109
Stanley, Harold, 39
capability, 27
images, 33, 41
insider trading, 227
Morgan Stanley, 248
roles, 27
tax scams, 227
Steagall, Henry, 248
Steele, Charles, 24
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 78
capital share holdings, 26
death, 304, 329, 345
insider trading, 227
political contributions, 257
Wall Street Crash, 104
Stettinius, Edward, 54, 58
Stettinius, Edward R., Jr., 324
Page 655
Page 655
Stewart, Walter, 77, 306
Stimson, Henry L., 85
German economic-political instability, 121
German financial crisis 1931, 133, 134
German reparations moratorium, 125
images, 85
war debt views, 189
Stock Exchange Act. See Securities Exchange Act 1934
Stock Exchange practices hearings. See Pecora hearings
stock issues, 55
Stotesbury, Edward T., 24, 257
Stresa front talks, 274
Strong, Benjamin, 31
Federal Reserve system, 44
monetary policy, 93
Morgan partners, 45, 68
Sullivan, Mark, 238
Supreme Court packing affair, 312
Swing, Raymond Gram, 281
Swope, Gerard, 186
T.V. Soong, 298
Takahashi Korekiyo, 294
Tate, Allen, 314
Taussig, Charles, 316
Taylor, Myron
Metropolitan Museum of Art, 51
Myron Taylor, 323
post-Crash, 110
Wall Street Crash, 102
Page 656
Page 656
Temin, Peter, 71
Thomas, Elbert, 155, 218
Time magazine, 51, 104, 289
Tooze, Adam, 264
Traylor, Melvin, 90
Treaty of Versailles, 64
Trimble, South, 311
Tugwell, Rexford, 196, 218, 219
U.S. Steel, 323
Morgan power, 323
Morgan roles in, 316
price cuts, 324
Roosevelt–Morgan discussions, 323–325
Wall Street Crash, 102
United Corporation, 94–95, 170
United States. See also American capitalism
American capital position, 55
British sterling crisis impacts, 146
economic contraction of 1920–21, 36
government securities, 243
World War II, 305, 340
United States Steel Corporation, 49
Untermyer, Samuel, 45
Van Sweringen brothers, 95, 113, 161, 241, 311
Van Sweringen railroad empire, 21, 94, 112, 171, 243
Vandenberg, Arthur H., 172
Vanderlip, Frank, 287
Vaness Corporation, 112
Page 657
Page 657
Vatican, the, 347
external investments, 272–273, 279
Mussolini, Benito, 271
Villard, Oswald G., 81
Viner, Jacob, 306
Walcott, Frederic, 181
Wall Street Bombing, 42–43, 44
Wall Street Crash, 99
aftermath, 110–112
Bankers’ Pool, 100, 101, 104, 115
Black Thursday, 99
Black Tuesday, 100
conditions enabling, 92
Depression, 71
downturn following, 110–111
Federal Reserve system, 72
J.P. Morgan & Co.
assessments, 102
initial assessment, 100
navigation of, 104
optimism, 101
reputation, 104–105
response, 100, 102, 345
roles, 99
Lamont, Thomas W., 93, 96, 100, 104, 105, 109, 111, 114
market activity preceding, 96
monetary policy explanations, 92
Morgan, Jack, 93, 96, 100, 102, 104
National City Bank – Corn Exchange Bank merger, 103
Page 658
Page 658
panic mitigation efforts, 102
political instability, 114, 115
recovery expectations, 105
special dividends in response, 102
U.S. Steel, 102
Wall Street Journal, 243, 312
Waltman, Franklyn, 313
war debts
American views, 191
British perspectives, 190
French perspectives, 190
loan prohibitions, 275
Morgan roles in negotiations, 200
repayment as open question, 200
War Resources Board, 338
Warburg, James P., 219, 245, 246, 247
Warren, George F., 232
Washington Post, The, 226
Wasson, R. Gordon, 24
anti-Nye investigation strategy, 283
media, 49
views on Japan, 299
Whitney, Richard affair, 321
Watson, Edwin, 341
Watt, D.C., 337
Wheeler Committee hearings, 311
images, 40
media coverage, 312
Morgan partner strategies, 311
Morgan partners, 311–312
Page 659
Page 659
topics of inquiry, 312
Wheeler, Burton, 54, 243, 311, 312
Whigham, Charles F.
Austria and Hungary debt default risk, 151
German loan repayment suspension, 267
meetings with Schacht, 90
pre-Crash, 95
war debt negotiations, 200
White, Eugene, 55
Whitney, George, 20
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 78
banking capability, 38
brother’s crimes, 320
character, 39
Depression, 203
Guaranty Trust board, 54
health issues, 328
images, 32, 41, 286
insider trading, 227
internationalism, 63
J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc., 303
life and career, 38
Morgan, Jack, 29
New Deal, 209, 255, 310
Pecora hearings, 21, 162, 221, 226, 228
political contributions, 257
roles, 26, 38
Roosevelt, views on, 325
Schacht meetings, 90
Page 660
Page 660
Van Sweringen railroad debt crisis, 112
Wall Street Crash, 104
Wheeler committee hearings, 312
Whitney, Richard affair, 322
Whitney, Richard, 100, 161, 236, 319–322
Who Owns America? A New Declaration of Independence (Agar and Tate), 314
Wiggin Committee, 135
Wiggin Report, 151
Wiggin, Albert, 100, 211
Willkie, Wendell, 343–344
Winslow, Lanier & Co., 168
Women’s Home Companion, 51
Woodin, William, 196, 204
Lamont, Thomas W., 213
Pecora hearings, 225, 230
World Economic Conference, 231
World War I
American involvement debates, 284
international finance impacts, 62
political impacts, 59
reparations and war debts, 65, 68, 74
World War II
beginning, 303
British foreign policy, 305
France
foreign policy, 305
invasion, 343
Morgan aid, 339
German successes, 343
Page 661
Page 661
J.P. Morgan & Co.
aid to Britain and France, 339–340, 342
attitudes toward war, 340, 343
desire to avoid war, 305
foreign policy discussions, 304
France’s fall, 343
public perceptions of roles, 347
Morgan partners, 342
tensions preceding, 330
United States, 305, 340
violence preceding, 298
York, Edward H., Jr., 248
Young Committee
conclusion, 84
dispute, 83
Hoover administration, 83
Morgan reactions, 84
reparations disagreements, 79
report
British responses, 86, 87
French responses, 86, 87
reduction in payments to Britain, 86
Young Plan, 72
Baden-Baden agreement, 90, 106
conferences, 86–87
end of, 192
French concerns, 87
German payments, 133, 264
German resistance, 120
Page 662
Page 662
J.P. Morgan & Co. support, 108
loans, 132
opposition, 108
reparations relief, 149
second Hague conference, 107
Young, John M., 248
Young, Owen D., 45
Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 77
Bankers’ Pool, 100
BIS presidency, 106
career, 1, 73
German financial crisis 1931, 135
German loan repayment suspension, 265
German reparations crisis, 127
Hoover, Herbert, 84
images, 85, 318
internationalism, 73
Morgan partners, 74
Recession of 1937–38, 316
Young Plan talks, 73, 76, 77, 79
jp_morgan
jp_morgan
Page 1
Page 2
Page 3
Page 4
Page 5
Page 6
Page 7
Page 8
Page 9
Page 10
Page 11
Page 12
Page 13
Page 14
Page 15
Page 16
Page 17
Page 18
Page 19
Page 20
Page 21
Page 22
Page 23
Page 24
Page 25
Page 26
Page 27
Page 28
Page 29
Page 30
Page 31
Page 32
Page 33
Page 34
Page 35
Page 36
Page 37
Page 38
Page 39
Page 40
Page 41
Page 42
Page 43
Page 44
Page 45
Page 46
Page 47
Page 48
Page 49
Page 50
Page 51
Page 52
Page 53
Page 54
Page 55
Page 56
Page 57
Page 58
Page 59
Page 60
Page 61
Page 62
Page 63
Page 64
Page 65
Page 66
Page 67
Page 68
Page 69
Page 70
Page 71
Page 72
Page 73
Page 74
Page 75
Page 76
Page 77
Page 78
Page 79
Page 80
Page 81
Page 82
Page 83
Page 84
Page 85
Page 86
Page 87
Page 88
Page 89
Page 90
Page 91
Page 92
Page 93
Page 94
Page 95
Page 96
Page 97
Page 98
Page 99
Page 100
Page 101
Page 102
Page 103
Page 104
Page 105
Page 106
Page 107
Page 108
Page 109
Page 110
Page 111
Page 112
Page 113
Page 114
Page 115
Page 116
Page 117
Page 118
Page 119
Page 120
Page 121
Page 122
Page 123
Page 124
Page 125
Page 126
Page 127
Page 128
Page 129
Page 130
Page 131
Page 132
Page 133
Page 134
Page 135
Page 136
Page 137
Page 138
Page 139
Page 140
Page 141
Page 142
Page 143
Page 144
Page 145
Page 146
Page 147
Page 148
Page 149
Page 150
Page 151
Page 152
Page 153
Page 154
Page 155
Page 156
Page 157
Page 158
Page 159
Page 160
Page 161
Page 162
Page 163
Page 164
Page 165
Page 166
Page 167
Page 168
Page 169
Page 170
Page 171
Page 172
Page 173
Page 174
Page 175
Page 176
Page 177
Page 178
Page 179
Page 180
Page 181
Page 182
Page 183
Page 184
Page 185
Page 186
Page 187
Page 188
Page 189
Page 190
Page 191
Page 192
Page 193
Page 194
Page 195
Page 196
Page 197
Page 198
Page 199
Page 200
Page 201
Page 202
Page 203
Page 204
Page 205
Page 206
Page 207
Page 208
Page 209
Page 210
Page 211
Page 212
Page 213
Page 214
Page 215
Page 216
Page 217
Page 218
Page 219
Page 220
Page 221
Page 222
Page 223
Page 224
Page 225
Page 226
Page 227
Page 228
Page 229
Page 230
Page 231
Page 232
Page 233
Page 234
Page 235
Page 236
Page 237
Page 238
Page 239
Page 240
Page 241
Page 242
Page 243
Page 244
Page 245
Page 246
Page 247
Page 248
Page 249
Page 250
Page 251
Page 252
Page 253
Page 254
Page 255
Page 256
Page 257
Page 258
Page 259
Page 260
Page 261
Page 262
Page 263
Page 264
Page 265
Page 266
Page 267
Page 268
Page 269
Page 270
Page 271
Page 272
Page 273
Page 274
Page 275
Page 276
Page 277
Page 278
Page 279
Page 280
Page 281
Page 282
Page 283
Page 284
Page 285
Page 286
Page 287
Page 288
Page 289
Page 290
Page 291
Page 292
Page 293
Page 294
Page 295
Page 296
Page 297
Page 298
Page 299
Page 300
Page 301
Page 302
Page 303
Page 304
Page 305
Page 306
Page 307
Page 308
Page 309
Page 310
Page 311
Page 312
Page 313
Page 314
Page 315
Page 316
Page 317
Page 318
Page 319
Page 320
Page 321
Page 322
Page 323
Page 324
Page 325
Page 326
Page 327
Page 328
Page 329
Page 330
Page 331
Page 332
Page 333
Page 334
Page 335
Page 336
Page 337
Page 338
Page 339
Page 340
Page 341
Page 342
Page 343
Page 344
Page 345
Page 346
Page 347
Page 348
Page 349
Page 350
Page 351
Page 352
Page 353
Page 354
Page 355
Page 356
Page 357
Page 358
Page 359
Page 360
Page 361
Page 362
Page 363
Page 364
Page 365
Page 366
Page 367
Page 368
Page 369
Page 370
Page 371
Page 372
Page 373
Page 374
Page 375
Page 376
Page 377
Page 378
Page 379
Page 380
Page 381
Page 382
Page 383
Page 384
Page 385
Page 386
Page 387
Page 388
Page 389
Page 390
Page 391
Page 392
Page 393
Page 394
Page 395
Page 396
Page 397
Page 398
Page 399
Page 400
Page 401
Page 402
Page 403
Page 404
Page 405
Page 406
Page 407
Page 408
Page 409
Page 410
Page 411
Page 412
Page 413
Page 414
Page 415
Page 416
Page 417
Page 418
Page 419
Page 420
Page 421
Page 422
Page 423
Page 424
Page 425
Page 426
Page 427
Page 428
Page 429
Page 430
Page 431
Page 432
Page 433
Page 434
Page 435
Page 436
Page 437
Page 438
Page 439
Page 440
Page 441
Page 442
Page 443
Page 444
Page 445
Page 446
Page 447
Page 448
Page 449
Page 450
Page 451
Page 452
Page 453
Page 454
Page 455
Page 456
Page 457
Page 458
Page 459
Page 460
Page 461
Page 462
Page 463
Page 464
Page 465
Page 466
Page 467
Page 468
Page 469
Page 470
Page 471
Page 472
Page 473
Page 474
Page 475
Page 476
Page 477
Page 478
Page 479
Page 480
Page 481
Page 482
Page 483
Page 484
Page 485
Page 486
Page 487
Page 488
Page 489
Page 490
Page 491
Page 492
Page 493
Page 494
Page 495
Page 496
Page 497
Page 498
Page 499
Page 500
Page 501
Page 502
Page 503
Page 504
Page 505
Page 506
Page 507
Page 508
Page 509
Page 510
Page 511
Page 512
Page 513
Page 514
Page 515
Page 516
Page 517
Page 518
Page 519
Page 520
Page 521
Page 522
Page 523
Page 524
Page 525
Page 526
Page 527
Page 528
Page 529
Page 530
Page 531
Page 532
Page 533
Page 534
Page 535
Page 536
Page 537
Page 538
Page 539
Page 540
Page 541
Page 542
Page 543
Page 544
Page 545
Page 546
Page 547
Page 548
Page 549
Page 550
Page 551
Page 552
Page 553
Page 554
Page 555
Page 556
Page 557
Page 558
Page 559
Page 560
Page 561
Page 562
Page 563
Page 564
Page 565
Page 566
Page 567
Page 568
Page 569
Page 570
Page 571
Page 572
Page 573
Page 574
Page 575
Page 576
Page 577
Page 578
Page 579
Page 580
Page 581
Page 582
Page 583
Page 584
Page 585
Page 586
Page 587
Page 588
Page 589
Page 590
Page 591
Page 592
Page 593
Page 594
Page 595
Page 596
Page 597
Page 598
Page 599
Page 600
Page 601
Page 602
Page 603
Page 604
Page 605
Page 606
Page 607
Page 608
Page 609
Page 610
Page 611
Page 612
Page 613
Page 614
Page 615
Page 616
Page 617
Page 618
Page 619
Page 620
Page 621
Page 622
Page 623
Page 624
Page 625
Page 626
Page 627
Page 628
Page 629
Page 630
Page 631
Page 632
Page 633
Page 634
Page 635
Page 636
Page 637
Page 638
Page 639
Page 640
Page 641
Page 642
Page 643
Page 644
Page 645
Page 646
Page 647
Page 648
Page 649
Page 650
Page 651
Page 652
Page 653
Page 654
Page 655
Page 656
Page 657
Page 658
Page 659
Page 660
Page 661
Page 662