Page 1
Page 1
L
Pp.
FilLd
£
Page 2
Page 2
SEN
age
gg 3
SS
DEST
Nits core
MILLS COLLEGE
LIBRARY
e
Gift
of
a]
Page 3
Page 3
Page 4
Page 4
Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2024
https ://archive.org/details/ochranarussianse0000atva
Page 5
Page 5
THE OCHRANA
THE RUSSIAN SECRET POLICE
Page 6
Page 6
Page 7
Page 7
ah
Pe
cx
i
=
-
-
e
-
Page 8
Page 8
A Maker or Bomess
Page 9
Page 9
THE OCHRANA
THE RUSSIAN SECRET POLICE
BY
Vasile .
Alek
ps
aS
Mel eVASSI
LY EV
THE LAST CHIEF OF POLICE UNDER THE TSAR
EDITED AND WITH
AN INTRODUCTION BY
RENE FULOP-MILLER
AUTHOR OF “‘RASPUTIN : THE HOLY DEVIL"
WITH 47 ILLUSTRATIONS
PHILADELPHIA AND LONDON
J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY
MCMXXX
Page 10
Page 10
COPYRIGHT,
1030;
BY
J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY
PRINTED?
TN Oe ELE
UNITED
STATES
OF
AMERICA
FIRST
EDITION
.
-
.
.
ete
>
+
Jie
ef
.
ee
et
*
ww
8 as
a
ee)
SS gates
SF
Sut
sts
as
.
.
:
Se:
>
.
e
ee
“
°
<
coe
Sete mw we
rene
“ete?
Page 11
Page 11
ory
75413
CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
By René FUiGp-MIitieR
AuTHor’s INTRODUCTION
CHAPTER I
Functions of the Ochrana—The External Agency—Qualities re-
quired of Police Spies—Technique of Observation—Myedni-
kov’s School—His Special Section—Suppression of a Bomb
Factory
CHAPTER II
Secret Collaborators or Assistants—Traitors by Conviction—Secret
Rendezvous—Zubatov:
his Work and
his Death—Revolu-
tionary Counter-espionage—Police
Specialists in all Revolu-
tionary Movements
CHAPTER III
Agents Provocateurs and Provocation
(Direct Incitement)—The
Tell-tale Misprint—Police Agents as Conspirators—Organiza-
tion and Procedure of the Revolutionaries—Secret Printing-
presses—Anarchists and Terrorists—A Frustrated Plot against
the Life of the Tsar
CHAPTER IV
The Central Agency—The Azef Affair—The Chief of Police on
Trial—Psychology of the Traitor—Murder of Colonel Karpou—
Explosives in the Tableleg—Assassination of the Prison Gov-
ernor—A Murderess with the Dynamite in her Corsage—Dread-
ful End of Stolypin, President of the Council
CHAPTER V
A Police Gazette for the Tsar—The Black Cabinets—Invisible Writ-
ing—A Master in Decoding—The Cipher of the Ochrana—
Burtsev unmasks his Friends—Friends and Foes of the Ochrana
CHAPTER VI
The Government and the Jewish Question—The Part played by the
Jews in preparing the Way for the Revolution—Were the Jews
5
13
35
37
53
63
73
90
Page 12
Page 12
6
CONTENTS
in Russia oppressed?
—T he Problem of Settlement—Evasion of
Military Service—Disillusioned Emigrants—The New York
Council of the Jewish People—Intrigues in America
CHAPTER VII
Russian Dissenters—Church Dispute over the Spelling of the Name
of Jesus—The Tsar as Antichrist—Communist Sects—T
he Gos-
pel of Sin—Shocking Self-inflicted Mutilations—T
he Dissenters
and Leo Tolstoi—The Sect of Tramps
CHAPTER VII
Spy-fever—Campaign against People with German Names—The
Suspicious House-porter
Witte—Katser
Wilhelm’s Aides-de-
camp in Petersburgl—Ineptitude of the Army Command—
Senseless Severity, equally Senseless Leniency—The Ochrana
and War Espionage—Jealousy between War Department and
Police—Disorganization of the Transport Service—The Spy-
fever and the Suchomlinov Case
CHAPTER IX
Rasputin—His Behaviour in Society—His Debauchery—T
he ‘Heal-
ing’ of the Heir to the Throne—Rasputin’s Political Influence
and its Limitations—Petitioners who appealed to Rasputin—
His Relations with the Tsar and Tsarina
CHAPTER X
The Tibetan Doctor Badmayev—The Monarchist as a Protégé of
Bolshevik Seamen—My First Meeting with Rasputin—Ras-
putin and the Duma—Belyetsky’s Intrigues—Rasputin on his
Relations with the Tsar—Fall of General Junkovsky—Bad-
mayev’s Fruitless Warning
CHAPTER XI
Rasputin’s Murderers—The Conspiracy—The Policeman and the
Suspicious Shots—Purishkyevitsh’s Tell-tale Explanation—T
he
Police in Motion—Consultation with the Minister of the In-
terior—Search for Compromising Documents
CHAPTER XII
The First Inquiries made by the Police—The Caretaker’s Narra-
tive—The Mysterious “Little One” —Bloodstains—Interrogation
98
107
113
132
143
154
Page 13
Page 13
CONTENTS
of Manservant—Yussupov’s Attempt to clear Himself—The
Mysterious Party—T
he Shot in the Yard—The Dead Dog
CHAPTER XIII
Inquiries on all Sides—The Snow-boot on the Neva Bridge—Search
for the Body—The Tsarina’s Dismay—Rasputin’s Burial—Y
us-
supov lies to the Empress—Incriminating Telegrams—An Anon-
ymous Letter—Purishkyevitsh flees to the Front—The Tsar’s
Decisions with respect to the Murderers—Opposition of the
Grand Dukes—Murderers exiled
CHAPTER XIV
From Nthilism to Socialism—Maxim Gorky’s Bombing School—
Revolutionaries as Patriots—Lenin works to bring about De-
feat—T
he Ochrana suppresses a Revolutionary Meeting—Gutsh-
kovu’s Disastrous
Activities—Rise
of a Pushing
Politician
—Gutshkov’s Hatred for the Tsar—Case of the Yoffe Sisters—
Order No. I
CHAPTER XV
My Appointment as Chief of the Police—Conversations with Pro-
topopov, Minister of the Interior—Varied Impressions made
upon me by Members of the Government—How Protopopov
became Minister of the Interior—Jealousy of Certain Members
of the Duma—Intrigue against General Kurlov—Reform of the
Ochrana—Audience of the Tsarina—Machinations of Milyukov
and Rodzyanko—Vileness of the Press
CHAPTER XVI
Disintegration of the Army at the Front—Absurd Rumours among
the Troops—Gutshkov’s
“Workmen’s
Group” arrested—A
Commission from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs—Discussions
as to the Suppression of Probable Rebellion—Treacherous Pro-
ceedings of General Russky—Watch kept upon Correspondence
between Duma and G.H.0—Why Kryzhanovsky did not be-
come Minister of the Interior—Threatening Excitement
in
Petersburg—Arrest of Bolshevik Leaders—Last Cabinet Meet-
ing before the Revolution
CHAPTER XVII
The Morning of the Revolution—Mutiny and Murder in the Bar-
racks—The Mob storms the Prisons—The Police Headquarters
7
163
171
179
191
205
Page 14
Page 14
8
CONTENTS
in Danger—Criminals destroy the Records—The Revolution
completely victorious—Traitors among the Generals—Gutsh-
kov’s Revenge—The Tsar abdicates—Two Loyal Commanders
CHAPTER XVIII
Difficult Plight of the Imperial Officials—I go to the Duma—My
Arrest—Companions
in Misfortune—A
Disturbed Night—
Kerensky asks Questions—Transference
to the Fortress
of
Peter and Paul—From Prison Governor to Prisoner—My
quon-
dam Subordinate searches me—Kerensky as a Comedian—
Prison Régime then and now
CHAPTER XIX
The Revolutionary Régime in the Fortress—Psychological Effect of
Solitary Confinement—Easter in Prison—Cross-examination of
Protopopov—The
Extraordinary
Commission—I
write
my
“Confession”
—T he Socialist Member of the Duma as Agent of
the Ochrana—Protopopov’s “Nonsense” —Purposeless Inquiries
CHAPTER XX
Days of Terror—Awaiting a Catastrophe—The July Bolshevik Re-
volt—The Provisional Government wishes to have my Assis-
tance
against Lenin—My “Crime”
ts at last discovered—
Senseless Accusations—My Defence
CHAPTER XXI
Some Pleasant Recollections of my Imprisonment—Kindly Guards—
A Revolutionary against his Will—The Other Side of the Pic-
ture: in the Power of the Murderer—Dismissed from the
Fortress—T
he Bolshevik Revolution—Flight of the Investigating
Commission—Liberated at last—Vicissitudes in Kiev—Pursued
by Fate—Proposal from the Tsheka—A Railway Porter in
Paris—Spirit of the Russian Emigrants
CHAPTER XXII
The Tsar’s Pocket-Handkerchief—False Notions about the Ochrana
current abroad—Real Significance of Banishment to Siberia—
Humane Treatment of Political Prisoners in Old Russia—
Ochrana and Tsheka—How the Bolsheviks mislead Foreign
Visitors—Burtsev recommends that the Ochrana should be
maintained—U nsuccessful Recruiting
216
228
239
250
258
268
Page 15
Page 15
CONTENTS
CHAPTER XXIII
The Tsheka and its Founder, Jerzhinsky—Origin and First Or-
ganization of the Tsheka—Agents of the Red Terror—Com-
missaries of the People themselves the Prisoners of the Tsheka
—Economic Espionage—Summary Judicial Procedure—‘Pro-
vocation” —“Entered
under
Outgoings’—Postal
Censorship
—Siberia to-day—Hostage System
_ CHAPTER XXIV
Collapse of Communist Economic System—“Abolition” of Tsheka
—Revival
under another Name—Refined Methods
of the
G.P.U.—Farce of Bolshevik Administration of Justice—G.P.U.
Foreign Service—Spying upon Russian Refugees and Foreigners
travelling in Russia—The “Eye of Moscow”—Secret Section of
G.P.U.—Continued Persecution of Monarchists
CHAPTER XXV
Social Conditions in Bolshevik Russia—New Aristocracy and New
Bureaucracy—Persecution of Religion—Persecution of Jews—
Symptoms of Disintegration in Bolshevik Régime—Cleavage
in Communist Party—Red Army—Discontent among Peasants
—Reasons for Continuance of Soviet Rule—Above all, Organ-
ized Fear—Europe’s Responsibility—Appeal to the West
INDEX
275
283
292
297
Page 16
Page 16
Page 17
Page 17
ILLUSTRATIONS
A Maxer oF Bomps
Frontispiece
CureF OFFICIALS OF THE PETERSBURG OcHRANA
38
A Boms Factory DISCOVERED BY THE OCHRANA IN KuoKAata, IN
FINLAND
46
AFTER THE ExpLosion oF A BomB IN THE ARMENIAN BAZAAR IN
TIFLIs
47
Po ttc
ARREST A REVOLUTIONARY
54
BEForE THE PoLicE ARRIVED
55
Sazonov, Murverer oF Pienve, as A Convict
70
Katyartv, MurpErerR oF THE Granp DvuxkE SErcyE! ALEXANDRO-
VITSH
7°
Bopy oF PLenve, MrnisTER oF THE INTERIOR, SHATTERED BY A BomB
71
ViapIMir BurtTsEv
74
Evno AZEF
74
A. Lopucuin, Heap oF THE Porice DEPARTMENT
75
DEsTRUCTION WROUGHT BY THE ExpLosION AT STOLYPIN’s VILLA
84
AFTER THE UnsuccessFUL ATTEMPT ON THE LIFE OF STOLYPIN—
SHATTERED CARRIAGE USED BY THE CONSPIRATORS
85
Tue Cross worN BY STOLYPIN SHOT THROUGH BY THE BULLET
88
Dimitry Bacrov, THE MurRDERER OF STOLYPIN
88
Mourper oF GENERAL Karpov—SeEcrET RENDEZVOUS AFTER THE Ex-
PLOSION
89
GENERAL SUCHOMLINov, MINIsTER OF War IN IQI4
130
Rasputin
131
Tue Son oF Nicuotas II
136
PLAYING-CARD CONFISCATED BY THE OCHRANA
137
GeneraL Kurtov, ComMMANDER OF THE GENDARMERIE, WITH Dye-
DYULIN, CONTROLLER OF THE IMPERIAL HousEHOLD, AND GERARDI,
THE CHIEF OF THE PaLace PoLice
144
Exirep Anarcuist’s Prison Carb
145
Tue Tsar AND THE T'SARINA LEAVING THE CHURCH
172
Mempers of THE Pererssurc WorkMEN’s Councit (Sovier), IN-
CLUDING TROTSKY, ON THEIR Way To PENAL SERVITUDE IN 1905 173
Laie
Page 18
Page 18
ies
ILLUSTRATIONS
ScHLUssELBURG ForTREssS
CouRTYARDS IN THE ForTRESS OF SCHLUSSELBURG
A. GursHkov, War MINISTER UNDER THE PROVISIONAL GOVERN-
MENT
JERZHINSKY AS A ConvicT
Fortress OF PETER AND PAUL
Protopopov, Last MINIsTER OF THE INTERIOR UNDER THE TSAR
MriyuxKov, Forrtcn MINISTER UNDER THE First REVOLUTIONARY
GovERNMENT
RopzyANKo, PRESIDENT OF THE DuUMA
"TsHERNOV
PrIsON OF THE OcHRANA FIRED BY REBELS
GENERALS ARRESTED BY MUTINEERS
SOLDIERS OUTSIDE THE Duma IN Marcu 1917
Prettyura, HeETMAN oF THE UKRAINE
PoxiticaL ExtLes In SIBERIA UNDER THE 'T'SARDOM
PouiticaL ExiLes in AKATUISK PRISON
PoxiticAL ExILEs RETURNING FROM SIBERIA IN IQI7
NapesHpA KonsTANTINOVA KrupsKAyA, LENIN’s WIFE
Trotsky IN Prison
TsHEKA HeapquarTers in Moscow
JERZHINSKY, HEAD oF THE TSHEKA
Borts SavinkKov, REvoLUTIONARY SOCIALIST, BEFORE THE BoLsHEVIK
TRIBUNAL
Granp Duke Cyrit VLADIMIROVITSH, PRESENT CLAIMANT TO THE
Russian THRONE
184
185
190
190
191
202
202
203
203
218
219
228
229
270
271
293
273
273
276
277
290
291
Page 19
Page 19
=
=
= BY
ke
@)
ae
Kia
ne)
NQ
me
a en
|
- @)
Page 20
Page 20
Page 21
Page 21
INTRODUCTION
O Dionysius, thy tyrant’s robes are but a shroud!
Empedocles to Dionysius of Syracuse
ODERN man looks proudly upon the organization of
the constitutional state as peculiarly his own creation.
That the brutal elements in man have been able more rapidly
and more skilfully to take advantage of even that institution
than the humaner part of him has done must be regarded
doubtless as one of the most characteristic traits of human
nature.
In every political organism poor relief and the care of the
sick were still in a state of anarchy, being left to the accident
of individual compassion or the operation of pious communi-
ties, long after matters connected with spies, informers, im-
prisonment, torture, and execution had reached an admirably
high degree of organization.
And it must be said that this officially sanctioned inhu-
manity has very rarely failed to justify itself in its own eyes
by some ‘lofty idea’; nay, it would almost appear that ‘lofty
ideas’ are most intimately related to barbarity, and absolutely
require for their realization hangmen and spies.
In subservience to the idea of the Roman Empire, the fol-
lowers of the religion of love were tracked down in their
catacombs and thrown to the lions. Again, the idea of Chris-
tian love seemed to demand the espionage system of the In-
quisition: for his soul’s salvation every one had to be put on
the rack who had excited suspicion by singing Arab songs,
by dyeing his finger-nails with henna, by indulging in too
frequent baths, or even by too strict observance of the Sab-
bath. In honour of St Mark the secret tribunals of Venice
called for their human sacrifices.
I5
Page 22
Page 22
We
THE OCHRANA
And in the name of reformed, evangelical Christianity
Cromwell’s police arrested all who took part in popular merry-
making, all who frequented theatres and taverns, and all who
had been guilty of swearing a full round oath. At that period
strict Puritan authorities gave orders to burn all pictures in the
royal galleries in which Christ or the Virgin Mary was repre-
sented; Greek statues were mutilated because of their sensual
charm; adultery was punishable by death; an enactment or-
dered maypoles all over England to be cut down and play-
houses to be destroyed.
An Austrian police administration, again, had the closest
watch kept upon all persons who had aroused the distrust of
the higher powers by their inclination toward philanthropy,
for this, in the view of the Head of the Police at the time, was
calculated only “to shake to its foundations the Christian
religion.”
While the French Revolution was putting an end to the
intolerance and cruelty of persecution as practised by absolute
authority in Church and State, it was at the same time spying
upon, imprisoning, and guillotining all citizens who perchance
were unwilling to believe in the ideas of the rights of man—
liberty, equality, fraternity.
More than once, from such facts as these, thinkers have
drawn the conclusion that cruelty constitutes a feature inherent
in human nature. Just a short time ago Professor Siegmund
Freud, on the strength of his profound knowledge of psycho-
analysis and of the psychology of nations, expressed his con-
viction that cruelty, being one of the most powerful psychic
impulses, has incontrovertibly taken a very large share in the
creation of forms of social arrangements generally. In Freud’s
view man is not “a gentle being in need of love”; rather is he a
being for whom his neighbour is always “a temptation to sat-
isfy his aggressiveness upon him, to cause him pain, to torture
Page 23
Page 23
THE OCHRANA
17
him, and to kill him.” Whatever new paths may be taken by
civilization in its development, we shall have to expect, accord-
ing to Freud, that cruelty—that “indestructible trait in human
nature’—will follow it everywhere.
But nowhere does this scientific deliverance find such direct
and striking confirmation as in the institutions of the Russian
State. Not that the propensity to cruelty has completely van-
ished from other lands; but in the West civilization—that
heroic struggle of the beast to reach the stature of man—has
already so far obliterated the savage traits that it requires the
keen eye of an expert still to be able to discern, in the sub-
limated forms of government and social institutions, the pas-
sion for torturing others and the thirst for blood.
In Russia, on the other hand, cruelty has preserved, right
into the twentieth century, its primitive and unadulterated
type. Maxim Gorky, one who possesses the most intimate un-
derstanding of his own people, is of opinion that the Russian
is by no means the good-natured, truly humble, and Christian
man that nineteenth-century literature was so fond of repre-
senting him to be; on the contrary, cruelty is just as much “the
most prominent feature of the Russian national character” as
humour is of the English character. “To whatever party Rus-
sians may belong, in their cruelty they are all alike.”
Since the beginning of the eighteenth century the Muscovite
Empire has indeed made eager attempts to share in the achieve-
ments of the West. Peter the Great himself aimed at trans-
planting into his own land all the institutions he found in
European civilization; but what especially struck a chord of
sympathy in his Russian heart was the method of executing
criminals by breaking on the wheel, which he came across for
the first time in Konigsberg and straightway introduced at
home.
When a few years later it was already beginning to be good
Page 24
Page 24
18
THE OCHRANA
form for Governments to abolish the death penalty, the Em-
press Elizabeth, not wishing to be behindhand, declared that
in future she would not have anyone executed. However, for
this concession to foreign taste her Russian nature immediately
found compensation in such an excessive use of the knout as
must certainly have had the same deadly effect.
Catherine II was certainly among the few crowned heads
of Europe who acknowledged the ‘rights of man’ and the
doctrines of the age of ‘enlightenment.’ When Cesare Beccaria
published his famous denunciation of secret judicial proce-
dure, torture, and tyranny, Catherine had him invited to her
Court and offered him an important office in her entourage.
Even though it had required the murder of her husband to
enable her to ascend the throne, and the exile and imprison-
ment of countless victims to keep her there, it cannot be denied
that this Empress did show a certain sincere aspiration after
humanity. This was perhaps all the easier for her, because she
had not one drop of Russian blood in her veins.
Occasional moments of enlightened humanity are to be
noted in later Tsars too. But in comparison with the serious-
ness and consistency with which they have always employed
the most despotic means to maintain their authority, such
humane decrees really look more like fleeting whims, excur-
sions into a spiritual land in which these Russian rulers are
not at home. In like manner Russian history has always been
marked by compensation for any excess of humanity: Catherine
was followed by the demented Paul, and Alexander I by the
tyrant Nicholas I.
This Nicholas achieved the most truly Russian creation by
endowing cruelty with definite form, with permanent ma-
chinery set up by the State and most exact in its working. In
his reign arose the Corps of Gendarmerie, that mighty or-
ganization for the secret supervision of the whole Empire, in
Page 25
Page 25
THE OCHRANA
19
fear of which not only private citizens but all other Govern-
ment departments trembled. The same Tsar also brought into
being the now famous “Third Section” of his Court Chancery.
All police matters were concentrated in that Third Section, the
chiefs of which were in a position to decide at their own
discretion the fate of every Russian subject.
Thenceforth any Russian might have the experience of re-
ceiving a call from a policeman and an intimation to set off
within three hours for Archangel or Simbrisk. Such a decree
issued by the Third Section admitted of no protest, no defence,
and no appeal.
Then, in the eighties of the nineteenth century, under the
influence of Liberal ideas, the Third Section was suppressed;
but immediately its place was taken by the Ochrana, the rights
and duties of which were only in name, but not in reality, less
than those of its predecessor.
Nor was any change made in the use of the dreaded Tru-
byetskoy Bastion in the Fortress of Peter and Paul, the State
prison in which, from the days of the Dekabrist* revolt, the
actual or supposed ringleaders of revolutionary movements
were kept in strict custody behind iron-bound doors, guarded
by gaolers, double sentries with fixed bayonets, and gendarmes
in their much-feared blue uniform. There were detained in
cells, separated from each other by walls a yard thick, human
beings who often, even after the lapse of years, had not been
brought to trial, because the Government did not know what
charge to bring against them.
Nor was there any change in the katorga—hard labour in
Siberia—a punishment which had to be endured by the exiles
with fetters on hands and feet. Right into the twentieth cen-
1This reference is to a military conspiracy that broke out in December 1825, at
the very beginning of Nicholas I’s reign.—TRans.aror.
Page 26
Page 26
20
THE OCHRANA
tury prisoners’ hands were shackled to the carts used for the
transport of ore in the mines.
All that, although Alexander II soon after his ascension had
made serious attempts to introduce into Russia modern forms
of Western judicial procedure. At first, with admirable zeal
for reform, he had published an edict that actually required
legal proceedings to be held in public, substituted the oral
method of conducting a case for the old system of working
with documents only, and, for graver criminal offences, even
called into existence trial by jury. But Alexander II would not
have been a true Russian tsar if he had not very quickly added
to these foreign institutions a national note.
Thus from the very start political offences were withdrawn
from the jury courts, while publicity in such cases became
very soon restricted, the courts being empowered “to close the
doors.” For ordinary crime the death penalty had indeed been
abolished, but to make sure that revolutionaries should not
happen to share in that benefit, the Government declared the
greater part of the Empire to be permanently in an abnormal
state," thereby conferring upon governors of provinces the legal
right to deal with all political crime by court-martial, which
might at its discretion pronounce sentence of death.
Whenever, therefore, the Russian State brought itself to re-
nounce some traditional form of barbarity, it immediately
created new institutions in which the aggressive instincts of
the Russian character could still find their expression.
If we have any confidence in psycho-analytic inquiry, and
if we see in human sense of justice a system of psychic inhibi-
tions set up against the brutal aggressive instincts that are
innate in man, we shall not be astonished to note that Russian
society, which has only rarely submitted to such inhibitions,
has accordingly a defective appreciation of law.
* Practically equivalent to declaring it to be under martial law—TRANSLATOR.
Page 27
Page 27
THE OCHRANA
eo
B. Kistyakovsky, the famous Russian jurist, refers expressly
to the lack in the Russian people of any clear perception of
the ideal of a person with legal rights, and draws the in-
ference that the Russian, of whatever class he may be, does
not in his heart respect the law and continually tries to break
it, if he may do so with impunity. Even the intelligentsia (the
educated classes), he says, have never fully realized the ideas
of fundamental rights or of the constitutional state, and thus,
in all the literature of jurisprudence in Russia, there is not one
work that has championed any courageous thought in the
realm of law. “Our public consciousness,” he writes, “has
never allowed the ideal of the person with legal rights to
emerge.”
Did not even Russian Socialism, first represented by Plecha-
nov, proclaim from the very beginning the idea of despotism,
and strive to introduce among its adherents a system of com-
pulsion and oppression that corresponded exactly to that of
government by the State Police? Within the revolutionary so-
cieties of Russia in this twentieth century there was continual
talk of the “state of siege,” and “special legislation to deal with
waverers,” while isolated protests like Martov’s passed almost
unnoticed. That is, even to those men who fought for liberty
against autocracy in the state, the idea that the individual has
an inalienable right to liberty in his own convictions and ac-
tions was absolutely strange and incomprehensible.
And, of course, the Russian system of illegality and violence
can also appeal to a ‘sublime idea.’ With the Inquisition, the
Council of Ten in Venice, the Holy Brotherhood in Spain, and
the Committee of Public Safety in the time of the Terror, the
Ochrana has likewise this feature in common, that it attempts
to surround its informers with a halo and the place of execu-
tion with the odour of sanctity; it was “for the well-being of
Page 28
Page 28
22
THE OCHRAXNA
‘
Holy Mother Russia” that the Russian subject was kept under
observation, persecuted, imprisoned, tortured, and executed by
the Police.
This volume of the memoirs of the last Tsarist Chief of
Police, A. T. Vassilyev, is accordingly permeated with the be-
lief in the high calling of the Ochrana and its officials. That
the author of the book was honestly convinced of the moral
justification of the Russian Secret Police and its methods admits
of no doubt whatever, for reliable witnesses vouch for Vas-
silyev’s personal uprightness, and his private correspondence
warrants the conclusion that his opinions were sincere. While
many another ex-official of the Tsarist Police, not so scrupulous
as he, entered the service of the new rulers brought into power
by the Revolution, Vassilyev steadfastly declined such offers,
which were made to him several times over, and preferred to
spend the last years of his life in exile and in the severest
privation. He was absolutely penniless when he died, on De-
cember 31, 1928, in the hospital of Houdon, having previously
found refuge in his dire distress in a home for Russian refugees
maintained by a philanthropic English lady in Sainte-Gene-
vieve-des-Bois.
But to-day we know with equal certainty that almost all, and
particularly the most pitiless, inquisitors of the Middle Ages
were personally of sterling character, models of virtue in their
life and conduct, and staunch believers in their own principles,
and that, when they sentenced their fellow-men to be tortured,
they did so in the assured faith that they were accomplishing
a sublime mission.
And if Vassilyev, in his defence, seeks to prove that the
Ochrana assisted the weak, and that the honest citizen never
had any reason to fear it, we can find parallels for that too.
Has not the Inquisition had its advocates, who can show how
this institution was founded only to protect the weak and how
Page 29
Page 29
THE OCHRANA
23
much more humane and just it was than the practice previously
in vogue of the right of the strongest, or of ordeal by battle or
fire? Nor can it be denied that the great majority of the mem-
bers of the French Revolutionary tribunals were genuinely
convinced of the justice of their decisions and of the usefulness
of their activities in advancing the public weal.
However, in face of such attempts at justification we shall
never be able to command more than Aistorical understanding,
and, despite all the arguments advanced by Vassilyev, the opera-
tion of the Ochrana will always appear to us as a very low
stage in the administration of law, as a relic of medieval times
that, amid the civilization of the twentieth century, produces
the disquieting effect of a foreign body.
It has to be admitted, of course, that a Secret Police service
of the kind rendered by the Ochrana has, as a matter of fact,
existed right down to the present day in all the other countries
in the world. Nearly everywhere Figaro’s saying still holds,
“that the State keeps spies and pays traitors, ever concerned
to palliate the pitifulness of the means by the importance of
the end.” As long as the democratic identification of the will
of the State with the will of the people remains a fiction there
will be secret societies and conspirators, and consequently also
secret agents of the State employed to keep them in check.
But while everywhere else the powers of the Political Police
had long since been limited to keeping suspects under observa-
tion, the Ochrana, of its own authority and under the thinnest
of veils, took upon itself the punishment of accused persons
by administrative process, thus preserving in judicial proceed-
ings that secrecy which elsewhere had long been banished
except from the actual supervision service.
In his History of Russia Michael Pokrovsky describes with
sharp and telling irony the abuse that marked the practice of
this secrecy in Tsarist Russia.
Page 30
Page 30
24
THE OCHRANA
The proceedings of the court were strictly secret. Not only did
they take place behind closed doors, but in the hall of justice there
was neither defending counsel nor accused present. Only documen-
tary evidence was placed before the judges, and on the strength of
that the sentence was pronounced. Not judicial proceedings only were
secret; the whole organization of the state was secret. All sittings of
the higher authorities were held in camera; the most important ones
were especially
secret. Almost every
official paper was marked
“secret”; in the Foreign Office there were no documents at all that
were not secret. If they wanted to indicate that something was really
to be kept secret, it was marked “very secret,” because the word
“secret” by itself had lost all meaning.
In contrast, reflect that it was as far back as the beginning
of the thirteenth century that England had won its Magna
Charta, the provisions of which represented a far-reaching
defence of personal liberty against undue interference on the
part of police or autocracy, for does it not state that no free-
man may be arrested, outlawed, exiled, or injured without
legal sentence, pronounced in accordance with the law of the
land? And even though this protection at first extended only
to the classes of freemen, the signing of Magna Charta by
King John was nevertheless a step of vital importance, for
from that time onward the English people were unwearied in
their efforts to extend these fundamental rights and to ensure
the liberty and inviolability of the person by ever new guaran-
tees. Whenever after that any attempt was made to tamper
with those chartered liberties, the whole country reacted with
such energy that the final outcome was never limitation, but
rather some extension of those fundamental rights.
When Charles I ventured to betray absolutist leanings he
was very soon obliged to accept the Petition of Right, recog-
nizing that no one could be imprisoned without the legal
forms being observed, or be condemned by any but the regular
courts. On a similar occasion, when complaint was again being
made of arbitrary imprisonment, Charles II had to sign the
Habeas Corpus Act, according to the terms of which every
Page 31
Page 31
THE OCHRANA
25
prisoner must, within twenty-four hours, be brought before
the appropriate magistrate, whose duty it is to decide freely as
to the legality of the arrest.
These principles, which the English people in its struggle
with autocracy had successfully affirmed, were cast into sys-
tematic legal form by English philosophy as far back as the
seventeenth century. That was the famous doctrine of the
rights of man, soon after to be adopted by the French Ency-
clopedists, who made it the basis of their whole political theory
of the State. Locke, for instance, laid it down as a principle
that the legislative and the executive powers must never be
united in the same hand; and Montesquieu in his L’Esprit des
lois sought to develop and to justify that teaching.
It must be admitted that, although the French Revolution
set out to make the philosophic idea of human rights the basis
of a new and better society, it certainly did not manage to
dispense with the executioner. However, it did take a signifi-
cant forward step, for, however barbarous their sentences may
have been, the Revolutionary tribunals pronounced them after
going through a form of public procedure. And it was the
Revolution that, for the first time, expressly laid a constitutional
foundation for the separation of the powers of the State—
legislative, executive, and judicial.
By thus depriving cruelty of the right to secret activity, the
breath was, so to speak, knocked out of it. In contrast to the
vast pretensions of the Revolution, the publicity of judicial pro-
ceedings was certainly a very tiny achievement, but whoever
has realized how very slowly the progress of civilization goes
on will not underestimate even this little step. Since the French
Revolution no civilized people has for any length of time
tolerated the persistence of the secret and arbitrary adminis-
tration of justice, and all attempts directed to that end have in-
fallibly been broken on the indignant resistance of the nations.
79413
Page 32
Page 32
26
THE OCHRANA
More and more it has become an accepted principle that, apart
from the legally determined relations between the State and
its citizens, there is no power that can confer upon a Govern-
ment the right to interfere with the liberty of the individual.
Untouched by this development, however, the Russian
Ochrana, even in the twentieth century, clung to the system
of arbitrary violence and the use of secret administrative penal-
ties, and consequently the concessions made by it to European
conceptions of freedom and justice remained, right down to the
end, only apparent.
Even if all the assertions made by the Revolutionary and
Liberal Press about the tyranny of the Ochrana were, to begin
with, to be brushed aside as distorted and biased, it still ad-
mits of no doubt that the Russian police system, by its mere
infliction of the sentence of “administrative banishment” with-
out public trial, forfeited the right to repudiate the charge of
being a detestable and reactionary institution.
But, further, many of the accusations made by parties hos-
tile to the Government do bear the strictest examination. It
is quite certain that the Ochrana adopted practices utterly ir-
reconcilable with European ideas of freedom and law. It has
been proved that in the Ochrana offices in Riga in the years
1905 and 1906 a great many persons suspected of revolutionary
tendencies were tortured in the most barbarous fashion, with
the knout, with pincers, with clubs, and with leather belts.
Similar incidents occurred in Mohilyev, Smolyensk, and Yeka-
terinburg.
And the corporal punishment and the fettering of convicts
were still permissible according to law even in the twentieth
century. In the Petersburg Weekly Medical Journal the Rus-
sian physician Dr. Lobas reports:
Flogging with the knout is not the only dreaded chastisement in
the prisons of Siberia; ordinary beating with rods is quite as harm-
Page 33
Page 33
THE OCHRANA
27
ful in its effects. That even people suffering from serious illness
do not escape this infliction is unfortunately nothing but the naked
truth. In the district of Korsakov a pregnant woman was beaten for
so long that she died.
A. T. Vassilyey, it is true, endeavours in part to dispute such
facts, in part to present them in a favourable light. According
to his exposition of the matter, the Ochrana was an extremely
humane institution within which deeds of cruelty and arbitrary
acts never occurred. In his view the only admissible system in
Russia was the Tsardom, and he was convinced with all his
soul that, for the maintenance of that system, the Ochrana was
indispensable, his only regret being that the Police did not
proceed with such strictness as would have prevented the ac-
cursed Revolution. According to him, the use of the adminis-
trative banishment
to Siberia was the kindliest form of
self-protection that could be adopted by the State. The secret
censorship of letters in the Black Cabinets of the Ochrana,
whose existence is frankly admitted, he regards as being ab-
solutely necessary in the interest of the common weal. And
cases of infringement of the law and other irregularities
brought home to individual Police officials do not affect the
excellence of the system itself.
If such a presentation is frequently in contradiction of facts
that have been proved, it is obvious that we must settle the
conflict in favour of the facts. But even in cases where it is a
matter of assertion against assertion we shall often be obliged
to refuse credence to Vassilyev’s statements. For, even though
we do not desire to cast any doubt upon the honesty of this
authority, we hear the evidence adduced on the other side by
men like Alexander Herzen and Prince Krapotkin, who may
lay at least equal claim to our confidence. And to believe these
witnesses does not mean that we are charging Vassilyev with
deliberate untruthfulness; it is enough if we ascribe to Herzen
Page 34
Page 34
28
THE OCHRANA
or Krapotkin a greater gift of observation, keener powers of
discrimination. We read, for instance, in Vassilyev the touch-
ing anecdote of Tsar Nicholas I and Count Benkendorff. The
Tsar, having just created the infamous Special Corps of Gen-
darmerie, hands to Benkendorff, the first Commander of the
Corps, a white handkerchief with which to dry the tears of
the unfortunate! The portrait of that same Count Benkendorft
painted by Alexander Herzen will seem to us to carry much
more conviction:
I am disposed to believe, whenever I remember the insignificant
expression of his face, that Benkendorff did not do as much harm as
he might have done in his all-powerful situation; but neither did he
do much good. He had neither the energy, nor the will, nor the
heart for that. How many innocent victims passed through Benken-
dorff’s hands, how many were ruined by his mere inattention and
forgetfulness! To omit to say a word in defence of the oppressed is
in itself a crime, especially with such a cold and merciless being as
Nicholas I.
And how little do Vassilyev’s statements agree with the
testimony of Prince Krapotkin in his account of the doings of
the Russian Political Police in the days of Tsar Alexander II,
“the Liberator.”
The colonels of Gendarmerie had thousands of homes searched,
without in any way troubling about law or justice. They made arrests
as they chose, kept people as long as it pleased them in prison, and,
by their own arbitrary decision or that of their superiors, exiled them
in hundreds to North-East Russia or to Siberia.
Although, as has thus been shown, we cannot in every point
implicitly trust the memoirs of Vassilyev, the Chief of the
Police, his book provides nevertheless a very important con-
tribution to our knowledge of the Ochrana, that system about
whose working the public has till now heard little more than
vague rumours and biased accusations.
The author’s objective evidence concerning the organization
of the Secret Service, the technique of espionage, the methods
Page 35
Page 35
THE OCHRANA
29
of working adopted by the “External”
and the “Internal
Agency,” the practice of the “Black Cabinets,” the action of
the Police authorities during the World War, and finally the
descriptions of his own experiences after the Revolution are
undoubtedly of high interest and value.
But, quite apart from all that, what makes the publication
of this book particularly important is our conviction that, in
the investigation of the historical truth with regard to the
Ochrana, nothing can be more essential than to be able to
penetrate the spirit that animated its officials. The knowledge
that we acquire in this way of the Ochrana is not merely in-
formation about an institution that belongs to the past. On
the contrary, it puts us in a position to gain for the first time
some proper understanding of Russian polity in general, and
consequently also of Russia as it is to-day. For, even though the
great Revolution may have destroyed all earlier forms in State
and society, it has preserved unchanged the most characteristic
feature in Russian methods of government—cruelty.
In the Museum of the Revolution, in Moscow, the visitor
will find a room draped with black in which the Bolshevik
rulers have collected relics of the Reign of Terror under the
Tsars. There is arranged an exhibition of the most refined
instruments of torture, of the most varied implements used for
flogging, of fetters for hands and feet, of tools employed to
prise open the nostrils of delinquents, of others to tear out
finger- and toe-nails, of leaded clubs, of whips with lashes
studded with screws.
The sight of this chamber of horrors cannot but call forth
indignation and disgust at the methods adopted by Tsarist
jurisprudence, and very few visitors will be able to avoid the
conviction that a system which still made use of such instru-
ments of torture in the twentieth century must be accused of
Page 36
Page 36
30
THE OCHRANA
barbarous medievalism, and that therefore it was high time
that the Tsardom should come to an end.
But if we leave the Museum of the Past to look with open
eyes upon the Russian present, we shall be convinced by all we
see around us that the accursed past is still far from having
come to an end. In place of the old Tsarist fetters arranged
museum-wise, we hear the new fetters of the Bolsheviks clank-
ing, and if some day the rule of the Soviets should be replaced
by another system, the leaders of this new counter-revolution
will have no difficulty on their part in bringing together a
Museum of the Past with another Chamber of Horrors, the
contemplation of which will leave the visitor equally convinced
that the fall of the Communist dictatorship had been a neces-
sity, if civilization were to stand.
The publication of this book should at once help to prepare
the way for recognition of that truth. For not until we have
quite familiarized ourselves with the truly medieval spirit of
the Tsarist Ochrana shall we become fully aware of the genetic
relationship existing between Ochrana and Tsheka or G.P.U.,
between Reactionary and Revolutionary tyranny. That percep-
tion will then keep us from being so misguided as to fall into
the snare of Bolshevik propaganda.
Bolshevism likes to appeal to the French Revolution, claim-
ing to have entered upon its inheritance. In the party debates
in Moscow members of the Government and of the Opposi-
tion are in the way of assigning to each other, as if they were
engaged in amateur theatricals, the réles of Danton, Robes-
pierre, Saint-Just, and Marat. But even if the Moscow Reign
of Terror does in many respects resemble that of Paris, Bol-
shevism has not brought Russia one step nearer the rights of
liberty that France bought by shedding those torrents of blood.
The Soviet system has realized neither the principle of the
separation of the powers of government nor that of public
Page 37
Page 37
THE OCHRANA
31
trial, and consequently cannot claim to be regarded as the
heir of the First Republic. If we are to seek for prototypes of
Russian modes of government, be they Tsarist or Revolution-
ary, we shall not find them in eighteenth-century France, but
in the Spain and Italy of the Middle Ages.
Venice in the fourteenth century was ruled by an institu-
tion, the principles and forms of which recall the Tsheka to
an astonishing degree. Did not the Council of Ten meet every
evening to receive denunciations, to hear the reports of its
spies, and to sit in swift judgment behind closed doors upon
persons it had itself caused to be arrested? And just as the
G.P.U. does, the Council of Ten kept under observation the
whole population and the Government itself. Under its of-
ficial purview came not merely conspiracies aiming at treason
to the State, but criminal affairs, the policing of theatres, the
control of masked balls and of churches. Even with the foreign
policy of the Republic the Council of Ten interfered, by cor-
responding independently with the Venetian Ambassadors and
by continually receiving from its agents confidential reports
upon things done or left undone by Venetians abroad.
In his study of the Tsheka Vassilyev shows quite correctly
that historically it arose immediately from the Ochrana. That
is, the Secret Police of the Soviet régime constitutes in every
respect a continuation of that last relic of medieval despotism;
and this is a fact that, at the present moment if ever, needs to
be recognized, for in Western Europe many a would-be Pro-
gressive, knowing nothing of Russian conditions or of their
history, is ready to hail Bolshevism as a gospel of salvation con-
taining promise of a freer and better future for mankind.
RENE FULOP-MILLER
VIENNA
Page 38
Page 38
Page 39
Page 39
OLICE
N SECRET P
IA
RUSS
pa
Page 40
Page 40
Page 41
Page 41
AUTHOR’S INTRODUCTION
HE 2nd of August, 1914, is a notable date in the history
of Tsarist Russia. On the eve of that fateful day Count
Pourtales, the German Ambassador, himself shaken with the
deepest emotion and with tears in his eyes, had reluctantly
handed to Sazonov, our Foreign Minister, the declaration of
war. Thereupon, at two o'clock, a solemn religious service was
held in the Winter Palace. The public proclamation of the
state of war was made at that service.
A storm of patriotic enthusiasm swept over the whole popu-
lation. All Petersburg was afoot, and from early morning
long processions of men were seen marching through the
streets. It was the various patriotic organizations, carrying pic-
tures of the Emperor and national flags, making their way
in countless ranks to the Kazan Cathedral, to gather on the
vast square that extends in front of that noble pile with its
spacious pillared interior. The Metropolitan delivered a sol-
emn sermon that profoundly stirred his enraptured hearers,
and after the service was over the crowd moved off, as though
by word of command, to the Winter Palace, in order to salute
the Emperor.
I was myself in the midst of the frenzied throng on that
memorable day and allowed myself to be carried along to the
Winter Palace. Wherever I looked I saw nothing but joyous
resolve expressed in the faces around me;
all seemed to share
the feelings that were dominant within myself during those
hours.
The immense host of the assembled people waited patiently
till the service in the palace was over and the Emperor ap-
peared to address them. The doors were flung open, the Tsar
stepped out on to the balcony, and in the same instant the
35
Page 42
Page 42
36
THE OCHRANA
tens of thousands in the open space fell upon their knees.
Along with Nicholas II the Empress also showed herself to
the crowd. She appeared to be deeply affected, for she was
covering her face with her hands and the convulsive move-
ment of her shoulders suggested that she was weeping.
The Sovereigns were hailed with thunderous exultation. The
Emperor bowed low in every direction in acknowledgment
of the ovation thus expressed by the whole population of Peters-
burg.
How far away all that seems from the present, with its sor-
did and humiliating vulgarity! The memory of that day is both
beautiful and painful for us who have been driven from the
homeland we faithfully served and are obliged to live abroad
as refugees, powerless to do more than keep alive our faith and
hope that, to our poor Russia, happier days will return.
Page 43
Page 43
CHAPTER I
Functions of the Ochrana—The External Agency—Qualities required
of Police Spies—Technique of Observation—Myednikov’s School—His
Special Section—Suppression of a Bomb Factory
f
UCH that was mysterious, enigmatical, and dreadful
was associated in the mind of the Russian people with
the term Police Department. For great sections of the popula-
tion this office signified frankly a phantom of terror, of which
the most improbable tales were told. Many people seriously
believed that in the Police Department the unhappy victims
of the Ochrana* were dropped through a hole in the floor into
the cellar, and there tortured.
Of course there was not the slightest foundation for such
legends. The Police Department never perpetrated the bestial
cruelties fantastically ascribed to it. On the contrary, its meas-
ures were always strictly legal. Nevertheless, this authority was
really of terrifying import to certain people; but, of course,
these were not the peaceful population. They were those ad-
versaries of the Empire who, being not yet very numerous,
were only tentatively but surely aiming at the diffusion
in
Russia of the poisonous gospel of Socialism.
It is to be ascribed to the propaganda of these scoundrels
that the Secret Political Police acquired such an evil reputa-
tion, for the revolutionaries naturally did their utmost to bring
discredit upon their bitterest enemy in order to hamper as far
as possible its effective activity. They had once contrived to
smuggle one of their agents, an individual named Voilosh-
nikov, into the Third Section of the Police Department, and
consequently to bring about much confusion. Appropriate
1%n the transliteration of the Russian names ch represents the sound of ch in
loch and tsk the sound of ch in church.—TRansLaTor.
37
Page 44
Page 44
38
THE OCHRANA
measures were taken to prevent such things occurring again;
and the revolutionaries, in their impotent rage, thereafter made
it their business to accuse us persistently and at every oppor-
tunity of cruelty and illegality in our procedure.
However, I personally, and many of my predecessors, can
most emphatically declare that these accusations were abso-
lutely groundless. The correctness with which the Ochrana did
its work is also vouched for by the testimony of that. dis-
tinguished Public Prosecutor and model of uprightness, Murav-
yov, who after the Revolution acted as President of the Special
Commission which investigated closely the conduct of the
Tsarist authorities.
f
It would take too long if I were to set about tracing here
the development of the Ochrana. I therefore confine myself
to the statement that the first beginnings of a Political Police
were made in the reign of Peter the Great. It was at that
time that the Chancellor Biron set up a secret political office,
whose functions in certain respects coincided with those un-
dertaken afterward by the Ochrana. During the nineteenth
century there finally arose the Third Section, since become
so well known, from which the Special Corps of Gendarmerie
and the Ochrana originated.
In the last decades of the nineteenth century the principal
task of the Ochrana was to keep a check upon revolutionaries
among the lower classes, and especially among the students,
who had turned in large numbers to ideals subversive of the
State. Later it was the active propaganda of the Socialists that
assumed prominence, and with them were associated the fol-
lowers of Tolstoi’s Communistic teachings. The growth of
revolutionary tendencies in the Empire obliged the authorities
to increase the efficiency of the Ochrana and, for that purpose,
to strengthen more and more its machinery.
The duties of the Secret Police were very exactly defined.
Page 45
Page 45
CHIEF OFFICIALS OF THE ST. PETERSBURG OCHRANA
Page 46
Page 46
Page 47
Page 47
THE OCHRANA
39
They consisted in the investigation of all movements directed
against the State, and in their destruction. Further, the Ochrana
had also upon occasion to concern itself with various other
crimes, such as murder and robbery, and, in time of war, with
matters of espionage. In all its operations it was a question
of police action pure and simple: the Ochrana’s job was to
discover the evil-doers. Their punishment was not its concern,
but that of the judicial authorities.
Accordingly all investigations had to be handed over sooner
or later to the Public Prosecutor. And the Ochrana had only
the right to keep suspects under arrest for not more than two
consecutive weeks. After the lapse of that period the prisoner
had either to be released or to be transferred to the category
of those undergoing regular imprisonment on remand. At-
tached to each Ochrana section were several public prosecutors,
who followed the course of the inquiries and answered for the
legality of all measures taken.
There was only one form of extra-judicial punishment, and
that was administrative banishment; sentences of up to five
years could be pronounced. This measure was, it must be ad-
mitted, frequently but leniently applied; and latterly exiles
were allowed, if they desired, to go abroad instead of going
to Siberia. If they took advantage of that option they were
never permitted to return.
It is perfectly ridiculous to assert that the Ochrana ever,
of its own authority, had a political prisoner executed. Without
exception it was only the regular tribunals that could pro-
nounce the death sentence, and this was nearly always in con-
nexion with the crime of murder; the Ochrana had nothing at
all to do with such sentences. Only in those districts where
military law had been proclaimed could executions be carried
out—as they are all over the world—without a regular judicial
sentence, and by the order of the military officer commanding.
Page 48
Page 48
40
THE OCHRANA
Thus the Governor-General of Warsaw once condemned a
group of Anarchists to death; they had carried out a series
of sanguinary crimes.
The supreme control of all investigations of a criminal or
political nature was centred in the Police Department of the
Home Office. This was organized in numerous sections, of
which the Records Section was specially important. There were
kept exact data with regard to all persons who had ever come
under the observation of the Criminal or Political Police. Thus
the authorities had at their disposal very carefully compiled
archives containing not merely photographs, records of finger-
prints and anthropometric details, but also the nicknames and
aliases used by the conspirators among themselves.
The Chief of the Police Department occupied an extraordi-
narily responsible post; and, considering the political im-
portance of this office, the appointment of the Chief of Police
for the time being was reserved for the Home Secretary (Min-
ister of the Interior). Whenever this Minister retired, the
Chief of Police relinquished his post at the same time, so that
the new Minister might appoint a man in the enjoyment of
his personal confidence.
The machinery of the Political Police embraced the centres
stationed all over the Empire of the so-called Special Corps of
Gendarmerie and the actual Ochrana, which functioned only
in the larger localities. As a rule, Ochrana sections were brought
into being in those towns in which the revolutionary parties
had set up their committees. The Ochrana offices had at their
disposal their special Records Sections and their own libraries
containing all revolutionary and other prohibited printed
works. For it is to be noted that all the higher officials of the
Ochrana had always to be well acquainted with revolutionary
literature, and to have completely at their command the history
of all subversive movements.
Page 49
Page 49
THE OCHRANA
4I
Moreover, the Ochrana had at its disposal a staff of trained
specialists; it had its photographers, its handwriting experts,
and in many districts even its own Jewish specialists compe-
tent in all matters of Jewish faith, who supplied the Ochrana
with many a valuable hint.
Suspected persons might be kept under observation by two
fundamentally different methods, which were for the most
part applied so as to supplement each other as far as possible.
These were, on the one hand, the so-called system of External
Observation, and, on the other, the Internal or Secret Agency.
The former consisted in the observation of all suspects by
police spies or informers, who were officially designated Agents
of the External Service. These agents formed special detach-
ments under the command of officials trained expressly for this
service. Their duties were to keep an eye upon suspicious char-
acters in the streets, theatres, hotels, railway trains, and similar
places of public resort, and to endeavour to discover all possible
details concerning the mode of life of such persons and the
company frequented by them.
The service of these informers was exceptionally exhausting
and perilous. Only such men were adapted for it as were en-
dowed with a considerable measure of staying power and of
quick perceptive faculties, for the revolutionaries knew, of
course, of the existence of the secret agents, and sought to
baffle and mislead them by every conceivable trick. Frequently
informers, recognized as such by the Terrorists, were murdered
while they were performing their duty.
An official agent in the course of years acquired quite a
peculiar capacity: once he had made a careful study of a photo-
graph the features of the original were so impressed upon his
memory that he never forgot them, and any person whom he
had once seen would be infallibly identified by him among
hundreds of others.
Page 50
Page 50
42
THE OCHRANA
Of course, the secret agents generally assumed some sort
of disguise: they served as porters, door-keepers, caretakers,
newspaper-sellers, soldiers, officers, or railway officials. It was
a special art to wear these disguises so that they might not be
noticed. And the Ochrana kept for such purposes a regular
store of its own, with clothing and uniforms of every kind,
just as it maintained a permanent supply of horses and vehicles.
In the headquarters of the Moscow Ochrana there was a special
court for the numerous agents disguised as cab-drivers, where
they were continually passing in and out.
The public has, generally speaking, entertained exaggerated
ideas of the number of spies in Tsarist Russia. It was widely
assumed that every town of any size was flooded with hun-
dreds of secret agents, and that in St. Petersburg there were
thousands. In reality the whole body of secret agents under the
command of the Ochrana all over Russia did not number
many more than a thousand men, and in St. Petersburg there
were only about a hundred of them altogether. The Foreign
Agency, the efficiency of which was so much talked of in
revolutionary circles, had to carry on its operations with a very
small personnel. Only when it was a question of observing
perhaps a Socialist congress or a conspiracy abroad were a few
agents occasionally sent out from the Ochrana in St. Petersburg
and Moscow to strengthen the service in Western Europe.
The duties of the External Agency and the means to be
employed in all cases by the agents are shown in detail in
the orders of the Police Department. These orders were for a
time kept strictly secret, but in spite of all precautions they
came finally to the knowledge of the revolutionaries. This
circumstance alone makes it permissible for me, in what I
shall have to say in the following pages, to refer to these in-
structions, which provide in any case the most appropriate
Page 51
Page 51
THE OCHRANA
43
means of giving the reader authentic information as to the
operation of the Ochrana.
The Police Department lays it down as a necessary prelimi-
nary to any successful piece of work that the agents should,
above all, be able to impress firmly upon their memory the
features of the individuals to be kept under observation. The
spy is expressly recommended to take advantage of every op-
portunity of practising and developing this important faculty,
and to cultivate the habit of calling back to mind, with his
eyes closed, the characteristic features of any person, after hav-
ing taken one brief glance at him. Along with the face, they
were to observe accurately stature and build, gait, colour of
the hair, and carriage of the shoulders.
All points noted were to be entered in the report book, and
this was to be submitted every week to the head of the section
to which the spy was attached. Special record folios, with red,
green, and white leaves, afforded the chief official of the de-
tective service added facilities in overlooking the materials that
were continually coming in.
Every month the chiefs of the Ochrana sections drew up
the lists of persons who were being watched, all known de-
tails about them being stated, as well as the reasons for keeping
them under observation.
Written and telegraphic communications between spies and
their superiors were never to be conducted in ordinary lan-
guage, but chiefly in the jargon of business correspondence.
If, for example, an agent wanted to report that the man he
was tracking had gone to Tula, the telegram would run:
“Goods required arrived Tula.”
As for the personal qualities to be possessed by the agents,
the instructions to which I have before alluded require all
agents of the detective service to be politically and morally
reliable, honest, sober, bold, adroit, intelligent, patient, prudent,
Page 52
Page 52
44
THE OCHRANA
upright, obedient, and of good health. Individuals of Polish or
Hebrew descent were, on principle, excluded from any kind of
employment in the External Service. All newly appointed
agents were to have it explained to them how very important
their office was for the security of the State, and then to be
sworn in in the presence of a priest.
The first business of the new recruit was to make himself
thoroughly acquainted with the town in which he was to be
stationed, especially with drinking saloons, beer-gardens, tav-
erns, and houses with an access to two or more streets. Then
he must know all about droshkies and motors, their stances
and their fares; the hours of arrival and departure of the
main long-distance trains; times for beginning and stopping
work in the various factories and workshops. He must memo-
rize the uniforms of the various military units, of schoolboys
and students. During his period of training he had, to begin
with at least, to hand in daily a report in writing, showing
his progress in those branches of knowledge. On these reports
depended the decision whether he had, or had not, any apti-
tude for service in the Police.
Not till then was he entrusted with the execution of some
actual observation work, and, to start with, even that only under
the guidance of some older and more experienced official, whose
duty it was to point out his faults. At the same time his politi-
cal reliability was tested by other agents, who engaged him
in conversation and sought to gain his confidence.
Nor was the private life of the secret agent a matter of in-
difference. He might indeed be a married man, but it was
always regarded as rather an unfavourable circumstance if he
showed any excessive devotion to his family. For dangerous
and responsible commissions such men were just as ill-suited
as those fellows who were inclined to form intimate associa-
Page 53
Page 53
THE OCHRANA
45
tions with women of easy manners and with other doubtful
acquaintances.
Of course, it was firmly impressed upon every agent enter-
ing the Service that whatever he got to know during the
course of his duties-was to be regarded as strictly official and
secret, and must never be betrayed to anyone.
For certain reasons it had appeared expedient to indicate
persons under observation not by their real names, but by cer-
tain nicknames. Whenever an agent was brought by his work
into contact with a suspected person he had to give him at
once some such nickname, which thereafter would always
be employed to designate the individual in question. This nick-
-
name was to be short and characteristic, suggested, if possible,
by some striking peculiarity in the exterior of the suspect.
If anyone were to be kept under observation for a fairly
long period, the agents whom this concerned were to be fre-
quently changed, so that the individual being spied upon
might not thus become accustomed to seeing one particular
face. By this means, too, the result was achieved of allowing all
the agents to become acquainted with all persons under ob-
servation, which often proved very useful. Of course, every
agent had to do his utmost not to be seen at all by the person
he was watching, or, at least, to be seen only for a brief moment
and from a distance. That demanded a peculiar technique by
no means easy to acquire.
In pursuing a man in the streets exact knowledge of all
houses with more than one entrance would often enable a
smart agent to elude the notice of the person followed, to hurry
on ahead of him by side-streets, and so to avoid producing
that disquieting effect which often arises when a man feels
that someone is dogging his every step. As far as possible
a direct meeting with the suspect was to be avoided, and if
it was quite unavoidable, the agent must never allow his eyes
Page 54
Page 54
46
THE OCHRANA
to be seen, as it was by them that he would have been most
easily recognized.
If the person being watched showed by frequently turning
round and hurrying his steps that he felt that he was being
—
followed, it would sometimes be discreet to desist altogether
from the pursuit; for it was nearly always of the highest im-
portance that the shadowing should be so carried out that
the object of it would be unaware that he was being shadowed.
It was the agent’s duty to make a very careful mental note of
the route taken by the suspect and to enter the particulars in
his notebook, indicating when he left home, the names of the
streets he passed along, what buildings he entered, and how
long he remained inside.
It demanded very great ingenuity to determine not merely
the block or tenement, but the flat and exact door into which
the quarry had gone. For this purpose it was of great ad-
vantage if the spy could stay up in the top storey and remain
in hiding there, say, in the attic stairs, waiting till the man
should take his departure. From the sound of the footsteps it
would then be possible to judge which door had been used
and so to determine the apartment visited. It was expedient
that inquiries of that kind should be made by the agent in
the uniform of a porter or postman, so that his presence in a
strange building should excite the least possible comment.
Sometimes it would be quite sufficient to lay aside quickly hat
and coat, and to behave on the staircase just as if he were one
of the tenants, who had just come out for a minute into the
passage.
Many a time the uniform of a cab-driver proved of invaluable
service to the spy; but, of course, it was imperative that the
agent putting it on should really be able to handle horses and
to drive properly, with due regard to all police regulations.
He would have to possess a perfect mastery of the droshky-
Page 55
Page 55
GNVINIY
NI
‘VIVMOOY
NI
VNVYHOO
AHL
AT
AAIATAOOSI(,
AYOLOV
aIWog
V
Page 56
Page 56
SITSI], NI UVVZVq NVINAWUY AHL NI aNWog V AO NOISOTdXY AHL WALAY
Page 57
Page 57
THE OCHRANA
47
man’s mode of speech, and to converse with other drivers on
the ranks without giving himself away. In dealing with house-
porters, the agent disguised as a cabman must always be ready
to give some plausible explanation of his stopping at this or
that house; in fact, he required to be an expert in the inven-
tion of such tales. Especially in the service of the Moscow
Ochrana there were men who were simply past-masters in that
line. When one of these assumed the réle of cab-driver he was
absolutely indistinguishable from his professional brethren: he
spoke their jargon fluently, was a first-rate hand with horses,
and was never the least bit embarrassed when he had to treat a
revolutionary as a passenger and spend a few minutes with
him haggling over the fare.
Generally, agents in the disguise of cab-drivers were not em-
ployed alone. More frequently they were in company with
several other spies, who played the part of fares. If the person
under observation was known to be in a certain building, the
cab would usually stop at the door of a neighbouring public-
house. The other agents would go and sit down in the inn,
while the coachman on his box kept watch till the wanted
man appeared again. The least sign of the hand sufficed to
warn the agents seated within, whereupon they quietly and
without making any fuss paid the score, took their places in
the vehicle, and the pursuit was resumed.
A considerable degree of practice was requisite when it was
a matter of hurrying after someone who had just got into a
street car. In such cases it was specially difficult to avoid at-
tracting attention; for, once inside the car, the spy could be
examined at leasure by his victim, and from that moment
there was a great risk of his being always recognized.
In theatres and similar establishments one agent was gen-
erally posted at the door, while another went in. If they dis-
covered that their man had spoken to another person, then the
Page 58
Page 58
48
THE OCHRANA
latter had to be shadowed until they had managed to ferret
out his name and address. The nature and duration of all
such interviews between people already under observation and
others was always to be exactly noted in the report books.
Sometimes it happened that, while watching a given house,
the agents would notice in the course of a short period several
suspicious persons already known to them entering the house
after taking certain precautions. That fact would justify the
assumption that a secret gathering was being held there. In
such cases it was often expedient to send word at once to the
headquarters of the Ochrana, so that the whole group of con-
spirators could be arrested. Such information was generally
sent in the form of a note conveyed by a commissionaire.
The document might contain some such sentence as this: “We
are visiting at a certain house. Will you not join us? We should
be very glad of your company.” But it might also run: “Send
so many men to fetch the goods.”
Occasionally, when a house had to be watched in which the
Ochrana suspected the existence of a secret printing-press, a
bomb factory, or an arsenal, it would become necessary to
find quarters for the agents in the neighbourhood of the sus-
picious building. They would take up their abode there as
ordinary tenants, and would thus have abundant opportunity,
by conversing with the caretakers and other people in the
vicinity, and by means of their own personal observation, of
collecting their evidence.
In all railway stations sums of money were always kept on
deposit for the purpose of allowing agents of the Ochrana to
undertake journeys at short notice, or no notice at all. For it
might happen that a person under observation would quite un-
expectedly drive to the station and board a train. In such cases
the spy entrusted with the affair would draw the money lying
at the superintendent’s office, buy his ticket like any other
Page 59
Page 59
THE OCHRANA
49
passenger, and then endeavour not to lose sight of his man
in the train, while himself remaining incognito. When they
had to undertake any sudden journey of this kind the agents
were to inform their superiors at the first opportunity, by tele-
gram.
Every evening the agents of the Ochrana would meet and
report to each other the new individuals who had come into
the sphere of their observation during the day in question.
In this way it could be determined to what extent the in-
quiries of the various agents completed each other. At these
meetings, too, the spies’ future course of action was decided
upon.
As the detective activities of the Ochrana were, above all, de-
voted to the observation of Terrorists, Revolutionary Socialists,
and other associations dangerous to the well-being of the State,
one of their principal objects was the discovery of preparations
for assassination, of secret printing-presses, and of those labora-
tories in which bombs were manufactured. The period during
which individuals were kept under observation varied enor-
mously; it was often only a few days, it often lasted for years.
Important persons were watched by quite a number of agents,
while only two of these sufficed to keep an eye on humbler
folk.
A consequence of the arduous and dangerous service per-
formed by these agents was that they generally aged quickly
and suffered from nervous troubles. However, it was a com-
paratively rare occurrence for one of them to retire of his own
accord from his profession, for, in spite of all the trials and
perils it involved, these men were fond of the Service, probably
not least of all because there was an element of romance
about it.
One other peculiar feature of the External Agency of the
Ochrana should be noted. Circumstances sometimes arose in
Page 60
Page 60
50
THE OCHRANA
which the desired end was to be attained not, as was usual,
by keeping a person under secret observation, but by allowing
the observation to become patent to all. This plan was adopted
whenever the immediate object was to eliminate certain inter-
mediaries between various revolutionary leaders, thereby oblig-
ing these leaders themselves to come out of hiding. For it
sometimes turned out that a revolutionary organization would
make use of a go-between, who was himself not initiated into
the really important parts of the business and whose sole func-
tion was to maintain communication between the leaders.
Now, if the Ochrana made it quite obvious to that person that
they were shadowing him, the usual result was that the in-
termediary would become frightened and give up the job.
When that happened the only line remaining open to the
leaders was to get into personal touch with each other, and
it was at that juncture that they were most likely to fall into
the hands of the Ochrana.
The thorough organization and training of the Ochrana
agents in all matters pertaining to so-called External Observa-
tion was, to a great extent, the work of the chief of the Moscow
Ochrana, Eustraty Myednikov. He was in no sense a man
of exceptional education, but he possessed a marvellous talent
for the organization of the Secret Service, and was, above all,
distinguished by the skill which he showed in dealing with
subordinate officials. He had instituted a regular school for
secret agents, and the men who served under him in the Mos-
cow Ochrana developed, thanks to his excellent guidance, into
real experts in their departments.
Myednikoy’s method of handling the whole of the Secret
Service was the reverse of bureaucratic: he attached the high-
est importance to making himself personally acquainted with
knowledge of all his good and bad qualities. The people he
Page 61
Page 61
THE OCHRANA
51
preferred as agents were retired N.C.O.s, whose army ex-
perience had given them the necessary sense of discipline.
It was he, too, who introduced the practice of assembling
all the secret agents every night in a special apartment in the
Ochrana buildings. He appeared there regularly himself, talked
with every individual spy, took over the various reports, looked
through them, and then gave appropriate instructions. Of
course, he knew perfectly also all the revolutionary leaders,
and was far better informed as to their conspiracies and policies
than any other official of the Police.
Of those agents of the Moscow Ochrana who showed
the greatest aptitude Myednikov then constituted a Special
Section that was placed at the disposal of the Police Depart-
ment and could be employed, when need arose, on important
special missions. The agents of this Section were famous for
their smartness. They were almost continually travelling, and
were frequently sent abroad in order to strengthen the forces
of the Ochrana stationed there.
Thanks to its excellent organization, the Moscow Ochrana
did, as a matter of fact, score a series of brilliant successes
in the struggle against the various societies aiming at the
overthrow of the State. It prevented several criminal attempts
upon the lives of members of the Imperial family. And it is
chiefly to its efficiency that must be ascribed the destruction
of that revolutionary group that called itself the Will of the
People and for some considerable time displayed very disquiet-
ing activity.
In general, the results produced by the External Agency
provided a valuable basis for the labours of the Political Police.
The assistance of the secret agents many a time made possible
the confiscation of prohibited books and libraries and the
suppression of illegal printing-presses. Successes of this kind
were often due entirely to the presence of mind of some agent
Page 62
Page 62
52
THE OCHRANA
who had sufficient initiative to come to a quick decision in a
critical moment. Thus, too, on one occasion a Terrorist organi-
zation was laid bare by the smart work of an agent, who caught
a person he was observing in the act of throwing away some
fragments of paper. He at once got hold of a street urchin,
gave him a small coin, and told him to pick up carefully all
those bits of paper. Meanwhile the spy himself continued to
follow his man. When, with endless toil and patience, the
scraps of paper had been put together again, a letter was re-
vealed which provided the key that opened up the ramifications
of a dangerous society.
Another time a secret bomb manufactory was discovered
by an agent who had been struck by the frequency with which
a suspected person went walking in public parks and gardens.
A bold association of ideas suggested to the spy that these
continual walks were to be explained by the fact that the
man in question was working most of his time with chemicals
and therefore felt the greater need of fresh air. Acting upon
this suspicion, the Ochrana stepped in, and did actually discover
a regular bomb factory and a great stock of explosives.
Among the most significant and successful achievements
of the External Agents of the Ochrana must be reckoned the
suppression of the secret Seamen’s Union, under Trotsky’s
leadership, which had assumed serious dimensions some years
before the outbreak of the World War. The observations made
by the External Agency led to a complete exposure of this
organization and to the arrest of all the ringleaders, of whom
more than two hundred were afterwards sentenced by the
Courts.
Page 63
Page 63
CHAPTER II
Secret
Collaborators
or Assistants—Traitors
by Conviction—Secret
Rendezvous—Zubatov: his Work and his Death—Revolutionary Coun-
ter-espionage—Police Specialists in all Revolutionary Movements
HE gravest reproach that has been made against the
Ochrana, and made over and over again, is that it em-
ployed the objectionable means of provocation, 2.e., direct in-
citement, first to drive countless numbers into political crime,
and thereafter to send them to Siberia or even to bring them
to the gallows. The irresponsible agitators whose work, after
all, it was to compass the utter collapse of the Russian
Empire have never tired of continually bringing up this
reproach at home and abroad; and one result of their efforts
certainly was that the Ochrana, out of mistaken consideration
for public opinion, many a time showed too little energy and
decision in its procedure.
This question of provocation was bound up in the very clos-
est manner with that of the activity of the Ochrana in general
and of its peculiar duties, which were quite distinct from
those of the ordinary Criminal Police. Without having a clear
comprehension of the position occupied by the Ochrana it is
absolutely impossible to understand, in this much debated af-
fair, what the real question at issue was.
When an ordinary crime, such as, say, murder or theft,
is committed the authorities intervene, as a rule, only after the
accomplished fact. The task of the Police is to follow up what-
ever clues may be found, to question witnesses, to employ all
other resources available to the technique of criminal investi-
gation in order to discover the guilty one, to arrest him, and
to hand him over for judgment to the Courts.
The state of affairs is quite different, however, when we
53
Page 64
Page 64
54
THE OCHRANA
are dealing with political crimes that are being planned and
prepared by a group of conspirators. In this case the power
of the State must not confine itself to bringing the guilty to
punishment after the deed has been accomplished. Rather
must it aim at spoiling the dangerous handiwork of the
rebels betimes, and before they are ever in a position to realize
their nefarious designs.
Every Government in the world, and not the Tsarist Gov-
ernment alone, was and is obliged to defend the maintenance
of the order it stands for by all manner of provisions and
measures. Everywhere, therefore, political authorities are all
the time busily employed collecting information as to the
projects of internal foes, with a view to intervening oppor-
tunely, whenever and wherever any revolutionary movement
is being set on foot. Consequently, in all organized States there
also exist offices having various designations but the same
function, namely, to carry on, with as little noise as possible, an
effective struggle against revolution and anarchy.
There is practically only one efficient means of becoming
informed as to the intentions of the enemy. The Political
Police must secretly get into touch with various individuals in
the camp of the revolutionaries. It follows that the main part
of the activity of the Ochrana was based on that fact. When
this Secret, or Internal, Agency first came into being I cannot
say, but I know that it must have happened a long time ago.
The Internal Agency was much more dangerous for the
enemies of the State than the open spy service of the Ochrana,
for by means of it the authorities got to know.
of the most
confidential happenings within the various revolutionary or-
ganizations. Accordingly such secret co-operators, or assistants,
drawn from the ranks of the enemy, were employed by the
Police Department, as well as by the local sections of the
Ochrana and by the Foreign Agency. The secret assistants in
Page 65
Page 65
ARREST Porice
a
REVOLUTIONARY
Painted
by
Ilja
Repin
Page 66
Page 66
GAAINAY AOLIOY IHL AWOAAG
Page 67
Page 67
THE OCHRANA
55
the service of the Foreign Agency were entrusted with the task
of watching the activities of the refugees and of supplying regu-
lar reports on all that happened in the inner councils of the
insurgent groups settled abroad, and especially of the dif-
ferent Socialist sects. Sometimes the secret assistants would
return to Russia, and would arrange there regular tours of
inspection round the important centres of Russian conspiracy,
giving themselves out as plenipotentiaries sent by the revolu-
tionary headquarters staff stationed abroad.
The Ochrana included among its secret assistants members
of all classes: people of the working class, prostitutes, students,
as well as respected party leaders, and even members of the
Duma. The motives that might induce a revolutionary to enter
into secret co-operation with the Police and thus to become a
traitor to the comrades of his own party were very varied.
During the time I held office myself I came across men utterly
devoid of character, who collapsed as soon as they were ar-
rested and professed their readiness to supply the authorities
with valuable particulars as to the doings of their group.
With others again the officials of the Police were obliged to
use their most skilful persuasive powers for quite a time be-
fore they induced them to co-operate. In such negotiations,
of course, the most potent inducement was the prospect of
having the punishment that otherwise awaited them remitted.
It sometimes happened, too, that individuals would present
themselves to the Ochrana and quite spontaneously announce
that they had become convinced that the organized rebellious
activities of the group to which they belonged were highly
reprehensible, and that consequently they were ready from
that moment to assist the authorities in their struggle against
the subversive elements. But often enough I have met people
who, when I inquired why they were thinking of offering us
Page 68
Page 68
56
THE OCHRANA
their services, answered bluntly that they were doing it for
the money’s sake.
In general, however, material considerations did not play
so large a part as might be supposed, for the remuneration
which the Ochrana was in a position to pay must be described
as very poor. If the Police Department were up against specially
important personalities occupying a leading position in the
revolutionary camp, it had no doubt to dip deep into its
pocket in order to offer these people a reward commensurate
with the magnitude of their treachery. Ordinary assistants in
the Secret Agency, however, rarely received more than from
twenty to fifty roubles per month.
I know many secret agents who for such meagre pay sup-
plied us with a number of very valuable reports. The Jews
especially—it is notorious that in every revolutionary move-
ment in Russia the Jews have been well represented—were
satisfied with perfectly trifling rewards for their traitorous
services. After the Revolution of 1905 the sums placed at the
disposal of the Police Department for such purposes were con-
siderably augmented, but as the number of secret assistants
increased simultaneously, the takings of these people remained
approximately no higher than before.
Apart from the permanent secret assistants, there were also
people who appeared upon occasion in the Ochrana and fur-
nished information about this or the other society to which
they or their friends belonged. Such occasional co-operators
were paid a few roubles.
In their case it was often a matter of revenge of a personal
character. It would occur that a revolutionary thought he had
been insulted, slighted, or betrayed by members of his faction.
In a fit of rage and spite he would then hurry off to the
Ochrana and denounce his fellow-conspirators. Agitators, too,
who had been promised a certain reward for their activity,
Page 69
Page 69
THE OCHRANA
57
and from whom their employers were withholding the money,
would appear in our office, quivering with anger. They wanted
to give vent to their feelings, and at the same time, by accept-
ing the Police reward, to make up for the one out of which
they had been cheated by the revolutionaries.
But there were also persons who co-operated with us out
of pure interest in the work, and these were often the most
efficient and capable auxiliaries the Police had. One of the
most interesting figures of this class was a woman student
named Zhutshenko, who for many years actively assisted the
Moscow Ochrana, and in particular rendered extraordinarily
valuable services in connexion with the unmasking of the
fighting section of the Revolutionary Socialists. As a result of
action taken in consequence of her communications, several
assassinations planned by the Terrorists were prevented, and
the prime movers placed under lock and key. For a long time
the Revolutionary Socialists reposed great confidence in her,
and once entrusted her with the execution of a plot against
the life of General Kurlov, at that time Governor of Minsk.
In agreement with the Ochrana, Zhutshenko undertook this
commission and did actually throw a bomb at General Kurlov,
exactly according to the scheme of the revolutionaries. Of
course, experts in the service of the Ochrana had seen to it
that the bomb was rendered harmless, so that it did not ex-
plode. It was not till some years after that that the revolu-
tionaries discovered that Zhutschenko had been playing a dou-
ble game, and from that time onward the bold girl was in
perpetual danger of falling a victim to their vengeance. But
she managed to escape all their snares, and actually still suc-
ceeded in sending in to the Ochrana valuable particulars con-
cerning the Revolutionary Socialists.
Almost always extreme caution was observed by the Ochrana
in carrying out any work along with these secret agents; and
Page 70
Page 70
58
THE OCHRANA
if at times rules laid down in this connexion were ignored,
the consequences were nearly always disastrous.
It was a basic principle that, in all documents and reports
and in oral communications, secret assistants must never be
designated by their real names, but always by some pseudonym.
In contrast to the procedure adopted in the External Agency,
this pseudonym must not be derived from the family name,
nor from the profession, nor from the place of residence, nor
from the outward appearance of the individual in question;
it was rather to be chosen quite arbitrarily.
Within the Ochrana itself only the chiefs knew the real
names of the agents, so that even the officials who were in
continual contact with the secret assistants did not, as a rule,
know with whom they were actually dealing. Only in the
Police Department were lists kept with the real names, and
there, if need should arise, it was possible to discover the
identity of the agents in question.
Whenever a nickname had become rather too well known
in Ochrana circles it was at once changed, so that the same
agent thenceforth went by another name, and no one except
the chiefs of the Service was aware that the new assistant was
identical with the old. At other times, too, all the assumed
names in use were changed. This happened certainly when
a new appointment had been made to the office of Chief of
the Ochrana. The purpose of all these complicated measures
was to make it as difficult as possible for the revolutionaries
to unmask the secret assistants.
Interviews between the leaders of the Ochrana and the more
important agents drawn from the hostile camp took place for
the most part at so-called secret rendezvous, a large number
of which were maintained by the Ochrana, and which played
a very important part in this branch of the detective service.
These houses were situated in all parts of the town and were
Page 71
Page 71
THE OCHRANA
59
frequently changed, the aim being to fix appointments with
the various agents, not in the same house, but always in dif-
ferent houses. The addresses of these quarters were, of course,
kept strictly secret, and every building in which one of these
mecting-places was situated was permanently watched by
agents of the External Service. One particular official was en-
trusted with the supervision of these houses and carried the
keys. Whenever an interview between a secret agent and a
Police officer- was to take place it was his duty to introduce
each man separately into the flat, and, in the same way, to see
him off the premises.
In spite of all precautions it did happen sometimes that the
revolutionaries found out one of these addresses. Then they
tried, on their part, to spy upon it, and so to learn who were
the people that frequented it. By this means they occasionally
managed to identify secret agents of the Ochrana. It was in
order to avoid that that such addresses were changed as fre-
quently as means allowed.
In carrying on the work of the Service it was also an im-
portant rule that the names of secret agents were, on princi-
ple, never made known to agents of the External System, and
vice versa. The object of this measure was to guarantee that
reports sent in by the External and the Internal Agencies
should be quite independent of each other, and should, to the
greatest extent possible, serve to supplement each other.
Reports from the Internal Agency were sent in to a special
section of the Police Department and were treated as strictly
private. Only the officials who worked in that section were
allowed access to these confidential documents.
The real foundation of the Internal Agency, in the form
which it assumed in the last decades of the Tsarist Govern-
ment, is to be attributed to Zubatoy, the last Chief of the
Moscow Ochrana. He was one of the first to recognize clearly
Page 72
Page 72
60
THE OCHRANA
the serious dangers threatening the State through the growth of
revolutionary movements from the later years of the nine-
teenth century onward. He also realized that the employ-
ment of secret
assistants formed the only means
at the
command of the authorities that afforded them effective pro-
tection. By his personal influence he procured a number
of
valuable collaborators for the Ochrana, and always did his ut-
most to make his men into really convinced Monarchists and
defenders of the existing order. Whenever the Ochrana had
arrested a group of revolutionaries, Zubatov would seek out
among their number those persons who appeared to him to
be most amenable to influence. He would invite them into
his private room and would begin to converse with them in
a friendly way, explaining to them how detestable all revolu-
tionary ambitions were, and how just was the defensive cam-
paign waged by the Government.
In that way he often succeeded in winning for the Ochrana
men who had merely been led astray by revolutionaries and
now recognized their error. For these people Zubatov felt a
sort of personal attraction and treated them, in a sense, as his
special protégés. When their service with him was over, he
took steps to see that his agents were settled in some respecta-
ble situation in civil life; and often used to say that it was
the duty of the Police to turn revolutionaries into useful mem-
bers of the State.
It was also Zubatov who introduced, in the Ochrana, the
most modern methods of criminal investigation based on the
Western European models. He instituted the up-to-date system
of keeping records, and brought into being the anthropometric
archives that afterward rendered the most precious services
to the Ochrana. His work it was, too, that led to the establish-
ment of branches of the Ochrana in numerous provincial
towns.
Page 73
Page 73
THE OCHRANA
6:
The great successes his methods enabled him to achieve
earned for him the intense hatred of all insurgent organiza-
tions. When, therefore, in the year 1917 the Revolution broke
out, Zubatovy knew what this meant for him, and shot himself
as soon as the victory of the rebels was assured beyond any
doubt.
Naturally we had to protect ourselves against the possibility
that our agents might, deliberately or otherwise, supply us
with wrong information. It occurred often enough that revo-
lutionary bodies made attempts to smuggle their own responsi-
ble people into the Ochrana in order to mislead it, and
especially in order to find out the names of the secret agents
and then to wreak their vengeance upon these. It was, accord-
ingly, absolutely essential that the reliability of all reports
sent in by secret agents should be severely tested, which often
demanded on the part of the officers of the Ochrana a very
high degree of expert knowledge and of insight into human
character. As a rule, an effort was made to have every revolu-
tionary society watched, not by one agent, but by two or more
men who were unacquainted with each other. Thus the officials
would be in regular receipt of several reports on the same
group, so that they could be collated, completed, and cor-
rected.
A further check was provided by the fact already mentioned
that the External and Internal Agencies acted separately and
independently. As the regular informers and the secret agents
did not know each other, the employees of the External Ser-
vice reported, frankly and without bias, whatever they ob-
served of the conduct of the secret agents; and those in charge
of the Ochrana were enabled to satisfy themselves as to the
trustworthiness of reports sent in by the secret agents, and,
generally speaking, to form a fairly clear picture of the mode
of life and real political attitude of these people. Then it must
Page 74
Page 74
62
THE OCHRANA
also be borne in mind that the higher Police officials had for
long been specializing in the study of the various revolutionary
tendencies. One official would busy himself with the doings
of the Revolutionary Socialists, another with those of the
Anarchists, others again with the disciples of Tolstoi, with the
Democratic Socialists, and with other subversive associations.
The officials concerned, therefore, had at their command ex-
ceptional knowledge of the facts, and were not easily taken in.
Simple-minded people, never having been initiated into the
true state of matters and the technicalities of Police work,
have often been offended by our entire procedure in the In-
ternal Agency, and have made more or less well-intended pro-
posals for improving it. For example, Count V. P. Meshtsher-
sky, in his journal Citizen, once published an article calling for
the suppression of the Internal Agency—that is, the abolition
of the whole system of employing secret collaborators. He
suggested that the Police should disguise their own officials
and send them to the revolutionary meetings. It need hardly
be said that such amateurish advice was undeserving of any
serious consideration.
Page 75
Page 75
CHAPTER III
Agents Provocateurs and Provocation (Direct Incitement)—The Tell-
tale Misprint—Police Agents as Conspirators—Organization and Pro-
cedure of the Revolutionaries—Secret Printing-Presses—Anarchists and
Terrorists—A Frustrated Plot against the Life of the Tsar
OW little could really be accomplished without the tech-
nique elaborated by the Ochrana is perhaps most clearly
revealed by incidents that befell after the Revolution of 1917.
The Minister of Justice, Kerensky, applied to the former of-
ficials of the Ochrana, by that time in prison, for advice as
to the best way of countering the intrigues of the Bolsheviks.
General Globatshov, who had been Chief of the Ochrana in
Petersburg, was one of those appealed to in this way. He had
been arrested immediately after the Revolution, and it was at
once suggested to him that he should place his experience at
the disposal of the new Government in its fight with the ex-
tremists. I shall have to speak of a similar personal experience
of my own.
But if co-operation with secret agents drawn from the ranks
of the rebels certainly proved to be an imperative necessity for
the Political Police, it is a long step from that to the provoca-
tion, or direct incitement, of which the Ochrana has always
been accused. There was, as a matter of fact, only one mode
of justifying that accusation; the enemies of the old régime
simply and arbitrarily changed the meaning of the word pro-
vocation, and called every one an agent provocateur who
secretly supplied us with information.
The true meaning of this much-abused term is, however,
quite different. The agent provocateur is one who himself sets
on foot some revolutionary movement and then betrays to the
authorities the people he has befooled. If the term is taken
63
Page 76
Page 76
64
THE OCHRANA
in this sense, I can affirm that such real provocation was not
merely never at any time encouraged by the Tsarist authorities,
but was severely punished by them.
Moreover, the Ochrana unfortunately was never obliged
to stage conspiracies of its own. The intellectual gentry of
Russia considered it the smart thing to abandon themselves,
with an utter lack of reason or restraint, to what they deemed
Liberal ideas; and consequently the movements opposed. to
the Government were of themselves far too strong for them
to require any artificial fostering, or to call for the organization
of conspiracies and plots on the part of the Ochrana in the
manner attributed to it. Those accursed mischief-makers and
agitators, Burtsev, Gershuny, Balmashov, Kalyaev, Savinkov,
and others, who worked together for decades to bring about
the ruin of our country, have never to this day been able to
produce any evidence to show that they had been provoked
to their revolutionary activity.
It must not be concealed that here and there, owing to lack
of experience on the part of local authorities, cases of provoca-
tion certainly did occur; but whenever the Police Department
heard of such a case it always proceeded to punish severely
the guilty parties. The men who were at the head of the De-
partment, such as Kovalyensky, E. I. Vuitsh, M. I. Trusyevitsh,
and myself, always took the greatest care to ensure that such
inadmissible action was never tolerated, much less approved of.
That cases of provocation should have occurred at all was
largely to be ascribed to the after-effects of the Revolution of
1905. The disturbances had proved that the Political Police
was not numerically strong enough to tackle, with complete
success, the seething turbulence of the rebels. To mitigate this
evil, the Chief of Police, M. I. Trusyevitsh, had organized
special Area-covering Sections, intended to strengthen the
hands of those entrusted with political investigation. As, how-
Page 77
Page 77
THE OCHRANA
65
ever, there was a lack of men suited for the leadership of these
sections, Trusyevitsh had been obliged to appoint young army
officers to positions of command. These officials were naturally
very often lacking in the requisite knowledge and experience,
and, to add to the difficulties, friction often arose between
them and the Government authorities on the spot.
Further, the mistaken practice was for some time adopted
in the Police Department of estimating the performance of the
various Covering Sections rather mechanically, according to
the number of reports of revolutionary intrigues submitted.
Now, it might quite easily happen that, in a given area, the
conspirators were not very active, and that the officer in charge
feared, with more or less reason, that he would produce a
bad impression in St Petersburg if he could not supply reports
of some kind. This situation naturally suggested the tempting
idea of manufacturing troubles by provoking them;
then, by
discovering them, the officer in question might acquire a repu-
tation for special efficiency with the chiefs of the Police De-
partment.
I have myself at various times had to inquire into such
occurrences. Among them I remember particularly one case
which happened in the year 1906, in Yekaterinoslav. I had
been instructed by the Minister for Home Affairs, P. N.
Durnovo, to go to that town, where I learned from the Public
Prosecutor attached to the local courts that, shortly before my
arrival, the Chief of the Ochrana had unearthed a secret revo-
lutionary printing-press. The examining magistrate, however,
who conducted a thorough search of the premises involved,
soon discovered unmistakable proof that he was up against a
job arranged by the Ochrana itself. This is how it was. In the
printing-office several hundred complete copies of a highly
treasonable pamphlet had been discovered, while the type cor-
responding had been found set up and in the press. The ex-
Page 78
Page 78
66
THE OCHRANA
amining magistrate himself pulled a proof from this type, and
it turned out that, in a certain passage in this proof, the little
word ‘that’ was missing. But in the printed copies already com-
pleted that word was present. We all saw at once what this
meant. The Ochrana had had the proclamations printed else-
where, and had had them introduced into the printing-office
by one of their agents, who had thereupon quickly set up the
type corresponding. But for this man’s little bit of carelessness
in doing his part of the work the scheme would probably have
succeeded, and the absolutely innocent printer would have been
sent to Siberia. As it was, however, the Chief of the Ochrana
section received a severe reprimand, the inquiry was stopped
at once, and not a hair of the printer’s head was touched. I
reported the whole affair to the Minister, who, in his own
hand, wrote in the margin of the document, “The officer in
charge of the section must quit his office at once; the Com-
mander of the Gendarmerie is to be informed without delay
of his dismissal.”
Another case of provocation occurred during the time that
I was at the head of the Special Section of the Police Depart-
ment. A commander of Gendarmerie attached to the railway
service on the Far Eastern frontier,
a man who probably had
never before been engaged in a political investigation, sent
word that some Russian revolutionaries were regularly meet-
ing in a certain club in Tokio. To render these people harm-
less, he said, he had commissioned his agent there to blow
up the whole club with a bomb. No sooner had I read this
communication than I hurried to the Chief of Police and told
him all about it. At once a telegram was dispatched to that
officer of gendarmes, forbidding most strictly the execution of
his mad enterprise. Fortunately the wire arrived in time,
thereby preventing this bomb outrage that had been planned
by one of our own people.
Page 79
Page 79
THE OCHRANA
67
But with these I have exhausted the list of all the real cases
of provocation that ever came to my knowledge. Indeed, to be
quite plain, the Police Department was at all times almost too
suspicious in looking into every case, in order to see that sub-
ordinate officials were not overstepping the bounds of their
legal rights.
The work of the secret agents consisted solely in sending in
to the Ochrana reports of the doings of the revolutionary
groups; they were strictly forbidden to take any active part
in deeds that were inimical to the interests of the State. Of
course, the other members of the revolutionary group to which
the agent ostensibly belonged would demand from him the
performance of certain pieces of work, and he would not al-
ways be able to get out of that without exciting suspicion.
Accordingly we granted to our assistants permission to take
part in secret meetings and in the execution of minor acts
which they might be ordered to commit. But whenever it came
to serious and dangerous enterprises, the collaborator with the
police was not allowed to obey the rebel leaders, and then the
question was to find a credible pretext for the refusal to carry
out instructions. The difficulty, therefore, for the agent was,
on the one hand, to create the impression that he was zealously
active in the party interest, and, on the other hand, to refuse
any action that was really punishable as a grave offence. If
in one respect the secret agent showed too little zeal, he in-
curred the risk of rousing the suspicion of his companions
and of being murdered by them. If, however, his participation
in the violence of the revolutionaries went too far, he might
easily find himself in a situation which excluded any possibility
of his ever getting back within the limits of the law.
It happened at times that our agents found themselves under
the necessity of taking over from the revolutionaries, for safe-
keeping, propaganda literature of a compromising character
Page 80
Page 80
68
THE OCHRANA
and even explosives, especially when there was any danger
of a domiciliary search being made. In such cases our assistants,
according to their instructions, would bring such writings or
explosives to their superiors in the Police Office, and would
then declare to their party that they had been obliged to de-
stroy the material in question because the landlady had be-
come suspicious, or for some other plausible reason. It was
part of the duty of the head of the Ochrana section to supply
agents with such excuses for the consumption of the revolu-
tionaries, and sometimes, with this end in view, even to ar-
range little comedies. By this means the authorities gained
possession of valuable documents, while the secret agent man-
aged not to compromise himself in the eyes of the conspirators.
The reader may perhaps ask why the Police did not always
arrest at once the persons denounced to them by the agent;
why, on the other hand, they seemed to behave for quite a
long time as passive spectators of the machinations of danger-
ous conspirators. The explanation lay in the complicated struc-
ture of the revolutionary societies. To begin with, the Secret
Police agent would usually know only a few unimportant
members of those groups of plotters, while the real leaders re-
mained entirely in the background. The truth is that the ac-
tivities of the associations aiming at the overthrow of the State
in Russia were already so elaborate that they were not to be
countered by ill-considered measures of violence. If the Police
had always proceeded to make arrests immediately on the
receipt of the first reports furnished by their confidants, they
would have laid their hands upon merely insignificant tools,
who were not even well informed as to the details of con-
spiracies, and we should never have been able to discover the
whole extent of the organization in question. Our enemies
would have laughed in their sleeves if we had precipitately
arrested persons of little importance who had been thrust
Page 81
Page 81
THE OCHRANA
69
into conspicuous positions, for it would simply have meant
that we had, by our action, warned the real leaders.
For all the revolutionary societies were organized on a sys-
tem as complicated as that of the Ochrana itself. The leaders
occupying the more responsible posts showed themselves only
very rarely to their comrades who were not of the initiated
inner circle, and concealed their identity behind assumed
names. And so it came about that the revolutionary usually did
not himself know who his superior really was. All corre-
spondence was carried on by the use of harmless-looking
false addresses, which, in the jargon of those people, were called
“blank addresses.” Nearly all the leading personalities in the
revolutionary camp possessed false passports, and they were so
clever in preserving the secret of their identity that the authori-
ties often had the greatest difficulty in determining whom
they really had before them.
All written matter that might prove to be incriminating was
either composed in complicated ciphers and in invisible ink,
or preserved in very skilfully chosen hiding-places. Experienced
revolutionaries always tried to make quite sure that they were
not being followed in the streets, and special precautionary
measures were arranged, to be taken in case of their being sur-
prised by Police raids. If the Ochrana suddenly appeared in
a suspected dwelling, the revolutionaries who happened to
be present always managed, by drawing the window-curtains
or by some such sign, to inform someone in their confidence
who would be waiting in the street outside, and we could be
quite certain that none of the conspirators would ever set
foot again in the quarters we had unearthed.
The controlling powers in the rebel parties were, as a rule,
abroad, and were by that very fact beyond the reach of the
authorities. Switzerland, especially, was for long the centre of
Page 82
Page 82
70
THE OCHRANA
various Socialist and revolutionary organizations that used that
country as a refuge from which to direct their systematic efforts
to undermine the rule of the Tsar.
If a revolutionary were arrested, he, as a rule, refused to
make any declaration. This was, it might be said, a principle
acted upon so as to make the task of the authorities, right
down to the last moment, as difficult as possible.
One of the most important means used by all these groups
was the secret printing-press. These presses were most fre-
quently installed in the cellars of old houses, or in out-of-the-
way districts and side-streets. In them were printed appeals
and proclamations intended to stir up the population against
the lawful Government. To discover and render innocuous
such hotbeds of revolution was one of the main problems of
the Ochrana, and it could be solved, in the main, only by the
assistance of secret collaborators. Whenever we succeeded in
discovering one of these presses all the matter found on the
premises was confiscated and destroyed;
all persons who had
had any share in the production of seditious pamphlets were
transported for shorter or longer periods to Siberia.
The most dangerous enemies that the Ochrana had to con-
tend with were the Anarchists, who were possessed by the
blind lust of destruction, and sought to overthrow whatever
in any way stood for the authority and order of the State.
Among them there were many men who were betrayed by
their fanatical faith in the rightness of their ideas into adopt-
ing such a pernicious line of conduct. But in the ranks of the
Anarchists there were also members who sought simply an
opportunity of indulging their diseased and criminal instincts.
The so-called “fighting group” of the Revolutionary Socialists
also made a good deal of trouble for the Ochrana, for it was
with them that many attempts upon the lives of members of
Page 83
Page 83
LOIANOD)
V
SV
“AAHATG
JO
UAAAGUAYWY
‘AONOZVS
HS.LIAOWINVXATY
IdAOWAS
AMAG
GNVuL)
AHL
do
WaAUAC
Any
‘AAVAIVY]
Page 84
Page 84
aWog V Ad GAYALLVHS “UONIALN AHL JO AALSINIP, “AAHATY JO AGOG
Page 85
Page 85
THE OCHRANA
71
the Imperial family, of the Government, and of the Police
originated. The number of victims who fell to the bombs or
revolvers of this Terrorist association is very large. Even the
life of the Tsar was often seriously threatened. We were con-
tinually hearing of plots to assassinate the monarch, and more
than once a high degree of prudence and ingenuity was re-
quired to prevent the actual perpetration of these crimes.
How much depended in such cases upon the correct conduct
of the Ochrana will perhaps best be shown by the story of the
criminal attempt made by the Revolutionary Socialist Sletov.
This Sletov had come to Petersburg along with some of his
fellow-conspirators in order to murder the Tsar. He and his
accomplices had disguised themselves as droshky-drivers, and
first spent some time and much trouble in finding out exactly
when the Emperor usually left the palace. By a lucky chance
there was among Sletov’s friends a secret agent of the Ochrana,
who lost no time in warning the authorities of the designs of
this dangerous company. The matter was brought to the no-
tice of General Kurlov, then Under-Secretary for the Interior.
For some time he was very uncertain as to what he should do.
It would have been a simple affair to arrest there and then
Sletov and his fellows; but we did not know exactly what
ramifications of the society might still exist. If there were such,
then we had to consider the risk that some other member of
the group, unknown to the Ochrana, might after all carry
out the projected outrage. After mature consideration Kurlov
decided, for that time, to have Sletov quietly warned by the
secret agent, and so to facilitate the flight of the whole band.
However surprising this step may seem, it was nevertheless,
in the given situation, the best thing to do. The danger to
the Emperor was averted. There was certainly the prospect
that one of those conspirators might be engaged in some sub-
Page 86
Page 86
72
THE OCHRANA
sequent outrage, but now the Ochrana knew the identity of
all of them. That materially increased the possibility of suc-
cessful counter-action, while, if all the members of that band
had been arrested, the Police would have been helpless in face
of further conspiracies.
Page 87
Page 87
CHAPTER IV
The Central Agency—The Azef Affair—The Chief of Police on Trial
—Psychology of the Traitor—Murder of Colonel Karpov—Explosives
in the Table-leg—Assassination of the Prison Governor—A Murderess
with Dynamite in her Corsage—Dreadful End of Stolypin, President of
the Council
URING the whole period of my service in the Police
Department I strenuously opposed the so-called Central
Agency—that is, the practice followed by the Ochrana of as-
sociating with itself, as co-workers, people who were them-
selves at the head of revolutionary societies. It may have seemed
to the Police rather attractive to win over the leader in a
dangerous conspiracy, and thereby to be able, at one blow, to
gain complete insight into the doings of the group in question.
Experience, however, has shown that, in that way, useful re-
sults could hardly ever be attained.
The man who is directing a treasonable organization can
never unreservedly pass on to the Police all he himself knows.
As he is the chief in his group, he alone will know their ulti-
mate intentions and projects. If he betrays these secrets to
the authorities, the inevitable consequence will be that he will
run the risk of being found out by his comrades and accom-
plices; he will certainly be compromised in their eyes. If,
therefore, such a man appears to have been won over by the
authorities, it is certain that he will put them in possession of
information that is far more likely to prove insignificant and
misleading than important and reliable.
Perhaps nothing so clearly justifies this view of mine as the
notorious Azef Affair. It was cited over and over again by the
Liberal Press in its irresponsible campaign of agitation against
the Government and its servants. It can certainly not be de-
73
Page 88
Page 88
74
THE OCHRANA
nied that in this affair grave—nay, disastrous—faults were com-
mitted; but there was no ground whatever for the view of
those people who would have deduced from such mistakes
the conclusion that the whole Tsarist state system was based
upon Azef methods.
It was about the year 1900 that Azef appeared for the first
time in Russia, after living abroad, where he had been in
touch with Ratshkoysky, the Chief of the Foreign Section of
the Ochrana. The latter, however, soon began to distrust him
and broke off all relations with him. In Russia Azef quickly
got into contact with Zubatov, the Head of the Moscow
Ochrana, while at the same time he occupied a position of
increasing importance in the party of the Revolutionary So-
cialists, to which he had for years belonged. He was elected
a member of the Central Committee of this party, and made
use of his position to convey to the authorities information
about Terrorist acts that were being projected by his com-
rades. But all the time he was playing a double game, and
while he was in regular receipt of money from the Ochrana, he
was, on the other hand, taking part in the preparation of
crimes of violence, without giving any intimation of the fact
to the Police. And so the authorities were lulled into a false
sense of security, believing that they were really being kept
fully informed by Azef as to the plans of the fighting group,
which was then displaying such incessant and menacing
activity.
Unfortunately, no precautions were taken to obtain reliable
evidence to show whether the man who was being paid com-
mission out of State funds was not himself helping to arrange
attacks upon Ministers and Grand Dukes. The hope of at last
being able to come upon the tracks of the widely ramified Ter-
rorist conspiracies made the officials of the detective service
who had to deal with Azef altogether too imprudent. For the
Page 89
Page 89
AASLUNG
WINIGVTA
dAZY
ONAY
Page 90
Page 90
A. A. Lopucuin, HEAD oF THE PoLIcE DEPARTMENT
His imprudence led to the revelation that Azef was a secret agent
Page 91
Page 91
THE OCHRANA
7
latter took good care not to be found out by his comrades,
and made sure that the Government was far from knowing all
that was known to him. The authorities felt safe in the con-
sciousness that the leader of their enemies was really co-operat-
ing with them;
and their consternation was all the greater
when political crime not merely did not cease, but actually
began to assume ever more terrifying dimensions.
Within a short period W. K. Plehve, the Minister for Home
Affairs, and the Grand Duke Sergyei Alexandrovitsh were
murdered. In both cases the outrages had been conceived and
planned by Azef’s group, without Azef having warned the
police betimes. The Liberal Press actually made the assertion
that Azef had acted as an agent provocateur and had him-
self arranged these crimes. Even the former President of the
Council of Ministers, Count Witte, apparently identified him-
self with this view, for in his memoirs he notes the rumour
that the murderer of Grand Duke Sergyei Alexandrovitsh had
been incited to commit the deed by “Azef, the police agent.”
But it must be pointed out that Count Witte, who, after all,
was at that time Prime Minister and, as he expresses himself,
“ruled the country,” did not put an end to the political in-
telligence service, which had thus brought about the murder
of members of the Imperial Family by its own agents. On
the contrary, it was then that the Count appointed as Minister
of the Interior P. N. Durnovo, who clung most emphatically
to that very system of political investigation. That fact alone
suffices to characterize as devoid of seriousness Witte’s con-
demnation of Police action.
In spite of all inquiries, newspaper articles, and speeches de-
livered in the Duma, no clear light has ever been shed upon
the Azef Affair. Nor did I, during my whole period of ser-
vice, ever set eyes upon any documents that might have been
likely to clear up that mysterious business.
Page 92
Page 92
76
THE OCHRANA
Unfortunately, when P. A. Stolypin, as Prime Minister,
made his great speech in the Duma on the Azef Affair, he did
not explicitly declare that it was a matter of an isolated blunder
on the part of the Ochrana, for which those responsible were
going to be called to account. Carried away by his oratorical
enthusiasm, the Prime Minister spoke in far too general terms,
and thereby made it possible for the opposition to continue its
twaddle about the Azef System.
With this melancholy affair a certain trial was associated
which made much stir in its time. It concerned my predeces-
sor in office, A. A. Lopuchin, Chief of Police. Some time after
his retirement from the headship of the Police Department he
committed the grave indiscretion of communicating to Burt-
sev, in the course of conversation with this revolutionary, that
Azef had been a secret agent of the Ochrana. It is altogether
beyond comprehension how an experienced Chief of Police
like Lopuchin could have been guilty of such a piece of im-
prudence. During the course of a railway journey abroad
Lopuchin had by accident come across Burtsev, had become
involved in an animated discussion, and in the heat of the argu-
ment he may have let fall the admission that Azef was in the
service of the Police. Burtsev lost no time in publishing his
conversation with Lopuchin in the Opposition Press. The result
was not merely that Azef was branded in the eyes of the
revolutionaries as a traitor, but that several other secret as-
sistants of the Police began to excite the suspicion of the
parties to which they belonged.
In the Government the episode caused the greatest dismay,
especially as Lopuchin had been a friend of Stolypin in
his youth and was on the most intimate terms with him.
The Minister of the Interior, Makarov, summoned a special
meeting at which Shtsheglovitov, the Minister of Justice,
Kaminshansky, the Public Prosecutor at the Supreme Court of
Page 93
Page 93
THE OCHRANA
7
Petersburg, and Kurlov, Under-Secretary, were present. Opin-
ion as to whether Lopuchin should be put on trial was divided,
but at last, in spite of weighty objections, the majority voted
in favour of handing the matter over to the public Courts.
To my mind, that was a grave blunder: there was no serious
basis whatever for the charge, which was founded on para-
graph 102 of the Code, the paragraph that refers to participa-
tion in secret and prohibited associations. No doubt Lopuchin
might have been punished by administrative process and even
sent into exile; but, strictly considered, there was not the
slightest justification for the institution of regular legal pro-
ceedings against him. I still remember how excited W. S.
Korsak, the counsel for the prosecution, was during the trial,
and, indeed, when only a few minutes before he delivered his
address, I talked with him for a moment or two. He confessed
to me quite frankly how difficult he found it to bring Lo-
puchin’s conduct within the scope of the paragraph cited.
Nevertheless, the guilty Chief was condemned and exiled to
Siberia, a circumstance which, naturally, did not contribute
towards enhancing the prestige of the Police Department.
Every secret assistant was, after all, a traitor to his com-
rades, and I always impressed upon my subordinates that they
must never lost sight of the fact. This was all the more neces-
sary because, unfortunately, many detective officers betrayed a
degree of blind confidence in their agents that passed belief.
It can be easily understood that it was no simple task for
the heads of the Police Service always to hit the right line
in the treatment of their agents: firstly to make it possible
for them to collect information, then to forbid them all active
participation in punishable offences, and finally to shield them
from discovery by their party. There is also to be considered
a certain psychological phenomenon that almost regularly ap-
peared among the secret assistants: they were continuously in
Page 94
Page 94
78
THE OCHRANA
touch both with the Police and with the revolutionaries, and
consequently found themselves in an extremely unnatural posi-
tion, which exercised the most harmful influence on the state
of their nerves. The treachery which they were practising all
the time toward their real comrades in political opinion, and
which quite frequently led those comrades to imprisonment
or exile, weighed upon the consciences of these people; while,
on the other hand, they must always have been in terror lest
they should be found out by the revolutionaries, and mur-
dered. Therefore, in the life of every secret agent there would
almost certainly come a moment when he regretted the double
game upon which he had embarked. This critical phase led
many a time to a sudden blazing up of fanatical hatred for
the Ochrana officer who controlled the agent’s activities. Upon
him the whilom revolutionary would wish to avenge him-
self for his own moral lapse. That is the explanation of the
fact that Police officials were so often murdered by agents in
their service who had till then proved absolutely trustworthy.
Experienced leaders in the Secret Agency were able to detect
at once when such a crisis was approaching in the mind of one
of their agents, and would then seek to anticipate a catastrophe
by withdrawing the man from active service, and by finding
him occupation of another kind more easily reconcilable with
his conscience.
But not all the officials of the detective service were con-
scious of these difficulties. Very often, too, the affairs of the
Secret Agency were treated with endless red tape, on thor-
oughly bureaucratic lines, as if the one thing that mattered
was the multiplication of documents. Time was*wasted on
such futilities, and meanwhile the most precious results pro-
duced by secret observation were lost or remained simply un-
used. It might, and did, happen that in some districts, though
the Secret Police were quite well informed by their assistants
Page 95
Page 95
THE OCHRANA
79
of the abominable practices of the revolutionary societies, the
people in charge of the Sections in question would calmly
go on piling up papers, and never make up their minds to
intervene in any energetic fashion. Such bureaucratic methods
were, in the Ochrana, even more out of place than in any
other branch of the State service, and the situations to which
they gave rise were sometimes too grotesque.
Once, when I was making a tour of inspection in the Goy-
ernment of Penza, I came upon a very curious state of affairs.
For a year past the Ochrana officer in charge of the district
had been keeping a careful watch upon the proceedings of
the rebel groups, and I was absolutely astounded at the full-
ness and the minuteness of the intelligence he had collected.
Not only were all the plans of the revolutionaries exactly de-
tailed in the records, but there was a long list of persons known
to the authorities as having been for some time addicted to
seditious practices. I asked the officer in command if he would
explain to me why, with such complete evidence at his dis-
posal, he had not six months before, set about restoring order
by arresting the whole band. To this question I received the
artless reply that there were still lacking one or two particu-
lars about a few of the agitators, whose personal characteristics
were rather inadequately described in the existing documents.
Naturally I gave immediate instructions to proceed without
further delay to the arrest of the ringleaders, suggesting that,
if some unimportant folk got off with a rude shock, that would
not be of such serious consequence as the continuance of an
attitude of silent toleration toward that dangerous group. I
gave the officer commanding to understand that, if he did not
take steps, and at once, he would soon find it impossible to
act at all, for one of those days the garrison, whom the revolu-
tionaries were inciting to mutiny, would be arresting him and
the whole Police Force.
Page 96
Page 96
80
THE OCHRANA
The inability of many of the Ochrana officials to recognize
in time the crisis in the temper of their collaborators, no less
than the blind confidence which those officials, in general,
showed with regard to their agents, led frequently to fatal
catastrophes. Such a case was the murder of Colonel S. G.
Karpov, who, in his capacity of Chief of the Petersburg
Ochrana, had entered into most intimate association with one
of his men in the Secret Service, and paid for his ill-advised
trust by the loss of his life. I was myself a personal friend of
Karpov’s, who used often to look me up and tell me very
frankly all that was on his mind: I was at that time serving
in the office of the Public Prosecutor of Petersburg, and con-
sequently had nothing directly to do with the Secret Police.
One evening Karpov had again called upon me and said to
me very mysteriously as he bade me good-bye, that he was
just on the point of laying bare a great Terrorist conspiracy,
and that, on that very evening, with this in view, he was going
to meet a secret agent in a specially rented little flat, where
the latter was to reveal to him all the threads of the plot.
With pride and satisfaction Karpov expressed the hope that,
within a short time, thanks to the reports brought in by that
agent, the lives of Ministers would cease to be endangered. In
answer to my question whether Karpov had known the man
long, the Colonel said he had not, but that the agent had
been very highly recommended to him and that he had no
grounds whatever for doubting his trustworthiness and loyalty.
“Sergyei Georgyevitsh,” I warned him, “One may be brave,
but there is nothing to be gained by foolhardiness! It is, after
all, a very risky business to share the occupancy of rooms with
an individual who, when all is said, can only be described as
a traitor!”
He replied frankly and cheerfully that he had no fear, and
was ready to do anything to check the revolutionary terror.
Page 97
Page 97
THE OCHRANA
81
He added that, by doing what he intended, he would prevent
the assassination of the Prime Minister, Stolypin, General Kur-
lov, and other high-placed public servants, whose lives were
being seriously threatened. With these words he took his
departure.
After midnight an official attached to the Ochrana called
at my place and inquired whether his Chief was still there.
I immediately had an uncanny feeling that something was
wrong, but when I asked a question I received a perfectly
colourless reply. Not more than an hour later, however, I
knew of the dreadful end of my friend.
I shall briefly narrate the events that led up to this tragedy,
and how it actually happened. In the spring of the year 1909
the Ochrana had received numerous confidential reports con-
cerning a projected attack on the life of the Tsar, and these
intimations sounded all the more serious, because at that time
the Emperor was proposing to undertake long journeys
through Russia. The information that the Ochrana had been
able to obtain about this conspiracy against the life of the
Monarch was, however, very scanty; and the most exalted per-
sonalities, right up to the Prime Minister, felt very insecure
and were really in terror lest some disaster should occur. It
was just at the critical moment when the Tsar was about to
leave Petersburg that the Commander of the Gendarmerie in
Saratov sent in word that a revolutionary named Petrov, who
was imprisoned there, had offered to make communications
about the plot, on condition that he should be set free.
The Ministry of the Interior, in view of the exceptional im
portance of the matter, decided to accede to Petrov’s sugges:
tion and to facilitate his escape from prison. From that
moment the revolutionary was under the supervision of the
Ochrana and especially of Colonel Karpov. He supplied vari-
ous pieces of information which, however, proved to be partly
Page 98
Page 98
82
-
THE OCHRANA
of no consequence and partly not altogether reliable. Mean-
while the Tsar’s journey passed off without incident.
A few days before his death Colonel Karpov had again had
an interview with Petrov, who had, as I have already related,
promised to reveal to him details of some new plot. The Ter-
rorist had succeeded in gaining Karpov’s complete confidence;
and finally it was resolved that the two, Karpov and Petrov,
should for some weeks live together at a secret address, a flat
having been hired for the purpose in Archangel Street. Petrov
had insisted on this arrangement, declaring that only thus
could he remain in touch with Karpov, without exciting the
suspicion of the revolutionaries.
But surely the limit of carelessness was touched by the
Ochrana when they allowed Petrov to look after the fitting
up of this flat. The first thing he saw to was the installation
of electric bells. The flat consisted of three rooms and a kitchen,
all of which opened on to a corridor. The middle room was in-
tended for the common use of both tenants, and Petroy pro-
cured a sofa and an old-fashioned round table with a broad,
heavy base.
The bell system fitted up consisted of a wire from the street
door and one from the door of the flat; the former was con-
trolled by a special switch and could be thrown out of action.
Then Petrov procured a large quantity of dynamite, which he
concealed in the hollow leg of the table and connected to an-
other set of electric wires so arranged that they passed un-
noticed.
It was on that last evening when Karpov called on me
that he was to go for the first time to meet Petrov in the new
flat. Meantime the latter had connected up the wire from the
street door with the circuit that was to ignite the charge of dy-
namite; and then, by means of the switch provided for the
purpose, he had temporarily cut out the front-door bell. When,
Page 99
Page 99
THE OCHRANA
83
therefore, the Colonel arrived, the bell was not working, and
it was only by calling out that Karpov could make his presence
known. Petrov opened the door to him, showed him into the
flat, and then, on some pretext or another, he left him. He
turned on the fatal switch, went out to the street, and pressed
the button at the front door. The dynamite exploded, and
Karpov was, in the most literal sense of the word, torn to
pieces.
Only by a lucky chance was the treacherous agent seized
in the street, just as he was getting into an ordinary Finnish
sledge, which was there in readiness to secure his escape. He
was condemned to death and executed, without his having
given the slightest hint as to the real motives for his hor-
rible deed.
General Kurlov told me afterward that, from the very start,
he had always entertained the gravest doubts as to Petrov’s
trustworthiness, and had over and over again advised Karpov
to test very carefully all data supplied by that agent, and never
in any way to trust the man himself. Just before Kurlov went
to the Crimea, in order to supervise all precautions being taken
in connexion with the Tsar’s journey, Colonel Karpov had
submitted to him highly improbable reports sent in by Petrov;
and Kurlov had once more emphasized his opinion that this
agent was a very shady customer.
But the Colonel had merely
asserted that he would answer for Petrov with his head.
“Take care that you do not lose your head,” General Kurlov
had answered, and subsequent events were to show that he was
unfortunately only too near the mark.
In a similar manner Radom, the Commander of the Gen-
darmerie, fell, in the following year, a victim to a Terrorist
who had managed to procure access to his person under the
guise of an agent anxious to assist the work of the Secret
Police. The official, with misplaced confidence enough, re-
Page 100
Page 100
84
' THE OCHRANA
ceived him without witnesses, in his own home, whereupon
the Terrorist suddenly whipped out a revolver and fired sev-
eral shots at his victim, killing him outright.
.
Among the most exciting experiences of my life must be
reckoned the murder of A. M. Maximovsky, a prison governor.
I shall relate some of the dramatic circumstances accompany-
ing it. One evening a woman appeared in the central office of
the prison and requested to be allowed to see Maximovsky.
No sooner had the governor stepped out of his room into the
waiting-room than the stranger produced a pistol and fired
several times at him. He collapsed at once, streaming with
—
blood and mortally wounded. The murderess thereupon tried
to throw the instrument of death through the window on to
the street, but was prevented from so doing by an official
who happened to come upon the scene. It turned out later that ~
the throwing out of the revolver would have served as a sign
to the other members of the conspiracy—the criminal was not
acting alone—that the outrage had been successfully carried
out. For it was discovered that the Terrorists had planned to
kill also the Minister of Justice and the Chief of the City Police
of Petersburg. As soon as the signal agreed upon had been
given other conspirators would have hastened to the houses
of those two personalities, and there waited until they started
for the scene of the first crime. In the general confusion it
would probably not have been difficult for the scoundrels to
shoot down both those exalted personages.
Accompanied by General Kurlov I betook myself as soon as
the news arrived to the prison, where Shtsheglovitoy, the
Minister of Justice, the Chief of the City Police, and a few
other high officials had already arrived. The murderess re-
fused persistently to give her name, and mockingly declared
that it was
the business
of the authorities
to establish
Page 101
Page 101
ter}
DesTRUCTION
WROUGHT
BY
THE
ExPLosIon
at
STOLYPIN’s
VILLA
Page 102
Page 102
SYOLVUIdSNOT)
AHL
Ad
AAS()
HOVIMAVS)
dauaALLVHS—NIdATOLG
dO
AXIT
AHL
NO
LINALLY
TNdssdOONsSN¢)
FHL
WALAy
Page 103
Page 103
THE OCHRANA
85
her identity. General Kurlov ordered her to be searched by
women attendants who were present. A remark made by the
woman, however, made us suspect that she had explosives
about her person; and I must admit that, at that moment,
we all felt very uncomfortable. Some policemen held the
woman firmly by hands and feet while First Lieutenant Ko-
missarov, who had been formerly in the Artillery, set about
examining her. And he did really find in the criminal’s cor-
sage a quantity of dynamite that would have sufficed to blow
the whole house to atoms. It was a miracle that Komissaroy
was able to deal with this terrifying charge, so that it did no
harm and that we were not all utterly destroyed.
A propos of the relations between the Police authorities and
the revolutionaries, I should like finally to add a brief account
of the assassination of Stolypin, the President of the Council
of Ministers, as statements have been frequently circulated
about this lamentable occurrence that are absolutely false.
Some irresponsible busybodies have even had the effrontery to
accuse certain members of the Imperial House of being indi-
rectly to blame for this crime.
As far back as August 1906 a sinister attempt was made on
Stolypin’s life. The Minister himself escaped as by a miracle,
but some members of his family and numerous other per-
sons were victims of this plot. The crime was committed in
the days when Stolypin lived in his villa on Apothecary
Island, and used to entertain on a lavish scale. Four con-
spirators drove up in a carriage to the door of the Minister’s
house, behaving as if they were among the invited guests, and
entered the house. One of them was in uniform and was wear-
ing a helmet, inside which a charge of dynamite was con-
cealed. When he threw down this helmet there followed a
terrific explosion, which at once transformed the house into
Page 104
Page 104
86
THE OCHRANA
a heap of ruins. Several guests and a number of servants were
killed; Stolypin’s son and daughter were severely wounded.
The insane assassins were themselves blown to pieces by
their bomb.
This horrible event contributed largely to the change in the
direction of the Minister’s policy, which dates from that time:
to begin with, his inclinations had been rather toward liberal
views, but now he adopted an attitude of energetic opposition
to all radical tendencies in the country. Having had a miracu-
lous escape from one assault on his life, he thenceforth set his
face firmly and decidedly against every revolutionary move-
ment, and stuck to his post unmoved, until he was laid low
by another attack.
It was in the summer of 1911 that he was at last overtaken
by the fate that he had so often felt to be at his heels. The
Tsar was then on his way to Kiev, and in his suite, along with
other eminent personages, was the President of the Council.
The authorities had taken comprehensive measures to protect
the Tsar from attack, and at Stolypin’s behest the supreme
control of the Police Service had been entrusted to General
Kurloy.
A few days after the Court arrived in Kiev a former secret
agent, named Bagrov, presented himself at the office of the
local Ochrana, with the information that he knew the details
of a plot against the life of the Tsar that was being hatched
by a certain group of conspirators who intended to carry out
their plans in Kiev. What Bagrov had to report sounded very
definite, and therefore the authorities made their precautions
even more complete than they were already. Nothing of an
exceptional nature took place, however—for a time.
The programme of festivities included a performance in the
Kiev Theatre, and it goes without saying that, on this occa-
Page 105
Page 105
THE OCHRANA
87
sion, when the Emperor and all the high officials in his train
were gathered together, most particular care would be taken
in checking the identity of all the guests. General Kurlov had
been very wary in the steps he had taken to ensure that not a
single person would find admission who was not far removed
from the least breath of suspicion. Consequently everyone
thought he could afford to keep his mind easy for that eve-
ning; no one had the slightest foreboding that, during the
performance of the play itself, the Prime Minister would be
murdered.
It was none other than that secret agent Bagrov who did
the work. Under some pretext or other he appeared in the
theatre while the play was going on, and delivered to First
Lieutenant Kulyabko, the head of the Special Police Service in
Kiev, some quite insignificant piece of intelligence. Thereupon
Kulyabko was guilty of an act of great imprudence, and one
which was to involve the most serious consequences: after
Bagrov had given his message Kulyabko did indeed tell him
to be off home, but neglected to make sure himself that the
agent had obeyed the order. Without troubling further about
Bagrov, Kulyabko devoted himself to the other duties that
fell to him, so that Bagrov found an opportunity, during the
interval, of slipping unnoticed into the auditorium. Suddenly
several shots were fired at Stolypin, who fell down severely
wounded. He died two days later in hospital as the result of
his injuries.
This affair provided the enemies of General Kurlov with a
welcome pretext for making out that he, as supreme head of
the Special Police Service, was solely responsible for the disas-
ter. His Majesty commanded that an inquiry should be held,
which was to be conducted by Trusyevitsh, the Chief of Po-
lice in Russia; and although Trusyevitsh was not very kindly
Page 106
Page 106
88
THE OCHRANA
disposed toward General Kurlov, this inquiry led to nothing,
and it was in the end stopped again at the command of.
the Tsar.
What the circumstances were that induced the secret agent
Bagrov to murder Stolypin has never been quite clearly made
out. It may be that, from the outset, he had intended to com-
mit the crime, and that for this purpose he had wormed him-
self into the confidence of the authorities by supplying false
intelligence. More probable, however, appears the assumption
that the band of conspirators to which he belonged selected
him only at the last moment to kill the Prime Minister, and
that he did not dare, for fear of their vengeance, to refuse to
carry out the order received.
In the years subsequent to the first Russian Revolution the
Polish Socialists distinguished themselves by their sanguinary
Terrorist fight with the Government. Under the leadership of
Pilsudski, afterward President of the Republic, this party
waged savage warfare especially against the Ochrana. They
slew mercilessly every secret agent whose name they managed
to get to know. Thus it came about that, within a short period,
more than a thousand informers and Government officials
fell by the assassin’s hand; and the criminals, for the most
part, carried out their plans with such masterly skill that, once
the deed was done, they made off without leaving a clue.
Another special line of the Polish Socialist Party was the
organization of surprise attacks upon railways trains, banks,
and post-offices, by means of which these dangerous rebels
were able to provide themselves with means of support and
funds for the continuance of their detestable practices. At these
raids it often happened that all officials who endeavoured to
offer any resistance were ruthlessly cut down. It called for the
utmost efforts on the part of the Ochrana to put an end to this
Page 107
Page 107
LATING
JHL
Ad
HONOUH,
LOHS
NIdUATOLS
AT
NYOA\
SSOUD
FHT,
NIGATOLS
dO
WAUAGCUAYL
FHL
‘AOWOVG
AULINIG
Page 108
Page 108
Murpvrer oF CotoneL Karpov—SrEcrer RENDEZVous AFTER
THE
EXPLOSION
See page So
Page 109
Page 109
THE OCHRANA
89
scandalous state of matters; but it was stopped at last, to some
extent, thanks chiefly to the ingenuity of the Moscow Ochrana.
The examples I have adduced show clearly enough how
difficult, how responsible, and how perilous service in the Och-
rana was, and how complicated were the relations that sub-
sisted between the Police and their secret agents.
Page 110
Page 110
CHAPTER V
A Police Gazette for the Tsar—The Black Cabinets—Invisible Writing
—A Master in Decoding—The Cipher of the Ochrana—Burtsev un-
masks his Friends—Friends and Foes of the Ochrana
N ORDER to supply their officials with the latest news
of all that was going on in the revolutionary camp, the
Ochrana issued its own Service periodicals. To begin with, it
published an annual volume describing the state of the various
seditious parties at the moment, with details of their pro-
grammes and publications, and including lists of their mem-
bers. Later on, between the years 1902 and 1905, a regular
Ochrana Gazette appeared, generally twice a month, in litho-
graph; copies were sent to all the chiefs of the local Ochrana
Sections.
In this sheet everything was contained that had come to the
knowledge, for the time being, of the Ochrana.
It embodied
the substance of the reports sent in by the External and the
Secret Agencies, and dealt with the most recent activities of
the revolutionary groups. Strict attention had to be given to a
point mentioned before: the avoidance of all reference to the
secret agents under their own names, so that if by chance a
copy of the journal should find its way into the hands of the
revolutionaries, it might not lead to the identification of the
agents. If one of these secret assistants had distinguished
himself by bringing in peculiarly important evidence, recog-
nition of his services and the due meed of praise were con-
veyed to him, under his assumed name, in this gazette.
Another publication of the Ochrana deserves mention. This
was a journal of which only a single copy of each issue was
produced; it was intended for the personal use of the Tsar. In
this way the Secret Police submitted to the Emperor twice a
90
Page 111
Page 111
THE OCHRAN A
oz
month a sort of statement of accounts, and the Tsar used to
read this with great interest and to annotate it in his own
hand. The Minister of the Interior would then expressly direct
the attention of the Ochrana to those passages marked by the
Tsar, and give instructions to have most careful inquiries
made in connexion with the affairs in question. Thus the
Ochrana always knew exactly, when their gazette was re-
turned to them, which part of their investigations had par-
ticularly attracted the Emperor’s notice.
His Majesty was always very desirous of being minutely
posted in all the details of the revolutionary movement and of
the fight being waged against it. He attached great value to
complete accounts of the discovery of secret printing-presses,
of plots, forbidden libraries, and other seditious organizations.
Whenever the Ochrana had succeeded in confiscating procla-
mations issued by the agitators, these were always appended
to the gazette. This was also done with revolutionary pam-
phlets, and with the tickets for lotteries that had been got up
for the benefit of the revolutionaries—for such lotteries were
sometimes arranged.
The Ochrana was also responsible for the secret censor-
ship of letters, which had been practised in Russia for a very
long time. Even in the eighteenth century Chancellor Betu-
shev had been able to reveal the insidious intrigues of the
French Ambassador by having his correspondence and dis-
patches closely watched, and then bringing to the notice of
Empress Elizabeth the evidence of that diplomat’s hostility to
the interests of our land. When, in the reign of Nicholas I,
the Corps of Gendarmerie was instituted, the Commandant
pointed out in an early memorandum the necessity of main-
taining a censorship of correspondence, and made arrange-
ments for the establishment of a secret censor’s department in
all the important post-offices in Russia. Tsar Alexander III also
Page 112
Page 112
92
-
THE OCHRANA
signified his emphatic approval of this procedure, and, by a
special edict, empowered the Minister of the Interior to open
private correspondence, as a measure of protection to the State.
This edict was, from its first coming into force, treated as
strictly confidential, and was handed over in a sealed envelope
to the Minister of the Interior for the time being. When the
new Minister had taken cognizance of the contents, the docu-
ment was sealed up again and preserved till the next change
of Ministers.
The Police Department kept the heads of the Post and
Telegraph Office regularly informed of the names of persons
—
whose letters were of interest to the Government. Moreover,
most letters coming from, or addressed to, foreign countries
were censored. During the last years before the Revolution,
in the post-offices of Petersburg, Moscow, Warsaw, Odessa,
Kiev, Charkov, Riga, Vilna, Tomsk, and Tiflis there were
so-called “black cabinets” regularly at work; and, in addition,
when circumstances made it seem expedient, a temporary cen-
sorship was set up in other towns.
Every office of the kind had at its disposal a number of spe-
cially competent linguists and the requisite technical equip-
ment for the opening and closing of letters. Generally, the
envelope would be held over steam until the gum had melted;
then the contents would be copied, replaced in the envelope,
and posted again. The employees of these “black cabinets” ac-
quired such a flair that they often opened letters whose writers
were not on the lists of the Police Department: little signs,
such as dots, dashes, or crosses, on the envelope were sufficient
to awaken the suspicion of the censors.
This whole procedure will perhaps appear surprising, as it
is in conflict with views that have become accepted in certain
democratic States. But I should like to point out that this
censorship of letters many a time enabled the Russian Police
Page 113
Page 113
THE OCHRANA
93
to prevent robberies, murders, and Terrorist crimes. The ad-
vantages of the system were therefore undoubtedly very real,
and I do not believe that the disadvantages were ever worthy
of serious consideration. The right-minded citizen certainly
never had any reason to fear the censorship, for private busi-
"75 was, on principle, completely ignored.
Of course, in spite of all precautions and of the strictest
secrecy with which the system was surrounded, the revolu-
tionaries were quite well aware of the existence of the cen-
sorship, and endeavoured by all sorts of ingenious devices to
avoid having their schemes discovered by its agency. With
this end in view they would often send each other quite harm-
less letters written in ordinary ink, but between the lines of
the apparently innocent communication would be written the
message that really mattered, in invisible ink. In such cases
the Ochrana found itself on the horns of a dilemma: either
the invisible script was to be brought up, or the job must be
left definitely alone and the letter of interest sent on unread
to the addressee. It was, naturally, not a very difficult task to
make such sympathetic inks visible; generally all that was
needed was to treat the paper with lemon juice, chlorine
water, or milk, or else to apply gentle heat. If, however, such
a piece of secret writing had once been revealed, the letter in
question could not, of course, be delivered. On the other hand,
it was a hard thing to decide not to try to bring to light mes-
sages that were possibly of the highest political import.
A solution to this puzzle was hit upon by First Lieutenant
G. G. Metz, an officer of Gendarmes attached to the Police
Department. Being a very intelligent and cultured man and
an enthusiastic photographer, he devised a method of deci-
phering such letters by photographic means that left not the
slightest mark on the letter itself. From that moment it was
possible to read messages in invisible ink without the receivers
Page 114
Page 114
94
-
THE OCHRANA
having any idea that the correspondence had been tam-
pered with.
The task presented to us was a harder one when we were
faced with letters drawn up in cryptic writing or in cipher.
For the decoding of such messages a special official was ap-
pointed, who had peculiar gifts for this work, and whose real
name, for various reasons, I do not wish to mention. I shall
therefore simply call him Nezlobin.
He had an uncanny talent for divination and reconstruc-
tion, and was able to find the key to the most complicated
ciphers. An insignificant act of aggression had been com-
mitted in Sebastopol, and during the course of a domiciliary
visit made immediately after a sheet of paper was found cov-
ered with figures and without a single letter upon it. When
this document reached my department I handed it over to the
said Nezlobin, with a request to set to work at once on the
decoding of it. On the following day Nezlobin called upon
me and suggested that I should telegraph to Sebastopol for a
list of all the books that had been found during the search.
I certainly had not the haziest idea what this was for, but I
acceded to the wish of my collaborator, and at once received
a detailed report enumerating a number of quite harmless lit-
erary works. A short time after, Nezlobin placed before me
the decoded text of the sheet that had looked so incomprehen-
sible. In reply to my inquiry, he explained that the key to the
cipher had been provided by page thirty-two of a book by
Kuprin, Poedinka. The numbers signified the line and the
letter in each line on that thirty-second page. That is to say,
each pair of numbers indicated a letter, and so the mystery
was solved. I admired the genius or instinct of Nezlobin which
had been revealed in this case very clearly, and obtained for
him a certain order and the increase in salary that went with it.
On another occasion, when he was likewise employed on a
Page 115
Page 115
THE OCHRANA
95
sheet covered with arithmetical figures, he inquired of me
what was the price of a pound of dynamite. I was rather as-
tonished and asked him why he was taking an interest in
such a matter. He replied very modestly that he thought the
cipher referred to explosives. This time again he had got the
right inspiration, for the price of dynamite did actually lead
him to the solution of the cipher.
The man had an incredibly sure sense for everything that
was designed to mislead, and more than once, after taking
merely a quick glance at a document in cipher, he was able
to say that this or that line was of no importance whatever
and was simply to be ignored in decoding. Or he would at
once point out the intervals at which meaningless groups of
figures were introduced merely to add to the difficulty of find-
ing the key.
Moreover, the Ochrana made use, for its own dispatches,
of a cipher which was very difficult to work out. It was based
on the principle of two movable scales, placed against each
other in such a way that the letters in alphabetical order cor-
responded to a sliding scale of figures arranged in a special
order; the scales had, however, to be adjusted properly to each
other on any given occasion in order to make it possible to
read the message, which was drawn up in figures instead of
letters. As the key varied not only from one dispatch to the
next, but also several times within the same text, the decoding
of such a message was almost impossible for the uninitiated.
The Journal of the Ochrana prepared for the Tsar, to which
reference has already been made, frequently contained mate-
rials supplied by the “black cabinets.” For some time, for ex-
ample, all letters by Leo Tolstoi were opened and photographed
by the censor, and some of his writings in which Tolstoi had
given expression to his anti-militarist views, were submitted to
the Emperor.
Page 116
Page 116
96
_
THE OCHRANA
Before I leave the subject of the detective service I should
like to say one word more about the expression provocateur.
This designation, which, as has been already suggested, was
employed in seditious circles for all assistants in the Secret
Agency, was first used, if I am not mistaken, by Burtsev.
Burtsev, a base but able journalist, who had in a sense risen to
be controller of the press for the Revolution, was very anxious
on one occasion to learn which members of the various revolu-
tionary groups were maintaining secret relations with the
Ochrana. He attained this object by the very simple process
of drawing up a list of persons who appeared to him to be
suspicious characters and whose names he published in a
series of articles, calling them provocateurs. Then he waited
quietly till the people in question had cleared themselves in
the eyes of their organizations, or had by them been de-
clared guilty.
This was by no means displeasing to the Government, and
I, personally, was highly delighted at this unmasking cam-
paign of Burtsev’s. For it gave rise to the greatest confusion
among the revolutionaries, who fell to suspecting each other,
so that in the end no conspirator could trust another. In con-
sequence, the activities of the rebels were seriously hampered
for quite a time.
From all that I have said so far the reader has now prob-
ably obtained some little insight into the operation and meth-
ods of the much-maligned Ochrana. At the same time, if he
is able to take an unprejudiced view of things, he will have
been convinced that the action of that body was never directed
against orderly subjects of the Tsar who knew their duty and
attended to it, and that these had no reason whatever to fear
the Ochrana. Like the Political Police in all other lands, the
Ochrana fought only the disastrous agitation carried on by
seditious elements in the population, and did its utmost to
Page 117
Page 117
THE OCHRANA
97
prevent those things happening which, after all and in spite of
the efforts of its conscientious officials, did come to pass. Per-
haps much might have turned out otherwise, perhaps the lives
of many thousands might have been saved, if the Tsarist au-
thorities had not shown such strict consideration for existing
laws, and had in many cases intervened more sternly and more
energetically than they actually did.
The real honest Russian has always had respect for power
that was power, and he bowed before it, without asking ques-
tions, or meditating upon the reasons there might be for com-
mands given, even though these were often difficult to fulfil
or to endure. The explanation was that the Russian, in the
depths of his soul, knew and understood that the authorities
had been appointed by the Tsar in order that they might serve
him faithfully and advance by all possible means the welfare
of Russia. So that the peaceful and patriotic inhabitants of the
Russian Empire were really proud of their Police and were in-
dignant when they heard of isolated examples that occurred
here and there of corruption and neglect of duty. It is only
now, having learned from the bitter experiences of the Revo-
lution and of the Bolshevik régime, that we emigrants are in
better position than ever to make a just comparison between
the political conditions of the Tsardom, much decried as they
were, and those that prevail under the Soviets. In the light of
such facts, no doubt, many a Russian who once inveighed
against the Ochrana will have arrived at a more correct esti-
mate of that institution.
Page 118
Page 118
CHAPTER VI
The Government and the Jewish Question—The Part played by the
Jews in preparing the Way for the Revolution—Were the Jews in
Russia oppressed? —The Problem of Settlement—Evasion of Military
Service—Disillusioned Emigrants—The New York Council of the
Jewish People—Intrigues in America
LOSELY related to the accusation of provocation is the
Gs
assertion, made over and over again in Liberal and So-
cialist quarters, that the authorities of Tsarist Russia not
merely showed benevolent toleration toward the persecution
of Jews and the pogroms (riots) organized against them, but
actually arranged such manifestations themselves. Especially
the former Minister of the Interior, Plehve, who was so shame-
fully done to death, was widely regarded as an instigator of
Anti-Semitic excesses. The responsibility for the pogrom that
took place at Easter 1903 in Kishinyov was particularly ascribed
to him.
Now, everyone knows that Russia was by no means the only
State in which the aversion of the population for Jews gave
vent to itself from time to time in tumults of violence that
no one certainly would care to defend. But while similar in-
cidents occurring abroad passed almost unnoticed, stories of
this kind affecting Russia were told, in ever new varients and
thousands of times over, in the Press of the extreme Left, so
that they obtained the widest publicity throughout the world.
The notorious fact is that certain persons were so consumed
with zeal for the ruin of the Russian Empire that, for them,
it was a necessity to fabricate the base slander that the Im-
perial Government took a share in staging the pogroms. For
that reason it was never allowed to die down, but was con-
tinually revived, until our glorious Russia was really destroyed.
98
Page 119
Page 119
THE OCHRANA
99
After the Revolution the Provisional Government rum-
maged the archives of the Ochrana from top to bottom, in the
hope of discovering documents that would compromise the
old régime in this respect. But nothing of the kind was
found; on the contrary, many orders were brought to the
light of day forbidding, under threat of very severe penalties,
all participation by Government
officials in Anti-Semitic
movements.
No doubt the archives of the Police Department yielded
many an interesting document that went to prove that the
Government was not always what would be called kindly dis-
posed toward the Jews. At the same time, however, these
documents indicated the grounds for this attitude, and they
were doubtless cogent enough.
From of old the Jewish element had notoriously played a
very important part in preparing the ground for the Revo-
lution. As far back as the year 1897 the General Union of
Jewish Workmen had been founded; and it soon developed
into one of the most dangerous of the revolutionary associa-
tions. In this so-called Alliance magnificent organization was
combined with typical Jewish fanaticism and hatred of the
existing Government. The secret organ of this group, styled
The Will of the Workers, became within a short time one of
the leading revolutionary papers in Russia. It was by this jour-
nal proclaimed to the whole world that in the Empire of the
Tsar the Jews were shamefully oppressed, that they were not
treated as citizens having the same rights and privileges as
others, and that pogroms were organized against them.
But were the Jews, then, really so oppressed that for decades
on end the attention of the whole civilized world should have
been directed by excited newspaper articles to the conditions
prevailing among us? Was there any justification for that? It
is, no doubt, true that long ago the so-called Pale was created
Page 120
Page 120
100
' THE OCHRANA
in Russia—that is, certain governments (provinces) were re-
served for Jewish settlement, while in others they were not
permitted to reside. But we can all testify that this law was con-
tinually evaded, and that countless Jews, with the consent of
the authorities, lived in towns that should have been closed to
them. The Police looked upon the fact with benevolence and
shut both eyes. A few figures will serve to show the reader
what the real truth of the matter was with regard to this
question of the oppression of the Jews. In Russian Poland, for
example, the Jewish population in the year 1856 amounted to
a bare ninety thousand, but by the year 1908 it had risen to
over half a million. In Warsaw at the beginning of the nine-
teenth century the Jewish element had embraced only 12
per cent. of the inhabitants; in the year 1913, on the other
hand, it represented 37 per cent. In other words, while the
whole population of that city had been multiplied by twelve,
the actual number of the Jews had multiplied forty-fold dur-
ing the course of a century.
In other Russian towns very similar observations might be
made. In Odessa, for example, the Jewish element increased
within the last twenty years of the Tsardom by fully one-third.
In Petersburg, which, according to the strict letter of the law,
should really have been for Jews a forbidden city, there were
living, all the same, more than twenty thousand persons con-
fessing the Hebrew faith.
No one can deny that throughout Russia the medical pro-
fession, the bar, the merchant class, the banks, the Press, and
the Exchange were swarming with Jews, not to mention other
lines of business, such as music, watchmaking, tailoring, and
many more that were at least profitable, though not always
honourable. On the other hand, no one ever observed that the
Jews had understanding or inclination for agriculture, or had
devoted themselves to that calling.
Page 121
Page 121
THE OCHRANXA
IO
The Emperor Alexander I had already expressly granted per-
mission to the Jews to acquire property in land and to farm
it. His successor, Nicholas I, strove again and again, devoting
considerable State funds to the purpose, to induce the Jews to
settle on the land. To those who professed their willingness to
do so he granted special privileges, such as exemption from
compulsory military service. But it soon appeared that colonies
of agriculturalists founded in this way could not maintain
themselves. The Jewish population could simply not be accus-
tomed to earning its livelihood by any means other than busi-
ness or trade. So the well-intentioned attempt had to be given
up, and a path was entered upon that led in the very oppo-
site direction.
It was just in this unfortunate inaptitude of the Jews for
healthy productive work that the core of the evil was to be
found. The Government would never have had the slightest
reason to adopt measures directed against the Jews had not
these been rendered imperative by the necessity for protecting
the Russian population, and especially the peasants. For the
Jewish traders, speculators, and usurers constituted, for those
people, the most serious economic danger. The Russian peas-
ant was far too artless and credible to be able to defend himself
with his own resources against the intelligence and the un-
scrupulousness of the Jews. The authorities had to come to the
assistance of the people in this struggle for life by means of
legislation, and this was the sole purpose of all the prescrip-
tions and measures adopted to deal with the Jewish problem.
I can still remember how, about the year 1900, two gov-
ernors from the Volga country complained of the activity of
Jewish middlemen and monopolists in the Rudinsk corn re-
gion. The honest Russian traders could hardly hold their own,
as the prices were fixed by a ring of Jewish profiteers, who
were able to cut out all competition. And yet the two gov-
Page 122
Page 122
102
' THE OCHRANA
ernors alluded to had no means, as they regretfully affirmed,
of placing a check upon those practices, for in Old Russia
the Government was run on the basis of legality—officials
being prohibited from doing anything not sanctioned by the
law and from using their own discretion, however appropriate
such action might have seemed. In another case the Govern-
ment intervened in the shady activities of those Jewish exploit-
ers who had enmeshed all the bread supplies in the toils of
their spider’s net. The result was the long-drawn-out Bread
Case of Nizhny-Novgorod, during which the Jews made every
effort to drag through the mire the honourable name of the
most exalted Government official of the district.
There was a certain kind of oppression of the Jews in Rus-
sia, but, unfortunately, this was far from being as effective as
it ought to have been. The Government did seek to protect
the peasants from the ruthless exploitation of the Jews; but
its action bore only too little fruit, because, despite all prohi-
bitions, the Jews used to go out from the small towns into the
open country, and there buy up the harvest, practising the most
outrageous usury. They were quite willing to take up any
such business, but hard physical toil they took good care to
avoid. Nor did I ever meet a Jew in the situation of a servant.
Another matter which led to continual disputes was that
of military service. The Jews fought shy of serving in the
army, and at the time of the calling up of the conscripts the
Police had to carry on a regular campaign against those Jew-
ish doctors, who, in consideration of generous cash payments,
were always able to diagnose in their co-religionists some kind
of ailment—it might be inflammation of the ear or chronic
disease of the knee. A popular device was the wearing of
glasses that were far too powerful and led to temporary de-
fects of vision. The military doctors did not, it must be ad-
mitted, allow themselves to be taken in for very long, and
Page 123
Page 123
THE OCHRANA
103
kept a particularly sharp look-out when they had to do with
Jews, so that many cases of malingering were successfully
dealt with.
A series of trials before the courts that arose from affairs of
the kind led the Jews to think of other means of escaping the
detested military service. They endeavoured to make their way
abroad in plenty of time; and as official permission to cross the
frontier was not easy to obtain, they would secretly flee to
Austria. That soon called into being a new profession that, of
course, only Jews could follow: there grew up regular secret
emigration offices, which worked hand in hand with smug-
glers living near the frontier. The latter were perfectly ac-
quainted with all the bypaths along which they could take
whole bands of deserters into Austria without ever being no-
ticed. In order to put a stop to this state of things the Ministry
of the Interior issued an order by which Jews who were occu-
pied in smuggling out of the country young men of military
age were expelled from the frontier governments.
After some years, however, there began an organized move-
ment to encourage the emigration of Jewish families to Amer-
ica. It was carried on by the aid of false papers and other
illegal means. It was the United States that proved most at-
tractive to the Russian Jews, who hoped to enjoy a freer life
there and, above all, to find opportunities of getting rich
quickly. The other side of the picture, however, was not long
in showing itself. In America every one who wants to make
money must really work for it, and in this respect the Yankees
admit of no compromise. In that country there has existed
for a long time past a definite tariff for the payment of brokers,
middlemen, and other agents, so that people of that class had
no prospect of making great sums of money quickly and with-
out effort as they had managed to do fairly easily in Russia,
where they had had to do with ignorant peasants.
Page 124
Page 124
104
- THE OCHRANA
Hence there soon arose among many of the Jews who had
migrated to America an ardent desire to return to Russia. The
oppression under the Tsarist rule now seemed to them a more
agreeable condition than the ‘freedom’ that reigned in America.
This mood became so strong that the Council of the Jewish
People sitting in New York determined to initiate action in
the matter.
At the head of this Council sat the Russian physician Jakob
Schiff, who had been one of the first to leave his home. He
rendered many valuable services to his co-religionists and laid
the foundation of that active Jewish policy that was to lead
later on to such far-reaching and disastrous consequences.
They began, then, to sound the Russian Government as to
its probable attitude to returning Russian Jews. These quon-
dam deserters were, of course, already American subjects,
and in Russia would have claimed all the rights of American
citizens, and would, consequently, not have been amenable
even to the special laws enforced in the Empire of the Tsar
against the Jews. Our Ministry of the Interior, however, rec-
ognized at once the danger inherent in this assumption. Under
the protection of their American citizenship these returned
Jews would have been able to do with impunity the very
things that the special legislation of the Empire had been in-
tended to prevent. With these considerations in mind, the
Ministry answered that the authorities would pay no attention
whatever to the American citizenship of the returned emi-
grants and would treat them exactly as if they were Russian
subjects.
Thereupon the Council of the Jewish People determined
to bring pressure to bear upon the Russian Government. And,
to this end, they set about using all possible means to effect
the denunciation of a trade convention that had existed for
more than a century between the United States and Russia,
Page 125
Page 125
THE OCHRANA
105
and that had proved very advantageous to both sides. They
got the length of inducing the then President of the United
States, Taft, to receive a deputation, who conveyed to him their
lamentations over the alleged injustice of the Tsarist Gov-
ernment. It must be admitted that the President lost little
time in replying to the deputation that the statements of the
Jewish leaders were rather exaggerated. He also refused to
undo the trade agreement which had always been observed
by Russia with the utmost strictness and honour. The leader,
Schiff, was so vexed by this snub that he would not shake
hands with the President when he went away.
Then the Jewish Council had recourse to the most varied
intrigues, and set about bringing all its influence to bear upon
the world of finance. Within a year it was able to call into
being a political situation that actually obliged President Taft
to give way; under the extraordinary pressure exerted by the
international power of the Jews, the commercial treaty with
Russia was denounced. This unfriendly act on the part of
the American Government took place in the year 1911, but it
did not achieve the success the Jews had expected. The Russian
Government was far too well aware of its own strength to
yield to such pressure; it allowed the Liberal Press to storm
as it would and troubled no more about it.
Still, the Jews were able to boast that they had revenged
themselves on Russia, and could therewith satisfy that evil
propensity which is so characteristic of the Jewish spirit. Or
perhaps it was not thirst for vengeance when an orator at
the Zionist Congress of the year 1904 proclaimed that the Tsar
would have to pay with his blood for the pogroms he had
instigated.
All these statements are not products of my own fancy. No;
they are supported, from beginning to end, by documents
which came under my purview while I occupied the post of
Page 126
Page 126
106
- THE OCHRANA
Chief of the Police. These documents also afford statistical
proof that, for all offences of a political character, the ma-
jority of the accused have always been of Jewish nationality.
After the Revolution the Jews did indeed have abundant
opportunities of exacting vengeance, and these opportunities
they took care not to neglect. It is they who, through the
Revolution, attained to power and wealth, so that when the
question is asked, “Who, then, should bear the blame for the
collapse of the Tsardom?” we may well answer in the old
Roman phrase, “Is fecit cui prodest”—i.e., he did the thing
who profited by it. To-day there are lying in the Soviet Em-
bassy in Berlin thirty pounds’ weight of diamonds stolen in
Russia and destined to serve the purposes of Bolshevik-Jewish
international propaganda. Not till you have properly consid-
ered such facts, and many more, is it possible to grasp the
meaning of that Roman proverbial saying and to recognize
clearly who, above all others, are responsible for the downfall
of the splendid Empire of the Russian Tsars.
A worthy representative of the new régime was that Jewish
commissary who, after the Bolshevik Revolution, made him-
self notorious for some considerable time in Petersburg by his
scandalous behaviour. This young fellow had been a seamen’s
barber in Odessa, and conducted himself after his promotion
with such shamelessness that he excited the indignation even of
the Communist Party. He abused his office for the purpose of
instituting domiciliary investigations in all clubs, and of ap-
propriating not merely whatever monies he found on hand,
but even the stocks of wine. They subsequently discovered in
his quarters a regular cellar, full of alcoholic beverages, which
he had thus acquired by wholesale theft. He was finally
handed over to the Revolutionary Tribunal, which, of course,
acquitted him, as it was almost always in the way of doing
with thieves and murderers.
Page 127
Page 127
CHAPTER VII
Russian Dissenters—Church Dispute over the Spelling of the Name of
Jesus—The Tsar as Antichrist—Communist Sects—The Gospel of Sin
—Shocking Self-inflicted Mutilations—T
he Dissenters and Leo Tolstoi—
The Sect of Tramps
Y POLICE experience, especially the period of service
spent in several provincial towns, brought me fre-
quently into touch with Russian sectarianism, that peculiar
side of the life of the people in Russia of which Western
Europe knows very little, and of which, therefore, I shall say
something in the following pages.
Perhaps nowhere outside of America does there exist such
a plethora of religious sects as in Russia. And certainly in no
part of the world is there to be found that strange mixture of
religious fanaticism and political radicalism which is charac-
teristic of many of the Russian sects. Owing to the circum-
stance that many of these brotherhoods indulged in ardent
political propaganda, the Police of the Empire was obliged to
take a fairly close interest in these Dissenters. The authorities
could not ignore the activities of zealots whose whole teaching
tended to forbid obedience to both the temporal and the ec-
clesiastical powers, and to insist that the rule of the Tsar meant
the rule of Antichrist.
Probably the most widespread of these sects is that of the
Old Believers. The history of their rise is very typical of much
in the spiritual make-up of the Russian peasant class. In the
sixteenth century the Church, under the guidance of the ener-
getic Patriarch Nikon, set about purging the Liturgy and the
sacred books of numerous errors that had crept in in the course
of ages. But the reform met with violent opposition on the
part of the people. It was especially a change made in the
107
Page 128
Page 128
108
-
THE OCHRANA
spelling of the name of Jesus that excited most bitter feeling
in the minds of men: the uneducated people, deeply attached
to tradition, actually believed that the change of one letter in
this word sufficed to turn the Saviour’s name into the name
of Satan.
All attempts made by the Church authorities to convince
the people of their mistake proved fruitless. In the country
every innovation in the forms of service and in the prayers
was obstinately resisted; and when the Church ultimately had
recourse to forcible measures, threatening everyone who re-
fused to accept the new liturgy with excommunication, the
only result was that great numbers of convinced Old Be-
lievers banded themselves together in open opposition. The
Solovyetsky monastery, for example, which was a stronghold
of the Old Believers, defended itself for seven years against
the reforms, until, on the command of the Tsar, it was taken
by assault.
This sect continued persistently to stand out against all the
measures of compulsion adopted by the Government. Some
of them fled over the nearest frontiers; some concealed them-
selves in bands in the impenetrable forests, to issue forth again
in all manner of disguises, appearing among the people in
order to spread their peculiar tenets. More than once it hap-
pened that one of these communities, rather than fall into
the hands of its persecutors, voluntarily chose death by fire,
men and women shutting themselves up in their huts and
then setting light to them.
The whole movement was at that time directed quite as
much against the Tsar as against the Church, for, to the ig-
norant people, the reforms instituted by Peter appeared to be
the work of the Devil, and the Emperor himself as the Am-
bassador of Antichrist. Nevertheless Peter the Great allowed
the Old Believers to be persecuted only so long as they consti-
Page 129
Page 129
THE OCHRANA
109
tuted a danger to the State, and afterward granted them, under
certain conditions, the privilege of observing their own rites
and customs without let or hindrance.
The Tsarina Catherine carried this policy of toleration even
farther, for she actually invited the Old Believers who had
fled abroad to return to Russia. From that time onward the
Government adopted toward them, for the most part, a more
or less indulgent attitude, and made an attempt to stop only
the most blatant excesses of the Dissenters.
In the course of time there developed among the Old Be-
lievers several varieties, some of which showed greater in-
clination to compromise with the existing order. The most
radical group, however—they were called the Priestless—con-
tinued to maintain their irreconcilable views, steadfastly reject-
ing the Church in every form as well as the State. It does not
require to be said that the authorities were often enough com-
pelled to intervene with appropriate energy against the con-
sequences of such senseless ideas.
No less strange were the teachings of some other bodies
that had grown up in the course of the nineteenth century.
The Stundists, who were widely disseminated, especially in
the south of the Empire, preached a sort of Puritanism, affirm-
ing that the Orthodox Church with its ceremonies was nothing
else than pagan idolatry, while the true Christian should be-
lieve only in the Gospel. This sect itself may have been harm-
less enough; but a brotherhood, sprung from it and calling
itself the New Stundists, soon evolved a sinister Anarchist
programme. These taught that on earth no other power must
rule than the power of God, and that we need neither Govern-
ment nor any other authority; the land belongs to the com-
munity; all property must be subservient to the general weal;
all private ownership is sinful. That is to say, the views of
these New Stundists amounted to nothing else than Com-
Page 130
Page 130
110
._
THE OCHRANA
munism coloured by religion, and against that the Govern-
ment had to defend itself as against any similar aspirations of
a purely political nature.
Other sects, such as the Non-Prayers, refused steadily to
pay taxes or dues of any kind, and likewise preached Com-
munism under the guise of religious claims. In the Caucasus
there arose the sect of God’s People, whose ambition it was
to realize heaven here on earth; and they too insisted upon
the common ownership of property. One group of these God’s
People, calling themselves Duchobors—they denied the divin-
ity of the Holy Ghost—combined to form a kind of independ-
ent State in a pathless mountainous region. The centre of the
community was formed by the Orphan Home, where their
leader dwelt. As these Duchobors were otherwise a quiet,
orderly folk, the Tsarist authorities nearly always managed to
come to a peaceful understanding with them.
Much less innocent were certain other sects, still numer-
ously represented in Russia: the Chlysty, the Skoptsy, the
Molokany, and the Stranniky. The first-named trace their his-
tory back to a certain Daniel Filipitsh, living in the seventeenth
century, who, having been enlightened from above, recog-
nized the ‘only true doctrine, which consists simply in the
belief that man, even in his lifetime, can be united with God,
and that Christ is ever receiving a new incarnation and con-
tinually walks upon this earth in the form of a peasant. From
this belief the Chlysty arrived at the dangerous opinion that
man must sin in order to attain to God, for without sin there
can be no repentance, and without repentance there is no re-
demption. This doubtful view of morals led them to all man-
ner of extremely grave sensual excesses, which over and over
again brought them into conflict with the authorities of both
Church and State.
The Skoptsy again are a sect that was, and is still, wide-
Page 131
Page 131
THE OCHRANA
III
spread. The name means ‘eunuchs.’ For certain sayings in the
Gospel according to St. John they believe that there is only
one interpretation: if a man is ever to join the company of
the elect he must maim himself. This cruel ceremony is car-
ried out at secret meetings held by night, and is followed by
dancing and revelry continued until those taking part are in a
condition of absolute frenzy. The amazing fact is that this
body, whose practices can only be described as religious in-
sanity, counts many adherents not merely among the peasants,
but among townspeople, the merchant class, and even officials.
The Molokany do not indulge in such sexual abnormalities,
but they evince a violent hostility to the State and all its
measures. Consequently, under the Tsardom, they were in
a state of permanent and stubborn conflict with the authorities,
striving continually, by every possible device, to escape their
control. Their views were closely related to the teaching of
Leo Tolstoi and exercised a strong influence upon him.
Finally, the Stranniky represent the out-and-out Anarchist
element among the Russian peasants. The Strannik (‘pilgrim’)
wanders restlessly and aimlessly through the country, care-
fully avoiding all contact with the representatives of the State
and the order it stands for. He possesses either no identification
papers or else false ones, he conceals his real name with the
utmost persistence, and thus succeeds in avoiding all social
obligations. At the beginning of the twentieth century there
were still thousands of such Dissenters wandering over the
Empire. In the villages there were people holding the same
views: their task was to conceal the migrants from the au-
thorities and to supply them secretly with food and lodging
in dark cellars. So the Stranniky were really in a way an
organized guild of tramps, the suppression of which, in the
interests of public order and security, was indeed highly neces-
sary, but as a rule, in practice, uncommonly difficult.
Page 132
Page 132
re
_ THE OCHRANA
The Government of the Tsar tried again and again, by in-
dulgence and toleration, to come to a peaceful accommoda-
tion with the various sects; and in part it succeeded. But those
fanatical sects that, on principle, denied not only Church, but
State as well, aiming at a Communistic world order and re-
garding all possession, nay, even the foundation of a family,
as sin, had of necessity to be kept within bounds by force.
Thus it came about that the struggle with these Dissenters
had to be included among the duties of the Russian Police,
and it was certainly not one of the easiest.
Page 133
Page 133
CHAPTER VIII
Spy-fever—Campaign against People with German Names—The Sus-
pected House-porter Witte—Kaiser Wilhelm’s Aides-de-camp in Peters-
burg!—Ineptitude of the Army Command—Senseless Severity, Equally
Senseless Leniency—Ochrana and War Espionage—Jealousy between
War Department and Police—Disorganization of the Transport System
—The Spy-fever and the Suchomlinov Case
ITH the outbreak of war came a wave of patriotic
enthusiasm; but along with this appeared a most un-
welcome phenomenon in the form of hysterical fear of spies.
This ‘spy-fever’ ran through the whole Russian population
like a plague.
Innocent people who had been settled in Russia for years
and years, bakers, butchers, shoemakers, and tailors, were all
of a sudden regarded as agents of Kaiser William; and the
suspicion extended even to many absolutely loyal Russians,
who merely had the misfortune to bear German surnames.
This morbid temper was stimulated by the sensational Press,
and led to the formation in the Duma of a special anti-Ger-
man group under the leadership of Chvostov, which soon be-
came very influential.
Many persons changed their name at that time, including
men in very distinguished positions, like V. K. Sabler, the
Chief Procurator of the Holy Synod, who received special
permission from the Emperor to assume the name of Dezya-
tovsk. People whose name was Kaiser were peculiarly hard
hit. Certainly there were individuals who showed themselves
superior or indifferent to all that mass of prejudice and who
did not change their names, preferring to prove their patriotism
rather by their courageous bearing in face of the enemy. One
of these was General Zimmermann, who afterward fought
bravely also in the White Army against the Bolsheviks.
II3
Page 134
Page 134
Ir4
-
THE OCHRAXKA
Even the lower class of people sought everywhere for Ger-
man spies. In the very first days of the War a man called at
my office in a state of great excitement, and reported that he
had heard from the neighbouring flat the noise of a type-
writer and the voices of the members of a “secret association” ;
he was sure he had discovered a nest of spies. Although from
the start I was disposed to be sceptical with regard to such tale-
bearing, my duty compelled me to have investigation made.
The result of the inquiry was to show that the “secret associa-
tion” consisted of some friends of the Chief Secretary to the
Senate, while, as for the typewriter, the over-zealous citizen
must have dreamt of it, for there was not one to be found
in any flat in the whole building.
Another time I received a letter warning me to keep an eye
upon a person having the well-known name of Witte. This
man was a house-porter on the Petersburg Side. When I had
looked through his papers and had, as a matter of precaution,
ordered observation to be kept for a time upon his comings
out and goings in, I came to the conclusion that this Witte
was a more trustworthy and patriotic man than his famous
namesake.
Unfortunately, there were also highly placed officials in the
State service who had fallen victims to this dread of spies,
and who, in consequence, committed many an act of injus-
tice against loyal Russian subjects. Among them must be in-
cluded my former superior, General Junkovsky, in other
respects an exceptionally honest and conscientious officer. Cer-
tain men of the most pronounced patriotic way of thinking
he had prosecuted as spies, for no other reason than that they
had been employed, many years before the War, as journalists
on the staff of a review published in Germany. At his in-
stigation these unfortunate persons were banished to the re-
Page 135
Page 135
THE OCHRANA
115
motest governments of the Empire, although there did not
exist a shred of evidence to prove their guilt.
As late as the beginning of 1917 an episode took place which
was quite characteristic in this respect. One day I was sum-
moned by the President of the Council of Ministers, Prince
N. D. Golitsin, who confided to me in very mysterious tones
that, according to information he had received, two aides-de-
camp of Kaiser Wilhelm were residing in Petersburg: they
had been seen, a few days before, walking along the Nevsky-
Prospekt, dressed as civilians, of course, and “with their coat-
collars turned up.” I answered that I was already acquainted
with that legend, and knew also the member of the Duma
who had told the Prime Minister the dreadful tale. Then I
named Colonel Engelhardt.
Count Golitsin, who till then had been very reserved and
apparently quite calm, looked at me, you might say, in terror
and utmost amazement, asking me how on earth I knew that.
I did voz tell him the sources of my information, but I man-
aged to convince him of the senselessness of the rumour, to
which even he had given credence.
In itself this whole incident would not have been of such
importance as to call for special reference. The story of the
German officers walking in the streets of the Russian capital
might have been told everywhere and after a few days for-
gotten, to be replaced by some other equally ill-founded tale.
But as a matter of fact the invention was quoted as a proof
of the slackness of the Government, and of its inability to
defend the Empire from the external foe. What kind of police
was that that allowed the most dangerous spies to move about
unmolested even in Petersburg? It was such idle gossip that
gave rise to the parrot-cry, soon in everybody’s mouth, “Things
cannot go on like this!”
During the War much disorder was created by the inde-
Page 136
Page 136
116
THE OCHRANA
pendent action of the military authorities, who had had con-
ferred upon them the right of removing, without formality of
any kind, from the war zone all persons whom they deemed to
be suspicious. Governors representing the Civil Power were
obliged, in matters of this kind, to submit to the instructions
of the military commanders and to carry out their orders. The
officers commanding the various army groups would send
whole bands of people away from the territories under their
jurisdiction. The exiles had to look out for a place of resi-
dence somewhere else; and an untenable state of things arose,
for hundreds of persons thus driven from home, being free
to choose, took refuge in towns where their presence was
essentially as dangerous as in the war zone itself.
For quite a long time the Army proceeded thus independ-
ently, the civil authorities having no say at all in this matter
of the expulsion of undesirable elements from the war zone.
At last an understanding was arrived at; and from that time
onward, whenever the Army Command decided upon a case,
the facts were sent at once to the Police Department, and
the Ministry of the Interior determined the locality where
the undesirables were to reside. The effect of this new regula-
tion was that the exiles were equally distributed, and were
absolutely prohibited from entering those governments wuere
there were important munition factories or similar industries
connected with the supply of the materials of war. That was
how the Ministry of the Interior did at last succeed, by peace-
ful means, in taking over again from the Army Command the
functions that properly belonged to it.
Hundreds of such cases of expulsion from the war zone
came under my personal observation; and many a time I
could not but shake my head over the primitive methods
adopted by the military authorities in making the necessary
Page 137
Page 137
THE OCHRANA
1L7
inquiries, and the summary fashion they had of dealing with
innocent persons, dubbing them simply spies.
The most irresponsible denunciations were listened to by
some military officials with a willing ear. There was a certain
two-faced rascal, a suspicious character if ever there was one,
who long before had been dismissed from the Secret Service
of the Ochrana. He got into touch with the Commandant of
the Military District of Dunaburg, whom the adventurer im-
posed upon with a fantastic tale of his own invention, stating
that he had come upon the tracks of a widespread conspiracy,
aiming at the blowing up of all the bridges and the munition-
dumps in the district. The Commandant fell blindly into the
snare, and set all the machinery in motion to make sure that
the structures and points alleged to be threatened were pro-
tected from criminal onslaughts. It was not until General
Kurlov was referred to—he recognized at once the name of
the notorious informer—that it came out that there was not
a word of truth in the whole story of conspiracy.
General Kurlov complained to me frequently of the amount
of trouble he was caused, in his capacity of Civil Governor
of the Baltic Provinces, by false reports of espionage and sa-
botage. The German-speaking population of the region was
continually being accused of co-operating with the enemy and
of supplying them with news of the movements of our troops.
Information was coming in all the time to the effect that the
tower of this or the other castle owned by some German Baltic
baron was being used for the purpose of transmitting signals
to the German army, or even to the German fleet. Wireless
stations were being scented out everywhere. In the end, Gen-
eral Kurlov found it necessary to adopt the plan of having
every estate in the country visited by commissions appointed
for the purpose, whose business it was to determine whether
any illegal work was going on.
Page 138
Page 138
118
- THE OCHRANA
An old savant who had had a small observatory erected on
his property near Riga suffered severely through the universal
spy-fever. Police, military, and naval authorities visited this
observatory not once but many times, and ransacked it from
top to bottom.
Kurlov laughed as he told me how an old Lett (Lithuanian)
had called upon him, and stated that he and others had seen
a German military aeroplane land in the estate of a German
baron. The proprietor had received the flying officers and en-
tertained them hospitably. Not satisfied with that, the Lithu-
anian peasant added that, on their departure, the German
airman had seized a cow and carried it off. It was with re-
ports of that kind that the highest authorities had to waste
their time in those days!
And it happened often that the Military Intelligence of-
ficers themselves perpetrated the most incredible blunders,
so that they were hardly distinguishable from the ignorant
country-people in their panic fear of spies. Thus there were
many cases in which the Staff insisted upon the expulsion of
certain people, and justified their demand by asserting that
these persons were far too well informed as to the positions
occupied by units of the enemy’s troops. Closer investigation
brought out the fact that these were our own spies, who had
already been the means of keeping us accurately posted in
everything connected with the movements of the German
army. The ill-founded dread lest such spies should be working
for the enemy as well induced the army commanders sum-
marily to interrupt the activities of these people, invaluable as
they were, and to banish them from the war zone. And no
doubt, in taking that action, they never stopped to reflect that,
after all, experienced spies could not be replaced as easily as
housemaids or clerks.
I was well acquainted with a Frenchman named J. R. Kurz,
Page 139
Page 139
THE OCHRAN A
119
who had been settled in Russia for a very long time. He
taught at the Petersburg Commercial School and was also a
correspondent for the Associated Press. Being a journalist, he
had been received by many Ministers and other persons of
high rank, and so, when the War came, it had not been a
very difficult matter for him to secure a post in the Intelli-
gence Service on the Southern Front. His knowledge made him
of great value to us, for, as his mother had been a Hungarian
by birth, he spoke Magyar fluently. After one year of service
it was recognized that the results of his work were really
splendid, and Kurz was decorated with the Cross of Vladimir
of the Fourth Class.
When he was spending his leave in Petersburg I met him
and he related to me some details of his experience. He had
penetrated quite a long way into Hungary to spy out the con-
ditions prevailing in the country and the strength of the Aus-
trian Army. Shortly afterward I was visited by Count Ignatiev,
his superior in the Service, who requested me to tell him
frankly what I thought of Kurz. I said all the good I could
of him, for I guessed the reason for the exceptional interest
that was being taken in him. I specially stressed the complete
absence of any kind of suspicion against him, pointing out
that, not even in the most confidential talks I had had with
him, had I observed anything peculiar about him.
How great therefore was my surprise when, a few days later,
Kurz was arrested by the order of the military authorities,
under the suspicion of espionage. At my request the case was
personally investigated by the Procurator attached to the Court
of Libau, A. A. Tshernyavsky, who declared to me, after mak-
ing a careful study of the documents, that there was not a parti-
cle of evidence that Kurz was guilty of treachery. The whole af-
fair ended in smoke, and Kurz was set free after five months’
detention. Of course, along with the Order he had received
Page 140
Page 140
120
THE OCHRAKA
for special merit, he was now wearing the indelible mark that
stamps the suspected spy.
In strange contrast to the senseless severity shown by the
Military in this case was their attitude on other occasions,
when energetic measures would have been appropriate. When
Russian troops had driven the Austrians out of a Galician vil-
lage a curious find was made in the garret of the cottage
where the enemy’s G.H.Q. had been quartered. In one of a
number of documents belonging to the Austrian Intelligence
Service was a list of five Jews, who were employed as perma-
nent agents receiving a fixed monthly allowance from the
Austrian Espionage authorities, to whom they had furnished
valuable reports concerning the positions of our troops. All
this was exactly stated in the Austrian papers, which even
included a detailed account of the sums paid to those five
Jews. They were arrested, but instead of bringing them at once
before a court-martial the Staff merely decided to expel them
from the war zone.
When the record of the proceedings reached me, I sub-
mitted a report to the Ministry of the Interior conveying my
view that this case was not one to be punished by administra-
tive expulsion, but should be dealt with by court-martial and
sentence of death. The Ministry did memorialize in this sense
the General Officer Commanding, Brussilov, but I do not know
how the affair ended, for the documents never came back to
me. I hope, however, that those five spies did not escape their
well-deserved fate.
In another case of espionage and communication with the
enemy the military authorities showed similar ineptitude. Near
the Riga front an officer’s wife was denounced. She was said
to be entertaining nightly officers on furlough, encouraging
them to drink heavily, with a view to getting them to betray
important points of strategy, which information she passed
Page 141
Page 141
THE OCHRANA
I2I
on to the enemy. The woman was a German by birth, and the
charges against her, which had come to the knowledge of the
Intelligence Department of our Army Command, sounded
very definite. This time again, to my amazement, the military
authorities did nothing more than recommend the woman for
deportation from the war zone.
The question arises why the Military Intelligence people,
as soon as this wasps’ nest of German espionage had been dis-
covered, did not have the sense to make the most of their
opportunity. It would surely have been easy enough to unravel
in a very short time the threads of this business, and to track
down all the accomplices. If, on the other hand, thorough in-
vestigation had revealed that there was no foundation what-
ever for the accusations made against that officer’s wife, it
would have been the duty of the authorities to bring the in-
formers in question to a sharp account for spreading such
slander. Instead of doing that, they decided upon half-meas-
ures, and simply suggested the deportation of the suspect.
The explanation of such vagaries may perhaps be found
in the haste with which the Intelligence Sections of the
Army were improvised. Almost of necessity they consisted
of inexperienced people, who were often quite unable to un-
derstand the supreme importance of the duties entrusted to
them. Many of the officers now responsible for the safety of
the troops had been, in time of peace, engineers or teachers
at the Military Academy, and had had no training of any
kind to prepare them for their new office.
All the more disastrous was the blunder committed by Gen-
eral Junkovsky, Under-Secretary for Home Affairs, when he
decided upon the suppression of the Ochrana agencies in the
Army. It was just at that time, once the War had come, that
the revolutionary agitators began to devote particular attention
to the Army, and to employ any and every means to work upon
Page 142
Page 142
$22
THE OCHRANA
the minds of the soldiers through their poisonous propaganda;
and the military authorities, lacking in the requisite experi-
ence, were
practically helpless in face of those sinister
machinations.
It was still more serious that most of the military com-
manders, one might almost say deliberately, closed their eyes
whenever it was a question of revolutionary intrigues among
their units. These officers simply refused to admit, either to
themselves or to anyone else, the barest possibility of there
being anything like indiscipline or political ferment among
the men under their command. So it came about that they
looked askance at any intervention of the Ochrana in Army
affairs, and strove
so persistently for the abolition of all
Ochrana establishments in the Army that they succeeded in
achieving their aim by having those offices closed. For General
Junkovsky made the great mistake of relying upon the as-
surances of the Staff that he could quite safely leave the neces-
sary political supervision of the troops to their own officers.
It was then that he issued the circular which categorically pro-
hibited the Ochrana from taking any interest whatever in
the internal concerns of the Army.
General Kurlov had prepared a scheme for opening booths
and refreshment huts in the neighbourhood of the barracks,
under the management of Ochrana agents, with a view to
exercising some measure of observation and check upon the
state of feeling among the soldiers. But that plan was not
carried out either.
From the papers that came into my office daily I could not
but notice, with growing sorrow and concern, what unfor-
tunate results were ensuing upon that unwise attitude of the
Ministry of the Interior. For the Ochrana agents, who in the
performance of their duty still came into contact with military
men of any rank, did not, of course, fail to report what they
Page 143
Page 143
THE OCHRANA
123
observed, so that, although the secret agencies in the Army
had ceased to exist, we continued all the same to receive
regular information as to the temper of the soldiers, and that
information became more and more disquieting.
More than once during the War the Ochrana had to deal
with affairs of espionage. On one occasion the activity of the
“black cabinet” led to the discovery of a nest of German spies
in South Russia. The correspondence of these people was con-
ducted in cipher, but we managed to find the key and conse-
quently to suppress the whole company.
In a similar way the Ochrana unearthed a group of Ger-
man spies in Ismail. All the written evidence in this case was
in cipher. But as every one of the members of this organization
that we arrested had the same calendar upon him, it was al-
most obvious that the calendar contained the solution to the
mystery. And, as a matter of fact, it did enable us to decode
the whole of the records of this group; and they proved to be
important.
It often happened that in espionage affairs the Ochrana and
the Military were following the same clue; and unfortunately
it was only rarely possible to achieve anything like useful co-
operation. As a rule, the military authorities showed a certain
jealousy of the Police, a circumstance which frequently made
the inquiries considerably more difficult and reduced the prob-
ability of success. One way in which the Ministry of War
showed this jealousy was to ignore systematically communica-
tions received from the Ochrana. Of reports derived from the
most reliable sources the Minister of War would declare that,
after thorough investigation, the information in question had
proved to be wrong. It is certainly not my desire to make the
General Staff alone responsible for various mistakes that were
made at that time, but justice demands that it should be plainly
stated that, with few exceptions, the military authorities fell
Page 144
Page 144
124
THE OCHRAKA
far short of what was expected of them in these police matters.
In making this observation I wish to rebut the baseless accusa-
tion, so often made against the Ministry of the Interior, of
having been remiss in the measures it adopted to counter the
revolutionary agitation and to ward off the general collapse.
I still remember the conversations I had with General P. K.
Solovyoy, then Chief of the North-western Railways Police.
He complained to me of the frequency with which the Army
Staff insisted upon the immediate dispatch of trains with war
stores, pointing out that it was through the execution of those
orders that the so-called blocks in the railway traffic arose.
Repeatedly Solovyov had to go in person to some important
junction or other in order to clear away the jam: slow trains
had to be kept waiting, so that trains carrying munitions and
other goods for the Army might get through faster. A particular
reason for complaint was that wagons sent off to Warsaw
never came back to the points of departure, which led to in-
creasing lack of rolling-stock at these stations, and rendered
it difficult to make up new trains. What the military authori-
ties were doing in Warsaw was to unload the trains, shunt
them into sidings in order to clear the main line, and then
to leave them to stand there to all eternity.
“All order is upset, and it can hardly be restored again,”
declared General Solovyov. “And this has come about mainly,
because those in command of the Army are entirely unac-
quainted with the rules and the technique of the railway serv-
ice. Then the task falls to me, a police official, to sort out these
blocks; I have continually to act as an intermediary, endeavour-
ing to reconcile the demands of the military with those of the
railway management. In cases of urgent need for the Army,
even food trains have to be kept waiting for days.”
There, perhaps, we have the first cause of the rapidly in-
creasing dearth of necessities, the consequence of which, in its
Page 145
Page 145
THE OCHRANA
125
turn, was the universal economic collapse. Of course the traders
were anxious to exploit the exceptional conditions for their
own advantage, and, once prices had risen, did not want to
bring them down again. Officials and workmen, on the other
hand, basing their claims upon the increased cost of living,
were continually crying for higher salaries or wages.
When I was still Assistant Chief of Police I received a call,
on one occasion, from the President of the Moscow Associa-
tion of Merchants and Manufacturers, G. P. Guyon, a shrewd,
staid, Russified Frenchman, whom I had never met before.
In great detail and with much ability he expounded the view
that was generally prevalent, that the irregularity in the goods
and passenger trafic might lead to dangerous excitement
among the people, and that timely steps should be taken to
meet such an emergency. One example he quoted was this:
important raw materials intended for Moscow, and coming
from towns in the north, were kept lying for weeks in the
stations for want of trucks to take them, while there were
standing in the same stations empty trucks, which, however,
were reserved for the Ministry of War and were not allowed
to be used. According to Guyon the failure to secure delivery
of raw materials was reducing the productivity in the factories,
thus causing unrest and discontent among the workmen, which
provided a favourable soil for the undesirable agitation of the
Socialists. Guyon concluded his speech by affirming that, as
representative and head of the Association, he had at heart
only the commercial interests of the manufacturers, and that
these were making it their object to keep down the number
of dismissals. But he said he was afraid that, in the very near
future, all their efforts would be absolutely fruitless, for none
of the attempts made to convince the General Staff of the
necessity for introducing some kind of regularity in the train
Page 146
Page 146
126
THE OCHRANA
service and an orderly distribution of railway wagons had so
far met with any success.
The exceptionally serious points that arose from my con-
versation with Guyon I passed on to my Chief, Briand de
Saint-Hypolite, with the request that he should submit them
to the Under-Secretary, W. O. Junkovsky. But the steps that
were taken were quite inadequate to secure any result what-
ever, for the Army, in the person of the all-powerful General
Yanushkyevitsh, showed absolutely no consideration for the
plight of the interior of the country. In the consciousness of
his power, Yanushkyevitsh gave orders to the men at the
head of the War Department as if the general condition of
things within the State was a matter of complete indifference.
The universal spy-fever led in two cases to results which,
even with respect to their influence upon the repute of the
Russian Army, were extremely grave. I have in my mind
the trials of Colonel Myassoyedov and of Suchomlinovy, the
Minister of War.
It was a Member of the Duma, Gutshkov, about whose per-
sonality I shall have something to say later, that raised the hue
and cry against Colonel Myassoyedov, by asserting that he
possessed overwhelming proofs that Myassoyedov had com-
mitted high treason. Inspired by Gutshkov, the Evening Times
began its ‘revelations’ about Myassoyedoy, and demanded that
legal proceedings should be instituted against this officer. It
was characteristic of the spiritual corruption of the so-called
“cultured circles” in Russia that this indictment, brought by a
disreputable newspaper, should have found at once a willing
public and have been generally believed. If anyone still asked
sceptically whether all that was really true, he would generally
receive the reply, spoken with conviction, “It must be true
when it is in the papers!”
Very soon, by order of the Higher Command, Myasso-
Page 147
Page 147
THE OCHRANA
127
yedov’s case was taken up by a military court of inquiry; but
the Yellow Press was now not to be satisfied with that, and
was already demanding roundly the condemnation of the
alleged traitor. At G.H.Q. they happened to attribute far too
much importance to the Petersburg press and, generally speak-
ing, to whatever took place in the Capital. So it came about
that politics turned the scales in circles that ought to have
been attending exclusively to questions of strategy. Colonel
Myassoyedov was first of all acquitted by the court-martial.
Thereupon, however, at the express command of the Grand
Duke Nicholai Nicholayevitsh a second trial was held, and it
ended with a sentence of death for the accused. The sentence
was executed shortly after it was pronounced. I am informed
that Myassoyedov, in despair, tried to commit suicide by open-
ing an artery with a fragment of the metal frame of his eye-
glasses. This attempt was, however, discovered in time, and
from that moment till his execution the unhappy man was
in close company with a warder.
In the official records the condemnation of Myassoyedov
is justified by the statement that the Colonel had been con-
victed of espionage and pillage. The second accusation was
based upon the fact that, when he was on the East Prussian
front, he had sent to some near relative a lamp and a pic-
ture. But the prosecution had been quite unable to prove that
Myassoyedov had acquired the articles mentioned by pillage
and not by legitimate purchase. As for the other count, espio-
nage, the officer was alleged to have received ten thousand rou-
bles from the enemy as the price of his treachery, but there
was no clue whatever as to the whereabouts of the money.
Indeed, neither in the possession of Myassoyedoy, nor in that
of his wife, nor in that of his relatives, could they discover
any sums of money worth mentioning.
After the Revolution, Myassoyedov’s case was reopened, and
Page 148
Page 148
128
_
THE OCHRANA
everybody involved at the time in this affair was acquitted.
Of course the unfortunate Colonel had been executed long be-
fore then, so that he could not take advantage of this rectifica-
tion of the miscarriage of justice.
Almost at the same time as the campaign against Myasso-
yedoy, the outcry against the Minister of War, Suchomlinoy,
was raised. This also was the work of Gutshkov and his
acolytes. This time it was a definite act of vengeance originat-
ing with General Polivanov, Gutshkov’s most intimate friend.
Polivanov occupied the office of Assistant to the Minister of
War (Under-Secretary), and had for some time been on very
good terms with the Minister, until he began to throw in his
lot with the Duma. Suchomlinov did not like this and sought
to force him more and more into the background. It was for
that that Polivanov, an ambitious man, was now avenging
himself in this barbarous manner.
Suchomlinov was ‘accused of treason. What amount of truth
there was in the evidence adduced I had excellent and direct
means of judging. In those days I was Assistant Chief of the
Police Department, and was closely associated with the mem-
bers of the Court that had to try the Minister. Now, the Ex-
amining Magistrate, Kotshubinsky, showed me one day in
triumph a document which he characterized as a “convincing
proof” of guilt. It was a letter posted in Carlsbad and addressed
to the wife of the War Minister by a merchant, named Alt-
schiller, belonging to Kiev. The letter conveyed the information
that it was raining in Carlsbad, that the roads were bad, and
that, consequently, long walks were out of the question. When
I asked the magistrate in amazement, how such a letter could
possibly serve to prove Suchomlinoy’s guilt, he said that it
was quite certain that the words contained a hidden meaning:
the reference to the rain and bad roads really covered some-
thing different. In reply to my inquiry as to the mysterious
Page 149
Page 149
THE OCHRANA
129
significance of the letter he waved his hand as if to suggest
that my question was rather silly, for the hidden sense was
there all right, but answered, “The devil knows what the
man meant!”
It was upon such evidence that the monstrous charge was
built up, that Suchomlinoy, the Imperial War Minister, had
been guilty of treasonable practices in order to assist the enemy!
And meanwhile, the extraordinarily valuable services rendered
by him in the reorganization of the Army were forgotten. It
had been due to his work that the mobilization was carried
out with such astonishing rapidity: he had raised to a high
level the efficiency of the Remount Department in the cavalry;
he had brought about the re-arming of the Artillery; he had
organized the Military Air Service; he had created the Motor
Service, which was so important in the War; he had funda-
mentally reformed the internal administration of War Office
business.
The Chief Public Prosecutor, V. P. Nossovitsh, who con-
ducted the case against Suchomlinov throughout the whole
trial, failed to produce the slightest evidence to show what
had become of the monies which the Minister must have re-
ceived for his treachery; yet these sums of money must have
been large. Despite this obviously serious lacuna in the struc-
ture of the proof led against Suchomlinov—and it was shaky
enough anyway—he was condemned, certainly, as I have al-
ready indicated, a victim of faction and intrigue. It is shameful
enough that the aged General had to wait for his release from
severe imprisonment till the coming of the Bolshevik Govern-
ment. After the general amnesty granted by the Soviets had
liberated him from prison, Suchomlinoy ended his life in dire
poverty. If he had really been a traitor and had received large
sums of money from the Germans, things would probably have
been otherwise.
Page 150
Page 150
130
THE OCHRANA
After thinking these matters over for many years I am to-
day still firmly convinced that neither Colonel Myassoyedov
nor General Suchomlinov ever committed criminal actions.
They were perhaps thoughtless and imprudent, but that they
were guilty of deliberate treachery I find as difficult to believe
as ever. Even among Russian refugees I have often been told
that I was wrong in my opinion; that it was absolutely im-
possible to imagine what incredible sums the Germans had
spent during the War on bribery; that positive proofs were
to be found in the archives of the German Staff.
But even this argument does not convince me, for I know
from my long years of experience that often amounts of money
were entered as having been paid to certain individuals with-
out those persons having actually received them. That hap-
pened, for example, in a case of espionage which my superior,
General Junkovsky, handed over to be dealt with by me per-
sonally. As it is typical of the situation I have in mind, I shall
give a brief account of it.
One day we received from our Foreign Agency a long
telegram, in which Krassilnikov, who was in charge of our
service abroad, communicated a very interesting piece of news:
the Germans had approached a political refugee with the
proposal that he should assist them in carrying out certain
schemes they had formed for doing deliberate damage in
Russia. Unfortunately, the Germans had applied to the wrong
man, for this refugee was one of our secret agents, and im-
mediately got into touch with the Foreign Department of the
Ochrana. For some considerable time I had heard nothing more
of this business when, one day, that refugee appeared in person
in my office. He described in detail the enemy’s plans and
then took from his pocket thirteen thousand roubles in bank-
notes. The money he handed over to me, saying that it was the
amount the Germans had paid him to meet travelling expenses.
Page 151
Page 151
GENERAL SUCHOMLINoY, MINISTER OF WaR IN 1914
Page 152
Page 152
RASPUTIN
cee
Fi
Page 153
Page 153
THE OCHRANKA
131
They had promised him a much larger sum if he managed to
blow up a bridge, a railway-line, or a factory. The agent, you
see, had accepted the money, but, being the loyal official that
he was he passed it over, according to instructions. I am con-
vinced that, in the papers of the German Intelligence Service,
he is noted as having received that bribe, so that in the eyes
of people who do not know the real facts of the case he must
seem very seriously compromised.
Page 154
Page 154
CHAPTER IX
Rasputin—His Behaviour in Society—His Debauchery—The ‘Healing’
of the Heir to the Throne—Rasputin’s Political Influence and its Limita-
tions—Petitioners who appealed to Rasputin—His Relations with the
Tsar and the Tsarina
F THE countless lies that have become current about the
last years of the Russian Tsardom the majority are as-
sociated with the name of Rasputin. Therefore I feel that I
am under an obligation to treat this subject at some length,
and, making use of the information and the notes that are
at my disposal, to sketch a truer picture of that much reviled
person and of his significance in Russian politics.
The Rasputin Affair bears no little resemblance to the fa-
mous Necklace Affair that, in a sense, started the French Revo-
lution. In France the people who were preparing to bring
about the Revolution found in that scandal the means to lower
the prestige of the Royal House and thereby to undermine the
Throne. The men of the Russian Revolution: made use in a
similar fashion and for similar ends of the famous peasant
monk. But the saddest thing about this episode is that even
members of the Imperial family took part in the calumny
directed against the Tsar and the Tsarina; this feature distin-
guishes the Russian catastrophe from the fall of the Bourbons.
Who was Rasputin? A simple, illiterate, Russian peasant,
but, at the same time, one endowed with great natural sagacity.
He came from the little village of Pokrovskoye on the Tura—
that is, from the nearest part of Western Siberia. His father was
a carter there, and he himself had followed this calling until,
like so many Siberian peasants, he had been seized with a cer-
tain religious ecstasy, and had left his home to wander all over
Russia as a pilgrim.
132
Page 155
Page 155
THE OCHRAKNA
133
After he had visited Mount Athos, his path brought him
at last to Petersburg, where he attracted the interest of several
dignitaries of the Church by his sensible and edifying addresses
on religious matters. By their intermediary he made the ac-
quaintance of the Grand Duke Nikolai Nikolayevitsh, whose
wife introduced him to the Tsarina.
From that time onward he frequented various circles in the
highest ranks of society in the capital, and was often made too
much of. But he was under no delusion as to his own abilities:
he was fully aware that he was not intellectually equal to the
part that was now being thrust upon him. His complete want
of education prevented him from grasping even the main lines,
much less the details, of things he was expected to accomplish
by his influence. However, he had enough natural intelligence
to be able, in many things, to form a sound judgment. Wher-
ever he might be, he used to observe attentively all that was
said and done; and from what he had perceived with his
innate peasant wit he was often able to make very intelligent
deductions. Hardly ever did he put questions which would
have revealed his lack of culture, and this circumstance it was
that led people so generally to overestimate his knowledge.
Many a time I had the opportunity of meeting Rasputin
and of conversing with him about a great variety of topics. On
these occasions I was struck over and over again by the care
and patience with which he sought to grasp the essentials of
the matter of discourse; every speaker he listened to with
an attention that was almost too strained, in his obvious en-
deavour not to lose the thread of the discussion. It was only
now and then that he himself made a remark, and when he
did it was, as a rule, very much to the point. More than once
I heard him break in upon some highfalutin ravings with a
matter-of-fact interjection that had the effect of bringing the
babbler down from his airy talk to sober reality.
Page 156
Page 156
134
THE OCHRANA
His political views, so far as he possessed any at all, were
simple enough. He was nothing more than a plain Russian
patriot and a genuine Monarchist, but not in the sense given
to that word to-day: he was neither a Left, nor a Right, nor
a Constitutional Monarchist, for Monarchy meant for him
rather a kind of religion. Russia without a Tsar was something
he could not conceive of. The subtleties of so-called higher
politics went far beyond his horizon, and he was quite unable
to comprehend what the various parties, or the groups in the
Duma, or the newspapers were ultimately aiming at. His
fundamental principle in politics consisted simply in the paci-
fication, as far as that was possible, of the enemies of the Tsar.
In this sense he once explained to me with great ardour his
view, that the Ministers should devote all their energy to the
pacification of all internal foes. He said he was sorry for the
latter, for they knew not what they did; all that was needed
was to show them the error of their ways, and at once all dis-
order would come to an end.
However artless he was in politics, he took a very great
interest in all that appeared to him to be of practical im-
portance and value for the people. Even in Petersburg draw-
ing-rooms he still remained enough of a peasant to be able to
sympathize with the peasants and to understand their needs.
Thus in the months preceding his death he was very ac-
tively occupied with the problem of the food-supply, which
was becoming daily more and more urgent. As I have already
indicated, various circumstances had created certain difficulties
in the provisioning of the country, and Rasputin considered
it to be one of the most important duties of the Government
to provide remedial measures. His opinions on this point he
did not, like so many of the politicians, dress in a cloud of
beautiful phrases, but said simply, “You must feed the peo-
ple; then they'll be quiet.” He was right when he declared
Page 157
Page 157
THE OCHRANA
135
that the task of victualling the country should be entrusted
to the Minister who was in the best position to distribute the
food supplies. And that was the Minister of the Interior.
Before I had become personally acquainted with Rasputin,
I had been told repeatedly of his boastfulness. People were
particularly indignant because of the way he bragged, in and
out of season, of his intimate relations with the Imperial
family. I had heard a lot of talk, too, about the reputed hyp-
notic power of his eyes; indeed, the wildest legends were cur-
tent on this subject. Consequently, when I did meet him, my
chief object was to test the truthfulness of those statements.
So I would sit right opposite him whenever the thing was
practicable, and try to impress upon my mind every one of his
gestures, every tiniest change in the play of his features, every
word he uttered. What I saw did not correspond at all to the
reports that were in circulation. There was not the least sign
of self-satisfaction about him. The impression I received was
rather, that he was fully aware of his inferiority in the matter
of education to those around him. If he did occasionally make
some allusion to the Tsar or the Tsarina, his utterance was
unusually respectful in tone and wording, and was spoken in
an awkward, halting manner. Never did I hear him boast
of his intercourse with the Imperial family; nor did I on any
occasion see him the worse for liquor. As often as he spoke
of the Ministers, it was merely to stress his opinion that they
must assist the Tsar with all their powers in this difficult task
of ruling the country.
In spite of all that, I know, of course, very well—better per-
haps than most other people—that there was a basis of truth
for the rumours concerning the bumptious mode of expression
he sometimes adopted in gay society. After all, was I not in a
position to look at any time into the Police records bearing
upon this matter? In this connexion, however, it should be
Page 158
Page 158
46
|
THE OCHRANA
considered that no one in an elevated condition is quite master
of his tongue, and that his enemies often laid themselves out
to get him a little fuddled, when they would ask him provoca-
tive questions, to which he did return many a thoughtless
answer.
Certainly Rasputin had a weakness for wine and women,
but it was not his peasant breeding that had developed such
inclinations in him. Before he enjoyed the entrée to Peters-
burg society he was not guilty of such excesses, so far as in-
quiries have shown; rather was it the new and sophisticated
environment of town-dwellers that deliberately set about cor-
rupting and debauching him in order thereby to discredit the
Tsar and his consort. Once those people had succeeded in
besmirching Rasputin’s name, then they wove their stories
round it, told of his influence in the appointment of the high-
est officials, of his secret dealings with the Germans, and of
his efforts to bring about the conclusion of a separate peace;
and it was all designed to tarnish the glory of the Imperial
House.
Rasputin did not thrust himself into the foreground of the
political arena; others pushed him into that position, people
whose object it was to shake the foundations of the Russian
Throne and Empire. He himself never quite understood what
was going on. If he said that with his death Russia too would
perish, he failed to recognize that he was merely a puppet in
the hands of those vile schemers.
These harbingers of the Revolution had to make an idol
of Rasputin in order to realize their satanic projects. So then
they spread abroad the most absurd rumours to the effect that
it was only through the intermediary of this Siberian peasant
that it was possible to attain to office and dignity. The more
soiled Rasputin’s name became and the more his influence
was exaggerated, the easier was it to compromise the bright
Page 159
Page 159
THE Son oF Nicuoras II
Page 160
Page 160
PLAYING-CARD CONFISCATED
BY THE OCHRANA
Tsar above—Rasputin helow
Page 161
Page 161
THE OCHRANA
137
figure of the Tsarina, by this means to turn the Russian people
into slaves of the Internationale and to transform the once
mighty and glorious Empire into a wilderness.
No doubt Rasputin was commanded to appear now and
then before the Empress, who, with the cordiality so becom-
ing in Her Majesty and perhaps, too, from a certain inclination
toward mysticism, received him with a considerable measure
of kindliness. She firmly believed that he would never tell
her what was not true, and the accident that his visits often
coincided with an improvement in the health of the Heir to
the Throne strengthened still more the friendship she felt to-
ward him. That the alleged healing of the Tsaryevitsh by
Rasputin rested entirely upon accidental coincidence is my firm
and immovable conviction. I never believed for one moment
that Rasputin possessed hypnotic powers, or was able to work
miraculous cures. Chance willed it that once or twice after
Rasputin had visited the sick-room of the Tsaryevitsh the pa-
tient seemed to be better, and perhaps the soothing influence
that certainly emanated from the person of that healthy peasant
may have played some obscure part in bringing about such
improvement.
Nor did I believe that the Tsarina regarded Rasputin as a
worker of miracles. He did often betray a sincere and honest
interest in the fate of the Tsaryevitsh, and that is sufficient to
provide an adequate explanation of the benevolent attitude of
the Empress toward him. She was far too noble-minded to hurt
the feelings of that good man, who was so absolutely devoted
to her, by yielding to vulgar and offensive gossip.
It may even have happened that the Emperor did on an
occasion discuss Government affairs with his consort in the
presence of Rasputin, and that the sovereigns did then ask
what Rasputin’s views were. But it is perfectly foolish and
altogether too naive to assume that the Tsar, in coming to a
Page 162
Page 162
138
THE OCHRANA
decision, allowed himself to be influenced in any way by the
haphazard remarks of a mere peasant. In those circumstances
it was doubly wrong when even various persons in Govern-
ment circles and high-placed officials began to take Rasputin’s
‘influence’ into account, instead of doing what would have
been much more sensible and more in keeping with the actual
situation—that is, simply ignoring Rasputin. Really, how ab-
surd was the belief that the wise and lawful recommendation
of a Minister required the support of a peasant before it had
any likelihood of being approved by the Tsar!
However, the idle chatter of society proved more powerful
than rational consideration. So it came about that, within a
short time, people throughout Russia believed in the omnip-
otence of Rasputin, and spoke of it in drawing-rooms and
restaurants,
as well as in barracks, kitchens, and servants’
quarters, as of a matter of fact that had been proved. The
revolutionaries naturally used this to work up the population
against a system in which, as they affirmed, Russia was being
ruled by a dirty monk.
In reality all that was far removed from the truth. If Ras-
putin played any part at all in politics at the Court, it can
have been only an extremely limited one, and not in the least
to be compared with that performed by any high official. His
intelligence and insight enabled him sometimes to form a tol-
erably shrewd judgment with regard to persons he had once
met. This too was known to the Tsarina, and therefore she
would ask him sometimes what he thought of this or that
candidate for some high Government post. But from such
entirely harmless inquiries to the reputed appointment of
Ministers by Rasputin is a very long step, and this step the
Tsar and the Tsarina quite certainly never took.
It may seem at first that this assertion of mine is in con-
flict with the known fact that once or twice Rasputin used
Page 163
Page 163
THE OCHRANA
139
the telegraph to propose certain candidates to the Empress for
important Government appointments. These telegrams are gen-
erally regarded as incontrovertible proofs that Rasputin did
exercise very real influence at Court. I, however, maintain
that the existence of these telegrams proves nothing more than
a regrettable lack of tact on the part of Rasputin. Whether
these recommendations met with any success is a very dif-
ferent question. Only if this had been the case, would anyone
have had a right to speak of his ‘influence.’ It appears, on
the other hand, that in many cases Rasputin’s advocacy was
of no avail. Once or twice it did happen, it must be admitted,
that the candidates favoured by him were really appointed;
but in these cases the decisions had been made long before,
on quite other grounds, and would have been carried out with-
out Rasputin’s having stirred a finger. These cases were, in-
deed, just as truly accidental as the alleged relief to the Tsarye-
vitsh effected by the monk.
In one single connexion Rasputin was able to render real
service to petitioners who appealed to him; that was when it
was a question of granting a reprieve to condemned prisoners.
But here again I should like to note a certain important ob-
servation which I often had occasion to make in the course
of my service. It was the Emperor’s practice to mark all re-
ports read by him with a blue pencil, to signify that the matter
was settled; but I never saw a death sentence to which this
mark had been affixed. The conclusion to be drawn from that
is that the Tsar systematically never read death sentences,
but rather left the Minister of Justice to deal with them. That
being so, even when it was a question of granting such an
amnesty, it was not with the Tsar that Rasputin’s influence
can have been effective.
As to Rasputin’s life and conduct I was very accurately in-
formed, for the Chief of the Petersburg Ochrana used to call
Page 164
Page 164
140
THE OCHRANA
upon me every morning with a report, in which was a de-
tailed list of all persons who had appeared at Rasputin’s quar-
ters the day before and of all the people that he had visited.
It was often really funny to see who the petitioners were that
did resort to the magician. He faced them all with the equa-
nimity of a professional soothsayer or fortune-teller, bent only
on satisfying his customers. When anyone was detailing to
him all the particulars of some complicated case he would
listen to the tale very quietly, and then generally ask only one
question: Which Minister did the business concern? There-
upon, without saying a word, he would hand the suppliant a
note consisting of a phrase or two and addressed to some
exalted personage in the Government. His letters, as a rule,
would run:
My bDEAR coop Sir,
Help if you can.
GrisHA RasPuTIN.
Provided with such recommendations, people from the
provinces would generally seek an audience with the Minister
in question, firmly convinced that their request would be ful-
filled at once. How great was their amazement when, despite
the intervention of the almighty monk, they received a refusal!
A petition which in itself was justifiable and which, after
adequate examination of the facts, proved to be practicable,
would naturally be dealt with in a sense pleasing to the ap-
plicant, and it would be a matter of indifference whether he
possessed an introduction from Rasputin or not. And, vice
versa, in spite of the monk’s intermediary, unjustifiable wishes
or complaints would not be considered by any of the Depart-
ments. And yet people imagined that it all depended on that
bit of paper with a few words in Rasputin’s hand. It is true
that people have asserted over and over again that he did
successfully exercise his patronage in doubtful affairs, but I
Page 165
Page 165
THE OCHRANA
r4t
have never believed this, and although I have frequently in-
vestigated such rumours I never managed to convince myself
of their truth. I am therefore, in this matter too, still of the
opinion that, as with so many of the assertions about Rasputin,
such reports were idle gossip.
Almost one-half of the visitors who called on Rasputin con-
sisted of poor people who hoped to get some material assist-
ance from him. Their expectations of this kind were not dis-
appointed, for Rasputin never once refused to help anyone
with money. Whenever a well-to-do caller left behind him a
sum of money Rasputin distributed it among the next poor
petitioners who were waiting, so that of all such monies he
never kept a rouble for himself.
Very often it happened, too, that simple country-people
would call on him for no other reason than that they were
impelled by curiosity, and wanted very much to talk with
the man who, though an ordinary peasant, had found access
to the Court. Rasputin generally received such visitors and
made them doubly welcome, talking with them at length and
with much sympathy about their affairs, and thinking nothing
of keeping much more fashionable people waiting. And it was
especially such visitors from the country who were sure to go
away with a present.
The things I am here setting down are not, as some may
be tempted to think, sentimental inventions of my own; they
are supported by the testimony of Ochrana agents, who for
years acted as servants in Rasputin’s home and consequently
knew his daily life to the last detail. Those officials noted re-
peatedly too, with what hesitation Rasputin always got ready
for his journeys to Tsarskoye Syelo; he was frankly nervous
whenever he was summoned there by Mme. Vyrubova. The
agents testify that whenever he knew he was about to have
to meet the Tsarina he became extraordinarily excitable and
Page 166
Page 166
142
THE OCHRANA
ill at ease. It is therefore utterly false when people talk, as
they do continually, of Rasputin’s cynical self-assurance in
his intercourse with the Imperial family.
The means he had at his disposal were quite exactly de-
termined. From the Tsarina’s private purse he received an
annual allowance of ten thousand roubles. And during the
time I was at the head of the Police Department the Minister
of the Interior, Protopopov, once ordered a thousand roubles
to be paid to him. Larger sums than this he never received
from the Ministry of the Interior.
I have already spoken of his fondness for wine and women.
But it should be observed that he was never a soaker in the
proper sense of the word. As a typical peasant he probably
drank on occasion more than was good for him, especially
when he was invited to some carousal at which they would
encourage him to immoderate indulgence. But I know beyond
a doubt that on the following morning he would nearly al-
ways reproach himself bitterly when he became aware that
he had allowed his tongue to wag too freely while he had been
in a state of intoxication. This was possibly one of the reasons
why he fell into such a peculiar state of mind whenever he
was called upon to appear in Tsarskoye Syelo. He was afraid
that, in the interval since his last visit, reports about his ex-
cesses might have reached the Emperor’s ears and that he ran
the risk of being severely reprimanded. For it did indeed hap-
pen several times that the Tsar remonstrated with him in no
uncertain terms about the error of his ways, which never failed
to cause Rasputin deep remorse. Unfortunately this repentance
was not of very long duration, and he had not the necessary
will-power to resist the next temptation offered him to indulge
in fresh orgies.
Page 167
Page 167
CHAPTER X
The Tibetan Doctor Badmayev—The Monarchist as a Protégé of Bol-
shevik Seamen—My First Meeting with Rasputin—Rasputin and the
Duma—Belyetsky’s Intrigues—Rasputin on his Relations with the Tsar
—Fall of General Junkovsky—Badmayev’s Fruitless Warning
FRIEND of Rasputin was Peter Alexandrovitsh Bad-
mayev, and, like Rasputin, he was often made the sub-
ject of the foulest calumnies. I should therefore, at this point,
like to say something of that remarkable man, unique in his
way, whom I knew very well.
Badmayev came from Mongolia. He had acquired the secret
lore of the Tibetans in the use of medicinal herbs, and then,
at the time of the Russo-Turkish War, he had become an Army
doctor. He was a man of strong will-power and endowed with
a great love of righteousness.
With a view to improving the lot of the East Siberian popu-
lation he undertook to act as leader of one or two deputations,
and to appeal directly to the Imperial Court. On these oc-
casions he attracted the attention of Tsar Alexander III, who,
at his request, expressly authorized him to practise his knowl-
edge of the Tibetan healing art. On subsequent occasions, too,
Badmayev was received in audience by the Emperor, when he
spoke on behalf of his Siberian fellow-countrymen. But he was
never really in close contact with actual court circles, and as a
convinced and loyal Monarchist he would never have dreamed
of exploiting in any illegal way his connexion with the Tsar
and the governing class.
Nevertheless, shameless journalists have caused him to be
suspected of participation in all manner of mysterious court
intrigues. They even affirmed that, in collusion with Rasputin,
143
Page 168
Page 168
I44
THE OCHRANA
he had induced the Emperor to take Tibetan infusions of
herbs that had paralysed the ruler’s mental powers.
I still remember very well a dinner at my house at which
Kurlov and Badmayev were present. We learned from the
newspaper that the Heir to the Throne was again suffering
from an attack of internal hemorrhage, and the news had
an extraordinarily depressing influence on Badmayev;
his pre-
vious talkativeness and his cheerful mood vanished, so to speak,
at a stroke. When we had retired to my private study, Bad-
mayev turned to Kurlov and myself, begging us to obtain for
him permission to treat the young prince with Tibetan rem-
edies; he said he was able by the means at his command to
cure completely the Tsaryevitsh’s trouble, while European
doctors were helpless in dealing with it. After discussing the
matter for some time, we decided to telegraph to General
V. A. Dyedyulin, then Court-Marshal, and I myself composed
the message. Two days later we received a reply from Dye-
dyulin by letter, intimating that Fyodoroy, the Physician-in-
Ordinary, and the other medical men in attendance had
expressed their disapproval of Badmayev’s being called in, and
that the sovereigns had finally declared their agreement with
that refusal. This incident is surely the clearest proof of the
essential inaccuracy of the statements made about Badmayev’s
professional activities at court.
What so attracted me to Badmayev was my conviction that
his medical powers were exceptional, as well as the esteem
I felt for his Monarchist opinions and his extraordinarily wide
culture. I have been told that he studied the Orthodox re-
ligion for twenty years before he resolved to go over to it.
Desire for revenge was entirely foreign to his nature. His con-
stant effort was to help those in distress to the utmost of his
powers. To the multitudes of people who appealed to him
Page 169
Page 169
GENERAL
Kurtoy,
ComMMANDER
THE OF
GENDARMERIE,
WITH
CONTROLLER DyeEpyuLin,
THE OF
IMPERIAL
HovusEHOLD,
AND
GERARDI,
THE
CHIEF
OF
THE
PoLice Palace
Page 170
Page 170
Hho ARE
ice
4h:
=
=
?
Tocydapemocnntiia npecmynaaiig 7008 ~
ey
denver (epee
ets ibe) {OOM GQ eg cprece o.
MPUMBTDbI:
Meta 3/
Pocrs Z
aput.7 wep.
Jn
fy paar
Pasa
nica Ate prda—
BaxewOapibl ———
hpoBu JEL foeder—
3yobl
Fis
Wox6opor0nn Beye“
Veobbin pete la rept cior
ia Cpr
aed
[lol GB geet pee 4 a
aad wlegiae bet
oe
8
Ge—
Se
ae uae Pe aegeeecO Roof ré (oe oti *
Se
Ghee Leflburiem se, hangpor 7
Exirep ANARCHIsST’s PRISON CARD
The woman
is the daughter of a priest.
Age, height, face, eyes, hair, brows,
nose, mouth,
teeth, chin are indicated; and as a special mark are mentioned
two brown birthmarks rather
less in size than
a pea and situated two centi-
metres
from
the middle
of the
first
segment
of the
spinal column,
on
the
left
of it
Page 171
Page 171
THE OCHRANA
145
for assistance he unfailingly presented gifts of money, which
were sometimes considerable in amount.
The fate of Badmayev after the Revolution was interesting
and characteristic too. When he was making an attempt to
find his way to Finland he was arrested by Revolutionary
seamen and kept for some time in prison. While there he made
no effort to conceal from his guards his frank opinion that
the deposition of the Tsar had been an act of folly. The sailors,
generally so uncompromising, listened in silence to what Bad-
mayev had to say, finding nothing to reply. Before long he
was released from confinement and sent back to Petersburg,
where he resumed his medical practice. Hundreds of patients
flocked to him again, and in conversation with them he ex-
pressed openly his Monarchist views, letting them know that
he thought Russia had fallen into the hands of unworthy men
who would bring it to ruin.
Later, when the Bolsheviks were already in power, an agent
of the Tsheka (literally Extraordinary Commission, actually
Secret Police) called on Badmayev as a patient, and set about
involving him in a political discussion. It was no difficult task,
for Badmayev was neither to hold nor to bind when it was a
matter of comparison between the old and the new régimes; so
he started off at once in violent abuse of the Communist sys-
tem. The agent visited the doctor two or three times after
that, and finally the Tsheka had Badmayev’s house searched.
They slit the sofa, ripped up all stuffed articles of furniture,
and sought in every hole and corner for the supposed secret
correspondence between Badmayev and the Tsarina. As such
correspondence had never existed, all the attempts of the Bol-
shevik agents to find it naturally remained fruitless. Never-
theless Badmayev was arrested and lodged in the Militia
Building.
Two days afterward three seamen rang his front-door bell.
Page 172
Page 172
146
_
THE OCHR-ANA
Badmayev had known them before and they wanted to con-
sult him about various ailments. His servant told them that his
master had been arrested and was being held a prisoner by the
Tsheka. The seamen lost no time in hurrying back on board
their ship to give the alarm to their comrades; then they all
took their arms and made straight for the headquarters of the
Tsheka. On their arrival they administered a sound drubbing
to their comrades who were officiating there, set Badmayev
free, and led him back home in triumph.
It was in Badmayev’s house, too, that I met Rasputin for
the first time in person, though I had long known all about
him through the documentary evidence at my disposal. One
evening, on my way home from the office, the thought occurred
to me to call at Badmayev’s to get his advice about a certain
indisposition from which I was suffering. The maid showed
me into the dining-room, where I found the master of the
house at supper with Rasputin, the latter’s friend Marya Golo-
vina, and some other guests. Badmayev invited me to take a
seat opposite Rasputin, and so I had an immediate opportunity
of observing him closely without making the fact too obvious.
I heard Rasputin inquiring of Badmayev who I was, and Bad-
mayev explaining to Rasputin my identity and my official
capacity. The information appeared to satisfy the monk, for
he smiled cheerfully and took part again in the general con-
versation, which had rather flagged at my entrance. Later on
Kurloy and Protopopov also turned up, for they were both con-
vinced supporters and regular patients of the Tibetan doctor.
After some talk of a general nature the conversation turned
into a discussion of the questions of the moment—the car-
riage of food-supplies on the railways and the distribution of
the refugees from the evacuated districts. The Imperial Duma
also was referred to several times, and we were unanimous in
coming to the conclusion that the action of that body was of
Page 173
Page 173
THE OCHRANA
147
no use whatever, and that it was directed mainly to hampering
the work of the Government by political intrigue and by
criticism as ill-founded as it was malicious.
However, I should like to emphasize the fact that all the
conversation we had on that evening, and on other occasions,
on these subjects, was purely academic in character and was
in no sense directed, as was often asserted at the time, toward
the end of getting Rasputin to take an interest in the person
of Protopopov and of swaying him in that sense. Just then—
that is, the end of October 1916—the Imperial Duma had
begun its fateful Autumn Session, when every sitting was ac-
companied by fresh outbursts against the Government and by
attacks on the ruling house, that grew daily more and more
open. It was therefore not to be wondered at if in our circle
too we discussed the things that were at the moment pre-
occupying all Russia.
At that, my first meeting with him, Rasputin gradually
got into a state of visible excitement. He rose from the table
and strode to and fro in the room, raising his hands to heaven
in obviously genuine despair. “Why do the members of the
Duma not love the Tsar?” he exclaimed several times. “Does
he not live only for the well-being of Russia?” Then, in his
awkward mode of speech, he began to talk of the various
slanders that were current about the Tsarina. I did not for a
moment doubt his sincerity when he bitterly lamented that
the Empress was being more and more plainly accused among
the people, in the Army, and by the Duma members, of trea-
sonable practices in favour of the Germans, nay, even of main-
taining a secret correspondence with Emperor William. He
said he could not understand at all how such senseless reports
had arisen, as every one, after all, who knew the Tsarina
must be well aware how sincerely and how intimately she felt
herself bound up with the Russian people and its fate.
Page 174
Page 174
148
- THE OCHRANA
That very first evening which I spent in company with
Rasputin convinced me that all the stories of his hypnotic
powers were pure twaddle. Several times he addressed me
directly, looking straight into my face with his piercing eyes.
But his glance had not affected me in the least in such a way
as to make me think of suggestive influence on his part, nor
did the expression of his face resemble in any way that of a
hypnotist. His eyes conveyed nothing more than strained at-
tention. You could see plainly what an effort he was making
to understand all that was being said, and how his brain was
working the while, to think over and to get ready an answer.
And further acquaintance served merely to confirm that first
impression.
With all that I am saying I do not wish to create in the
reader’s mind the idea that I was irresistibly carried away
with enthusiasm for Rasputin. I was, and still am, far removed
from that attitude. But I do regard it as my duty, in view of
the innumerable calumnies associated with the name of this
man, to bring out the good sides of his character. In any just
and dispassionate estimate of Rasputin we must not leave out
of account his genuine Russian nature, any more than his
steadfastness or his passionate love of his country, which ad-
mits of no doubt whatever.
Concerning the relations between Rasputin and Protopopov,
who a little later was to become the last Minister of the In-
terior under the Tsarist system, countless lying statements have
been made. I shall return to them again. Meantime I should
like to point out that from the beginning there certainly existed
a strong bond of mutual sympathy between them. Protopopov
took a deep and lively interest in Rasputin, because he ap-
peared to him to be the real representative of the soul of the
Russian people. Protopopov believed that he could learn much
about the prevalent state of feeling among the peasants from
Page 175
Page 175
THE OCHRANA
149
the utterances of Rasputin. Of this Protopopov expressly as-
sured me several times, and I have no reason at all to doubt
the sincerity of that most honourable man.
My first meeting with Rasputin was soon followed by many
more, and so I had abundant opportunity of making a careful
study of him. By that time he had already been, to some ex-
tent, corrupted by his environment; and, further, he had be-
come
involved
in the intrigues
of the Under-Secretary
Belyetsky, which led him to take many a step that it would
be hard to justify. At the same time, and unfortunately too
late, he had begun to have a dark foreboding that he had
grown to be a plaything in the hands of a group of adven-
turers. The vague realization of this fact both oppressed and
confused him. The cunning Belyetsky, in association with the
Minister Chvostov and a very shady individual named Andron-
nikov, had succeeded in drawing Rasputin into the net of their
self-seeking political scheming. In his honour sumptuous feasts
had been regularly arranged, during the course of which the
plan was to influence Rasputin in a definite direction. Without
suspecting it, he had allowed himself to be used as a tool in
the most varied and sometimes unscrupulous manceuvres.
After some time the complicated intrigue was wrecked on
the distrust and petty jealousies existing between Belyetsky
and Chvostov; the positions of the two men became untenable;
and only then did Rasputin recognize in what a dangerous
game he had been taking a hand. From that moment onward
he was in perpetual fear lest his lack of experience and educa-
tion should again be taken advantage of, to involve him in
some other equivocal affair. To this dread was added the dis-
satisfaction naturally caused by the attacks on him made in
the Duma.
In this mood of depression he said to me once quite frankly
that he did not understand at all why such importance was so
Page 176
Page 176
150
- THE OCHRANA
generally ascribed to his person. “After all,” he said, “I am
not a minister, and I just speak as my peasant wit tells me.
If the Tsar asks my opinion, I tell him honestly what I think,
and that is all. What have I done to these Duma men that they
should hate me so?”
In spite of that, he was by no means in favour of dissolving
the Duma. On the contrary, he often declared that, as the Tsar
had founded the Duma, it must continue to exist. He could
not and would not understand that this body had long since
ceased to wish to co-operate with the Tsar and his Govern-
ment; that, rather, it had one goal before it: the complete
destruction of the Tsardom. If, then, it was pointed out to
him that, not only in the public sittings, but in the party meet-
ings and in the lobbies, the Members of the Duma were dis-
cussing him in urgent and not very kindly terms, he would
fall into a curious state of confusion and begin to speak in
detached phrases, gesticulating with excitement.
“Leave them alone. They will talk and they will be quiet
again. They must be shown the right way, so that they may
get on with their work and not bother about me. What am I
then? A simple peasant. The Tsar and the Tsarina, in their
love, have been too good to me, and I tell them the truth when
I am asked. I believe in God, and I tell the truth in the presence
of the Tsar, as I would before God. The Duma-men must not
be vexed—they have many things to think of—they must be
pacified. When they have talked as long as they want to, they
will be sure to stop again of themselves. What is it they want
of me? After all, they are Russians anyway, and will under-
stand what they have been called to do? Surely not to busy
themselves with Grigory Rasputin, but to help the Tsar in his
Government. On no account must the Duma be dissolved!”
He used to speak to me quite frankly about such things, for
he knew that I understood him well. If I took him to task
Page 177
Page 177
THE OCHRANA
151
about his disorderly and often improper behaviour he would
_ reply with an awkward and somewhat embarrassed wave of
the hand, “What would you have, my dear man? Who is
innocent before God is also innocent before the Tsar.”
I was quite aware that one of Rasputin’s scandalous affairs,
in the summer of 1915, had led to the fall of General Jun-
kovsky, at that time my superior. On one of his numerous
journeys to Siberia Rasputin had stopped in Moscow and had
been invited to the home of a merchant of that city, with
whom he was on friendly terms. While there he had, by very
unmistakable signs, made known his intentions with regard
to a pretty maid-servant, although she had several times most
energetically repelled his advances. The Chief of the Moscow
Ochrana had sent in a secret report of the occurrence, and I
had forwarded this through the Chief of the Police Depart-
ment to General Junkovsky, the Under-Secretary for Home
Affairs. Junkovsky thought it necessary to inform the Em-
peror of what had happened, and, to tell the truth, he appears
to have been rather tactless in his procedure. For, soon after,
the Minister of the Interior, Prince Shtsherbatshov, received a
communication from the Tsar suggesting that he might find
another more suitable post for his Assistant. General Jun-
kovsky naturally drew the proper deduction from this Im-
perial reprimand and went into retirement.
Meanwhile Rasputin, accompanied by the agents who were
keeping him under observation, had been making his way to
his homeland. He had not had the slightest idea of the whole
incident, and consequently could hardly have had any influ-
ence upon Junkovsky’s fate. Yet in these days it was generally
affirmed that Junkovsky had fallen a victim to Rasputin’s
vengeance; the latter was said to have exerted his utmost in-
fluence at Court in order to compass the fall of the General
who had dared to inform the Tsar of his misconduct. Of course
Page 178
Page 178
152
- THE OCHRANA
I was now interested to hear what Rasputin himself would
have to say about this affair, and therefore, at the first oppor-
tunity that presented itself I managed, by a few adroit turns,
to bring the conversation to this Junkovsky business. He im-
mediately took up the topic. He confessed, without any more
ado, the sin he had committed that time in Moscow, and de-
nied emphatically that he had taken any part whatever in the
dismissal of Junkovsky. He asserted that it was some time
after the event that he had been told about his retirement and
the cause.
Altogether, so far as I gained any insight into his character,
I should say that Rasputin entertained no sort of vengeful feel-
ings against those who took up a hostile attitude toward him.
Whenever he spoke of any one of his enemies, he nearly al-
ways used to characterize him by the simple sentence, “He is
a bad man!” On the other hand, I never heard threats or curses
upon his lips.
As I have already mentioned, in the last months before his
death he allowed himself to be involved too deeply in the
schemes of political intriguers whose aims he was quite unable
to grasp. It was simply flattering to him to be able to associate
with rich and fashionable people and to observe how atten-
tively they listened to all he had to say and tell. The semblance
of special importance which that attitude conferred upon him
went to his head, and he did not notice how he was being sys-
tematically drawn into boastful forms of speech. When in the
society of people who spoiled him with nightly orgies he soon
adopted the airs of a man in the enjoyment of power and
honour, a man with whom it was not permissible for the first
person that came along to converse, as if Rasputin were an
ordinary peasant.
One man alone saw clearly and plainly the approaching
fall of Rasputin, and sought to warn the monk. That was
e
Page 179
Page 179
THE OCHRANA
153
Badmayev. He once had a long talk with me about the disaster
that seemed to be threatening to overwhelm Rasputin. At my
behest he went himself and implored Rasputin to cease from
allowing himself to be dragged from one scene of debauchery
to another, and especially to give up indulging in dangerous
and compromising talk. In his affectionate and touching way
he concluded this moral lecture by falling on his knees before
Rasputin and beseeching him to be a sensible man. Unfor-
tunately this well-meant warning came too late, for, only a
short time after, Badmayev’s fears were realized: Rasputin was
murdered by a group of his enemies.
Page 180
Page 180
CHAPTER XI
Rasputin’s Murderers—The Conspiracy—The Policeman and the Sus-
picious Shots—Purishkyevitsh’s Tell-tale Explanations—The Police in
Motion—Consultation
with the Minister of the Interior—Search
for
Compromising Documents
NLESS it be kept in mind that systematic and prolonged
preparations were made by certain circles, it would be
impossible to understand the crime that finally brought about
Rasputin’s death. The method pursued has already been in-
dicated: it consisted essentially in inducing the unsuspecting
peasant continually to drink to excess, and in encouraging him
to indulge in boastful and compromising talk, while, on the
other hand, his influence was grossly exaggerated. By these
means the opinion was created that this dissolute, arrogant
fellow—for that was what Rasputin was represented to be—
was really the omnipotent ruler of Russia, that the fate of the
Empire of the Tsars depended upon him alone.
It was almost inevitable that this calculated agitation should,
in the end, lead to a catastrophe. But the individuals who
actually carried out Rasputin’s murder are almost of less im-
portance than those plotters and schemers whose work it was
to stir up the general feeling of hatred for the man. The truth
is that this murder was not decided upon in the councils of
the mere doers of the deed, but months beforehand in the
lobbies of the Duma.
One of the murderers was V. N. Purishkyevitsh,
a man
whose natural inclinations were morbid enough to make it an
easy thing for him to yield to the inflammatory atmosphere
around him. That is the only possible explanation of the fact
that this Deputy, till then a Monarchist of the strictest kind,
154
a
ee
Page 181
Page 181
THE OCHRANA
a
suddenly mounted the orator’s platform to make a fierce attack
upon Rasputin and the Tsarina.
After this first departure from the straight road it was, as
it were, only a step farther along the crooked path that turned
him into a murderer. You can imagine what a triumph it was
for the instigators of the crime, men of the extreme Left, when
they managed to have the deed they so much wished to do
actually performed by a leading member of the Right wing of
the Duma.
However one may judge the motives that induced Purish-
kyevitsh to commit the crime, it was certainly inexcusable and
in the highest degree dishonourable on his part to drag the
Grand Duke Dimitry Pavlovitsh, a special favourite of the
Tsar, into the plot. As a loyal Monarchist it would have been
his duty even to prevent the whole wicked scheme by all the
means at his command, if it were only to keep the Grand Duke
from any sort of participation in such a deplorable deed of
bloodshed. But what are we to think of his action after the
murder had been committed? For he had the audacity to
compose a letter in the name of the Grand Duke addressed to
the Tsarina, in which he shamelessly lied to her. During the
many years of my legal practice I have, I must admit, come
across many a similar case of cowardice and untruthfulness,
but always among people from a very different social class.
Probably Purishkyevitsh was not quite capable of estimating
the full import of his act.
In that respect he resembled Prince Felix Yussupov, the sec-
ond of the chief conspirators in the plot against the life of
Rasputin. He too fell a victim to the universal suggestion, per-
suading himself that in removing the monk, even by the most
reprehensible means, he was doing a patriotic action and help-
ing in the liberation of the country. Prince Yussupov was a
fashionable young man, a popular figure in Petersburg draw-
Page 182
Page 182
156
_
THE OCHRANA
ing-rooms, distinguished alike by personal amiability and by
his prominent social position. Since the days of Peter the Great
the Yussupov family, originally of comparatively obscure rank,
had risen to wealth and honour largely by making successful
marriages. Finally, young Prince Felix Felixovitsh had mar-
ried into the Imperial family, by winning the hand of the
Grand Duchess Irene Alexandrovna, daughter of the Grand
Duke Alexander Michaelovitsh.
He had been personally acquainted with Rasputin for some
time, having met him in the house of the widow Golovina,
whose husband had been a Councillor of State. The old lady’s
daughter, Marya Golovina, was among the most intimate
friends and the most enthusiastic supporters of Rasputin; she
therefore sought continually to bring about a rapprochement
between Yussupov and the monk, all the more so because Ras-
putin, at the first meeting with the Prince, had taken a decided
liking to him. The haughty and pampered aristocrat, on the
other hand, had from the very first conceived only a violent
aversion for the simple peasant, who was so utterly different
from the usual run of his acquaintance. As I have already
pointed out, Rasputin had, toward the end of the year 1916,
already lost much of his earlier modesty and was frequently
assuming a provocative and overbearing manner.
This, combined with the preposterous reports current about
the influence of the peasant, prompted the thought in Yussu-
pov’s mind of putting a violent end once for all to this dis-
grace. He did not stop to consider that, in so doing, he would
hurt very much the Tsar, his wife’s uncle, and compromise
him as well. His passion made him oblivious of the fact that
the deed he was meditating fitted in exactly with the plans of
those people who were working systematically to undermine
the Emperor’s authority throughout the nation. What could
have been more to the mind of the ultra-Radical agitators than
Page 183
Page 183
THE OCHRANA
157
to have a member of the Imperial family himself raising a
hand against Rasputin, who stood so high in the esteem of Tsar
and Tsarina.
Purishkyevitsh delivered in the Duma a vehement attack
upon the “hidden powers,” and as a result of it a meeting be-
tween the hysterical Deputy and Yussupov took place. The
two men now decided jointly upon the crime and prepared for
its execution, most carefully considering all details. A cavalry
captain named Suchotin and a Polish doctor named Lazovyert
were also brought into the plot. Yussupov undertook to decoy
Rasputin into the trap, and therefore made it his business to
get into touch with him again, while, up till that moment,
he had ostentatiously gone out of his way to avoid him.
Golovina’s house provided an obvious rallying point, and
soon Yussupov seemed to be on the friendliest terms with Ras-
putin. He visited him on the pretext that he wanted to be
treated for some ailment, and easily found his way to the heart
of the guileless peasant by singing to him for hours on end
gipsy songs, which Rasputin loved to hear beyond all else.
The conspirators agreed to carry out the deed on the night
of December 16, 1916, and they had chosen as the scene of it
the palace of Prince Yussupov in Moika Street. That immense
building was at the moment not occupied by the owners, as
Yussupov’s whole family was staying in the Crimea. An out-
lying wing of the house contained a cellar, which was as a
rule not in use. It was reached from the courtyard by its own
little stair. This room, then, was fitted up as comfortably as
possible with all sorts of furniture and carpets, for it was here
that the conspirators thought of finishing off their victim. On
the pretext of a little festivity Rasputin was to be enticed there,
and then to be killed by poisoning his food and drink.
Yussupov delivered to him the sinister invitation, which
Rasputin at once joyfully accepted. On the evening of Decem-
Page 184
Page 184
158
_
THE OCHRANA
ber 16 Yussupov called for him and took him to the palace,
which he was never to leave again alive.
The murderers had hoped that their participation in the
deed would remain undiscovered, but, through a peculiar chain
of circumstances, the Police were informed the very next morn-
ing that the crime had been committed, and, what is more,
they had every reason to suspect Yussupov and Purishkyevitsh.
Before I proceed to describe the revelation of the whole
case, as I came to know it—I was myself in charge of the inves-
tigation—I should like to refer briefly to a point which, for a
time, very much exercised the public imagination. That was
the alleged failure of the attempted poisoning, which seemed
to imply a marvellous power of resistance in Rasputin’s con-
stitution to a preparation which normally is absolutely fatal.
With the utmost serenity Rasputin consumed one cake after
another supposed to be dosed with potasstum cyanide; he
drank off one poisoned glass after another, without the ex-
pected result appearing. The murderers, looking on and wait-
ing vainly, with their nerves all on edge, interpreted the cir-
cumstance as evidence that Rasputin’s body was proof against
poison, so that the poison had failed. Neither then nor after-
ward did Purishkyevitsh and his accomplices divine the sim-.
ple truth. The physician, Dr. Lazovyert, who had been en-
trusted with the task of putting the chemical into the cakes
and the wine-glasses, had simply been seized with conscien-
tious scruples, and had substituted some harmless substance,
such as soda or magnesia. In my view, that is the simple and
prosaic explanation of the reputed miracle said to have hap-
pened before the eyes of the conspirators.
The first suspicious report that directed the attention of the
authorities at once to the Yussupov Palace was that handed in
by a policeman on duty in the street. I set it down here as it
Page 185
Page 185
THE OCHRANA
159
appears in the record of the proceedings made, at my order,
by Lieutenant-Colonel of Gendarmerie Poppel.
On the night of December 16 [related this policeman, Vlassiyev]
I was standing at my post at the corner of Moika Street and Maxi-
milian Lane. At four o’clock in the morning I heard three or four
shots following each other in quick succession. Judging by the sound,
they appeared to come from the right side of the German Church
in Moika Street.
I went to Post Bridge and called to Policeman
Yefimov, who was standing in Morskaya Street in front of number 61.
When I asked him where the firing had come from, Yefimov an-
swered that the shots had come from my side.
Thereupon I went to number 94 Moika Street, the Yussupov Pal-
ace, to ask the house-steward who had been firing. He called out that
he had heard nothing. However, I looked through the railing and I
saw two men, bareheaded and in loose smocks, crossing the yard
obliquely toward the gate. Soon I recognized in them Prince Yussu-
pov and his steward Bushinsky. I inquired of Bushinsky what had
happened, and he replied again that he had not heard any shots, but
that possibly someone, in high spirits, had been firing in the air just
to amuse himself. I think I also remember that the Prince stated that
he had not heard any shooting. Then both men went away, and I
was left alone. I took the trouble to make a thorough examination of
the yard, but as I found nothing of a suspicious nature, I went back
to my post.
About a quarter of an hour later the aforementioned Bushinsky
came up to me and informed me that Prince Yussupov invited me
to go to his house. I acceded to this summons, and Bushinsky took
me through the front entrance of number 94 Moika Street into the
Prince’s private study.
I had scarcely crossed the threshold of this room when Prince
Yussupov stepped forward. He was accompanied by a gentleman
who was a stranger to me. The latter was wearing a cloak, military
green in colour, and to judge by his epaulettes he occupied the rank
of Councillor of State. He had close-cropped reddish whiskers, and a
moustache of the same hue.
This stranger asked me whether I was an Orthodox Christian, a
true Russian, and whether I loved the Tsar and our country. I an-
swered in the affirmative, whereupon he asked if I knew him. “No,
I do not know you,” I answered.
“Have you ever heard of Purishkyevitsh?”
“Yes,” I said, “I have heard of him.”
“T am he. And Rasputin, you've certainly heard of him, haven’t
you? Do you know him?”
Page 186
Page 186
160
THE OCHRANA
I declared that I did not know him, though, of course, I had heard
of him. This stranger then said to me:
“This Rasputin has just been dispatched, and if you love the T’sar
and your country, you must keep silent about the matter, and must
not say a word to anyone.”
E
“I understand, sir!” I said, whereupon the gentleman signified
that I might go. I left the house and returned once more to my post
after subjecting the street to a thorough examination.
About twenty minutes later the inspecting officer for my district,
Superintendent Kalyaditsh, came up to me, and to him I reported
exactly all that had taken place. Then, along with Kalyaditsh, I went
to the front door of number 94. At the entrance we found a motor
standing ready. We asked the chauffeur for whom it was waiting,
and he replied, “For the Prince.”
Kalyaditsh then continued on his round of inspection leaving me
there, with instructions to observe who should drive away in the
car. Before very long Prince Yussupov left the main entrance and
drove off in the direction of the Potseluyev Bridge. I waited for some
time longer in front of the house, and as I saw nobody else, I went
back again to my post.
Towards six o’clock Kalyaditsh came to me again and summoned
me to the office of the Superintendent of the Division, Colonel Rogov,
to whom we delivered our report of all that had happened. Thereafter
I went home.
As I had not noticed any traces of a murder, I regarded the con-
versation I had had in the Prince’s private room with the strange
gentleman as an attempt to put me to the test, to see whether I knew
what the Service required of me. Neither in the Prince nor in the
other gentleman did I observe a trace of excitement or confusion,
unless it was that the latter spoke very rapidly. Whether the gentle-
men were intoxicated I cannot say either with assurance.
This deposition made by Policeman Vlassiyev was, to a cer-
tain extent, supplemented by the observations of the second
Policeman, Yefimov, who stated in evidence:
At 4 Am. I heard a shot, and three or four seconds later there
followed in quick succession three more shots. My impression was
that the sound came from Moika Street, from somewhere about num-
ber 92. After the first shot there was audible a half-suppressed cry,
as if uttered by a woman. I heard no other noise.
A short time after a motor-car came down Moika Street in the
direction of Potseluyev Bridge; I did not see it stop anywhere. I
reported the shooting to the office of the Third Kasan Police District,
using the telephone. Then I went myself toward the place from
which the sounds had come.
Page 187
Page 187
THE OCHRANA
161
On the Post Bridge I met Policeman Vlassiyev, who was on duty
on his beat. He had likewise heard the shots, but was of opinion that
they had been fired in Morskaya Street. I told him that they
had probably come from Moika Street, number 92, and at once
returned to my post, where I observed nothing more to report. Apart
from the motor-car already mentioned no motor vehicle of any kind
passed along Moika Street till between five and six in the morning.
These reports seemed grave enough to set in motion at once
the entire machinery of the Police in the capital. Everyone
knew that Rasputin had many bitter enemies, and so, from
the very start, it was a natural thing to suppose that the strange
words spoken by Purishkyevitsh, apparently on the false as-
sumption that they would induce the policeman to keep silent,
had a foundation of truth.
The Kasan Police Station, therefore, informed the Chief of
the City Police, Balk, who immediately got into touch with
me. I considered the case so serious that I lost no time in ring-
ing up Protopopov, the Minister of the Interior, expressing my
fear that, during the previous night, Rasputin had been the
victim of a treacherous and murderous attack. We agreed to
have a close investigation instituted at once; and Protopopov,
by special command, commissioned General P. K. Popov, the
oficer commanding the Corps of Gendarmerie, to undertake
the responsibility. I personally instructed him to take care,
above all, to have a careful search made of Rasputin’s dwelling,
and to confiscate at once all compromising documents that
might be found there. For, although I had never believed in the
truth of the rumours concerning correspondence between Ras-
putin and the various members of the Imperial House, I consid-
ered it, all the same, my duty to take such a possibility into
account; and to make sure that documents affecting, perhaps,
very exalted persons should not fall, after Rasputin’s disap-
pearance, into the hands of unauthorized people.
The result of Popov’s investigations, however, confirmed my
Page 188
Page 188
162
- THE OCHRANA
original supposition, for neither any correspondence compro-
mising Rasputin, nor any letters from the Tsarina addressed
to him, were found. I also had inquiry made to find out
whether Rasputin might not have papers, valuables, or money
deposited with one of the banks. This inquiry likewise pro-
duced no result—a further proof in my eyes of the stupidity
of the scandal current everywhere about Rasputin.
Page 189
Page 189
CHAPTER XII
The First Inquiries made by the Police—The Caretaker’s Narrative—
The Mysterious “Little One’—Bloodstains—Interrogation of Manserv-
ant—Yussupov’s Attempt to clear himself—The Mysterious Party—The
Shot in the Yard—The Dead Dog.
HE very first interrogation of the members of Rasputin’s
family and of his servants pointed plainly to the fact that
the happenings in the Yussupov Palace during the night of
the 16th of December must have some sort of connexion with
Rasputin’s disappearance.
I was already practically convinced that he had been mur-
dered in Prince Yussupov’s house, when the minute of the
deposition made by Rasputin’s daughter, Matryona Grigo-
ryevna, was placed before me. She said:
On the 16th of December I left home at seven o’clock in the eve-
ning and returned about eleven. Just as I was about to retire to rest,
my father said to me that he was going to pay a visit that night to
the Little One’s. That is the name that father always used to designate
Prince Yussupov. Soon after I went to bed, and therefore I do not
know whether father really went to Yussupov’s.
That Rasputin had made an appointment with the Prince
for that night was also confirmed by the evidence of his
younger daughter and his niece, who agreed in stating that
Grigory Yefimovitsh had expressed his intention of looking
up the Little One that night.
As soon as the Police had appeared in Rasputin’s home the
family, in great alarm, rang up his friend Mme Golovina,
who, however, assured them that there was no reason to worry
if Rasputin was at Yussupov’s. Then Matryona Rasputin tried
to get through to the Prince by telephone, but was told that
he was not at home.
What had really happened on that fateful night became a lit-
163
Page 190
Page 190
164
THE OCHRANA
tle clearer to me when General Popov passed on to me the
statement made by the porter in Rasputin’s house. This man’s
name was Korshunoy. He was interrogated by a Police of-
.
ficial, whose record of the deposition runs as follows:
I am the caretaker at number 64 Gorochovaya Street. During the
past night I was on guard duty and was standing in the street in front
of the gate. Toward half-past twelve a large motor-car drove up. The
body was painted a military grey; it was covered with a waterproof
hood and had mica windows. The car came from the direction of
Fontanka Street, turned in to Gorochovaya Street, and stopped at our
gate. A gentleman, a stranger to me, got out and stepped toward the
entrance. When I asked him whom he wished to see, he replied,
“Rasputin.”
I opened the gate and showed the gentleman to the main stair-
case, but he said he would rather go up by the back stair. From the
way he moved about the building you could see that that was not his
first visit.
In about half an hour he left the house with Rasputin; both men
got into the car and drove off in the direction of Fontanka Street.
I had never seen the man before. He was of average height, well
built, about thirty years of age. He had-a little black moustache, was
otherwise clean-shaven, and did not wear glasses. He wore a long
reindeer coat with the fur outside, a black cap, and long boots. The
chauffeur, who looked a little older than his master, had an ordinary
black moustache; he was wearing a black cloak with a lambskin
collar, a fur cap, and long tan gloves.
The description that this caretaker had given of the noctur-
nal visitor, apart from trifling inaccuracies, fitted approxi-
mately Prince Yussupov. His account of the motor-car seemed
to agree fairly well too. But that Yussupov and the stranger
were really identical was brought out still more clearly by the
evidence of Yekaterina Ivanoyna Potyomkina, Rasputin’s maid-
servant. After her deposition had been taken there was scarcely
any shadow of doubt left that Yussupov had taken a very
serious part in the events of that night.
On the 16th of December [declared the servant in her deposition]
very few visitors called on Grigory Rasputin, and among them none
that I did not know.
During the day about ten persons had ap-
peared, of whom I remember especially Marya Yevgenyevna Golo-
Page 191
Page 191
THE OCHRANA
165
vina, who arrived toward noon and did not quit the house again
till nearly nine o’clock at night.
It would be about eleven o’clock when Rasputin’s children, Ma-
tryona and Varja, along with his niece Anna, went to bed, while he
himself lay on his bed with his clothes and boots on. I asked him
why he did not undress, to which he answered, “I’ve got another
visit to pay yet.” When I inquired whom he was intending to call
upon, his reply was, “The Little One; he is going to call for me.”
Then he told me to go to bed.
I do not know the surname of this Little One, but I do know that
he is the husband of the Grand Duchess Irene Alexandrovna. I have
seen him twice in Rasputin’s home, on a holy day about the 2oth
of November and just about a week ago. Both times he came up the
back stairs.
Although Grigory Yefimovitsh had sent me to bed, I first went
into the kitchen again. Rasputin put on his blue shirt, the one em-
broidered with cornflowers, but he could not fasten the buttons at
the collar, and came into the kitchen to ask me to help him. Mean-
while the bell at the side entrance rang.
Rasputin opened the door himself, whereupon the visitor asked if
there was anyone about. Grigory Yefimovitsh replied, “There is no
one up; the children are asleep. Step in, my dear fellow.” Both walked
past me through the kitchen and went into the sitting-room. I was
in the kitchen recess and, pushing the curtain aside, I saw that the
visitor was no other than the Little One, that is, the husband of Grand
Duchess Irene. What kind of coat and hat he had on I cannot say, but
I saw his face quite plainly.
I was already in bed when Rasputin went out with his visitor.
Grigory Yefimovitsh whispered to me that he had bolted the front
door inside, that he would go out by the side door and come in the
same way. This is what I remember of the Little One’s appearance:
he is tall and lanky, with a thin face, straight nose, dark hair, no
beard, dark rings under the eyes.
What made Prince Yussupov’s behaviour appear extremely
suspicious was the report that he had bluntly denied having
been in Rasputin’s company on the critical night. For Mme
Golovina had at last got into telephonic communication with
the Prince who, to her very great amazement, assured her that
he had neither called for him nor been visited by him on the
previous evening. As we were already in possession of suf-
ficient evidence that this statement was false, the only effect
Page 192
Page 192
166
-THE OCHRANA
produced by his clumsy denial was to compromise Yussupov
very gravely.
During the course of the forenoon I was rung up several
times by Protopopov, who was making urgent inquiries as to
how we were getting on with the investigation. The Minister
also informed me that the Tsarina was in touch with him,
being anxious to learn what had really happened. I reported
to him the stage we had reached in our inquiries; nor did I
conceal from him my view that the cumulative result of all
the evidence procured so far was to incriminate Prince Yus-
supov. At the same time I requested the Minister to authorize
me to have the Yussupov Palace searched, a step that ap-
peared to me extremely urgent. Protopopov approved of the
measures I suggested, and besought me to do my utmost to
have the case cleared up as quickly as possible; it was particu-
larly important to determine what had become of Rasputin’s
body. In the circumstances the Minister entertained no more
doubt than I did myself that we were really dealing with a case
of murder.
A party of Police was sent with all speed to examine the
Palace of the Prince, and discovered very distinct traces of
blood, which led past the cellar-steps in the wing of the build-
ing diagonally across the courtyard. When he was questioned
as to the origin of these traces, the Prince averred that during
the preceding night one of his guests, obviously in a slightly
befuddled condition, had shot a dog, which accounted for the
blood. And the Police were actually shown the dead body of
a dog that had been killed with bullets fired from a revolver.
But the amount of blood shed seemed, from the very start, to
be too great for that explanation to be accepted as genuine.
The caretaker of the palace could not supply any information
that was not already contained in the reports of the two po-
Page 193
Page 193
THE OCHRANA
167
licemen: he had heard shots during the night, and Prince Yus-
supov had had some conversation with a constable.
The evidence of Yussupov’s servant, Nefedov, gave the im-
pression of being neither truthful nor frank. It was quite
clearly intended to confirm, as far as possible, the Prince’s own
statements. The servant declared that Prince Felix had given
him instructions to make the necessary preparations in the
dining-room for the reception of two or three guests. “At the
front entrance,” said Nefedov, “the house-steward Bushinsky
and I kept watch by turns. During the evening I saw no one
come in; but at eleven o'clock I left my post at the door for
some time, and when I had returned, Bushinsky told me that
the Grand Duke Dimitry Pavlovitsh had come and had gone
into the dining-room. Bushinsky and I remained in the ante-
room at the front door till about four o’clock. Neither of us
entered the dining-room, for the Prince had forbidden us to
do so, observing that there would be ladies present. Now and
then we could hear the sound of doors opening or closing,
and the playing of a gramophone, and that was all. Two or
three times before the Prince had arranged such parties from
which the servants were excluded. I did not hear, either in
the dining-room or in the street, anything like shooting.
“Toward four o’clock in the morning the bell rang, and I
went at once to the Prince’s study. There were then no guests
present. The Prince ordered me to go down to the yard and
see what had happened there. I did so, but I saw nothing to
report to the Prince. A few minutes after that he rang again
and told me to go and find out more carefully what had really
taken place, for, he said, there was a dog that had been shot
lying in the yard. I went this time through the side door into
the yard of number 92, and I did really find, near the railings,
the dead body of a dog, which I picked up and carried into
the Prince’s garden; it is lying there now.
Page 194
Page 194
168
_THE OCHRANA
“On the morning of the 17th of December I cleared up in the
dining-room and found everything there just as it should be.
From the amount of wine that had been consumed it could
only be concluded that all the guests had probably been drunk.
The Prince himself was rather tipsy. The dog that was shot
was an ordinary watch-dog and belonged to the Prince.”
We were all on tenterhooks awaiting the report of how
Yussupov would describe and explain the events of the pre-
ceding night. I was myself already firmly convinced of his
guilt, and should have really expected him to make an open
confession, for that was probably the most dignified course
under the circumstances. But Yussupov was far from thinking
of that; on the contrary, to the officials who questioned him,
he retailed an involved and highly improbable story which
was in glaring contradiction of all that we already knew.
I made Rasputin’s acquaintance some five years ago [the Prince
deposed] it was, as a matter of fact, in the house of Marya Yevgen-
yevna Golovina. This year I met him again in November, and he
made a much better impression upon me than in previous years. I
suffer from pains in the chest, and once, when I spoke to Mme Golo-
vina about them, she advised me to consult Rasputin, saying that he
had already cured many people and would be able to help me too.
Toward the end of November I went with Mme Golovina to call upon
Rasputin.
He described around me some circular movements with his hands,
after which I did really think that I felt a certain relief. Some of his
expressions—for example, that I must go to the gipsies and cure my
pains with the aid of pretty women—made an unpleasant impression
upon me, however, and I emphatically rejected that suggestion.
Once he turned the conversation on to the subject of my wife,
inquiring as to our mode of life and finally expressing a desire to
make her acquaintance. I gave him an evasive answer, and said we
should talk of it again when my wife returned from the Crimea: in
reality I was firmly resolved never, under any circumstances, to re-
ceive Rasputin in my house.
Meantime I had had a new house fitted up at number 94 Moika
Street, and Grand Duke Dimitry Pavlovitsh proposed that I should
give a little party there. We decided to invite also Vladimir Mitro-
fanovitsh’ Purishkyevitsh along with some officers and society women.
Page 195
Page 195
THE OCHRANA
169
For obvious reasons I should prefer not to give the names of the
ladies or officers in question, as the motive for their visiting me might
somehow or other be misconstrued.
In order that the ladies should not feel embarrassed, I instructed
the servants to make everything ready for tea and dinner, and then
to withdraw. The majority of the guests were to come through the
side gate, the key of which I had on my own person. Towards half-
past eleven Grand Duke Dimitry Pavlovitsh appeared and soon after
the other guests turned up. We drank tea, played the piano, danced,
and finally we dined. Toward one o'clock in the morning I heard
the telephone in my private room ringing. It was Rasputin, who
insisted that I should go with him to visit the gipsies. When I replied
that I had company, he said that I should quit my guests and go to
him, which, of course, I refused to do. I asked him where he was
speaking from, but he gave me no answer. The reason for my ques-
tion was that I had heard through the telephone noises and voices,
especially female voices, and concluded that Rasputin was in a restau-
rant or with the gipsies.
After this conversation I went back to the dining-room and told
them of Rasputin’s proposal. Jokes were cracked about it, and for
some time we hesitated as to whether we should not all go together;
in the end, however, they all remained at my place, and we went on
with our dinner. About three o’clock the party broke up and they all
went out by the side gate.
Suddenly I heard a shot fired in the yard. I rang for the servant
and ordered him to go and see what was the matter. The servant
having found nothing, I went down to the yard myself and noticed,
near the railings, the dead body of a dog. In the street I heard the
footsteps of a man wearing a grey coat after the style of a military
uniform. He was hurrying away as fast as he could. I observed that
he had a tall, slim figure, but I could not see more than that dis-
tinctly, because of the poor light. When I returned indoors, I told my
man to remove the dog.
Soon after I rang up Grand Duke Dimitry Pavlovitsh to tell him
of the incident. His Imperial Highness replied that he himself had
killed the dog; he said it was just a silly prank, and that I was not
to think any more about it. I sent out to the street for a constable and
told him that my friend had shot a dog. Purishkyevitsh, who was
present, entered into conversation with the policeman; I heard only
a part of what was said. But I remember how loudly he called out
that he was Purishkyevitsh, member of the Imperial Duma, and how
he was all the time gesticulating wildly.
About four o’clock I left the house by the side gate, entered my
motor-car, and drove to the palace of the Grand Duchess Xenia
Alexandrovna, where I am living at present. This morning I spoke
on the telephone to Marya Golovina, who asked me where Rasputin
Page 196
Page 196
170
THE OCHRANA
was. I replied that I did not know anything of his whereabouts,
for I had not seen him, but had merely spoken to him by telephone.
Thereupon Mme Golovina informed me that Rasputin’s servants
were asserting that I had called for him at his own house about one
o'clock. This, however, is a mistake, for neither by day nor by night
was I there; I spent the whole night in the house in Moika Street, a
fact that my servants and my guests are able to confirm.
As I am told, Purishkyevitsh is supposed to have been saying some-
thing in my private room about Rasputin’s death. I myself never
noticed that, but during the night Purishkyevitsh was very drunk,
and did perhaps mention Rasputin in some connexion or another.
I suppose that the people who planned this murder, if it is indeed
a case of murder, have intentionally arranged things so that my
ae and the party I gave last night should seem to be associated
with
it.
Page 197
Page 197
CHAPTER XIII
Inquiries on all Sides—The Snow-boot on the Neva Bridge—Search
for the Body—The Tsarina’s Dismay—Rasputin’s Burial—Yussupov
lies to the Empress—Incriminating Telegrams—An Anonymous Letter
—Purishkyevitsh flees to the Front—The Tsar's Decisions with respect
to the Murderers—Opposition of the Grand Dukes—The Murderers
exiled
ONG before midday of December 17 the news of Rasputin’s
mysterious disappearance had spread with lightning ra-
pidity all over the capital, and was being everywhere eagerly
discussed. Of course, there was as yet no incontrovertible proof
that he was really dead, for so far the authorities had failed
to find the body. Accordingly, there were still many people
who thought that the monk was perhaps not killed, but
had merely been abducted by political enemies.
During that forenoon I was literally besieged by countless
inquiries over the telephone and by callers of every social class:
members of the Duma, civil servants, Society ladies, Ministers,
and quite humble people wanted to know what results had
been achieved by the Police investigation. I was as reserved as
possible in the information I gave them, and reported the real
state of the facts, as far as we knew them, only to my superior,
Protopopov, who rang me up repeatedly.
In the afternoon affairs took a new and critical turn. At
one o'clock some workmen, crossing Petrovsky Bridge, noticed
bloodstains on the parapet and pointed them out to the watch-
man on duty there. A policeman was summoned; he too con-
firmed the presence of bloodstains on the parapet and on the
pier of the bridge, and reported the fact to his headquarters.
The superintendent hurried to the spot, and on the pro-
jecting ledge of one of the piers he discovered a brown snow-
I7I
Page 198
Page 198
172
_
THE OCHRANA
boot, which was immediately got hold of, pulled up, and se-
cured. It was taken away at once to Rasputin’s house, where
all the members of his family and the agents of the Ochrana
present recognized it as having belonged to the man who had
so strangely vanished. So we had obtained a valuable clue to
the way the murderers had disposed of the body of their
victim.
When General Popov informed me by telephone of this find
my first thought was to wonder what could have been passing
in the minds of the assassins when they were conveying the
corpse in their elegant motor-car to the Petrovsky Bridge,
and afterward, when they had thrown it into the water there.
What had been the thoughts of those men while they were
doing their utmost to obliterate the traces of their deed of
blood? Were they thinking of the advantages to their native
land that would ensue upon their action, or were they intent
merely on devising ways and means of evading the legal
responsibility for the crime they had committed?
Our next step was to have the Neva searched for the body,
although the river was very nearly frozen over. For this
purpose I immediately got into touch with the harbour au-
thorities and requested them to procure divers. When these
got to work they did not take long to find Rasputin’s body.
It turned out that his arms and legs were tied with cords, and
that, besides taking that measure, the murderers had attached
a chain so as to cause the body to sink. The examination of
the corpse showed that the murdered man had received a
large number of wounds inflicted by shooting and stabbing.
I let Protopopov know at once what we had discovered, and
the Minister immediately passed on the report to the Empress
at T’sarskoye Syelo; the news threw her into the greatest indig-
nation and dismay. Her Majesty expressed the desire that the
body should be buried in the park of the Imperial Palace, and
Page 199
Page 199
Tsar THe
AND
LEAVING TsarIna
THE
CHURCH
Page 200
Page 200
S061 NI AGALIAUTS IWNAId OL AVM UIGHJ, NO
‘AMSLOW][, ONIGATON] ‘(LAIAOG) TIONNOD S.NIWHUOM OUNASUALAY “LG AHNL AO suaa way
Page 201
Page 201
THE OCHRANA
173
meanwhile instructed a nun, a faithful follower of Rasputin,
to recite the usual prayers by the bier of the dead monk. On
December 21 the burial took place in the presence of the Tsar
and Tsarina and of Rasputin’s family.
No later than December 17 the Empress had ordered Yus-
supov to tell her exactly what had taken place the previous
night in his palace. Yussupov, who, as we know, had already
been vindicating himself in anything but a manly way, was
now bold enough to maintain his lying account of all that
occurred in his letter to the Empress, a copy of which Protopo-
pov sent to me at once. The letter bore the date of December
17, and this was its tenor.
Your Impertat Majesty,
I hasten to obey the commands of Your Majesty and to report
what occurred in my house last night. It will be my aim, in doing
so, to clear myself of the dreadful accusation that is being made
against me.
I had arranged a little supper as a house-warming in my new
quarters and invited my friends, a few ladies and the Grand Duke
Dimitry Pavlovitsh. About midnight I was rung up by Grigory
Yefimovitsh, who invited me to go with him to see the gipsies. I
declined, giving as my excuse the party in my own house, and I
asked him where he was speaking from, for a great many voices could
be heard coming over the wire. But he answered, “You want to
know too much,” and with that he rang off. That is all that I heard
from Grigory Yefimovitsh during the night.
After this talk over the telephone I went back to my guests and
told them that it was Rasputin who had rung me up. This provoked
my friends to various ill-considered remarks, for, as Your Majesty
knows, the name of Grigory Yefimovitsh is very unpopular in various
circles. About three o’clock most of my guests took their departure,
and after I had said good-bye to the Grand Duke and two ladies
I retired with the others to my study.
Suddenly I had the impression that a shot had been fired close
by. I called my man and ordered him to see what had happened.
He came back almost at once with the report that a shot had been
heard, but no one knew where it had come from.
Thereupon I went out myself to the yard and asked the caretakers
and the policeman ‘who had fired the shot. The caretakers answered
that they had been drinking tea in their room, while the constable
said he had certainly heard the shot, but knew nothing more about it.
Page 202
Page 202
174
_ THE OCHRANA
I went back into the house, sent for the policeman, and meantime
asked Dimitry Pavlovitsh by telephone whether it was he who had
been firing. He answered me with a laugh that, as he left the house,
he had fired one or two shots at a dog and that one of the ladies had
fainted. When I observed that the shots had made some stir, he ex-
pressed the opinion that it could not be so bad as all that, for there.
had not been anyone about.
I called my manservant and went out again myself to the yard,
where I did really find one of our dogs lying dead near the railings.
I ordered them to bury the animal in the garden.
At four o’clock the remainder of my guests went home and I re-
turned to the house of Alexander Michaelovitsh, where I am staying
at present. Next day—that is, this morning—I learned of the disap-
pearance of Grigory Yefimovitsh, which they are trying to connect
with the little party at my house. I am also informed that I am alleged
to have been seen last night at Rasputin’s and that he is stated to have
driven away with me. That is, however, a downright lie, for neither
I nor my guests left my house all through the night. Finally, I have
also been told that Rasputin is said to have remarked to someone that
he was going in the next few days to call on Irene in order to make
her acquaintance. That may be quite correct, for the last time I saw
him he did really ask me to introduce him to my wife and inquired
whether she was in town. I answered at the time that Irene was at
present in the Crimea, and would not be back before the 15th or 16th
of December. On the evening of the 14th I received a telegram from
her in which she informed me that she had fallen ill, and requested
me to go to her along with her brothers, who are setting off to-night.
I assure Your Majesty that I can hardly find words to express to
Your Majesty how deeply concerned I am by all these happenings and
how monstrous the accusations made against me appear to me to be.
I remain,
Your Majesty’s devoted and faithful servant,
FELix
This abortive attempt on the part of Yussupov to exonerate
himself by such mendacious assertions from the grave sus-
picion that rested upon him gave the Empress great offence.
For the time being she left Yussupov’s letter unanswered and
bluntly refused his petition that she should receive him in au-
dience. Not till several days had elapsed, by which time the
true facts of the case had already been established beyond any
possibility of doubt, did she write to the Prince, in pencil and
Page 203
Page 203
THE OCHRANA
ws
on a scrap of paper, a few lines expressive of her condemna-
tion. They were as follows:
No one has a right to murder. I know very well that many people
are suffering the tortures of remorse, for it is not only Dimitry Pav-
lovitsh who is involved in this affair. Your letter filled me with utter
amazement.
As I knew how keenly the Empress felt this crime com-
mitted against a good-natured man who had been so faithfully
devoted to her, I was all the more painfully astonished by the
reaction to this murder in many circles. It was natural that the
party groups of the Extreme Left should be exultant; but a
much more regrettable thing was the open sympathy for the
murderers felt and publicly expressed even by very’ exalted
personages.
Already on December 18 our censorship brought to my
notice two telegrams dispatched by the Grand Duchess Elisa-
beth, the Tsarina’s sister. One of the messages was addressed to
the Grand Duke Dimitry Pavlovitsh;
it was in English
and ran:
Just returned very late after week in Sarov and Divyeyev. Prayed
for you all. Please send letter with particulars. God grant Felix neces-
sary strength after patriotic deed.
ELLA
The second telegram, which was in French, was sent to
Princess Yussupoy, the mother of Prince Felix, who was living
at the time in the Crimea. It was in these terms:
My earnest, heartfelt prayers for you all after your dear son’s
patriotic deed.
ELIsABETH
Thus the Grand Duchess made no attempt to conceal her
conviction that Yussupov was at the bottom of Rasputin’s mur-
der, and approved of his act as a patriotic and heroic deed.
A few weeks after the crime was committed the censorship
Page 204
Page 204
176
_ THE OCHRANA
also stopped an anonymous letter addressed to Prince Yussu-
pov; it came from the Government of Nizhny-Noygorod, and
in enthusiastic words lauded the assassination of Rasputin as
a work of redemption and liberation. In this document we
read:
Brave and honourable men have, for a long time past, been striv-
ing to overcome the powers of darkness. In the Imperial Duma the
matter has been discussed and the Tsar has been earnestly entreated
to turn aside from his evil ways, to enter upon the path of truth
and light, and to remember the oath he swore to our native land.
But Nicholas has refused to give ear to the voice of truth and, to-
gether with his hypocritical courtiers, he has continued to pursue his
disastrous course to the undoing of the country. Then the saviours of
Russia comprehended that all further prayers and entreaties were
doomed to avail nothing, because the Tsar is deaf, and that, accord-
ingly, some other way must be taken.
This way has now been found; the thing that the people have long
looked for with yearning has come to pass: the wound has been
opened and cleansed; the monster of unrighteousness has been made
harmless; Grisha is dead and has left behind nought but an evil-
smelling corpse.
Truly there are still other things to be done. Many of the dark pow-
ers that had made common cause with Rasputin are even now still at
work: Nicholas, the Tsarina, and other dregs of human society. The
great men who carried out that deed of heroism are falsely called
murderers; they are not murderers but saints who have jeopardized
their lives for the well-being of their country. Woe be to Nicholas
if he do violence to the life and liberty of these men! Like one man
the whole people will then arise and do to the Tsar even as he did
unto Colonel Myassoyedov.
Tue Voice oF THE PEOPLE
The stupidity and baseness of this letter speak for them-
selves; but they are characteristic, for they show to what
lengths the pernicious and inflammatory propaganda of the
Revolutionaries had already gone, when people could venture
to speak in such a tone of the august persons of the Emperor
and the Empress. Of course I had this letter suppressed, so
that it never reached its destination.
The investigation begun by me into the disappearance of
Page 205
Page 205
THE OCHRANA
177
Rasputin was now suspended, and I handed over the whole
affair to the Ministry of Justice to be dealt with according to
the usual official procedure. Without waiting beyond the morn-
ing of December 17, Purishkyevitsh had gone off to the Front
with the hospital train of which he was in charge, thus leaving
his accomplices to face the music alone. He was very well
aware that his appearance for some time to come on the ora-
tor’s platform in the Duma would not be possible.
Yussupov tried as long as he could to maintain his fairy-tale
of the dog that was shot, and repeated it both to the Chief of
the City Police, Balk, and to the Minister of Justice, Makarov.
When he tried to induce Makarov to believe that Purishkye-
vitsh had spoken those incriminating words to the police-
man when in a state of intoxication, the Minister was in a
position to counter the statement by observing that Purish-
kyevitsh, to his personal knowledge, abstained on principle
from the use of alcoholic liquors.
Then Yussupov requested permission to leave Petersburg
and to go to his wife in the Crimea; and this permission was
actually granted him by Makarov in the first instance. But
when the Tssarina heard of the Prince’s intention, she forbade
him to set off until the return of the Tsar, who was then visit-
ing G.H.Q. Thereupon Yussupov betook himself to the palace
of the Grand Duke Dimitry, and the two murderers now be-
haved as if they were national heroes, receiving regular visits
of congratulation from those people who were so misguided
as to see in their deed a work of patriotic liberation.
On December 19 the Tsar returned, and at once ordered
the Grand Duke Dimitry to be placed under arrest—that is, he
forbade him to leave his palace. At the command of the Tsar,
Trepov, the President of the Council of Ministers, subjected
Prince Yussupov to a thorough cross-examination; but this time
again they failed to persuade Yussupov to describe truthfully
Page 206
Page 206
178
-THE OCHRANA
and frankly what had taken place. Soon after the Tsar issued
an order requiring Yussupov to retire to his estate in the Gov-
ernment of Kursk.
Grand Duke Dimitry Pavlovitsh was commanded to join
the staff of the Army operating in Persia, and this decision
by His Majesty called forth energetic protests from an oppo-
sition group within the Imperial family itself. Some of the
Grand Dukes submitted a letter to the Tsar, beseeching him
not to treat young Dimitry Pavlovitsh with such severity, as,
after all, he had merely taken part in the removal of a de-
tested and obnoxious wretch.
This letter became publicly known almost at once and gave
rise to much discussion. In my view the document was both
imprudent and heartless; it revealed plainly the purpose not,
as might have been expected, of conserving the interests of
the Imperial family, but rather of representing the special
aims of the Liberal group among the Grand Dukes. The Em-
peror dealt with the petition with his customary sense of jus-
tice, by simply writing a marginal note to say that no one
could be allowed to commit murder and go unpunished.
So the Imperial command was carried out. That same night
both Yussupov and the Grand Duke Dimitry Pavlovitsh, es-
corted by officers, had to set out from Petersburg. During the
journey they were prohibited from holding conversation and
from receiving or sending telegrams.
Page 207
Page 207
CHAPTER XIV
From Nthilism to Socialism—Maxim Gorky’s Bombing School—Revo-
lutionaries
as Patriots—Lenin
works
to
bring about Defeat—The
Ochrana suppresses a Revolutionary Meeting—Gutshkov’s Disastrous
Activities—Rise of a Pushing Politician—Gutshkov’s Hatred for the
Tsar—Case of the Yoffe Sisters—Order No. I
HE murder of Rasputin formed a prelude to those melan-
choly events that were destined to occur within an ever-
widening sphere and to lead to the collapse of the Russian
Empire. Before I turn to the description of the Revolution, I
should like, however, on the strength of experience acquired
in the service of the Political Police, to make one or two ob-
servations as to the development and aims of those parties and
personalities whose accursed work it was at last to bring about
that Revolution.
Systematic revolutionary agitation had begun in Russia in
the sixties of the nineteenth century, when a group of intellec-
tuals and innovators first made the attempt to shake and to
undermine by violent measures the existing order of the
State. It was at that time that the Netshayev conspiracy was
formed, the conspiracy of which Dostoyevsky gives such a
dreadful and such a thrilling picture in his Demons; it was
then, too, that Peter Krapotkin was disseminating his insidi-
ous doctrines in the minds of Russian youth. It was the period
of that mental aberration which is commonly indicated by
the word Nihilism, and it is sad enough to reflect that, from
that point onward, the whole world grew accustomed to re-
garding Nihilism as a specifically Russian phenomenon.
The sanguinary consequences of Nihilist propaganda were
not long in making themselves manifest. In a short time re-
peated attempts were made on the lives of the Tsar and his
179
Page 208
Page 208
180
THE OCHRAKA
Ministers. The revolutionaries began against all the repre-
sentatives of the established order a ruthless campaign that soon
claimed many innocent victims. A fanatical Nihilist named
Vyera Zassulitsh may claim the unhappy distinction of having
been the first woman to be accused of a political crime and to
be acquitted. A sentimental jury allowed itself to be swayed
into returning that disastrous and mistaken verdict; and it
may be said that the verdict appeared in consequence to sanc-
tion, as it were by the voice of popular approval, the violent
suppression of servants of the State who happened to be dis-
liked. Soon after that the Chiefs of the Police in Kiev and
Petersburg, the Governor of Charkoy, and other high officials
were murdered. Nay, even in the lecture-halls of universities
professors fell victims to the revolutionary madness of their
hearers.
The life of the Tsar was no longer safe for one moment.
After two vain attempts had been made to kill Alexander II
a Nihilist named Stepanov succeeded in making his way into
the Winter Palace and in secreting there a charge of dynamite.
The dining-room of the Imperial family was destroyed by
the explosion, and only by a miracle did the Tsar and his
relatives escape for that time a horrible death. The Nihilists
did not hesitate in their proclamations to assume responsibility
for this criminal attempt, and to announce that it would be
repeated. And, indeed, one year later Alexander II, one of the
kindliest and greatest of the rulers of Russia, who had lib-
erated his people from serfdom, was torn to pieces by a bomb.
The storm of indignation provoked throughout Russia by
this deed of horror made it clear to the revolutionaries that
they would have to set about their work differently if they
wished to awake a popular response. Individual acts of ter-
rorism continued as before, but with them was associated a
systematic campaign, in which the people were worked up by
Page 209
Page 209
THE OCHRANA
181
the aid of revolutionary cries and catchwords. The secret as-
sociation called the Liberation of Labour was formed, tending
more and more in the direction of Socialism.
Then, in the nineties, the doctrines of Karl Marx made rapid
headway in Russia, spreading with desolating effect, especially
in the circles which have been called the Intelligentsia, the
cultivated classes, above all among university students. At the
same time the Revolutionary Socialists began a dangerous agi-
tation among the peasants, stimulating among the ignorant
country-people a hankering after the estates of the great landed
proprietors.
At that time the real leader of Social Democracy in Russia
may be said to have been L. Martov. His ambition was to be-
come a second Marx and to work out the theory of the revo-
lutionary teachings, while, at the same time, realizing them
in practice. In the year 1898 a secret congress was held at
Minsk, at which the Russian Socialist Labour Party was
founded. In the year 1900 Lenin too began his disastrous
activity by publishing the revolutionary organ Iskra—“The
Spark.”
The progress made by Socialism in a short time was revealed
in the most astounding fashion on the outbreak of the Revo-
lution of 1905. Already the workmen showed that they were
willing to follow ex masse the summons to the general strike
issued by the Socialists. And if, by bringing to bear its utmost
energy and resources, the Government did succeed for the
time in suppressing the insurrection, the fact remains that the
authorities saw, from that moment, that the Socialists had
now grown to be their deadliest enemies. Even the Army had
already been to some extent infected by Socialist ideas in 1905,
a strong Socialist organization of officers and soldiers devoting
itself particularly to the undermining of discipline. The War-
saw branch of the Ochrana, after much arduous labour, was
Page 210
Page 210
182
THE OCHRANA
able to reveal the threads of this conspiracy and to lay some
of the plotters by the heels. For a certain time after that it
looked as though the ferment had died down in the Army.
It was not till the World War came that the military au-
thorities realized clearly on what a slender basis of truth that
optimistic assumption of theirs had rested.
It was in r911 that my duty first brought me into touch
with the group of extremists that was afterward to play an
important part in carrying through the Revolution. These were
the emissaries of the Bolshevik School of Capri, and I was
then entrusted with the task of keeping them under observa-
tion. Maxim Gorky, along with A. N. Pyeshkov, had founded
in the island of Capri a sort of revolutionary training college,
on the teaching staff of which were, among others, Lunat-
sharsky and Alexander Kollontay. The Bolshevik party lead-
ers sent there regularly some dozens of young people to master
the art of political agitation, and, at the same time, to learn
how to handle revolvers and bombs.
In the Police Department our confidential agents kept us
informed of the existence and activities of this unique institute,
but, of course, we could do nothing as long as the individuals
involved remained abroad. But whenever the graduates from
this bombing school endeavoured to get into Russia, they
were arrested at the frontier, and my business was to examine
the arrested persons in Petersburg.
One of those who attended Gorky’s school was a workman
named Gusakov, who had the appearance of a cretin and a
criminal. Another was a good-natured fellow of genuine
Russian disposition, who lived in Italy and was obviously suf-
fering very seriously from home-sickness. He had become
quite convinced, so he told me, of the hopelessness of the Uto-
pian ideas with which they had tried to inoculate him, and
during the course of a few days he readily supplied me with
Page 211
Page 211
THE OCHRANA
183
particulars of the methods of instruction employed in Capri.
I was especially interested by what he had to say of the way
it was always impressed upon young revolutionaries that they
must cultivate a severe, self-denying, Communistic mode of
life. My informant confessed to me that he had felt most deeply
and painfully the contrast between those teachings and the
comfort, not to say luxury, with which the ‘Professors’ in
Capri had surrounded themselves.
After repeated discussions that took place at the time between
the Public Prosecutor and the Police it was decided that no
legal measures could be adopted against the arrested persons,
as they had not committed any punishable offence on Russian
territory. We therefore were restricted to adopting the process
of administrative banishment, and to condemning the Bol-
shevik leaders whom we managed to secure to a few years
of exile in Siberia.
When the War broke out I was second in command of the
Political Section of the Police Department. At that time it
seemed at first as if, from the moment the mobilization began,
all party strife, including the activity of the revolutionaries,
had ceased. During the early days of the War the patriotic
fervour was so great in all sections of the population that the
propaganda of the various Socialist groups not merely failed
to awaken a response among the masses, but actually appeared
to call forth a reaction.
Considering the patriotic enthusiasm general throughout
Russia, the Socialists determined to suspend for the time being
their agitation and to support the popular attitude. They
marched away waving the national flag like the others, osten-
sibly to defend Russia from the enemy; in reality they had
set before them quite another goal. They hoped by using pa-
triotic shibboleths, or under cover of this or the other military
service, to make their way to the Front, and once there, in the
Page 212
Page 212
184
THE OCHRANA
very midst of the troops in the trenches, to find better oppor-
tunities than ever before of pushing their pernicious and dis-
loyal propaganda. And while they were operating among the
fighting units, they aimed also at inciting to mutiny the men
of the transport services, the wounded in hospitals, and the
workmen in the factories.
As later events have shown, these calculations on the part
of the destroyers of Russia were by no means without prac-
tical basis in fact. As time went on the revolutionary agitators
did really succeed in undermining with their lying catch-
words the morale of whole bodies of troops, especially of young
classes who had recently been called to the colours and were in
no sense inured to the military spirit. And by achieving that
they created beforehand the conditions necessary to ensure the
success of the Revolution.
Typical of the manner of this ‘patriotic action’ taken by the
revolutionaries was the speech delivered by the leader of the
Revolutionary Socialists, Tshernov, in the first and last sitting
of the so-called Constituent National Assembly. By that time
the Revolution had already gained the upper hand, and con-
sequently there was no longer any reason for dissimulation,
so Tshernov thought it incumbent upon him to stress par-
ticularly his anti-patriotic attitude during the War and to boast
of his efforts to prevent the victory of the Russian armies.
Of course a very important part in organizing the anti-
militarist propaganda was taken by Lenin, the leader of the
Bolsheviks, whose real name was Vladimir Ulyanov, and who
had already been in conflict with the authorities several times.
In the year 1912 Lenin had preferred to quit Russia and betake
himself to Austrian Galicia, where he settled in the neigh-
bourhood of Cracow. From there he directed the actions of his
comrades who had remained in Russia.
After the outbreak of war the heads of the Austrian Gen-
Page 213
Page 213
SCHLUSSELBURG
ForTRESS
Used
as
a
Prison State
for
Revolutionaries
Page 214
Page 214
CouRTYARDS
IN
THE
ForTRESS OF SCHLUSSELBURG
Where political prisoners were allowed
to have their daily exer cise
Page 215
Page 215
THE OCHRANA
185
darmerie had him arrested, but the President of the Council,
Count Stirgkh, recognized at once that Lenin might do much
more good than harm to the German-Austrian cause, and
therefore ordered his release. Thereafter Lenin entered into ne-
gotiations with the German Government, the intermediary
being a Jew named Helfmann. In consideration of generous
financial reward, Lenin undertook to foment disorder and
strikes, and, in general, to prevent by any and every means the
success of the Russian armies.
Lenin’s general instructions were then at once published in
the forbidden Press in Russia, and thenceforth the Socialists
united their forces, concentrating all their efforts on making
a Russian victory impossible. The War was now decried as
an Imperialist adventure, and the order of the day was that
Socialists of all nations should strive to bring it to as speedy
an end as possible, and work for the World Revolution that
was to follow. These principles were later on confirmed in due
form at the famous Zimmerwald Conference.
Not very long after the War broke out a secret meeting of
leaders of all the Russian Socialist organizations was to take
place, with the object of deciding upon one coherent revo-
lutionary plan of campaign. The Police Department had
learned that such a deliberative council was being prepared,
and all the individuals who were to take part in it, so far as
we knew, were kept under most careful observation. Despite
all our efforts, however, we did not succeed in finding the date
and place of the projected sitting.
Early one morning General P. K. Popov, the Chief of the
Defensive Section, came to me very crestfallen and disap-
pointed, and announced that his agents had lost sight of all
the persons who were being shadowed, for the latter had left
their homes at a very early hour before the arrival of the police
officials. From this fact Popov made the logical deduction that
Page 216
Page 216
186
THE OCHRANA
that was the day on which the conference was to take place,
without our knowing where it was being held.
After the lapse of an hour I got word from the Chief of
the Moscow Ochrana that one of his secret assistants had re-
ceived, the evening before, an invitation to be present at the
meeting in question. Immediately I rang up General Popov,
passing on the message I had just received from Moscow. He
at once detailed a patrol for duty, hurried to the locality in-
dicated to us, arrested the whole company, and seized the docu-
ments and minutes.
An ordinary workman had placed his house at the disposal
of the conspirators. When General Popov suddenly appeared
with his people, the man explained quite coolly that a few
guests had come together to celebrate his birthday. Naturally
General Popov did not allow himself to be hoodwinked by
any such pretext. The affair was handed over to the judicial
authorities and all those arrested were exiled to Siberia, where
they remained until they were brought back in triumph after
the Revolution.
The subsequent activities of the disloyal agitators are in-
separably associated with the person of Gutshkov, member
of the Duma. This man’s plotting and scheming more than
aught else led to the success of the Revolution, and that is
why, not merely by me but by all patriots who love the Rus-
sian Empire, the name of Gutshkov is and always will be ut-
terly detested.
During the war years I frequently had occasion to have
Gutshkov watched by my agents, and, judging by the reports
that came in to me, I became more and more convinced that
the man I was dealing with was an adventurer, a self-seeker,
and a traitor. Supplementary information which I obtained
afterward from refugees abroad has tended only to confirm
and intensify my first impression. The goal he strove by all
7a e
Page 217
Page 217
THE OCHRANA
187
possible means to attain was not, as might have been sug-
gested, the welfare of Russia, but rather all the time only his
own personal advantage. Even when, as far back as 1900, he
took part in the Boer War in South Africa, that had been noth-
ing more than an attempt to advertize himself in the public
Press; all he cared for was that, day in day out, at home and
abroad, the newspapers should talk of Aim.
And in that way he did succeed in keeping his name before
the public. This proved to be to his advantage when, shortly
after, he began to take a prominent part in the social activities,
which at that time had become fashionable among our intel-
lectuals. As in all mass movements it is never ability, but
always merely insolence and cheek that count, it was not long
before Gutshkov was elected by his friends to the Duma. In
this body he soon drew attention to himself as leader of the
Octobrist* Party, and he even managed to establish certain
relations with the Prime Minister, Stolypin, who for a time
sought the support of that group. Like every adventurer,
Gutshkov plunged head over heels into any kind of officious
activity, and thereby secured his election as President (Speaker)
of the Duma.
But Stolypin was much too shrewd not to see through
Gutshkov before very long. He recognized how unreliable
and suspicious a character he was, and soon withdrew from
association with him. Gutshkov was not able to maintain him-
self for very long in the position of President of the Duma;
he was obliged to renounce this influential position, on the
pretext of having to undertake a very urgent excursion to the
Far East. That brought his parliamentary career to an inglori-
ous close, at least for some considerable time. It did not, how-
ever, oblige him to interrupt his active participation
in
4So called because the basis of its programme was the manifesto of October 17,
1905.
It ultimately became rather reactionary—TRaNnsLaTor.
Page 218
Page 218
188
THE OCHRANA
intrigue; and it was at that very time that he established
friendly relations with Polivanov, afterward Minister of War,
with whom he thenceforth worked hand in hand for the de-
struction of Russia.
Gutshkov, the upstart and adventurer, had the audacity to
describe himself publicly as the personal enemy of the Tsar.
The fact is that, at a reception given to the members of the
Duma, His Majesty had once asked him whether he was the
representative of the city or of the government of Moscow;
and the circumstance that the Emperor was so poorly in-
formed as to his personality had most deeply offended Gutsh-
kov who, as has been indicated, was
a very vain man.
Whenever, after that, the Tsar was mentioned in his hearing,
Gutshkov was impudent enough to make use of low and in-
sulting expressions; and as far back as 1915 he is said to have
announced, “If I do not die beforehand, I shall arrest the
Tsar myself!”
And it was indeed ordained by an inscrutable fate that the
offended vanity of that man should receive its highest satisfac-
tion, for Gutshkov was actually one of the two members of
the Duma to whom was entrusted the disgraceful task of inti-
mating to the Tsar that he would have to abdicate.
It was as early as 1909 that the course of my official duties
brought me into contact with Gutshkov, and on that occasion
I was able to send him about his business in a manner befit-
ting the man. The Ochrana had at the time arrested two sisters
named Yoffe, one of whom was librarian to a district group of
Socialists. The search of the library premises made by the
Police brought to light some revolutionary pamphlets and a
manuscript catalogue of them. On closer investigation I was
satisfied that one of the two Mlles Yoffe had entered all the
titles of these pamphlets in her own hand into the catalogue.
When she was cross-examined, the woman also admitted, al-
Page 219
Page 219
THE OCHRANA
189
most at once, that she had received a parcel of revolutionary
books from a person whose name she would not mention; and
she refused to make any further confession. On the strength
of the material evidence to hand and of her avowal I passed
the affair over to the Public Prosecutor, and released the other
Mlle Yoffe.
When things had reached this stage, Gutshkov unexpectedly
called upon me and announced in a high and mighty tone that
he had come on behalf of the Yoffe family, that he protested
against the arrest of the two ladies, as they had had no con-
nexion with any political affairs whatever. Evidently it was
again a deliberate piece of provocation staged by the Ochrana,
and he thought the conduct of the Police strange in the high-
est degree.
“What is there strange in all this?” I replied coldly. “Are
you aware that Mlle Yoffe here, in this office, has herself ad-
mitted that the forbidden books found in her possession were
taken over by her and were entered by her in her own hand
in the catalogue?” Gutshkov could not fail to see that this
time his attempt to play the part of influential patron and
protector was not succeeding as he had hoped. With a few
words of apology he withdrew like a whipped dog. One month
later the court pronounced sentence upon Mlle Yofte; she was
condemned to one year’s confinement in a fortress.
During the years that followed Gutshkov was not much in
the limelight, until the outbreak of the War at last gave him
the long-looked-for opportunity to crown his deadly work and
to hurl Russia into the chaos of the Revolution. It was now
that he had the immense satisfaction of personally receiving
the Tsar’s abdication, and after he had entered the Revolu-
tionary Government, he at once promulgated the shameless
Order No. I, by which the Russian Army was shaken to its
foundation and utterly demoralized.
Page 220
Page 220
190
THE OCHRANA
This unprecedented document ordained what amounted, as
far as the officers were concerned, to the complete depriva-
tion of their rights, for it practically denied them all dis-
ciplinary powers. Soldiers were no longer required to salute,
and the whole army became in all respects the plaything of
the newly introduced Soldiers’ Councils. The disastrous effects
of that decree are known only too well; the condition in which
our poor country lies to-day affords overwhelming testimony
to the activities of the traitor Gutshkov. The patriotic Rus-
sian officers still living who have remained loyal to the Im-
perial cause will never forgive Gutshkov for his Order No. I.
And for that reason, even among the refugees from Russia,
many ex-soldiers have considered it their duty to bring this
man to account. I can understand very well indeed the feel-
ings of young Ensign Shabelsky-Bork, who challenged Gutsh-
kov to a duel in Berlin. Unfortunately this encounter was pre-
vented by the very superfluous exertions of various persons;
senior officers forbade the ensign I have named to fight with
Gutshkov. Thereupon another ensign, named Taboritsky,
shouted out so that all might hear him that in future he would
refuse to recognize Gutshkoy. The latter pocketed without a
word this insult from the officer who, though he was a young
man, had the courage of his convictions. But that was not the
end of the affair. Two years after, Taboritsky happened to
run across Gutshkov in the Berlin Underground and gave him
a sound drubbing. To the passengers who witnessed the scene
he explained that the man he was chastising had brought
Russia to ruin, whereupon the patriotic Germans applauded
him heartily.
Page 221
Page 221
A.
GursHKoy,
War
MInisTER
UNDER
JERZHINSKY
as
a
Convict
THE
PROVISIONAL
GOVERNMENT
page See
275
Page 222
Page 222
TOAVd
GNV
YALA
AO
SSAULAOT
Page 223
Page 223
CHAPTER XV
My Appointment as Chief of the Police—Conversations with Proto-
popov, Minister of the Interior—Varied Impressions made upon me by
Members of the Government—How Protopopov became Minister of the
Interior—Jealousy of Certain Members of the Duma—Intrigue against
General Kurlov—Reform of the Ochrana—Audience of the Tsarina—
Machinations of Milyukov and Rodzyanko—Vileness of the Press
N THE autumn of the year 1916 a series of significant
changes were made in the Government and, in close asso-
ciation with these, my promotion to the headship of the Po-
lice Department took place. This increase in rank I owe, above
all, to the kindly intervention of General Kurlov, who proved
to me again on this occasion the sincerity of the friendship
he felt for me.
On September 13 Kurloy called upon me and informed me
that the Tsar had just appointed the Vice-President of the
Duma, Protopopov, to be Minister of the Interior. Now, as I
have already mentioned, it was the custom in Russia that
each Minister of the Interior, on his accession to office, should
make a fresh appointment to the position of Chief of Police,
filling that important post with a man in the full enjoyment
of his personal confidence. So Protopopov, immediately after
his audience with the Emperor, had asked General Kurlov for
his advice as to the likeliest person to consider for the headship
of the Police Department, and Kurlov had proposed my name.
A few days later Protopopov invited me to dinner, and in
the course of a long interview gave me an opportunity of
expressing my views upon various questions concerning Home
Affairs and upon the general political situation. Later this
conversation was reproduced in a mutilated and distorted
shape in an anti-Government pamphlet; you may be sure that
the actual course of it was really very different from the form
IOI
Page 224
Page 224
192
'
THE OCHRANA
given to it by the agitators. Protopopov dismissed me without
making any definite promise, so that for a short time I did
not know whether I could count upon my being appointed.
On October 1 the Minister, who had returned the same
morning from G.H.Q., summoned me again and handed to
me a lengthy document containing the command of His
Majesty appointing me expressly to the control of the Police
Department. Protopopov inquired what I proposed to begin
with in my new sphere of activity. I then expounded in detail
my immediate intentions, which were especially concerned
with the internal reorganization of the administrative ma-
chinery of the Police; and I had the impression that my sug-
gestions had Protopopov’s complete approval. To conclude, I
observed that I had up till then always fulfilled my duty ac-
cording to my conscience, the best of my ability, and the state
of the law, and that I should continue in future to do the
same. “I should like to assure you at once,” I added, “that I
shall never do anything behind your back, that I shall rather
keep you constantly informed of all I am doing, that I shall
always consult you and submit to your instructions.”
This assurance was not just such a matter of course as the
reader might perhaps think, for it had sometimes happened
that the official in charge of the Police had ignored the Min-
ister, and had acted independently of him, nay, even in oppo-
sition to him. In my talk with Protopopov I had in my mind
especially the behaviour of my predecessor Klimovitsh, who
had at every turn treated Stiirmer, the President of the Council
of Ministers, in the most cavalier fashion. In Stiirmer’s recep-
tion-room Klimovitsh had spoken in a loud tone, audible to
all, in criticism of the Prime Minister’s measures. More than
that, he had actually gone so far as to arrest, on his own re-
sponsibility and over the head of the Minister, the latter’s
private secretary, Manassyevitsh-Manuilov. Under the circum-
Page 225
Page 225
THE OCHRANA
193
stances, therefore, there was some point in my spontaneously
assuring Protopopov of my complete devotion and loyalty. And
the Minister did not fail to put a proper value upon my assur-
ance; he embraced and blessed me, and then invited me to
enter upon my duties that same day. In accordance with an
ancient custom, this involved, first of all, my paying calls upon
the members of the Government.
The best impression was made upon me by the Ministers
A. F. Trepov and N. M. Pokrovsky, undoubtedly both shrewd
men of solid character. I liked very much too Admiral I. K.
Grigorovitsh, who was in charge at the Admiralty. In con-
versing with him I must say I quickly felt that it was very
much against his will to hear anything about revolutionary
propaganda in the Fleet. However, I told him I should at
once communicate to him very frankly whatever information
on the matter came to my knowledge.
In contrast to the three members of the Government I have
named, the Minister of War, Shuvayev, made a perfectly
deplorable impression upon me. In talking with me, he em-
phasized quite unnecessarily the fact that he was of plebeian
descent, and knew how to appeal to the people, as he had
shown a few days before in a Petersburg factory. While he
himself was convinced of the splendid effect produced by that
speech, I knew from the reports of my agents that the appear-
ance of the Minister had not merely not confirmed peace in
that factory, but that, on the contrary, it had given rise to
new difficulties in the establishment of order.
Nor did my visit to Count Ignatiyev, the Under-Secretary
for Education, afford me any satisfaction whatever. I received
the impression that this Department was being worked on de-
cidedly Liberal lines, and by no means in the patriotic way
that it should have been.
At the time of Protopopov’s appointment to the Ministry
Page 226
Page 226
194
THE OCHRANA
of the Interior such a vast deal of nonsense was current that
I should like to say a few words by way of correcting errors
and slanders that have gained a wide publicity. One particular
assertion was made repeatedly: that Rasputin had exercised
the chief influence in bringing about the appointment, and
that it was only due to his intervention and his appeal to the
Tsarina that the Tsar had agreed to it. In reality things hap-
pened quite otherwise.
Protopopov had been for some time Vice-President of the
Imperial Duma, and in this capacity he had, by his outstand-
ing qualities, especially by his exceptional personal amiability,
won many friends. When the suggestion was made that two
members of the Duma should be sent abroad for the purpose
of making commercial and economic investigations, it was
agreed to entrust Protopopov and Milyukoy with this mis-
sion. After the return of these two Deputies, the Emperor
wished to receive one of them personally, in order that he
might hear from him the results of their inquiry. His choice
fell upon Protopopov.
As I learned afterward, the invitation to this audience was
quite unexpected, and it put Protopopov into a state of the
greatest excitement. Nevertheless he made an excellent im-
pression upon the Tsar, so that, when the Ministry of the
Interior fell vacant shortly afterward, His Majesty resolved
to appoint Protopopov to the post.
What ensued was very characteristic of the spirit that dom-
inated the Duma. Till that moment Protopopov had been gen-
erally esteemed and respected, but his appointment as Minister
suficed to make him in one hour a detested man. General
Kurloy told me how in his presence Protopopov, imme-
diately after returning from the decisive audience, rang up his
friend and colleague Rodzyanko, the President of the Duma,
in order to give him the great news. Protopopov was utterly
Page 227
Page 227
THE OCHRANA
195
taken aback, when Rodzyanko answered him very coldly
he had no time then to talk with him.
The bitter hostility which, from that time onward, was
shown by the Duma toward Protopopov had an extraordinarily
depressing influence upon him, and the changed attitude of
his former friends he could never understand. Once, when
he asked me why he had become so suddenly an object of
detestation in the Duma, I was able to answer him with com-
plete conviction: “Since the Tsar invited you, and not the
ambitious Milyukoy, to report upon your foreign travels,
Milyukoy has been your enemy, and he will do everything in
his power to harm you.”
And, indeed, the Duma never missed an opportunity of dis-
paraging and traducing its former Vice-President, and of plac-
ing difficulties in his way. Thus it was only a short time after
I had entered upon my duties as Head of the Police that I wit-
nessed the disgraceful clamour raised by the Duma against
General Kurlov, mainly because Protopopov wished to have
him as Under-Secretary. The Emperor’s approval of this ap-
pointment had already been obtained, but the enemies of Kur-
lov and Protopopov had managed, by secret intriguing, to pre-
vent the edict in question from being submitted to the Senate
for registration, which, with such Imperial decrees, was obli-
gatory.
This mistake in procedure, which had been deliberately
brought about, served the Duma as a pretext to make General
Kurlov look ridiculous in the public eye, the question being
suddenly raised whether Kurlov had any right to act on behalf
of the Minister of the Interior in submitting departmental re-
ports to the Senate, seeing that the Senate had no official
knowledge of Kurloy’s appointment as Under-Secretary. Ac-
cording to the strict letter of the law this complaint was justi-
fied, but what seems difficult to understand is that no one at
Page 228
Page 228
196
THE OCHRANA
the right time could summon up courage simply to correct
the mistake in procedure. Instead of that being done, the Sen-
ate and the other authorities yielded to the Duma, and returned
to the Police Department all the papers signed by General
Kurlov. Thereupon Protopopov requested the permission of the
Emperor to have the functions of the Under-Secretary trans-
ferred to me. His Majesty graciously approved of this sug-
gestion, whereupon I had all the documents bearing Kurlov’s
signature drawn up again, and signed them myself.
One of the first measures I undertook in my new office con-
sisted in the attempt to carry out certain reforms in the or-
ganization of the Ochrana that had been planned long before.
As was to be anticipated, my measures were to be brought up
in the Duma in the form of an interpellation, and I waited
thereafter from one sitting to another for the opportunity of
personally defending before the House the reforms I had intro-
duced. But over and over again the question bearing upon the
matter was removed from the Orders of the Day. I was cu-
rious to discover the reason for this, and was not long in learn-
ing that the postponement of the debate on this subject had
been brought about by the left wing of the Duma. The truth
is that the Liberals were quite unable to produce any serious
objections to my Police reforms, while it would have gone too
much against the grain to have to give their sanction to any
step taken by the Government, and in order to avoid this
painful necessity, they sought to prevent the irksome Police
debate from taking place at all.
It was quietly conveyed to me at the time that Kerensky
was reported to have stated: “The Ministry has settled the
Police question better than the Duma would have wished.
They have cut the ground from under our feet, and this time
we cannot raise any objections.”
One of the most important questions of the time was the
Page 229
Page 229
THE OCHRANA
197
appointment of a Chief for the City Police in Petersburg. This
post had become vacant through the retirement of Count Obo-
lyensky. When Protopopov broached the matter with me, I
told him very bluntly that, in that responsible position, the only
sort of man who could render effective service was one who
possessed a thorough acquaintance with the Police routine and
who was energetic, hard-working, and absolutely honest. In
this connexion I mentioned Major-General A. P. Balk, the
Assistant to the Chief of Police in Warsaw, and recommended
his nomination. Protopopov took up my suggestion, set about
making the necessary inquiries, had a personal interview with
Major-General Balk, and finally resolved to propose him for
the appointment to the Emperor.
I still remember very well how long Balk hesitated; he was
not sure that he was morally justified in accepting promotion
to so exalted a position, for he had not in the least been ex-
pecting it. He called upon me and submitted to me all his
scruples. At the close of a long talk he actually asked me if I
did really think him competent to fill so responsible an office
to the satisfaction of the Emperor, and whether it was not
rather reckless to fall in with the Minister’s proposal without
his fitness having been properly put to the test.
That was the attitude of persons of eminence under the
old régime when they were offered the prospect of a bril-
liant career! Afterward, it must be admitted, when the Revo-
lution had taken place, with the new men new customs were
also introduced into Russia: then it became a matter of indif-
ference to those who had the power whether they were to go
to one Department or another, the Admiralty or the Min-
istry of Agriculture; it was all the same, provided only they
were in a position to rake in money, lots of it.
Major-General Balk, immediately after his appointment,
took an iron grip of the Police in the capital. He saw to every-
Page 230
Page 230
198
*
THE OCHRANA
thing himself and never waited too long before he intervened.
He also bore full responsibility for the provisioning of the city.
All the affairs that came under his purview he settled with
exemplary dispatch and ability, although they must have caused
him many an anxious moment.
His administration earned for him the encomiums of al-
most all. I continually heard the opinion expressed that the
new Chief Constable was a stern, upright man and a chief
familiar with every detail of the Police Service. Only subor-
dinates who had previously been disposed to accept bribes from
the civilians were dissatisfied with his strict instructions, and
consequently passed an adverse judgment on their superior.
Balk’s attitude after the Revolution was also characteristic.
For a good while the Provisional Government kept him under
arrest, and then they wanted to release him; but he declared
that he would not leave prison until it had been proved that
all the officials who had been his subordinates had acted strictly
according to the law.
About a month after my appointment to supreme com-
mand of the Police I had the honour of being received in
audience by the Tsarina.
At the appointed time I appeared
at Tsarskoye Syelo and was shown into a fairly large private
room, where Her Majesty was awaiting me, in the garb of a
hospital nurse. After I had respectfully kissed hands, she in-
vited me to take a seat, and then inquired whether I had
already got quite accustomed to my new sphere of action.
With a smile she observed that, in her view, most officials
busied themselves far too much with papers and documents,
and lost sight the while of the real, living interests of the day.
She thought that one should always watch the events of the
moment, especially in the present difficult times. After all, the
possibility of a revolution had to be taken into account, and
one must know what was to be done in such a case.
Page 231
Page 231
THE OCHRANA
199
I replied that a revolution, as such, was quite impossible
in Russia. There certainly existed among the people a certain
nervous tension due to the prolonged duration of the War
and to the heavy burdens it entailed, but the people trusted
the Tsar and were not thinking of rebellion.
“That is how I feel about it too,” said the Tsarina almost
in a whisper, “and I would fain believe that it is so.”
I proceeded to state that the Government must not, of course,
lose sight of those internal foes who were working with might
and main for the destruction of the Empire, and that, for that
purpose, the active assistance of the Ochrana was required,
for its task was to find out the agitators and to prevent their
treacherous work. I also hinted at my regret that among the
Ministers there did not prevail that perfect unanimity that
was so necessary, and that the Government sometimes came
to decisions that sounded like the echoes of decisions already
arrived at by the Opposition parties in the Duma.
In conclusion, I assured the Empress that the Ministry of
the Interior had taken all necessary steps to make certain that
any possible troubles would be quickly suppressed. I informed
her that plans were already drawn up for the demobilisation
of the Army on the conclusion of the War, the intention being
to disband the infantry units first, while the cavalry, which
was necessary for the maintenance of internal order, would
have to be kept longer under arms.
When I had finished the Empress remained silent for a few
seconds, as if she were turning over in her mind the disposi-
tions I had been detailing, and then, in the most friendly tone,
she wished me complete success in all my undertakings.
Finally she said she had an important request to make: would
I see to it that, at her desire, disabled officers were taken into
the Police Service? This request Her Majesty expressed in the
most considerate and the most modest way. Of course, I issued
Page 232
Page 232
200
“THE OCHRANA
the very next day to all governors of provinces and cities a
circular, in which I brought to their notice the desire of the
Empress, and laid it down that, whenever vacancies occurred,
disabled officers were to be preferred to all other candidates.
My audience had lasted seventeen minutes altogether. The
Tsarina dismissed me most graciously, and once more wished
me all success in the performance of my duties.
On November 1 the Duma began its session, and from now
onward attacks upon the Government came fast and furious.
Within a week the Duma managed to bring about the fall
of Stiirmer, the President of the Council of Ministers. I still
remember how Milyukov appeared on the orator’s platform
to address the House, and asserted that he had in his pocket
irrefutable documentary evidence to convict the President of
the Council of treachery and of assisting the Germans, but
that he intended to submit these documents only to the ju-
dicial authorities. Later developments showed how much of
substance there was in this monstrous accusation. Sturmer died
in bitter torment, while Milyukov is to-day well and hearty,
and suffers no sort of distress; but Milyukov never produced
a single one of these alleged documentary proofs, for the
simple reason that they never existed. Subsequently the Pro-
visional Government appointed a Committee of Inquiry, and
the president of that committee expressly declared to Stiirmer’s
wife that the most careful investigation into the crime of which
the former President of the Council was accused had failed
to reveal any evidence whatever.
After Stirmer’s dismissal the Duma continued its attacks,
and every day another high official was accused of treachery or
espionage; not even the person of the Tsarina was spared by
this shameless agitation. In such wise did Gutshkoy, Milyukoy,
Polivanov, and company systematically prepare the way for
the catastrophe.
Page 233
Page 233
THE OCHRANA
201
In succession to Stiirmer, A. F. Trepov had been appointed,
but he too had to look on helplessly while the Duma con-
tinued its baiting and intrigue. Milyukov enjoyed the special
patronage of Buchanan, the English Ambassador, and often
actually spent his nights in the British Embassy. If the For-
eign Office in London should ever allow the publication of
its archives, the event will, I dare say, probably shed a new and
not especially creditable light on Milyukov’s ‘patriotism.’
The same agents who informed me of Milyukov’s visits to
the British Ambassador also reported to me his appearance
in a secret meeting of the Cadet* Party, of which he was the
leader. There Milyukov uttered very serious warning of the
dangers of revolution, declaring that, if the peasants were
promised land to-day, the promise would have to be kept to-
morrow, and that that would involve a revolution the end
of which no man could foresee. On that occasion he made use
of the expression that to make such promises to the peasants
was, so to speak, waving a red rag under the nose of a wild
bull. Nevertheless Milyukov continued his pernicious action
and obliged Rodzyanko, the President of the Duma, to re-
produce all his phrases like a gramophone. Acting as a catspaw
for Milyukov, Rodzyanko in those days did his utmost to get
into touch with the Association of the Nobility, and draw
them into a conspiracy directed against the Tsar. The negotia-
tions which he carried on at that time with Bazilyevsky, the
President of the Moscow Association of Nobility, with Somov,
who occupied a similar position in Petersburg, and with
Samarin, the Marshal of the Nobility, can hardly be charac-
terized as anything else than high treason.
1This was up to the time of the Revolution the group that might have been
called Constitutional Monarchists, and after the Revolution, Bourgeois Republicans.
Their Russian name was Konstitutsionalisty-Demokraty, the initials of which name,
Ka-De, make approximately the French word cadet, afterward current with the
t heard as in English.—TRaNsLaTor.
Page 234
Page 234
202
THE OCHRANA
Without any justification in fact, Milyukov suddenly feared
for his life, affirming that the right wing of the Radical Party
was planning an attempt upon it; he requested me to have
him protected by secret agents. Although, when the matter
was thoroughly inquired into, these fears proved to be ground-
less, I did, all the same, place at his disposal a few officials
attached to the Ochrana, who never let him out of their sight.
Now, as ever since his appointment the principal object
of all attack was the unfortunate Protopopov. Although posi-
tively not a single failure was brought home to the Minister
of the Interior, the hue and cry was kept up without inter-
mission; no one, they declared, could work with Protopopov.
Even his immediate subordinates left him shamefully in the
lurch: both his Assistant-Secretaries, Volkonsky and Balts,
quite openly spoke against their superior, and yet, if they
were not in agreement with the Minister’s views, it would
have been their obvious duty simply to give up their offices.
They did not do that, and so I was not astonished when Balts,
who, in the year 1906 as Public Prosecutor had represented
the authorities in the charge brought against the Council of
Workmen’s Representatives, took service with the Bolsheviks
in 1918.
Now, it is certainly not to be denied that Protopopov had
little aptitude for the purely bureaucratic ways of settling of-
ficial business that are to a certain extent requisite in every
Government Department. His too active imaginative powers
misled him sometimes into the fault of coming to decisions
in an erratic fashion and of then giving them up again, which,
at times, rather tended to confuse the staff of officials serving
under him. However, there were no grounds at all for speak-
ing of Protopopoy’s “incapacity.” He might have been lacking
in his attention to business routine and in his conduct of de-
partmental affairs, but, on the other hand, he possessed vision
Page 235
Page 235
Protopopoy,
Last
MINISTER
OF
THE
INTERIOR
UNDER
THE
Tsar
Mityuxoy,
MuInistER ForreicN
UNDER
THE
First
RevotutTionary
GovERNMENT
Page 236
Page 236
AONUAHS J,
VWOC FHL tO LNAGISAU ‘OANVAZGOY
Page 237
Page 237
THE OCHRAN A
203
in a far higher degree than many of his colleagues in office,
and was, above all, a personality of incorruptible uprightness
and candour.
In the noisy agitation against him a peculiarly active part
was taken by the Press of the various shades of extreme Radi-
calism; and, unfortunately, the Minister, being the high-
minded man he was, would not condescend to put a stop to
this disgraceful campaign by simply suppressing the news-
papers in question. Such a proceeding appeared to him to be
beneath his dignity, and he persistently rejected every pro-
posal to adopt such a policy. At this time there appeared in
a paper, which Protopopov had once very actively assisted to
bring into being an article consisting of utterly meaningless
and disconnected words. Only on closer inspection did the
fact emerge that the initial letters of all these words when put
together composed a scurrilous and insulting attack upon
Protopopov.
To begin with, I often used to wonder at the equanimity
with which the Minister accepted all these offensive and sense-
less attacks. Soon, however, I recognized that it was only on
the surface that he preserved this apparent calm, for in private
conversation he would often lay bare the bitter inward strug-
gle that was going on. As a convinced Monarchist he did not
wish to quit his post without the express permission of the
Tsar, but at the same time he did not know how to convey
clearly to the Tsar what was the real reason why he, and no
one else, should be made the object of such general and bitter
hatred.
Protopopov was, as I have already pointed out, a perfectly
honest man of chivalrous character, who did not know the
meaning of personal ambition and who was anxious to serve
his Emperor to the best of his knowledge and ability. Per-
haps nothing testifies so clearly to his unselfishness as the cir-
Page 238
Page 238
204
THE OCHRANA
cumstance that, out of his own income, he had fifty thousand
roubles divided among the civil servants in his own Depart-
ment, who were feeling the pinch in those hard times.
But the campaign carried on against him finally assumed
such forms that even Trepov, the new President of the Coun-
cil, and otherwise so dignified and correct in his attitude,
began to avoid Protopopov, and made it more and more ob-
vious how glad he would be to have another Minister of the
Interior in his Cabinet. Apparently Trepov hoped, by sacri-
ficing Protopopoy, to appease the ill-will of the Duma. About
Christmas of 1916 Protopopov at last decided to present his
position clearly to the Tsar and to ask for his dismissal. The
Emperor listened sympathetically to what he had to say, and
finally advised him, in the meantime, to take a brief leave
of absence. He hoped, and hoped in vain, that after a little
time had elapsed the general excitement would have died
down.
Page 239
Page 239
CHAPTER XVI
Disintegration of the Army at the Front—Absurd Rumours among the
Troops—Gutshkov’s “Workmen's Group” arrested—A Commission from
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs—Discussions as to the Suppression of
Probable
Rebellion—Treacherous
Proceedings
of General Russky—
Watch kept upon Correspondence between Duma and G.H.0—Why
Kryzhanovsky did not become Minister of the Interior—Threatening
Excitement in Petersburg—Arrest of Bolshevik Leaders—Last Cabinet
Meeting before the Revolution
N THE autumn of 1916 the Ministry of the Interior was
receiving more and more serious news as to the spirit pre-
vailing in the Army, and especially among the Army Service
Corps on the Southern Front. The staff of officers had been ab-
solutely decimated by the long-drawn-out and extraordinarily
sanguinary fighting, and in consequence younger and younger
reserve officers had stepped into the vacancies left by the sea-
soned regular officers. They, however, had neither the ex-
perience nor the authority necessary
to maintain proper
discipline among the units under their command and to
counter all revolutionary tendencies with the requisite energy.
Further, the younger classes of recruits who, from the sum-
mer of 1916 had been sent to the Front, proved to be insuf-
ficiently trained and very unreliable as to their morale. In
these circumstances the pacifist agitation, aiming at a speedy
conclusion of the War, was continually gaining ground. Al-
ready there had occurred gross cases of refusal to obey orders,
especially in battalions fighting on the Rumanian Front. These
incidents pointed very plainly to the parlous condition of
military discipline in many units.
It seemed to me that it was high time to inquire very care-
fully into the causes of the demoralization among the troops,
and to find out the identity of the agitators under whose in-
205
Page 240
Page 240
206
THE OCHRANA
fluence the soldiers had lost their faith in the possibility of
ending the War by an early victory. For this purpose I sent
to the Southern war zone Lieutenant-Colonel of Gendarmes,
A. P. Kubitsky-Petuch, a steady, trustworthy officer. The in-
formation which Kubitsky submitted to me on his return had
the most discouraging effect upon my mind. According to his
statement, it was throughout the Army the subject of common
talk that the Tsarina was a traitor in alliance with the Ger-
mans, and was trying to bring about the defeat of Russia.
That being so, the soldiers thought it was no wonder that the
Russian Army should suffer one reverse after another.
I considered it my duty to bring this grave report to the
notice of the Minister of the Interior, who laid it before the
Tsar himself. The monarch read through the document, waved
his hand in hopeless resignation, and never said another word
about the matter.
About that time Gutshkov founded in Petersburg a Work-
men’s Group in the War Trade Committee, without anyone’s
having an idea of the purpose this group was intended to
serve. It turned out that it was evolving the most amazing
schemes for completely changing the whole body of social
legislation, and soon it was beyond possibility of doubt that,
under cover of a patriotic organization working for a Russian
victory, Gutshkov had simply founded a revolutionary fighting
group destined to form a tool for his treasonable aspirations.
By dint of keeping them under observation for some time, I
was able to acquire sufficient evidence; and getting into com-
munication with the Commander of the City Police, I ordered
the arrest, without more ceremony and on the grounds of an-
tipatriotic intrigue, of the whole of this Workmen’s Group.
Of course Gutshkov immediately rushed from one authority
to another trying to obtain the release of his collaborators.
The damnatory evidence which was available against this
Page 241
Page 241
THE OCHRANA
207
group was, however, so plentiful that I insisted upon handing
over the affair at once to the appropriate tribunal. The in-
formation I had collected in this case I owed in the main to a
secret agent named Ambrozilov, whom the Provisional Goy-
ernment subsequently exiled to Siberia, apparently in revenge.
Not long after this I was summoned to attend N. N. Po-
krovsky, the Foreign Minister, who gave me instructions, in
the name of the President of the Council, to organize an
intelligence service for the special purpose of acquiring precise
information as to the economic situation and the spirit of the
people in Germany. The sums necessary for this enterprise,
the Minister explained to me, would be paid out of a special
fund. Pokrovsky was greatly astonished when I replied that
no money whatever was necessary, for the news service desired
by the Government had already been instituted some consider-
able time before. As a matter of fact, Krassilnikov, the Chief
of the Foreign Branch of the Ochrana, had discovered a very
able agent who had managed to make his way to Germany,
and then kept us regularly supplied with interesting and de-
tailed information about the prevailing spirit and the general
situation in the German Empire. This evidence had up till
that time been collected in the Police Department, and was
now at once laid before the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
The disquieting news that was coming in to us from all
sides obliged the Minister of the Interior to give his attention
to the counter-measures that would have to be taken to meet
popular disturbances that might arise. To that end the Minis-
ter got into touch with the Commander of the City Police and
the Military Governor. The Governor, General Chabalov,
worked out, in co-operation with a special commission, de-
tailed plans for the combined action of Police, Cossacks, and
other troops with machine-guns. Various plans of operation
Page 242
Page 242
208
THE OCHRANA
were provided for use, according to the extent of the rebel-
lion.
Unfortunately General Chabalov was short-sighted enough
to count upon the absolute trustworthiness of all the troops
garrisoned in Petersburg; he obstinately refused to order out
of the capital all reserve units that had been recently called up,
urging as a pretext that there were no vacant barracks at his
disposal in the neighbourhood of Petersburg. This circum-
stance, along with the strange attitude adopted by General
Russky, contributed mainly to the fatal course that things sub-
sequently followed.
Protopopov thought it his duty to draw the Tsar’s attention
to the ferment in the capital. After consulting Shabalov, the
Emperor then commanded four regiments of Cavalry of the
Guards to be dispatched to Petersburg. A few days passed in
restless expectation, without the troops that had been requisi-
tioned putting in an appearance. Then it turned out that
General Russky, the commander on the Northern Front, had
simply ignored the Tsar’s commands; instead of sending the
Guards regiments, Russky transferred a detachment of seamen
to Petersburg. This behaviour of Russky’s bordered upon open
treason; and already at that time I had serious thoughts about
the striking intimacy
that existed
between
Russky and
Gutshkoy.
Accordingly I had a careful watch kept upon the corre-
spondence between the members of the Duma and the Chief
Command of the Army, and soon I received information that
increased my anxiety in the highest degree. For it appeared
that Gutshkov, Milyukov, and Rodzyanko were quite unmis-
takably working with the object of bringing the whole of the
Chief Command, and, to be precise, Generals Russky and
Alexeyev first of all, over to the side of the Duma. It was not
long before I noticed that the bulk of the correspondence
Page 243
Page 243
THE OCHRANA
209
concerned was not passing through the post, but was being
carried on by the agency of special confidential messengers,
and was therefore not accessible to me. But if I had had noth-
ing to go upon but the scarcely veiled hints in the letters that
I did manage to see, they would have sufficed to afford me
an insight into the treacherous ongoings of the whole com-
pany. It was simply amazing to note the tone adopted by
these people: it was a matter of course with them to speak
of the necessity for “making changes in the State.”
In none of the belligerent States has anything of this kind
happened. Everywhere, even in Germany, all parties were
united in the desire first to bring the War to a victorious
conclusion before they took in hand internal reform. But in
Russia, at the very time when affairs were most critical, people
gave less and less attention to the War, and more and more
to political revolution. And, meanwhile, the blockade had been
bringing Germany close to the brink of collapse, and, conse-
quently, the prospects of an Allied victory seemed very much
nearer.
It is true that in Russia the murder of Rasputin had for a
short time diverted the attention of the Duma from Protopo-
pov, but soon the attacks upon the Minister of the Interior
began again. It has been already pointed out that Trepov
had signified his desire to drop Protopopov, but, as a matter
of fact, Trepov had gone into retirement before his unpopular
colleague, and Prince N. N. Golitsin had taken his place.
The latter repeated the attempt made by Trepov to get rid
of Protopopov. In his efforts to conciliate the Duma as far as
possible, the new President of the Council of Ministers de-
cided upon a somewhat unusual step; he began negotiations
behind Protopopov’s back with S. E. Kryzhanovsky, with a
view to inducing him to take over the Ministry of the Interior.
He could scarcely have made a better choice, for Kryzhanovsky
Page 244
Page 244
210
THE OCHRANA
was a shrewd, energetic, and experienced official, who pos-
sessed a most intimate knowledge of the whole administration.
Things might have developed very differently if Kryzhanovsky
had been placed at the head of the Home Office some months
earlier. But Prince Golitsin was not able to realize his inten-
tion. It is said that the Tsar had no particular liking for
Kryzhanoysky. So things remained as they were until it was
too late.
General Kurlov told me that Kryzhanovsky had made it a
condition that Kurlov should be appointed General Command-
ing the Corps of Gendarmerie. But as Kurlovy was, if possi-
ble, even more detested by the Duma that Protopopov, Prince
Golitsin did not dare to fulfil Kryzhanovsky’s wishes, and
that is perhaps another of the reasons why Kryzhanovsky’s
appointment never took place.
In spite of the threatening excitement in certain classes
of
the population, I am of opinion that the crisis would never
have come just as it did if the Imperial Adjutants-General
Russky and Alexeyev had done their duty. However, instead
of suppressing with a hand of iron all revolutionary mani-
festations in the Army—which could still have been quite
easily done—these two commanders, under the influence of
the Imperial Duma, not only did nothing of the kind, but,
in addition to that dereliction of duty, left the Emperor right
up to the end in the dark as to the real situation. It is signifi-
cant enough that, after the victory of the Revolution was as-
sured, the Tsar expressly stated that he was ready to forgive
all his enemies, but for General Russky he could not bring
himself in his heart to feel any forgiveness.
Later, when the Revolution, for the outbreak of which he
had been greatly responsible, assumed its most catastrophic
form, General Alexeyev tried to repair some of the wrong he
had done, by leading his army against the Bolsheviks. What
Page 245
Page 245
THE OCHRANA
251
this meant in fact, however, was that he drove under the fire
of the Red troops an army consisting of youths, partly unarmed
and without transport, and thereby sacrificed in vain countless
numbers of strong, healthy men.
The most ridiculous and pitiful part was played in those
fateful days by Rodzyanko, the President of the Duma. He
was hypnotized by the attractive prospect of becoming Presi-
dent of the Republic, and behaved himself like a boy who
has undertaken some job without understanding the sense
of his instructions and without having the necessary strength
to carry them out.
In February 1917 the disquieting symptoms indicative of
approaching trouble among the people and especially in the
Army, which till then had been more or less sporadic, became
more frequent and more dangerous. I was now almost con-
tinually receiving reports about petty or serious offences that
had been committed by recently called-up reserve-men be-
longing to the Petersburg garrison. Every day the Police were
arresting military men guilty of picking pockets at the tram-
way stopping-places. The prisoners would then be handed
over to be dealt with by the Army authorities; but as, even
then, the military prisons were marked by the absence of re-
liable supervision and guards, the men would often make their
escape after a short period of confinement, and, after per-
petrating some fresh misdeed, would once more fall into the
hands of the Police.
About that time, too, greater or smaller bands of demon-
strators began to make their appearance in the streets of the
capital, noisily demanding bread. Naturally, whenever these
manifestations assumed serious proportions, they were broken
up as quickly as possible by the Police, but such demonstrations
took place again and again, indeed almost incessantly. Ru-
mours of threatening famine were systematically spread among
Page 246
Page 246
272
THE OCHRAXKNKA
the population, being generally believed and calling forth the
spirit of panic and terror//In order to check this sinister de-
velopment I summoned Balk, the Commander of the City
Police, and requested him to lose no time in determining
what supplies of flour and bread actually existed in the capi-
tal. After consultation with the official in charge of the Food-
control, General Balk assured me that the stocks on hand
were adequate to feed the entire population of Petersburg for
more than three weeks, even if no new deliveries of any sort
were to be made. There was, accordingly, no immediate risk
of starvation.
At my request this state of matters was made known by
means of proclamations detailing the facts, and drawn up
in the clearest possible language so as to be understood by the
people, and this measure had at least a temporary effect in
calming the excitement prevailing in the capital. However,
there were still some hundreds of idlers and vagabonds who
were organized by the agitators into a crowd, and went roar-
ing through the streets.
On February 18 a strike broke out in the Putiloy works;
the management replied to this with a lock-out. The result
was that some thirty thousand men were suddenly deprived
of the means of subsistence, which materially increased the
unrest in the working-class districts. Moreover, the employees
of the Putilov works endeavoured to induce those engaged
in other Petersburg industries to join in a sympathetic strike.
In the Vyborg district workmen’s demonstrations were held,
and the crowd, getting out of hand, were guilty of violence
that could no longer be considered insignificant. Some of the
street cars were stopped and overturned by the mob, a Police
official of some importance was knocked down, and the dem-
onstrators tried to make their way across the Neva into the
Page 247
Page 247
THE OCHRANA
213
centre of the city; they were, however, prevented by mounted
Police.
:
Four days before the outbreak of the Revolution, General
Chabaloy, without previously coming to an understanding
with the Minister of the Interior, proclaimed martial law in
Petersburg. In all Government buildings troops were quar-
tered; the guard assigned to the Police Department was com-
posed of a company of the Pavlovsky Guards Regiment.
4 On February 24 the numbers of the strikers had already
grown to about two hundred thousand, and the Police were
no longer able to keep the crowds from forcing their way
into the central districts, especially as the Ministry had issued
instructions to refrain, as long as ever it was possible, from
the use of firearms. On the other hand, the mob bombarded
the men of the Police force ruthlessly with stones and pieces
of old iron, by which a number of brave policemen were
severely wounded. When the attempt was made to relieve
the Police by employing detachments of Cossacks, a very
serious state of matters was revealed: the Cossacks, who had
once been the terror of a riotous crowd, now actually frater-
nized with the mob and gave not the least sign of taking
serious measures against it. This occurrence was not only a
belated warning for the authorities, but a great encourage-
ment to the revolutionaries, and was therefore at that moment
a peculiarly critical fact.
oe
Till then we had had no hint that the revolutionary parties
had secured the control of this proletarian movement. Now,
however, I instructed General Globatshov, the head of the
Petersburg Ochrana, to make inquiries; and it appeared that
the Socialist organizations had determined to exploit the un-
rest in Petersburg for their own ends, and to prepare by
systematic propaganda for the general strike and for demon-
strations in the streets. On receiving this report from General
Page 248
Page 248
ore
THE OCHRANA
Globatshov, I decided to proceed quickly and to the purpose.
I gave orders to arrest the revolutionary leaders at once, and
General Globatshov managed to capture in a private dwelling
the whole of the Petersburg Committee of the Bolshevik Party,
so that that dangerous organization was for the moment com-
pletely paralyzed.
Unfortunately, Kerensky, of the Revolutionary
Socialist
group, was protected by his immunity as
a member of the
Duma. I had had him watched by some experienced agents
when he was on a journey to Saratov, and they had observed
him in a restaurant handing over certain papers to an in-
dividual, who was at once arrested, and confessed that he had
received from Kerensky the seditious proclamations found
upon him. Thereupon I had applied to the Ministry of Justice
to have Kerensky deprived of his immunity, so that the Police
might lay hold of him. Fate willed it that, a few days later,
Kerensky himself should become Minister of Justice, and in
this capacity should take cognizance of the proposal I had
made to restrict his liberty.
On the evening of February 26 Protopopov came to dine
with me. After we had dispatched our official business, we
chatted for a long time in company with my wife, my brother,
and my friend Gvozdyoy, who was afterward butchered by
the Bolsheviks. The Minister showed his best side that eve-
ning, as a charming companion and gentleman.
At ten o’clock Protopopov left me in order to take part in
a sitting of the Cabinet. After midnight I was myself sum-
moned by telephone to go to Golitsin’s house. There I found
the whole of the Government assembled, and I was asked to
give a detailed report of the present political situation, the
way the revolutionary movement was developing, and the
counter-measures taken by the Police Department. So far as
I was able to do so without documents, I explained at great
Page 249
Page 249
THE OCHRANA
2165
length to the Ministers the ominous relations subsisting be-
tween the Duma and the Chief Command of the Army; I
made some observations
on the revolutionary propaganda
among the reserve units and the transport service; and con-
cluded by affirming that now that I had had the leaders of
the actively seditious organizations arrested, the only body
offering any danger to the maintenance of order was the
Duma.
Protopopov advocated in most urgent terms the dissolution
of the Duma, making special reference to my report, and after
a fairly long debate the Council of Ministers decided to sanc-
tion the proposal of the Minister of the Interior. In view of
the possibility of such a decision being taken, the Tsar had
signed beforehand a decree that was now to be published the
next morning. It ran: “Founding upon paragraph gg of the
Fundamental Law of the State, we order the prorogation of
the Duma from the 26th of February, and command that it
be convoked on a date to be appointed, but not later than the
17th of April 1917.”
The events of the day that had already begun brought it
about that this decree of the Tsar was the last order that he
was to issue concerning the Duma. Who knows whether
things might not have taken a different turn had this edict
been proclaimed a few months before!
Page 250
Page 250
CHAPTER XVII
The Morning of the Revolution—Mutiny and Murder in the Barracks
—The Mob storms the Prisons—The Police Headquarters in Danger—
Criminals destroy Records—The Revolution completely Victorious—
Traitors among the Generals—Gutshkov’s Revenge—The Tsar abdi-
cates—Two Loyal Commanders
T WAS already getting toward three in the morning when
I returned home from the Cabinet meeting in Prince Golit-
sin’s house. The Ministers had all been irritable and at the
same time depressed, obviously suffering under the conscious-
ness of the burden of responsibility weighing upon them, and
their mood had affected me too. Although I was unusually
tired, it was long before I could go to sleep, I was so excited.
I was awakened again at six o’clock by the telephone bell. It
was the Commander of the City Police, Balk, ringing me up to
say that in the barracks of the Volhynian Guards Regiment
a sergeant-major named Kirpitshnikov had shot his superior
officer, Captain Lashkyevitsh, attached to the training section.
The murderer had thereupon vanished, leaving no trace, and
the temper of the regiment in question was very dangerous.
This communication of Balk’s filled me with dismay, for one
could see from it how far the anarchy in the military barracks
had been already carried.
As the crime had been committed within the sphere of the
military authorities, I was not able to take any direct steps
myself, but I tried to get into touch with the Military Gov-
ernor, Chabaloy. All my attempts, however, to speak to him
by telephone were unsuccessful; to all inquiries as to his
whereabouts I never received any but vague and evasive
answers.
Kirpitshnikoy, the sergeant-major before mentioned, after-
216
a
e
Page 251
Page 251
THE OCHRANA
217
ward published his reminiscences abroad, and frankly ac-
knowledged that, once he had done the deed, he had fled from
the barracks, not having even the slightest idea whether, an
hour later, he would have been hailed as a hero or hanged on
a lamp-post. And, indeed, that naive observation was in keep-
ing with the situation at the moment: no one in all Peters-
burg had any notion whatever of how things were going to
develop in the next few hours.
From my window I could see that the streets were ex-
traordinarily busy for the hour of day. Soon military motor-
cars appeared, rushing at breakneck speed in all directions,
and then isolated rifle-shots were heard in the distance.
The telephone bell rang again; it was Balk once more with
another piece of alarming news: Major-General Dobrovolsky,
the commander of the Engineer Guards Battalion, had just
been murdered by his men.
Subsequent events happened with alarming rapidity. After
Captain Lashkyevitsh had been shot, the Volhynian Regiment
had mutinied, the men had driven the other officers out of
the barracks, and the mutineers had marched to the neighbour-
ing barracks
of the Preobrazhensky and the Lithuanian
- Guards Regiments, the men of which had likewise joined the
revolt. In the barracks of the Lithuanians the rebels seized
the arsenal, and now the soldiers, armed with rifles and
machine-guns, raced in motor lorries at frantic speed all over
the town.
A crowd stormed the remand prison and set free all the
prisoners; the same thing happened in quick succession at all
the other prisons in the capital. Police officers in the outlying
quarters of the city were stormed by the mob; the policemen
who did not manage to make their escape in civilian garb
were butchered in the most inhuman fashion and the build-
ings were fired. In the eastern, the Lityeiny, quarter this pil-
Page 252
Page 252
218
THE OCHRANA
laging
of
Police
officers
assumed
particularly
serious
proportions. Soon the news reached me by telephone that the
released criminals had set fire to the records department in
the Petersburg District Court; that meant the destruction of
a great number of precious and irreplaceable documents.
There was no longer any room for doubt as to the extraor-
dinary seriousness of the situation. For some days past, as
has been already indicated, Petersburg had been supposedly
in the hands of the military authorities. But these had shown
their inability to prevent the murdering of officers by mu-
tinous troops, or to suppress the revolt of the rank and file with
an iron hand. It was quite evident that the men had simply
ceased to obey their superiors. This fact received confirma-
‘tion from every successive scrap of news that reached me.
The mutineers were disarming all the officers they could lay
their hands upon; any attempt at resistance was immediately
followed by death. A detachment of Pioneers that had re-
mained loyal and made an attempt to withstand the mutineers
was overpowered, and in the same way the latter succeeded
in storming the Military College in Kirotshnaya Street and
in disarming the inmates. The numbers of the rebels grew
steadily, for the mob from all parts of Petersburg joined them
in countless swarms, so as to make sure that, if there was any
plunder and pillage going, they might not remain empty-
handed.
The bridge that connects the Lityeiny district with the
Vyborg district that lies north of the Neva was defended for
some little time by some plucky Police officers armed with
machine-guns, but in the end the rebels stormed the bridge
and made for the barracks of the Moscow Guards Regiment
situated in the Vyborg quarter. This regiment was still waver-
ing; in particular the training section offered armed resistance
Page 253
Page 253
Prison
oF
THE
OcHRANA
FirED
py
REBELS
Page 254
Page 254
AoLMIpelA Aq pozyureg
SUAANILLAYY AM GALSTMUY STVAANAL)
3
}
a
Page 255
Page 255
THE OCHRANA
219
to the mutineers. Soon, however, the loyal troops were over-
come, whereupon the Moscow Regiment also joined the revolt.
I was thinking of hurrying to the headquarters of the Police
Department with the special purpose of looking up Minister
Protopopoy, who had his residence in the same building, but
at the very moment when I was about to leave the house I was
detained by a messenger who informed me that desperate
machine-gun firing was going on in the Lityeiny Prospekt.
This was the attempt, already referred to, that was made by
the Police to prevent the mutineers from crossing the Lityeiny
Bridge. As I should have had to cross the Lityeiny Prospekt
on my way to the Police headquarters, the messenger im-
plored me not to expose my life uselessly, but rather to stay
at home and wait till things had quietened down again. So
the only thing left for me to do was to establish telephonic
connexion with the office. My secretary informed me that the
service was being carried on as usual, but that, as was very
comprehensible, everyone in the building was in a restless
state of nervous excitement. As I had every reason to fear
an attack by the mob upon the Police headquarters, I gave
orders to have the staff sent home at once.
A very short time after evidence was forthcoming that this
measure had been very justifiable, for my secretary, who was
still faithfully at his post in the office, rang me up again to
report that a howling mob had already forced its way into
the courtyard of the building. I gave instructions that the
books with the addresses of the officials employed in the De-
partment and especially of the secret agents should be burned
at once which fortunately they were able to do just in time.
As I learned later, the ‘liberated people’ searched every flat
in the building, and some of the leaders, who apparently had
very good reason for doing so, took a great deal of trouble
to discover the Criminal Register and to destroy it. All the
Page 256
Page 256
220
- THE OCHRANA
archives of the Special Investigation Branch, with records of
finger-prints, photographs, and other data concerning thieves,
forgers, and murderers, were dragged down into the court-
yard and there solemnly burned. Further, the intruders also
broke open my desk and appropriated twenty-five thousand
roubles of public money, which I had had in my keeping.
From the Police headquarters the crowd invaded the resi-
dence of the Minister, Protopopov, and ransacked it from top
to bottom. According to the statements of eyewitnesses, there
were among the mob women who looked like persons of bet-
ter education; they were wearing Persian cloaks, and were seen
carrying off great bundles of stolen goods from Protopopov’s
home.
I shall not make special mention of numerous inquiries by
telephone which I had to answer in the course of the follow-
ing hours. Above all, I was besieged by the Moscow authorities
with inquiries as to what was really happening in the capital.
I replied to Colonel Martynov, the Head of the Moscow
Ochrana, that a serious mutiny had broken out among the
troops in Petersburg, and that I should send him further in-
formation as opportunity presented itself.
It is characteristic of the general confusion prevailing that
morning that, for quite a time, neither the military authori-
ties nor the mutineers thought of occupying the Telephone
Exchange. Thus it came about that it continued to function
undisturbed, preserving, as it were, strict neutrality, so that
the revolutionary leaders on the one hand and the mem-
bers of the Government on the other were able to maintain
communication by telephone. Gradually, however, it became
more and more difficult to obtain the connexion required, ap-
parently for the simple reason that the girls at the exchange
were, in increasing numbers, thinking it preferable to quit
their posts of duty and to seek refuge from the storm by going
Page 257
Page 257
THE OCHRANA
a
home. Finally even the direct wire to the Imperial Palace
ceased working, and I could not even be put through to the
Commander of the City Police or to the Ochrana.
I was therefore very much surprised when i was suddenly
rung up by Protopopov from the Mariensky Palace. I reported
to kim the entire course of events so far as I was informed, and
added that the Higher Command was apparently quite power-
less, as the troops, the overwhelming majority of them at least,
were making common cause with the revolutionaries.
Thereafter I left my house, accompanied by my wife and
my friend Gvozdyovy. Strictly speaking, I did not myself know
which way I was to turn, although I had with me a passport
for abroad, as well as another passport bearing a name that
was not mine. On the way I thought of calling on my brother,
who was then living in the Astoria Hotel, but on second
thoughts I did not do so, as I foresaw that the hotel would be
attacked, which, indeed, did actually happen. I therefore be-
took myself to the abode of a good friend, an engineer named
A., who lived in the neighbourhood of the hotel mentioned.
There we were hospitably welcomed, but, of course, sleep was
out of the question. In the streets there was the rattle of rifle
and machine-gun fire, motor lorries manned by armed hooli-
gans kept passing incessantly, and we heard the wild shouting
of the disorderly rabble. Under such circumstances we spent
a sleepless night.
It became ever more obvious that meanwhile there was no
possibility of suppressing the revolt. In the whole of the capi-
tal there were only very few military units that remained
aware of their duty, and these were far too weak in numbers
to adopt any active measures against the rebels. General Chaba-
lov had to confine himself, for the time being, to the defence
of the Government quarter of the city.
While I was pursuing my melancholy thoughts, I saw them
Page 258
Page 258
222
- THE OCHRANKA
plundering like vandals the house of Count Fredericks, the
Controller of the Household. And all that was, in the last
resort, the work of General Russky, who had failed to carry
out the Emperor’s commands! With a few reliable regiments
order in Petersburg could have been quite easily maintained;
instead of obeying instructions, the miserable traitor had trans-
ferred a body of seamen to the capital, thus adding fuel to
the flames. With my whole heart and soul I cursed that Gen-
eral, whom the Tsar had pampered and spoiled, showering
upon him tokens of his favour.
At the same time I taxed my memory to ascertain whether
I too, perhaps, had not done things for which I should not
be able to answer to a just judge. But I could not recall a
single illegal action; and even when I went back in my mind
over all the so-called ambiguous cases that had occurred dur-
ing my period of office, I could not but decide that I was in
a position to give a good account of each one, to my own
conscience and before any impartial tribunal.
What was I to do now? Really the most sensible thing
would have been at once to make my escape abroad; the means
to do this, as I have already suggested, were in my possession.
But I regarded it as a dishonourable piece of conduct to
make off, while my Minister and other high Government of-
ficials were helpless in the hands of the rebels.
For two days I remained with A., the engineer, and then
I moved over to the quarters of another acquaintance living
close by. Of course I had to make my way there on foot, for
in those days there were no vehicles of any kind available.
On the way I was accosted by a stranger in an officer’s grey
overcoat. He pointed excitedly to the Fortress of Peter and
Paul, shouting out that he had been confined there for five
months, and, what was more, that the Ochrana alone was
responsible for it. I asked him what offence he had committed,
Page 259
Page 259
THE OCHRANA
222
and he confessed without any more ado that he had em-
bezzled monies belonging to the State, because he had required
funds to keep up a second family he was maintaining un-
known to his wife. According to him, the meanness of the
Ochrana action lay in the fact that the police had caught him,
when he was fleeing the country, quite close to the frontier
between Finland and Sweden. It was, after all, rather annoy-
ing to have spent so much money on that long journey and
then to be arrested in the end. And in conclusion he delivered
for my benefit a long speech, the general effect of which was
that, under the Tsar, his bones might have rotted in prison,
but that the free people had conquered now, and that he was
awaiting the moment when he would be able to take his share
in laying the foundations of a new, free Russia.
After this little episode I reached safely the residence of
my friend I. K., where I spent the following two days. Mean-
while, it became hourly more obvious that the Revolution was
about to gain a complete victory. In the year 1906, at the time
of the Moscow disorders, the Semyonovsky Regiment had
greatly distinguished itself in suppressing the troubles; on
the evening of February 27 that regiment also joined the
revolutionaries, and one more hope of General Chabalov’s
had gone.
The plight of this unhappy officer grew more desperate from
hour to hour. By noon of that day he had had to report with
a heavy heart to the Tsar that it was beyond his power to deal
successfully with the revolt, and he pleaded most urgently for
reliable troops to be sent to reinforce the garrison. In the
course of the afternoon Chabalov then assembled the few
loyal troops left to him upon the square in front of the Win-
ter Palace, to wait there for the arrival of the hoped-for relief.
Active measures against the revolutionaries were out of the
Page 260
Page 260
224
_
THE OCHRANA
question, for the attitude of Chabalov’s men was quite passive,
and we had to be glad that they did not go right over to the
side of the mutineers. During the evening Chabalov decided
to terminate the occupation of the square, as there was reason
to fear that the revolutionary troops meant to bombard it,
and he was anxious to avoid endangering the palace. So the
Imperial forces now abandoned the palace, and withdrew to
the vast building occupied by the Admiralty, situated on the
Neva embankment.
With the following morning there arrived a great body of
well-armed troops, who, at first, were believed to be the re-
lieving forces that had been sent in from the Front. Unfortun-
ately this sudden flicker of hope almost at once gave way to
bitter disappointment when it became known that the new-
comers were soldiers of the Machine-Gun Regiment from
Oranienbaum, who had also mutinied. They had gone over
to the Revolution on the evening of February 27, and had
immediately set off, with their machine-guns, for Petersburg,
where they were now triumphantly welcomed by the other
rebels.
And there was no further sign of the expected loyal troops.
All attempts by G.H.Q. and General Ivanov, who had mean-
time been
appointed
dictator,
to
initiate
counter-action
against the rebellion in Petersburg met with failure. At midday
on February 28 the Peter and Paul Fortress capitulated, so that
its guns now threatened the Admiralty Buildings facing it.
Under these circumstances, and considering the temper of his
own troops, there was no course open to Chabaloy but to
surrender likewise to the revolutionaries. He was secured,
as I heard later, and taken into the Duma building.
On the morning of February 28 the Tsar had left the quar-
ters occupied by the Higher Command to betake himself as
quickly as possible to Tsarskoye Syelo; but in the night his
Page 261
Page 261
aie.
5
ae
oO
eee
THE OCHRAN A
225
special train was stopped and compelled to turn back, for the
news coming to hand of the threatening state of matters pre-
vailing in Petersburg was becoming more and more disquiet-
ing, so that the officer commanding the train, General Voyei-
kov, did not dare to go any nearer to the capital. Instead
of doing that, Voyeikov decided to take the Tsar to Pskov,
the headquarters of the Northern Army, where, in the midst
of his troops, he would at least be assured of personal safety.
In Pskov the base intrigues of Alexeyev and Russky,’ the
two generals who were in sympathy with the Duma, now
began to be revealed in plain colours. Instead of recommend-
ing His Majesty to adopt energetic measures against the Revo-
lution in Petersburg, which, if capably organized, would
certainly even then have had much prospect of success, these
two generals did the very opposite, and by their action con-
tributed very materially to the fall of the Tsardom. For Alexe-
yev telegraphed to the Emperor that the anarchy which was
growing every moment in the country, and especially in the
Army, could be kept in check only by forming a Government
of men enjoying the confidence of the Duma. General Russky,
for his part, submitted this message of Alexeyev’s to the Tsar,
and adjured him to suspend all military action that had been
initiated with a view to crushing the revolt, and to begin
direct negotiations with the members of the Duma. The Em-
peror, in this fateful moment, was good-natured enough to
yield to the advice of the two generals. He actually renounced
the attempt to assert his authority by force of arms, and in
coming to this decision what weighed with him especially
was the desire to avoid all useless bloodshed. He had no sus-
picion that this surrender to rebellion, more than all else,
would plunge Russia into far greater terror and bloodshed
1 Alexeyev was at G.H.Q., and communicated by telegraph with Russky in Pskov.
—TRANSLATOR.
Page 262
Page 262
326
THE OCHRANA
than would have been entailed by energetic suppression of
the Revolution and the subsequent speedy restoration of or-
derly and constitutional conditions.
Then General Alexeyev collected expressions of opinion
from the various army commanders on the question whether
the Tsar should abdicate; and again it was General Russky
who submitted to the Tsar a skilfully compiled selection of
the answers sent in. Under pressure from Russky, the Tsar
did actually make up his mind to intimate by telegraph to
Rodzyanko, the President of the Duma, that he was ready to
agree to abdication. In the telegram sent by His Majesty
to Rodzyanko he stated:
There is no sacrifice that I should not be willing to make for the
salvation and the well-being of our beloved Russia. I am therefore
ready to abdicate in favour of my son under the regency of my brother
Michael Alexandrovitsh. The only condition that I make is that, tll
he reaches his majority, my son shall remain in my care.
On March 2 there appeared in Pskov the two deputies,
Gutshkov and Shulgin, who had undertaken the shameful task
of accepting the deed of abdication. The Tsar received them
at once, and Gutshkov naturally used the opportunity to deliver
a long speech. It is characteristic of the man that, as Shulgin
afterward reported, during the whole interview Gutshkov did
not have the courage to look straight into the eyes of the Tsar,
whom he had betrayed and from whom he was now exacting
vengeance for his injured vanity. His oration he concluded
with the insolent words, “If you wish to consider the matter
a little longer, I shall withdraw meanwhile and await your
decision; but in any case the whole business must be settled
without fail to-night.”
The Tsar behaved as if he had not noticed the effrontery of
the tone, and intimated to Gutshkoy with grave dignity that
he was prepared to abdicate in favour of his brother, the Grand
Page 263
Page 263
THE OCHRANA
ey
Duke Michael. Thereupon he entered the saloon carriage
which was standing near by, and there dictated the final form
of the historical document, which he signed with a firm
hand.
What passed in the mind of the Emperor on that evening
is indicated in his diary. On March 2 His Majesty wrote:
In the morning Russky called and read aloud to me long telegrams
exchanged between him and Rodzyanko. According to the latter’s ac-
count, the state of matters in Petersburg is so grave that, even if a
Government appointed by the Duma takes office, that alone will not
suffice to establish order. They are demanding my abdication. Russky
sent these telegrams to G.H.Q., and Alexeyev passed them on to the
commanders of the armies at the Front. At two o’clock the answers
from all the generals were received, and their purport was that, to save
Russia and to preserve order, I must make up my mind to this step. I
announced that I was ready to agree, whereupon they sent me from
G.H.Q. the draft of a manifesto. In the evening Gutshkov and
Shulgin arrived from Petersburg. I had an interview with them and
handed to them the manifesto with my signature attached. At one
o'clock in the morning I departed from Pskov with a heavy heart.
Treachery, cowardice, and deception are all around me!
And, indeed, the Emperor had been pitifully cheated and
betrayed by the responsible men who surrounded him, for,
as subsequent events have proved, the abdication which His
Majesty was so urgently pressed to sign in no sense helped
to re-establish order; on the contrary, it was really the first
step toward final disaster and ruin.
Only two army leaders, General Count Keller and the Tar-
tar Khan of Nachitshevan, had shown themselves in this dark
hour to be the loyal servants of their Tsar. They were the
only ones who did not advise the Tsar to abdicate, but offered
to place themselves and the forces under their command at
his disposal to suppress the rebels by armed force. May their
names be mentioned here in grateful remembrance!
Page 264
Page 264
CHAPTER XVII
The Difficult Plight of the Imperial Officials—I go to the Duma—My
Arrest—Companions
in Misfortune—A
Disturbed Night—Kerensky
asks Questions—Transference to the Fortress of Peter and Paul—From
Prison Governor to Prisoner—My Quondam Subordinate searches me
—Kerensky as a Comedian—Prison Régime then and now
HE nerve-shattering news of His Majesty’s abdication,
al which was followed immediately by the announcement
that Grand Duke Michael, named by Tsar Nicholas as his
successor, had likewise renounced the throne, brought all the
officials who had served the Imperial régime, and consequently
myself among them, face to face with the difficult question of
the attitude they should adopt toward the duties they had
sworn to carry out. After thinking the matter over for some
time, I reached the conviction that the Tsar’s abdication im-
plied at the same time that all officials were now released
from their oaths and must submit to the new Government.
This appeared to me to follow clearly enough from the word-
ing of the deed of abdication, in which it stated:
In the name of our beloved native land we summon all her loyal
sons to fulfil their sacred duty, to obey the Tsar in this time of great
difficulty and trial, and to assist him, as well as the representatives of
the people, so that the Russian Empire may be guided along the path
of victory, happiness, and glory.
The Grand Duke Michael, again, in his act of renunciation
had summoned all citizens of the Empire to place themselves
at the disposal of the Provisional Government, until the Con-
stituent National Assembly had reached a final decision as
to the future form to be given to the Russian State.
Accordingly I wrote a letter to Rodzyanko, informing him
of my readiness to place my services at the disposal of the
228
i A
Page 265
Page 265
SoLpiers OursipE THE Duma IN MarcH, 1917
Page 266
Page 266
PETLYURA, HETMAN
OF THE UKRAIN
Page 267
Page 267
THE OCHRANA
229
new Government, if it could find employment for them. For,
at that time, I was firmly resolved to co-operate honestly with
the men then in power, however little in other ways I shared
their political views. In my opinion every good Russian was
under an obligation at that critical moment to support the
only authority that existed, and so to prevent the Revolution,
which had now become an accomplished fact, from being
immediately followed by anarchy.
I betook myself, then, with the letter to Rodzyanko in my
pocket, to the Taurian Palace,’ where I knew the Duma was
iN permanent session, an executive committee being entrusted
with the business of the Provisional Government. It had never
occurred to me that this walk was the last I was destined to
make for some time on my own initiative and as a free man.
In front of the Taurian Palace the mutinous soldiers were
thronging in thousands, awaiting the instructions of the newly
appointed Military Commissions of the Duma. From time to
time a non-commissioned officer would appear, rushing out of
the building, looking very excited and shouting to the ex-
pectant crowd that any man willing to join in the occupation
of this or that railway station or Government office was to re-
port at once! Then a few dozen men would gather round the
‘group-leader’ in question, and hurry off with him in one
direction or another. All this gave me the impression of abso-
lute chaos, and I could not forbear from indulging in a smile
of pity as I observed the primitive methods adopted by the
revolutionary
Government
in
executing
its
strategical
measures.
After watching these proceedings for some time I overcame
my reluctance and made my way as best I could through the
densely packed crowd, who eyed me suspiciously, and arrived
at the entrance to the vast building. At the gate some ragged
*Tavritshesky Palace—TRANSLATOR.
Page 268
Page 268
230
- THE OCHRANA
and obviously tipsy soldiers of the Preobrazhensky Regiment
were on guard, and asked me roughly what I wanted there.
When I explained to them that I wished to speak to the Presi-
dent, Rodzyanko, I was allowed to pass in. After taking a
very few steps I was stopped by a reserve officer, who had
torn off the badge from his cap and who looked as if he
might be a member of the Liberal Intelligentsia. He asked
me my name. When I gave it, he twisted his face into a grin
of triumphant malice and, “in the name of the people,” de-
clared me under arrest.
A few soldiers whom he summoned
seized my person, rummaged my pockets, and then dragged
me away to what had been the retiring room of the President
of the Council, where I found quite a number of companions
in misfortune. In the corners of the room were posted four
guardsmen with loaded rifles, who kept an eye on every move
made by the prisoners.
Then it dawned on me that, instead of making sure betimes
of my safety by coming to the Duma, I had simply walked
into the trap. For, meanwhile, Kerensky had issued the in-
struction that all Ministers and higher officials of the fallen
Government were to be secured and interned in the Duma
building. The first to be arrested was Shtsheglovitoy, the for-
mer Minister of Justice and afterward President of the Im-
perial Council. He had been followed soon after by Stiirmer
and Goremykin, both one-time Presidents of the Council of
Ministers, by the former Minister of the Interior, Maklakov,
by my friend General Kurlov, by General Suchomlinov, and
by Archbishop Pityirim. These and many other exalted digni-
taries of the State had fallen into the hands of the revolu-
tionaries.
Protopopov too had presented himself of his own accord
to the Duma on the night of February 28, making use on the
occasion of these simple words, so characteristic of his honest
Page 269
Page 269
«
THE OCHRANA
231
patriotism, “I am Protopopov, Minister of the Interior. As I
care only for the well-being of our land, I place myself volun-
tarily at the disposal of the Duma.” Of course he was at once
arrested by his triumphant enemies.
Thus all of us who had for many years past been working
together to maintain public order and obedience to the law in
Russia, now met again as prisoners in the committee rooms
of the Duma. Certainly we had meanwhile no opportunity of
exchanging sentiments and opinions, for we were strictly for-
bidden to hold any conversation; so we walked silently to
and fro like dumb beasts in a cage. From time to time we
were visited by a lieutenant named Znamyensky, a young man
of pronounced Jewish type, who was responsible for keeping
us under observation, and who insolently took advantage of
every appearance among us to jeer at our unfortunate plight.
As no sort of sleeping accommodation was provided, we
found ourselves obliged to pass the night seated on the chairs,
still guarded by four soldiers, who kept an unfriendly eye upon
us and noted the least movement. An incident that befell was
to show us, moreover, how dangerous our situation was. From
the next room we suddenly heard rifle-shots followed by a
cry of pain. It turned out that Rear-Admiral Kartsev, who
had been confined there for some days, had out of sheer nerv-
ous excitement almost lost his senses, and had unconsciously
grabbed at the bayonet of one of the sentries. The soldier,
thinking that Kartsev was going to attack him, had fired two
or three shots, wounding the Admiral in the shoulder. A
patrol under the command of a drunken N.C.O. of the Pre-
obrazhensky Regiment, hurrying up, re-established order in
the room. The Admiral was removed to a hospital, and so the
incident was closed. But I must say it made our frame of
mind only the more nervous and depressed. When the win-
dow-curtain in our room was drawn back in the morning it
Page 270
Page 270
232
"
THE OCHRANA
appeared that a pane of glass had been shattered by a shot.
The soldier, when he was shooting at Admiral Kartsev, had
fired in the direction of our room, the bullet had passed
through the door, and must have come within an inch or two
of my head in its flight toward the window.
The day was spent in deadly monotony, broken only by
the unwelcome clowning of Lieutenant Znamyensky. Every
now and then the door would be opened and another prisoner
introduced. In the evening Kerensky, the Minister of Justice
under
the revolutionary
Government,
appeared. He
ad-
dressed us in condescending tones and inquired ‘graciously’
as to our wishes and complaints. When he was informed that,
during the preceding night, one of the prisoners had become
almost insane, he did at least grant us permission to talk to
each other, which indeed meant a great relief.
I was disagreeably surprised when he turned to me and
invited me roughly to follow him to an adjoining room. There
he asked me abruptly what political personalities had been in
the Secret Service of the Police Department. Of course I was
not disposed to betray to him the secret agents of the Police,
and therefore answered evasively that I personally had had no
secret agents. That seemed to annoy Kerensky very much, for
he fell into a state of obvious excitement, shouting angrily at
me, “You are trying to conceal something from me! I should
like you to understand that you will have to answer for it!”
With that I was taken back again to the other persons under
arrest.
Scarcely, however, had I reached my chair there when we
received the order to hold ourselves in readiness for removal
to the Fortress of Peter and Paul. This command, which
naturally came to us with an unpleasant shock of surprise,
affected along with myself two more of those who were con-
fined in our room: the President of the Council of Ministers,
Page 271
Page 271
THE OCHRANA
233
Prince Golitsin, and the Assistant to the Minister of the In-
terior, Kukol-Yasnopolsky. Escorted by soldiers, we stepped
toward the exit from the Duma building, and there saw quite
a lot of other prisoners gathered, who were likewise awaiting
their removal to the Fortress. Four motor-cars drove up to
the gate. We all got in. In the same vehicle as myself sat
the Governor-General of Finland, Z. A. Zeyn, and Senator N.
I. Trusyevitsh, my predecessor at the head of the Police De-
partment. The fourth passenger in te car was a soldier hold-
ing a loaded rifle in his hand.
In another car bound for the Fortress was Sovyeshansky,
Colonel of Gendarmerie.
This officer had certainly never had
anything to do with political action, but it had been his duty to
superintend the execution of capital sentences.
Kerensky,
who was present while we were being removed, now showed
what vileness he was capable of, by telling the soldiers who
formed our escort of that fact, warning them in derision to
keep a specially sharp look-out on this Colonel. of Gendar-
merie, for his had been a “dirty business.” Kerensky forgot
to add at the same time that the Revolutionary Socialist Party,
to which he had belonged for so many years, had likewise
practised for long the equally “dirty business” of carrying out,
by their own hands, the ‘death sentences’ passed by them upon
members of the Imperial family, Ministers, and other loyal
officials.
The moment of departure was approaching. But just before
it actually arrived a lieutenant of artillery opened our car
door, raised his hand to the salute, and said with ironical
politeness, “Gentlemen, during the journey conversation of
any kind among you is forbidden. Any attempt at flight will
entail the immediate use of the rifle.” After making this
friendly intimation he shut the door and our procession
moved off.
Page 272
Page 272
234
- THE OCHRAKNKA
Never before had the way down Shpalyernaya Street, along
the bank of the Neva to Suvorov Square, seemed so long as
it did that day. The strangest feelings stirred within me when
our car turned to cross Troitsky Bridge and I saw before me
the vast pile of the Fortress of Peter and Paul, destined for
an indefinite period to form the place of my involuntary so-
journ. Under the Imperial régime the State prison within the
Fortress had been controlled by the Police Department, so
that I had been, in the last resort, the supreme head of this
establishment, into which I was now being cast as a prisoner!
It was inevitable that, at that moment, this irony of fate should
call forth within me a melancholy mood of grief and despair.
Immediately on our arrival we were subjected to treatment
which was as senseless as it was humiliating. In the middle
of the night, with the thermometer showing 27 degrees of
frost, we were obliged to line up in the great courtyard of the
Fortress, turn our faces to the wall, and stand thus for about
half an hour. What purpose that was supposed to serve we
never knew, unless the commandant was merely making it his
business to torture and degrade us.
After that the unfortunate Colonel of Gendarmerie, Sovye-
shansky, was led away by himself, the soldiers who formed
his escort mocking him and telling him that he was going
to be imprisoned in a cell on the ground floor, where the
damp was so dreadful that the floor was covered with water.
I knew that this detail was founded on fact: the cells in the
ground floor had therefore hitherto been used only as places
of confinement for habitual criminals of the worst class.
The remaining prisoners, myself among them, were taken
to an upper story, where there was a number of half-habitable
individual cells. No conversation was allowed here either, and
even talking to the sentries was, as we were informed, strictly
prohibited. In other respects the previous routine of prison
Page 273
Page 273
THE OCHRANA
235
arrangements had suffered no change; you were allowed to
wear your own underclothing, and, if you had money at your
disposal, you might have necessaries sent in from the town.
The cell allotted to me was Number 68, and there I was to
remain until the further course of my fate had been decided.
About two o'clock in the morning, Ivanishin, a Guards Colo-
nel, visited me; he searched me, removed my necktie and
braces, but left me my purse.
This Ivanishin had previously commanded the Trubyetskoy
Bastion, and consequently had till then been my subordinate.
Now he was wearing diagonally across his chest a red sash
with long bows, in order to proclaim thereby his loyal devo-
tion to the Revolution. That, however, did not prevent him
from addressing me with my title of “Excellency” and from
treating me in other respects also with something approaching
politeness and consideration.
A soldier brought me some hot tea, and I drank greedily
the warm fluid, which was doubly welcome after that long
wait in the bitter cold of the prison-yard. Colonel Ivanishin
then left me, and closed the door of the cell behind him, leav-
ing me under no delusion now as to my situation: I was no
longer head of the Ochrana, but a prisoner in this gaol.
Soon I noticed that some of the window-panes were smashed
and that the cell was icy cold. But mere weariness told: I
wrapped myself in my cloak, pulled the fur-cap down over
my ears, and sank into deep sleep. Next morning I was wak-
ened by a soldier who brought me hot water for tea. When
he inquired why I had spent the night in my furs, I drew his
attention to the panes that had been shot to pieces. A few
hours later I was transferred to cell Number 44, which faced
the south; and there I remained for the whole six months
of my captivity.
Page 274
Page 274
236
_
THE OCHRAXNA
After some little time I was informed that Kerensky had
come to the Fortress and wished to speak with me. I was
taken out to the corridor, where I found the former Minis-
ters, Maklakov, Makarov, Stiirmer, Shtyeglovitov, and Proto-
popov already assembled. Kerensky strode pompously to and
fro before us, and began a pathetic oration in which he made
continued and bombastic reference to “freedom,” “the newly
won rights of the people,” and “atonement for the sins ot the
Tsardom.” In conclusion he made known to us that the new
Government had appointed a Special Commission, whose task
it would be to show up all the crimes and acts of illegality
that we had committed. He urged us, when we were being
examined by that Commission, to be open and frank, for the
further duration of our imprisonment would depend upon the
extent of our straightforwardness.
The subsequent course of events was soon to show that this
statement of Kerensky’s was nothing more than one of his
numerous and plausible lies. In reality our imprisonment had
nothing in the world to do with “the extent of our straight-
forwardness.” The truth is, that we were kept prisoners only
because the new régime had to have “crimes of the Tsar-
dom” at all costs: it needed them. We might be as straight-
forward as we would in our depositions; that did not reduce
the duration of our imprisonment by one day.
It was very striking to note the frequency with which Ker-
ensky, in the course of his speech, emphasized the fact that
he had decided upon this or the other course “in his capacity
of Procurator-General.” * You could not fail to see how proud
this quondam petty lawyer was of the resounding title, which
* This title is sometimes rendered in this book as “Public Prosecutor” according to
the usual convention. But this seems to be really an inadequate rendering. It corre-
sponded to Attorney-General, approximately —TRaAnsLaTor.
Page 275
Page 275
Pe
a
ee
ANN
RE
Ne
THE OCHRANA
237
Peter the Great had once created for the Minister of Justice,
and which Kerensky had now adopted of his own authority.
Altogether the newly fledged Minister missed no opportunity
of parading his freshly acquired dignity before us, and of
impressing us as painfully as possible with his power and our
complete dependence upon his mercy. Thus he turned with
an imposing gesture to Colonel Ivanishin who accompanied
him, and inquired about our food: were we not being worse
looked after than prisoners under the Tsarist régime? Colonel
Ivanishin, saluting with cringing subserviency and his voice
trembling with awe, could think of nothing better to say than:
“Your Worship, the prisoners are having much better food
than in the time of the Tsar!”
I have already stated that we were privileged to buy what-
ever food we chose, provided we could afford to pay for it,
and to wear our own clothes. To that extent, then, we were
indeed not so badly off at first. It must, however, be pointed
out that, even before the Revolution, that had been the general
practice with prisoners on remand; indeed they were better
off under the old régime, inasmuch as they were allowed
to order wine, which we were now forbidden to do. Alto-
gether it is a thing to be noted that there was no justification
for associating with the name “Fortress of Peter and Paul,”
or even specially with the name “Trubyetskoy Bastion,” the
idea of a sinister dungeon. As a matter of fact, this Trubyetskoy
Bastion was one of the best, and, in the way it was managed
in the time of the Tsars, one of the model prisons not merely
of the Russian Empire, but of Europe. With the exception
of the damp cells on the ground floor, which under the Im-
perial Government were in any case used only as special pun-
ishment cells, the rooms assigned to prisoners were clean,
bright, and airy, while the management was in its time to be
Page 276
Page 276
238
THE OCHRANA
characterized as exemplary. During the first days we spent
under arrest we still enjoyed the amenities of the old system,
but, unfortunately, that tolerable state of matters was not to
last very long; it soon underwent changes that were notably
for the worse.
Page 277
Page 277
CHAPTER XIX
The Revolutionary Régime in the Fortress—The Psychological Effect of
Solitary Confinement—Easter in Prison—Cross-examination of Proto-
popov—The Extraordinary Commission—I write my ‘Confession’—T
he
Socialist Member of the Duma as Agent of the Ochrana—Protopopov’s
“Nonsense” —Purposeless Inquiries
N MARCH 20 the Fortress was occupied by a section
of Finnish soldiers, who immediately set about lording
it over us and introducing in the prison a “revolutionary ré-
gime.” They began by removing from our cells all that made
them semi-habitable and left us only the bedsteads. Till then
we had been permitted to wear our own underclothing; now
it was taken away from us, and we were supplied with a kind
of hospital garb of coarse sackcloth.
The right to provide our own food was also abolished, and
our guards now fed us alternately with dreadful, evil-smelling
soup and an equally repulsive hash made of all sorts of un-
speakable offal. Our bedding consisted of straw mattresses and
pillows stuffed with hens’ feathers. Finally, we were com-
manded to wear dressing-gowns in our cells, and they were
to be exchanged for ordinary clothes only when a prisoner
was summoned to the office. The cell floor we had now to
clean every day ourselves.
Once a day we had a walk in the yard. This lasted alto-
gether perhaps ten minutes, during which all conversation was
most strictly forbidden. Every fortnight we were allowed to
have a bath, and how we did not all contract some fatal trou-
ble in the process, God alone knows, for there were draughts
in every direction, especially as the doors in the anteroom could
not be shut, so that in the bathroom itself the air was always
freezing.
239
Page 278
Page 278
240
THE OCHRANA
The complete isolation of the solitary confinement to which
we were now subjected became in the long run very hard to
bear, and produced fits of extreme nervous excitement which
alternated with a condition of dull apathy. The hardship of
our condition became more intense as the season of Easter
approached, when, of course, every Russian feels an urgent
need of friendly intercourse with his fellow-men. Under the
old arrangements Easter had always been celebrated as a festi-
val even in the prisons, and at that time of the year the warders
had been in the way of treating their charges with brotherly
kindness and love. On this occasion, during the night before
Easter, Smirnov, the N.C.O. commanding the guard, came
thundering into my cell accompanied by two of his men and
smelling strongly of wine. I noticed this because he kissed me
and shouted in my ear, “Christ is risen.” And for all of us
who were then shut up in the Trubyetskoy Bastion that was
the beginning and the end of the Easter celebrations.
Some days later I was suddenly called to the presence of
Kerensky in the office of the gaol. When I arrived there, ac-
companied by my soldier escort, I found him engaged in con-
versation with Protopopov. I soon noticed that Kerensky was
doing his utmost to get out of the former Minister whether
N. E. Markoy, the leader of the Right Wing in the Duma,
had been in receipt of Government pay for the support he
gave to the Right, the more conservative section of the Radi-
cal movement.
For a long time Protopopov tried to avoid making a direct
reply to this question; his answers were framed so as to sug-
gest that the actual facts of the case were more ambiguous
than they really were. However, I was seated between the two
of them, and I could see that Kerensky was holding in his
hand documents with the contents of which I was quite well
acquainted, and which made it clear that certain sums had
Page 279
Page 279
THE OCHRANA
241
been paid to Markov by the Ministry of the Interior. Under
the circumstances it appeared to me that it served no purpose
to refuse to admit the truth; and when Kerensky turned to
me and asked whether I knew if Markov had received any-
thing in the way of material consideration, I replied that the
documents lying on the table contained a sufficient answer to
the question.
During the whole of this interview Protopopov betrayed
most astonishing timidity and lack of assurance.
It really
seemed as if he were ashamed of having given financial as-
sistance to Markov. I was all the more surprised by this, be-
cause I myself, as late as the end of the year 1916, had frankly
declared my view that the Government could not afford to
dispense with the assistance of the patriotic parties, and must
therefore contribute something to support them. As I saw the
matter, there was no need to be secretive about it, for there
was nothing in the transaction that anyone need have been
ashamed to admit.
However, Kerensky used it as a pretext to lecture Protopo-
pov in the most insolent fashion, as if he had been a school-
boy. Unfortunately, the situation was such that we were
absolutely in his power, and that he could take the liberty with
impunity. He jeered at Protopopov, asking him how he, who
after all was a popularly elected member of the Duma, could
have justified his action in spending State funds in sub-
sidizing the National Union, which had been notoriously and
in the highest degree undemocratic, and had shown itself
extraordinarily malignant in its action. The manner in which
Kerensky was rating Protopopov so excited my repugnance
that I at last stood up and asked in rather a categorical tone
whether my presence was necessary for the remainder of the
inquiry. When Kerensky said that it was not, I requested
the soldier who had brought me to the room to take me back
Page 280
Page 280
242
_ THE OCHRANA
again to my cell. And that was the end of my first cross-
examination, which was to be followed by many others.
Once a week prisoners were permitted to receive visitors,
and I need not say how much I looked forward to the meet-
ings with my wife. Before the first occasion I did not know
under what painful circumstances that interview would take
place; but I was not to be long in learning that our gaolers
had made sure that any joy we might have in it would be
embittered. The first time my wife called I asked in all in-
nocence how my friend Gvozdyov was getting on, and I was
at a loss to understand my wife’s embarrassment when I put
the question. She made a scarcely perceptible sign with her
eyes, and when I turned round I saw an N.C.O. standing
behind me and apparently writing down in his notebook a
word-for-word report of our conversation. Not till then did
I fully understand how dangerous it was to mention any
names. I was terrified by my unintentional indiscretion, and
fell into such a state of confusion that I jumped up hurriedly,
took leave of my wife, and returned in haste to my cell.
Life in prison passed in utmost monotony, for not only were
we severely isolated from each other and thus deprived of any
opportunity of exchanging thoughts, but we had neither books
nor newspapers, and consequently had not the slightest means
of indulging in any intellectual activity. And with that we
were permanently hungry, for our food, under the new prison
order, was more than inadequate. The one distraction we had,
if I may call it so, was provided by the cross-examinations we
underwent at the hands of the Extraordinary Commission
entrusted with the investigation of the ‘crimes’ that had been
committed by the officials under the old régime.
The helplessness with which this Commission set about
its business would have been positively amusing if the mat-
ters at issue had not been so serious, and if, in the last resort,
Page 281
Page 281
THE OCHRANKA
243
the Commission had not been settling my own fate, which
depended absolutely upon its decision. First of all we were
questioned narrowly about all manner of absurd details con-
nected with our former service; but as apparently this proce-
dure had revealed nothing that our judges could exploit for
their purposes, we were commanded to draw up statements
of our own, indicating therein any acts that we had ever com-
mitted “against the people.” I, for example, was required to
give a written account of all the measures I had initiated for
the suppression of the revolutionary movement, of my conduct
in the Jewish question, and of various other points arising
out of my official career. It seemed that the new authorities,
who at every turn were in the way of talking at large to
the people about the “crimes” of the Tsarist officials, had at
bottom no clear idea of what charges they should bring against
us. And now they hoped that our own confessions would sup-
ply them with the evidence that would enable them to bring
us to book.
To begin with, I did not know in the least what attitude
to adopt with reference to this strange order. At first I did
my utmost to search my conscience in all honesty, and for
some days and nights, which I spent in solitude in my cell
given over to my own thoughts, I tried to recall all the in-
structions I had ever issued in my different official positions.
With the best will in the world I could find nothing in my
memory that could have been described as a ‘crime.’ I could
indeed recall, I must say, errors of omission and commission
of which I had been guilty, and which I was ready and will-
ing at any time to admit very frankly.
The Commission had granted me for the composition of
my ‘confession’ no more than the space of two weeks. But,
owing to the tumult of excitement that possessed me I was
absolutely unable for fully five days to put anything whatever
Page 282
Page 282
244
THE OCHRAKA
down in writing. Whenever I tried to make a beginning I was
assailed by the disagreeable thought that every word I wrote
would be set in a false light by distortion and wrong interpre-
tation. I was very well aware that the aim of the Commission
was in no sense to arrive at a just and unbiased decision,
and that they would, on the contrary, certainly examine what-
ever I set down, with a view to seeking and finding material
on which to found accusations against myself or other of-
ficials. That being so, I felt very little inclined to be myself
the agent supplying my accusers with the evidence they
required.
Finally, however, I did make up my mind to write down
in accordance with the true facts whatever I had to say about
my long years of service in the Police Department. I there-
fore began by describing in general terms the conception I had
formed of my duties, and the manner in which I had been
accustomed to deal with my subordinates and with petitioners
who came to call upon me. Then I set down in all possible
detail the measures adopted by me against those revolutionary
organizations that, in my opinion, had pursued their destruc-
tive activities, thinking nought of the well-being of Russia,
but only of their own interests. I also wrote a very complete
account of the subdivision of the various tasks and duties al-
lotted to the Police and of the spheres of action assigned to
the separate sections that were under the control of the Chief
of the Department.
While I was still busy compiling this document, I was sum-
moned several times for examination by the Commission. The
most amazing questions were put to me; and the whole char-
acter of this ordeal strengthened the impression I had received
from the start, that the Commission was not seriously con-
cerned to inquire into real offences perpetrated by former
officials, but that, with the object of constructing ‘crimes’ at
C
Page 283
Page 283
THE OCHRANA
245
any cost, they were listening to the most senseless, the silliest
gossip. For instance, they asked me on one occasion whether
it was true that, when I was in the position of second-in-com-
mand at the Police headquarters, I had spoken over the tele-
phone to Belyetsky, the former Chief. Naturally I answered
that I did not know to which conversation they were referring.
The president thereupon informed me, with hesitation and
with obvious reluctance, that the Commission was investigat-
ing the affair of the Duma member, Malyinovsky. Now I
knew which telephone conversation they were talking about.
For the enlightenment of the reader I should like to ex-
plain that Malyinovsky,
a member of the Bolshevik Central
Committee, had in the year roto fallen into the hands of the
Moscow Ochrana. As his conspicuous gift of oratory and his
great organizing power were well known, the head of the
Ochrana for the time being determined to make an effort to
win over Malyinovsky, and he succeeded too, for Malyinovsky
resolved to serve the Police Department in the capacity of
secret agent. To avoid exciting suspicion, he was kept under
arrest for some time after the arrangement was made, and
then he was released on the ostensible ground of the insuf-
ficiency of the evidence against him. From that time onward
Malyinovsky regularly supplied the Ochrana with informa-
tion about the proceedings of the Socialist Party, and the in-
telligence he brought was, as a rule, reliable and useful. When
he was afterward elected to the Imperial Duma, of course, the
value of his secret co-operation was enhanced. Then Belyetsky,
the Chief of the Police Department, hit on the idea of making
use of Malyinovsky for the purpose of carrying out a bold
political stroke.
At his instigation Malyinovsky provoked a violent discus-
sion among the members of the Socialist Party in the Duma,
and guided it so skilfully that a split took place, an event
Page 284
Page 284
246
THE OCHRANA
that, at the time, gave rise to great excitement and consterna-
tion among the Socialist leaders all over Europe.
When, however, Belyetsky subsequently retired from the
post of Chief of the Ochrana, his successor did not continue
the relations with Malyinovsky, who, in consequence, was de-
prived of the five hundred roubles he had been drawing
monthly, a circumstance which, very naturally, he found ex-
tremely disagreeable. He therefore applied to Belyetsky, re-
questing him to put in a good word for him with the new
head of the Police Department, recommending that he be
reinstated in the service of the Ochrana. This request Belyetsky
had passed on to me, and that had formed the subject of the
conversation over the telephone in which the Commission of
Inquiry was manifesting such interest.
The part I had myself played in the whole affair had been
very simple: on behalf of Belyetsky I had spoken to Trusye-
vitsh in favour of Malyinovsky. My intervention, moreover,
was unsuccessful, for Malyinovsky’s petition was turned down.
He thereafter went abroad, where he found new patrons in
Lenin and Zinovyev. As Burtsev had accused him of main-
taining relations with the Ochrana, a tribunal was constituted
by the Bolshevik party to investigate his case, but it acquitted
him. From the time he left Russia the Germans made use
of Malyinovsky in the organization of revolutionary propa-
ganda among Russian prisoners of war interned in German
camps. Further, after the Bolshevik Revolution, Lenin had
Malyinovsky shot when the latter returned to Russia.
I described in brief to the Extraordinary Commission all
the facts known to me about the affair, and my cross-examina-
tion, as far as this Malyinovsky business was concerned, was
at an end. What was supposed to be the real purpose of mak-
ing a new ‘inquiry’ into this long-forgotten, and in itself
trifling, affair I have never been able to learn to this day.
Page 285
Page 285
THE OCHRANA
247
A short time after that experience I was once more called
up for examination. This time the president of the Commis-
sion, with very black looks, pushed over to me a document
about which I was required to tell all I knew. It was an old
memorial sent in by the Marshal of the Nobility in the Gov-
ernment of Simbirsk, and addressed to the Minister of the
Interior, Protopopov. It complained of certain irregularities
alleged to have been committed by the local Police authorities
in that government. At first I could not think what were fhe
intentions of the Commission in dragging up this utterly in-
significant matter, but they pointed out to me that Protopo-
pov had written in blue pencil upon the memorial the word
“Nonsense.” Upon this fact the ‘Judges’ were basing the charge
of “neglect of duty” against the Minister who, according to
them, when information was sent him of abuses in the Police
Administration, had simply ignored it.
I had no sooner glanced at the document than I managed
completely to rebut that accusation. I drew the attention of the
examining magistrate to the important circumstance that,
along with the word “Nonsense,” Protopopov had also marked
the paper with the two letters “P.D.,” which, according to the
usage accepted in the Ministry of the Interior, meant, “To be
passed on for consideration to the Police Department.” So that,
although Protopopov had been of opinion that the complaint
in question was unfounded, he had nevertheless not omitted
to have the thing sent on to the Police Department, in order
that it might be officially looked into. As a matter of fact the
document ad reached me, whereupon I had set about having
the necessary investigation carried out, the final result, more-
over, being a complete confirmation of the Minister’s verdict:
the complaint had indeed been nonsense.
The embarrassment of the individual who was directing
this cross-examination was plain and unmistakable when I
Page 286
Page 286
248
THE OCHRANA
was able to produce this striking proof that neither the Min-
ister nor his subordinates had been guilty in this matter of
any neglect of duty. Apparently that meant that yet another
bright hope of the Commission’s had miserably failed them.
No less characteristic of the senselessness of the entire pro-
cedure of the Investigating Commission was my examination
on April 8, which I have retained almost word for word and
shall here set down, so that the reader may form his own
picture of the hopelessly futile process to which we were
subjected.
After I had been brought in before the Board one of the as-
sessors asked me to state what had been the system in use for
maintaining telegraphic communication with foreign coun-
tries and with G.H.Q. I answered that, to the best of my
knowledge, between the Ministry of the Interior and the
Army Command there had been direct connexion, but that I
was not quite sure of the facts. As for the foreign service, the
Ministry had always made use of telegrams in cipher.
“So that means,” said the president of the Commission
with an air of great self-importance, “that the Police Depart-
ment had no direct communication with countries abroad?”
“No,” I replied; “our telegrams were drawn up in code,
and were dispatched through the Postal Section number 35,
which was installed in our head office. What happened to the
telegrams after that I do not know, but I assume that they
were sent on by the Post Office by the usual routes.”
Thereupon the president asked me if I knew anything about
the relations between Protopopov and a certain Charles Perrin.
I answered, as the truth required, that Perrin had been an
acquaintance of Protopopov’s, to whom the latter had once
telegraphed. “I believe,” I added, “that Perrin had applied to
Protopopov for a permit to enter the country, but the inquiries
instituted in the Police Department about Perrin yielded very
Page 287
Page 287
THE OCHRANA
249
unfavourable results, for it turned out that the military au.
thorities suspected him of espionage.” Then I was asked if I
could remember when those inquiries had been made. “I think
in November,” I replied, “but I cannot say exactly. In any case,
they were made, and Protopopov received all the data we had
referring to Perrin. A fortnight or so later Perrin again tele-
graphed to Protopopoy, asking once more for permission to
come into Russia. At Protopopoy’s desire, however, we put
together a polite form of refusal, and this, in the form of a
telegram, was then sent off by Protopopov himself.”
That was all I knew about the Perrin business. Then the
president of this tribunal wished to be informed whether there
had existed in the Police Department a special section to deal
with matters of espionage. I said there was not. One of the
assessors put a question to me as to what the facts were con-
cerning the “Danish cable,” to which I truthfully made answer
that I had not the slightest idea. And with that this cross-
examination, like those that had preceded it, came to an end—
a classical example of utter futility. I was then permitted to
return to my cell.
Page 288
Page 288
CHAPTER XX
Days of Terror—Awaiting a Catastrophe—The July Bolshevik Revolt
—The Provisional Government wishes to have my Assistance against
Lenin—My ‘Crime’ is discovered—Senseless Accusations—My Defence
N THE early days of July 1917 we prisoners noticed that
something unusual was happening in the city. The officers
and soldiers in the Fortress appeared to be in a state of nervous
excitement that we could not understand; and very soon, too,
the customary weekly visits paid by our relatives were stopped.
Suddenly we heard coming across to us from the city the
rattle of rifle and machine-gun fire, and as we still had no idea
of what it really meant, we tortured ourselves for hours on
end with the most fantastic theories.
Of course the first thing I thought of was a revolt of loyal
supporters of the Imperial cause against the Republican Gov-
ernment. However much I might have rejoiced at that in the
interests of Russia, our own situation was likely to become
only the more dangerous, as, after all, we were there in prison,
in the hands of the revolutionaries. For all that, I hoped with
my whole heart that the fighting that was going on outside
might end with the victory of the Monarchist Party. From
some veiled hints let fall by the guards, however, I soon had to
recognize that it was apparently not a Monarchist insurrection
that was in progress, but a revolt of some kind on the other
side. Any further details we could not find out by any means
at our disposal.
All conversation with our gaolers had again been most
strictly prohibited, but in the state of inner excitement that pos-
sessed me I at last could endure the strain no longer, and asked
the soldier on duty, when he entered my cell, what was really
going on, and what was the explanation of the continual ex-
250
we
ae
Page 289
Page 289
THE OCHRANA
251
plosions that I quite plainly heard through the open window.
But when the soldier heard my question, he twisted his face
into a mocking grin, looked me up and down, and then re-
plied that in the town—all was quiet! After giving me this
patently false information and making me only more puzzled
than I had been before, he locked the door behind him and
remained out of sight and hearing for hours.
Not till late that night did I manage to get a little sleep,
but I was soon awake again, starting up in terror, for in the
corridor I heard the hurried steps of men obviously very ex-
cited and rushing to and fro within the Fortress. In a condition
of utmost nervous tension I listened to every sound, and the
panic in which I was reached its height when I heard a voice
in close proximity to my cell door inquire: “Have you your
revolvers loaded?” The sentry’s voice replied in the affirmative,
whereupon the unknown whispered, “If they get into the
Fortress, none of the prisoners must be left alive.” You can
imagine my state of mind when I caught those words. I un-
derstood that the fate of us all was hanging on a thread, and
the worst of it was that I did not yet know which party was
on the point of storming the Fortress. In this mood of hopeless
despair, and to be prepared for any issue, I hastily wrote a
farewell note to my wife, making what speed I might in doing
so, for I thought that at any moment I might meet with a
violent end.
This nerve-racking situation was prolonged for three days
and nights, and it is really a miracle that not one of us pris-
oners lost his reason under the strain. It was July 7 before
things calmed down again and the firing ceased. Once more
the prison doctor made his round of the cells, and relatives
were again permitted to resume their visits.
A good while elapsed before I learned all the particulars of
what had actually taken place in those days, which had been
Page 290
Page 290
252
THE OCHRANA
for me so full of terror. The coward Kerensky, in spite of his
big talk, had not in all the months of his ‘rule’ in Russia
summoned up courage to arrest the leaders of the Bolsheviks;
on the contrary, he had looked on passively while they steadily
increased their influence upon the demoralized Army. The la-
mentable failure of the offensive undertaken by the Provisional
Government on the Galician Front had then contributed still
further to the complete destruction of the authority of that
Government, which was already shadowy enough; and thus,
by the beginning of July, the Bolsheviks were able to carry
out their first attempt at an armed revolution. Certain units
which should have left Petersburg for the Front bluntly re-
fused to take the field, and, instead of doing so, went to a meet-
ing where they were incited by Trotsky to rebellion against
the Provisional Government. Soldiers and an armed rabble
again took command of the streets and made a noisy demon-
stration in front of the Taurian Palace, demanding with loud
shouting the fall of the Government and the proclamation of
the Dictatorship of the Soviets.’
The sailors and soldiers from Kronstadt, the most Radical of
all the revolutionary units, immediately marched upon Pe-
tersburg, where Lenin, who had taken up his quarters in
what had been the mansion of the dancer Kshessinskaya, held
a regular parade. The absolute lack of authority on the part of
the Government was well shown by the fact that the Kron-
stadt seamen captured and were going to lynch Tshernov, the
Minister of Agriculture, a leader of the Revolutionary Socialist
Party, who tried to calm them by making a speech. Tshernoy
owed his life solely to the intervention of Trotsky, who at that
time still deemed it expedient to prevent the mob whose pas-
sions he had aroused, from committing deeds of bloodshed
that would have excited too much horror.
Fi
f
P
;
The Russian word means simply ‘councils..—TRANsLATOR.
Page 291
Page 291
THE OCHRANA
253
As by a miracle, the Provisional Government was able for
that time to get the better of the Bolshevik revolt, mainly
because certain Cossack regiments unexpectedly proved loyal
and opposed the badly organized bands of the rebels.
How critical our position had been in those days was re-
vealed by a circumstance which likewise did not come to my
knowledge till later—namely, that the Fortress of Peter and
Paul had also been occupied by the Bolshevik seamen from
Kronstadt. Apparently during those hours when the excite-
ment was at its height, literally no one had given us prisoners
a thought, so that we had been spared the worst. Then in the
night of July 5-6 victory decided for the Government, and
soon after the seamen in the Fortress also had had to capitulate.
I was still completely unaware of all these happenings when,
a few days later, I was summoned to the prison office. There
I found an examining magistrate present, who addressed me
in unusually affable tones, saying: “You are the late head
of the Police Department, and should therefore be in a posi-
tion to assist the Government by throwing light on some im-
portant matters. I therefore invite you to let me know your
views on the incidents that occurred from July 3 to 5.”
This mode of address rather astounded me. I replied that I
had no idea of what Aad happened in those days, as we pris-
oners had not received any news whatever. Then the official
explained to me briefly that a revolt had broken out among
the Bolsheviks in the capital, but that the Government had
completely suppressed it by force of arms. After supplying me
with so much information, he let me see plainly what was in
his mind by requesting me to communicate, with all possible
detail, the evidence concerning the personality of the Bolshevik
leaders and their treacherous activities that had come to my
knowledge during the time I had occupied the post of Director
of the Police Department.
Page 292
Page 292
254
THE OCHRANA
Thus I had temporarily exchanged the situation of sus-
pect under arrest for that of counsellor to the Provisional
Government, a situation which, even in the serious plight in
which we all still found ourselves, entertained me not a little.
Now, Kerensky and Company I detested with all my soul,
but, however disinclined I was otherwise to support them by
presenting them with all the information I had acquired in
the Service, I thought it expedient in this case to comply with
the request. I knew that, in face of the threatening Bolshevik
danger, the Provisional Government was a lesser evil; and
therefore I let the examining magistrate have the benefit of all
that was known to me about Lenin, Trotsky, Zinovyev, and
the other leaders of the Bolshevik party. I also directed the
attention of the Government to the extensive collection of in-
formation to be found in the secret archives of the Ochrana
about certain of those persons—I was assuming that the docu-
ments in their cases had escaped the general destruction of
the February Revolution.
It would have been rather simple on my part to expect from
that turn of events any permanent improvement in my sit-
uation. In spite of the consideration shown to me for a few
days, I continued to be suspicious as before, and subsequent
events were to prove that I was perfectly justified. For, no
sooner did the Provisional Government feel that the Bolshe-
vik danger had been averted, no sooner did they begin to think
that they had escaped disaster, than the Extraordinary Com-
mission of glorious memory resumed its activities.
It was in the days of the July troubles that the Government
had deemed it necessary to have recourse to my assistance.
By August 1 the Commission had at last discovered, with
much labour that ‘crime’ of which I had been guilty during
my official career, and for which I was now to be called to
account. On that date I was summoned for examination by
Page 293
Page 293
THE OCHRANA
a5
the magistrate Yodlovsky, who solemnly informed me that I
was now definitely in the position of an accused man: the
Commission charged me on the one hand with neglect of
duty, and on the other hand with abuse of official authority.
Naturally I at once sought to learn what this strange double
accusation was based upon; the first part of it appeared to be
in patent conflict with the second. When I asked a direct ques-
tion on the point, this is what Yodlovsky told me. Toward the
end of the year 1916 I had sent out to governors, captains of
town Police, and Gendarmerie authorities circulars in which
I had instructed them to find out whether and where procla-
mations were being prepared for January 9, the anniversary
of the first Russian Revolution. These circulars also contained
orders that all appropriate measures should be taken betimes,
so that, in any case, such intended demonstrations should be
prevented or, if need be, suppressed by military force.
You can understand my amazement when I was taken to
task for that circular. According to my own conviction, I had
simply done my duty, by taking steps for the maintenance of
order; and I therefore asked the Commission very bluntly, if
in their view I ought, let us say, to have looked on in silence
at anti-Government demonstrations. The answers I received,
however, very speedily convinced me that the Commission’s
conception of the official duties of a Russian Director of Police
under the Tsar was altogether too peculiar to make any ra-
tional explanation of such things possible between us. So, with
what resignation and equanimity I had at my command, I
soon abandoned the attempt to prove to these gentlemen how
untenable their position really was.
In the course of later examinations it became more and more
obvious that the ‘crime’ of which we imprisoned officials of
the Police and Gendarmerie were being accused was, more than
all else, our co-operation with the secret agents of the Internal
Page 294
Page 294
256
THE OCHRANA
Agency. They were trying now to interpret this entire method
of procedure in criminal investigation as abuse of official power.
The arguments with which the Commission tried to support
this view were as simple as they were childish. The Tsarist Gov-
ernment had made use of information supplied to it by mem-
bers of prohibited political organizations, and in return for
their services these secret agents not merely were in receipt of
money payments, but were assured of immunity from arrest.
It was on that very fact that our enemies were founding the
charge they brought against us of exceeding our powers. For,
the Commission maintained, the duty of the Police would
have been to hand over their own agents to the judicial au-
thorities, as their mere membership of illegal societies should
have made them amenable to the law. The failure to secure
the proper punishment of the agents was construed by the
Commission as “neglect of duty” on our part, while these same
judges interpreted the employment of the agents in the collec-
tion of information as “abuse of official powers.”
This extravagant sophistry, of course, would not have borne
legal criticism any better than the test of ordinary human logic.
But the men who were sitting in judgment upon us were
anxious to convict us at any price of some crime, and as noth-
ing better could be found, this absurd interpretation of the law
had to serve as a basis for the accusations made against us.
Naturally I replied that the Internal Agency had not been
brought into existence by me, but that it had been created
many years ago, and that, further, no Political Police in the
world would find it possible to do its work without making
use of secret agents. Moreover, I pointed out, the granting of
exemption from punishment was, after all, one of the first
conditions if confidential assistants were to be won over from
the revolutionary camp, and consequently such secret assist-
ants would never be obtained at all if that condition were not
Page 295
Page 295
THE OCHRAN-A
257
fulfilled. But when it became more and more patent that the
Commission was not in the least inclined to accept my justi-
fication, nay, that my having ever occupied the office of Chief
of the Police was in itself accounted to me for sin, I desisted
from any further effort to sustain my defence, and determined
to bring it forward later on, abroad, in the form of these
memoirs.
In addition to my other crimes, I was also charged with an
offence because I had arrested that famous War Trade Com-
mittee of Gutshkov’s and had permitted the postal Censor-
ship. In both cases I was alleged to have transgressed the legal
limits of my powers. As I have already indicated, I owed my
information as to the treacherous and disloyal activity of the
Workmen’s Group in the Trade Committee to a certain Am-
brozilov, and the essence of the charge was, as in the general
indictment against me, that the employment of intelligence
procured by such an agency amounted to “abuse of official
powers.” As for the censorship of letters, I was in a position
to inform the examining magistrate that it had been instituted
at the command of the Tsar, and that consequently the Po-
lice Department could not be made responsible for it.
After countless cross-examinations the Commission evidently
became convinced that it was not possible to bring any serious
charge home to me, for it decided at last to accept bail for a
large sum and to release me from prison. I was, as a matter
of fact, transferred from the Fortress to another prison.
Page 296
Page 296
CHAPTER XXI
Some Pleasant Recollections of my Imprisonment—Kindly Guards—
A Revolutionary against his Will—The Other Side of the Picture: in
the Power of a Murderer—Dismissed from the Fortress—The Bolshevik
Revolution—Flight of the Investigating Commission—Liberated at Last
—Vicissitudes in Kiev—Pursued by Fate—Proposal from the Tsheka
—A Railway Porter in Paris—Spirit of the Russian Emigrants
DO not wish to conclude my recollections of the time I
spent as a prisoner in the Fortress of Peter and Paul with-
out devoting a few words also to the agreeable impressions I
received there.
No doubt the soldiers who composed our guard were in the
main coarse, brutal men intoxicated with their newly acquired
power and only too willing to wreak upon us prisoners their
hatred of the old régime. Nevertheless there were among
them, too, good-natured fellows who, whether by little gifts
of tea, sugar, and cigarettes, or even merely by a few kindly
words, many a time put new courage into our sinking hearts.
It must not be supposed that the long-drawn-out torture
inflicted upon us by the Investigating Commission, with the
senseless indignity of those cross-examinations, failed to pro-
duce its effect upon our nerves. Often did I go back to my cell
after such an ordeal utterly exhausted and collapse upon my
bed, holding my hands to my head in blank despair. More
than once at such a time the cell door opened and an or-
dinary soldier would come in to cheer me up. With kindly,
simple peasant speech he would tell me to pluck up courage
and not give up hope, but wait patiently till all that disorder
that they called “Revolution” should come to an end of itself,
With unfeigned gratitude I recall the really touching be-
haviour toward us prisoners shown by an Esthonian soldier,
258
“ee
a e
Page 297
Page 297
THE OCHRAN A
259
named Meisling, who was one of our guards. He was always
pleasant, cheerful, and considerate, and this, combined with
his rather imperfect command of Russian, often moved me
and, I daresay, many of my companions in misfortune, exert-
ing upon us a wholesome influence and lifting us out of the
depression which, when we were left to ourselves, was often
more than we could endure.
And that Little Russian, too, who so often came into my cell,
was another touching figure. He told me in a friendly way that
he had once, under the Tsardom, spent ten long months him-
self in some provincial gaol, and therefore knew only too well
what it felt like to be under arrest, and especially in solitary
confinement. With kindly thought he suggested to me that, if
ever I felt especially depressed, I should at once knock on the
cell door and call him in. Whenever I did so he did actually
come to me at once, and would frequently chat with me for
hours on general topics, for, of course, the regulations in force
forbade all discussion of the political events of the day.
Once—it was one Sunday in the summer-time—he knocked
politely at my cell door; then he came in and said he had just
received a letter from home and did not know how to answer
it properly. Would I draft an answer for him? He read the
letter aloud to me. His relatives were complaining bitterly that
the communal and judicial authorities were now simply
packed with Jews. However much it would have attracted me
to fulfil the soldier’s wish by dictating a reply to him, I thought
it more prudent to refrain: in those troublous days you could
never know what consequences might arise out of any ap-
parently innocent but yet inconsiderate step. I explained to the
soldier that I knew too little about the situation to be able to
express an opinion in the matter, and was therefore not in a
position to offer him any suitable advice.
The most likeable of our guards was a seaman attached to
Page 298
Page 298
260
THE OCHRANA
the Gendarmerie, whose name, unfortunately, has slipped my
memory. He was a good-looking, intelligent, and unusually
well-educated young man, who distinguished himself in all
respects by his decent, gentlemanly attitude to the prisoners. In
course of time he developed a special preference for conversing
with me about political questions of a general character, which
was certainly in breach of prison rules. He was circumspect
in his observations on those subjects and never defended the
Socialist point of view, giving me thus quite plainly to under-
stand that he was a revolutionary entirely against his will.
In a general way the Rifle Regiment was very unfriendly in
its attitude to us, but one soldier even of that unit showed us
many a little kindness. He was the man who, whenever it was
at all possible, supplied us with cigarettes; and only one who
has spent some time in prison can have any idea how much a
cigarette can do at times to revive drooping spirits!
It must be admitted there were, among our guards, a fair
number of individuals of a more disagreeable type. One of the
worst of these was a certain man named Kulikovy, a coarse,
degenerate fellow, with a bald pate and cold eyes, almost like
those of a beast. He belonged unmistakably to a criminal type,
and I have no doubt that in earlier days he had had frequent
opportunities of making the near acquaintance of the inside of
the Tsar’s gaols, not, of course, as a warder but as an inmate.
He inspired me with a strong feeling of repulsion, and I looked
forward frankly with terror to the days when he was on duty
in our corridor. How well founded that feeling was became
evident only a few months later, just after the Bolshevik Revo-
lution took place. Kulikovy was one of those four men who,
in January 1918, forced their way into the Lityeiny Hospital,
and there brutally strangled Kokoshkin and Shingaryov, two
imprisoned Cadets, i.e. Moderate Republican Ministers under
the Kerensky Government.
Page 299
Page 299
THE OCHRANA
261
Another person who made himself noticeably unpleasant
was an N.C.O. of the Preobrazhensky Guards Regiment, whose
behaviour was exceptionally rough not only to us prisoners,
but even to his own comrades. He was very fond of making
a great din by banging doors and rushing with his noisy boots
through the passages in the Fortress, issuing at the top of his
voice all sorts of more or less trivial orders.
On September 6, 1917, I was at last removed from the For-
tress of Peter and Paul to solitary confinement in the ordinary
prison, where I soon entered hospital. There I spent the next
two months. Compared with the severe conditions I had
known in the Fortress, the prison hospital was a much more
comfortable place to live in, and while I was there I suffered
far less from those fits of disconsolate apathy that had so often
got the better of me before.
While I was still lying in the prison hospital, the long
threatened Bolshevik Revolution broke out, on October 25.
That glorious Government of Kerensky’s had managed still to
get the better of the Bolsheviks in July, but now it collapsed
utterly within a few hours. This time the insurrection was
better organized, and, besides, not a single regiment in the
Petersburg garrison took up a determined stand on the side
of the so-called Government. Trotsky was able by his own un-
aided efforts to bring the Fortress of Peter and Paul over to the
rebel side: he simply went and delivered to the troops occupy-
ing it one of those speeches of his that were as unscrupulous as
they were effective, inciting them to mutiny. That one stroke
practically sealed the fate of the capital, for, in the Fortress,
the revolutionary troops and workmen found the stores of
arms and ammunition of which they stood in need.
Scarcely had the situation begun to look dangerous when
Kerensky left the city in a motor-car with all the appearance
of a fugitive, ostensibly to bring relief from G.H.Q., most
Page 300
Page 300
262
THE OCHRANA
probably his real and immediate object being to seek safety
for his own precious person. The victory of the Bolsheviks
was quite decided before the day of October 25 had closed,
and they lost no time in proclaiming the Soviet Republic.
The Investigating Commission upon which our fate had
depended till then broke up in a panic, for most of its mem-
bers had more or less reason to fear their own arrest at the
hands of the Bolsheviks. We, the Tsarist Ministers and officials,
however, remained prisoners as before, the only difference
being that now the Bolsheviks, instead of the Provisional Gov-
ernment, looked as if they would sit in judgment upon us and
punish us for our ‘crimes.’ So we had good grounds for anx-
iety as we thought of our future prospects.
Our situation did not take a turn for the better until the
Left Wing of the Revolutionary Socialist Party formed a coali-
tion with the Bolsheviks, and sent members to join the Soviet
Government. The Revolutionary Socialist Steinberg took over
the office of People’s Commissary for the Administration of
Justice, so that our fate was now in his hands. Whether it was
that Steinberg had some sense of justice, or whether he had
some political reason for shielding us from the bloody régime
that the Tsheka was inaugurating, the fact is that he proved
relatively accessible to rational argument, and ordered the
release of a number of imprisoned Tsarist officials on payment
of considerable sums as bail. On the other hand, the Ministers
of the fallen Kerensky Government now replaced us as scape-
goats, and were treated by the Bolsheviks just as they had
previously dealt with us.
While I was still in prison, my wife had not been idle. She
had plied the Bolshevik authorities with memorials and peti-
tions for my release, until she did at last induce the Commis-
sary of Justice to set me free, as I have stated, the sum fixed
as caution money being ten thousand roubles.
Page 301
Page 301
THE OCHRAN4
263
Then followed a difficult and dangerous time, during which
I did not know from one day to the next whether I should
not suddenly receive a visit from the agents of the Tsheka,
sent by their chief, Jerzhinsky, to arrest me. As by a miracle
that fate, which at the time befell so many of my former
colleagues, was spared me, and I lived quite unmolested in
Petersburg till July 1918, when I took advantage of an op-
portunity that occurred of quitting the capital, which was
growing too hot. The Ukraine had, under German protection,
declared its complete independence of Russia, and whoever
had been born on the territory of this new republic was now
treated as a foreigner in Soviet Russia. Thanks to the circum-
stance that I had first seen the light of day in Kiev, I was able
to claim foreign nationality and to go with my wife to that
city.
On my arrival there my first business was to look about me
for suitable employment that would at least provide me with
a livelihood, and I was very glad when the Hetman Skoro-
padsky offered me a post attached to the Kiev Court of Ap-
peal. I thought that I had found a new sphere of useful ac-
tivity and a new and comparatively assured foundation upon
which to build up my life. In reality, however, my sorrows
were only now about to begin.
The rule of Hetman Skoropadsky was of only short dura-
tion, for the Entente Powers soon found ways and means of
making difficulties for this pro-German Dictator by setting
up in opposition their own tool, Simon Petlyura, who, having
plenty of money at his disposal, quickly obtained a numerous
following. The German troops which had, to start with, pro-
vided Skoropadsky’s main support, having by now become de-
moralized by the Soviet system, adopted a neutral attitude,
so that Petlyura was able to enter Kiev on November 14, 1918.
If I had become in the eyes of the Russians an Ukrainian,
Page 302
Page 302
264
THE OCHRANA
under this new Petlyura régime I had been turned once more
into a Muscovite, and that meant not merely the loss of my
position, but almost the complete withdrawal of all rights and
elementary protection. All the same I waited on in Kiev, not
least because I saw no chance at the moment of getting out.
But Petlyura’s rule was not to last long either. As early as
the beginning of February he had to flee before the Bolshevik
army of the renegade General Klembovsky. That was the end
of his career in the Ukraine, and he lived thereafter in Paris,
till he was murdered in the year 1926 by a Jewish fanatic
named Schwarzbard.
Just before the Bolsheviks entered Kiev I managed, with
the devoted assistance of a few faithful friends, to fee from
the city and to make my way to the Hungarian frontier. I
arrived there with nothing but the clothes I stood up in, for
I had had to leave all I possessed otherwise in Kiev.
But one would have thought that I was being pursued by
a relentless fate, for I had hardly settled in Budapest when
the Bolshevik insurrection broke out and Bela Kun instituted
his reign of terror. I was obliged to continue my flight, and
this time I made for Prague, where my brother, who was then
employed at the university of that town, was able to grant
me temporary asylum.
Thence I went on to Berlin. After staying there for some
little time I betook myself to Munich in the vain hope that
the Bavarian Government, which had only a short time be-
fore overthrown a system like that of the Soviets in Russia,
and was still having to struggle against Russian emissaries of
that political hue, might be able to employ my services. I had
been labouring under a delusion, however, and all my efforts
to obtain an appointment under the Munich authorities were
of no avail.
On the other hand, a man from Berlin called on me one day.
Page 303
Page 303
THE OCHRANA
265
He was an envoy from the Tsheka, and did me the honour
of proposing that I should enter the service of the Bolshevik
Government as a spy. The sum of money offered as a bribe
Was quite considerable, but I have seldom in my life ex-
perienced such satisfaction as I felt at the moment when I had
the privilege of throwing that gentleman downstairs.
After that my wife and I passed through very difficult times.
The depreciation of the mark drove us out of Germany, and
as, on the occasion of Poincaré’s visit to Petersburg in 1913,
I had received the distinction of being included in the Legion
of Honour, I now cherished hopes of finding an abiding-place
in France. We therefore turned our faces toward Paris, where
for some time I was permitted to earn eighteen francs a day
as a porter, looking after luggage in the St. Lazare terminus.
One day, however, the higher authorities discovered that
I was a foreigner, and I had to resign that extremely lucrative
job in favour of a native-born Frenchman. My wife had mean-
time found a post as bottle-washer in a perfume factory. That
was fortunate. As for myself, I should literally have starved
to death in the streets if I had not managed to find refuge in
the “Russian Homes” maintained by a philanthropic young
English lady in Sainte-Geneviéve-des-Bois, where I am still
living to-day.
But, however difficult and unhappy my personal situation
may be, Iam much more concerned by the attitude of so many
of my companions in misfortune, whom I have come across
here in Paris, and on whose minds the events of the last few
years have produced such disastrous effects. M. Milyukov’s con-
duct caused me no surprise. After all, his share of responsi-
bility for the collapse of the Tsar’s Empire would appear to be
by no means the smallest, and when, as far back as 1921, after
the failure of Wrangel’s enterprise, Milyukov and his followers
officially proclaimed their decision to give up once for all any
Page 304
Page 304
266
THE OCHRANA
idea of opposing the Bolsheviks by force of arms, that was
only what was to be expected. But it seemed to me all the
more disconcerting that he should have found so much sup-
port among the emigrants when he committed this act of
treason against the Russian idea, and that there should not
have arisen one courageous man to put Milyukov in his proper
place.
That incident showed once more how deep and strong is
the intimate connexion between the Russian intelligentsia and
the revolutionary chaos, and how slight, in the last resort, is
the intellectual difference that separates the present rulers in
the Kremlin from their bourgeois predecessors. From the very
beginning the intellectualism of the Russian ‘Liberals, which
was absolutely opposed to the national spirit and arose out
of foreign influences, was to prove fatal to the Russian Empire,
and it is fitting that that intelligentsia, now living abroad,
should have again betrayed its native land.
I should like to state that, in my wanderings through West-
ern Europe and, finally, also during my stay in Paris, I have
found quite a number of loyal, sincere supporters of the old
régime, men who have sworn to endure every hardship and
privation, nay, even to suffer death, rather than to compromise
with the Bolsheviks and to accept, lying down, the present con-
dition of things in Russia.
Further, I have even met men who were once opponents of
the Tsardom, who consequently had come up against me in
my official capacity, but who had learned to understand how
mistaken their revolutionary opinions had been, how little
the Revolution had profited the Russian people, how frightful
and disastrous, rather, it had proved. Is it not significant that
Peter Struve, once the father of Russian Marxism and the
personal teacher of Lenin, has to-day repented and abjured his
former views and recognized the Grand Duke Nikolai Niko-
Page 305
Page 305
THE OCHRANA
267
layevitsh as the true leader of Russia? How far this man,
openly acknowledging his previous aberrations, towers above
those lukewarm patriots who have not the pluck to deduce
from the events of the last ten years the only possible conclu-
sion and associate themselves whole-heartedly with the Mon-
archist idea!
Page 306
Page 306
CHAPTER XXII
The Tsar’s Pocket-handkerchief—False Notions about the Ochrana cur-
rent abroad—Real Significance of Banishment
to Siberia—Humane
Treatment of Political Prisoners in Old Russia—Ochrana and Tsheka—
How the Bolsheviks mislead Foreign Visitors—Burtsev recommends
that the Ochrana should be maintained—Unsuccessful Recruiting
NCE in Tsarist Russia, when the Special Corps of Gen-
() darmerie, the predecessor of the Ochrana, was being
founded, Count Benkendorff, who had just been appointed to
the command of this body, appeared before the Emperor, »
Nicholas I, and asked for more detailed instructions. Instead
of making any formal reply, however, the monarch pulled out
a white handkerchief and handed it to the Count, saying, “Dry
the tears of the oppressed. May your conscience and the con-
science of your subordinates ever remain as stainless as this
linen!”
The Political Police of Tsarist Russia, from that time on-
ward, always acted in keeping with those truly sublime words
spoken by the ruler, and if the Empire of the Tssars, like
every other state, did have to protect itself from the under-
ground intrigues of hostile powers, yet the Ochrana, in the
means it adopted, never went beyond the methods in use in
other lands.
;
It must be admitted that, from the start, the Russian Police
had a much more difficult task to perform than the Police of
any country in Western Europe. I do not mean because the
Russian people in the mass was more troublesome to rule, or
because the institutions of the Empire were to be maintained
only by force. But while in England, France, and America
the intelligent classes of the people in earlier times were always
genuine patriots and fought to uphold the national i
institutions,
268
Page 307
Page 307
THE OCHRANA
269
that was in Russia unfortunately not the case, and had not
been so from the first years of the nineteenth century.
Ideas derived from foreign sources
and misunderstood
early permeated the educated classes in Russia and filled them
with quite erroneous notions. Instead of considering that the
circumstances in our country were entirely different from those
prevailing in the West, and that the mechanical transplanta-
tion into Russia of European conceptions of liberty could do
nothing but harm, as these ideas had grown up under quite
other conditions and were in conflict with the spirit of the
Russian population, the zntelligentsia at once set about slavishly
moulding Russia anew in accordance with the schemes of
Western theorists. And, with this end in view, their first con-
cern was to destroy utterly all that the Tsars with their coun-
sellors and servants had laboriously built up in the course of
ages.
In face of those incessant attempts to undermine the order
of the State, the Tsarist authorities really practised leniency
to excess; and if the Government of the Empire can be justly
reproached with any dereliction of duty, it is only that it stood
too much upon its dignity and showed too much restraint in
neglecting to enlighten people abroad, as it might have done,
as to the real conditions existing in Russia. Consequently pub-
lic opinion in the West was wholly at the mercy of those pur-
veyors of false information who sought to further the success
of their own delusions by persistent and, alas, only too suc-
cessful propaganda. Otherwise it would be beyond compre-
hension that, to this day, in Europe and America such
completely false and perverted opinions still exist as to the
actual conditions under the rule of the Tsars.
What misunderstandings have been caused by one thing
alone—the practice followed in Russia of banishing criminals
to Siberia! Many and many a time I have met educated per-
Page 308
Page 308
270
THE OCHRANA
sons in Germany and France who believed in all seriousness
that “the horrors of Siberia” of themselves morally justified
the Revolution.
Now what were the facts with regard to these ‘horrors’?
First of all it must be stated emphatically that real hard labour
in the mines was never inflicted except upon such criminals
as in other countries would have suffered the death penalty.
For in our ‘backward’ land of Russia capital punishment had
long ago been abolished in the cases of ordinary offenders and
replaced by exile to Siberia. The only crimes punishable by
death were the murder or attempted murder of any member
of the Imperial family, and even with such criminals, and
they were unfortunately only too numerous, the sentence was
often enough commuted by special grace to banishment.
When people abroad hear any allusion to convicts in the
Siberian mines, they usually think at once of political offend-
ers. But these, as a rule, were condemned merely to “adminis-
trative relegation,” and this penalty, which was really nothing
more than a measure of self-protection adopted by the State
against its enemies, did not in any sense come up to the lurid
conception that people in the West used to entertain of exile
to Siberia. This “administrative relegation” meant merely that
those falling under the sentence were obliged to reside for a
certain period in some locality East of the Urals; without per-
mission from the authorities they were not allowed to leave
the district, but within the prescribed limits they were able
to move about in perfect freedom. Consider, moreover, that
the places to which political offenders were exiled were mostly
situated in regions where the climate was rather favourable,
and that the exiles were permitted to enjoy ordinary social
intercourse among themselves, to read, write, and carry on
their trades or professions as they chose, and it will be seen
that this system, applied by Tsarist Russia for the temporary
Page 309
Page 309
PoiticaL ExILEs IN SjBERIA UNDER THE TsARDOM
Page 310
Page 310
eaouopiuds
“PL ‘1oyesr1dsuod uewoM snowry 94} SI 91}U90 94} UT
NOSIU MSIALVAY NI SAUX IVOLLIIOd
Page 311
Page 311
a
TSA
Rahs
THE OCHRANA
271
removal of its most dangerous foes, must be characterized as
extremely humane.
It should suffice to point out that almost all the men in
power in the Russia of the Revolution had been in their time
exiled to Siberia. That fact alone shows how little the punish-
ment was in truth calculated to undermine the vigour of
those upon whom it was imposed. Not one had had even a
serious illness during his banishment, not one had suffered
ill-treatment, and they all came back from Siberia with energy
enough to carry to success their sinister work.
With such “merciless measures” did we, the officials of
Tsarist Russia, seek to defend the State, until the revolutionaries
took the helm and proclaimed that now barbarism would give
way to humanity, and oppression be replaced by freedom. It
has been shown how the first step taken by the new régime
was to cast into prison many conscientious servants of the Em-
peror, with a view to bringing them to justice, the result of
this first manifestation of ‘liberty’ being simply to prove clearly
that no illegal act could be brought home to any one of us.
When, with the October Revolution, the Bolsheviks came
into power, no one henceforth took the trouble to adopt any
formality at all with representatives of the old order: they
were merely arrested and slaughtered wholesale, and all in
the name of liberty and humanity. Whoever had once be-
longed to the Ochrana was now regarded as the lowest crimi-
nal among the people; to persecute him, to murder him, was
the duty of every honest and loyal Communist.
But at the very time when a barbarous war of annihilation
was being waged against those unfortunates who, inspired
by the best intentions, had once striven to serve the State and
the common weal, a new Ochrana arose differing from its
predecessor only by its use of means a thousand times more
objectionable
and unscrupulous.
This
was
the infamous
Page 312
Page 312
272
THE OCHRANA
Tsheka} which to this day, under the new name G.P.U.,” is
carrying on its unparalleled reign of terror all over Russia,
and by which every year thousands of innocent men and
women are sacrificed.
By a fortunate combination of circumstances I am in a posi-
tion to give absolutely authentic and reliable information about
the working and organization of the Tsheka, and thus to show
the European public how things really are in the Communistic
State of freedom and equality. For, while the majority of the
Ochrana officials have fallen victims to the fury of the Red
Terror, the new rulers deemed it expedient in some cases to
compel officials of the Tsarist Police Service, by threats of
death, to continue their work in the Tsheka. One of the men
who thus agreed, against their convictions, to act as policeman
for the Bolsheviks made it his business not merely to mitigate
the evil brought upon Russia by the Tsheka, but also by round-
about ways to convey abroad evidence of the activities of the
“New Ochrana.”
That is how I have come into possession of important docu-
mentary proofs, which I hesitate the less to make public be-
cause my informant has meanwhile paid for his boldness and
his enterprise with death. He died in the prisons of the Tsheka,
remaining to the end faithful in his devotion to the Old Rus-
sian Idea, and his communications should serve to enlighten
European public opinion as to the true spirit of Soviet rule.
This is all the more necessary because the ‘unbiased’ news-
paper reporters, publicists, trade-union members, experts, and
merchants who, for some years past, have continually been
visiting Russia bring back with them impressions that are
quite ill-founded. Very few of them are aware of the net that,
*Tshe and Ka are the initials of two Russian words meaning Extraordinary Com-
mission.
— TRANSLATOR,
* The initials of the Russian for State Police Department.—TRANSLATOR.
a
Page 313
Page 313
PouitrcaL
Exmres
RerurNING
From
SIBERIA
IN
1917
Page 314
Page 314
AdIM\ S,NINIT
NOSIN NI ANSLOWY,
VAVSdNUY
VAONILNVISNOY
VaHSadvN
Page 315
Page 315
THE OCHRANA
273
from the moment they cross the frontier, surrounds them all
the time, preventing them from catching a glimpse of any-
thing, from even hearing a word, that might not suit the men
in power in the Kremlin. If the world had to depend only
upon such accounts of Soviet Russia, then there would be
little hope that the truth would ever come to light, for Europe
would never learn anything but what the Soviet Government
intends or desires to publish. All the impressions received, all
expressions of opinion heard by the foreign visitor, are care-
fully staged and disseminated, so that the stranger naively be-
lieves that he is making “unprejudiced study” of the facts,
while he is really being shown round by the Tsheka and de-
ceived at every step. What foreigner is there who has ever been
able to peep behind the scenes devised for him? What he
sees are hygienic and humanitarian arrangements intended for
his edification. What he hears are the words of paid agents,
or terrorized citizens, who would never dare to utter a criticism
that would involve them in trouble, imperilling their own lives
and those of their dependents. And thus it is that the dark side
of Bolshevik rule, with its medieval prisons and torture-cham-
bers, with its unheard-of terrors of every kind, is concealed
from the eye of the visitor; and only he who knows the Tsheka
and its secrets from within can declare the truth about them.
When, after the Revolution of February 1917, the revolu-
tionaries returned in troops from banishment or from abroad,
Burtsev was the only one who advised the new rulers to
preserve the Ochrana as an institution, staffing it with men
of “revolutionary convictions.” He thought that even ‘liberated’
Russia would very soon require a Secret Police for its de-
fence. But Kerensky, with his sentimental swagger, declared
that, with the Revolution, the “shameful” Ochrana had ceased
to exist for ever, and that the free Republic would get along
without such an instrument. So the Ochrana Sections were
Page 316
Page 316
274
THE OCHRANA
broken up, their personnel being thrown into prison or sent
to the Front, and the names of the secret agents, so far as the
new Government got to know them, were published in the
Russian and foreign Press.
However, in a very short time the new masters began to
shake in their shoes, dreading attempts upon their lives. Then,
as the power of the Bolsheviks grew stronger and stronger, and
the situation of the Provisional Government became more and
more precarious, Kerensky was the first to open negotiations
with the former heads of the Ochrana, myself included, to see
whether we were willing to assist the Government with our
experience in its struggle against the extremists of the Left.
Commissary Svatyikov, who had been sent abroad to wind
up the Foreign Department of the Ochrana, was suddenly
given other instructions, and now endeavoured to recruit the
members of the former Ochrana Service in Paris for the Pro-
visional Government, but, I must say, without finding his
advances very warmly received. Evidently Kerensky and his
associates had now perceived that even they could not do with-
out the support of a Political Secret Police. They made every
effort to recall to life the very organization that they had only
six months before sentimentally condemned and _ practically
destroyed. If that Government had been vouchsafed a longer
life, the Ochrana, with a considerable number of its former
employees, would probably have celebrated its resurrection.
But then came the October Revolution, which put an end to
Kerensky’s brief glory and installed the Bolshevik system.
Only a few weeks later in the place of the Ochrana arose the
Tsheka.
Page 317
Page 317
CHAPTER XXIII
The Tsheka and its Founder, Jerzhinsky—Origin and First Organization
of the Tsheka—Agents of the Red Terror—Commissaries of the People
themselves the Prisoners of the Tsheka—Economic Espionage—Sum-
>
ica
2
mary Judicial Procedure—Provocation”—“Entered under Outgoings’—
Postal Censorship—Siberia To-day—Hostage System
HE cradle of the Tsheka was the Smolny Institute, once
an educational establishment for daughters of the no-
bility, after the October Revolution the seat of the Soviet Gov-
ernment. The men assembled there, with Lenin at their head,
though devoid of all practical experience, undertook to rule
the Empire along entirely new and untried lines laid down
solely according to their own over-subtle political theories. And
no doubt, from the very beginning they must have feared
that the Russian people would not be disposed to accept all
their hare-brained measures without a protest. So, during the
first months of their unaccustomed authority, they were all
the time in mortal fear, and they hailed with delight the cun-
ning Pole, Felix Edmundovitsh Jerzhinsky, when he offered
to look after their safety.
Jerzhinsky, a man who, for cold-blooded cruelty, could have
given points to Marat, was only too pleased to seize the op-
portunity afforded him of inaugurating in Petersburg a reign
of terror. He at once had set up an “Extraordinary Commis-
sion to deal with Counter-revolution, Speculation, and Sa-
botage,” the personal management of which he reserved for
himself. Thus arose the Tsheka, whose name is nothing more
than a juxtaposition of the initials, Tshe and Ka, of the Rus-
sian words for Extraordinary Commission. Jerzhinsky took
jealous care from the start that his powers should be unre-
stricted in every way, for the Commissaries of the People,
275
Page 318
Page 318
276
THE OCHRANA
trembling for their lives, hastened to comply unreservedly with
all his demands. It was decreed that the Tsheka should not,
like the Police in other lands, be under the jurisdiction of the
Home Office, but should be responsible directly to the whole
Government. That provision alone guaranteed to it the ab-
solute control of the whole land, and made of it an instrument
a thousand times more dangerous than the Ochrana had been.
In Tsarist Russia, of course, the whole Police system was im-
mediately subordinate to the Ministry of the Interior, which
exercised permanent and minute supervision over its conduct,
while now the Council of Commissaries of the People was
neither disposed nor competent to control in each case the
measures applied by Jerzhinsky.
Soon the Tsheka began its raids in Petersburg, arresting on
all sides individuals who were in any way objectionable in its
eyes, and every day hurling at haphazard many innocent
victims into the Beyond. For this unique authority had, from
its inception, united in itself the functions of the Police and
those of the Judiciary—that is, it not merely made arrests, but
acted at one and the same time as judge, accuser, and execu-
tioner. From then onward no one in Russia was sure of his
life, a condition that continues to this day.
When the Soviet Government migrated to Moscow, the
seat of the Tsheka was likewise transferred, its notorious
Headquarters being established in Lyublyanka Street. In Pe-
tersburg the chief office was removed to a block of buildings
in Gorochovaya Street, and the management entrusted to the
equally bloodthirsty Uritsky. This man was soon overtaken
by his well-deserved fate; he was murdered by the Revolu-
tionary Socialist Kannegiesser. Jerzhinsky immediately used
this incident as a pretext to have his powers extended, and to
develop still further the formidable organization of the Tsheka.
The men of the new order had almost without exception
Page 319
Page 319
TsHEKA
HeapquarTERs
IN
Moscow
Page 320
Page 320
VMAHS],
AL
JO
AVAPT
‘AMSNIHZUS(
Page 321
Page 321
THE OCHRANA
2F
been engaged in the work of conspiracy under the Tsardom,
and in their years of contest with the Ochrana they had ac-
quired a very wide experience. They therefore knew exactly
how conspiracies had to be organized, and now that they had
arrived at the helm they were able to take all precautions to
ensure that any counter-revolutionary movement would be
nipped in the bud. For this purpose Jerzhinsky created a ma-
chine that put the old Tsarist Secret Police hopelessly in the
shade in respect of its perfection and extent.
After the first period of disorder and terror was over, the
Tsheka was constituted of two main divisions: the Counter-
espionage Section and the Secret Operative Section. The
function of the former was to keep a careful watch upon all
movements opposed to the Government, and, as under the
rule of the Tsar, this task was performed, above all, by an
elaborately thought-out External Agency. Thousands of per-
sons were compelled, partly by persuasion or bribery and
partly by threats of death, to assist in the counter-espionage.
They included officers in the Red Army, women of every
social class, politicians, clergymen, as well as workmen and
peasants. Methods adopted were those that had been in vogue
in the time of the Ochrana. Names of agents were also kept
strictly private, being known only to those right at the top.
Every week all the agents had to report to the chiefs of their
Sections and to put before them the results of their work. The
material reward earned by these people was very meagre, for
the Soviet State had ways and means sufficient to oblige re-
calcitrants, in spite of poor pay, to serve the Tsheka.
In all central and local government offices branches of the
Tsheka were set up as far back as 1918, so that before long
there was hardly even one tiny town or village in Russia
where Jerzhinsky’s agents were not at work, in order that all
Page 322
Page 322
278
THE OCHRANA
resistance to the revolutionary order might be suppressed in
blood.
And quite as remarkable as any other feature was the zeal
with which Jerzhinsky from the outset had his own superiors,
the Commissaries of the People, and the other principal leaders
of the Soviet Government, kept under observation. When,
after some time, several States, misled by the vain hope of
doing a profitable trade, resumed diplomatic relations with
the Soviet Republic, Jerzhinsky immediately sent out his agents
to spy upon every word and act of the Ambassadors of the
Soviets.
Soon the Commissaries of the People realized that they them-
selves were the prisoners of the Tsheka, but the mutual dis-
trust among these “popular leaders,” and their dread of possible
attack upon their lives by Russian citizens of different political
faith had become so great that no one dared to infringe the
absolute authority that Jerzhinsky had acquired.
More and more, too, the countless Communist organizations,
local party groups, associations of youth, newspaper offices, and
schools were called in to co-operate with the Tsheka Espionage
Service; so that not merely the actual employees of the Tsheka,
but all the Communists of the whole Empire became actively
involved in the observation of each other and of everybody
else.
The invention of “Economic Espionage,” an institution till
then unknown in any part of the world, provided the Tsheka
with a pretext for interfering in all, even the most innocent,
concerns, of every Russian. For after it had become quite evi-
dent that the Communist trading policy, from which Lenin
and Company had expected to see arise unheard-of prosperity
in the land, had ended in complete collapse, attempts had to
be made to suppress with violent measures the ‘contraband’
Page 323
Page 323
THE OCHRANA
279
traffic, which kept on growing and growing, because without
it no one could procure even the necessary means of subsistence.
Many dealers and peasants, whose only offence had been the
purchase or sale of a few pounds of flour or butter absolutely
required to sustain life, were sacrificed to the Tsheka’s insane
lust of persecution, being imprisoned and shot as persons who
had committed “crimes against Communist public order.” It
hardly requires to be stated that the ‘guardians of the law’
made the most of the welcome opportunities to enrich them-
selves by ‘confiscating, on their own account, the monies or
stocks of provisions which were found on hand in such cases,
or by extorting large sums from their unhappy victims.
The vast proportions assumed by the scandalous state of mat-
ters in the Tsheka are perhaps best indicated by the fact that
even the Revolutionary tribunals, which in virtue of their very
constitution naturally had the warmest sympathy for criminals,
were nevertheless obliged to pronounce sentence of death upon
numerous officials of the Tsheka for abuse of authority.
But if the fury of the Tsheka was in itself an unparalleled
reign of terror, the desperate plight of the Russian people was
aggravated a thousand times by the power arrogated to itself
by the Tsheka of not merely making arrests, but of at once
sitting in judgment upon the prisoners. The procedure was
a model of simplicity. There was no form of trial. The accused
was merely brought in, charged with an offence, questioned
about his accomplices, and then condemned, no matter whether
he had confessed or not, no matter whether there was evidence
against him or nothing more than groundless suspicion. If, in
rare cases, the Tsheka decided to release an arrested person,
that by no means provided the fortunate one with any guaran-
tee that he would not be seized again a week later and this
time condemned.
A verdict of guilty was generally followed by sentence of
Page 324
Page 324
280
THE OCHRANA
death, which was pronounced under the high-sounding name
of “the highest measure of social defence.” The execution was
regularly carried out by shooting in the Tsheka building: a
revolver-shot was fired into the back of the head. The bodies
of victims were not handed over to relatives, but simply buried
anywhere. That was the means adopted by the Tsheka to ren-
der it impossible to check the real numbers of people butchered.
Of course there was no lack of those “provocations” with
which the Tsarist Police had always been reproached, un-
justly as we have seen, by the revolutionaries. As Tsheka spies
very often received a reward if they managed to get hold of
a ‘profiteer’ or a ‘hoarder,’ no one could feel safe. Incriminat-
ing material evidence might be smuggled into one’s home,
and the consequence might be death and loss of fortune. Typi-
cal of the businesslike procedure adopted by the Tsheka was
the technical expression used in the Police jargon to indicate
executions: the victims of their unique justice were referred to
as “having been entered under outgoings.”
In its method of dealing with secret agents, also, the Tsheka
very quickly marked the difference between itself and the
Police under the Tsars, the change being very much for the
worse. While those at the head of the Ochrana had always
endeavoured to take into consideration, as far as possible, the
psychological difficulties of their subordinates, and rather to
dismiss them from the Service than to imperil their lives in
any way, Jerzhinsky abolished the dismissal of secret agents
on principle. Whoever, whether voluntarily or under compul-
sion, once entered the service of the Tsheka could now escape
from it only by death. And woe to the agent who, by a rash
word or an awkward step, warned the counter-revolutionary
he was watching! Such unfortunates were, as a rule, arrested at
once and banished for many years to the Solovyetsky Mon-
astery.
Page 325
Page 325
THE OCHRANA
281
It is no matter for surprise that the “black cabinets” were in-
troduced again by the Tsheka. Far from respecting the privacy
of correspondence, the Bolshevik Police installed branches in
all the larger post offices, whose business it was to keep an eye
on all the mails. These “black cabinets” assumed special im-
portance when postal connexion with foreign countries was
resumed, for now it was a question of preventing from cross-
ing the frontier a single word of truth concerning Russian
conditions. With all modern technical contrivances, electrical
and X-ray apparatus, photographic appliances, chemical means
of all sorts, the whole of the foreign mail was kept under
strict surveillance. If anyone had been so impudent as to write
in a letter one phrase in criticism of the Soviet system, he
could be quite certain of being immediately arrested and im-
prisoned. And, on the other hand, the importation of all
newspapers and books disapproved of by the Bolsheviks was
stopped in the same way, so that henceforth no one living
within the Russian frontiers should be able to learn what was
going on in the rest of the world, and what people in Europe
and America were thinking of Soviet Russia.
The new rulers had for the most part returned from Si-
berian exile to enter the Kremlin. What could be more natural
than that they should now send all whom they deemed ob-
jectionable to Siberia? This appeared the more expedient be-
cause meanwhile all the prisons had been crowded with victims
of the Red Terror and some relief proved to be urgently re-
quired. Accordingly those guilty of ‘minor’ offences, such as
peasants who had made known their devotion to the Church,
or merchants who had carried on ‘contraband’ trade in provi-
sions, were banished for some years to the most distant parts
of Siberia. Those crimes, however, which under the rule of
the Tsars had been punished by exile, such as the publication
of forbidden printed matter or participation in the work of
Page 326
Page 326
282
- THE OCHRANA
illegal societies, were, by the Tsheka, punished unhesitatingly
by death, while at the same time the remotest connexion with
one of the accused in any given case would often suffice to
bring ruin and destruction upon perfectly innocent persons.
But all the horrors of this system were far surpassed by the
barbarous custom of taking hostages. The Tsheka has made its
own a usage known to the most uncivilized tribes and high-
way robbers: it has no scruples whatever in arresting the re-
lations or dependents of a wanted man and in keeping them
languishing in prison until he gives himself up. Further, every
Russian who wishes to obtain a permit to travel abroad must
make known to the Tsheka the names and addresses of all
the members of his family residing in Russia, and it is plainly
signified to him that they will at once be made subject to the
vengeance of the Tsheka if he should take it into his head
while he is abroad to utter one word in criticism of the condi-
tions in Soviet Russia.
Page 327
Page 327
CHAPTER XXIV
Collapse of Communist Economic System—‘Abolition’ of Tsheka—
Revival under another Name—Refined methods of the G.P.U.—Farce
of Bolshevik Administration of Justice—G.P.U. Foreign Service—Spying
upon Russian Refugees and Foreigners travelling in Russia—Eye of
Moscow”—Secret Section of G.P.U.—Continued Persecution of Monarch-
ists.
T WAS inevitable that the insane attempt of the Bolsheviks
to introduce into Russia between one day and the next a
Communist economic system should end very quickly in per-
fect fiasco. Famine, lack of the most vital necessities, the fabu-
lous depreciation of the money, and the menace of unrest that
was steadily growing throughout the whole population seemed
to make it almost impossible to avoid the complete collapse of
the Soviet domination.
Lenin, however, was shrewd enough to recognize at the
last moment that the system could be saved only by departing,
temporarily and apparently, from original principles. As he
was not disposed under any circumstances to give up the su-
preme power, he determined to swerve quite definitely for a
little toward the Right, correctly assuming that he would
thereby gain time to draw breath, and that during that inter-
val the tottering Soviet Government would once more be able
to re-establish its authority. Therefore permission was granted
off-hand for the carrying on, within certain limitations, of
private trade, which till then had been most strictly prohibited;
and every effort was made, by holding out the prospect of
exorbitant profits, to interest foreign capital in Russia. That,
then, was the beginning of the New Economic Policy, that
senseless, cross-bred invention to which the Bolsheviks owe the
continuance of their power to this day.
283
Page 328
Page 328
284
.
THE OCHRAXKA
Meanwhile, however, despite all attempts to isolate the coun-
try, rumours concerning the existence and modus operandi of
the Tsheka had found their way abroad. At first people had
believed that what they heard was nothing more than fantastic
tales of imagination, but very soon European opinion became
convinced and had to recognize, with revulsion and horror,
that the deeds of terror done by the Tsheka did really surpass
the monstrous creations of the wildest fancy. Under such cir-
cumstances the gentlemen in the Kremlin saw very clearly
that a resumption of economic relations between Russia and
the democratic Western States was out of the question. That
meant, as the Soviet régime was in dire need of moral and
financial credit abroad, that the Tsheka was rather a serious
obstacle. Without any more ado then, the Tsheka was abol-
ished—at least in appearance.
Superficially altered, its powers were transferred to a new
institution bearing the name of State Police Department, or,
to use the initials of the Russian designation, G.P.U. Foreign
correspondents were solemnly informed that the times of War
Communism, and with them the days of the Terror, were now
over, and that the G.P.U. would henceforth exercise no other
powers than the Political Police of other lands. They even went
so far as to place the G.P.U. under the control of the Home
Office, or rather the People’s Commissariat of the Interior,
and thereby to seem to distinguish it from the Tsheka, which,
of course, had not been responsible to any of the ministries.
Besides, it was affirmed that the G.P.U. would no longer have
the right to dispose of cases coming under its purview: ar-
rested persons were, in accordance with the procedure generally
followed in democratic States, to be handed over to the regular
tribunals. This seemed a mighty step forward, considering
the position the Tsheka had occupied; and the provision which
authorized the G.P.U. to keep untried suspects arbitrarily in
Page 329
Page 329
THE OCHRANA
285
confinement for a period of not more than three months
seemed in comparison to be merely a slight blemish.
In reality, however, this apparent transformation of the
Tsheka, which had been made for no other reason than to
conciliate foreign public opinion, effected not the least change
in practice. As before, the G.P.U. operates with the same
medieval inquisitorial methods, with the same cruelty and
terror, with the same absolute powers as its predecessor. No
doubt such officials of the G.P.U. as come in contact with
a stranger visiting Russia are most charming and amiable,
most convincing in the correctness of their bearing. But once
the prison doors have closed behind a victim of its hate, so
that all risk of ‘indiscretions’ has ceased, the G.P.U. drops
the mask and reveals itself in its true colours: the same cruel,
bloodthirsty, and unscrupulous Tsheka as it was when it
reigned in terror, open and unashamed.
For, even though the pressure of foreign opinion has obliged
the Bolsheviks to introduce at least the semblance of some
kind of orderly administration of justice, there are numerous
paragraphs in the Soviet code that are so infinitely elastic in
their application that the G.P.U. may still legally deal with
obnoxious individuals by inflicting the penalty of prison, exile,
or death. For this purpose no more is required than the per-
fectly vague conception of “political” or “economic counter-
revolution”; or than the provision that anyone is liable to be
punished whose actions are in any sense opposed to the success
of the Communist political system. Only the artless and un-
suspecting foreigner will ever be so far cheated over the real
character of Russian administration of the law as to accept
at its face value the institution of People’s Courts, which, on
paper, seems to correspond to trial by jury in Western Europe.
As a matter of fact, these People’s Courts are so constituted
that they have no will of their own and comply at once with
Page 330
Page 330
286
THE OCHRANA
the wishes of the G.P.U. And, besides, to this day there are
still innumerable victims of the new Tsheka who are merely
suppressed in the gaols without ever being brought before
a judge.
Only in one respect is the G.P.U. to be distinguished from
its immediate predecessor: its methods are more refined and
perfected. The consequence is that Russia to-day is covered
by such a close network of political espionage as never existed
in the world before. In the large cities there are hundreds
and thousands of secret agents in the pay of the G.P.U., watch-
ing every intellectual movement in the country. The postal
censorship has been still better organized, and even on the
mail-trains technical experts of the G.P.U. now travel regu-
larly, to see to the scientific opening and examination of all
correspondence
that looks in any way
suspicious. Their
methods are so skilful that the receiver has no means of know-
ing that letters have been tampered with, even though the en-
velopes have been opened in transit three or four times.
Specialists devote themselves to the reading of invisible inks,
to the decoding of ciphers, and to the translation of messages
in foreign languages.
The G.P.U. has also further developed the practice of keep-
ing under observation Soviet officials and even the Commis-
saries of the People. It is the duty of every head of a
Government office to send in a monthly report on the political
leanings of his subordinates; and, on the other hand, countless
agents of the Political Police stationed in the offices through-
out the Empire take care that the superiors are looked after in
like manner.
In comparison with this secret work, the public activities
of the G.P.U. are almost insignificant. There are, indeed, also
uniformed officials in the service of this authority who, like
the gendarmes in Tsarist Russia, have to supervise especially
Page 331
Page 331
THE OCHRANA
287
the traffic on the railways and shipping, but everyone knows
that, relatively to the numbers of secret agents and spies scat-
tered everywhere, these uniformed men are only a dwindling
minority.
It has been pointed out that the Ochrana used to maintain
a foreign branch to keep watch upon revolutionaries living
beyond the frontiers; the G.P.U. did not hesitate to imitate
the system and to perfect it still further. It is amazing to note
the incomprehensible unconcern shown by the European
Powers in allowing Soviet ‘missions, with extraordinarily
numerous personnel, to settle down in their capitals. By far
the majority of the countless individuals attached to the staffs
of these trade delegations, Red Cross missions, legations, and
embassies have no official occupation. They are nothing more
or less than agents of the G.P.U. commissioned to spy upon
the Russian refugees, to arrange criminal attacks upon dan-
gerous opponents of Bolshevism, to keep under close observa-
tion artists, scholars, and actors on ‘leave of absence’ from Rus-
sia, and to see that Moscow is regularly informed as to their
attitude.
The Foreign Agency of the G.P.U. is always very desirous
of getting into touch with any organized group of refugees,
in order to find out what matters are under discussion and
what decisions are being taken. Its agents are so skilful that,
unfortunately, they have scored success in many an unlikely
enterprise. As they have plenty of money to spend, and as, on
the other hand, the whilom Tsarist officials in exile are often
in the direst need, it has more than once occurred that an
emigrant here and there has succumbed to temptation and ac-
cepted the suggestion to enter the Secret Service. That such
a proposal was made to myself I have related in an earlier
chapter; and I am still grateful to God this day that He
Page 332
Page 332
288
THE OCHRANA
granted me the power to reject the offer in the only proper
fashion.
Another of the duties that fall to the Foreign Agency is to
make preliminary and very exact inquiries into the political
views, the mode of life, and the circle of acquaintance of all
persons intending to visit Soviet Russia for purposes of ob-
servation and study. This espionage practised upon such for-
eign travellers begins before they have even left their homes,
but the G.P.U., as a rule, sets about it with such adroitness
that the individuals in question have not the least idea that
every step they take is being noted. It does not require to be
stated that the observation becomes a hundredfold more in-
tense once the foreigner has passed the Russian frontier: after
all, there is not in Soviet Russia a single railway-train that
does not carry agents of the G.P.U., there is not a hotel where
a majority of the staff does not consist of paid Police spies.
The stranger cannot write or receive a letter without its being
opened and copied; he cannot pay a visit without the fact
being recorded in the notebook of the agents in attendance
upon him. Every foreign subject resident in Russia has his
own dossier in the G.P.U., containing copies of his entire cor-
respondence, and memoranda of his conversation and movye-
ments.
All Russians know that foreigners are subjected to this min-
ute espionage, and consequently avoid, as far as they can,
having any dealings with them at all; otherwise they run the
risk of being summoned before the G.P.U. to undergo a search-
ing cross-examination on the conversation that has passed. That
is why strangers travelling in Russia never happen to hear a
word in criticism of existing conditions, unless it be that the
critic is himself an agent of the G.P.U.
For the Soviet Government has a masterly understanding of
how best to influence the minds of foreigners. It knows that
Page 333
Page 333
RENE
here and there some criticism there must be, if the foreigner’s
suspicions are not to be aroused; so the G.P.U. provides the
requisite criticism through its own channels, by bringing the
stranger in an apparently natural way into touch with its
agents, who, wearing the mask of ordinary citizens, merchants,
workmen, or officials, represent the required ‘voice of the
people.’
The evidence accumulated concerning both guests and the
doings of emigrants resident abroad is collected in a special
section of the central office of the G.P.U. in Moscow, and sys-
tematically analysed. From there also are sent out instructions
to the employees of the Foreign Agency, so that nothing tak-
ing place anywhere in the world, of a character hostile to the
Soviet régime, may escape the “Eye of Moscow.’
:
The struggle against the internal enemies of Bolshevism is
conducted by the Secret Section of the G.P.U., with its many
Sub-sections. Special departments work up the material relat-
ing to the Mensheviks,’ Revolutionary Socialists, the Clergy,
and the Monarchists. A recently invented cartographic system
used by the heads of these Sections enables them to overlook
quickly all the “nests of conspirators” that actually do exist,
or are supposed to exist, all over Russia.
The institution of the secret rendezvous, too, as it had been
formerly used to facilitate intercourse between the officials of
the Ochrana and their secret agents, was taken up again by the’
G.P.U. Such secret quarters are looked after by special col-
laborators who, themselves, never go near the office of the
G.P.U., and do not bear any obvious indication about them
that they belong to the Police at all. To these addresses the
agents of the Internal (System of) Observation bring their
1The Bolsheviks are the ‘whole-hoggers,’ the Mensheviks are the party of relatively
moderate revolutionaries who would have been satisfied with a more restricted, a less
extreme programme. Bolshe means ‘more,’ and menshe means ‘less,.—TRANSLATOR.
Page 334
Page 334
290
THE OCHRANA
reports, and there likewise they receive their instructions, so
that they are not obliged either to call in person at the G.P.U.
The success which these elaborate methods have made it
possible for the G.P.U. to achieve is, unfortunately, very nota-
ble. Besides, the adherents of the monarchical system had, of
course, no sort of experience in secret plotting, and for that
reason the conspiracies that have been hatched by them were
organized on lines that were both artless and amateurish. For
example, the group led by the Counter-Revolutionary Shepkin,
including some three hundred persons, mostly ex-officers, was
betrayed to the G.P.U. through the fact that its members
omitted to use their assumed names even in private intercourse
among themselves. A G.P.U. spy managed to gain the con-
fidence of the too credulous conspirators, and then procured
complete lists of the members, thereby enabling the Red Police
to suppress the whole organization. The end, of course, was
three hundred executions.
More astounding is the ease with which the G.P.U. was able
to discover a plot set on foot by the Revolutionary Socialists,
although the members of this body must have already acquired
extensive familiarity with all the mechanism of conspiracy in
its struggle with the Ochrana. In this case it was the Foreign
Section of the G.P.U. that succeeded in securing the necessary
evidence, for it managed to steal the whole of the archives of
the Revolutionary Socialist “Administrative Centre,” which
was fixed in Paris. The documents were got through to Mos-
cow, and that settled the fate of the party.
Although to-day, under the iron heel of Soviet oppression,
the Monarchist movement in Russia has been almost com-
pletely crushed, the persecution of real or alleged followers of
the Tsardom is still being carried on with undiminished bar-
barity. As late as June 1927 many persons accused of having
been parties to Monarchist conspiracies were executed, among
Page 335
Page 335
Boris SAVINKOV, REVOLUTIONARY SOCIALIST, BEFORE THE
BoLsHEVIK TRIBUNAL
Page 336
Page 336
Granp DUKE CyrIL VLADIMIROVITSH, PRESENT
CLAIMANT TO THE RussIAN THRONE
Page 337
Page 337
THE OC ARIANA
291
them being Prince Paul Dolgorukov, who had been bold
enough to make his way secretly from Rumania into Soviet
Russia; Mikulin,
a member of the Imperial Duma, who had
placed his home at the disposal of a Terrorist fighting group
of Monarchists; Prince Mestshersky, a supporter of Grand
Duke Nikolai Nikolayevitsh, and some ex-officers of the White
“Army.
Page 338
Page 338
CHAPTER XXV
Social Conditions in Bolshevik Russia—New Aristocracy and New
Bureaucracy—Persecution of Religion—Persecution of Jews—Symptoms
of Disintegration in Bolshevik Régime—Cleavage in Communist Party—
The Red Army—Discontent among the Peasants—Reasons for Con-
tinuance of Soviet Rule—Above all, Organized Fear—Europe’s Respon-
sibility—Appeal to the West.
HENEVER the Bolsheviks are called to account for
the terror practised by them they defend themselves,
as a rule, by pointing out that all this frightfulness is neces-
sary to protect the interests of the people, and to prepare the
way properly for the foundation of the “future State,” where
class shall be unknown, and freedom and equality prevail.
More than ten years have now passed, yet that ‘preparation’
has no success of any kind to its credit. Even one who may
not be convinced, as I am, that Russia can prosper and attain
to power and wealth only under a Monarchist government will
at least have to admit that Bolshevism has not fulfilled a single
one of its bombastic promises. How does it stand in reality
with the “land of freedom and equality”? Is the Russian nation
better off to-day than it was under the Tsardom? In the Com-
munistic “state of the future” are there really none who suffer
hunger and distress? Have social differences really ceased to
exist ?
No! Now, as ever, social inequality does exist. The only dif-
ference is that the classes that used to be dominant have given
way to a new aristocracy formed of arrogant despots, separated
by an iron wall of suspicion from the real people. Behind the
fortifications of the Kremlin, and closely protected by a party
guard, sit the rulers of Russia, while outside, over wide areas,
famine rages, disease is spreading and ravaging the country,
202
Page 339
Page 339
THE OCHRANA
2093
and even in Moscow tens of thousands of beggars, cripples,
and workless people are dragging out a weary and pitiful
existence.
More and more the Communist Party has adopted a strictly
aristocratic caste spirit. More and more jealously the influx of
new members is obstructed, so that the great privileges to
which partisans are entitled need not be shared among too
many ‘comrades.’
Complaint used to be made of the Tsarist officials, with
their fussiness and red tape, though this arose in most cases
only from their devotion to duty and their sense of responsi-
bility. But the Soviet régime has created an unparalleled bu-
reaucracy for its own sake: it paralyses all public life and
action, and its sole purpose is to assure a care-free existence
to the largest possible number of supporters of the Govern-
ment.
Not even to the Jews, who nevertheless had been in their
time the most ardent protagonists of the Revolution, has it
brought any improvement in their position. It is true that some
pot-house politicians of overweening ambition have suddenly
attained to absolute power, thus placing themselves in a posi-
tion to enslave and exploit millions of poor Russians. It is true
that, when Bela Kun fled from Hungary to Moscow, he was
able to occupy a splendid residence furnished with the goods
stolen from the Grand Dukes; and that Zinovyev could lead a
life of luxury, with champagne banquets and revelry of all
kinds. But those Jews who did not have the luck to come to
the top with the Revolution are to-day suffering a thousand
times more grievously than they did under the much-maligned
Anti-Semitic rule of the Tsar.
Bolshevism, which aims at the extermination of all religion,
is persecuting the Jews, as well as the Orthodox Christians, for
their faith, which the Imperial Authorities did not do. More-
Page 340
Page 340
294
' THE OCHRAXA
over, among the general population, and especially among the
peasants, there prevails more bitter animosity against the Jews
than ever, for the Russian is inclined to make Jews in the
mass responsible for the disaster brought upon the land by
the leaders of the Jewish Internationale.
.
This hostility on the part of the people is frequently re-
vealed in regular pogroms, while the Soviet Government,
which needs the peasant and is afraid of him, thinks it expe-
dient to allow free course to these outbreaks of popular pas-
sion. After all, any movement is welcome that is not directed
against the Government itself, and may therefore serve as a
safety-valve for the prevailing concealed ill-will.
Neither the persistent lying reports of the semi-official Soviet
Press nor the strict censorship and suppression of all opposi-
tion opinion can cover up the fact that the internal disintegra-
tion of the Bolshevik system is making irresistible progress.
In the last few years the Communist Party itself has split up
into factions, which are in bitter antagonism to each other:
the leaders of the Revolution of 1917 are ruthlessly thrust aside
by new men, and the Terror does not respect even the founders
of the Soviet order. The day does not appear to be far distant
when this cleavage must inevitably bring about the fall of the
whole structure, just as of yore the French Revolution was
wrecked on the dissensions of the individual groups.
The Red Army, the one and only support upon which Bol-
shevism can truly count, is likewise betraying signs of dissatis-
faction, a circumstance which is very little affected even by the
G.P.U.’s unceasing espionage of the troops. If the Soviet Goy-
ernment had expected, by the systematic removal of ex-Tsarist
officers serving in the Red Army, to cleanse the Army from
the “counter-revolutionary plague,” that measure has proved
a failure too, for the new generation of ‘Communist’ officers,
Page 341
Page 341
THE OCHRANA
205
hurriedly trained at the military colleges, has come out more
and more frequently with Anti-Soviet opinions.
That the peasants are deeply discontented with existing con-
ditions can no longer be concealed. For economic reasons the
growth of a class of large farmers has been tolerated, with
the result that the people on the land have lost again all the
apparent advantages at first conferred upon them by the Revo-
lution, while the oppressive burden of taxation is driving them
to economic ruin.
In spite of all that has been stated, the Soviet power still
seems outwardly to be as firm and strong as ever. That, at
first, is mysterious, but closer inspection finds the explanation
in quite a number of circumstances. To begin with, the fury
of the Tsheka and the G.P.U. all over the country has called
forth such an atmosphere of dread that nobody trusts anyone
else, no one believes himself safe from traitors, and everyone is
prepared to recognize in a friend or a near relative an involun-.
tary agent of the G.P.U. in disguise. This fear in which every-
body stands of everybody else naturally makes any public
manifestation of the seething discontent a very difficult matter,
and thus serves to maintain the appearance of internal peace.
All the more terrible will be the reaction when the day of
reckoning with the Soviet reign of violence does arrive!
But, to a very considerable extent, it is other countries that
must be held responsible for the continuance of the Bolshevik
system, for international capital has short-sightedly preferred
the interests of the moment to those of the future, and, aiming
at re-establishing as quickly as possible profitable business rela-
tions with Russia, has actually sought to win the favour of
the Reds. The recognition of the Soviet Government by most
of the European Powers has, unfortunately, lent it very great
support, and the credits granted to it by Europe have saved
it from inevitable collapse.
Page 342
Page 342
296
' THE OCHRANA
At one time it was a tradition among the foremost mer-
chants and traders of Europe to do business only with honest
men, and bluntly to decline even the most profitable proposals
made by suspicious customers. The World War has effected a
regrettable transformation of this business ethic, for nowadays
the commercial world does not hesitate to accord moral and
financial credit to a band of robbers and violent upstarts. On
the day when Europe understands its fatal error and radically
changes its policy toward Soviet Russia, the rule which the
Bolsheviks have established over a people of upward of one
hundred million souls will break down utterly.
And what tremendous possibilities for Europe itself would
the end of the Soviet system bring with it! Only then would
Russia awake to new life and strength, and make up for all
that it has missed under the oppression of the Red Terror. It
would have to set about building up the trade that has been
ruined and the manufactures that were so senselessly destroyed,
and to that end it would require not merely European goods,
but European brains as well, to make up for the shortage of
intellectual workers.
For in Russia there are to-day no engineers, no merchants,
no technical managers, no administrative officers who really
understand their job. The old ones have been for the most part
killed or have died of privation, and their successors, trained
by the Soviet schools, are, measured by European standards,
perfectly ignorant. Consequently, after the fall of Bolshevism,
Russia will be actually a vast colonial territory waiting for the
pioneers of European and American culture. May the West
keep this consideration in view and determine accordingly its
attitude toward Bolshevism!
Page 343
Page 343
INDEX
IN Dees eiely)
“Abnormal state” in Russia, 18
Admiralty, the, 224, 234
Agents of the External Service, 41 sqq.
Agents provocateurs, 63 sqq.
Agriculture and the Jews, 99
Alexander I, 18, 101
Alexander II, 20, 28, 36; murder of, 180
Alexander III, 91
Alexander
Michaelovitsh,
Grand Duke,
156
Alexandra
Feodorovna,
Tsarina,
rela-
tions of, with Rasputin, 132, 135 sqq.,
155, 166, 173, 175, 199; relations of,
with Badmayev, 145, 147; attacks on,
and
accusations
against,
150,
206;
Purishkyevitsh’s
letter
to, 156; rela-
tions
of, with Yussupov,
173
sqq.3
author’s
interview
with, 206; other-
wise referred to, 32, 157, 162, 177
Alexeyev, General, 217, 218, 234, 235,
236
Alexis
Nicolaievitsh,
Tsaryevitsh,
his
malady, and Rasputin and Badmayey,
137, 144
Altschiller, a merchant, 128
Ambrozilov, 207
Anarchists, the, 70; criminal, execution
of, 56; among the sects, 111, 112-113
Andronnikov, —, 199
Anna, Rasputin’s niece, 165, 167
Anti-Semitism, 98, 99, 293
Apothecary Island, 85
Archangel, 19
Army Service Corps, the, 205
Arsenals,
secret, 48
Association of Nobility, the Moscow, 201
Austria, Jewish emigration to, 103
Austrian Army, espionage in, I19,
120
Austrian
Intelligence
Service,
Jews in,
120, 121
Azef, affair, the, 73 sqq.
BaDMAYEV, PETER ALEXANDROVITSH, 143
Sqq.
Bagrov, —, 86; murder of Stolypin by,
85
207
Balk, Major-General, Chief of City Po-
lice in St Petersburg, 177, 180, 197,
198, 216, 217
Balmashov, —, 64
Baltic Provinces, spy-mania in, 117, 118
Banishment, administrative,
19, 203 re-
turn of new rulers from, 195
Bavaria, revolution in, 264
Bazilyevsky,
President,
Moscow
Asso-
ciation of Nobility, 201
Beccaria, Cesare, 18
Belyetsky, Chief of Police, 245
Belyetsky, Under-Secretary,
149
Benkendorff, Count, 28
Berlin, 106
Betushev, Chancellor, 91
Biron, Chancellor, 38
Black
Cabinets,
of the Ochrana,
the,
275-20,
90,
92,
123.)
2olsmeorethic
Tsheka, 281
‘Blank addresses,’ 69
Bolshevik
Army,
the,
277.
See
also
Red Army, the
Bolshevik Central Committee, the, 245
Bolshevik
Government,
the,
97,
129,
265, 273; cruelties of, 271 sqq.
Bolshevik
Party,
St Petersburg
Com-
mittee of, captured, 214; leaders
of,
253
Bolshevik Revolt of July 1917, 252 sqq.,
261
Bolshevik Revolution, the, 246, 261, 271
Bolshevik School of Capri, the, 182, 183
Bolshevik system, internal disintegration
of, 292, 293
Bolshevik-Jewish
international
propa-
ganda, 99, 261
Bolsheviks,
the,
182;
defence
of the
Terror by, 294
Bolshevism, failure of, 30, 31, 296 sqq.
Bomb factories, secret, 52
Bread
Case of Nizhny-Novgorod,
the,
102
Bribery charges, a typical case, 129, 130
Buchanan, Sir George, 201
Budapest, Bolshevik insurrection in, 277
Burtsev, W., 64, 76, 96, 273
Bushinsky,
the Yussupov steward,
167
Page 344
Page 344
298
CazB-DrIVER disguise of plotters and of
spies, 42, 46
Cadet Party, the, 209, 273
Capital punishment, 19, 39, 279, 290
Capri, Bolshevik bombing training col-
lege on, 182, 183
Carlsbad, 128
Catherine II, Empress, 18, 109
Central Agency, the, 73
Chabalov, General, 213, 214, 225
Charkov, 92
Chlysty, the, 110
Christianity and persecution, 15, 16
Church,
the
Russian,
devotion
to,
a
‘minor’ offence, 295
Chvostov, —, 113, 149
Cipher,
use
of, by Ochrana
and
by
plotters, 69, 93, 943 decoding of, 94
$QQ-» 123
Citizen, a journal, 62
Citizenship
of
Jews
returned
from
U.S.A., 103
Clergy, the, and the G.P.U., 293
Code language, 43
Commissaries
of the People,
the, and
the Tsheka and G.P.U., 290
Communism of the Russian Dissenting
sects, 107
Communist Party, splits in, 295
Communist system, the, 283
Communist
trading
policy,
failure
of,
284
Communists, the, and the Tsheka, 279,
291
Conspirators
as inquisitors—see Tsheka
Constituent National Assembly, the, 184
Corn, Jewish profiteering in, 101-102
Corporal punishment, 16, 18, 25
Corps of Gendarmerie, the, 18, 28, 38,
90, 91, 210, 253
Cossacks, 207, 213
Council of Jewish People in New York,
the, 104, 105
Council of Workmen’s
Representatives,
the, 206
Counter-espionage Section of the Tsheka,
288
Cracoy, 191
Crimea, the, 83, 157, 174
‘Crimes of the Tsardom,’ 243, 244
Criminal Police, the, 53
Cruelty in the Russian character and in
Russian government systems,
15, 16,
INDEX
17, 18, 25, 28, 29. See also G.P.U.
and Tsheka
“DanisH CaBLe,” the, 249
Defensive Section of the Ochrana, the,
185
Dekabrist revolt, the, 19
Democratic Socialists, the, 62
Demons, The (Dostoyevsky), 179
Dezyatovsk, mame
assumed by Sabler,
RES
Dimitry Pavlovitsh, Grand Duke,
155,
171, 173, 178
Disguises, 38, 43, 44, 46
Dissenters and religious sects, 108 sqq.
Districts
under
military
law,
execu-
tions by the Ochrana in, 40
Dobrovolsky,
Major-General,
murder
of, 217
Documents, securing of, 66
Dolgorukov,
Prince
Paul,
murder
of,
291
Dostoyevsky, F. M., 179
Duchobors, the, 110
Duma,
the, members
of, assisting the
Ochrana,
51; anti-German group in,
113; fateful autumn sitting of, 147,
148; Rasputin’s view on, 152; and the
murder of Rasputin, 153; Left wing
of, 162; Socialist Party in, 262
Durnovo, P. N., 65, 75
Dyedyulin, General V. A., 144
East SIBERIANS, deputations from, 143
‘Economic counter-Revolution,’
the, 285
Economic espionage, 288
Education Department, the, 201
Elizabeth, Empress, 18
Emigration, Jewish, 103 sqq.
Engelhardt, Colonel, 115
Entente Powers, the, and Simon Petly-
ura, 263
Espionage service of the Tsheka, 286
European Powers, responsibility of, for
the continuance
of Bolshevik
rule,
296
Evening Times, Russian journal, 126
Executions—see Capital punishment
Expulsions from the war zone, 118, 119
External Agency of the Ochrana, the,
29, 41, 49, 50, 61
Extraordinary
Commission,
the, cross-
examination by, 254, 275
Page 345
Page 345
INDEX
‘Eye of Moscow,’ the, 289
FiuipitsH, DANIEL, 110
Finland, 145
Food-supply problems, 134, 146
Foreign Agency, the, of the Ochrana, 42,
55, 74, 130,207; of the G.P.U., 204
Fortress
of Peter
and
Paul,
the, the
Trubyetskoy Bastion in, 19, 236, 2373
capitulation of, 224; author’s life in,
258 sqq.; régime in, 258; occupation
by Bolshevik seamen of, 253
Fredericks, Count, 222
Freud, Siegmund, on cruelty, 16, 17
Fyodorov, Dr, 144
G.P.U.
(State Police Department),
the,
23, 24, 284 sqq.
Galician Front, the, 252
General Union of Jewish Workmen, the,
99
German names, campaign against bear-
ers of, 113, 114
German spies in South Russia, 123
Germany,
Lenin’s
negotiations
with,
185; Ochrana news
service in, 2073
attitude
in,
of
parties
during
the
War, 209
Gershuny, —, 64
Globatshov, General, 63, 213
Golitsin, Count N. D., President of the
Council, 115, 214, 216
Golovina, Mme, 156, 157
Golovina, Marya, 156
Goremykin, —, arrest of, 230
Gorky, Maxim, 17, 182
Grand
Dukes,
protest
on punishment
of Rasputin’s murderers by, 177, 178
Grigorovitsh, Admiral I. K., 193
Guards Cavalry, the, 208
Gutshkov, A., 126, 128, 187, 190 sqq.,
206, 208
Guyon, G. P., 125, 126
Gvozdyoy, —, 221
HELFMANN, —, 185
Herzen, Alexander, 27
History of Russia (Pokrovsky), quoted,
23
Home
Secretary
and Chief
of Police,
relations between, 40
Hostages, taking of, by the Tsheka, 282
Houdon, 22
299
IcNATIEV, CoUNT, I19, 201
Imperial
family,
the, attempts
on,
71,
180;
accusations
against,
86;
and
Rasputin, 132, 133. See also Dimitry
Pavlovitsh,
Grand
Duke;
Grand
Dukes,
protest
on
punishment
of
Rasputin’s murderers
by; and under
names of individuals
Individual, legal rights of the, 15, 16
Informers, 21, 22, et passim; Polish se-
verity with, 88
Intellectual workers, lack of, in Russia,
296
Intelligentsia, the, 21, 181, 266, 269
Internal Agency of the Ochrana, the, 29,
41, 54, 61, 255, 256
Investigating
Committee,
the—see
Ex-
traordinary
Commission,
the,
cross-
examinations by, 254
Invisible ink, 69, 93, 286
Irene
Alexandrovna,
Grand
Duchess,
156, 165
Iskra, Lenin’s revolutionary organ, 181
Ivanishin, Colonel, 237
Ivanov, General, 224
Jerzuinsky, F. E., head of the Tsheka,
275, 276, 277
Jewish dwellers
outside the Pale,
r1oo-
IOI
Jewish emigrants, 103 sqq.; status of, on
return, 104 sqq.
Jewish Internationale, the, 105
Jewish professions and trades, 100
Jewish question in Russia, the, 98
Jewish specialists of the Ochrana, 41
Jews, Russian, revolutionary attitude of,
56, 99; as secret agents, 56; share of,
in preparing the Revolution of 1917,
99, 104
Junkovsky, General, 114, 121, 130, I51
Junkovsky, W. O., 126
Katyapirsu, Police Superintendent,
160
Kalyaev, —, 64
Kaminshansky, —, 76
Kannegiesser, —, 276
Karpov, Colonel S$. G., murder of, 80
Kartsev, Rear-Admiral, 232
Katorga, the, in Siberia, 19
Kazan Cathedral, St Petersburg, 35
Kazan Police Station, St Petersburg, 161
Keller, General Count, loyalty of, 227
Page 346
Page 346
300
s
Kerensky,
A. F., and the Provisional
Government, 228, 229, 230, 236, 240,
241, 273
Kharkov,
Governor
of, murdered,
180
Kiev, 92, 128, 263, 264; Chief of Po-
lice of, murder of, 180
Kiev Court of Appeal, the, 263
Kirpitshnitrov, Sergeant-major, 216, 217
Kishinyov, the pogrom at, 98
Kistyakovsky, B., 21
Klembovsky, General, 264
Klimovitsh, Chief of Police, 192
Kokoshkin, —, 260
Kollontay, Alexander, 182
Komissaroy, First Lieutenant, 85
K6nigsberg, 17
Korsak, W. S., 77
Korshunov, a porter, 164
Kotshubinsky, —, 128
Kovalyensky, —, 64
Krapotkin, Prince Peter, 27, 28, 179
Krassilnikov, —, 130, 207
Kremlin, the, 273, 281
Kronstadt,
revolutionary
seamen
of,
252, 253
Kryzhanovsky, S. E., 209
Kshessinskaya, dancer, 252
Kubitsky-Petuch, Lieutenant-Colonel, 206
Kukol-Yasnopolsky, —, 233, 234
Kulikoy, a guard, 260
Kulyabko, First Lieutenant, 87
Kun, Bela, 264, 293
Kuprin, —, 94
Kurlov, General, 57, 71, 77, 81, 83, 84,
86, 117; £18, 122, 144, 1OT,/ 194, 230
Kursk, government of, 178
Kurz, J. B., 118, 119
LasHKYEVITSH, Capratn, murder of, 216,
217
Law, Russian attitude to the, 18
Lazovyert, Dr, 157, 158
Lenin (Vladimir Ulyanov), and the New
Economic
Policy,
283-291;
and
the
G.P.U.
Letters, secret censorship of, 24, 26, 27,
OI sqq., 122, 257
Libau, 119
Liberal Press, the, 73, 105
Liberation of Labour, secret society, 181
Libraries, prohibited, 91
Lithuanian Guards, revolt of, 217
Lityeiny Hospital, murders in, 260
INDEX
Lityeiny Prospekt, the, 219
Lityeiny quarter, St Petersburg, pillage
in, 218
Lobas, Dr, 26
Lopuchin, A. A., Chief of Police, 76, 77
Lotteries, revolutionary, 91
Lunatsharsky, —, 182
MacuinE
Gun REGIMENT,
mutiny
of,
224
Makarov, Minister of the Interior, 76;
Minister of Justice, 177, 236
Maklakov, Minister of the Interior, ar-
rest of, 236, 237
Malingering by the Jews, 99
Malyinovsky affair, the, 245 sqq.
Manassyevitsh-Manuilov, —, 192
Marat, J. P., 30, 275
Mariensky Palace, the, 221
Markov, —, 240, 241
Martov, L., 21, 181
Martynov, Colonel, 220
Marx, Karl, and Marxism in Russia, 181
Matryona Grigoryevna,
163, 164, 165,
168, 169
Maximovsky, A. M., murder of, 84 sqq.
Meisling, guard, kindness of, 259
Mensheviks, the, and the G.P.U., 289
Meshtshersky, Count V. P., 62
Mestshersky, Prince, murder of, 291
Metz, First Lieutenant G. G., 93
Michael
Alexandrovitsh,
Grand
Duke,
226; renouncement of throne by, 228
Mikulin, —, 291
Military authorities, powers
of, during
the War, 116
Military College, St Petersburg, storm-
ing of, 218
Military Commissions of the Duma, 229
Military Intelligence officers, blunders of,
118 sqq.
Military
service,
avoidance
of, by the
Jews, 102 sqq.
Milyukov, —, 194, 200, 201, 208, 266
Mines, Siberian, prisoners sent
to, 20,
270
Ministry of the Interior, an accusation
against, rebutted, 124
Minsk, Secret Congress at (1890), 181
Mohilyev, 26
Moika
Street,
St Petersburg,
scene
of
Rasputin’s murder, 157
Molokany, the, 111
Page 347
Page 347
INDEX
Monarchism of the author, 26; of Ras-
putin, 134; of Badmayev,
144,
145,
146
Monarchists, the, and the G.P.U., 291,
295
Money-lenders, Jewish, 101-102
Mongolia, 143
Moscow, Museum of the Revolution in,
29; disorders
at, in 1906, 223;
seat
of the Soviet Government, 275; other-
wise mentioned, 92, 151, 152, 155
Moscow
Association
of Merchants
and
Manufacturers, the, 125
Moscow Guards, mutiny of, 219
Moscow Ochrana, the, 42, 50, 51, 59,
74, 89, 186, 220, 245; Special Section
of, 47
Moscow Reign of Terror, the, 29
Mount Athos, 133
Munich, 264
Muravyov, Public Prosecutor, 38
Museum of the Revolution, Moscow, 29
Myassoyedov, Colonel, trial of, 126, 127,
130, 176
Myednikov, Eustraty, 50, 51
NacuiTsHEVAN, Tartar Khan of, 227
National Union, the, 241
Necessities, causes of, shortage of, 124
Nefedov, Yussupov’s servant, 166
Netshayey conspiracy, the, 179
Neva, the, 172, 218
New Economic Policy of Lenin, 283, 284
New Ochrana, the—see Tsheka
New Stundists, the, 109
Nezlobin, —, 94
Nicholai
Nicholayevitsh,
Grand
Duke,
L27e1Sssr 207
Nicholai Nicholayevitsh, Grand Duchess,
133
Nicholas II, plots to assassinate, 71, 81,
84,
87;
special
Police
gazette
pre-
pared for, 90, 91; a Jewish threat to,
105; relations of, with Rasputin, 133,
150, 155; Rasputin’s murderers pun-
ished by, 178; relations of, with Bad-
mayev,
143; abdication or deposition
of, 144, 196, 235 sqq.; and the Duma,
186; and Gutshkov, 186, 187, 188
Nicknames and pseudonyms, use by the
Ochrana of, 40, 41, 55-56
Nihilism, 179
301
Nikon, Patriarch, 107
Nizhny-Novgorod,
the Bread
Case
of,
102
Non-Prayer sect, the, 110
North-East Russia, banishment to, 19, 28
Nossovitsh, V. P., 129
Ocurana, the, precursor of, 19; develop-
ment of, 19, 38; functions of, 38 sqq.,
et passim;
punishment
by, 23,
24,
26 (see also Banishment, administra-
tive);
false notions
about, 25 sqq.
280 sqq.; torture by, 26, 29; succes-
sors of, 30 (see also G.P.U., the, and
Tsheka,
the);
medievalism
of, 31;
specialists of, 40; suppression of agen-
cies of, in the Army, 1223 secret ar-
chives of, 161; co-operation of, with
secret agents of the Internal Agency,
256; break-up of, 276; comparison of,
with the Tsheka and with the G.P.U.,
284 sqq., et passim
Ochrana Gazette, the, 90; special edition
of, for the Tsar, gt
Octobrist Party, the, 187
Odessa, 100
Old Believers, the, 108 sqq.
Oranienbaum, 224
Order No. I of the Revolutionary Gov-
ernment,
189, I90
Pate, the, in Russia, 99
Paris, the author’s difficulties and death
in, 22, 265, Russian refugees in, 22,
265;
‘Administrative
Center’
of the
Revolutionary
Socialist Party in, 290
Paul, Tsar, 18
Pavlovsky
Guards
Regiment,
the, 213
Peasants, agitation promoted among, 181;
pogroms by, 294; discontent of, 295
Penza, government of, 79
People’s Courts, the, 285
Perrin, Charles,
affair of, 248, 249
Persia, 178
Peter the Great, 17, 18, 108, 156, 237
Petlyura, Simon, 263
Petrov, —, and the murder of Colonel
Karpov, 83
Petrovsky Bridge, St Petersburg, 171, 172
Photography and invisible ink, 93
Pilgrims,
111,
132
Pilsudski, President, 88
Pityirim, Archbishop, arrest of, 230
Page 348
Page 348
302
Plechanov, 21
Plehve, W. K., murder of, 75
Peedinka (Kuprin), 94
Pogroms, 98, 99, 100, 105
Poincaré, R., 265, 277
Pokrovskoye, 132
Pokrovsky, M., 23
Pokrovsky, N. M., 193, 207
Poland, republic of, 88
Poland, Russian, Jewish population of,
100
Police, Criminal, 53
Police
Department,
the,
relations
of,
with the Army in the War, 116; and
its telegrams, 249
Police gazette for the Tsar, a, 90-91, 95
Police officials, murdered by their agents,
78; murdered by Nihilists, 180
Police, Secret Political, 22, 23, 31, 37>
54, 63, 277
Police Service, Special, 87
Police spies, 40 sqq.
Polish
Socialists,
war
of, against
the
Russian Government, 88
Political counter-revolution, the, 290
Political espionage of the G.P.U., 288
Political offences, tried in camera, 19
Political propaganda of religious
sects,
102 sqq.
Polivanov, General, 128, 188, 200
Popov, General P. K., 161, 164, 172, 185
Poppel, Lieutenant-Colonel,
159
Post Bridge, St Petersburg, 159, 161
Postal
censorship—see
Black
Cabinets
of the Ochrana, the, and Letters, secret
censorship of
Potyomkina, Yekaterina Ivanovna, 164
Pourtalés, Count, 35
Prague, 264
Preobrazhensky Guards, the, revolt of,
217, 218
Press, the, revolutionary organs of, 99,
181
Press campaign against Protopopov, 203
Priestless sect, the, 109
Printing-presses, secret, 48, 49, 51, 73,
g1, 281
Protopopov,
142,
and
Rasputin,
142,
150, 152; as Minister of the Interior,
T9I, 193, 1943 house of, looted, 220;
arrest
of, 2313
baited by Kerensky,
240 sqq.; otherwise mentioned
INDEX
Provisional
Government,
the, 228—see
also Kerensky,
A. F., and the Pro-
visional Government
Provocation,
under
the Tsardom,
53,
63 sqq.
98, 100,
280; under
the
Tsheka, 280
Pskov, 225, 226, 227
Public Prosecutors, 37
Public trial, 20, 30
Purishkyevitsh, V. M., 154,
155, 1575
158,°150, 101; 177
Putiloy works, strike in, 212, 213
Pyeshkoyv, A. N., 182
Rapom, Commander, 83
Raids, of the Polish Socialists,
88; of
the Tsheka, 279
Rasputin,
Grigory
Yefimovitsh,
and
the Rasputin Affair, 132 sgq.; mur-
der of, 154, 155 Sqq-) 209
Ratshkvosky, Chief of the Foreign Sec-
tion of the Ochrana, 74
Records Section of the Ochrana, 40, 41
Red Army, the, 211; counter-espionage
in, 280; dissatisfaction in, 294
Red Police, the, 289
Reign of Terror in Russia, 30, 31. See
also G.P.U., the, and Tsheka, the
Religion,
extermination
of, the
Bol-
shevik aim, 293
Revolution,
the Tsarina
on
possibility
of, 199
Revolutionary
and Liberal
Press,
the,
26
=
Revolutionary societies, 21, 22, 57; or-
ganization
of, 70; heads of, as co-
workers with the Ochrana, 73 sqq.;
propaganda of, in the Army, 122
Rifle Regiment, the, prison guards from,
260
Riga, spy fever at, 113;
a suspicious
case at, 115; otherwise mentioned, 23
Rodzyanko, M. V., 194, 201, 208, 211
Rogov, Colonel, 160
Rudinsk corn region, the, ror
Rumanian Front, indiscipline on, 205
Russia, dissenters and sects in, 107 sqq.3
news from, unreliable, 262; insecurity
of life in, 276; social conditions un-
der Bolshevism
in, 292 sqq.;_possi-
bilities in, when Bolshevism ends, 296
Russian Army, suppression of Ochrana
agencies in, 122; propaganda in, revo-
Page 349
Page 349
INDEX
lutionary and Socialist, 122, 123, 182
sqq.; Suchomlinov’s improvements in,
129; and Order No. I, 189, 190; dis-
integration
of, and increasing
indis-
cipline in, 205 sqq.3; mutinies in, 217
S9Q-, 253, 261
Russian Army Command, the, 116
Russian attitude to the Ochrana, 96-97
Russian
character,
cruelty
in,
17-29.
See also G.P.U., the, and Tsheka, the
Russian Fleet, revolutionary propaganda
in, 193
Russian
governmental
methods,
medi-
evalism of, 30, 31
Russian Radical Party, the, 202
Russian refugees, and the Tsheka and
G.P.U., 265, 284, 300-301
Russian Revolution, the, 56, 63, 88, 132,
184, 255
Russian revolutionaries
and revolution-
ary
societies,
use made
of Rasputin
by, 132,
136, 137,139,
152,
153,
156, 157; propaganda of, 179,
193,
246
Russian Revolutionary Socialists, the, 35,
49, 57, 62, 70, 98; murders by, 217
Russian Socialist Labour Party, the, 181
Russian
Socialist
and
Revolutionary
propaganda in the Army, 121, 122,
176 sqq.
Russian
Socialist organization,
meeting
of all leaders of, 182
Russky,
General,
208, 210,
222,
225,
227
Russo-American Trade Convention, the,
104-105
Russo-Turkish War, the, 143
SaBuer, V. K., 113
Saint-Hypolite, Briand de, 126
St Lazare terminus, the author a porter
at, 265
St Petersburg, on August 2, 1914, 35-363
Jewish inhabitants
of, 100-101;
spy
fever in, 113, 114; society in, effect
on Rasputin of, 133, 1353 Chief of
Police of, murder of, 176; revolution-
ary bodies in, 201; ferment in, 208;
bread demonstrations in, 211; martial
law proclaimed
in, 213; rioting in,
213-215; mutinous troops in, 217 sqq.3
Telephone Exchange during the riots,
220; Tsheka raids in, 279
Bos
St Petersburg Association of the Nobil-
ity, 201
St Petersburg District Court fired, 218
St Petersburg Ochrana, the, 39, 40, 42,
141, 213
St Petersburg Weekly Medical Journal,
The, 26
Sainte-Geneviéve-des-Bois,
Homes at, 22, 265
Samarin, Marshal
of the Nobility, 201
Saratov, 81, 214
Savinkov, B., 64
Sazonov, 35
Schiff, Dr Jakob, 104
Schwarzbad, —, 264
Seamen,
revolutionary,
and Badmayev,
145-146
Seamen sent to St Petersburg, 208
Seamen’s Union, the secret, 52
Sebastopol, 94
Secret
Agency,
the, of the Ochrana,
76, 77 (see also Police, Secret Politi-
cal); of the Tsheka, 284 sqq.; of the
G.P.U., 295 sqq.
Secret collaborators or assistants, 51 sqq.
Secret legal proceedings, 18, 23, 285
Secret Operative Section of the Tsheka,
280
Secret Police—see Police, Secret Political
Secret rendezvous, of the Ochrana, 56;
of the G.P.U., 58, 294
Secret
Service,
the,
of the
Ochrana,
28, 117; of the Tsheka, 272
Semyonovsky Regiment, mutiny of, 223
Sergyei
Alexandrovitsh,
Grand
Duke,
murder of, 75
Shabelsky-Bork, Ensign, 190, 208
Shadowing, 42, 46, 47
Shepkin, counter-revolutionary,
fate of,
290
Shingaryov, —, 260
Shtsheglovitov, —, 76, 84, 230, 236
Shtsherbatshov, Count, 151
Shulgin, —, 226, 227
Shuvayev, War Minister, 193-194
Siberia, 136; the katorga in, 203 prisons
of, flogging
in,
27;
administrative
banishment
to—see
Banishment,
ad-
ministrative
Simbirsk, 19
Simbirsk memorial
affair, the, 247
Sin, gospel of, 112
Skoptsy, the, 110, III
Russian
Page 350
Page 350
304
Skoropadsky, Hetman, 263
Sletov, plot of, to assassinate the Tsar,
1-92
Smirnov, —, 240
Smolny
Institute,
the, 275
Smolyensk, 26
Smugglers, and Jewish emigrants, 103-
104
Social Democracy in Russia, leaders of,
181
Social inequality, past and present, 292,
293
Socialism,
Russian,
and the Socialists,
37, 98; despotism of, 20, 21; rapid
spread
of, 181,
182;
action
of, in
relation to the World War, 183, 184
$qq.
Socialist organization in the Army in
1905,
181 sqq.
Socialist Party in the Duma, 245
Soldiers’ Councils, the, 190
Solovyetsky monastery, the, 108, 280
Solovyov, General P. K., 124, 125
Somov, —, 201
Soviet ‘Missions,’ true nature of, 287
Soviet
officials,
observation
of, by the
G.P.U., 286
Soviet
Republic,
proclamation
of, de-
manded in July and made in Octo-
ber 1917, 252, 262
Soviets, the, the Soviet system and goy-
ernment, 31, 97, 278, 284, 285, 286-
290; bureaucracy of, 293
Sovyeshansky,
Colonel,
of
the
darmerie, 233
Special Police Service, the—see Ochrana,
the
Spies, Police and other, 39 sqq.
Spy system of the G.P.U., 285, 286
Spy-fever of 1914 and after, 113 sqq.
State of the Future, the, failure of, to
materialize, 292 sqq.
State officials, murders of, by Nihilists,
176
State Police, the, 21
State Police Department, present-day—
see G.P.U., the
Steinberg, —, 262
Stepanov, —, attempt of, to blow up the
Imperial family, 180
Stolypin, P. A., assassination of, 85
Stranniky, the, anarchical views of, 111-
112
Gen-
INDEX
Struve, Peter, changed views of, 266
Students, subversive views of, 38
Stundists, the, 109
Stiirgkh, Count, 185
Stiirmer, —, 192, 200, 230, 236
Suchomlinov, General, Minister of War,
trial of, 129, 130 sqq.3 arrest of, by
the revolutionaries, 230
s
Suchomlinov, Mme, 128
Suchotin, Captain, 157
Suspects, how kept under observation,
39 $qq.
Switzerland, Russian Socialist and revo-
lutionary organizations in, 69
TaBORITSKY, ENSIGN, 190
Taft, President, 105, 106
Taurian (Tavritshesky) Palace, the, 229
Terror, the, and the Terrorists, Russian,
36, 49, 57, 71, 281 sqq., 290
“Third Section,” the, 19, 37
Tiflis, 92
Tokio, Russian revolutionaries at, 66
Tolstoi,
Count
Leo, 38, 95; and the
Molokany,
110
Tolstoians, the, 62
Tomsk, 92
Torture in Russia, 15, 17, 22, 27
Towns in which “black cabinets” oper-
ated, 92
Trade,
Communist,
283, 284
Train-dispatch and blocks in traffic, 124
$qq-
Trepov, A. F., 177, 193, 201, 204, 209
Trials, public, 20, 21; by the Tsheka,
279, 280; by the G.P.U., 285, 286
Trotsky, Leon, 250, 254
Trusyevitsh, M. L., 64, 65, 87
Trusyevitsh, Senator N. I., 233, 246
Tsar, the—see Nicholas II
Tsar as Antichrist,
107
Tsardom, the, 27, 30; responsibility for
collapse of, 106
Tsarina, the—see Alexandra Feodorovna,
Tsarina
Tsarist
Police
Service, former
officials
of, 272 sqq.
Tsarskoye Syelo, 224
Tsaryevitsh, the—see Alexis Nicolaievitsh,
Tsaryevitsh
Tsheka,
the bribe offered
by, to the
author, 265, 287; organization and
and
contraband,
Page 351
Page 351
INDEX
methods of, 269 sqq., 275 sqq., 2823
cradle and founder of, 275 sqq.; head-
quarters of, 276; abolition of, 284
Tshernov,
leader of the Revolutionary
Socialists, 184
Uxraine, the, 263, 264
Ulyanov, Vladimir—see Lenin
Uritsky, bead of the Tsheka, 276
Usury, Jewish, 101-102,
104
Varja, a daughter of Rasputin, 165
Vassilyev, A. T. (the author), 22 sqq.3
last days and death of, 22, 265, 266;
memoirs
of, 22, 23, 25 sqq.;
views
of,
on
the
Tsardom
and
on
the
Ochrana,
28, 29;
appointed Under-
Secretary of the Interior, 191; arrest
and imprisonments of, 230 sqq., 260,
261
sqq.3;
accusations
against,
255
sqq.;
release of, and life after that
event, 262 sqq.; bribe offered by the
Tsheka to, 265
Vassilyev, Mme A. T., 221, 242, 262,
263
Vassilyevy, —
(brother of the author),
—, 221, 264
Vilna, 92
Visitors to Russia, hoodwinking of, 288,
289
Vlassiyev, Policeman, and
the murder
of Rasputin, 159, 160, 161
Voiloshnikov, a spy, 36
Volga country, the, ror
Volhynian
Guards
Regiment,
mutiny of, 217
Volkonsky, —, 202
Vuitsh, E. I, 64
Vyborg district,
St Petersburg,
rioting
in, 217, 218
Vyrubova, Mme, 141
216;
War TraDdE ComMmMiTTEE of Gutshkov,
arrest of, 257
oe5
Warsaw, 92; anarchists executed at, 40;
Jewish element in, 100
Warsaw Ochrana, the, 181
White Army, the, 1133 officers of, exe-
cuted, 290
Will of the People, the, revolutionary
group, 51
Will of the Workers, The, journal, 99
William II, ex-Kaiser,
113, 115, 147
Winter Palace, the, 35, 229
Witte, Count, 75, 76
Witte, house-porter, 114
Workmen’s Group in the War Trade
Committee, the, 206, 207, 257
World Revolution, the, 185
World War, the, Police action during,
22; spy-fever during, 113 sqq.; out-
break of, 182-183
Kenta ALEXANDROVNA, Grand Duchess,
169
YANUSHKYEVITSH, GENERAL, 126
Yefimov, Policeman, 160
Yekaterinburg, 26
Yekaterinoslay, 65
Yodlovsky, —, 255
Yoffe, the Misses, 188, 189
Yussupov Palace, the, 163, 166
Yussupoy, Prince Felix, 155 sqq.,
158,
159,
160, 163 sqq.
165 sqq.,
167,
168, 173
Yussupoy, Princess, 175
ZASSULITSH, VYERA, 180
Zeyn, Z. A., Governor-General of Fin-
land, 233
Zhutshenko, Mlle, 57
Zimmermann, General,
113
Zimmerwald Conference,
the, 185
Zinovyev, G. E., 246, 254
Zionist Congress, 1904, 105
Znamyensky,
Lieutenant, 231
Zubatoy, Chief of the Moscow Ochrana,
60, 61
‘
Page 352
Page 352
Page 353
Page 353
Page 354
Page 354
Page 355
Page 355
Page 356
Page 356
MILL8 COLLEGE LIBRARY
THIS BOOK DUE ON THE LAST DATE
STAMPED BELOW
|
Books not returned on time are subject to
a fine of 10c per volume per day.
ee
ae ee
|
APR 22°68
fov1
‘ve
Noy 22
Page 357
Page 357
551.74
MILLS COLLEGE LIBRARY
BNF
The Ochrana, the Russian secret po
351.74 V3340
Vasil'ev, Aleksiei T
3 3086 00074 8731
V5413
V3340
Page 358
Page 358
ochrana
ochrana
Page 1
Page 2
Page 3
Page 4
Page 5
Page 6
Page 7
Page 8
Page 9
Page 10
Page 11
Page 12
Page 13
Page 14
Page 15
Page 16
Page 17
Page 18
Page 19
Page 20
Page 21
Page 22
Page 23
Page 24
Page 25
Page 26
Page 27
Page 28
Page 29
Page 30
Page 31
Page 32
Page 33
Page 34
Page 35
Page 36
Page 37
Page 38
Page 39
Page 40
Page 41
Page 42
Page 43
Page 44
Page 45
Page 46
Page 47
Page 48
Page 49
Page 50
Page 51
Page 52
Page 53
Page 54
Page 55
Page 56
Page 57
Page 58
Page 59
Page 60
Page 61
Page 62
Page 63
Page 64
Page 65
Page 66
Page 67
Page 68
Page 69
Page 70
Page 71
Page 72
Page 73
Page 74
Page 75
Page 76
Page 77
Page 78
Page 79
Page 80
Page 81
Page 82
Page 83
Page 84
Page 85
Page 86
Page 87
Page 88
Page 89
Page 90
Page 91
Page 92
Page 93
Page 94
Page 95
Page 96
Page 97
Page 98
Page 99
Page 100
Page 101
Page 102
Page 103
Page 104
Page 105
Page 106
Page 107
Page 108
Page 109
Page 110
Page 111
Page 112
Page 113
Page 114
Page 115
Page 116
Page 117
Page 118
Page 119
Page 120
Page 121
Page 122
Page 123
Page 124
Page 125
Page 126
Page 127
Page 128
Page 129
Page 130
Page 131
Page 132
Page 133
Page 134
Page 135
Page 136
Page 137
Page 138
Page 139
Page 140
Page 141
Page 142
Page 143
Page 144
Page 145
Page 146
Page 147
Page 148
Page 149
Page 150
Page 151
Page 152
Page 153
Page 154
Page 155
Page 156
Page 157
Page 158
Page 159
Page 160
Page 161
Page 162
Page 163
Page 164
Page 165
Page 166
Page 167
Page 168
Page 169
Page 170
Page 171
Page 172
Page 173
Page 174
Page 175
Page 176
Page 177
Page 178
Page 179
Page 180
Page 181
Page 182
Page 183
Page 184
Page 185
Page 186
Page 187
Page 188
Page 189
Page 190
Page 191
Page 192
Page 193
Page 194
Page 195
Page 196
Page 197
Page 198
Page 199
Page 200
Page 201
Page 202
Page 203
Page 204
Page 205
Page 206
Page 207
Page 208
Page 209
Page 210
Page 211
Page 212
Page 213
Page 214
Page 215
Page 216
Page 217
Page 218
Page 219
Page 220
Page 221
Page 222
Page 223
Page 224
Page 225
Page 226
Page 227
Page 228
Page 229
Page 230
Page 231
Page 232
Page 233
Page 234
Page 235
Page 236
Page 237
Page 238
Page 239
Page 240
Page 241
Page 242
Page 243
Page 244
Page 245
Page 246
Page 247
Page 248
Page 249
Page 250
Page 251
Page 252
Page 253
Page 254
Page 255
Page 256
Page 257
Page 258
Page 259
Page 260
Page 261
Page 262
Page 263
Page 264
Page 265
Page 266
Page 267
Page 268
Page 269
Page 270
Page 271
Page 272
Page 273
Page 274
Page 275
Page 276
Page 277
Page 278
Page 279
Page 280
Page 281
Page 282
Page 283
Page 284
Page 285
Page 286
Page 287
Page 288
Page 289
Page 290
Page 291
Page 292
Page 293
Page 294
Page 295
Page 296
Page 297
Page 298
Page 299
Page 300
Page 301
Page 302
Page 303
Page 304
Page 305
Page 306
Page 307
Page 308
Page 309
Page 310
Page 311
Page 312
Page 313
Page 314
Page 315
Page 316
Page 317
Page 318
Page 319
Page 320
Page 321
Page 322
Page 323
Page 324
Page 325
Page 326
Page 327
Page 328
Page 329
Page 330
Page 331
Page 332
Page 333
Page 334
Page 335
Page 336
Page 337
Page 338
Page 339
Page 340
Page 341
Page 342
Page 343
Page 344
Page 345
Page 346
Page 347
Page 348
Page 349
Page 350
Page 351
Page 352
Page 353
Page 354
Page 355
Page 356
Page 357
Page 358