--- Page 4 ---
Table	of	Contents
PENGUIN	BOOKS
Title	Page
Copyright	Page
Dedication
Acknowledgements
Introduction
	
I	-	Father	and	Sons
ONE	-	“Our	Blessed	Father”:	Origins
TWO	-	The	Elector’s	Treasure
	
II	-	Brothers
THREE	-	“The	Commanding	General”	(1813-1815)
FOUR	-	A“	Court	Always	Leads	to	Something”	(1816-1825)
FIVE	-	“Hue	and	Cry”	(1826-1829)
SIX	-	Amschel’s	Garden
SEVEN	-	Barons
EIGHT	-	Sudden	Revolutions	(1830-1833)
NINE	-	The	Chains	of	Peace	(1830-1833)
TEN	-	The	World’s	Bankers
ELEVEN	-	“Il	est	mort”	(1836)
	
III	-	Uncles	and	Nephews

--- Page 5 ---
TWELVE	-	Love	and	Debt
THIRTEEN	-	Quicksilver	and	Hickory	(1834-1839)
FOURTEEN	-	Between	Retrenchment	and	Rearmament	(1840)
FIFTEEN	-	“Satan	Harnessed”:	Playing	at	Railways	(1830-1846)
SIXTEEN	-	1848
APPENDIX	1	-	Prices	and	Purchasing	Power
APPENDIX	2	-	Exchange	Rates	and	Selected	Financial	Statistics
NOTES
INDEX

--- Page 6 ---
Praise	for	
The	House	of	Rothschild:	Money’s	Prophets,
1798-1848
“This	is	a	major	achievement	of	historical	scholarship	and	historical
imagination.	Ferguson’s	work	reaffirms	one’s	faith	in	the	possibility	of	great
historical	writing.”—Fritz	Stern
	
“Ferguson’s	first	volume	on	the	Rothschilds	is	a	tour	de	force	by	a	brilliant	and
industrious	young	scholar.”
—Los	Angeles	Times	Book	Review
	
“A	great	biography.”—
Time
	magazine
	
“Absorbing	.	.	.	Their	enthralling	story	has	been	told	before,	but	never	in	such
authoritative	detail.”
—The	New	York	Times	Book	Review
	
“
	Well	written,	superbly	illustrated	.	.	.	account	of	the	Rothschilds’	phenomenal
success.”	
—The	Boston	Globe	Book	Review
	
“
	Niall	Ferguson’s	rich	and	compelling	new	book	.	.	.	is	a	feast.”
—
The	Wall	Street	Journal
	
“Spellbinding,	[Ferguson]	has	done	a	brilliant	job	of	depicting	this	far-flung
family	and	also	offers	an	amazing	insider’s	look.	His	exhaustive	study	surpasses
anything	about	the	Rothschilds	to	date.”
—
Publishers	Weekly
	(starred	review)
	
“Ferguson’s	fluid,	masterful	synthesis	of	a	vast	amount	of	material	.	.	.	brings
vitality	to	a	series	of	compelling	issues.”
—
Business	Week

--- Page 7 ---
	
“[Ferguson]	skillfully	weaves	together	the	financial	and	family	themes	of	the
book.	Any	reader	fascinated	by	modern	financing	and	banking	will	be	well
satisfied.	But	[
The	House	of	Rothschild
	]	.	.	.	will	give	even	more	pleasure	to
those	captivated	by	a	unique	dynasty	.	.	.	that	flourished	beyond	all	dreams.”
—
The	American	Statesman

--- Page 8 ---
PENGUIN	BOOKS
THE	HOUSE	OF	ROTHSCHILD
Born	in	Glasgow	in	1964,	Niall	Ferguson	is	Fellow	and	Tutor	of	Modern	History
at	Jesus	College,	Oxford,	as	well	as	a	political	commentator	and	author.	His
previous	publications	include	
Paper	and	Iron:	Hamburg	Business	and	German
Politics	in	the	Era	of	Inflation	1897-1927
,	the	bestselling	book,	
Virtual	History:
Alternatives	and	Counterfactuals
,	and	
The	Pity	of	War.

--- Page 11 ---
PENGUIN	BOOKS	
Published	by	the	Penguin	Group	
Penguin	Putnam	Inc.,	375	Hudson	Street,	
New	York,	New	York	10014,	U.S.A.	
Penguin	Books	Ltd,	27	Wrights	Lane,	
London	W8	5TZ,	England	
Penguin	Books	Australia	Ltd,	Ringwood,	
Victoria,	Australia	
Penguin	Books	Canada	Ltd,	10	Alcorn	Avenue,	
Toronto,	Ontario,	Canada	M4V	3B2	
Penguin	Books	(N.Z.)	Ltd,	182-190	Wairau	Road,	
Auckland	10,	New	Zealand
	
Penguin	Books	Ltd,	Registered	Offices:	
Harmondsworth,	Middlesex,	England
	
First	published	in	the	United	States	of	America	by	Viking	Penguin,	
a	member	of	Penguin	Putnam	Inc.	1998	
Published	in	Penguin	Books	1999
	
	
Copyright	©	Niall	Ferguson,	1998
All	rights	reserved
	
This	is	the	first	of	two	volumes	of	
The	House	of	Rothschild
.	
In	Great	Britain	
The	House	of	Rothschild
	was	published	as	one	volume	
by	Weidenfeld	&	Nicolson	under	the	title	
The	World’s	Banker.
	
CIP	data	available.
eISBN	:	978-1-101-15730-5
	
	
http://us.penguingroup.com

--- Page 12 ---
For	Susan,	Felix	and	Freya

--- Page 13 ---
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Documents	from	the	Royal	Archives	at	Windsor	Castle	are	quoted	with	the
gracious	permission	of	Her	Majesty	the	Queen.	It	was	Sir	Evelyn	de	Rothschild,
chairman	of	N.	M.	Rothschild	&	Sons,	who	originally	suggested	that	the	writing
of	a	history	of	the	firm	would	be	a	good	way	to	mark	the	bicentenary	of	his
great-great-grandfather	Nathan	Mayer	Rothschild’s	arrival	in	England;	I	owe	a
special	debt	to	him	for	opening	the	Rothschild	Archive	to	me.	Amschel
Rothschild	also	took	a	keen	interest	in	the	project	before	his	tragic	death	in	1996.
Lord	Rothschild,	Edmund	de	Rothschild,	Leopold	de	Rothschild	and	Baron
David	de	Rothschild	were	all	kind	enough	to	agree	to	be	interviewed.	They	and
others	also	took	the	trouble	to	read	and	comment	on	substantial	parts	of	the	text.
I	am	grateful	to	Miriam	Rothschild	for	her	corrections	to	an	early	version	of	the
epilogue,	and	to	Baron	Guy	de	Rothschild	for	his	looking	over	those	passages
relating	to	the	recent	history	of	the	French	bank	and	family.	Emma	Rothschild
read	and	commented	on	the	first	draft	in	its	entirety,	a	considerable	distraction
from	her	own	research	and	writing	for	which	I	thank	her.	Lionel	de	Rothschild
saved	me	from	innumerable	slips	by	reading	and	meticulously	annotating	the
first	draft,	a	labour	for	which	this	acknowledgement	seems	a	very	meagre	wage.
I	should	also	like	to	thank	the	Earl	and	Countess	of	Rosebery	for	giving	me
access	to	the	private	papers	of	the	5th	Earl,	and	for	their	kind	hospitality	at
Dalmeny.
A	number	of	directors	and	employees	at	N.	M.	Rothschild	&	Sons	have	also
assisted	me.	In	particular,	I	should	like	to	thank	Tony	Chapman,	Russell	Edey,
Grant	Manheim,	Bernard	Myers	and	David	Sullivan,	as	well	as	Lorna	Lindsay,
Hazel	Matthews	and	Oleg	Sheiko.
A	project	such	as	this	depends	heavily	on	the	expertise	and	toil	of	archivists
and	librarians.	I	owe	a	special	debt	of	gratitude	to	those	at	the	Rothschild
Archive:	Victor	Gray	and	Melanie	Aspey,	and	their	assistants	Tamsin	Black	and
Mandy	Bell,	who	have	uncomplainingly	put	up	with	my	erratic	work	methods
and	unpredictable	demands.	I	should	also	like	to	thank	their	predecessors,
Simone	Mace	and	Ann	Andlaw.	Sheila	de	Bellaigue,	Registrar	of	the	Royal
Archives	at	Windsor	Castle,	was	a	model	of	efficiency;	as	were	Henry	Gillett
and	Sarah	Millard	at	the	Bank	of	England	and	Robin	Harcourt-Williams	at

--- Page 14 ---
Hatfield	House.	I	should	like	to	record	my	
gratitude	to	Dr	M.	M.
Muchamedjanov	and	his	assistants	at	the	Centre	for	the	Preservation	of
Historical	Documentary	Collections	in	Moscow.	In	addition,	I	and	my	research
assistants	have	received	invaluable	help	from	the	archivists	and	librarians	at	the
Anglo-Jewish	Archives,	University	of	Southampton;	the	Archives	Nationales,
Paris;	the	Bayerisches	Hauptstaatsarchiv,	Munich;	the	Birmingham	University
Library;	the	Bodleian	Library;	the	British	Library;	the	Cambridge	University
Library;	the	Geheime	Staatsarchiv	Preussischer	Kulturbesitz,	Berlin-Dahlem;	the
Hessische	Staatsarchiv,	Marburg;	the	House	of	Lords	Record	Office;	the	Institut
für	Stadtgeschichte,	Frankfurt;	the	Jewish	Museum,	Frankfurt;	the	Leo	Baeck
Institute,	New	York;	the	National	Library	of	Scotland;	Rhodes	House,	Oxford;
The	Times	Archive;	and	the	Thüringische	Hauptstaatsarchiv,	Weimar.
See	“Note:	On	Being	an	‘Authorised’	Author”	at	the	end	of	the
acknowledgements.
Lord	Weidenfeld	was	the	match-maker	who	suggested	that	I	might	like	to
write	this	book	and	for	that	(and	many	other	kindnesses)	I	shall	always	be	in	his
debt.	I	am	indebted	too	to	Anthony	Cheetham	at	Orion	for	investing	in	me	and
offering	only	encouragement	as	deadlines	passed	and	the	manuscript	overshot
the	agreed	length.	Ion	Trewin	has	been	and	is	a	superb	editor;	the	same	goes	for
Peter	James,	my	copy-editor.	I	should	also	like	to	thank	Rachel	Leyshon,	Francis
Gotto	and	Carl	Stott	for	their	contributions.
My	agents,	successively	Gill	Coleridge	and	Georgina	Capel,	provided	all	the
shrewd	advice	and	tenacious	negotiation	an	author	could	wish	for.
This	book	could	not	have	been	written	in	five	years—indeed,	it	could	not	have
been	written—without	a	great	deal	of	research	assistance.	I	must	make	special
mention	of	Mordechai	Zucker,	whose	unique	ability	to	decipher	the	archaic
Hebrew	script	used	by	the	first	and	second	generations	of	Rothschilds	was	a	
sine
qua	non
.	Thanks	to	the	translations	which	he	had	been	working	on	for	years
before	I	came	on	the	scene,	and	through	his	tape-recorded	readings	of	the
original	
Judendeutsch,
	
Mordechai	has	been	the	eyes	through	which	I	have	been
able	to	read	the	most	important	of	all	the	documents	on	which	this	book	is	based.
Nor	would	I	have	got	far	with	the	correspondence	of	the	French	Rothschilds
without	the	invaluable	Abi	gail	Green,	who	also	hunted	down	long-lost	literary
allusions	to	the	Rothschilds.	Edward	Lipman	did	great	things	on	financial
questions;	while	Rainer	Liedtke	provided	vital	expertise	on	Jewish	history.	Harry
Seekings	and	Glen	O’Hara	slaved	over	nineteenth-century	financial	statistics.

--- Page 15 ---
Andrew	Vereker	chased	Natty	Rothschild’s	dispersed	political	correspondence.	I
should	also	like	to	thank	Katherine	Astill,	Elizabeth	Emerson,	Bernhard	Fulda,
Tobias	Jones	and	Suzanne	Nicholas.
The	finished	text	owes	much	to	the	critical	comments	of	other	historians	on
earlier	drafts.	David	Landes	acted	on	the	family’s	behalf	as	a	kind	of	editor-cum-
Dok	torvater
.	It	has	been	a	rare	privilege	to	be	so	attentively	read	by	one	of	the
acknowledged	masters	of	modern	economic	history.	I	must	also	thank	another
master	in	the	field,	Barry	Supple,	for	finding	the	time	to	read	the	first	draft;	as
well	as	my	old	friend	Jonathan	Steinberg,	who	generously	read	the	early	chapters
at	a	very	difficult	time.	Fritz	Backhaus	and	Helga	Krohn	of	the	Jewish	Museum
in	Frankfurt	gave	me	invaluable	material	which	they	had	gathered	for	their
outstanding	exhibition;	I	warmly	thank	them	and	their	assistant	Rainer	Schlott.
Others	who	have	read	and	commented	on	individual	chapters	include	Robert
Evans,	Gerry	Feldman,	John	Grigg,	Lord	Jenkins	of	Hillhead,	Rainer	Liedtke,
Reinhard	Liehr,	Wolfgang	Mommsen,	Susannah	Morris,	Aubrey	Newman,	Sir
John	Plumb,	Hartmut	Pogge	
von	Strandmann	and	Andrew	Roberts.	I	am	grateful
to	them	all	for	these	good	works,	as	well	as	to	all	those	who	have	commented	on
conference	and	seminar	papers	I	have	given	on	aspects	of	Rothschild	history.	I
would	also	like	to	thank	Amos	Elon	for	scholarly	comradeship	in	Moscow.
The	Principal	and	Fellows	of	Jesus	College,	Oxford,	have	tolerated	my
absence	or	absent-mindedness	throughout	the	five	years	this	book	has	taken	to
write,	as	have	the	other	members	of	the	Oxford	Modern	History	Faculty.	I	am
especially	grateful	to	my	colleague	Felicity	Heal,	who	has	often	had	to	shoulder
burdens	we	are	supposed	to	share,	as	well	as	to	Dafna	Clifford,	Don	Fowler	and
Patrick	McGuinness.	I	have	also	been	indirectly	helped	by	the	college’s	staff;
others	will,	I	hope,	forgive	me	if	I	single	out	Vivien	Bowyer	and	Robert	Haynes,
who	have	regularly	acted	beyond	the	call	of	duty.	I	should	also	like	to	thank
Doris	Clifton	of	the	Modern	Languages	Faculty.	Nor	could	I	omit	the
indispensable	Amanda	Hall.
Finally,	I	thank	Susan,	Felix	and	Freya,	for	whom	this	book	was	written,	and
to	whom	it	is	dedicated.
	
	
Note:	On	Being	an	“Authorised”	Author
It	may	be	as	well	to	state	explicitly	that	those	members	of	the	Rothschild	family
who	read	parts	of	the	early	manuscript	were	
not
	acting	as	censors.	From	the

--- Page 16 ---
outset,	it	was	formally	agreed	that	I	would	be	entitled	to	quote	freely	from	any
material	in	the	Rothschild	Archive	in	London	predating	March	1915	(the	date	of
the	1st	Lord	Rothschild’s	death);	and,	of	course,	from	any	other	archives	and
private	collections	of	papers	as	far	as	their	curators	gave	me	permission	to	do	so.
It	was	also	agreed	that	N.	M.	Rothschild	&	Sons	would	have	the	right	to
comment	on	the	manuscript.	This	arrangement	has	worked	far	better	in	practice
than	I	could	ever	have	hoped.	For	the	avoidance	of	doubt:	I	have	been	able
throughout	to	abide	by	the	Rankean	principle	of	trying	to	write	history	as	far	as
possible	“as	it	actually	was,”	and	the	comments	I	have	received	from	members
of	the	family	have	only	helped	me	in	this	attempt.	Their	commitment	to
historical	accuracy	has	deeply	impressed	me.	If	the	end-product	falls	short	of
Ranke’s	ideal,	I	hope	it	is	only	because	relevant	documents	have	not	been	read
for	lack	of	time,	have	not	survived	or	never	existed.	Errors	are,	of	course,	my
fault	alone.
Niall	Ferguson

--- Page 20 ---
Pickup	from	old	film

--- Page 21 ---
INTRODUCTION
Reality	and	Myth
I
B
anking,”	the	3rd	Lord	Rothschild	once	remarked,	“consists	essentially	of
facilitating	the	movement	of	money	from	Point	A,	where	it	is,	to	Point	B,	where
it	is	needed.”	There	is	a	certain	elementary	truth	in	this	aperçu,	even	if	it	did
reflect	Victor	Rothschild’s	personal	lack	of	enthusiasm	for	finance.	But	if	the
history	of	the	firm	founded	by	his	great-great-grandfather	two	centuries	ago
consisted	of	nothing	more	than	getting	money	from	A	to	B,	it	would	make	dull
reading.	It	should	not.
All	banks	have	histories,	though	not	all	have	their	histories	researched	and
written;	only	the	Rothschilds,	however,	have	a	mythology.	Ever	since	the	second
decade	of	the	nineteenth	century,	there	has	been	speculation	about	the	origins
and	extent	of	the	family’s	wealth;	about	the	social	implications	of	their	meteoric
upward	mobility;	about	their	political	influence,	not	only	in	the	five	countries
where	there	were	Rothschild	houses	but	throughout	the	world;	about	their
Judaism.	The	resulting	mythology	has	proved	almost	as	long-lived	as	the	firm	of
N.	M.	Rothschild	&	Sons	itself.	The	name	“Rothschild”	(which	translates	from
the	original	German	as	“Redshield”)	may	be	less	well	known	today	than	it	was	a
hundred	years	ago,	when,	as	Chekhov	remarked,	a	moribund	Russian	coffin-
maker	could	use	it	ironically	as	a	nickname	for	a	poor	Jewish	musician.
1
	But
most	readers	will	recognise	it,	if	only	from	its	still	fairly	regular	appearances	in
the	press.	The	bank	may	not	be	the	financial	giant	it	was	in	the	century	after
1815	and	the	family	may	be	a	great	deal	more	dispersed	and	diffuse,	but	the
name	continues	to	attract	attention—some	of	it	prurient.	Even	those	who	know
nothing	about	finance	and	care	less	are	likely	to	have	come	across	it	at	least	once
in	their	lives.	Thanks	to	an	apparently	hereditary	aptitude	for	zoology	and
horticulture,	there	are	no	fewer	than	153	species	or	sub-species	of	insect	which
bear	the	name	“Rothschild,”	as	well	as	fifty-eight	birds,	eighteen	mammals

--- Page 22 ---
(including	the	Baringo	Giraffe,	
Giraffa	camelopardalis	rothschildi
)	and	fourteen
plants	(including	a	rare	slipper	orchid,	
Paphiopedilum	rothschildianum
	and	a
flame	lily,	
Gloriosa	rothschildiana
)—to	say	nothing	of	three	fish,	three	spiders
and	two	reptiles.	The	family’s	almost	equally	recurrent	enthusiasm	for	the
pleasures	of	the	table	has	also	bestowed	the	name	on	a	soufflé	(made	with	glacé
fruit,	brandy	and	vanilla)	and	a	savoury	(prawns,	cognac	and	Gruyère	on	toast).
There	are	towns	and	numerous	streets	named	after	members	of	the	family	in
Israel,	Rothschild-owned	vineyards	at	Mouton	and	Lafite	whose	wines	are	drunk
the	world	over,	numerous	Rothschild-built	houses	from	the	Vale	of	Aylesbury	to
the	Riviera—and	there	is	even	a	Rothschild	Island	in	the	Antarctic.	Pieces	of
music	have	been	dedicated	to	Rothschilds	by	Chopin	and	Rossini,	as	have	books
by	Balzac	and	Heine.	The	family	is	as	famous	in	the	art	world	for	its	many
collections	(some	of	which	can	be	seen	in	public	galleries)	as	it	is	in	horse-racing
circles	for	its	past	Derby	winners.	In	the	course	of	writing	this	book,	I	have	met
few	people	who	had	not	heard	at	least	one	Rothschild	anecdote—most
commonly	the	myth	of	the	immense	profits	Nathan	Mayer	Rothschild	made	by
speculating	on	the	outcome	of	the	battle	of	Waterloo;	almost	as	often	the	story	of
the	purchase	of	the	Suez	Canal	shares	which	Disraeli	did	his	best	to	make
famous.	And,	for	those	who	know	no	history,	books	of	Jewish	humour	still
contain	Rothschild	jokes.	There	have	even	been	two	Rothschild	films,	a	play
2
and	a	bizarre,	though	moderately	successful,	Broadway	musical.
It	should	be	said	right	away	that	this	book	has	very	little	to	say	about	giraffes,
orchids,	soufflés,	vintage	wines	or	islands	in	the	Antarctic.	It	is	primarily	a	book
about	banking;	and	here	some	words	of	explanation	and	reassurance	are	in	order
for	those	readers	who	are	more	interested	in	what	rich	families	do	with	their
wealth	than	in	how	they	get	it.
In	fact,	the	firm	of	N.	M.	Rothschild	&	Sons	was	not	technically	a	bank	at	all
—at	least	not	according	to	that	great	Victorian	financial	journalist	Walter
Bagehot’s	definition	in	his	
Lombard	Street
	(1873).	“A	foreigner,”	he	wrote,
“would	be	apt	to	think	that	they	[the	Rothschilds]	were	bankers	if	anyone	was.
But	this	only	illustrates	the	essential	difference	between	our	English	notions	of
banking	and	the	continental”:
Messrs	Rothschild	are	immense	capitalists,	having,	doubtless,	much	borrowed
money	in	their	hands.	But	they	do	not	take	£100	payable	on	demand,	and	pay	it
back	in	cheques	of	£5	each,	and	that	is	our	English	banking.	The	borrowed
money	they	have	is	in	large	sums,	borrowed	for	terms	more	or	less	long.	English

--- Page 23 ---
bankers	deal	with	an	aggregate	of	small	sums,	all	of	which	are	repayable	on
short	notice,	or	on	demand.	And	the	way	the	two	employ	their	money	is	different
also.	A	foreigner	thinks	“an	Exchange	business”—that	is,	the	buying	and	selling
bills	on	foreign	countries—a	main	part	of	banking	.	.	.	But	the	mass	of	English
country	bankers	.	.	.	would	not	know	how	carry	through	a	great	“Exchange
operation”	.	.	.	They	would	as	soon	think	of	turning	silk	merchants.	The
Exchange	trade	is	carried	on	by	a	small	and	special	body	of	foreign	bill-brokers,
of	whom	Messrs	Rothschild	are	the	greatest	.	.	.	[The]	family	are	not	English
bankers,	either	by	the	terms	on	which	they	borrow	money,	or	the	mode	in	which
they	employ	it.
Having	begun	his	business	career	in	England	as	a	textile	exporter,	Nathan	Mayer
Rothschild	was	technically	a	merchant	who	came	to	specialise	in	various
financial	services.	He	himself	said	in	1817:	“[M]y	business	.	.	.	consists	entirely
in	Government	transactions	&	Bank	operations”—but	by	the	latter	he	probably
meant	operations	with	the	Bank	of	England.	He	did	not	mean	the	kind	of	deposit
banking	which	Bagehot	called	“our	English	banking”	and	which	remains	the
principal	activity	of	the	big	high-street	banks	today.
Nor	can	N.	M.	Rothschild	&	Sons	really	be	regarded	as	an	autonomous	firm:
until	some	time	between	1905	and	1909	it	was	one	of	a	group	of	Rothschild
“houses”	run	by	a	family	partnership—though	the	London	house	is	the	only	one
of	these	which	has	had	an	uninterrupted	existence	until	the	present	day
(Rothschild	&	Cie	Banque	is	only	an	indirect	descendant	of	the	original	Paris
house,	which	was	nationalised	in	1981).	At	its	zenith	from	the	1820s	until	the
1860s,	this	group	had	five	distinct	establishments.	In	addition	to	Nathan’s	in
London,	there	was	the	original	firm	of	M.	A.	Rothschild	&	Söhne	in	Frankfurt
(after	1817,	M.	A.	von	Rothschild	&	Söhne),	which	his	eldest	brother	Amschel
took	over	when	their	father	Mayer	Amschel	died;	de	Rothschild	Frères	in	Paris,
founded	by	his	youngest	brother	James;	and	two	subsidiaries	of	the	Frankfurt
house,	C.	M.	von	Rothschild	in	Naples,	run	by	the	fourth	of	the	brothers,	Carl,
and	S.	M.	von	Rothschild	in	Vienna,	managed	by	the	second-born	Salomon.	Up
until	the	1860s,	the	five	houses	worked	together	so	closely	that	it	is	impossible
to	discuss	the	history	of	one	without	discussing	the	history	of	all	five:	they	were,
to	all	intents	and	purposes,	the	component	parts	of	a	multinational	bank.	Even	as
late	as	the	first	decade	of	the	twentieth	century,	the	system	of	partnerships
continued	to	function	in	such	a	way	that	“English”	Rothschilds	had	a	financial
stake	in	the	Paris	house	and	“French”	Rothschilds	a	stake	in	the	London	house.
Unlike	modern	multinationals,	however,	this	was	always	a	family	firm,	with

--- Page 24 ---
executive	decision-making	strictly	monopolised	by	the	partners	who	(until	1960)
were	exclusively	drawn	from	the	ranks	of	male	Rothschilds.
Perhaps	the	most	important	point	to	grasp	about	this	multinational	partnership
is	that,	for	most	of	the	century	between	1815	and	1914,	it	was	easily	the	biggest
bank	in	the	world.	Strictly	in	terms	of	their	combined	capital,	the	Rothschilds
were	in	a	league	of	their	own	until,	at	the	earliest,	the	1880s.	The	twentieth
century	has	no	equivalent:	not	even	the	biggest	of	today’s	international	banking
corporations	enjoys	the	relative	supremacy	enjoyed	by	the	Rothschilds	in	their
heyday—just	as	no	individual	today	owns	as	large	a	share	of	the	world’s	wealth
as	Nathan	and	James	as	individuals	owned	in	the	period	from	the	mid-1820s
until	the	1860s	(see	appendix	1).	The	economic	history	of	capitalism	is	therefore
incomplete	until	some	attempt	has	been	made	to	explain	how	the	Rothschilds
became	so	phenomenally	rich.	Was	there	a	“secret”	to	their	unparalleled
success?	There	are	numerous	apocryphal	business	maxims	attributed	to	the
Rothschilds—for	example,	to	hold	a	third	of	one’s	wealth	in	securities;	a	third	in
real	estate;	and	a	third	in	jewels	and	artworks,	to	treat	the	stock	exchange	like	a
cold	shower	(“quick	in,	quick	out”);	or	to	leave	the	last	10	per	cent	to	someone
else—but	none	of	them	has	any	serious	explanatory	value.
What	exactly	was	the	business	the	Rothschilds	did?	And	what	use	did	they
make	of	the	immense	economic	leverage	they	could	exercise?	To	answer	these
questions	properly	it	is	necessary	to	understand	something	of	nineteenth-century
public	finance;	for	it	was	by	lending	to	governments—or	by	speculating	in
existing	government	bonds—that	the	Rothschilds	made	a	very	large	part	of	their
colossal	fortune.
II
A
ll	nineteenth-century	states	occasionally	ran	budget	deficits	and	some	almost
always	did—that	is,	their	tax	revenues	were	usually	insufficient	to	meet	their
expenditures.	In	this,	of	course,	they	were	little	different	from	eighteenth-century
states.	And,	as	before	1800,	it	was	war	and	the	preparation	for	war	which
generally	precipitated	the	biggest	increases	in	expenditure;	poor	harvests	(or
troughs	in	the	trade	cycle)	also	caused	periodic	revenue	shortfalls	by	reducing
receipts	from	taxes.	
These	deficits,	though	often	relatively	small	in	relation	to
national	income,	were	not	easily	financed.	National	capital	markets	were	not

--- Page 25 ---
very	developed	and	an	internationally	integrated	capital	market	was	only
gradually	taking	shape	with	its	first	real	centre	in	Amsterdam.	For	most	states,
borrowing	was	expensive—that	is,	the	interest	they	had	to	pay	on	loans	was
relatively	high—because	they	were	perceived	by	investors	as	unreliable
creditors.	Budget	deficits	were	thus	often	financed	either	by	the	sale	of	royal
assets	(land	or	offices),	or	by	inflation	if	the	government	was	in	a	position	to
debase	the	currency.	A	third	possibility,	of	course,	was	to	raise	new	taxes,	but,	as
had	been	the	case	in	the	seventeenth	century	and	as	was	to	be	the	case
throughout	the	nineteenth	century	too,	major	changes	in	tax	regimes	generally
necessitated	some	kind	of	political	consent	via	representative	institutions.	The
French	Revolution	was	precipitated	by	just	such	a	bid	for	new	revenue	from	the
Estates	General,	after	all	other	attempts	at	fiscal	reform	had	failed	to	keep	up
with	the	costs	of	the	crown’s	military	activities.	One	exception	to	the	rule	was
the	British	state,	which	since	the	later	seventeenth	century	had	developed	a
relatively	sophisticated	system	of	public	borrowing	(the	national	debt)	and
monetary	management	(the	Bank	of	England).	Another	exception	was	the	small
German	state	of	Hesse-Kassel,	which	was	effectively	run	by	its	ruler	at	a	profit
through	the	hiring	out	of	his	subjects	as	mercenaries	to	other	states.	Involvement
in	the	management	of	his	huge	investment	portfolio	was	one	of	the	first	steps
Mayer	Amschel	Rothschild	took	in	order	to	become	a	banker	rather	than	a	mere
coin	dealer	(his	original	business).
The	period	1793-1815	was	characterised	by	recurrent	warfare,	the	fiscal	side-
effects	of	which	were	profound.	Firstly,	unprecedented	expenditures	precipitated
inflation	in	all	the	combatants’	economies,	the	most	extreme	form	of	which	was
the	collapse	of	the	assignat	currency	in	France.	The	European	currencies—
including	the	pound	sterling	after	1797—were	thrown	into	turmoil.	Secondly,	the
disruptions	of	war	(for	example,	the	French	occupation	of	Amsterdam	and
Napoleon’s	Continental	System)	created	opportunities	for	making	large	profits
on	highly	risky	transactions	such	as	smuggling	textiles	and	bullion	and
managing	the	investments	of	exiled	rulers.	Thirdly,	the	transfer	of	large	subsidies
from	Britain	to	her	continental	allies	necessitated	innovations	in	the	cross-border
payments	system	which	had	never	before	had	to	cope	with	such	sums.	It	was	in
this	highly	volatile	context	that	the	Rothschilds	made	the	decisive	leap	from
running	two	modest	firms—a	small	merchant	bank	in	Frankfurt	and	a	cloth
exporters	in	Manchester—to	running	a	multinational	financial	partnership.
Nor	did	the	final	defeat	of	Napoleon	end	the	need	for	international	financial
services;	on	the	contrary,	the	business	of	settling	the	debts	and	indemnities	left

--- Page 26 ---
over	from	the	war	dragged	on	for	most	of	the	1820s.	Moreover,	new	fiscal	needs
quickly	arose	from	the	political	crises	which	beset	the	Spanish	and	Ottoman
Empires	in	this	period.	At	the	same	time,	fiscal	retrenchment	and	monetary
stabilisation	in	Britain	created	a	need	for	new	forms	of	investment	for	those	who
had	grown	accustomed	to	putting	their	money	in	high-yielding	British	bonds
during	the	war	years.	It	was	this	need	which	Nathan	and	his	brothers
successfully	met.	The	system	they	developed	enabled	British	investors	(and
other	rich	“capitalists”	in	Western	Europe)	to	invest	in	the	debts	of	those	states
by	purchasing	internationally	tradeable,	fixed-interest	bearer	(that	is,
transferable)	bonds.	The	significance	of	this	system	for	nineteenth-century
history	cannot	be	over-emphasised.	For	this	growing	international	bond	
market
brought	together	Europe’s	true	“capitalists”:	that	elite	of	people	wealthy	enough
to	be	able	to	tie	up	money	in	such	assets,	and	shrewd	enough	to	appreciate	the
advantages	of	such	assets	as	compared	with	traditional	forms	of	holding	wealth
(land,	venal	office	and	so	on).	Bonds	were	liquid.	They	could	be	bought	and	sold
five	and	a	half	days	out	of	seven	(excluding	holidays)	on	the	major	bourses	of
Europe	and	traded	informally	at	other	times	and	in	other	places.	And	they	were
capable	of	accruing	large	capital	gains.	Their	only	disadvantage	was,	of	course,
that	they	were	also	capable	of	suffering	large	capital	losses.
What	determined	the	ups	and	downs	of	the	nineteenth-century	bond	market?
The	answer	to	this	question	is	central	to	any	understanding	of	the	history	of	the
Rothschild	bank.	Obviously,	economic	factors	played	an	important	part—in
particular,	the	conditions	for	short-term	borrowing	and	the	appeal	of	alternative
private	securities.	But	the	most	important	factor	was	political	confidence:	the
confidence	of	investors	(and	especially	of	big	market-making	investors	like	the
Rothschilds)	in	the	ability	of	the	bond-issuing	states	to	continue	to	meet	their
obligations—that	is,	to	pay	the	interest	on	their	bonds.	There	were	only	really
two	things	which	might	cause	them	not	to	do	so:	war,	which	would	increase	their
expenditures	and	decrease	their	tax	revenues;	and	internal	instability,	ranging
from	a	change	of	ministry	to	full-blown	revolution,	which	would	not	only	dent
their	revenues	but	might	also	bring	to	power	a	new	and	fiscally	imprudent
government.	It	was	for	indications	of	either	of	these	possible	crises,	with	their
intimations	of	default,	that	the	markets—and	the	Rothschilds	more	than	anybody
—watched.
This	explains	the	importance	they	always	attached	to	having	up-to-date
political	and	economic	news.	Three	things	would	give	an	investor	an	edge	over
his	rival:	closeness	to	the	centre	of	political	life,	the	source	of	news;	the	speed

--- Page 27 ---
with	which	he	could	receive	news	of	events	in	states	far	and	near;	and	the	ability
to	manipulate	the	transmission	of	that	news	to	other	investors.	This	explains	why
the	Rothschilds	spent	so	much	time,	energy	and	money	maintaining	the	best
possible	relations	with	the	leading	political	figures	of	the	day.	It	also	explains
why	they	carefully	developed	a	network	of	salaried	agents	in	other	key	financial
markets,	whose	job	it	was	not	only	to	trade	on	their	behalf	but	also	to	keep	them
supplied	with	the	latest	financial	and	political	news.	And	it	explains	why	they
constantly	strove	to	accelerate	the	speed	with	which	information	could	be
relayed	from	their	agents	to	them.	From	an	early	stage,	they	relied	on	their	own
system	of	couriers	and	relished	their	ability	to	obtain	political	news	ahead	of	the
European	diplomatic	services.	They	also	occasionally	used	carrier-pigeons	to
transmit	the	latest	stock	prices	and	exchange	rates	from	one	market	to	another.
Before	the	development	of	the	telegraph	(and	later	the	telephone),	which	tended
to	“democratise”	news	by	making	it	generally	available	more	rapidly,	the
Rothschilds’	communications	network	gave	them	an	important	advantage	over
their	competitors.	Even	after	they	lost	this	edge,	they	continued	to	exercise	an
influence	over	the	financial	press	through	which	news	reached	a	wider	public.
Information	about	the	chances	of	international	or	domestic	instability	fed
directly	into	the	bond	market,	leading	to	the	daily	fluctuations	in	prices	and
yields	which	investors	followed	so	closely.	However,	the	relationship	between
politics	and	the	bond	market	went	the	other	way	too.	For	the	movements	of
prices	of	existing	government	stock—the	products	of	past	fiscal	policy—had	an
important	bearing	on	present	and	future	policy.	To	put	it	simply,	if	a	government
wished	to	borrow	more	
by	issuing	more	bonds,	a	fall	in	the	price	(rise	in	the
yield)	of	its	existing	bonds	was	a	serious	discouragement.	For	this	reason,	bond
prices	had	a	significance	which	historians	have	too	seldom	spelt	out.	They	were,
it	might	be	said,	a	kind	of	daily	opinion	poll,	an	expression	of	confidence	in	a
given	regime.	Of	course,	they	were	an	opinion	poll	based	on	a	highly
unrepresentative	sample	by	modern,	democratic	standards.	Only	the	wealthy—
the	“capitalists”—got	to	vote.	But	then	political	life	in	the	nineteenth	century
was	itself	undemocratic.	Indeed,	the	kind	of	people	who	held	government	bonds
were,	very	roughly	speaking,	the	people	who	were	represented	politically,	even
if	there	was	sometimes	tension	between	those	property	owners	whose	assets
were	held	primarily	in	the	form	of	land	or	buildings	and	the	bondholders	whose
portfolios	were	composed	mainly	of	paper	securities.	These	capitalists	were	thus
to	a	large	extent	Europe’s	political	class	and	their	opinions	were	the	opinions	that
mattered	in	a	stratified,	undemocratic	society.	If	investors	bid	up	the	price	of	a

--- Page 28 ---
government’s	stock,	that	government	could	feel	secure.	If	they	dumped	its	stock,
that	government	was	quite	possibly	living	on	borrowed	time	as	well	as	money.
The	singular	beauty	of	the	bond	market	was	that	virtually	every	state
(including,	as	the	century	advanced,	all	the	new	nation	states	and	colonies)	had,
sooner	or	later,	to	come	to	it;	and	most	states	had	sizeable	amounts	of	tradable
debt	in	circulation.	The	varying	fortunes	of	government	bonds	provide	a	vital
insight	into	the	political	history	of	the	period.	They	are	also	the	key	to
understanding	the	extent	and	limits	of	the	power	of	a	bank	like	Rothschilds,
which	for	much	of	the	nineteenth	century	was	the	prime	market-maker	for	such
bonds.	Indeed,	it	can	be	argued	that,	by	modifying	the	existing	system	for
government	borrowing	to	make	bonds	more	easily	tradable,	the	Rothschilds
actually	created	the	international	bond	market	in	its	modern	form.	As	early	as
1830	a	German	writer	observed	how,	thanks	to	innovations	in	the	form	of	bonds
introduced	by	the	Rothschilds	since	1818,
each	possessor	of	state	paper	[can]	.	.	.	collect	the	interest	at	his	convenience	at
several	different	places	without	any	effort.	The	House	of	Rothschild	in	Frankfurt
pays	the	interest	on	the	Austrian	metalliques,	the	Neapolitan	rentes	and	the
interest	of	the	Anglo-Neapolitan	obligations	in	either	London,	Naples	or	Paris,
wherever	it	suits.
At	the	core	of	this	book,	then,	is	the	international	bond	market	which	the
Rothschilds	did	so	much	to	develop,	though	due	attention	is	also	paid	to	the
many	other	forms	of	financial	business	the	Rothschilds	did:	bullion	broking	and
refining,	accepting	and	discounting	commercial	bills,	direct	trading	in
commodities,	foreign	exchange	dealing	and	arbitrage,	even	insurance.	In
addition	to	the	inevitable	web	of	credits	and	debits	with	other	firms	which	arose
from	these	activities,	the	Rothschilds	also	offered	to	a	select	group	of	customers
—usually	royal	and	aristocratic	individuals	whom	they	wished	to	cultivate—a
range	of	“personal	banking	services”	ranging	from	large	personal	loans	(as	in	the
case	of	the	Austrian	Chancellor	Prince	Metternich)	to	a	first	class	private	postal
service	(as	in	the	case	of	Queen	Victoria).	Contrary	to	Bagehot’s	impression,
they	sometimes	took	deposits	from	this	exclusive	clientele.	And	the	Rothschilds
were	also	major	industrial	investors—an	aspect	of	their	business	which	has	often
been	underestimated.	When	the	development	of	railways	raised	the	possibility	of
transforming	Europe’s	transport	system	in	the	1830s	and	1840s,	the	Rothschilds
were	among	the	leading	financial	backers	of	lines,	beginning	in	France,	Austria
and	Germany.	Indeed,	by	the	1860s	James	de	Rothschild	had	built	up	something

--- Page 29 ---
like	a	pan-European	railway	network	extending	northwards	from	France	to
Belgium,	southwards	to	Spain	and	eastwards	to	Germany,	Switzerland,	Austria
and	Italy.	From	an	early	stage,	the	Rothschilds	also	had	major	mining	interests,
beginning	in	the	1830s	with	their	acquisition	of	the	Spanish	mercury	mines	of
Almadén	and	expanding	dramatically	in	the	1880s	and	1890s	when	they	invested
in	mines	producing	gold,	copper,	diamonds,	rubies	and	oil.	Like	their	original
financial	business,	this	was	an	authentically	global	operation	extending	from
South	Africa	to	Burma,	from	Montana	to	Baku.
The	primary	concern	of	this	book	is	therefore	to	explain	the	origins	and
development	of	one	of	the	biggest	and	most	unusual	businesses	in	the	history	of
modern	capitalism.	Nevertheless,	it	is	not	intended	as	a	narrowly	economic
history.	For	one	thing,	the	history	of	the	firm	is	inseparable	from	the	history	of
the	family:	the	phrase	“the	House	of	Rothschild,”	which	has	often	been	used	by
previous	historians	(and	film-makers)	was	used	by	contemporaries,	including	the
Rothschilds	themselves,	to	convey	this	unity.	While	the	regularly	revised	and
renewed	partnership	agreements	regulated	the	management	of	the	Rothschilds’
collective	business	activities	and	the	distribution	of	the	profits	which	accrued,	of
equal	importance	were	the	nuptial	agreements	which,	at	the	height	of	the
family’s	success,	systematically	married	Rothschild	to	Rothschild,	thus	keeping
the	family’s	capital	united—and	safe	from	the	claims	of	“outsiders.”	When
Rothschild	women	did	marry	outside	the	family,	their	husbands	were	prohibited
from	having	a	direct	involvement	in	the	business,	as	were	the	female	Rothschilds
themselves.	The	partners’	wills	were	also	designed	to	ensure	the	perpetuation
and	growth	of	the	business	by	imposing	the	wishes	of	one	generation	on	the
next.	Inevitably,	there	were	conflicts	between	the	collective	ambitions	of	the
family,	so	compellingly	spelt	out	by	Mayer	Amschel	before	he	died,	and	the
wishes	of	the	individuals	who	happened	to	be	born	Rothschilds,	few	of	whom
shared	the	founder’s	relentless	appetite	for	work	and	profits.	Fathers	were
disappointed	by	sons.	Brothers	resented	brothers.	Love	was	unrequited	or
prohibited.	Marriage	was	imposed	on	unwilling	cousins,	and	husbands	and	wives
quarrelled.	In	all	this,	the	Rothschilds	had	much	in	common	with	the	large
families	which	populate	so	much	nineteenth-	and	early-twentieth-century	fiction:
Thackeray’s	New-comes,	Trollope’s	Pallisers,	Galsworthy’s	Forsytes,	Tolstoy’s
Rostovs	and	Mann’s	Buddenbrooks	(though	not,	happily,	Dostoevsky’s
Karamazovs).	The	nineteenth	century,	of	course,	was	an	era	of	large	families—
the	birth	rate	was	high	and,	for	the	rich,	the	death	rate	fell—and	perhaps	in	this
sense	alone	the	Rothschilds	were	not	(as	Heine	once	called	them)	“the

--- Page 30 ---
exceptional	family.”
Because	they	were	so	rich,	the	Rothschilds	could	plainly	claim	a	material
equivalence	with	the	European	aristocracy;	their	success	in	overcoming	the
various	legal	and	cultural	obstacles	to	full	equivalence	of	
status
	is	one	of	the
most	remarkable	case	studies	in	nineteenth	century	social	history.	As	men	whose
father	had	been	prohibited	from	owning	property	outside	the	cramped	and
squalid	Frankfurt	Judengasse,	the	five	brothers	had	an	understandable	interest	in
the	acquisition	of	land	and	spacious	residences;	though	it	was	the	third
generation
3
	who	were	responsible	for	building	most	of	the	spectacular	palaces
and	town	houses	which	are	the	family’s	most	impressive	monuments.	At	the
same	time,	the	Rothschilds	energetically	pursued	and	acquired	decorations,	titles
and	other	honours,	securing	the	ultimate	
prize—an	English	peerage—in	1885.
The	third	generation	also	threw	themselves	into	hunting	and	horse-racing,	those
quintessentially	aristocratic	pastimes.	A	similar	process	of	social	assimilation	is
detectable	in	their	cultural	engagement.	James	and	his	nephews	had	a	passion	for
collecting	art,	ornaments	and	furniture	which	they	passed	on	to	many	of	their
descendants.	They	also	extended	their	patronage	to	include	writers	(Benjamin
Disraeli,	Honoré	de	Balzac	and	Heinrich	Heine),	musicians	(notably	Fryderyk
Chopin	and	Gioachino	Rossini)	as	well	as	architects	and	artists.	In	more	ways
than	one,	they	were	the	nineteenth	century’s	Medicis.
Yet	it	would	be	wrong	to	see	them	as	the	archetype	of	the	“feudalised”
bourgeois	family,	“aping”	the	manners	of	the	landed	elite.	For	the	Rothschilds
brought	to	the	aristocratic	milieu	patterns	of	behaviour	which	were	distinctively
commercial	in	origin.	Initially,	they	bought	land	as	an	investment	which	they
expected	to	pay	an	economic	return.	They	regarded	the	large	houses	they	built	at
least	partly	in	functional	terms,	as	private	hotels	for	dispensing	corporate
hospitality.	Nathan’s	sons	and	grandsons	even	saw	the	purchase	of	horses	as	a
form	of	enjoyably	speculative	investment	and	placed	bets	on	horse-races	in
much	the	same	way	that	they	engaged	in	stock	market	“specs.”	To	put	it
cynically,	mixing	with	members	of	the	aristocracy	was	essential	if	it	was	they
who	governed,	and	almost	as	much	political	information	came	from	informal
socialising	as	from	formal	meetings	with	ministers.
At	the	same	time,	there	is	a	sense	in	which	the	Rothschilds	more	closely
resembled	royalty	than	either	the	aristocracy	or	the	middle	classes.	This	was	not
just	because	they	consciously	imitated	the	many	crowned	heads	they	came	to
know.	Like	the	extended	family	which	provided	so	many	of	Europe’s	monarchs,
the	Rothschilds	were	extreme	in	their	preference	for	endogamy.	They	relished

--- Page 31 ---
the	sense	that	they	were	
sans	pareil
—at	least	within	the	European	Jewish	elite.
In	this	sense,	phrases	like	“Kings	of	the	Jews”	which	contemporaries	applied	to
them	contained	an	important	element	of	truth.	That	was	exactly	the	way	the
Rothschilds	saw	and	conducted	themselves—as	phrases	like	“our	royal	family”
in	their	letters	show—and	the	way	they	were	treated	by	many	other	less	wealthy
Jews.
This	relationship	to	Judaism	and	the	Jewish	communities	of	Europe	and	the
Middle	East	is	unquestionably	one	of	the	most	fascinating	themes	of	the	family’s
history.	For	the	Rothschilds,	as	for	so	many	Jewish	families	who	migrated
westwards	in	the	nineteenth	century,	social	assimilation	or	integration	in	the
countries	where	they	settled	posed	a	challenge	to	their	faith,	although	the
relaxation	of	discriminatory	legislation	allowed	them	to	acquire	not	only	money
but	many	of	the	desirable	things	it	could	buy.	Yet	no	matter	how	sumptuous	their
houses	and	how	well	educated	their	children,	they	constantly	encountered	anti-
Jewish	sentiment,	ranging	from	the	aggression	of	the	Frankfurt	mob	to	the	subtle
disdain	of	aristocrats	and	Gentile	bankers	for	“the	Jew.”	Many	other	wealthy
Jewish	families	opted	to	convert	to	Christianity	partly	in	response	to	such
pressures.	But	the	Rothschilds	did	not.	They	remained	firmly	committed	to
Judaism,	playing	an	important	role	in	the	affairs	of	the	various	Jewish
communities	of	which	they	were	members.	Moreover,	they	sought,	from	their
earliest	days,	to	use	their	financial	leverage	over	individual	states	to	improve	the
legal	and	political	position	of	the	Jews	living	there.	They	did	this	not	only	in
their	home	town	of	Frankfurt,	but	consistently	in	almost	every	state	where	they
did	business	thereafter	as	well	as	in	some	countries	(for	example,	Rumania	and
Syria)	where	they	had	no	economic	interests.	At	least	some	members	of	the
family	saw	such	altruistic	activities	as	in	some	sense	linked	to	their	own	material
success:	by	remaining	true	to	the	faith	of	their	ancestors	and	remembering	their
“poorer	co-religionists”	the	Rothschilds	not	only	demonstrated	their	gratitude	for
their	good	fortune	but	ensured	that	it	continued.
Finally,	and	perhaps	most	important,	this	is	a	political	as	much	as	it	is	a
financial	history:	there	are	few	major	political	figures	in	nineteenth-century
history	who	do	not	feature	in	the	index	of	this	book.	From	the	very	earliest	days,
the	Rothschilds	appreciated	the	importance	of	proximity	to	politicians,	the	men
who	determined	not	only	the	extent	of	budget	deficits	but	also	the	domestic	and
foreign	policies	which	so	influenced	the	financial	markets;	and	politicians	soon
came	to	realise	the	importance	of	proximity	to	the	Rothschilds,	who	at	times
seemed	indispensable	to	the	solvency	of	the	states	the	politicians	governed	and

--- Page 32 ---
who	could	always	be	relied	upon	to	provide	up-to-the-minute	political	news.
Mayer	Amschel’s	cultivation	of	the	Elector	of	Hesse-Kassel’s	chief	financial
adviser	Karl	Buderus	and	later	of	Karl	Theodor	Anton	von	Dalberg,	Prince-
Primate	of	Napoleon’s	Rhenish	Confederation,	were	the	prototypes	of	countless
relationships	his	sons	cultivated	with	politicians	throughout	Europe.	Beginning
in	1813,	Nathan	became	intimate	with	the	British	Commissary-General,	John
Charles	Herries,	the	man	responsible	for	financing	Wellington’s	invasion	of
France.	Another	early	Rothschild	“friend”	in	England	was	Charles	Stewart,
brother	of	the	Foreign	Secretary	Lord	Castlereagh	and	the	British	delegate	at	the
Congresses	of	Vienna,	Troppau,	Laibach	and	Verona.	Nathan	was	also	in	direct
contact	with	the	Prime	Minister	Lord	Liverpool	and	his	Chancellor	of	the
Exchequer	Nicholas	Vansittart	in	the	early	1820s,	and	gave	the	Duke	of
Wellington	important	financial	advice	during	the	Reform	crisis	of	1830-32.
Rothschild	influence	extended	to	royalty	as	well.	Nathan	first	came	into
contact	with	British	royalty	thanks	to	his	father’s	purchase	of	outstanding	debts
owed	by	George,	Prince	Regent	(later	King	George	IV)	and	his	brothers.	These
tenuous	links	were	enhanced	by	careful	cultivation	of	Leopold	of	Saxe-Coburg,
who	married	George	IV’s	daughter	Charlotte	and	later	became	King	Leopold	I	of
the	Belgians.	Nor	was	his	nephew	Albert	above	turning	to	the	Rothschilds	for
financial	assistance	after	he	became	Queen	Victoria’s	Prince	Consort.	In	turn,
Victoria	and	Albert’s	eldest	son	was	on	friendly	terms	with	many	members	of
the	family	before	and	after	he	succeeded	his	mother	as	Edward	VII.	The	list	of
Victorian	politicians	who	were	close	to	the	Rothschilds	is	a	long	one:	Lionel’s
campaign	for	admission	to	the	House	of	Commons	in	the	1840s	and	1850s
enjoyed	support	from	Whigs	like	Lord	John	Russell	and	Peelites	like	Gladstone,
but	also	Protectionist	Tories	like	Disraeli	and	Lord	George	Bentinck.	Later,	as
his	sons	grew	disillusioned	with	Gladstone,	they	were	attracted	not	only	to
Disraeli	but	also	to	Lord	Randolph	Churchill,	Joseph	Chamberlain	and	Arthur
Balfour.	In	the	1880s	and	1890s	their	advice	on	imperial	matters	was	sought	by
both	the	Marquess	of	Salisbury	and	the	Earl	of	Rosebery,	Gladstone’s	successor
as	Liberal	Prime	Minister.	Indeed,	Rosebery	was	married	to	a	Rothschild:
Mayer’s	daughter	Hannah.
The	French	Rothschilds	also	took	a	direct	role	in	politics.	They	were	close	to
the	comte	de	Villèle	in	the	early	1820s,	shifted	their	allegiance	skilfully	to	Louis
Philippe	in	1830,	managed	to	survive	the	1848	revolution	by	cultivating	leading
republicans,	and	subtly	undermined	the	rule	of	Napoleon	III,	whose	foreign
adven	turism	they	disliked.	They	also	had	a	firm	friend	in	the	Third	Republic	in

--- Page 33 ---
the	person	
of	Léon	Say,	four	times	French	Finance	Minister.	In	Germany	and
Austria,	the	close	relationship	between	Salomon	and	Metternich	was	of	immense
importance	in	the	years	1818-48,	but	it	was	far	from	unique.	Other	“friends”	of
the	Restoration	era	included	Count	Apponyi,	the	Austrian	ambassador	in	Paris,
and	members	of	the	Esterházy	family;	as	well	as	(in	Prussia)	Prince	Hardenberg,
the	State	Chancellor,	Wilhelm	von	Humboldt,	the	educational	reformer	and
diplomat,	and	Christian	Rother,	the	finance	official	who	rose	to	become
president	of	the	Prussian	royal	bank.	Links	with	Bismarck	proved	harder	to
forge,	though	by	the	1870s	Mayer	Carl	was	able	to	act	as	a	channel	of	diplomatic
communication	between	“old	B.”	and	the	governments	in	London	and	Paris.	The
Emperor	William	II	awarded	Alfred	de	Rothschild	a	medal	for	his	diplomatic
services	and	regarded	his	brother	Natty	as	“an	old	and	much	respected
acquaintance.”
A	central	aim	of	this	book	is	to	illuminate	these	relationships.	As	Fritz	Stern
said	in	his	pioneering	study	of	the	relationship	between	Bismarck	and	Gerson
Bleichröder,	historians	used	to	be	shy	of	acknowledging	the	role	of	financial
factors	in	the	policies	of	the	great	statesmen	of	the	nineteenth	century.	Strangely,
the	many	historians	of	a	Marxist	persuasion	who	were	once	so	influential	did
hardly	anything	to	rectify	this,	preferring	to	assert	rather	than	to	demonstrate	that
the	interests	of	the	ruling	class	were	essentially	the	same	as	(or	subordinate	to)
those	of	“finance	capital.”	In	recent	years,	historians	of	British	imperialism	have
done	much	to	refine	our	understanding	of	the	relationship	between	the	City	and
the	Empire.	But	the	model	of	“gentlemanly	capitalism”	advanced	by	Cain	and
Hopkins	does	not	quite	fit	the	Rothschild	case;	and,	given	the	sheer	scale	of	the
Rothschilds’	role	in	nineteenth-century	finance,	this	is	an	exception	which	may
do	more	than	prove	the	rule.	The	Rothschilds	after	the	second	generation	may
have	acted	like	gentlemen	when	they	were	in	the	West	End	or	the	country.	But	in
the	“counting	house”	they	were	unalloyed	capitalists,	applying	rules	and
precepts	of	business	which	had	their	origins	in	the	Frankfurt	Judengasse.
III
The	above	is	a	sketch	of	what	might	be	called	the	reality	of	Rothschild	history
which	this	book	describes	in	detail.	In	itself,	it	is	an	absorbing	story.	Yet	it
becomes	doubly	so	when	juxtaposed	with	the	extraordinary	mythology	which

--- Page 34 ---
has	grown	up	around	the	family	since	they	first	began	to	be	noticed	by
contemporaries	as	“exceptional.”
The	origins	of	the	Rothschild	myth—as	far	as	surviving	published	records	go
—can	be	traced	back	to	1813,	the	year	after	the	death	of	the	founder	of	the	firm.
Despite	its	eulogistic	title	and	tone,	it	would	be	wrong	to	describe	S.	J.	Cohen’s
memoir,	
The	Exemplary	Life	of	the	Immortal	Banker	Mr	Meyer	Amschel
Rothschild
,	as	an	authorised	biography.	Nevertheless,	it	set	the	tone	for	what
might	broadly	be	described	as	the	sympathetic	(if	not	the	official)	explanation
for	the	Rothschilds’	financial	success,	essentially	portraying	it	as	a	morality	tale
of	virtue	rewarded.	Not	only	was	Mayer	Amschel	a	pious	and	observant	Jew,
Cohen	argued,	but	his	life	“proved	beyond	doubt	that	a	Jew,	as	a	Jew,	can	be
religious	and	at	the	same	time	an	excellent	man	and	a	good	citizen.”	Like	the
authors	of	so	many	later	works	of	homage,	Cohen	said	very	little	about	Mayer
Amschel’s	business	career.	But	the	strong	implication	was	that	his	success	as	a
banker	was	a	sign	of	divine	approbation.
Some	thirteen	years	later	a	more	precise	but	comparably	moralistic
explanation	was	published.	The	
General	German	Encyclopaedia	for	the
Educated	Classes
	produced	by	the	Leipzig	publisher	F.	A.	Brockhaus	was	a
typical	example	of	the	secular	reference	work	of	the	Biedermeier	era.	It	was
popular,	selling	around	80,000	copies;	but,	though	similar	in	form	to	the	French
encyclopaedias	which	had	been	associated	with	the	pre-Revolutionary
Enlightenment,	its	content	was	monitored	by	the	conservative	authorities.
Indeed,	the	man	who	wrote	the	entry	for	“Rothschild”	first	published	in	the	1827
edition	of	the	encyclopaedia	was	Friedrich	von	Gentz,	secretary	to	Metternich;
and	the	positive	tone	of	the	piece	reflected	the	Rothschilds’	growing	influence
over	both	Austrian	public	finance	and	Gentz’s	private	affairs.	This	was	an	article
which	the	family	not	only	approved	of	but	paid	for:	prior	to	publication	Gentz
read	it	aloud	to	Leopold	von	Wertheimstein,	one	of	the	Vienna	house’s	senior
clerks,	and	ten	days	later	received	his	“actual	reward”	from	Salomon	von
Rothschild	himself.
Though	he	said	little	about	their	origins	in	the	Frankfurt	ghetto	in	the	four
columns	which	Brockhaus	published—indeed,	he	did	not	mention	their	religion
at	all—Gentz	implied	that	they	had	only	recently	become	“the	greatest	of	all
business	firms.”	This	success	had	its	roots,	he	suggested,	in	Mayer	Amschel’s
“hard	work	and	parsimony	.	.	.	knowledge	and	proven	integrity.”	Likewise	his
five	sons	were	celebrated	for	“the	reasonableness	of	their	demands	.	.	.	the
punctiliousness	with	which	they	carry	out	their	duties	.	.	.	the	simplicity	and

--- Page 35 ---
clarity	of	their	schemes,	and	the	intelligent	way	in	which	they	are	put	into
operation.”	Apart	from	their	skill	as	businessmen,	Gentz	also	laid	considerable
emphasis	on	“the	personal	moral	character	of	each	of	the	five	brothers”	as	“a
determining	factor	in	the	success	of	their	undertakings”:
It	is	not	difficult	to	create	a	party	for	oneself	when	one	is	powerful	enough	to
draw	many	people	into	one’s	interest.	But	to	unite	the	support	of	all	parties	and	.
.	.	to	win	the	esteem	of	great	and	small,	requires	the	possession	not	merely	of
material	resources,	but	also	of	spiritual	qualities	which	are	not	always	found	in
association	with	wealth	and	power.	Doing	good	works	on	all	sides,	never
refusing	help	to	one	in	need,	always	willing	to	fulfil	the	requests	of	anyone	who
asks	for	help,	without	regard	to	his	class,	and	performing	the	most	important
services	in	the	most	gracious	manner:	by	these	means	each	of	the	five	branches
of	the	family	has	achieved	a	real	popularity,	and	not	in	a	calculated	way	but	out
of	a	natural	philanthropy	and	kindness.
Such	reflections	had	a	faintly	standardised	quality	to	them,	of	course:	paid
hacks	had	been	writing	in	such	glowing	terms	about	their	wealthy	patrons	since
ancient	times.	Privately,	Gentz	was	more	ambivalent.	His	first	comment	on	the
family	(in	response	to	a	suggestion	by	his	friend	Adam	Müller	in	1818	that	he
write	just	such	an	essay)	had	been	decidedly	backhanded.	They	were,	he	agreed,
“a	distinct	
species	plantarum
	with	its	own	characteristic	features:”	to	be	precise,
they	were	“common,	ignorant	Jews,	who	exercise	their	craft	quite	naturalistically
[that	is,	instinctively],	with	no	idea	of	the	more	elevated	relationships	between
things.”	On	the	other	hand,	they	were	also	“gifted	with	a	remarkable	instinct
which	causes	them	always	to	choose	the	right	and	of	two	rights	the	better.”	Their
enormous	wealth	was	“entirely	the	result	of	this	instinct,	which	the	public	are
wont	to	call	luck.”	In	a	section	of	his	
“Biographical	Notes	on	the	House	of
Rothschild”	which	was	only	published	posthumously,	Gentz	elaborated	on	this
last	point—the	relationship	between	ability	(“virtue”)	and	circumstances
(“luck”)—in	a	Machiavellian	vein:
There	is	a	truth,	which,	although	not	quite	new,	is	generally	not	properly
understood.	The	word	
luck
	as	commonly	used	in	the	history	of	famous
individuals	or	eminent	families,	becomes	bereft	of	all	meaning	when	we
endeavour	to	dissociate	it	entirely	from	the	personal	or	eminent	factors	in	each
case.	There	are	circumstances	and	events	in	life	in	which	good	or	ill	luck	may	be
a	determining	although	not	an	exclusive	factor	in	human	destiny.	Lasting
success,	however,	and	constant	failure	are	always	.	.	.	attributable	to	the	personal

--- Page 36 ---
virtue	or	the	personal	failings	and	shortcomings	of	those	who	are	blessed	by	the
one	or	damned	by	the	other.	Nevertheless,	the	most	outstanding	personal
qualities	may	sometimes	require	exceptional	circumstances	and	world-shattering
events	to	come	to	fruition.	Thus	have	the	founders	of	dynasties	established	their
thrones,	and	thus	has	the	House	of	Rothschild	become	great.
The	readers	of	Brockhaus’s	
Encyclopaedia
	were	spared	these	somewhat
hackneyed	philosophical	reflections.	Instead—in	the	form	of	a	footnote	inserted
by	Gentz’s	editor—they	were	given	a	specific	and	hitherto	unpublicised	episode
which	was	intended	to	illustrate	precisely	the	relationship	between	virtue	and
luck	which	Gentz	was	driving	at:
When	the	late	Elector	of	Hesse	had	to	flee	in	1806	as	the	French	approached,	his
large	private	fortune	very	nearly	became	Napoleon’s	booty.	R.	rescued	a
substantial	part	of	it	by	his	courage	and	cleverness,	although	not	without	risk	to
himself,	and	conscientiously	took	care	of	it.
In	the	1836	version,	the	story	was	elaborated	on.	Now,	it	was	said,	the	Elector
had:
left	the	recovery	of	his	private	possessions	to	Rothschild,	their	value	amounting
to	many	million	gulden.	It	was	only	by	sacrificing	the	whole	of	his	own	property
and	at	considerable	personal	risk	that	Rothschild	contrived	to	save	the	property
that	had	been	entrusted	to	him.	The	well-known	fact	that	all	Rothschild’s
possessions	had	been	confiscated	by	the	French	led	the	exiled	Elector	to	believe
that	his	own	property	had	been	lost	too.	Indeed	he	does	not	even	appear	to	have
thought	it	worth	while	to	make	enquiries	about	it.
But	he	underestimated	the	virtuous	Mayer	Amschel:
When	matters	had	settled	down	again,	Rothschild	immediately	proceeded	to
resume	business	with	the	property	he	had	saved	.	.	.	When	the	Elector	returned	to
his	states	in	1813,	the	House	of	Rothschild	not	merely	offered	immediately	to
return	to	him	the	capital	sums	with	which	they	had	been	entrusted;	they	also
undertook	to	pay	the	customary	rate	of	interest	from	the	day	when	they	had
received	them.	The	Elector,	positively	astonished	by	such	an	example	of	honesty
and	fair	dealing,	left	the	whole	of	his	capital	for	several	more	years	with	the
firm,	and	refused	any	interest	payments	in	respect	of	the	earlier	period,	accepting
a	low	rate	of	interest	only	as	from	the	time	of	his	return.	By	recommending	the
House	of	Rothschild	[to	others],	especially	at	the	
Congress	of	Vienna,	the
Elector	certainly	assisted	greatly	in	extending	their	connections.

--- Page 37 ---
This,	then,	was	“the	decisive	factor	in	the	enormous	.	.	.	development	of	[Mayer
Amschel’s]	business.”	Few	stories	in	financial	history	have	been	more	frequently
repeated,	and	the	Rothschilds	themselves	did	their	share	of	the	propagation.
Nathan	gave	a	potted	version	to	the	Liberal	MP	Thomas	Fowell	Buxton	over
dinner	in	1834,	while	the	version	in	the	1836	edition	of	Brockhaus	was	read	by
Carl	von	Rothschild	and	probably	expanded	by	his	sons’	tutor	Dr	Schlemmer.
The	story	was	even	the	subject	of	two	small	paintings	by	Moritz	Daniel
Oppenheim	which	the	family	commissioned	in	1861.
Yet	Gentz	did	not	portray	the	morality	tale	of	the	Elector’s	treasure	as	the	sole
explanation	for	the	Rothschilds’	subsequent	success:	he	also	had	some
illuminating	points	to	make	about	the	Rothschilds’	business	methods.	“Success
in	all	great	transactions,”	he	argued,	“does	not	depend	purely	on	the	choice	and
exploitation	of	the	favourable	moment,	but	much	more	on	the	application	of
consciously	adopted	and	fundamental	maxims.”	Besides	their	“shrewd
management	and	the	advantageous	circumstances,”	it	was	these	“principles”
which	the	Rothschilds	had	to	thank	for	the	greatest	part	of	their	success.	One	of
these	principles	obliged:
the	five	brothers	to	conduct	their	combined	businesses	in	an	uninterrupted
community	[of	interest]	.	.	.	any	proposal,	no	matter	where	it	comes	from,	is	the
object	of	collective	discussion;	each	operation,	even	if	it	is	of	minor	importance,
is	carried	out	according	to	an	agreed	plan	and	with	their	combined	efforts;	and
each	of	them	has	an	equal	share	in	its	results.
As	in	the	case	of	the	Elector’s	treasure,	the	notion	of	perfect	fraternal	harmony
was	very	probably	inspired	by	the	brothers	themselves.	When	they	submitted	a
design	for	a	coat	of	arms	in	1817	(following	their	ennoblement	by	the	Austrian
Emperor),	the	fourth	quarter	depicted	an	arm	bearing	five	arrows,	the	symbol	of
the	unity	of	the	five	brothers	which	the	firm	of	N.	M.	Rothschild	&	Sons	Ltd
continues	to	use	on	its	notepaper	to	this	day.	The	motto	later	adopted	by	the
brothers—“Concordia,	integritas,	industria”—was	intended	to	depict	precisely
the	virtues	listed	in	Brockhaus’s	
Encyclopaedia
.
Gentz	was	the	first	of	many	writers	to	write	about	the	Rothschilds	in
essentially	friendly	(if	not	sycophantic)	terms.	Perhaps	the	best	of	the	more
affectionate	representations	of	the	Rothschilds	can	be	found	in	the	novels	of
Benjamin	Disraeli,	who	came	to	know	the	family	intimately	(and	was	also,	like
Gentz,	not	uninterested	in	their	wealth).	In	Disraeli’s	
Coningsby
	(1844),	for
example,	the	resemblance	between	Sidonia	and	Lionel	de	Rothschild	is	close

--- Page 38 ---
(though	not	complete).	Sidonia’s	father	is	described	as	having	made	money	in
the	Peninsular	War:	he	then	“resolved	to	emigrate	to	England,	with	which	he
had,	in	the	course	of	years,	formed	considerable	commercial	connections.	He
arrived	here	after	the	peace	of	Paris,	with	his	large	capital.	He	staked	all	on	the
Waterloo	loan;	and	the	event	made	him	one	of	the	greatest	capitalists	in	Europe.”
After	the	war,	he	and	his	brothers	lent	their	money	to	the	European	states	and	he
“became	lord	and	master	of	the	money-market	of	the	world.”	The	younger
Sidonia	too	has	all	the	skills	of	a	banker:	he	is	an	accomplished	mathematician
and	“possessed	a	complete	mastery	over	the	principal	European	languages.”	In
Tancred
	(1847),	the	Rothschild-inspired	Jewess	Eva	asks:	“[W]ho	is	the	richest
man	in	Paris?”	to	which	Tancred	replies:	“The	brother,	I	believe,	of	the	richest
man	in	London.”	They	are,	of	course,	of	her	“race	and	faith.”	Admittedly,
Disraeli’s	Rothschild-based	characters	often	act	as	mouthpieces	for	the	author’s
own	somewhat	idiosyncratic	reflections	on	the	place	of	Jews	in	the	modern
world:	in	no	sense	can	they	be	regarded	as	“realistic”	portraits	of	individual
Rothschilds.	Nevertheless,	there	are	enough	traces	of	his	original	models	to	give
the	novels	a	genuine	value	to	the	historian.
Other	“positive”	fictional	representations	are	less	substantial.	An	Austrian
novella	of	the	1850s,	for	example,	portrayed	Salomon	von	Rothschild	as	a	kind
of	Viennese	Santa	Claus,	benignly	siding	with	a	carpenter’s	daughter	who	wants
to	marry	her	rich	father’s	gifted	but	poor	apprentice.	A	later	example	of	the	same
genre	is	Oscar	Wilde’s	short	story	“The	Model	Millionaire,	a	note	of	admiration”
(1887),	which	describes	how	an	impoverished	man-about-town	is	helped	to
marry	the	girl	he	loves	by	the	generosity	of	“Baron	Hausberg.”	Such	fairy
stories,	in	which	Rothschild-inspired	characters	are	cast	as	benign	dispensers	of
largesse,	have	echoes	in	some	of	the	twentieth-century	popular	works	about	the
family,	particularly	the	books	by	Balla,	Roth,	Morton,	Cowles	and	Wilson.	The
consciously	(and	sometimes	cloy	ingly)	positive	tenor	of	such	works	can	be
inferred	even	from	their	titles:	
The	Romance	of	the	Rothschilds
,	
The	Magnificent
Rothschilds
,	
A	Family	Portrait
,	
A	Family	of	Fortune
,	
A	Story	of	Wealth	and
Power
.	The	1969	musical	about	Mayer	Amschel	and	his	sons	represents	the
reductio	ad	absurdum
	of	this	sycophantic	tendency.	Here	the	family’s	early
history	is	transformed	into	a	sentimental	yarn	of	good	Jewish	boys	overcoming
the	deprivation	and	degradation	of	a	South	German	version	of	Hell’s	Kitchen:	in
a	word,	kitsch.
Yet	such	positive	representations	account	for	a	relatively	small	part	of	the
Rothschild	myth.	Indeed,	it	is	not	too	much	to	say	that	for	every	writer	who	has

--- Page 39 ---
been	willing	to	attribute	at	least	part	of	the	Rothschilds’	financial	success	to	their
virtues,	there	have	been	two	or	three	who	have	taken	the	opposite	view.
At	first,	in	the	1820s	and	1830s,	it	was	not	as	easy	to	attack	the	Rothschilds	in
print	as	it	later	became,	especially	in	Germany;	for	one	of	the	other	favours
Friedrich	Gentz	did	for	his	“friends”	was	to	send	instructions	to	newspapers	like
the	
Allgemeine	Zeitung
	that	the	Rothschilds	should	not	be	criticised.	Even	in
1843	the	radical	republican	Friedrich	Steinmann	still	found	it	impossible	to	find
a	publisher	for	his	detailed	and	highly	critical	history,	
The	House	of	Rothschild,
Its	History	and	Transactions
	;	it	did	not	appear	for	another	fifteen	years.	The
most	that	could	safely	be	indulged	in	were	mild	digs	of	the	sort	published	in
1826	by	the	German	economist	and	journalist	Friedrich	List,	whose	brief	report
of	a	theft	from	the	Paris	house	gratuitously	described	James	de	Rothschild	as
“the	mighty	lord	and	master	of	all	the	coined	and	uncoined	silver	and	gold	in	the
Old	World,	before	whose	money-box	Kings	and	Emperors	humbly	bow,	[the]
King	of	Kings.”	Even	in	relatively	liberal	England,	the	earliest	criticisms	of	the
Rothschilds	were	made	in	the	form	of	allegorical	cartoons	like	Cruikshank’s	
The
Jew	and	the	Doctor
,	or	under	the	protection	of	parliamentary	privilege,	like
Thomas	Duncombe’s	contemporaneous	allusion	in	1828	to	“a	new,	and
formidable	power,	till	these	days	unknown	in	Europe;	master	of	unbounded
wealth,	[who]	boasts	that	he	is	the	arbiter	of	peace	and	war,	and	that	the	credit	of
nations	depends	upon	his	nod.”
It	was	not	untypical,	therefore,	that	the	earliest	critique	of	the	Rothschilds
published	in	France	took	the	form	of	fiction.	In	
The	House	of	Nucingen
	(1837-
8),	Honoré	de	Balzac	portrayed	a	roguish	German-born	banker	who	had	made
his	fortune	from	a	series	of	bogus	bankruptcies,	forcing	his	creditors	to	accept
depreciated	paper	in	repayment.	The	resemblances	between	the	overbearing,
ruthless	and	coarse	Nucingen	and	James	de	Rothschild	were	too	numerous	to	be
coincidental;	and	in	his	
Splendours	and	Sorrows	of	Courtesans
	(1838-47),
Balzac	drew	a	famous	conclusion	which	applied	not	only	to	Nucingen	but	also,
by	implication,	to	James:	“All	rapidly	accumulated	wealth	is	either	the	result	of
luck	or	discovery,	or	the	result	of	a	legalised	theft.”
It	may	also	have	been	Balzac	who	originated	or	at	least	disseminated	what
rapidly	became	one	of	the	favourite	stories	in	the	anti-Rothschild	canon;	for	in
The	House	of	Nucingen
	he	describes	Nucingen’s	second	greatest	business	coup
as	a	massive	speculation	on	the	outcome	of	the	battle	of	Waterloo.	This	story
was	repeated	nine	years	later	in	Georges	Dairnvaell’s	scurrilous	pamphlet,	
The
Edifying	and	Curious	History	of	Rothschild	I,	King	of	the	Jews
	(1846),	which

--- Page 40 ---
claimed	that,	by	obtaining	the	first	news	of	Napoleon’s	defeat	at	Waterloo,
Nathan	had	been	able	to	make	a	huge	sum	of	money	by	speculating	on	the	stock
exchange.	In	later	versions	of	the	story,	Nathan	was	said	to	have	witnessed	the
battle	himself,	risking	a	Channel	storm	to	reach	London	ahead	of	the	official
news	of	Wellington’s	victory	and	thereby	pocketing	between	£20	and	£135
million.	Other	accounts	have	him	bribing	the	French	General	Grouchy	to	ensure
Wellington’s	victory;	and	then	deliberately	misreporting	the	outcome	in	London
in	order	to	precipitate	panic-selling.
Of	course,	it	is	possible	for	modern	writers	to	retell	the	Waterloo	legend	as	an
illustration	of	Nathan’s	business	acumen—indeed,	that	is	what	most	people
today	seem	to	infer	from	the	anecdote.	According	to	a	later	American	banker,
Bernard	Baruch,	it	even	inspired	him	to	make	his	first	million.	However,	the	idea
of	a	huge	speculative	profit	made	on	the	basis	of	advance	news	of	a	military
outcome	was	a	shocking	one	to	many	contemporaries:	indeed,	it	epitomised	the
kind	of	“immoral”	and	“unhealthy”	economic	activity	which	both	conservatives
and	radicals	disliked	when	they	contemplated	the	stock	exchange.	In	refusing
Gladstone’s	request	to	make	Lionel	de	Rothschild	a	peer,	Queen	Victoria
explicitly	questioned	whether	“one	who	owes	his	great	wealth	to	contracts	with
Foreign	Govts.	for	loans,	or	to	successful	speculations	on	the	Stock	Exchange
can	fairly	claim	a	British	peerage”	as	this	seemed	to	her	“not	the	less	a	species	of
gambling,	because	it	is	on	a	gigantic	scale—and	far	removed	from	that
legitimate	trading	which	she	delights	to	honour	.	.	.”
Another	contemporary	interpretation	of	the	Waterloo	story	was	as	an
illustration	of	Rothschild	political	neutrality:	by	implication,	if	Napoleon	had
won,	Nathan	would	have	been	a	bear	rather	than	a	bull	of	British	bonds.	Some
writers,	however,	chose	to	see	his	speculation	as	evidence	of	positive	support	for
the	coalition	against	Napoleon.	To	French	critics	especially,	the	Waterloo	story
symbolised	the	“unpatriotic”	(sometimes	German,	sometimes	British)
sympathies	of	the	family.	As	Dairnvaell	put	it,	“The	Rothschilds	have	only	ever
gained	from	our	disasters;	when	France	has	won,	the	Rothschilds	have	lost.”
That	the	Rothschilds	gave	their	financial	support	to	the	opponents	of	Napoleon
could	equally	well	be	taken	as	a	sign	of	their	political	conservatism;	as	could	the
fact	that	they	floated	loans	for	Austria,	Prussia	and	Bourbon	France	after	1815.
Indeed,	for	radical	opponents	of	the	legitimist	
regimes	restored	at	the	Vienna
Congress,	the	Rothschilds	were	notoriously	the	“chief	ally	of	the	Holy	Alliance.”
To	the	German	writer	Ludwig	Börne,	they	were	“the	nation’s	worst	enemies.
They	have	done	more	than	any	to	undermine	the	foundations	of	freedom,	and	it

--- Page 41 ---
is	unquestionable	that	most	of	the	peoples	of	Europe	would	by	this	time	be	in
full	possession	of	liberty	if	such	men	as	Rothschild	.	.	.	did	not	lend	the	autocrats
the	support	of	their	capital.”
Nevertheless,	it	was	not	always	easy	to	sustain	the	notion	that	the	Rothschilds
were	politically	biased	towards	conservative	regimes.	As	early	as	1823,	in	the
twelfth	canto	of	
Don	Juan
,	Byron	had	asked	“Who	hold	the	balance	of	the
world?	Who	reign	O’er	Congress,	whether	royalist	or	liberal?”	and	answered:
“Jew	Rothschild,	and	his	fellow	Christian	Baring.”	The	crucial	point	is	that
Byron	saw	“Rothschild”	as	influential	over	both	royalist	and	liberal	regimes,	his
power	stretching	as	far	afield	as	the	republics	of	Latin	America.	Even	before	the
1830	revolutions,	the	idea	was	gaining	currency	that	the	Rothschilds	were	more
than	merely	bankrolling	the	legitimist	regimes;	consciously	or	unconsciously,
they	were	acquiring	a	power	of	their	own	which	rivalled	and	perhaps	might	even
replace	that	of	the	monarchs	and	emperors.	The	events	of	1830,	when	Charles	X
was	toppled	from	the	French	throne	but	James	de	Rothschild	survived	unscathed,
seemed	to	confirm	this	notion	of	a	new	financial	royalty.	“Would	it	not	be	a	great
blessing	for	the	world,”	asked	Börne	sarcastically	in	1832,	“if	all	the	kings	were
dismissed	and	the	Rothschild	family	put	on	their	thrones?”	William	Makepeace
Thackeray	joked	that	“N.	M.	Rothschild,	Esq.	.	.	.	play[ed]	with	new	kings	as
young	Misses	with	dolls.”	Heinrich	Heine	described	Nathan	sitting	as	if	on	a
throne	and	speaking	“like	a	king,	with	courtiers	all	around	him.”	The	same	point
underlies	Heine’s	vision	of	a	children’s	fancy-dress	ball	given	by	Salomon:
The	children	wore	lovely	fancy	dress,	and	they	played	at	making	loans.	They
were	dressed	up	like	kings,	with	crowns	on	their	heads,	but	there	was	one	of	the
bigger	lads	who	was	dressed	exactly	like	old	Nathan	Rothschild.	He	played	his
part	very	well,	kept	both	hands	in	his	trouser-pockets,	rattled	his	money	and
shook	with	bad	temper	when	one	of	the	little	kings	wanted	to	borrow	off	him	.	.	.
Elsewhere,	Heine	analysed	the	ambivalent	nature	of	the	Rothschilds’	power	in
more	detail.	He	acknowledged	that	in	the	short	term	it	served	to	shore	up	the
reactionary	regimes	because	“revolutions	are	generally	triggered	off	by
deficiency	of	money”	and	“the	Rothschild	system	.	.	.	prevent[ed]	such
deficiencies.”	However,	he	insisted	that	the	Rothschild	“system”	was	also
potentially	revolutionary	in	itself:
No	one	does	more	to	further	the	revolution	than	the	Rothschilds	themselves	.	.	.
and,	though	it	may	sound	even	more	strange,	these	Rothschilds,	the	bankers	of
kings,	these	princely	pursestring-holders,	whose	existence	might	be	placed	in	the

--- Page 42 ---
gravest	danger	by	a	collapse	of	the	European	state	system,	nevertheless	carry	in
their	minds	a	consciousness	of	their	revolutionary	mission.
“I	see	in	Rothschild,”	he	went	on,	“one	of	the	greatest	revolutionaries	who
have	founded	modern	democracy”:
Rothschild	.	.	.	destroyed	the	predominance	of	land,	by	raising	the	system	of
state	bonds	to	supreme	power,	thereby	mobilising	property	
and	income	and	at
the	same	time	endowing	money	with	the	previous	privileges	of	the	land.	He
thereby	created	a	new	aristocracy,	it	is	true,	but	this,	resting	as	it	does	on	the
most	unreliable	of	elements,	on	money,	can	never	play	as	enduringly	regressive	a
role	as	the	former	aristocracy,	which	was	rooted	in	the	land,	in	the	earth	itself.
Not	only	had	the	Rothschilds	replaced	the	old	aristocracy;	they	also	represented
a	new	materialist	religion.	“[M]oney	is	the	god	of	our	time,”	declared	Heine	in
March	1841,	“and	Rothschild	is	his	prophet.”
Nothing	seemed	to	illustrate	better	the	revolutionary	significance	of	the
Rothschilds	than	their	role	as	railway	developers.	When	the	Rothschild-financed
lines	to	Orléans	and	Rouen	were	opened	in	1843,	Heine	wrote	breathlessly	of	a
social	“tremor”	with	unforeseeable	implications.	By	this	time,	however,	a	new
note	of	scepticism	can	be	detected	in	his	allusions	to	the	growing	power	of	the
“ruling	aristocracy	of	money”	and	the	apparent	convergence	of	their	interests
with	those	of	the	old	landed	aristocracy.	In	the	course	of	the	1840s	a	growing
number	of	journalists	began	to	express	a	more	pronounced	hostility	than	Heine
ever	dared—indebted	as	he	was	(and	hoped	to	remain)	to	the	Rothschilds.	In
particular,	James’s	securing	of	the	rail	concession	to	link	Paris	and	Belgium
incensed	more	radical	critics	of	the	July	Monarchy.	Thus	Alphonse	Toussenel’s
The	Jews,	Kings	of	the	Epoch:	A	History	of	Financial	Feudalism
	(1846)	was
primarily	directed	against	the	financial	terms	under	which	the	concession	had
been	granted.
At	one	level,	Toussenel	was	a	kind	of	socialist	who	believed	that	the	French
rail	network	should	be	owned	and	managed	by	the	state.	However,	his	critique	of
the	Rothschilds	as	capitalists	was	inseparably	linked	to	an	argument	about	their
Jewishness.	France	had	been	“sold	to	the	Jews”	and	the	railways	were	directly	or
indirectly	controlled	by	“Baron	Rothschild,	the	King	of	Finance,	a	Jew	ennobled
by	a	very	Christian	King.”	It	was	this	aspect	of	Toussenel’s	book	which	inspired
the	most	imitation.	Like	Toussenel,	the	anonymous	author	of	
Judgement	Passed
against	Rothschild	and	Georges	Dairnvaell
	equated	Judaism	and	capitalism:
James	was	“the	Jew	Rothschild,	king	of	the	world,	because	today	the	whole

--- Page 43 ---
world	is	Jewish.”	The	name	Rothschild	“stands	for	a	whole	race—it	is	a	symbol
of	a	power	which	extends	its	arms	over	the	entirety	of	Europe.”	At	the	same
time,	in	“exploiting	all	that	is	exploitable,”	the	Rothschilds	were	merely	“the
model	of	all	the	bourgeois	and	mercantile	virtues.”	The	connections	between
tracts	like	these	and	what	later	developed	into	Marxism	are	well	known.	In	his
notorious	1844	essay	“On	the	Jewish	Question,”	Karl	Marx	himself	spelt	out	his
view	of	“the	real	Jew,”	by	which	he	meant	the	capitalist,	irrespective	of	his
religious	background.	When,	in	the	wake	of	the	1848-9	revolutions,	the
Rothschilds	seemed	to	emerge	intact	along	with	the	majority	of	the	regimes
temporarily	overthrown,	the	moral	was	obvious	to	Marx:	“[E]very	tyrant	is
backed	by	a	Jew,	as	is	every	Pope	by	a	Jesuit.”
By	the	1850s,	then,	Heine’s	notion	that	the	Rothschilds	were	in	some	sense
the	allies	of	revolutionary	change	seemed	to	have	been	comprehensively
discredited	and	replaced	by	a	critique	of	the	Rothschilds	not	only	as	defenders	of
the	political	status	quo,	but	also	as	archetypal	capitalists	and	therefore	economic
exploiters.	It	tended	to	be	writers	on	the	revolutionary	left	in	the	1840s	who	were
most	keen	to	equate	this	with	their	Judaism—though	it	was	never	really
explained	
why
	Jews	should	have	such	
different	attitudes	towards	economic
activity	from	Gentiles.	(For	a	coherent—if	largely	fanciful	and	self-referential—
explanation	of	Rothschild	business	success	as	a	function	of	their	religion	and
their	race,	we	need	to	turn	back	to	Disraeli’s	
Coningsby
	
and	
Tancred
.)
Further	distinctions	were	possible.	In	the	France	of	the	Second	Empire,	some
contemporaries	differentiated	between	the	Rothschilds	and	other	Jews—between
the	conservative	
haute	banque
,	personified	by	the	Rothschilds,	and	the	“new”
bank,	embodied	by	the	Crédit	Mobilier	which	the	Saint-Simonian	Pereire
brothers	had	established.	Thus	the	Crédit	Mobilier	was	portrayed	by	many
writers	as	a	primarily	political	challenge	to	the	dominance	of	the	Rothschilds
over	French	public	finance—Napoleon	III’s	bid	to	“free	himself”	from
Rothschild	tutelage.	Unlike	most	of	the	overtly	anti-Semitic	critiques	of	the
Rothschilds,	this	has	proved	a	more	respectable	line	of	argument:	the	Crédit
Mobilier	is	still	sometimes	portrayed	as	a	revolutionary	new	kind	of	bank,
pursuing	industrialisation	as	a	developmental	strategy	in	contradistinction	to	the
“old”	and	implicitly	parasitical	private	banks	led	by	the	Rothschilds.	But
contemporaries—notably	the	financier	Jules	Isaac	Mirès—sometimes	attributed
this	difference	in	style	to	the	different	cultural	backgrounds	of	the	two	families
(the	Pereires	were	Sephardic	Jews,	originally	from	Spain,	the	Rothschilds
Ashkenazim).	Others	conceived	of	the	difference	in	more	traditional	political

--- Page 44 ---
terms:	Rothschild	represented	“the	aristocracy	of	money”	and	“financial
feudalism”	while	his	rivals	stood	for	“financial	democracy”	and	an	economic
“1789.”	In	those	terms,	the	decline	and	fall	of	the	Crédit	Mobilier	in	the	1860s
seemed	to	be	more	than	just	a	financial	event:	it	was	a	harbinger	of	the	collapse
of	the	Second	Empire	itself.	Even	in	modern	historiography,	James’s	famous
epigram,	“L’Empire,	c’est	la	baisse,”	is	often	cited	as	the	death-knell	for	the
Bonapartist	regime	and	a	reassertion	of	the	
haute	banque
’s	political	supremacy
in	France.
The	advent	of	a	republic	in	1870	did	nothing	to	dam	the	stream	of	French	anti-
Rothschild	literature,	however.	All	that	happened	was	that	the	attacks	now	came
from	the	right	rather	than	the	left.	To	those	snobbish	salon	conservatives,	the
Goncourt	brothers,	the	Rothschilds	seemed	to	be	the	“Pariah	kings	of	the	world	.
.	.	coveting	everything	and	controlling	everything.”	Under	the	veil	of
republicanism,	absolutism	had	been	restored;	but	it	was	a	corrupt	and	alien
absolutism	quite	unlike	the	monarchical	and	imperial	versions	which	had	gone
before.	The	catalyst	for	a	fresh	explosion	of	publications	hostile	to	the
Rothschilds	was	the	collapse	of	the	Union	Générale	bank	in	1882,	which	its
founder	bitterly	blamed	on	“Jewish	finance”	and	its	ally	“governmental
freemasonry.”	In	his	novel	
L’Argent
,	Emile	Zola	portrayed	the	affair	as	a	triumph
for	the	Rothschildian	figure	of	Gundermann,	“the	banker	king,	the	master	of	the
bourse	and	of	the	world	.	.	.	the	man	who	knew	[all]	secrets,	who	made	the
markets	rise	and	fall	at	his	pleasure	as	God	makes	the	thunder	.	.	.	the	king	of
gold.”	But	Zola	at	least	acknowledged	that	there	had	been	a	conscious	attempt
by	anti-Jewish	Catholics	to	overthrow	Gundermann.	It	took	the	twisted	mind	of
Edouard	Drumont	to	argue—in	his	
Jewish	France
	(1886)—that	the	Union
Générale	had	itself	been	established	by	the	Jews	to	rob	Catholics	of	their
savings.	“The	God	Rothschild,”	Drumont	concluded,	was	the	real	“master”	of
France.	Another	purveyor	of	similar	libels	was	Auguste	Chirac,	whose	
Kings	of
the	Republic
	(1883)	and	
The	Speculation	of	1870	to	1884
	(1887)	denounced	the
subjugation	of	the	Republic	to	“a	
king
	named	Rothschild,	with	a	courtesan	or
maid	called	
Jewish	finance
.”
Such	polemics	against	the	social	and	political	power	wielded	by	the
Rothschilds	were	probably	most	numerous	in	France,	but	they	had	their
counterparts	elsewhere.	In	Germany,	for	example,	the	Rothschilds	were	attacked
in	books	like	
The	Frankfurt	Jews	and	the	Mulcting	of	the	People’s	Well-being
published	by	“Germanicus”	in	1880,	Max	Bauer’s	crudely	racialist	pamphlet
Bismarck	and	Rothschild
	(1891),	or	Friedrich	von	Scherb’s	1893	
History	of	the

--- Page 45 ---
House	of	Rothschild
.	Such	works	found	an	echo	in	the	rhetoric	of	the	anti-
Semitic	“People’s”	and	“Christian	Social”	parties	which	enjoyed	moderate
electoral	success	in	parts	of	Germany	and	Austria;	Social	Democrats	also
sometimes	talked	in	this	way.	Indeed,	so	all-pervasive	did	the	idea	of	Rothschild
power	become	that	the	academically	respected	(though	since	discredited)	Werner
Sombart	could	assert	in	his	book	
The	Jews	and	Economic	Life
	(1911):	“[T]he
modern	stock	exchange	is	Rothschildish	(and	thus	Jewish).”
English	examples	can	also	be	found.	There,	as	on	the	continent,	“anti-
Rothschildism”	was	as	likely	to	come	from	the	left	as	from	the	right.	A	good
illustration	is	John	Reeves’s	book	
The	Rothschilds:	The	Financial	Rulers	of
Nations
	(1887),	which	returns	a	typical	verdict:	“The	Rothschilds	belong	to	no
one	nationality,	they	are	cosmopolitan	.	.	.	they	belonged	to	no	party,	they	were
ready	to	grow	rich	at	the	expense	of	friend	and	foe	alike.”
Reeves’s	argument	that	the	Rothschilds	wielded	international	as	well	as
internal	political	power	was	nothing	new.	As	early	as	the	1830s,	an	American
magazine	could	marvel:	“Not	a	cabinet	moves	without	their	advice.	They	stretch
their	hand,	with	equal	ease,	from	Petersburg	to	Vienna,	from	Vienna	to	Paris,
from	Paris	to	London,	from	London	to	Washington.”	They	were,	according	to
the	English	diarist	Thomas	Raikes,	“the	metallic	sovereigns	of	Europe.”
Alexandre	Weill’s	essay	“Rothschild	and	the	Finances	of	Europe”	(1841)	went
even	further	(in	Reeves’s	translation):
There	is	but	one	power	in	Europe	and	that	is	Rothschild.	His	satellites	are	a
dozen	other	banking	firms;	his	soldiers,	his	squires,	all	respectable	men	of
business	and	merchants;	and	his	sword	is	speculation.	Rothschild	is	a
consequence	that	was	bound	to	appear;	and,	if	it	had	not	been	a	Rothschild,	it
would	have	been	someone	else.	He	is,	however,	by	no	means	an	accidental
consequence,	but	a	primary	consequence,	called	into	existence	by	the	principles
which	have	guided	the	European	states	since	1815.	Rothschild	had	need	of	the
states	to	become	a	Rothschild,	while	the	states	on	their	side	required	Rothschild.
Now,	however,	he	no	longer	needs	the	State,	but	the	State	still	has	want	of	him.
An	anonymous	German	cartoonist	made	essentially	the	same	point	(though	more
vividly)	in	1845	when	he	portrayed	a	grotesquely	caricatured	Jew—manifestly	a
composite	Rothschild—as	“Die	Generalpumpe,”	a	monstrous	engine	pumping
money	around	the	world,	with	tentacles	extending	to	control	monarchs	and
ministers	as	far	away	as	Spain	and	Egypt.	A	similar	image	appeared	in	Wilhelm
Marr’s	
Mephistopheles
	in	1850,	portraying	“Rothschild”	surrounded	by	the

--- Page 46 ---
kings	of	Europe,	all	holding	out	their	hands	for	money,	and	again	in	1870,	when
Lionel	
was	depicted	in	the	same	pose	by	the	
Period
.	Twenty-four	years	later,	the
American	populist	“Coin”	Harvey	envisioned	“Rothschilds”	as	a	vast,	black
octopus	stretching	its	tentacles	around	the	world.	The	French	cartoonist	Léandre
likewise	portrayed	Alphonse	de	Rothschild	as	a	giant	vampire,	grasping	the
world	in	his	claws.
The	crucial	question,	however,	was	what	
use
	the	Rothschilds	made	of	this
ubiquitous	financial	power.	Was	it	merely	an	end	itself,	the	result	of	a
pathological	appetite	for	interest	and	commissions?	Perhaps	the	most	frequent
contemporary	answer	to	this	question	was	that	it	enabled	the	Rothschilds	to
prevent	wars.	As	early	as	1828	Prince	Pückler-Muskau	referred	to	“Rothschild	.	.
.	without	whom	no	power	in	Europe	today	seems	able	to	make	war.”	Three	years
later	Ludwig	Börne	explicitly	argued	that	Rothschild	sales	of	Austrian
government	bonds	had	prevented	Metternich	from	intervening	to	check	the
spread	of	revolution	in	Italy	and	Belgium.	He	also	implied	strongly	that	the
Rothschilds	were	keen	to	see	France	adopt	a	more	pacific	policy	towards
Austria.	Similar	claims	were	made	by	political	insiders	too,	for	example	by	the
Austrian	diplomat	Graf	Prokesch	von	Osten	in	December	1830:	“It	is	all	a
question	of	ways	and	means	and	what	Rothschild	says	is	decisive,	and	he	won’t
give	any	money	for	war.”	After	the	Polish	crisis	of	1863,	Disraeli	claimed	that
“the	peace	of	the	world	has	been	preserved,	not	by	the	statesmen,	but	by	the
capitalists.”	Even	a	hostile	writer	like	Toussenel	took	the	same	line:	“The	Jew
speculates	on	peace
,	that	is	on	a	rise,	and	that	explains	why	peace	in	Europe	has
lasted	for	fifteen	years.”	Later	authors	have	echoed	this	time	and	again.	Chirac
purported	to	quote	a	Rothschild	saying:	“There	will	be	no	war	because	the
Rothschilds	do	not	want	it.”	According	to	Morton,	the	five	sons	of	Mayer
Amschel	were	“the	most	militant	pacifists	ever.”	And	few	writers	omit	the
anecdote	which	attributes	to	Gutle	Rothschild	the	declaration:	“It	won’t	come	to
war;	my	sons	won’t	provide	money	for	it.”
To	modern	readers,	it	is	axiomatic	that	the	avoidance	of	war	is	a	good	thing,
even	if	we	have	come	to	doubt	the	ability	of	bankers	to	achieve	it.	However,	in
the	era	of	military	conflicts	which	began	with	the	Crimean	War	and	ended	with
the	Franco-Prussian	War,	there	were	often	those	who	questioned	the	Rothschilds’
motivations	in	seeking	to	preserve	peace.	At	the	time	of	the	wars	of	Italian
unification—which	it	was	believed	they	were	anxious	to	avert—the	Earl	of
Shaftesbury	found	it	“strange,	fearful,	humiliating”	that	“the	destinies	of	this
nation	are	the	sport	of	an	infidel	Jew!”	The	Rothschilds’	New	York	agent	August

--- Page 47 ---
Belmont	was	widely	attacked	in	the	North	during	the	American	Civil	War
because	he	favoured	a	negotiated	peace	with	the	South	and	supported	General
George	McClellan’s	nom	ination	as	Democrat	candidate	in	1864.	In	much	the
same	way,	the	Prussian	government	was	irked	by	the	Rothschilds’	efforts	to	avert
military	confrontation	during	the	“wars	of	unification,”	when	Bismarck	actively
desired	it.	Similar	criticisms	of	Rothschild	“pacifism”	can	be	found	in	the
diplomatic	and	political	correspondence	of	the	great	powers	before	and	after	the
turn	of	the	century.	To	give	a	final	hostile	example,	the	foreign	editor	(and	later
editor)	of	
The	Times
,	Henry	Wickham	Steed,	described	Natty’s	efforts	to	avert	a
war	between	Germany	and	Britain	in	July	1914	as	“a	dirty	German-Jewish
international	financial	attempt	to	bully	us	into	advocating	neutrality.”
Yet	other	commentators—on	both	Left	and	Right—often	took	the	opposite
line:	
that	the	Rothschilds	positively	fomented	wars.	In	1891	the	
Labour	Leader
denounced	the	Rothschilds	as	a
blood-sucking	crew	[which]	has	been	the	cause	of	untold	mischief	and	misery	in
Europe	during	the	present	century,	and	has	piled	up	its	prodigious	wealth	chiefly
through	fomenting	wars	between	States	which	ought	never	to	have	quarrelled.
Wherever	there	is	trouble	in	Europe,	wherever	rumours	of	war	circulate	and
men’s	minds	are	distraught	with	fear	of	change	and	calamity,	you	may	be	sure
that	a	hook-nosed	Rothschild	is	at	his	games	somewhere	near	the	region	of	the
disturbance.
The	case	was	put	in	a	more	sophisticated	form	by	the	left-leaning	Liberal	J.	A.
Hobson,	author	of	the	classic	
Imperialism:	A	Study
	(1902).	Like	many	radical
writers	of	the	period,	Hobson	regarded	the	Boer	War	as	having	been	engineered
“by	a	small	group	of	international	financiers,	chiefly	German	in	origin	and
Jewish	in	race.”	The	Rothschilds,	in	his	view,	were	central	to	this	group:	“Does
anyone	seriously	suppose,”	he	asked	in	
Imperialism
,	“that	a	great	war	could	be
undertaken	by	any	European	State,	or	any	great	State	loan	subscribed,	if	the
house	of	Rothschild	and	its	connexions	set	their	face	against	it?”	Scherb	had
made	much	the	same	point	from	a	German	nationalist	perspective	in	his	
History
:
“The	House	of	Rothschild	has	arisen	from	the	quarrels	between	states,	has
become	great	and	mighty	from	wars	[and]	the	misfortune	of	states	and	peoples
has	been	its	fortune.”
War	or	peace?	There	was,	however,	another	possibility:	that	the	Rothschilds
saw	their	financial	power	as	a	means	to	advance	the	interests	of	their	fellow
Jews.	To	poorer	Jews	throughout	Europe,	Nathan	Rothschild’s	extraordinary	rise

--- Page 48 ---
to	riches	had	an	almost	mystical	significance—hence	the	legend	of	the	“Hebrew
talisman,”	the	magical	source	of	his	good	luck,	which	became	associated	with
him	in	Jewish	lore.	This	extraordinary	story—a	version	of	which	was	published
by	an	anonymous	author	in	London	just	four	years	after	Nathan	Rothschild’s
death—imagined	that	the	source	of	Nathan’s	financial	success	was	his
possession	of	a	magical	talisman.	His	wealth	was	in	fact	intended	for	a	higher
purpose:	“to	avenge	the	wrongs	of	Israel”	by	securing	“the	re-establishment	of
Judah’s	kingdom—the	rebuilding	of	thy	towers,	Oh!	Jerusalem!”	and	“the
restoration	of	Judea	to	our	ancient	race.”
The	notion	that	the	Rothschilds	had	a	design	to	reclaim	the	Holy	Land	for	the
Jewish	people	was	frequently	canvassed	in	more	serious	terms	than	these.	As
early	as	1830	an	American	journal	suggested	that	“the	pecuniary	distress	of	the
sultan”	might	lead	him	to	sell	Jerusalem	to	the	Rothschilds.	The	French	socialist
Charles	Fourier	raised	the	same	possibility	in	his	book	
The	False	Industry
	in
1836.	Disraeli	too	spoke	in	1851	of	the	Jews	being	“restor[ed]	.	.	.	to	their	own
land”	with	the	help	of	Rothschild	money.	And	the	same	idea	can	be	found	in
popular	stories	from	the	Russian	Pale	of	Settlement	like	“The	Czar	in
Rothschild’s	Castle.”
The	other	possibility	(also	raised	in	this	story)	was	that	the	Rothschilds	might
use	their	financial	power	to	force	the	Tsar	to	cease	his	persecution	of	the	Russian
Jews.	This	illustrated	the	choice	which	East	European	Jews	had	to	contemplate
throughout	the	nineteenth	century:	should	one	emigrate	to	some	remote
promised	land,	or	stay	and	seek	equality	before	the	law?	In	the	early	part	of	the
century,	West	European	Jews	had	faced	the	same	dilemma.	Significantly,	the
author	of	the	
Hebrew	
Talisman
	concluded	his	tract	by	accusing	Nathan	of
preferring	the	comforts	of	social	assimilation	in	England	to	the	rigours	of	his
holy	mission.	Indeed,	he	claimed	that	Nathan’s	death	was	the	result	of	his
decision	to	seek	political	emancipation	in	England—and	a	peerage	for	himself—
rather	than	continuing	to	strive	for	the	restoration	of	Jerusalem.
The	central	dilemma	which	confronted	the	Rothschilds	lay	here:	because	of
their	wealth,	other	Jews	looked	to	them	for	leadership	in	their	pursuit	of	equal
civil	and	political	rights.	As	we	shall	see,	this	leadership	was	forthcoming	from	a
remarkably	early	stage,	beginning	with	Mayer	Amschel’s	efforts	to	achieve	civil
rights	for	the	Frankfurt	Jews	in	the	era	of	the	Napoleonic	Wars,	and	continuing
with	his	grandson	Lionel’s	campaign	to	secure	the	admission	of	Jews	to	the
House	of	Commons	in	the	1840s	and	1850s.	It	was	a	strategy	which	suited	the
Rothschilds	well,	allowing	them	to	pursue	their	own	familial	strategy	of

--- Page 49 ---
penetrating	the	social	and	political	elites	where	they	lived	without	converting
from	Judaism;	and	allowing	them	to	do	good	works	on	behalf	of	their	“co-
religionists”	while	at	the	same	time	acquiring	quasi-royal	status	in	the	eyes	of
other	Jews.	However,	the	more	the	Rothschilds	sought	to	pursue	emancipation	as
an	international	objective—intervening	on	behalf	of	Jewish	communities	in
Syria,	Rumania	and	Russia	as	well	as	in	the	countries	where	they	themselves
resided—the	more	they	encouraged	the	argument	of	anti-Semites	that	the	Jews
were	a	cosmopolitan	race	with	no	real	national	attachment.	At	the	same	time,
when	other	Jews,	despairing	of	assimilation	as	an	objective,	began	to	press	for
some	kind	of	return	to	the	Holy	Land,	the	Rothschilds’	position	was	further
compromised;	for	they	themselves	had	no	desire	to	forsake	their	palatial	town
and	country	residences	for	barren	Palestine.	But	that	was	just	what	their	anti-
Semitic	enemies	desired.	Hostile	cartoons	from	the	1840s	and	1890s	depicted	the
Rothschilds	in	a	throng	of	Jews	leaving	Germany	for	the	Holy	Land—travelling
first	class,	but	leaving	nonetheless.	Commenting	on	Lionel’s	campaign	for
admission	to	the	House	of	Commons,	Thomas	Carlyle	asked:	“[H]ow	can	a	real
Jew,	by	possibility,	try	to	be	a	Senator,	or	even	a	Citizen	of	any	country,	except
his	own	wretched	Palestine,	whither	all	his	thoughts	and	steps	and	efforts	tend?”
This	was	broadly	the	argument	(though	not	the	language)	of	the	early	Zionists
like	Theodor	Herzl,	who	came	to	believe	that	the	only	“solution	to	the	Jewish
question”	was	indeed	for	the	Jews	to	leave	Europe	and	found	their	own
Judenstaat
.	Herzl	made	a	succession	of	attempts	to	win	the	support	of	the
Rothschilds	in	the	belief	that	they	were	about	to	“liquidate”	their	vast	capital	as	a
response	to	anti-Semitic	attacks.	But	his	sixty-six-page	address	“to	the
Rothschild	Family	Council”	was	never	sent,	as	he	concluded	from	an	initial
rebuff	that	they	were	“vulgar,	contemptuous,	egoistical	people.”	The
Rothschilds,	he	later	declared,	were	“a	national	misfortune	for	the	Jews”;	he
even	threatened	to	“liquidate”	them	or	to	“wage	a	barbaric	campaign”	against
them	if	they	opposed	him.
If	a	Zionist	could	use	such	language	in	the	1890s,	it	is	perhaps	not	surprising
that	the	radical	anti-Semites	who	flourished	in	the	defeated	states	of	Central
Europe	after	the	First	World	War	did	so	too,	albeit	with	a	very	different	rationale.
Indeed,	perhaps	the	most	interesting	thing	about	early	National	Socialist	or
völkisch
	propaganda	directed	against	the	Rothschilds	is	its	very	lack	of
originality.	A	good	example	is	Dietrich	Eckart’s	address	“To	All	Working
People”	of	1919:
The	House	of	Rothschild	owns	forty	billion!	.	.	.	[They]	only	need	to	administer

--- Page 50 ---
their	wealth,	to	see	that	it	is	nicely	placed,	they	do	not	need	to	work,	at	least	not
what	we	understand	by	work.	But	who	provides	them	and	their	like	with	such	an
enormous	amount	of	money?	.	.	.	Who	does	this?	You	do	it,	nobody	but	you!
That’s	right,	it	is	your	money,	hard-earned	through	care	and	sorrow,	which	is
drawn	as	if	magnetically	into	the	coffers	of	these	insatiable	people.
This	was	little	different	from	the	kind	of	thing	radicals	had	been	saying	in	France
as	well	as	in	Germany	since	the	1840s.	Another	early	National	Socialist	who
cited	the	Rothschilds	as	examples	of	the	“Jewish	problem”	he	pledged	to	“solve”
was	Adolf	Hitler.	In	an	article	in	the	Nazi	
Völkische	Beobachter
	in	May	1921,
for	example,	he	named	them	as	one	of	a	group	of	Jewish	“capitalists”	who
controlled	the	socialist	press.	On	at	least	two	occasions	in	1922	he	gave	speeches
in	which	he	referred	to	“the	significant	difference	between	the	achievements	of	a
man	like	Alfred	Krupp,	who	has	bequeathed	an	immense	national	achievement
through	his	indefatigable	work	as	an	innovator,	and	the	rapacity	of	a	Rothschild,
who	financed	wars	and	revolutions	and	brought	the	peoples	into	interest-
servitude	through	loans.”	Alfred	Rosenberg	made	a	similar	point	in	his	book	
The
Myth	of	the	Twentieth	Century
.
Hitler’s	use	of	the	past	tense	was	not	accidental,	for	by	the	1920s	there	was	no
longer	a	Rothschild	bank	in	Frankfurt,	and	even	the	three	remaining	Rothschild
houses	in	London,	Paris	and	Vienna	had	ceased	to	play	a	major	role	in	the
German	economy.	Yet	that	did	not	stop	the	Nazis	from	repeatedly	using	the
Rothschilds	as	a	subject	for	their	anti-Semitic	propaganda	once	they	came	to
power:	the	old	myths	were	recycled	and	embroidered	to	illustrate	the	various
racial	characteristics	which	Hitler	so	detested.	For	example,	Eberhard	Müller’s
play	
Rothschild	Wins	at	Waterloo
	
(1936)	portrayed	Nathan	on	the	field	of	battle,
intoning	lines	like:	“My	money	is	everywhere,	and	my	money	is	friendly.	It	is
the	friendliest	power	in	the	world,	fat,	round	as	a	bullet	and	smiling”;	“My
Fatherland	is	the	London	Stock	Exchange”;	and	“The	wealth	of	England	is	in	my
hands.”	Similar	themes	were	taken	up	in	May	1938	when	Julius	Streicher’s	anti-
Jewish	exhibition	was	sent	to	Vienna	with	a	room	devoted	exclusively	to	the
House	of	Rothschild.	A	later	version	in	Frankfurt	put	on	display	forged
“facsimiles	of	letters”	by	Mayer	Amschel	to	“an	English	banker”	which
appeared	to	explain	“how	he	planned	to	send	his	five	sons	all	over	Europe	for
the	purpose	of	dominating	all	Gentile	commerce	and	finance.”
The	culmination	of	the	Nazis’	anti-Rothschild	propaganda	was	Erich
Waschnek’s	film	
Die	Rothschilds
,	which	was	screened	for	the	first	time	in	July
1940	and	then	re-released	after	further	editing	a	year	later	with	the	sub-title

--- Page 51 ---
Aktien	auf	Waterloo
	
(“Shares	in	Waterloo”).	This	was	one	of	a	trio	of	films
designed	to	prepare	the	German	population	for	harsher	measures	against	the
Jews:	the	others	were	
Jud-Süss
	
and	the	notorious	“documentary”	
Der	ewige	Jude
(“The	Eternal	Jew”).	It	is	true	that	the	Waterloo	legend	presented	problems	for
the	Propaganda	Ministry	at	a	time	of	uncertainty	about	the	correct	“line”	to	take
towards	Britain.	While	some	British	characters	(Wellington	and	the	“Finance
Minister”	Herries)	are	portrayed	as	corrupt	and	morally	degenerate,	others—in
particular	the	banker	“Turner”	and	his	Irish	wife—are	cast	sympathetically	as
victims	of	the	Rothschilds’	machinations.	But	the	
portrayal	of	the	Rothschilds
themselves	is	unambiguous	enough,	as	the	plot	summary	drafted	by	the	Allies
after	the	war	shows:
In	1806	the	“Landgraf	”	of	Hesse	escaping	Napoleon	has	to	entrust	his	fortune	of
£6,000,000	to	somebody	for	safekeeping.	He	deposits	the	money	with	the	Jewish
banker,	Meyer	Amschel	Rothschild	in	Frankfurt.	The	abusive	use	of	this	money
becomes	the	foundation	for	the	power	of	the	Rothschilds.	Amschel	Rothschild
sends	the	money	to	his	son	Nathan	who	is	not	respected	by	his	business	rivals.
But	Nathan	ruthlessly	outwits	all	of	them.	He	gets	money	to	Wellington	in	Spain
with	the	help	of	his	brother	in	Paris—Nathan	is	the	first	to	receive	news	that
Napoleon	has	escaped	from	Elba	and	the	only	one	to	gamble	all	he	possesses	on
the	reinstatement	of	Louis	of	Orleans	[
sic
].	He	is	a	joke	in	Society—nobody
takes	him	seriously	but	his	Jewish	hirelings	and	the	British	Ministry	of	Finance.
“Lord”	Wellington	is	again	sent	to	fight	Napoleon.	He	has	very	little	time	to
prepare	for	the	war—the	ladies	keep	him	busy!	But	he	has	time	enough	(just	as
Fouché	does	in	Paris)	to	confer	with	Rothschild	who	implies	that	Wellington	will
be	well	rewarded	if	Rothschild	is	the	first	to	know	the	outcome	of	the	battle.	The
moment	Rothschild	hears	that	Napoleon	is	beaten	he	spreads	news	that	the
English	cause	is	lost.	A	panic	follows—everybody	sells	Government	Bonds—
Rothschild	buys	them.	The	poor	lose	their	money.	The	few	honourable	rich
Englishmen	(one	of	them	is	pictured	as	extremely	decent	due	to	the	fact	that	he
is	married	to	an	Irish	woman!)	lose	all	they	own.	The	star	of	David	lies	over
England—over	the	part	of	the	world	that	Nazi	Germany	fights.
All	the	themes	of	Nazi	anti-Semitism	are	here.	The	Jews	have	no	allegiance	to
the	countries	where	they	live	and	merely	wish	to	profit	from	the	sufferings	of
others:	“You	can	only	make	a	lot	of	money	with	a	lot	of	blood!”	Mayer	Amschel
(Erich	Ponto)	tells	Nathan	(Karl	Kuhlmann).	Under	their	direction,
“International	Jewry”	engages	in	“gigantic	speculations”	while	“soldiers	bleed	to

--- Page 52 ---
death	on	the	battlefields.”	The	Jews	are	physically	different	and	repellent:	Mayer
Amschel	sports	a	kaftan	and	ringlets,	while	his	oleaginous	son	lusts	grotesquely
after	the	wife	of	his	Aryan	rival—a	typical	Goebbels	touch.	Despite	the
Propaganda	Minister’s	apparent	dissatisfaction	with	the	film,	it	appears	to	have
been	relatively	popular:	the	secret	police	reported	excitement	when	it	was	first
released	in	Berlin	and	surrounding	districts	and	it	also	played	to	large	audiences
in	occupied	France.	When	a	British	prisoner-of-war	was	leafing	through	a
German	newspaper	in	January	1945,	he	was	so	amazed	to	find	a	version	of	the
story	on	the	front	page	that	he	translated	it	and	took	it	home	when	the	war	was
over.
It	is	instructive	to	compare	Waschnek’s	film	with	its	American	precursor	and
model,	
The	House	of	Rothschild
,	directed	by	Darryl	Zanuck	in	1934	and	starring
George	Arliss	as	both	Mayer	Amschel	and	Nathan.	In	the	earlier	film,	the
Rothschilds	are	portrayed	sympathetically:	their	rise	from	rags	to	riches	is	a
version	of	the	“American	dream”	(complete	with	a	wholesome	romance	between
a	Rothschild	daughter	and	the	dashing	young	British	officer	who	brings	the	news
of	victory	at	Waterloo),	while	the	obstacles	they	confront—the	sinister	Prussian
Minister	Baron	Ledrantz	(Boris	Karloff)	and	rioting	mobs	in	Frankfurt—allude
to	contemporary	developments	in	Germany.	Yet	even	the	American	version	of
the	Rothschild	story	
is	largely	myth,	much	of	which	could	be	construed	in	a	less
sympathetic	light.	Mayer	Amschel	may	be	a	lovable	old	man	with	a	twinkle	in
his	eye	and	matinée	idols	for	children;	but	he	still	has	a	plan	for	world
domination.	Indeed,	in	places	the	films	are	like	mirror	images	of	one	another.	In
Waschnek’s	version,	Nathan	draws	a	map	of	Europe	to	show	the	centres	of
Rothschild	power	and	a	family	tree	which,	when	its	branches	are	connected,
forms	a	Star	of	David;	the	flaming	star	is	then	superimposed	over	a	map	of
England	with	the	accompanying	title:	“As	this	film	was	being	completed,	the	last
members	of	the	Rothschild	family	are	leaving	Europe	as	refugees	and	escaping
to	their	allies	in	England.	The	fight	against	British	plutocracy	continues!”	The
Zanuck	film	uses	very	similar	imagery:	on	his	deathbed,	Mayer	Amschel	tells
his	five	sons	to	go	to	the	various	European	cities.	These	are	then	depicted	on	a
map,	and	a	Star	of	David	is	again	superimposed.	However,	the	concluding
sequence	of	the	film	emphasises	the	parallel	between	Nazi	anti-Jewish	policy
and	the	“Hep”	riots	against	the	Frankfurt	Jews	in	1818.	In	essence,	then,	the	two
films	tell	the	same	story,	albeit	with	the	moral	signs	pointing	in	opposite
directions.
This	Janus-faced	quality	to	the	cinematic	representations	of	the	Rothschilds’

--- Page 53 ---
early	history	is	symptomatic	of	a	more	general	ambiguity.	For	there	is	a	sense	in
which	all	the	various	Rothschild	legends	can	be	thought	of	as	a	single	myth—a
myth	of	immense	wealth;	of	meteoric	social	ascent;	of	limitless	political	and
diplomatic	power;	and	of	some	enigmatic	
ultima	ratio
,	connected	with	the
family’s	religion.	Usually,	the	myth	is	told	in	pejorative	terms:	the	wealth	is	ill-
gotten,	the	social	ascent	unsuccessful,	the	power	based	on	corruption	and	the
objective	sinister.	But	it	can	equally	well	be	told	in	the	Hollywood	style,	as	a	tale
of	economic	over-achievement,	social	success,	legitimate	power	and	moral	ends.
Other	subjects	exploited	by	the	Nazis	for	their	propaganda	have,	of	course,	since
become	taboo—and	in	some	countries	even	illegal.	But	the	ambivalent	quality	of
the	Rothschild	myth	seems	to	guarantee	its	constant	replication	and
modification.	This	is	perhaps	most	obvious	in	France.	Parts	of	the	special	edition
of	the	magazine	
Crapouillot
	published	in	1951	were	undoubtedly	anti-Semitic,
reproducing	the	stories	(and	cartoons)	from	the	nineteenth	century	radical	and
right-wing	literature;	but	other	“grandees”	included	in	the	magazine	were	not
Jewish,	and	the	tone	of	the	text	as	a	whole	was	relatively	temperate.	As	the	work
of	writers	like	Coston	and	Peyrefitte	shows,	it	was	possible	in	the	atmosphere	of
the	Fourth	Republic	to	repeat	more	or	less	verbatim	the	old	legends	about	the
“200	families	who	rule	France”	with	only	a	slight	modification	of	tone.
Typically,	when	the	former	de	Rothschild	Frères	director	Georges	Pompidou
became	Prime	Minister	in	April	1962	(and	later	President	in	1969),	
le	Canard
enchaîné
	commented	simply:	“RF	=	République	française	=	Rothschild	frères.”
However,	similar	echoes	of	the	Rothschild	myth	can	be	found	in	the	British	press
too.	Hostile	inferences	were	sometimes	drawn	in	the	1980s	from	the	fact	that	a
number	of	Conservative	politicians	had	worked	for	N.	M.	Rothschild	&	Sons
Limited	either	before	or	after	their	political	careers,	at	a	time	when	the	firm	was
handling	a	number	of	important	privatisations.	Indeed,	the	Labour	Shadow
Chancellor	Roy	Hattersley	went	so	far	as	to	allege	a	“correlation	between
contribution	to	the	Tory	party	and	the	receipt	of	business	from	Government”
following	the	first	Rothschild	privatisation—an	allegation	he	was	later	forced	to
withdraw.
Nowhere	is	the	continuing	vitality	of	the	Rothschild	myth	on	the	lunatic	fringe
more	apparent	than	in	the	writings	of	David	Icke,	the	erstwhile	environmentalist
turned	“New	Age”	evangelist.	According	to	Icke,	the	Rothschilds	are	members
of	the	“Global	Elite	or	Brotherhood”—also	referred	to	as	the	“All-Seeing	Eye
Cult”	and	the	“Prison	Warders”—which	secretly	rules	the	world.	Ever	since	the
time	of	Mayer	Amschel,	they	have	“manipulated	governments	and	worked

--- Page 54 ---
through	the	Brotherhood	network	to	create	wars	and	revolutions.”	They	are	the
hidden	power	which	“controls”	other	well-known	banks	such	as	Warburgs,
Schroders	and	Lazards,	as	well	as	being	“behind”	American	financiers	such	as	J.
P.	Morgan,	the	Rockefellers,	Kuhn,	Loeb	&	Co.	(an	“obvious	Rothschild	front”),
the	Speyers	and	the	Lehmans—not	to	mention	the	Bank	of	England	and	the
Federal	Reserve	system.	Through	this	network	of	global	power,	they	have	been
responsible	for,	among	other	things:	the	murder	of	Abraham	Lincoln;	the	Boer
War;	the	creation	of	Israel	(a	gambit	to	control	the	oil	of	the	Middle	East);	the
Russian	revolution	(“a	coup	on	Russia	by	the	United	States	financial	arm	of	the
Global	Elite	largely	controlled	by	the	Rothschilds”);	the	financing	of	Hitler;	and
even	the	floating	of	the	dollar	by	President	Nixon.	Today,	Icke	alleges,	they	and
their	associates	in	the	Conservative	party	and	the	press	are	plotting	to
monopolise	the	world’s	energy	supplies—hence	their	interest	in	electricity,	coal
and	gas	privatisation.
A	cursory	search	of	the	Internet	reveals	a	plethora	of	equally	bizarre
conspiracy	theories.	A	“Study	of	Corporate	and	Banking	Influence”	by	Don
Allen	purports	to	show	the	“linear	connection”	between	the	Rothschilds,	the
Bank	of	England	and	the	Federal	Reserve.	The	“A-albionic	Research	Weekly”
by	James	Daugherty	claims	to	have	identified	“The	‘World	Money	Cartel’	or
‘Empire	of	the	City	(of	London)’	operated	for	the	‘Crown’	by	the	‘legendary’
Merchant	Bankers	of	the	Bank	of	England,	including	the	Warburgs,	Rothschilds
[and]	Barings.”	“Scriptures	for	America”	gives	a	more	elaborate	version	of
Icke’s	claims	about	the	economic	rationale	behind	Rothschild	support	for
Zionism,	“the	single	purpose”	of	which	is	supposedly	“to	secure	permanent	and
secure	access	to	[the]	vast	natural	resources	in	the	Far	East.”	In	a	similar	vein,
Sherman	H.	Skolnick’s	“Conspiracy	Nation”	repeats	the	claim	that	the
Rothschilds	“arranged	the	murder	of	President	Lincoln,”	as	his	“post-war
policies	would	have	wrecked	[their]	commodity	speculations.”	Skolnick	also
repeats	the	allegation	that	“the	Rothschilds	.	.	.	financed	the	rise	of	Hitler	as	a
bulwark	against	the	Soviet	Union,”	adding	by	way	of	“explanation”	that	“the
Rothschilds	are	interwoven	with	the	Catholic	Church	and,	jointly	with	the
traditional	mafia	and	the	American	CIA,	interlocked	with	the	Vatican	Bank,
which	was	pro-Nazi.”
Such	surreal	libels	are	not	confined	to	the	Internet.	The	television	preacher
and	Republican	politician	Pat	Robertson’s	book	
The	New	World	Order
(published	in	1991)	states	that	the	Rothschilds	were	“polluted	by	the	occultism
of	.	.	.	Illuminated	Freemasonry”	and	that	“Paul	Warburg,	architect	of	the	Federal

--- Page 55 ---
Reserve	System,	was	a	Rothschild	agent.”	From	a	completely	different	political
milieu,	Khalid	Muhammad—a	former	assistant	to	Louis	Farrakhan,	the	leader	of
the	radical	African-American	organisation	Nation	of	Islam—has	repeated	the
suggestion	that	“the	Rothschilds	.	.	.	financed	Hitler”	and	“aided”	his	anti-
Semitic	policies;	as	well—needless	to	say—as	“gaining	control	of”	the	Bank	of
England	and	the	Federal	Reserve	system.	It	might	be	thought	that	a	serious
banking	history	should	scrupulously	avoid	reference	to	this	kind	of	nonsense.
Yet	it	is	impossible	to	appreciate	the	
need	for	a	scholarly	history	of	the	subject	if
one	blithely	pretends	such	myths	do	not	exist.
IV
P
art	of	the	purpose	of	this	book,	then,	is	to	supplant	Rothschild	mythology	with
historical	reality,	in	so	far	as	that	can	be	“reconstructed”	from	surviving
documentary	evidence.	It	might	be	wondered	why	this	has	not	been	done	before;
why	only	a	tiny	fraction	of	the	books	which	purport	to	be	about	the	Rothschilds
are	in	fact	based	on	serious	archival	scholarship.	Part	of	the	answer,	of	course,
lies	in	the	enduring	appeal	of	a	rich	and	successful	family	to	hack	writers,	who
are	always	able	to	turn	a	penny	by	rehashing	the	myths	and	anecdotes	already	in
print.	Another	reason	is	that,	until	recently,	it	was	far	from	easy	to	gain	access	to
the	relevant	documentary	material.	Tragically,	the	vast	archive	of	the	Frankfurt
house—which	also	included	all	that	had	been	kept	of	the	Naples	house’s	papers
—was	largely	destroyed	in	1912,	with	the	exception	of	a	very	few	early
documents	which	were	sent	to	Paris.
4
	Part	of	the	archive	of	the	Vienna	house
was	confiscated	by	the	Nazis	in	1938	and	passed	into	Soviet	hands	at	the	end	of
the	war	along	with	various	papers	belonging	to	members	of	the	French	family
which	were	seized	during	the	German	occupation.	This	material	lay	buried	in	the
Moscow	“trophy”	archive	of	the	KGB	throughout	the	Cold	War	and	became
available	to	outside	researchers	at	the	Centre	for	the	Preservation	of	Historical
Documents	only	in	1990.
5
	When	Count	Corti	wrote	his	two-volume	study	of	the
“Rise”	and	“Reign”	of	the	Rothschilds	in	1927-8,	he	had	to	rely	mainly	on	the
Austrian	state	archives	and	the	published	correspondence,	memoirs	and	diaries
of	nineteenth-century	politicians.	The	archive	of	the	London	house	was	not
generally	open	to	scholars	before	1978,	though	members	of	the	family	and
“insiders”	like	Lucien	Wolf	made	use	of	documents	there	to	produce	a	number	of

--- Page 56 ---
important	monographs.
On	the	other	hand,	the	archive	of	the	French	house—the	basis	of	Bertrand
Gille’s	monumental	two-volume	study	published	in	the	1960s—was	deposited	in
the	Archives	Nationales	following	the	nationalisation	of	Banque	Rothschild	in
1981.	Considering	the	wealth	of	material	which	has	been	available	in	both	Paris
and	London	since	the	family	began	to	relax	its	restrictions	on	access,	it	is
remarkable	how	little	serious	research	has	been	done.	A	mainly	social	and
political	history	of	the	English	family	and	a	handful	of	articles	and	monographs
on	quite	specialised	subjects	is	a	relatively	low	yield	for	such	important—
indeed,	in	many	ways	unique—documentary	collections.	Even	the	volume	of
essays	produced	to	coincide	with	the	successful	1994-5	exhibition	at	the
Frankfurt	Jewish	Museum	entitled	
The	Rothschilds:	A	European	Family
	contains
relatively	few	contributions	based	on	new	archival	research.	Pauline	Prevost-
Marcilhacy’s	volume	on	Rothschild	architecture	is	the	only	book	to	date	which
has	made	use	of	all	the	major	Rothschild	document	collections	in	London,	Paris
and	Moscow.
There	is,	however,	a	further	explanation	for	this	relative	lack	of	scholarship,
and	that	is	the	intractability	of	so	much	of	the	material.	There	is	a	vast	amount	of
it.	“We	Rothschilds	are	inveterate	scribblers,”	wrote	Charlotte	de	Rothschild	to
her	children	in	1874,	“and	cannot	live	without	letter	writing	and	letter
receiving.”	It	was	only	too	true.	The	most	important	letters	in	the	London
archive	are	the	so-called	“private	letters”	(the	XI/109	series)	between	the
partners	in	the	bank,	which	cover	the	years	from	1812	to	1898.	Altogether,	these
fill	135	boxes.	Of	these	letters,	I	have	referred	to	around	5,000	in	the	text.	(To
give	an	idea	of	the	relative	importance	of	this	series,	the	final	database	of	letters
which	I	and	my	researchers	wholly	or	partially	transcribed	from	all	archives
contains	around	13,000	entries.)	The	frequency	of	this	private	correspondence—
which	was	private	in	the	sense	that,	with	a	few	exceptions,	only	the	partners	and
the	scribes	they	occasionally	used	saw	it—varied	enormously,	depending	on	the
volume	of	business,	political	news,	the	number	of	partners	in	the	various	offices
and	the	time	of	year.	Sometimes	the	partners	in	Paris	might	send	out	only	two	or
three	letters	in	a	quiet	week;	but	at	peaks	of	activity,	three	partners	might	write
one	or	sometimes	two	letters	a	day.	To	give	a	single	example,	in	March	1848,	the
London	partners	received	at	least	sixty	important	private	letters	from	their
partners	on	the	continent.	These	letters	were	often	quite	lengthy,	especially	in	the
early	years	of	the	partnership,	when	Amschel	and	Salomon	routinely	sent	their
brothers	five	or	six	sides,	mingling	political	news,	financial	information,

--- Page 57 ---
business	enquiries	and	answers	with	family	gossip	and	personal	grumblings.
These	were,	it	might	be	said,	the	telephone	calls	of	the	nineteenth-century,	in	that
they	contain	the	kind	of	information	businessmen	today	rarely	commit	to	paper.
They	were	also,	it	should	be	stressed,	untypical	by	nineteenth	century	standards.
Firstly,	because	their	partners	were	not	so	geographically	dispersed,	few	if	any	of
the	Rothschilds’	rivals	corresponded	in	this	way	on	a	regular	basis.	It	is	unlikely
that	a	comparable	series	of	letters	exists	in	any	other	banking	archive.	Secondly,
because	the	Rothschilds	were	exceptionally	well	connected,	the	political
intelligence	their	letters	contain	was	usually	of	a	very	high	quality.	James	did	not
exaggerate	when	he	spoke	in	the	1840s	of	being	able	to	see	King	Louis	Philippe
“daily”:	at	times	of	political	crisis,	he	could	do	just	that.	His	letters	to	London—
the	series	which	I	have	used	most	fully—constitute	one	of	the	most	remarkable
sources	for	nineteenth-century	financial	and	diplomatic	history.
There	are	only	two	causes	for	regret.	There	is	a	substantial	and	unexplained
gap	in	the	XI/109	series	for	the	period	1854	to	1860,	and	after	1879	it	trails	off
(though	the	letters	from	Paris	in	the	series	XI/101	continue	up	until	1914).	More
seriously,	nearly	all	the	copies	of	the	outgoing	letters	
from
	the	London	partners
(in	so	far	as	these	were	made	at	all)	were	destroyed	at	the	orders	of	successive
senior	partners.	All	that	survive	are	eight	tantalising	boxes	covering	the	period
1906-14.	We	therefore	have	precious	few	letters	by	Nathan	compared	with	the
thousands	from	his	brothers	which	have	survived;	only	a	frustratingly	small
number	from	his	eldest	son	Lionel;	and	next	to	nothing	from	his	grandsons	for
the	period	before	1906.	It	should	also	be	said	that	relatively	few	non-business
letters	by	the	partners	were	preserved;	indeed,	the	first	Lord	Rothschild	insisted
that	all	his	private	correspondence	be	burnt	after	his	death	(though	I	have	been
able	to	find	a	number	of	letters	in	the	archives	of	politicians	to	whom	he	wrote).
If	at	times	the	history	of	N.	M.	Rothschild	&	Sons	seems	to	have	been	written
from	the	point	of	view	of	their	continental	relatives,	that	is	an	unavoidable
consequence	of	this	imbalance	in	the	sources.	We	are	fortunate	that	Nathan’s
sons	(especially	Nat)	spent	a	good	deal	of	time	on	the	continent	and	that	their
letters	“home”	to	their	parents	and	brothers	have	been	preserved;	but	these	are
no	substitute	for	the	letters	written	from	London.	By	comparison,	I	have	been
unable	to	do	more	than	take	occasional	samples	from	the	even	more	voluminous
general	and	private	correspondence	from	the	various	Rothschild	agents—
particularly	those	in	the	major	agencies	in	Madrid,	Brussels,	St	Petersburg,	New
York,	Mexico	and	San	Francisco.	There	is	an	equally	huge	amount	of	mostly
routine	business	letters	from	less	important	firms	who	merely	acted	as

--- Page 58 ---
“correspondents”	or	did	occasional	business	with	the	Rothschilds:	again,	I	have
had	time	only	to	dip	into	these	letters,	which	came	from	as	far	afield	as	Calcutta,
Shanghai,	Melbourne	and	Valparaiso.
A	further	difficulty—which	explains	why	the	XI/109	files	have	never	before
been	fully	utilised	by	historians—is	that,	up	until	the	late	1860s,	all	of	the	second
generation	and	a	number	of	key	figures	in	the	third	generation	of	partners	(as
well	as	a	few	of	the	firm’s	agents)	corresponded	with	one	another	primarily	in
Judendeutsch
:	German	written	in	Hebrew	characters.	This	was	partly	because	it
was	the	family’s	first	language.	But	it	was	also	partly	to	ensure	that	prying	eyes
would	not	be	able	to	read	the	firm’s	private	correspondence.	The	difficulty	which
even	Hebrew	readers	find	in	deciphering	the	relatively	archaic	script	used	by	the
brothers	has	deterred	previous	scholars,	who	have	been	content	to	rely	on	the
highly	selective	English	extracts	translated	somewhat	freely	by	a	group	of
refugees	from	Germany	employed	as	researchers	in	the	1950s	(the	so-called	“T”
files),	or	on	the	letters	written	by	Nathan’s	children	in	easily	legible	English.
However,	the	heroic	work	of	Mordechai	Zucker	in	translating	or	reading	aloud
the	original	letters	on	to	tape	has	removed	this	obstacle	for	me,	making	available
for	the	first	time	a	“virgin”	historical	source	of	the	very	first	importance.
The	great	benefit	is	that,	partly	because	their	letters	were	so	hard	for	outsiders
to	read,	the	Rothschilds	were	able	to	write	to	one	another	with	more	or	less
complete	candour.	As	a	result,	their	correspondence	has	a	uniquely	direct	and
intimate	quality.	The	partners	were	frank—sometimes	even	abusive—with	one
another,	and	made	no	secret	of	their	opinions	of	the	monarchs	and	ministers	they
had	to	deal	with,	which	were	rarely	flattering.	Their	tone	is	colloquial,
sometimes	crudely	so.	The	contrast	could	hardly	be	greater	with	the	formal,
functional	business	letters	sent	from	one	Rothschild	house	to	another,	or	the
much	more	carefully	crafted	letters	they	addressed	to	political	friends	and
business	associates	outside	the	closed	circle	of	the	partnership	and	family.	When
used	in	conjunction	with	the	other	archival	sources	listed	in	the	bibliography,	the
Rothschild	letters	reveal	a	reality	which	is	in	many	ways	more	fascinating	than
even	the	most	fantastic	myth.
V
Academic	historians	like	to	contribute	to	historiographical	debates.	The

--- Page 59 ---
Rothschilds	are	relevant	to	so	many	that	it	would	be	tedious	to	do	more	than
merely	list	them,	which	I	dutifully	do	now.	The	five	Rothschild	houses	constitute
an	early	version	of	what	later	became	known	as	the	“multinational:”	business
historians	may	find	it	illuminating	to	learn	more	about	the	way	in	which	the	firm
worked	as	an	international	private	partnership.	Economic	historians	have	for
many	years	sought	to	assess	the	contribution	of	banks	to	industrialisation;	there
is	ample	material	here	on	that	question,	especially	as	regards	the	role	of	the
Rothschilds	in	the	development	of	continental	railways.	The	history	of	the
Rothschilds	also	helps	to	illuminate	the	long-running	debate	about	the
differences	between	British,	French	and	German	banking,	for	the	obvious	reason
that	the	various	Rothschild	houses	worked	in	similar	though	not	identical	ways
in	each	country.	There	is	some	new	light	too	on	the	much-debated	question	of
European	capital	export:	those	still	concerned	with	the	Hobson/Lenin	paradigm
may	like	to	contrast	it	with	the	realities	presented	here.	I	would	like	to	think	that
the	book	will	also	contribute,	albeit	indirectly,	to	some	of	the	more	technically
sophisticated	debates	in	the	still-young	specialism	of	financial	history.	I	fear	this
is	not	a	“model”	history	of	a	bank.	I	am	conscious	that	I	have	not	written
anything	about	“asymmetrical	information,”	“credit	rationing”	and	“portfolio
management,”	but	I	hope	that	those	interested	in	such	things	will	not	be	wholly
disappointed	by	the	sections	of	the	book	which	concentrate	on	profits,	losses	and
balance	sheets.	If	nothing	else,	these	data	can	now	usefully	be	compared	with
those	in	other	published	bank	histories—a	task	I	have	been	able	only	to	begin
here.
Social	historians	will	find	this,	I	hope,	a	useful	contribution	not	only	to	the	old
debates	about	class,	but	also	to	more	voguish	controversies	about	family
structure	and	relations	between	the	sexes	within	the	wealthy	elite:	although	the
partners	in	the	bank	were	exclusively	male,	I	have	taken	care	not	to	neglect	their
mothers,	wives	and	daughters,	who	were	often	(as	Miriam	Rothschild	recently
pointed	out)	as	capable	as	the	Rothschild	men,	if	not	more	so.
Specialists	in	Jewish	history	may	be	suspicious	of	yet	another	book	written
about	a	family	which	has	always	loomed	uncomfortably	large	in	their	field;	I	can
only	hope	that	as	an	atheist	from	a	Calvinist	background	I	have	not
misunderstood	too	much	the	exceedingly	complicated	relationship	between	the
“exceptional	family”	and	their	“co-religionists.”	I	do	not	think	I	am	guilty	of
overestimating	the	very	important	role	the	Rothschilds	have	played	in	modern
Jewish	history.	Though	it	is	not	my	forte,	I	have	endeavoured	to	satisfy	cultural
historians	by	paying	due	attention	to	the	contemporary	allusions	to	the

--- Page 60 ---
Rothschilds	in	high	and	low	literature,	and	by	doing	my	best	to	summarise	the
family’s	contribution	as	art	collectors	and	as	patrons	of	some	of	the	nineteenth
century’s	most	distinguished	architects,	writers	and	composers.	The	book	should
also	be	of	use	to	political	historians,	especially	those	with	an	interest	in	France,
Britain	and	Germany.	I	am	conscious	that	I	have	probably	misinterpreted	some
of	the	more	obscure	allusions	to	the	high	politics	of	nineteenth-century	France	in
the	letters	of	James	and	his	nephews;	but	I	look	to	French	historians	to	correct
me	by	doing	their	own	research	on	the	relevant	correspondence.	Perhaps,	on
reflection,	the	book	will	give	most	satisfaction	to	those	unfashionable	scholars
who	continue	to	be	interested	in	diplomatic	history.	There	is	more	here	than	I
had	originally	expected	to	write	about	Belgian	neutrality,	Schleswig-Holstein,
the	Eastern	Question	and	the	origins	of	the	various	wars	which	were	fought	(or
averted)	in	the	century	between	Waterloo	and	the	Marne.	But	after	finance—or
rather	inseparable	from	it—diplomacy	was	what	the	Rothschilds	themselves
regarded	as	important.
To	all	these	different	readerships,	I	offer	apologies	for	sins	of	omission:
because	the	book	was	supposed	to	be	written	in	three	years	(it	took	nearer	five)
there	are	letters	which	I	did	not	read,	books	I	merely	skimmed,	archives	I	did	not
visit.	In	deciding	what	not	to	do,	I	have	tried	to	give	priority	to	documents
hitherto	unknown	or	only	partially	known.	Where	an	archive	has	apparently	been
well	sifted	by	a	previous	historian,	I	have	elected	not	to	re-sift,	at	the	risk	of
perpetuating	error.	This	volume	should	thus	be	regarded	as	something	of	a
research	agenda:	the	London	archive	in	particular	cries	out	for	further
investigation,	and	I	hope	to	see	a	steady	stream	of	
monographs	in	the	coming
years,	correcting	my	broad-brush	interpretations	and	doubtless	many	points	of
detail.
The	fact	that	a	book	can	at	least	pretend	to	be	relevant	to	so	many	different
spe	cialisms	should	in	itself	reassure	the	non-academic	reader,	who	I	hope	will
forgive	those	passages	of	the	book	which	betray	the	author’s	profession,	just	as
those	readers	who	are	themselves	bankers	or	Jews	will	forgive	the	errors	and
false	notes	which	doubtless	remain.	If	this	book	does	something	to	help
reintegrate	economic,	social,	cultural,	political	and	diplomatic	history,	and	in	the
process	to	make	both	the	nineteenth	century	world	and	the	“exceptional	family”
more	intelligible,	it	will	have	got	the	author	from	Point	A,	where	he	began,	to
Point	B,	where	he	wished	to	end	up.

--- Page 61 ---
I
Father	and	Sons

--- Page 62 ---
ONE
“Our	Blessed	Father”:	Origins
Yes,	my	dear	fellow,	it	all	amounts	to	this:	in	order	to	do	something	you	must	be
something.	We	think	Dante	great,	but	he	had	a	civilisation	of	centuries	behind	him;
the	House	of	Rothschild	is	rich	but	it	has	required	more	than	one	generation	to
attain	such	wealth.	Such	things	all	lie	deeper	than	one	thinks.
—GOETHE,	OCTOBER	1828
	
	
	
A	traveller	arriving	in	eighteenth-century	Frankfurt,	as	he	passed	across	the	main
Sachsenhäuser	Bridge	leading	to	the	Fahrtor	Gate,	could	hardly	miss	the
Judensau
	—the	Jews’	Sow	(see	illustration	1.i).	An	obscene	graffito	on	the	wall,
it	depicted	a	group	of	Jews	abasing	themselves	before—or	rather	beneath	and
behind—a	fierce	sow.	While	one	of	them	suckled	at	her	teats,	another	(in
rabbinical	garb)	held	up	her	tail	for	the	third	(also	a	rabbi)	to	drink	her
excrement.	The	“Jews’	devil”	watched	approvingly.	If	the	traveller	looked	up,	he
could	also	see	a	second	and	still	more	repellent	image:	that	of	a	dead	baby,	its
outstretched	body	punctured	by	countless	small	knife	wounds	and	beneath	it
nine	daggers.	“On	Maundy	Thursday	in	the	year	1475,”	read	a	caption,	“the	little
child	Simeon,	aged	2,	was	killed	by	the	Jews”—an	allusion	to	the	case	of	Simon
of	Trent,	who	had	allegedly	been	a	victim	of	“ritual	murder,”	the	fictional
practice	whereby	Jews	murdered	Gentile	children	in	order	to	put	their	blood	in
unleavened	bread.
Such	a	graphic	expression	of	anti-Jewish	sentiment	was	by	no	means	unique:
the	image	of	Jews	worshipping	a	pig	can	be	found	in	numerous	woodcut	and
printed	versions	dating	as	far	back	as	the	fourteenth	century,	while	the	myth	of
ritual	murder	gained	currency	in	Germany	in	the	fifteenth.	What	made	the
Frankfurt	pictures	remarkable—at	least	in	the	eyes	of	the	city’s	most	celebrated

--- Page 63 ---
son,	Johann	Wolfgang	Goethe—was	that	they	were	“not	the	product	of	private
hostility,	but	erected	as	a	public	monument.”	The	
Judensau
	and	the	murdered
child	were	officially	sanctioned	symbols	of	a	long-standing	tradition	of	hostility
to	an	enemy	within	the	free	imperial	town.
1
The	first	records	of	a	Jewish	community	in	Frankfurt	date	back	to	the	middle
of	the	twelfth	century,	when	it	numbered	between	one	and	two	hundred.	Its
history	was	one	of	periodic	persecution	by	the	Gentile	populace.	In	1241,	more
than	three	
quarters	of	the	Frankfurt	Jews	were	massacred	in	the	so-called	“Battle
of	the	Jews”	(
Judenschlacht
).	The	community	re-established	itself	over	the
subsequent	decades,	but	just	over	a	century	later,	in	1349,	there	was	a	second
pogrom.	In	both	cases,	popular	millenarianism	played	a	part:	in	the	first	“battle,”
fears	that	the	Jews	were	in	league	with	the	Mongol	horde;	in	the	second,	fears
instigated	by	members	of	a	fla	gellant	order	that	the	Jews	would	attract	the
plague	to	the	town.
1.i:	Anonymous	early-eighteenth-century	print	of	Simon	of	Trent	and	the
Judensau.

--- Page 64 ---
There	were,	however,	worldly	reasons	why	both	the	Holy	Roman	Emperor—
who	declared	the	Jews	“servi	nostri	et	servi	camerae	nostri”	in	1236—and	the
municipal	authorities	were	inclined	to	encourage	Jewish	settlement.	The	Jews
were	a	source	of	tax	revenue	and	credit	(given	their	exemption	from	the	laws
prohibiting	usury)	who	could	be	offered	“protection”	and	restricted	privileges	in
return	for	hard	cash.	But	protection	and	restriction	went	hand	in	hand.	In	1458,
at	the	order	of	the	Emperor	Frederick	III,	the	Jews	were	confined	to	a	ghetto
(from	the	Italian	
borghetto
	
or	suburb):	a	single,	narrow	street	on	the	north-
eastern	edge	of	the	town	at	both	ends	of	which	gates	were	erected.	To	the	110
Jews	living	in	the	town,	this	capitivity	in	what	became	known	as	the	Judengasse
(Jews’	Lane)	suggested	a	“New	Egypt.”	On	the	other	hand,	the	persistent	risk	of
popular	violence	could	give	the	ghetto	the	character	of	a	sanctuary.	Allegations
of	ritual	murder	in	1504	and	an	attempt	to	declare	the	Jews	heretics	five	years
later	provided	a	reminder	of	the	vulnerability	of	the	community’s	position,	as	did
the	conversion	of	the	majority	of	the	town’s	population	to	Lutheranism	in	1537,
given	the	avowed	hostility	of	Luther	towards	the	Jews.	The	Judengasse	provided
sanctuary	of	sorts	in	a	perilous	world;	and	between	1542	and	1610	its	population
grew	from	around	400	to	1,380	(an	increase	which	was	paralleled	by	Huguenot
migration	to	Frankfurt	from	the	Netherlands).	The	economic	and	social	tensions
which	coincided	with—or	were	caused	by—these	influxes	culminated	in	yet
another	outbreak	of	popular	violence	against	the	Jewish	community:	the
“Fettmilch	riots,”	named	after	their	shopkeeper	leader	Vincenz	Fettmilch.
However,	wholesale	looting	of	the	Judengasse	was	this	time	not	accompanied	by
mass	murder	(the	Jews	were	expelled	from	the	town)	and,	after	a	brief	period	of
popular	rule,	imperial	troops	quashed	the	insurrection.	Fettmilch	and	the	other
leaders	of	the	revolt	were	hanged	and	the	Jews	marched	back	into	the	ghetto,
their	status	as	protégés	of	the	Emperor	reaffirmed.
In	practice,	as	before,	“protection”	meant	extraordinarily	tight	regulation,	the
details	of	which	were	set	out	by	the	Council	in	the	Stättigkeit,	a	statute	which
was	read	out	each	year	in	the	main	synagogue.	Under	its	terms,	which	remained
in	force	until	the	very	end	of	the	eighteenth	century,	the	Jewish	population	was
restricted	to	just	500	families;	the	number	of	weddings	was	rationed	to	just
twelve	a	year	and	the	age	of	marriage	fixed	at	twenty-five.	No	more	than	two
Jews	from	outside	were	allowed	to	settle	in	the	ghetto	each	year.	Jews	were
prohibited	from	farming,	or	from	dealing	in	weapons,	spices,	wine	and	grain.
They	were	forbidden	to	live	outside	the	Judengasse	and,	until	1726,	were	obliged
to	wear	distinctive	insignia	(two	concentric	yellow	rings	for	men	and	a	striped

--- Page 65 ---
veil	for	women)	at	all	times.	They	were	confined	to	the	ghetto	every	night,	on
Sundays	and	during	Christian	festivals;	at	other	times,	they	were	forbidden	to
walk	in	the	town	more	than	two	abreast.	They	were	barred	from	entering	parks,
inns,	coffee	houses	and	the	promenades	around	the	town’s	picturesque	walls;
they	were	not	even	allowed	near	the	town’s	ancient	cathedral;	and	had	to	enter
the	town	hall	by	a	back	door.	They	were	permitted	to	visit	the	town	market,	but
only	during	set	hours,	and	were	forbidden	to	touch	vegetables	and	fruit	there.	If
he	appeared	in	court,	a	Jew	had	to	swear	a	special	oath	which	reminded	all
present	of	“the	penalties	and	maledictions	which	God	imposed	on	the	cursed
Jews.”	If	he	heard	the	words	“Jud,	mach	mores!”	(“Jew,	do	your	duty!”)	in	the
street,	he	was	obliged—even	if	they	were	uttered	by	a	mere	boy—to	doff	his	hat
and	step	to	one	side.	And	if	he	had	occasion	to	go	outside	Frankfurt—for	which
a	special	pass	was	required—he	paid	double	the	amount	of	toll	paid	by	a	Gentile
when	entering	the	town.	In	return	for	this	supposed	“protection,”	every	Jew	also
paid	a	poll	(or	“body”)	tax.
All	this	meant	that	the	Frankfurt	Jews	spent	most	of	their	lives	within	the	high
walls	and	gates	of	the	Judengasse.	Today	virtually	nothing	remains	of	this
prison-cum-street.	All	but	a	couple	of	houses	were	demolished	by	the	Frankfurt
authorities	in	the	course	of	the	nineteenth	century,	and	what	little	remained	was
flattened	by	American	bombers	in	May	1944.	However,	the	foundations	of	a	part
of	the	old	street	have	recently	been	excavated,	and	these	give	at	least	a	rough
idea	of	the	inordinately	cramped	conditions	of	life	in	the	ghetto.	Curving	from
the	Börnheimer	Gate	in	the	north	towards	the	Jewish	cemetery	in	the	south,	it
was	just	a	quarter	of	a	mile	long	and	no	more	than	twelve	feet	wide—in	places
less	than	ten.	Having	originally	been	designated	a	ghetto	at	a	time	when	the
Jewish	population	was	little	more	than	a	hundred,	the	lane	was	horribly
overcrowded:	by	1711	there	were	no	fewer	
than	3,024	people	living	there.
Accommodating	them	all	in	such	a	small	area	required	a	high	degree	of
architectural	ingenuity:	houses	were	just	eight	feet	wide	and	had	up	to	four
storeys,	and	behind	each	row	an	additional	row	was	constructed.	Fire	was	an
inevitable	hazard—indeed,	all	or	part	of	the	Judengasse	was	destroyed	by	major
conflagrations	in	1711,	1721	and	1774.	This	meant	that	life	there	was	both	dear
and	cheap:	dear	because	the	demand	for	housing	far	outstripped	the	supply,	so
that	a	four-room	house	in	the	north	of	the	Judengasse	cost	as	much	as	Goethe’s
father	paid	for	his	twenty-room	mansion	in	the	Grosse	Hirschgraben;	cheap
because	lack	of	sanitation,	light	and	fresh	air	reduced	life	expectancy.	In	the
1780s	it	was	estimated	that	average	mortality	among	Jews	was	58	per	cent

--- Page 66 ---
higher	than	among	Gentiles.	A	traveller	in	1795	observed	how	“most	of	the
people	among	the	Frankfurt	Jews,	even	those	who	are	in	the	blooming	years	of
their	life,	look	like	the	walking	dead	.	.	.	Their	deathly	pale	appearance	sets	them
apart	from	all	the	other	inhabitants	in	the	most	depressing	way.”	Later,	after	the
walls	around	it	had	been	partly	demolished,	the	Judengasse	was	to	some	extent
romanticised	by	artists	like	Anton	Burger;	indeed,	it	became	something	of	a
Victorian	tourist	attraction	(Charles	Greville	and	George	Eliot	were	among	the
English	visitors).	At	the	time,	it	struck	the	young	Goethe	as	a	hellish	slum:
The	lack	of	space,	the	dirt,	the	throng	of	people,	the	disagreeable	accents	of	the
voice—altogether,	it	made	the	most	unpleasant	impression,	even	upon	the
passer-by	who	merely	looked	through	the	gate.	It	was	a	long	time	before	I	dared
to	go	in	there	alone,	and	I	did	not	return	there	readily	when	once	I	had	escaped
from	that	multitide	of	people,	all	of	them	with	something	to	hawk,	all
indefatigably	buying	or	selling.
One	who	knew	it	more	intimately	was	the	poet	Ludwig	Börne,	who	(as	Juda
Löw	Baruch)	grew	up	there	in	the	1780s	and	1790s.	Looking	back	in	anger
rather	than	nostalgia,	he	remembered	a
long	dark	prison,	into	which	the	highly	celebrated	light	of	the	eighteenth	century
has	not	yet	been	able	to	penetrate	.	.	.	Stretching	ahead	of	us	lay	an
immeasurably	long	street,	near	us	just	enough	room	to	reassure	us	that	we	could
turn	around	as	soon	as	the	wish	overcame	us.	Over	us	is	no	longer	sky,	which	the
sun	needs	in	order	to	expand	in	his	breadth;	one	doesn’t	see	sky,	one	sees	only
sunlight.	An	evil	smell	rises	everywhere	around	us,	and	the	cloth	that	is
supposed	to	shield	us	from	infection	serves	also	to	catch	the	tears	of	compassion
or	to	hide	the	smile	of	malice	from	the	gaze	of	the	watching	Jews.	Tramping
laboriously	through	the	filth	slows	our	pace	down	enough	to	permit	us	the
leisure	for	observation.	We	set	our	feet	down	skittishly	and	carefully	so	that	we
don’t	step	on	any	children.	These	swim	about	in	the	gutter,	creep	about	in	the
filth	innumerable	as	vermin	hatched	by	the	sun	from	the	dungheap.	Who	would
not	indulge	these	little	boys	in	their	small	desires?	.	.	.	If	one	were	to	consider
play	in	childhood	as	the	model	for	the	reality	of	life,	then	the	cradle	of	these
children	must	be	the	grave	of	every	encouragement,	every	exuberance,	every
friendship,	every	joy	in	life.	Are	you	afraid	that	these	towering	houses	will
collapse	over	us?	O	fear	nothing!	They	are	thoroughly	reinforced,	the	cages	of
clipped	birds,	resting	on	the	cornerstone	of	eternal	ill-will,	well	walled	up	by	the
industrious	hands	of	greed,	and	mortared	with	the	sweat	of	tortured	slaves.	Do

--- Page 67 ---
not	hesitate.	They	stand	firm	and	will	never	fall.
As	Börne	commented,	even	at	a	time	of	supposed	“enlightenment,”	when
other	German	cities	were	relaxing	the	restrictions	imposed	on	Jews,	Frankfurt
held	out,	refusing	to	implement	the	Emperor	Joseph	II’s	Edict	of	Toleration
(1782)	and	confiscating	copies	of	Ephraim	Lessing’s	philo-Semitic	play	
Nathan
the	Wise
.	When	the	Jewish	community	petitioned	in	1769	and	again	in	1784	to
be	allowed	to	leave	the	ghetto	on	Sundays,	the	request	was	rejected	as	an	attempt
“to	put	themselves	on	an	equal	footing	with	the	Christian	residents.”
2
	As	in	the
past,	this	policy	was	to	some	extent	forced	upon	the	Council	by	the	majority	of
the	Gentile	townspeople.	Typically,	when	a	Jewish	mathematics	teacher	was
granted	permission	to	live	and	teach	outside	the	ghetto	in	1788,	there	was	such	a
popular	outcry	that	the	licence	had	to	be	revoked;	and	a	similar	request	by	a
Jewish	doctor	in	1795	was	turned	down	flat.	For	much	the	same	reason—as	a
letter	of	complaint	signed	by	seven	leading	Jewish	merchants	makes	clear—the
rules	governing	travel	outside	the	Judengasse	on	holidays	and	Sundays	were
made	more	rather	than	less	restrictive	in	1787,	with	the	introduction	of	a
complicated	system	of	identity	cards:
As	a	human	being,	every	Jew	has	the	same	rights	as	any	other	and	a	just	claim
for	protection	by	his	sovereign.	Unfortunately,	the	lower	classes	are	still	so
bound	to	the	prejudices	of	their	fathers	as	to	doubt	that	a	Jew	is	a	human	being
like	themselves.	They	mistreat	[the	Jews]	in	all	sorts	of	ways	and	many	an	old
man	seems	pleased	when	his	son	is	mistreating	a	Jew.	Even	soldiers	indulge	in
this	punishable	tyranny.	Would	they	not	take	[the	new	system]	as	an	invitation
for	countless	acts	of	harassment?	They	would	use	the	smallest	difference	in
clothing,	hair,	beards	and	the	like	as	an	excuse	to	perform	the	most	stringent
examinations	at	the	town	gate.	The	slightest	deviation	[would]	enable	them	to
arrest	the	Jew	and	march	him	off	to	the	main	guard	house	like	a	common	thief.
There	was	more	to	this	persistent	and	systematic	discrimination	than	mere
ancestral	prejudice,	however.	An	important	factor	was	that	the	Gentile	business
community	genuinely	feared	the	economic	challenge	which	they	believed	would
be	posed	by	an	emancipated	Jewish	population.	The	fact	that	a	slum	like	the
Judengasse	could	produce	mathematics	teachers	and	doctors	in	itself	tells	us
something	important	about	its	culture:	it	was	not	as	closed	as	it	seemed.	As
Goethe	himself	discovered,	when	he	plucked	up	the	courage	to	enter	the	ghetto,
the	Jews	were	“human	beings	after	all,	industrious	and	obliging,	and	one	could
not	help	but	admire	even	the	obstinacy	with	which	they	adhered	to	their

--- Page 68 ---
traditional	ways.”	Despite—perhaps	partly	because	of—the	grim	conditions	in
which	they	lived,	the	Frankfurt	Jews	were	anything	but	an	underclass	in	cultural
terms.
Of	course,	the	culture	of	the	Judengasse	was	an	unfamiliar	one	to	a	Gentile
like	Goethe.	It	was	an	intensely	religious	culture,	with	the	rhythm	of	life	still
dictated	by	the	religious	laws	of	the	
Halakha
.	Every	morning	and	evening,	men
were	summoned	to	worship	at	synagogue	by	the	
Schul-Klopper
	knocking	on
their	doors	with	a	hammer.	The	Sabbath	was,	as	an	English	visitor	recalled,	“in
the	picturesque	phrase	of	their	prayer-book,	‘a	bride,’	and	her	welcome,	week	by
week,	was	of	a	right	bridal	sort.	White	cloths	were	spread	and	lamps	lit	in	her
honour.	The	shabbiest	
dwellings	put	on	something	of	a	festive	air.”	Education	at
the	lane’s	three	primary	schools	(
heder
)	and	the	rabbinical	college	(
yeshivah
)
was,	by	the	standards	of	the	time,	conservative,	with	children	learning	to	read	the
Torah,	the	foundation	of	Mosaic	teaching	law,	then	moving	on	to	Rashi’s
commentaries	and	finally	the	Talmud,	the	compilation	of	rabbinical
commentaries	and	debates	on	rules	of	observance.	The	community	had	its	own
fire	brigade	and	hospitals,	its	own	cemetery	and	its	own	voluntary	associations
to	provide	for	the	poor.
Yet,	despite	the	high	walls	which	surrounded	it,	and	despite	the	relatively
limited	impact	of	the	Jewish	Enlightenment	on	the	community	(as	compared
with	that	of	Berlin),	the	culture	of	the	Judengasse	was	far	from	insular.	Although
Gentiles	sometimes	sneered	at	their	manner	of	speech,	Heinrich	Heine	later
insisted	that	the	Frankfurt	Jews	spoke	“nothing	but	the	proper	language	of
Frankfurt	[which	is]	spoken	with	equal	excellence	by	the	circumcised	as	well	as
by	the	non-circumcised	population.”	This	was	a	slight,	though	pardonable,
exaggeration.	Those	Jews	who	did	manage	to	secure	for	themselves	a	secular	as
well	as	a	religious	education—like	the	doctor	mentioned	above—would	have
spoken,	read	and	written	
Hochdeutsch
.	The	surviving	letters	of	Mayer
3
	Amschel
Rothschild,	however,	confirm	that	his	was	a	rough	and	often	ungrammatical
German,	with	an	admixture	of	Hebrew;	and	when	he	wrote	to	his	sons	he	used
Hebrew	characters,	as	did	they	when	they	wrote	to	one	another.	Nevertheless,
the	
Judendeutsch
	of	the	Judengasse	was	not	the	Yiddish	of	the	Polish	and
Russian	stetl;	and	in	all	probability	many	Gentile	merchants	in	Frankfurt	wrote
ungrammatical	letters	too.	When	Frankfurt	Jews	left	the	Judengasse	to	do
business—the	avenue	of	activity	most	accessible	to	them—there	was	no
insuperable	language	barrier	between	them	and	the	Gentile	merchants	they
encountered.

--- Page 69 ---
More	than	most	German	towns	in	the	eighteenth	century,	Frankfurt	was	a
businessman’s	town.	At	the	junction	of	several	major	trade	routes	linking	the
towns	of	South	Germany	(Strasbourg,	Ulm,	Augsburg	and	Nuremberg)	to	the
Hanseatic	ports	of	the	North	(Hamburg,	Bremen	and	Lübeck),	and	linking
Germany	as	a	whole	to	the	economies	of	the	Atlantic	seaboard,	the	Baltic	and
the	Near	East,	its	prosperity	was	bound	up	with	the	two	annual	fairs	in	the
autumn	and	the	spring	which	had	been	held	in	the	town	since	the	Middle	Ages.
And	because	of	the	enormous	variety	of	coinage	circulating	in	Europe	up	until
the	late	nineteenth	century,	the	town’s	commerce	necessarily	went	hand	in	hand
with	banking:	in	particular,	money-changing	and	bill-broking	(buying	and	selling
the	IOUs	generated	by	more	complex	transactions).	In	addition—and	in	some
ways	more	importantly—Frankfurt	acted	as	a	financial	centre	for	the	princes,
archdukes	and	electors	who	governed	the	numerous	petty	territories	of	the
region.	The	revenues	from	their	lands	and	subjects	(rents,	taxes	and	so	on)	and
the	expenditures	of	their	courts	(on	grand	residences,	gardens	and
entertainments)	made	these	rulers	the	biggest	customers	of	the	pre-industrial
German	economy,	even	if	most	of	them	were	considerably	less	well	off	than
their	counterparts	in	the	English	aristocracy.	In	particular,	the	fact	that	the
majority	generally	spent	more	than	they	earned	created	lucrative	if	sometimes
risky	opportunities	for	German	bankers.
Perhaps	the	most	successful	firm	in	this	field	prior	to	1800	was	that	of	Simon
Moritz	and	Johann	Philipp	Bethmann,	who	imported	from	Amsterdam	to
Germany	the	system	of	“sub-bonds”	(
Partialobligationen
)	whereby	a	large	loan
could	be	subdivided	into	more	manageable	portions	and	sold	on	to	a	wide
clientele	of	investors.	A	
typical	transaction	was	the	Bethmann	Brothers’	loan	to
the	Holy	Roman	Emperor	of	20,000	gulden	(around	£2,000)	in	1778,	which	they
sold	on	to	investors	in	the	form	of	twenty	1,000-gulden	bonds,	handing	over	the
cash	thus	raised—minus	their	substantial	commission—to	the	imperial	Treasury
in	Vienna,	and	subsequently	ensuring	the	prompt	payment	of	interest	from
Vienna	to	the	bondholders.	Between	1754	and	1778	the	Bethmanns	floated	loans
totalling	nearly	2	million	gulden,	and	no	fewer	than	fifty-four	separate	loans
totalling	nearly	30	million	gulden	in	the	following	five	years.	Other	Frankfurt
bankers	became	involved	in	the	same	kind	of	business,	notably	Jakob	Friedrich
Gontard.
Neither	Bethmann	nor	Gontard	was	Jewish.	Yet	there	is	no	question	that,	by
the	later	eighteenth	century,	it	was	Jews	who	had	come	to	be	seen	as	the	most
enterprising	operators	when	it	came	to	money-changing	and	all	kinds	of	lending.

--- Page 70 ---
After	more	than	a	century	of	scholarly	reflection	on	the	subject,	it	is	still	hard	to
say	quite	why	this	was.	Any	advantage	Jews	enjoyed	over	Gentile	financiers	can
have	been	only	an	indirect	result	of	their	system	of	education:	Mayer	Amschel
Rothschild	once	recalled	that	“in	my	youth	I	was	.	.	.	a	very	active	merchant,	but
I	was	disorganised,	because	I	had	been	a	student	[of	the	Talmud]	and	learnt
nothing	[about	business].”	Probably	membership	of	a	tightly	knit	“outsider”
group	helped	when	it	came	to	constructing	credit	networks.	And	perhaps	there
was	a	kind	of	business	ethic	derived	from	Judaism.	But	these	points	can	be	made
with	equal	force	about	other	religious	minorities,	as	they	were	by	Max	Weber,
who	unconvincingly	contrasted	“the	Protestant	ethic”	with	the	Jewish	ethos	of
“politically	and	speculatively	oriented	.	.	.	pariah	capitalism.”	The	least
unsatisfactory	answer	is	that,	at	a	time	when	most	fields	of	economic	activity
were	closed	to	them,	Jews	had	little	alternative	but	to	concentrate	on	commerce
and	finance.	At	the	same	time,	their	Gentile	rivals	in	these	fields	probably	tended
to	exaggerate	the	extent	of	the	“Jewish	threat”	to	their	business.	The	non-Jewish
bankers	of	Frankfurt	were	complaining	as	early	as	1685	that	“the	Jews	had	torn
the	bills	trade	from	their	hands”—a	claim	which	led	to	a	ban	on	Jews	entering
the	stock	exchange.	Twelve	years	later	the	Council	was	trying,	not	for	the	last
time,	to	prevent	Jews	from	renting	warehouses	in	the	Fahrgasse,	the	town’s	main
street.
Perhaps	the	most	notorious	conflict	of	this	sort	centred	around	the	role	of
Joseph	Süss-Oppenheimer,	who	rose	from	being	
Hoffaktor
	(court	agent)	to	Duke
Karl	Alexander	of	Württemberg	to	the	much	more	political	posts	of	privy
councillor	and,	in	1733,	envoy	in	Frankfurt,	where	his	privileged	position
allowed	him	to	live	outside	the	Judengasse	in	the	comfort	of	the	Golden	Swan
Inn.	Four	years	later	Oppenheimer	was	executed,	having	been	found	guilty	of
wielding	excessive	political	power	and	undermining	the	position	of	the
Württemberg	estates	(
Stände
).	Oppenheimer—the	
Jud	Süss
	of	later	anti-Semitic
legend—was	only	the	most	notorious	of	the	Jewish	court	agents,	however.	By
the	mid-eighteenth	century	Frankfurt	Jews	were	acting	as	agents	for	the
Palatinate,	the	Electorate	of	Mainz,	the	Grand	Duchy	of	Hesse-Darmstadt,	the
Kingdom	of	Prussia,	the	imperial	court	in	Vienna,	as	well	as	Hesse-Kassel	and
Saxe-Weimar.	Löw	Beer	Isaak,	for	example,	was	court	agent	to	the	Prince	of
Nassau-Saarbrücken	in	1755,	while	David	Meyer	Kupl	challenged	the
dominance	of	the	Kann	family	when	he	became	imperial	court	agent	at	around
the	same	time.	Such	men	formed	a	rich	and	privileged	elite	within	the
Judengasse.

--- Page 71 ---
Mayer	Amschel
It	was	into	this	partly,	but	not	wholly,	segregated	world	that	Mayer	Amschel
Rothschild	was	born	in	either	1743	or	1744.	About	his	parents,	grandparents	and
more	remote	ancestors	we	know	little.	Benjamin	Franklin	once	observed	that	in
life	only	death	and	taxes	are	inevitable;	they	are	also	virtually	the	only	things
about	which	records	survive	for	the	earliest	Rothschilds.	It	is	worth	noting	at
once	that	the	family	might	never	have	been	called	“Rothschild”—literally	“red
shield”—at	all.	We	know	that	Isak,	son	of	Elchanan,	built	a	house	in	the	1560s
known	as	“zum	roten	Schild”	(“the	red	shield”),	presumably	after	some	kind	of
shield	of	the	sort	often	hung	at	the	front	of	houses.	It	was	common	enough	for
residents	of	the	Judengasse	to	become	known	by	their	addresses.	However,
Isak’s	grandson	Naftali	Herz	(who	died	in	1685)	left	the	house	with	the	red
shield	and	moved	to	another	house,	“zur	Hinterpfann”	(“the	warming	pan”).	The
Rothschilds	could	thus	conceivably	have	become	known	as	the	“Hinterpfanns.”
As	it	was,	although	Naftali	Herz’s	son,	grandson	and	great-grandson	continued
to	use	the	name	“Rothschild,”	they	also	used	the	name	“Bauer.”	It	was	probably
only	in	the	next	generation—Mayer	Amschel’s—that	the	name	Rothschild	stuck
firmly	as	a	surname,	though	even	he	might	possibly	have	changed	it	again	when
he	moved	to	another	house	known	as	“zum	grünen	Schild”	(“the	green	shield”).
The	most	we	can	say	about	the	early	Rothschilds	is	that	they	were	pious	and
relatively	successful	small	businessmen	dealing	in,	among	other	things,	cloth.
Five	years	before	his	death	in	1585,	Isak	zum	roten	Schild	had	a	taxable	income
of	2,700	gulden,	and	when	he	died	he	was	remembered	on	his	gravestone	for	his
“virtue,”	“righteousness”	and	“honesty.”	A	century	later	his	great-grandson
Kalman,	a	money-changer	who	also	dealt	in	wool	and	silk,	had	a	taxable	income
more	than	twice	as	large;	and	it	seems	that	his	son—Mayer	Amschel’s
grandfather	Moses—successfully	developed	his	father’s	business,	continuing	the
process	of	steady	social	ascent	by	marrying,	successively,	the	daughters	of	a	tax
collector	and	of	a	doctor.	Unfortunately,	we	know	next	to	nothing	about	the
economic	achievements	of	Mayer	Amschel’s	father,	Amschel	Moses—though
the	fact	that	the	family	continued	to	live	in	the	modest	house	at	the	Hinterpfann,
with	its	ground-floor	office,	its	first-floor	kitchen	and	cramped	bedrooms	above,
suggests	at	best	consolidation,	at	worst	stagnation.	To	judge	by	the	lengthy	and
fulsome	praise	on	his	gravestone	inscription,	the	family	had	done	no	more	than
attain	solid	respectability	within	the	ghetto	by	the	time	he	died.
Amschel	Moses	was	evidently	a	studious	man—he	was,	according	to	his
gravestone,	“a	man	who	observed	the	prescribed	time	for	the	study	of	the

--- Page 72 ---
Torah.”	This	may	possibly	explain	why	he	sent	his	son	Mayer	Amschel	away	to
the	rabbinical	school	at	Fürth	when	he	had	completed	his	primary	education	in
Frankfurt.	Whatever	his	reasons,	it	is	not	the	case	(as	some	historians	have
erroneously	inferred)	that	Mayer	Amschel	was	intended	for	the	rabbinate;
Cohen,	who	wrote	a	brief	and	laudatory	biography	shortly	after	Mayer
Amschel’s	death	and	probably	knew	him,	states	that	he	only	“studied	his	religion
in	order	.	.	.	to	be	a	good	Jew.”	However,	Mayer	Amschel’s	studies	at	Fürth	were
cut	short	by	the	untimely	death	of	his	parents	in	1755	and	1756,	victims	of	one
of	the	epidemics	which	still	periodically	swept	through	German	towns.	He	was
just	twelve	years	old.
At	this	point,	he	might	well	have	returned	to	rejoin	his	elder	sister,	Gutelche,
and	two	brothers,	Moses	and	Kalman.	Instead,	he	was	sent	to	Hanover	to	learn
the	rudiments	of	business	in	the	firm	of	Wolf	Jakob	Oppenheim	(presumably	a
business	associate	of	his	father’s).	This	was	a	formative	experience,	because	it
brought	him	for	the	first	time	into	direct	contact	with	the	privileged	world	of	the
court	agents.	Of	course,	Mayer	Amschel	almost	certainly	knew	something	of	this
world	already.	Süss-Oppenheimer,	after	all,	had	been	executed	just	six	years
before	he	was	born.	Moreover,	we	know	that	Süss	had	been	involved	in	at	least
one	bills	transaction	with	Mayer	Amschel’s	grandfather.	But	now	the	boy	could
see	at	closer	quarters	what	it	meant	to	be	a	“court	Jew,”	since	Oppenheim’s
grandfather	Samuel	had	been	court	agent	to	the	Austrian	Emperor,	and	his	uncle
was	agent	to	the	Bishop	of	Cologne.	It	was	in	Hanover	that	Mayer	Amschel
began	to	acquire	an	expertise	which	was	calculated	to	help	him	acquire	the	status
of	court	agent	for	himself.	He	became	a	dealer	in	rare	coins	and	medals,	a	line	of
business	in	which	clients	were	almost	invariably	aristocratic	collectors,	and	in
which	a	knowledge	of	Samuel	Maddai’s	complex	system	of	numismatic
classification	was	indispensable.
When	he	returned	to	Frankfurt—as	he	was	obliged	by	residence	laws	to	do
when	his	apprenticeship	ended—in	around	1764,	Mayer	Amschel	was	quick	to
put	this	expertise	to	good	use.	Within	a	year	of	his	return,	he	had	succeeded	in
selling	rare	medals	to	a	well-born	client	whose	future	importance	to	the
Rothschilds	was	to	be	considerable.	Admittedly,	Mayer	Amschel’s	first
transaction	with	William,	Hereditary	Prince	of	Hesse-Kassel,	was	small	beer.
Assuming	that	he	was	the	“Jew	Meyer”	referred	to	in	William’s	Privy	Purse
accounts	for	June	1765,	it	involved	nothing	more	than	38	gulden	and	30	kreuzers
—a	trifling	sum,	and	one	of	many	such	small	purchases	the	Prince	made	from
various	dealers	in	the	years	after	1763,	as	he	built	up	his	fashionable	collection

--- Page 73 ---
of	medals	and	coins.
4
	Nevertheless,	this—along	with	“various	deliveries”	of
which	no	record	survives—was	enough	to	justify	a	request	in	1769	that	Mayer
Amschel	be	granted	the	title	of	court	agent,	a	request	which	was	duly	granted	in
September	of	that	year.	A	year	later	he	consolidated	this	new	status.	In	August
1770	(at	the	age	of	twenty-six)	he	married	Gutle,	the	sixteen-year-old	daughter
of	Wolf	Salomon	Schnapper,	court	agent	to	the	Prince	of	Saxe-Meiningen.	In
addition	to	the	benefits	of	association	with	her	father,	the	match	brought	Mayer
Amschel	vital	new	capital,	in	the	form	of	a	dowry	of	2,400	gulden.	It	was	to
prove	the	first	of	a	succession	of	carefully	calculated	Rothschild	marriages,
laying	a	foundation	of	prosperous	kinship	every	bit	as	important	as	the
foundation	of	royal	patronage	represented	by	the	title	of	court	agent.
In	the	years	which	followed,	Mayer	Amschel—initially	in	partnership	with	his
brother	Kalman,	before	the	latter’s	death	in	1782—successfully	established
himself	as	Frankfurt’s	leading	dealer	not	only	in	coins	and	medals,	but	also	in	all
kinds	of	antiques.	We	can	see	how	he	operated	from	the	meticulous	catalogues
he	circulated	to	his	widening	circle	of	aristocratic	customers.	By	the	1780s	the
items	listed	included	ancient	Greek	and	Roman	as	well	as	German	coins,	and
also	a	variety	of	other	antiques	and	“curiosities”	of	the	sort	a	wealthy	collector
might	display	alongside	his	coin	collection:	carved	figures,	precious	stones	and
the	like.	The	total	value	of	the	goods	for	sale	in	each	catalogue	varied	from
around	2,500	gulden	to	5,000	gulden;	however,	if	an	item	interested	a	client,
Mayer	Amschel	would	send	it	for	
inspection	and	then,	if	the	customer	wished	to
make	a	purchase,	negotiate	a	selling	price,	often	some	way	below	the	guide	price
in	the	catalogue.	According	to	the	surviving	Privy	Purse	accounts,	Prince
William	did	not	become	a	regular	customer	until	1790,	after	which	date	he	made
purchases	almost	every	year.	Other	clients	included	Goethe’s	patron,	the	Duke	of
Weimar.
That	the	basis	of	the	Rothschilds’	fortune	was	mail-order	antique	sales	to
aristocratic	numismatists	may	seem	surprising;	but	there	is	no	question	that
without	the	capital	Mayer	Amschel	was	able	to	accumulate	by	buying	and
selling	“curiosities,”	he	would	never	have	had	the	resources	to	move	into
banking.	It	is	not	immediately	obvious	how	successful	he	was	as	an	antique
dealer:	his	property	tax	assessment	remained	a	constant	2,000	gulden	between
1773	and	1794.	However,	the	
Maaserbuch
	or	
Zehentbuch
	in	which	he
punctiliously	recorded	his	charitable	donations	(a	tenth	of	his	annual	income,
according	to	Jewish	law)	suggested	to	his	later	biographer	Berghoeffer	that
Mayer	Amschel’s	annual	
income
	in	the	1770s	must	have	been	in	the	region	of

--- Page 74 ---
2,400	gulden—roughly	the	same	as	that	of	the	Goethe	family,	and	rather	more
than	was	earned	at	the	time	by	a	local	official	like	a	tax	assessor	(
Schultheiss
).
On	the	basis	of	these	and	other	available	figures,	Berghoeffer	estimated	Mayer
Amschel’s	total	wealth	in	the	mid-1780s	at	around	150,000	gulden	(around
£15,000).
We	also	know	that	Mayer	Amschel	was	rich	enough	to	move	house	in	1787.
Shortly	after	returning	to	Frankfurt,	he	and	and	his	two	brothers	had	acquired
complete	ownership	of	the	Hinterpfann	house,	buying	out	the	distant	relations
with	whom	their	parents	had	shared	it.	Now,	some	twenty	years	later,	Mayer
Amschel	sold	his	three-eighths	share	of	the	Hinterpfann	to	his	brother	Moses
(for	3,300	gulden)	and,	beginning	in	1783,	bought	a	substantially	larger	house,
“zum	grünen	Schild”	(“the	green	shield”),	for	more	than	11,000	gulden.
5
	By	the
standards	of	a	Gentile	family	like	the	Goethes,	this	was	still	a	wretchedly
cramped	place	to	live:	just	fourteen	feet	wide,	with	rooms	so	narrow	that	beds
could	be	placed	only	along	the	side-walls	at	right	angles	to	the	street.	It	was
wretched	by	the	standards	of	the	next	generation	of	Rothschilds	too:	Mayer
Amschel’s	sons	would	look	back	without	nostalgia	on	the	days	“when	we	all
slept	in	one	little	attic	room.”	But	by	the	standards	of	the	Judengasse	it	was	a
desirable	residence.	Located	in	the	middle	of	the	street—roughly	opposite	the
middle,	western	gate—it	had	been	rebuilt	after	the	1711	fire	and,	unusually,	had
its	own	waterpump.	On	each	of	the	three	upper	storeys	of	the	main	building
there	was	a	narrow	room	looking	over	the	street—each	with	three	small
windows,	a	stove	and	wall	cupboard—and	a	similar	room	looking	inwards	over
the	yard.	Through	the	back	door,	there	was	a	little	courtyard	with	a	small	two-
storey	building,	part	of	which	housed	the	single	lavatory.	Unusually	(and
usefully)	the	house	had	two	cellars,	one	of	which	was	reached	through	an
obvious	enough	trapdoor	in	the	entrance	hall,	and	the	other—a	larger	cellar
which	the	house	shared	with	its	next-door	neighbour—which	was	accessible
only	through	a	concealed	opening	underneath	the	stairs,	and	was	unconnected	to
the	other	cellar.
6
	The	new	space	above	the	ground,	limited	though	it	may	have
been,	was	needed;	for	Mayer	Amschel	and	his	wife	were	proving	to	be	a
remarkably	procreative	couple,	even	by	late-eighteenth-century	standards.	It
appears	that	Gutle	Rothschild	gave	birth	virtually	every	year	between	1771,	the
year	after	her	marriage,	and	1792.	Of	these	nineteen	or	so	children,	ten	lived:
Schönche	(1771),	Amschel	Mayer	(1773),	Salomon	Mayer	
(1774),	Nathan
Mayer	(1777),	Isabella	or	Betty	(1781),	Breunle	or	Babette	(1784),	Kalman	or
Carl	(1788),	Gotton	or	Julie	(1790),	Jettchen	or	Henrietta	(1791)	and	Jakob	or

--- Page 75 ---
James	(1792).
7
It	was	only	after	the	birth	of	his	youngest	child	that	Mayer	Amschel	began	to
engage	in	business	which	can	properly	be	called	banking.	In	some	ways,	the
transition	was	a	natural	one.	An	antique-dealer	with	a	growing	circle	of	suppliers
and	customers	naturally	would	extend	credit	to	some	of	these	from	time	to	time.
As	early	as	1790	we	find	Mayer	Amschel	listed	as	one	of	the	creditors	of	Joseph
Cassel	in	the	nearby	town	of	Deutz,	albeit	for	a	mere	365	gulden.	In	a	similar
way,	the	coin	and	medal	business	inevitably	brought	him	into	contact	with	the
Hessian	mint,	especially	as	his	most	coveted	client,	Prince	William,	often
commissioned	new	medals	to	be	struck.	In	1794,	for	example,	Rothschild
offered	to	sell	a	quantity	of	silver	to	the	Hessian	war	treasury	“at	the	best
possible	price.”
However,	the	speed	with	which	Mayer	Amschel’s	wealth	grew	in	the	1790s
marked	a	real	break	with	his	earlier	business	activity.	At	the	beginning	of	the
1790s	Mayer	Amschel	Rothschild	was	no	more	than	a	prosperous	antique-dealer.
By	1797	he	was	one	of	the	richest	Jews	in	Frankfurt,	and	a	central	part	of	his
business	was	unmistakably	banking.	The	evidence	for	this	breakthrough	is
unequivocal.	In	1795	the	official	figure	for	Mayer	Amschel’s	taxable	wealth	was
doubled	to	4,000	gulden;	a	year	later	he	was	moved	into	the	top	tax	bracket,	with
property	worth	more	than	15,000	gulden;	and	in	the	same	year	he	was	listed	as
the	tenth	richest	man	in	the	Judengasse	with	taxable	wealth	of	over	60,000
gulden.	Thanks	largely	to	Mayer	Amschel,	the	Rothschilds	had	become	one	of
the	eleven	richest	families	in	the	Judengasse	by	1800.	It	was	at	around	the	same
time	that	he	began	to	rent	a	large	four-roomed	warehouse	outside	the
Judengasse.	He	also	took	on	a	talented	and	multilingual	accountant	from	Bingen
named	Seligmann	Geisenheimer.	Further	evidence	of	increased	wealth	can	be
found	in	the	generous	dowries	Mayer	Amschel	was	able	to	give	his	children	as
they	began	to	marry.	When	his	eldest	daughter	married	Benedikt	Moses	Worms
in	1795,	she	received	a	dowry	of	5,000	gulden	and	was	promised	a	legacy	of
10,000	after	her	parents’	deaths.	When	his	eldest	son	married	Eva	Hanau	the
following	year,	he	was	given	a	share	of	the	business	worth	30,000	gulden.
Just	what	such	a	share	meant	can	be	seen	from	one	of	the	most	important
documents	to	have	been	found	in	the	recently	opened	Moscow	“trophy”	archive:
the	first	known	balance	sheet	of	Mayer	Amschel	Rothschild’s	firm,	dating	back
over	200	years	to	the	summer	of	1797.	The	total	assets	of	the	firm	at	this	stage
were	given	as	471,221	Reichsthaler	or	843,485	gulden,	the	total	liabilities	as
734,981	gulden,	leaving	108,504	gulden	(around	£10,000)	as—in	Mayer

--- Page 76 ---
Amschel’s	own	words—“the	balance	of	my	capital,	praise	God”	(“Saldo	meines
Vermögens,	Gott	lob”).	This	remarkable	document	repays	close	scrutiny,	for	it
reveals	that	Mayer	Amschel	was	already	far	more	of	an	international	merchant
banker	than	has	previously	been	realised.	The	“assets”	side	of	the	balance-sheet
evidently	excluded	Mayer	Amschel’s	personal	property,	in	that	the	family	house
does	not	appear	there:	by	“my	capital”	he	already	meant	his	firm’s	capital.	Most
of	the	assets	listed	were	either	state	bonds	of	various	sorts,	or	personal	loans	and
credits	to	a	widely	dispersed	range	of	other	firms.	On	the	other	side,	the
liabilities	consisted	of	sums	owed	by	Mayer	Amschel	to	an	equally	broad
spectrum	of	institutions	and	individuals.
The	geographical	range	of	Mayer	Amschel’s	business	credit	network	at	this
early	stage	was	wide.	The	balance	sheet	shows	that	he	was	doing	business	with
firms	located	not	only	in	the	immediate	vicinity	of	Frankfurt	(for	example,	in
Kassel	and	Hanau)	but	also	in	more	remote	parts	of	Germany,	ranging	from
Hamburg	and	Bremen	to	Regensburg,	Augsburg,	Leipzig,	Berlin	and	Vienna,	as
well	as	in	Amsterdam,	Paris	and	London.	Moreover,	in	addition	to	the	names
which	might	have	been	expected	to	feature	in	such	a	list	of	creditors	and	debtors
(such	as	Mayer	Amschel’s	son-in-law	Worms	and	his	future	son-in-law	Sichel),
there	appear	the	names	of	a	number	of	eminent	Gentile	firms,	including	the
Bethmanns,	de	Neufvilles	and	Brentanos	(whom	he	owed	a	good	deal	of
money).	The	celebrated	art-collector	Johann	Friedrich	Städel	also	had	deposits
with	Rothschild	totalling	17,600	gulden.	Finally,	the	balance	sheet	provides
evidence	of	a	new	kind	of	relationship	with	the	government	of	Hesse-Kassel,
which	he	owed	some	24,093	gulden.	It	is	not	without	significance	that	the	names
of	two	Hessian	officials—Louis	Harnier	and	Karl	Buderus—appear	in	their	own
right	as	creditors.
This	was	a	rapid	economic	ascent	by	any	standards.	Indeed,	Mayer	Amschel’s
success	had	been	so	swift	and	so	great	that	it	had	to	some	extent	outstripped	his
own	capacities.	In	1797	he	was	appalled	to	discover	that	one	of	his	most	junior
employees—a	youth	named	Hirsch	Liebmann—had	been	able	to	embezzle	a
substantial	sum	virtually	from	under	his	nose.	The	proceedings	of	the	subsequent
criminal	case	have	partially	survived	and	give	a	good	insight	into	the	chaotic
state	of	his	rapidly	expanding	business	at	this	period.	According	to	Mayer
Amschel,	Liebmann,	who	had	been	with	the	firm	some	three	years,	had	stolen
between	1,500	and	2,000	gold	carolins	(as	much	as	30,000	gulden)	from	his
office.	The	theft	had	been	possible	for	three	reasons.	Firstly,	Mayer	Amschel
allowed	Liebmann	to	buy	and	sell	goods	on	his	own	account	to	supplement	his

--- Page 77 ---
meagre	wages—one	and	a	half	gulden	a	month	after	the	rent	of	a	shared	room.
Indeed,	Rothschild	even	lent	him	a	small	sum	on	one	occasion	to	help	finance
this.	No	one	was	therefore	surprised	when	Liebmann	appeared	to	be
supplementing	his	wages,	even	if	he	was	doing	so	with	singular	success.
Secondly,	the	firm	had	no	safe	for	valuables	and	scarcely	any	office	security:	the
cupboard	in	the	main	office	was	frequently	left	open	during	business	hours	and
employees	and	clients	seem	to	have	come	and	gone	as	they	pleased.	No	one
therefore	noticed	when	coins,	notes	and	other	valuables	began	to	disappear.	And
thirdly,	Mayer	Amschel’s	system	of	book-keeping	was	woefully	primitive:	when
he	came	to	lay	charges	against	Liebmann,	he	had	virtually	no	documents	to
prove	how	much	had	been	stolen.	No	one	therefore	realised	that	money	was
missing	until	some	time	after	Liebmann	had	begun	stealing.	It	was	only	when	a
local	broker	appeared	in	the	office,	claiming	that	Liebmann	wished	to	buy	seed
from	him,	that	Mayer	Amschel’s	suspicions	were	aroused.	When	pressed,	the
man	admitted	that	this	was	a	cover	story	suggested	by	Liebmann;	in	fact,	he	was
there	to	buy	an	Austrian	bill	worth	around	1,220	gulden	which	Liebmann	had
offered	to	sell	him.	Mayer	Amschel	belatedly	grasped	where	his	employee	had
been	getting	the	money	for	his	gold	watches	and	handmade	shirts.	Further
enquiries	confirmed	his	suspicions:	Liebmann	had	not	only	been	spending
money	on	himself,	but	also	sending	it	to	his	parents	in	Bockenheim,	who	were
notoriously	“as	poor	as	could	be”	but	who	suddenly	seemed	able	to	afford	a	500
gulden	dowry	for	Liebmann’s	sister.	When	the	thief	was	arrested,	eight	thaler
coins	and	an	imperial	treasury	note	were	found	among	his	possessions,	as	well	
as
some	silver	spoons,	a	gold	salt	pot,	a	gold	mug	and	seven	medals,	belying	his
protestations	of	innocence.	Further	proof	of	guilt	was	unwittingly	provided	by
Liebmann’s	own	father,	who	offered	to	return	1,000	gulden	which	his	son	had
given	him	plus	an	additional	500	if	Rothschild	would	drop	his	charges.
Eventually,	though	only	after	prolonged	interrogation,	Liebmann	confessed.
Liebmann	gave	conflicting	accounts	of	the	theft,	at	one	point	saying	that	he
took	the	money	in	small	amounts	over	a	prolonged	period,	later	claiming	that	he
had	simply	snatched	two	sacks	of	coins	from	the	office	cupboard	while	Mayer
Amschel’s	second	son,	Salomon,	was	talking	with	some	clients.	Either	way,	the
case	illustrates	that	by	1797	at	the	latest	the	business	was	turning	over	so	much
cash	that	Rothschild	himself	could	not	keep	track	of	it:	bags	of	money	were
lying	around	the	office,	as	he	himself	told	the	court,	some	in	the	cupboard,	some
on	the	floor.	He	always	had	a	lot	of	money	in	his	house,	he	said,	because	of	his
“extensive	business	dealings.”	The	subsequent	decade	would	see	those	dealings

--- Page 78 ---
become	more	extensive	still.
	
The	Dual	Revolution
In	his	
Biographical	Notes	on	the	House	of	Rothschild,
	written	long	after	Mayer
Amschel’s	death,	Friedrich	von	Gentz	fulsomely	praised	his	business	acumen.
“Nevertheless,”	he	added	wisely,	“the	most	outstanding	personal	qualities	may
sometimes	require	exceptional	circumstances	and	world-shattering	events	to
come	to	fruition.”	This	was	doubly	true.
The	epoch-making	events	which	followed	the	summoning	of	the	French
Estates	General	by	Louis	XVI	in	1789	took	time	to	affect	the	lives	of	German
Jews	like	Mayer	Amschel	Rothschild	and	his	family.	But	when	finally	the
Revolution	reached	Frankfurt,	its	effects	were	profound—indeed,	literally
explosive.	The	advance	guard	came	as	early	as	October	1792,	when	French
troops	temporarily	occupied	Frankfurt,	just	ten	weeks	after	the	coronation	of	the
last	Holy	Roman	Emperor,	Francis	II.	We	should	not,	of	course,	exaggerate	the
significance	of	this	superficially	symbolic	change	of	regime.	Frankfurt	had	been
occupied	by	French	troops	before	(during	the	Seven	Years’	War)	and	it	seems
that	the	Jewish	community	was	no	more	pleased	than	the	rest	of	the	town’s
population	at	this	renewed	foreign	incursion.	Indeed,	for	all	the	potential	benefits
of	French	influence	which	could	be	inferred	from	the	National	Assembly’s
emancipation	of	French	Jewry	in	1791,	the	immediate,	tangible	effects	of	the
French	presence	were	distinctly	negative.	In	June	1796,	following	the	defeat	of
the	Austrian	army	at	Lodi,	Frankfurt	was	bombarded	by	the	victorious	French
forces	so	heavily	that	nearly	half	the	houses	in	the	Judengasse	were	destroyed	by
fire.
8
On	the	other	hand,	the	upheaval	of	war	had	its	advantages.	The	destruction	of
the	Judengasse	obliged	the	Frankfurt	Senate	to	relax	its	residence	restrictions,
granting	permits	(albeit	for	only	six	months)	to	the	2,000	or	so	people	left
homeless	by	the	fire	to	live	outside	the	Judengasse.	It	was	presumably	in	the
wake	of	this	relaxation	that	Mayer	Amschel	was	able	to	begin	renting	the
warehouse	in	the	Schnur	gasse.	Later	French	incursions	led	to	a	real,	if
temporary,	improvement	in	the	legal	status	of	the	Frankfurt	Jews,	an
improvement	foreshadowed	by	the	emancipation	of	the	Jews	in	those	parts	of	the
Rhineland	which	the	French	now	annexed.	(One	beneficiary	of	this	was
Geisenheimer,	the	man	Mayer	Amschel	hired	as	his	book	keeper.)	Of	more
immediate	importance,	the	war	presented	Mayer	Amschel	with	a	
new	and
lucrative	business	opportunity.	He	and	two	other	partners,	Wolf	Loeb	Schott	and

--- Page 79 ---
Beer	Nehm	Rindskopf,	were	able	to	secure	a	contract	to	provide	the	Austrian
army	with	grain	and	cash	during	their	operations	in	the	Rhine-Main	region.
The	French	Revolution	was	not	the	only	revolution	to	transform	Mayer
Amschel’s	life	and	business.	The	British	Industrial	Revolution,	in	its	first	phase
by	the	1780s	if	not	before,	exerted	an	equally	important	influence.	For	although
Mayer	Amschel	had	already	begun	building	up	his	banking	business	by	the	late
1790s,	this	did	not	imply	a	winding	up	of	his	previous	coin-dealing	business,
which	continued	in	a	small	way	even	after	his	death;	and	nor	did	it	preclude
expansion	into	other	potentially	profitable	fields	of	business	activity.	Of	these,
none	was	more	profitable	in	the	late	eighteenth	century	than	that	generated	by
the	English	revolution	in	textile	manufacturing.	In	particular,	the	dramatic
growth	of	(partly)	mechanised	cotton	spinning,	weaving	and	dyeing	in
Lancashire	signalled	an	unprecedented	and	genuinely	revolutionary	change	in
the	pace	of	economic	life.	Although	this	industrialisation	was	regionally	as	well
as	sectorally	concentrated—so	much	so	that	it	barely	registers	in	the	aggregate
national	income	figures	extrapolated	by	modern	economic	historians—its
ramifications	were	felt	as	far	as	Africa,	whence	the	slave	labour	of	the	cotton
plantations	came,	America,	where	the	cotton	itself	was	grown,	and	India,	where
an	established	native	textile	industry	was	soon	to	face	lethal	competition	from
the	cottages	and	mills	of	Lancashire	and	Lanarkshire.	Those	mills	exerted	a
powerful	pull	in	Germany	too,	where	demand	for	the	cheaper	yet	better	British
cloths—shawls,	handkerchiefs,	checks,	gauzes,	muslins,	muslinettes,	quiltings,
dimities,	velveteens,	sallampores	and	jaconets—grew	rapidly	in	the	1790s.
Mayer	Amschel	was	only	one	of	many	German	businessmen	to	scent	a	unique
and	highly	profitable	opportunity.	Around	fifteen	Jewish	firms	in	Frankfurt	alone
were	importing	English	textiles	by	the	turn	of	the	century,	and	a	number	of	these
established	permanent	agents	in	Britain	at	around	this	time.	Between	1799	and
1803	no	fewer	than	eight	German	merchants	settled	in	Manchester	for	this
purpose.
It	is	against	this	background	that	we	must	see	the	decision	to	send	Nathan,	the
third	of	the	Rothschild	brothers,	to	England	at	some	point	on	the	eve	of	the	new
century.	The	date	of	his	departure	from	Frankfurt	and	the	reasons	for	his	going
have	long	been	a	source	of	confusion	to	historians.	Although	some	have	Nathan
arriving	in	England	in	1797,	1799	or	1800,	the	majority	opt	for	1798.	There	is
little	evidence	to	support	this	last	date.	We	know	from	the	balance	sheet
discussed	above	that	Mayer	Amschel	had	begun	to	have	dealings	with	firms	in
London	from	at	least	as	early	as	1797,	but	on	a	fairly	limited	scale.	It	was	only

--- Page 80 ---
February	1800—the	date	of	his	first	letter	to	the	London	bankers	Harman	&	Co.,
requesting	that	he	be	permitted	to	draw	on	them—that	he	began	to	expand	his
English	business.	The	first	documentary	evidence	of	Nathan’s	presence	in
England	comes	from	1800	too.	Wolf	cites	a	letter	from	Nathan	dated	May	29	in
which	he	requests	an	acquaintance	to	reserve	“a	room	with	two	beds	in	it,	in
some	respectable	lodging	house”	for	himself	and	his	“business	manager.”	We
also	have	a	letter	from	Mayer	Amschel	to	Harman,	dated	June	15,	which
mentions	that	Nathan	would	“soon	be	at	your	place,”	and	a	letter	from	Nathan
dated	August	15	from	a	London	address	(37	Cornhill).	From	this	Williams
concluded	that	Nathan	had	actually	arrived	in	England	in	1800,	spent	the
summer	in	London,	then	proceeded	to	Manchester.	But	this	cannot	be	right.	Not
only	was	Nathan’s	first	letter	to	Harman	addressed	
from
	Manchester;	we	also
have	several	later	letters	in	which	Nathan	explicitly	states	that	he	had	first	come
to	Manchester	the	year	before,	1799.	It	therefore	seems	reasonable	to	conclude
that	Nathan	did	not	arrive	in	Manchester	before	1799,	though	he	and	his	father
were	not	doing	English	business	on	a	large	scale	until	the	following	year.	This
leaves	the	possibility—though	it	is	nothing	more—that	Nathan	first	crossed	the
Channel	in	1798,	staying	in	London	for	some	months	before	proceeding
northwards.
Why	did	Nathan	go	to	England?	In	the	absence	of	hard	evidence,	most
historians	have	followed	Nathan’s	own	account	of	his	emigration—which	he
related	to	the	MP	Thomas	Fowell	Buxton	in	1834—in	which	he	portrayed	the
decision	to	leave	as	his	own:
“There	was	not,”	he	said,	“room	enough	for	all	of	us	in	that	city.	I	dealt	in
English	goods.	One	great	trader	came	there	who	had	the	market	to	himself:	he
was	quite	the	great	man,	and	did	us	a	favour	if	he	sold	us	goods.	Somehow	I
offended	him,	and	he	refused	to	show	me	his	patterns.	This	was	on	a	Tuesday;	I
said	to	my	father,	“I	will	go	to	England.”	I	could	speak	nothing	but	German.	On
the	Thursday	I	started	.	.	.”
There	is	no	reason	to	think	that	this	version	of	events	was	wholly	fictitious.
Nathan	was	a	fiercely	ambitious	and	competitive	man,	as	quick	to	take	offence
as	to	give	it	in	his	business	dealings,	and	it	is	not	difficult	to	imagine	him
responding	impetuously	to	such	a	contretemps.	However,	in	a	number	of
respects	his	retrospective	account	was	misleading.	Perhaps	he	could	not	resist
romanticising	his	own	rags-to-riches	story;	perhaps	he	was	indulging	in	irony	for
the	benefit	of	his	after-dinner	audience	(the	latter	would	have	been	more	in

--- Page 81 ---
character).	In	any	event,	it	seems	highly	unlikely	that	his	father	would,	or	indeed
could,	have	entrusted	him	with	as	large	a	sum	of	money	as	he	suggested	to
Buxton—£20,000,	or	roughly	double	the	net	assets	shown	in	the	1797	balance
sheet—on	the	strength	of	a	youthful	impulse.	However	much	“start-up”	capital
Nathan	took	with	him,	the	idea	that	he	was	doing	much	more	than	following	his
father’s	orders	seems	unlikely.
For	political	reasons,	it	soon	became	imperative	to	conceal	the	fact	that
Nathan	was	acting	as	the	agent	of	a	Frankfurt	firm,	and	this	has	led	some
historians	to	assert	that,	once	he	arrived	in	England,	he	effectively	operated
independently	from	his	father	and	brothers.	But	the	evidence	in	the	firm’s
archives	for	this	period	is	unequivocal:	initially,	Nathan	took	his	orders	from
Frankfurt—indeed,	his	elder	brother	Salomon	was	sent	over	to	assist	him	in
1801—and	it	was	only	gradually	that	he	began	to	trade	on	his	own	account.	A
number	of	Nathan’s	earliest	letters	from	London	and	Manchester	are	signed	“pp.
Meyer	Amschel	Rothschild.”	Correspondence	between	father	and	son	was
evidently	regular	(though	very	little	of	it	has	survived),	and	Nathan	wrote
frequently	on	his	father’s	behalf	to	the	London	firms	of	Salomon	Salomons	and
Harman	&	Co.,	which	handled	the	firm’s	insurance	and	banking	business	in
London.	It	was	not	untypical	for	letters	of	this	early	period	to	begin	with	phrases
like	“My	father	wishes	me	to	write	to	you”	or	“Agreeable	to	the	direction	I	have
just	received	from	my	father.”	On	one	occasion	when	a	firm	let	him	down,
Nathan	warned	them	that	if	there	were	more	“complaints	of	this	nature	.	.	.	[I]
am	certain	my	father	will	order	me	to	turn	myself	to	somebody	that	will	attend
more	punctually.”	On	another,	he	informed	Salomons:	“I	received	letters	from
home	this	morn[in]g	advis[in]g	me	of	my	father	being	very	discontented	w[ith]
your	packing,	writing	that	I	must	not	send	any	more	goods	to	London	as	you
have	neglected	the	shipping.”	And	for	most	of	this	period	the	chests	of	cloth
which	Nathan	was	sending	to	the	continent	in	increasing	quantities	all	bore	the
insignia	“MAR”	for	Mayer	Amschel	Rothschild.	Nathan	was	not	sparing	his
father	anxiety	when	he	concealed	a	brief	illness	from	him	in	the	summer	of
1802.	Rather,	he	did	not	want	his	father	to	think	he	had	been	unable—for
whatever	reason—to	attend	to	business.	In	a	letter	to	a	recalcitrant	French
customer	not	long	after	this	illness,	Nathan	left	for	posterity	a	revealing	insight
into	his	father’s	character,	and	his	own	view	of	it:	“Do	you	think	that	my	Father
will	sell	.	.	.	Goods	upon	his	own	bills	.	.	.	without	Profit?	You	are	quite
mistaken,	my	father’s	Chimney	will	not	smoke	without	Profit.”	Just	ten	days
later	he	received	a	stern	letter	from	his	father	accusing	him	of	not	keeping

--- Page 82 ---
“regular”	accounts.
Nathan’s	slapdash	approach	to	paperwork	was	evidently	a	recurrent	source	of
friction.	Three	years	after	this	first	admonition	on	the	subject,	Mayer	Amschel
was	still	harping	on	the	same	theme,	in	a	way	which	makes	it	abundantly
obvious	where	power	lay	in	their	relationship.	This	rare	letter—one	of	the	few	of
Mayer	Amschel’s	private	letters	which	survive—is	worth	quoting	at	some	length
to	give	a	flavour	of	the	early	Rothschild	correspondence:
[T]o	begin	with,	all	our	correspondents	complain	about	you,	dear	Nathan,	and
say	that	you	are	so	disorganised	when	sending	consignments.	Sometimes	you
write	that	you	have	sent,	for	example,	the	chest	with	this	number,	then	later	[it
arrives	with]	another	number.	If	you	send	a	chest	today,	you	only	let	Esriel	Reiss
know	six	months	after.	One	of	his	clerks	said	to	me	that	you	are	very
disorganised.	My	dear	friend,	if	you	don’t	write	down	all	the	numbers	of	the
chests	when	you	send	them	off,	if	you	don’t	write	them	down	until	you	receive
acknowledgement	that	they	have	arrived,	if	you	don’t	pay	attention,	if	you
[don’t]	ask	where	the	chest	has	gone	when	you	don’t	receive	an	answer	from
your	correspondent,	if	you	are	so	disorganised	and	don’t	have	someone	or	a
friend	with	you,	then	you	will	be	swindled.	What	is	the	good	of	that[?]	Everyone
can	be	a	millionaire	if	they	get	the	[right]	opportunity.	I	already	complained	in
Frankfurt	about	your	extraordinary	expenditures	and	disorganisation,	dear
Nathan;	I	don’t	like	it.
This	repetitive,	haranguing	style—which	was	inherited	by	Mayer	Amschel’s
elder	sons	Amschel	and	Salomon—does	not	make	for	easy	reading	today;	it
cannot	have	given	Nathan	much	pleasure	either.	However,	the	father’s
determination	to	bludgeon	his	son	into	mending	his	ways	provides	a	fascinating
insight	into	the	business	methods	of	the	day:
I	have	seen	the	orderly	way	in	which	Heckscher	and	the	merchant	Baresch
despatch	and	return	consignments.	They	have	special	clerks	in	order	to	keep	an
eye	on	everything.	They	say	that	without	good	order	a	millionaire	can	go	broke
the	more	business	he	does,	because	the	whole	world	is	not,	or	not	very,	honest.
When	people	see	that	you	are	not	orderly	in	your	despatching,	they	will	do
business	with	you	only	in	order	to	cheat	you	.	.	.	Mostly	they	will	pick	quarrels
with	you	in	order	to	cheat	you,	the	more	so	when	they	see	how	disorganised	you
are	with	your	consignments.	In	sum,	they	will	do	business	with	you	to	exploit
your	disorganisation.	There	was	a	man	in	Frankfurt	called	Eluzer	Elfelt	who
made	a	great	deal	of	money,	but	the	whole	world	made	money	from	him	because

--- Page 83 ---
he	was	so	disorganised	and	it	went	as	badly	for	him	in	the	end	as	he	himself	had
been	badly	organised.	Dear	Nathan,	don’t	be	angry	with	your	father.	When	it
comes	to	penmanship	you	are	not	much	good.	Take	on	a	clerk	to	manage	the
despatching	of	consignments	and	take	my	advice,	be	more	organised	with	your
despatching,	otherwise	I	don’t	give	your	business	much	chance.	The	more	you
sell	the	worse	it	will	get	if	you	aren’t	organised.	My	dear	son,	don’t	be	cross	that
I	write	like	this	.	.	.	You	have	to	be	careful,	and	Amschel	says	that	you	don’t
keep	a	proper	record	when	he	sends	you	remittances.	That	is	wrong	.	.	.	It	really
is	necessary	that	you	keep	a	precise	record	of	everything	that	you	send	us	and	all
that	we	send	you,	you	really	must	keep	your	books	properly.	If	you	can’t	manage
to	keep	all	our	accounts	in	good	order	because	of	your	book-keeper,	write	home
and	maybe	we	can	suggest	a	plan	.	.	.	If	you	are	organised,	organised	in	your
writing	and	careful	in	the	way	you	give	credit,	I	don’t	doubt	that	you	will	do
well.
Nor	did	this	paternal	lecture	end	there.	Mayer	Amschel	went	on	to	berate
Nathan	for	failing	to	calculate	his	profits	net	(as	opposed	to	gross);	for	doing
business	with	Rindskopf	in	precious	stones	(“But	you	are	no	jeweller”)	and	for
failing	to	discount	bad	debts:
My	dear	son,	you	must	not	be	angry	when	a	father,	who	has	the	happiness	of	all
his	children	at	heart,	asks	to	know	the	real	state	of	your	finances,	because	if	you
have	many	bad	debts,	which	God	forbid,	and	enter	them	as	if	they	are	good,	that
is	simply	to	pretend	that	you	are	rich	.	.	.	My	dear	son,	you	are	hard-working.	Do
your	bit	like	a	good	boy.	You	can’t	do	more.	I	just	want	to	encourage	you	to	be
more	organised	.	.	.	You	really	have	a	good	brain	but	you	haven’t	learnt	[the
importance	of]	order,	and	here	I	see	that	all	the	merchants	who	are	well
organised	are	the	ones	who	get	very	rich,	and	the	ones	who	are	disorganised	are
the	ones	who	go	broke.	So	dear	son	don’t	take	it	badly	when	I	write	you	my
opinion.
What	is	unmistakably	apparent	from	this	letter	is	that,	in	Mayer	Amschel’s	eyes,
Nathan	was	still	just	one	of	five	subordinates	within	an	essentially	patriarchal
family	firm.	Provided	Nathan	improved	his	business	methods,	he	could	look
forward	to	having	“as	good	a	share	in	my	business	as	your	brothers”	once	their
sisters	had	been	married	off.	But	until	then,	Mayer	Amschel	would	give	the
orders.
Another	possibility	which	has	been	suggested	is	that	Nathan	left	Frankfurt	in
order	to	escape	from	the	religious	restrictions	of	the	ghetto.	It	is	true	that	Jews—

--- Page 84 ---
who	had	been	readmitted	to	England	only	in	1656	after	three	and	a	half	centuries
of	exclusion—enjoyed	far	greater	liberty	in	England	than	in	Germany	in	the
early	1800s.	There	were	very	few	economic	restrictions	on	Jews	in	England	by
this	time,
9
	though	(in	common	with	Catholics,	Non-conformists	and	unbelievers)
they	were	still	excluded	from	Parliament,	local	government	and	the	universities,
and,	as	foreigners,	new	immigrants	were	subject	to	increasingly	stringent
supervision	as	the	war	with	France	intensified	(Jews	born	in	Britain	were	British
subjects).	In	London,	confident	and	prosperous	Jewish	communities	had
developed	during	the	eighteenth	
century	including	Sephardic	families	like	the
Mocattas	and	Ashkenazim	like	the	merchant	Levi	Barent	Cohen,	whose	father
had	been	a	successful	Amsterdam	linen-dealer.	In	the	late	1790s	Benjamin	and
Abraham	Goldsmid	were	already	playing	just	the	sort	of	dynamic	financial	role
which	Nathan	would	later	imitate	with	such	success,	challenging	the	dominance
of	the	Baring	brothers	and	their	Amsterdam	correspondents	Hope	&	Co.—and
incurring	in	the	process	a	version	of	the	sort	of	religiously	tinged	but	essentially
economic	resentment	we	have	already	encountered	in	Frankfurt.	We	know
Nathan	had	an	entrée	into	this	world	through	his	father’s	business	contacts	with
Salomons.	Yet	he	apparently	spent	no	more	than	a	few	months	in	London	when
he	first	arrived	in	England,	before	setting	off	northwards	to	the	far	less	socially
congenial	environment	of	Manchester,	where	the	small	and	still	embryonic
Jewish	community	was	overwhelmingly	made	up	of	poor	shopkeep	ers—dealers
in	old	clothes,	cheap	jewellery,	umbrellas	and	patent	medicines.	Though	he	was
subjected	to	much	less	formal	discrimination	in	Manchester	than	he	had	been	in
Frankfurt,	it	is	hard	to	believe	that	Nathan	was	attracted	there	by	anything	other
than	business.
How	successful	was	Nathan	in	what	contemporaries	sometimes	disparaged	as
the	“rag	trade”?	Very,	according	to	his	own	account,	thanks	mainly	to	his	own
business	acumen:
.	.	.	the	nearer	I	got	to	England,	the	cheaper	goods	were.	As	soon	as	I	got	to
Manchester,	I	laid	out	all	my	money,	things	were	so	cheap;	and	I	made	good
profit.	I	soon	found	that	there	were	three	profits—the	raw	material,	the	dyeing,
and	the	manufacturing.	I	said	to	the	manufacturer,	“I	will	supply	you	with
material	and	dye,	and	you	will	supply	me	with	manufactured	goods.”	So	I	got
three	profits	instead	of	one,	and	I	could	sell	goods	cheaper	than	anybody.	In	a
short	time	I	made	my	20,000£	into	60,000£.	My	success	all	turned	on	one
maxim.	I	said:	I	can	do	what	another	man	can,	and	so	I	am	a	match	for	the	man

--- Page 85 ---
with	the	patterns,	and	for	all	the	rest	of	them!	Another	advantage	I	had.	I	was	an
off-hand	man.	I	made	a	bargain	at	once.
This	was	not	a	bad	summary	of	Nathan’s	mode	of	operation,	but	again	it	greatly
oversimplified	matters.	Nathan	arrived	in	Lancashire	with	orders	for	British
textiles	from	his	father,	and	continued	to	receive	these	by	post.	Having	assessed
the	market	to	establish	the	quality	and	price	of	cloth	available,	he	then	proceeded
to	place	these	orders	with	manufacturers—not	only	those	based	near	Manchester,
but	also	from	firms	as	far	afield	as	Nottingham,	Leeds,	Stockport	and	even
Glasgow.	The	cloth	was	then	manufactured	(usually	by	sub-contracted	weavers
in	their	cottages)	and	“finished”	by	dyers	and	printers,	usually	small	firms	in	and
around	Manchester.	In	order	to	drive	down	the	price	of	the	goods	he	bought,
Nathan	tried	as	far	as	possible	to	pay	up	front	“on	present	bill	terms,”	which
meant	“drawing	on”	(that	is,	borrowing	from)	his	London	bankers	“at	three
months”	(for	three	months).	As	he	explained	in	December	1802:
On	Tuesdays	and	Thursdays	the	weavers	who	live	in	the	country	twenty	miles
round	Manchester	bring	here	their	goods,	some	twenty	or	thirty	pieces,	others
more,	others	less,	which	they	sell	to	the	merchants	here	at	two,	three	and	six
months’	credit.	But	as	there	are	generally	some	of	
them	in	want	of	money	and
willing	to	sacrifice	some	profit	to	procure	it,	a	person	who	goes	with	ready
money	may	sometimes	buy	15	or	20	per	cent	cheaper.
Nathan	did	not	actually	have	to	pay	the	bigger	manufacturers	until	their	goods
were	shipped	for	the	continent.	On	the	other	hand,	it	was	necessary	to	wait—
usually	two	months—before	expecting	payment	from	Frankfurt.	Obviously,	the
profit	to	be	made	in	such	a	business	took	the	form	of	simple	percentages.
However,	at	a	time	when	profit	margins	in	the	textile	industry	could	be	as	high
as	20	per	cent,	Nathan’s	charges	were	modest:	5	per	cent	on	the	cost	price	for
purchases	in	cash	from	his	warehouse,	as	little	as	9	per	cent	for	goods	which	had
to	be	despatched	to	the	continent.	This	was	a	deliberate	ploy	to	attract	customers
and	increase	his	market	share:	in	his	letters	to	potential	buyers,	Nathan
constantly	stressed	that	his	mark-up	as	a	middle-man	was	lower	than	those
charged	by	his	competitors.	As	he	told	his	father	in	September	1802:	“No	House
in	Manchester	purchase	the	Goods	cheaper—if	so	cheap—as	I	do	and	none	are
at	so	much	trouble	as	we	are	to	procure	them	to	advantage.”	“You	cannot	find
any	person	in	Manchester	who	will	serve	you	with	so	small	a	Profit	as	myself,”
he	assured	one	new	customer.	“I	have	the	pleasure	to	tell	you	my	meaning
plainly,	if	you	will	do	any	business	with	me	in	future,	you	may	depend	that	I

--- Page 86 ---
shall	send	you	Goods	as	cheap	as	any	Person	in	the	whole	World.”	Moreover,	as
his	business	expanded	and	he	began	to	export	to	firms	other	than	his	father’s,
Nathan	began	to	offer	not	only	low	prices	but	also	reasonable	credit	terms,
telling	the	same	buyer	that	he	regarded	his	money	as	being	“as	safe	in	your
hands	as	if	I	had	it	in	my	Pocket.”	His	continental	customers	were	generally
expected	to	pay	with	bills	falling	due	after	three	months—in	effect,	five	months
after	the	goods	had	been	shipped	(and	paid	for)	by	Nathan.	The	more	Nathan
could	pay	in	cash	or	“present	bills,”	the	less	he	could	pay	his	suppliers;	the	more
credit	he	could	give	his	customers,	the	more	customers	he	attracted.	This	seems
to	have	been	his	fundamental	principle.
The	practical	implications	of	this	system	were,	as	the	letter	copy	books	of	the
period	show,	nerve-racking.	To	begin	with,	Nathan	himself	had	to	do	a	great	deal
of	travelling	to	establish	a	network	of	suppliers	and	customers.	As	early	as
November	1800	he	left	Manchester	for	Scotland,	where	he	apparently	found
better	cloth	or	better	prices.	He	returned	there	again	in	1801	and	1805.	Frequent
trips	to	London	(like	the	one	he	made	in	the	summer	of	1800	or	1801)	were	also
necessary	to	maintain	good	relations	with	the	bankers	on	whose	overdraft
facilities	he	depended.	And	although	some	buyers	sent	agents	to	Manchester,
Nathan	preferred	to	deal	directly	with	continental	firms,	making	at	least	two
major	expeditions	across	the	Channel	to	drum	up	new	business.	The	spring	of
1802	saw	him	in	France	and	the	Netherlands,	establishing	links	with	firms	in
Paris,	Nancy,	Lyon,	Liège,	Metz,	Brussels,	Maastricht,	Antwerp	and	Amsterdam.
Before	returning	to	England,	he	also	went	to	Germany	and	Switzerland,	securing
orders	from	firms	in	Hamburg,	Nuremberg,	Heidelberg,	Cologne,	Munich,
Memmingen,	Salzburg,	Leipzig,	Königsberg	and	Basel.	His	list	of	customers	for
1803	even	included	a	firm	in	Moscow.	One	of	the	catalogues	he	took	with	him
on	such	trips	still	survives	and	shows—on	page	after	page	studded	with	small
squares	of	cloth—the	extraordinary	range	of	patterns	and	textures	British
manufacturers	were	able	to	produce.
10
	These	absences	in	turn	meant	
that	a
considerable	amount	of	work	devolved	on	his	clerks,	principally	Joseph	Barber,
an	English	book-keeper	he	had	hired	shortly	after	arriving	in	Manchester.
Yet	no	amount	of	travelling	could	ensure	that	suppliers	delivered	their	goods
on	time,	or,	for	that	matter,	delivered	the	goods	that	had	actually	been	ordered.
Much	of	Nathan’s	correspondence	was	therefore	concerned	with	cajoling
manufacturers	to	comply	with	his	orders.	At	the	same	time,	there	was	no
guarantee	that	customers	would	always	be	satisfied	with	the	goods	they	received,
and	almost	as	much	time	had	to	be	spent	in	haggling	retrospectively	about	the

--- Page 87 ---
price	and	the	quality	of	consignments.	As	he	remarked	ruefully	to	Geisenheimer
“If	I	send	off	the	goods	it	is	two	months	before	I	can	draw	at	3	months	date	and
then	.	.	.	I	may	be	kept	out	of	my	money	five	or	six	months	.	.	.	it	is	very	easy	to
get	commissions	but	not	quite	so	easy	to	get	paid	for	them.”	Nathan	also	had
recurrent	disputes	with	his	bankers	in	London	over	their	interest	charges,	and	the
very	high	costs	of	insurance	which	they	took	care	of.	These	three	pressures	seem
to	have	led	to	a	degree	of	diversification	on	Nathan’s	part.	It	seems	that	in	1801
dissatisfaction	with	his	suppliers	prompted	him	to	become	directly	involved	in
manufacturing	himself—hence	the	purchase	of	a	copping	machine	from	Boulton
&	Watts.	Then,	in	1805,	he	went	into	partnership	with	another	immigrant	from
Frankfurt,	Nehm	Beer	Rindskopf	(the	son	of	Mayer	Amschel’s	business
associate	Beer	Nehm),	leaving	the	latter	to	deal	with	sales	to	customers.
Rindskopf	soon	led	Nathan	to	diversify	further,	placing	orders	on	his	behalf	not
only	for	cloth	but	also	for	indigo,	and	later	pearls,	tortoiseshell	and	ivory	(so-
called	colonial	goods	imported	to	Britain	from	her	overseas	empire).	Finally,
Nathan	began	to	concentrate	increasing	amounts	of	his	own	attention	on	the
various	credit	transactions	generated	by	his	business.	He	constantly	shopped
around	for	better	borrowing	and	bill-discounting	facilities,	dealing	with	a
succession	of	London	bankers	including	Lyon	de	Symons,	Goldsmid	&
D’Eliason	and	Daniel	Mocatta,	as	well	as	continental	bankers,	notably	Parish	&
Co.	and	the	Schröder	brothers.	Like	his	father,	he	was	gradually	shifting	from
being	a	merchant	to	being	a	merchant	banker.
The	frenetic,	hustling	atmosphere	of	these	formative	years	is	vividly	captured
in	the	letter	books	of	Nathan’s	which	have	survived.	In	a	market	crowded	with
numerous	small	businesses,	subject	to	rapid	fluctuations	in	prices	and	interest
rates	and	almost	completely	unregulated,	it	took	a	combination	of	burning
aggression	and	cool	calculation	to	survive	and	thrive.	Nathan	Rothschild
possessed	both	in	abundance.	He	was	prepared,	in	his	earliest	days,	to	be
ingratiating,	on	one	occasion	sending	Salomon	Salomons	a	cask	of	wine	in	the
hope	of	getting	better	insurance	rates.
11
	But	soon	the	brash,	even	bullying	tone
which	seems	to	have	come	most	naturally	to	him	began	to	predominate.	As	early
as	December	1800	he	could	write	confidently	to	one	Scottish	manufacturer	with
whom	he	had	placed	an	order:	“[P]rovided	you	will	exert	your	best	endeavours
to	please	me	and	expeditiously,	[you]	may	rest	assured	that	it	is	in	my	power	to
furnish	you	regularly	with	considerable	commissions.”	Two	weeks	later	he
underlined	the	message:	“I	expect	any	day	commis[sion]s	from	the	Continent.	I
certainly	shall	give	you	the	preference	but	wish	to	have	the	commis[sion]s	you

--- Page 88 ---
have	.	.	.	executed	first	before	I	can	give	you	any	more.	You	request	to	have	3
weeks	more	to	execute	it	but	the	quicker	you	are	in	serving	me,	and	the	lower
you	do	it,	the	more	com[missions]	you	may	depend	on.”	When	no	response	was
forthcoming,	Nathan	was	indignant:	“I	am	astonished	that	I	
have	not	heard	from
you	before	this.	When	I	was	in	Glasgow	you	promised	me	faithfully	to	execute
my	order	instantly	and	now	it	is	a	long	while	ago	that	I	never	even	heard	from
you.	If	you	could	execute	orders	in	a	short	time	you	might	depend	upon	large
commission	for	it	is	of	no	use	to	give	commission	if	they	are	not	executed	by	the
promised	time.”	Another	Scottish	firm	which	delayed	dispatching	goods	he	had
ordered	was	reproached	even	more	forcefully:
I	suppose	you	keep	them	in	possession	as	a	security	untill	I	had	sent	you	your
very	large	
Bill
	!	which	I	think	is	very	ungenteel	conduct	.	.	.	I	suppose	you	think
I	shall	never	come	to	Glasgow	or	Paisley	any	more	but	I	give	you	my	honor	I
will	come	again	in	2	mo[nths]	and	I	believe	I	shall	be	able	to	procure	plenty	of
goods	for	my	method	of	payment.
A	year	later,	he	did	not	hesitate	to	accuse	an	awkward	French	buyer	of
“chicanery.”
At	times,	Nathan	felt	himself	almost	at	war	with	his	business	rivals.	He	was
on	one	occasion	“surprized	beyond	measure	to	be	informed	of	the	most
scandalous	and	unfounded	reports	that	have	been	so	industriously	circulated	in
Frankfort	by	my	enemies.”	There	were,	he	told	his	father,	“many	people	in	this
country	that	would	be	very	glad	to	support	their	own	credit	and	character	by
destroying	mine—But	I	thank	God	that	I	am	so	firmly	established,	that	they
cannot	effect	their	purpose,	by	their	wicked	and	weak	attempts.”	No	doubt	his
rivals	did	seek	to	get	the	better	of	him.	However,	it	is	hard	to	avoid	concluding
that	at	times	he	let	his	combative	temper	run	away	with	him.	“You	are	a	great
rascal,”	the	Hamburg	banker	Behrens	told	him	in	the	course	of	a	minor	spat:
I	.	.	.	cannot	but	express	my	astonishment	at	the	tune	[
sic
],	as	well	as	the	contents
[of	your	letter];	to	be	sure	you	would	like	to	make	me	believe	you	as	virtuous	as
Cato	and	as	rigid	in	being	as	good	as	your	word	as	Regulus;	however	whether
your	wishes	in	this	respect	will	ever	succeed	with	me	remains	a	question	which	I
have	neither	the	leisure	nor	the	humour	to	investigate	.	.	.	You	are	often	crazy,
that’s	what	I	think.	Do	you	fancy	that	you	might	frighten	me	because	of	your
money?	I	have	as	much	as	you	have	and	I	am	not	even	living	in	England.
His	partner	Rindskopf	once	made	the	mistake	of	criticising	Nathan	in	the	early

--- Page 89 ---
stages	of	their	collaboration.	A	subsequent	letter	from	Rindskopf	suggests	that
Nathan	had	not	taken	this	well:	“My	speaking	my	mind	openly	to	you	proceeded
from	a	real	friendship	I	bear	towards	you	and	if	any	unguarded	expression	made
its	appearance	it	ought	to	be	placed	to	the	disappointment	of	the	moment	and	by
no	means	the	fault	of	the	Heart	but	on	my	part	everything	is	buried	in	oblivion
and	I	hope	and	wish	you	will	on	your	part	do	the	same	and	consider	myself	now
writing	to	my	old	friend	Mr	Rothschild.”	When	a	London	merchant	accused	him
of	doing	business	with	“none	but	swindling	houses,”	Nathan	was	incensed:
I	can	assure	you	Sir	that	there	is	not	a	House	with	whom	I	have	transactions	but
both	for	respectability	and	solidity	are	equal	to	your	own;	the	richest	and	greatest
Houses	in	London,	Hamburg	and	other	places	on	the	Continent	are	not
swindlers,	and	it	is	those	houses	with	whom	I	do	business	.	.	.	I	can	prove	to
anyone	that	I	never	made	a	bad	debt	or	lost	a	single	penny	thro’	any	of	my
friends	being	insolvent	which	I	presume	
would	not	have	been	the	case	had	my
business	been	done	principally	by	Swindlers	.	.	.	No	one	abhors	chicanery	and
complaints	more	than	I	do.
True,	it	was	always	extremely	important,	in	the	volatile	world	of	the	early-
nineteenth-century	textile	business,	to	preserve	one’s	reputation	as	an	honourable
businessman,	for	on	that	depended	one’s	creditworthiness	in	the	eyes	of	others.
All	the	same,	one	sympathises	with	another	correspondent,	who	evidently	found
Nathan’s	extreme	belligerence	hard	to	take:
The	great	misfortune	is,	that	as	soon	as	you	are	answered	on	one	point	the
vivacity	of	your	imagination	makes	you	suggest	another	and	a	person	in	business
who	has	something	better	to	do	than	eternally	refute	futile	obsessions	of	every
sort	must	be	naturally	averse	to	follow	you	through	the	labyrinth	of
misconceptions	or	erroneous	statements	in	which	the	fertility	of	your	mind
hurries	you	so	continually	to	so	little	purpose	to	yourself	and	to	the
dissatisfaction	of	others.
The	question	remains	how	financially	successful	this	aggressive	young	man
actually	was.	Circumstantial	evidence	suggests	that	Nathan	did	indeed	do	well.
By	1804,	when	he	was	granted	letters	of	denization,	he	had	a	house	in	Downing
Street,	Ardwick,	a	prosperous	area	of	the	town,	as	well	as	his	warehouse	in
Brown	Street.	Four	years	later	he	owned	a	“large	and	commodious”	warehouse
adjoining	a	“spacious,	modern	and	well	built”	town	house	at	25	Mosley	Street,
“the	most	elegant	street	in	Manchester.”	Such	figures	as	it	is	possible	to

--- Page 90 ---
construct	for	the	turnover	of	Nathan’s	business	between	1800	and	1811	(when	he
closed	down	his	Manchester	office)	confirm	the	impression	of	rapid	economic
ascent	(see	illustration	1.ii).	Indeed,	if	we	assume	that	he	achieved	profits	of,	to
err	on	the	conservative	side,	5	per	cent	on	his	gross	sales	of	around	£800,000
over	the	whole	period,	then	his	subsequent	claim	to	Buxton	that	he	made
£40,000	as	a	textile	merchant	looks	about	right.	On	the	other	hand,	his	progress
was	far	from	being	as	smooth	as	he	later	claimed.	As	illustration	1.ii	indicates,	a
good	period	beginning	in	early	1804	and	continuing	until	the	autumn	of	1805
was	succeeded	by	nearly	two	years	of	low	turnover.	This	repeated	itself	when
rapid	growth	in	the	volume	of	Nathan’s	business	in	1808	and	1809	was	choked
off	sharply	in	1810.
Such	abrupt	ups	and	downs	should	not	surprise	us.	Business	of	the	sort	Nathan
was	engaged	in	was	susceptible	to	sharp	seasonal	and	cyclical	fluctuations	at	the
best	of	times;	Nathan	had	to	deal	with	the	added	disruption	of	intermittent	war,
with	all	the	restrictions	on	trade	between	England	and	the	continent	which
characterised	the	Napoleonic	period.	Even	before	war	resumed	between	England
and	France	in	1803,	he	had	been	warned	of	possible	embargoes	on	cross-
Channel	trade.
12
	The	climate	for	business	was	already	deteriorating	in	1805,	so
that	the	formal	imposition	of	a	blockade—by	the	Berlin	decree	banning	British
imports	to	the	territories	under	French	control	(November	1806)—merely	set	the
seal	on	a	disastrous	collapse.	As	one	correspondent	lamented	as	early	as
November	1805:	“The	present	time	is	the	most	critical	and	the	most	unhappy	for
the	Continent	.	.	.	no	trade	whatsoever,	the	market	overstocked	with	goods	[and]
no	debts	coming	in.”	At	least	three	firms	with	which	Nathan	had	dealings,
including	M.	M.	David	in	Hamburg,	collapsed	in	the	first	months	of	1806,	well
before	the	imposition	of	the	blockade	in	June.	
Thereafter,	the	choice	for	firms
like	Nathan’s	was	between	inactivity	and	sanctions-busting,	with	all	the	risks
that	entailed.	In	May	1806	the	Admiralty	took	possession	of	five	ships	at	Hull
and	seized	contraband	worth	around	£20,000	which	had	been	purchased	in
Manchester	by	three	Jewish	merchants.	Another,	who	had	merely	come	to	settle
accounts	with	Nathan,	was	arrested	at	Stockport.	The	French	meanwhile	did	the
same,	arresting	Nathan’s	new	Hamburg	agent	Parish,	who	was	forced	to	sell
goods	of	his	at	a	heavy	loss	to	avoid	their	confiscation.	The	surviving	letter	copy
books	reveal	that	this	was	an	especially	difficult	period	for	Nathan,	as	his	bills
became	progressively	harder	and	harder	for	Rindskopf	to	discount.	As	early	as
April	1806	Parish	complained	to	Mayer	Amschel	that	his	son	had	exceeded	his
credit	limit	by	drawing	on	them	for	£2,000.	And	by	the	end	of	August	he	appears

--- Page 91 ---
to	have	owed	Rindskopf	over	£28,000,	on	which	he	was	paying	interest	at	4.2
per	cent	per	annum.	Matters	were	improved	by	the	Treaty	of	Tilsit	between
Napoleon	and	the	Tsar,	reports	of	which	reached	Nathan	from	his	brother
Amschel	in	July	1807;	but	the	restrictions	on	cross-Channel	trade	remained	in
force.
1.ii	The	turnover	of	Nathan	Rothschlid’s	textile	exporting	business,	1801-
1811(f).

--- Page 92 ---
Under	these	circumstances,	Nathan	therefore	had	little	option	but	to	carry	on
his	export	business	illegally—he	became,	in	a	word,	a	smuggler.	In	October

--- Page 93 ---
1807	he	was	sending	a	consignment	of	coffee	to	Sweden	via	Amsterdam,	using
an	American-registered	ship	and	fake	Dutch	documents.	Other	favoured	routes
for	contraband	were	through	Heligoland	and	the	Baltic	ports.	Of	course,	such
shipments	could	not	legally	be	insured,	so	that	the	risks	involved	were	very
substantial.	But	so,	presumably,	were	the	potential	rewards.	By	1808	Nathan	had
earned	a	reputation	as	a	man	who	had,	thanks	to	his	superior	“management,
judgement,	foresight	and	connections,”	regularly	“succeeded	in	getting	goods	to
the	Continent”—though	“not	a	word	was	passed	about	.	.	.	
how
	the	goods	had
been	sent.”	The	recovery	his	business	enjoyed	in	1808	and	1809	was	short-lived,
however.	In	September	1809	a	large	shipment	to	Riga	was	seized	and	could	be
released	only	by	means	of	“bribery—and	a	heavy	tax	indeed	it	was.”	Another
cargo	suffered	the	same	fate	at	Königsberg.
The	final	blow	came	in	October	1810,	and	it	fell	in	Frankfurt.	Ironically,	by
this	date,	the	Edict	of	Trianon	of	August	5	had	relaxed	somewhat	the	ban	on
imports,	legalising	the	import	of	so-called	“colonial	wares.”	However,	most
Frankfurt	firms	continued	smuggling,	partly	in	order	to	avoid	the	steep	import
tariff	imposed	under	the	new	rules,	partly	so	that	they	could	continue	to	deal	in
goods	defined	as	purely	British.	Mayer	Amschel,	for	example,	received	no	fewer
than	seven	shipments	from	England	in	July	1810	alone,	worth	altogether
£45,000.	On	October	14	the	Edict	of	Fontainebleau	was	published,	ordering	the
confiscation	of	all	English	and	colonial	goods	found	to	have	been	smuggled	into
French	controlled	territory.	Two	infantry	regiments	occupied	Frankfurt	and,	on
the	basis	of	reports	by	a	spy	named	Thiard,	some	234	firms	had	their	premises
raided.	Mayer	Amschel	was	caught	with	60,000	gulden	of	contraband	on	his
hands,	about	half	of	it	indigo,	presumably	sent	by	Nathan.	Not	only	was	the
Trianon	tariff	levied	on	the	goods	retrospectively	(a	fine	which	cost	Mayer
Amschel	nearly	20,000	francs);	all	the	goods	seized—worth	around	100,000
gulden	in	all—were	also	publicly	burnt.	As	one	observer	reported,	“The	extent
of	general	confusion	which	this	has	caused	beggars	description.”	Although
Mayer	Amschel	got	off	relatively	lightly—the	Bethmanns	had	to	pay	a	fine	of
more	than	360,000	francs—the	crisis	was	a	watershed.	Henceforth,	such	trade	in
commodities	would	play	a	declining	role	in	the	Rothschilds’	business.
13
For	Nathan,	this	transition	had	begun	in	October	1806,	with	his	marriage	to
Hannah,	the	daughter	of	Levi	Barent	Cohen,	a	leading	London	merchant.	Not
only	did	this	add	to	Nathan’s	capital,	to	the	tune	of	£3,248	from	her	dowry	and	a
further	substantial	sum	from	his	own	father;	it	also	made	him	the	partner	of	one
of	the	more	eminent	figures	in	London’s	Jewish	community.	It	was	with	Cohen

--- Page 94 ---
that	Nathan	undertook	much	of	his	smuggling	business	in	1807;	and,	like	his
previous	partner	Rindskopf,	Cohen	encouraged	his	new	son-in-law	to	widen	the
range	of	goods	he	exported	to	the	continent	to	include	Indian	and	Baltic	products
as	well	as	British	textiles.	This	was	merely	a	stepping	stone,	however;	for	by
now	Nathan	had	made	up	his	mind	to	become	a	fully	fledged	banker.	In	the	eyes
of	at	least	one	of	his	Manchester	associates,	he	had	already	achieved	this	as	early
as	1808,	though	he	was	not	yet	known	as	such	in	London,	having	only	acquired
an	address	in	the	city	(12	Great	St	Helens)	that	summer.	Although	Nathan’s
earliest	London	ledger	books	suggest	that	he	was	doing	banking	business	by
1810	at	the	latest,	the	move	from	Manchester	was	quite	protracted,	and	it	was
not	until	the	beginning	of	July	1811	that	he	was	able	formally	to	announce:
that	the	business	heretofore	carried	on	by	the	undersigned	Nathan	Meyer	[
sic
]
Rothschild	at	Manchester,	under	the	firm	of	“Rothschild	Brothers”	will	cease	to
be	carried	on	from	this	day,	and	any	persons	having	dealings	with	that	firm	are
required	to	send	their	demands	to	pay	their	accounts	to	N.	M.	Rothschild,	at	his
Counting-House,	in	No.	2	New	Court,	St	Swithins-lane	[
sic
],	London.
14
He	had	travelled	a	long	way	since	leaving	behind	the	cramped	confines	of	the
Judengasse—and	the	discrimination	symbolised	by	the	
Judensau
—just	twelve
years	before.	But	Nathan	Rothschild	could	not	have	acquired	his	new	City
address	at	a	more	propitious	moment.

--- Page 95 ---
TWO
The	Elector’s	Treasure
The	Old	Man	.	.	.	made	our	fortune.
—CARL	ROTHSCHILD
	
	
	
Nathan	Rothschild’s	success	in	the	heartland	of	the	early	Industrial	Revolution
was	of	undeniable	importance	to	his	father’s	business	back	in	Frankfurt.	In	this
sense,	the	Rothschilds	were	authentic	children	of	the	industrial	age.	Yet	it	was
Mayer	Amschel’s	parallel	success	in	the	old-fashioned	role	of	“court	Jew”	which
contemporaries	came	to	believe	counted	for	more	in	the	family’s	economic	rise.
Indeed,	even	Mayer	Amschel’s	own	sons	themselves	tended	to	regard	his
relationship	with	William	IX,	Hereditary	Prince,	Landgrave	and	after	1803
Elector	(Kurfürst)	of	Hesse-Kassel,	as	the	real	foundation	of	their	fortune.	Since
it	first	began	to	gain	public	currency	in	1826,	the	myth	of	the	Elector’s	treasure
has	been	related	so	often	and	with	so	much	embroidery	that	it	has	never
seriously	been	questioned.	Yet	a	close	scrutiny	of	the	surviving	records	suggests
that	the	Elector’s	significance	has	been	exaggerated—or	at	least	misunderstood.
William	of	Hesse-Kassel	was	almost	exactly	the	same	age	as	Mayer	Amschel,
and	shared	with	him	an	interest	not	only	in	old	coins	but	in	money	of	every	sort.
In	every	other	respect,	however,	the	two	men	were	as	different	as	could	be,	not
least	in	their	religious	backgrounds.	William’s	father,	Landgrave	of	Hesse-Kassel
between	1760	and	1785,	had	caused	consternation	to	his	Protestant	relatives—
not	only	his	own	father,	but	his	father-in-law	George	II	of	England	as	well—by
converting	to	Catholicism	as	a	young	man.	As	a	result,	the	young	William	was
effectively	removed	from	his	care.	During	the	Seven	Years’	War,	he	and	his
brother	Karl	were	sent	to	Denmark,	where	they	came	under	the	influence	of

--- Page 96 ---
another	Protestant	monarch	(also	linked	by	marriage	to	George	II),	Frederick	V
of	Denmark,	whose	daughter	William	married	in	1763.	Until	his	father’s	death,
William	ruled	independently	the	small	Grafschaft	of	Hanau-Münzenberg,	which
lay	immediately	to	the	north	and	west	of	Frankfurt.	Yet,	for	all	the	political
significance	of	religion	in	his	life,	it	cannot	be	said	that	William	observed	the
Commandments	with	anything	approaching	the	punctiliousness	of	his	lowly
Jewish	contemporary.	He	had	at	least	twelve	illegitimate	children	by	at	least
three	mistresses,	including	four	by	a	Hessian	noblewoman,	Caroline	von
Schlotheim,	and	no	fewer	than	seven	by	a	Swiss	woman,	Rosalie	Dorothea
Ritter.	Far	from	seeking	to	conceal	the	fruits	of	his	adultery,	William	gave	
them
all	suitably	grand	titles	and	names—von	Hessenstein,	von	Heimrodt	and	von
Haynau.
His	besetting	sin,	however,	was	avarice—a	sin	he	was	singularly	well	placed
to	commit.	For,	unlike	the	great	majority	of	kingdoms	and	principalities	in
eighteenth-century	Europe,	Hesse-Kassel	was	rich,	to	the	extent	of	between	30
and	40	million	gulden	at	William’s	accession.	Nor	was	its	ruler	prevented	from
disposing	of	this	wealth	as	he	pleased	by	any	of	the	political	restrictions	which
had	developed	in	other	parts	of	Western	Europe:	the	assets	of	the	state	were
effectively	indistinguishable	from	the	personal	wealth	of	the	Prince.	This	great
accumulation	of	capital	had	been	achieved	primarily	by	selling	the	services	of
the	Hessian	army	to	the	highest	bidder—usually	Britain—a	system	which
reached	its	zenith	during	the	American	War	of	Independence.	Even	before
succeeding	his	father,	William	was	already	engaged	in	this	trade,	selling	a
regiment	of	around	2,000	men	from	Hanau	to	fight	for	George	III	against	the
rebellious	colonists.	The	terms	were	lucrative:	William	received	76	gulden
(around	£7)	per	man,	plus	an	additional	charge	of	25	gulden	for	each	man
wounded,	and	76	for	each	man	killed.	This	money	was	paid	not	in	the	form	of
cash,	but	in	(non-interest-bearing)	bills	of	exchange	which	were	initially	paid	to
William’s	account	at	the	London	bank	of	Van	Notten	&	Son.	When	he	wanted	to
convert	these	into	cash	before	they	fell	due,	he	sold	them	to	brokers	in	Germany.
Although	he	did	spend	considerable	sums—for	example,	on	building	himself	a
new	palace,	Wilhelmshöhe—his	object	in	realising	such	bills	was	more	usually
to	invest	his	earnings	so	that	they	yielded	the	highest	possible	interest.	And,	as
the	majority	of	his	fellow	princes	in	Germany	were	frequently	in	want	of	money,
he	had	no	difficulty	in	doing	so	by	lending	to	them.
The	finances	of	Hesse-Kassel	consequently	resembled	less	those	of	a	small
state	than	those	of	a	large	bank.	While	the	Exchequer	(Kammerkasse)	collected

--- Page 97 ---
regular	revenues	from	the	royal	estates	and	indirect	taxes	which	were	then
disbursed	on	regular	civil	expenditures,	the	War	Chest	(Kriegskasse)	received
revenue	not	only	from	the	state’s	property	taxes	but	also	from	the	hiring	out	of
mercenaries	and	the	interest	on	the	Landgrave’s	investments,	which	it	managed.
William’s	total	assets	in	1806—adding	together	the	assets	of	each	financial
department—stood	at	more	than	46	million	gulden	(more	than	£4	million).	More
than	half	of	this	(28.8	million)	was	held	in	the	form	of	loans	to	other	German
princes,	notably	the	Duke	of	Mecklenburg-Strelitz	and	the	Prince	of	Lippe-
Detmold,	while	a	further	4.6	million	was	invested	in	English	annuities.	The	fact
that	his	net	income	after	all	expenditures	was	around	900,000	gulden	speaks	for
itself:	the	contemporary	view	that	he	was	one	of	the	richest	of	European
“capitalists”	was	not	far	wrong.	From	the	point	of	view	of	an	aspirant	banker
like	Mayer	Amschel,	William	therefore	exerted	a	magnetic	attraction.	Not	only
was	there	money	to	be	made	from	buying	and	reselling	his	English	bills;	there
was	also	money	to	be	made	from	placing	his	immense	and	constantly	growing
capital	in	secure	investments.	The	only	problem	from	Mayer	Amschel’s	point	of
view	was	that	other	people	were	already	making	that	money.
The	truth	was	that,	despite	his	efforts	to	gain	a	foothold	at	William’s	court
while	he	was	still	residing	in	Hanau,	Mayer	Amschel	was	still	to	all	intents	and
purposes	a	nobody	when	the	new	Landgrave	moved	north	to	Kassel	on	his
father’s	death	in	1785.	We	know	from	the	fact	that	he	requested	a	special	Sunday
pass	to	leave	the	Judengasse	in	1783	and	from	later	correspondence	that	Mayer
Amschel	had	already	
begun	to	involve	himself	in	the	English	bills	business.	But
it	was	not	until	1789	that	he	was	able	to	squeeze	himself	into	the	main	market
for	these	bills	at	Kassel	by	offering	to	pay	more	than	the	established	local	firms.
Even	then	he	was	granted	only	the	most	meagre	credit	facility—£800,	compared
with	the	figure	of	£25,000	given	to	the	leading	Kassel	broker	Feidel	David—and
when	he	requested	a	higher	credit	limit	the	following	year	he	got	just	£2,000,
compared	with	the	£10,000	he	had	asked	for.
1
	
At	this	point,	however,	Mayer
Amschel	struck	up	one	of	those	peculiarly	instrumental	friendships	based	on
mutual	advantage	which	were	to	become	a	hallmark	of	his	sons’	(and
grandsons’)	
modus	operandi
.	Karl	Friedrich	Buderus	had	begun	his	career	in
William’s	service	as	the	tutor	of	his	bastards	by	Dorothea	Ritter.	In	1783	he	had
moved	into	the	financial	administration	at	Hanau	and	in	1792,	at	the	age	of
thirty-three,	he	moved	to	Kassel	to	work	for	the	all-important	War	Chest,	rising
swiftly	through	the	civil	service	ranks.
The	first	sign	of	tacit	co-operation	between	Buderus	and	Rothschild	came	in

--- Page 98 ---
1794	when	the	former	explicitly	recommended	that	Mayer	Amschel	be	allowed
to	join	five	established	firms	in	bidding	for	a	sale	of	£150,000	of	English	bills.
Evidently,	his	recommendation	was	ignored,	but	Buderus	tried	again	in	1796	and
this	time	succeeded.	The	two	Gentile	banking	partnerships	of	Rüppell	&	Harnier
and	Preye	&	Jordis	had	offered	1	million	gulden	of	Frankfurt	city	bonds	to	the
War	Chest,	of	which	the	Chest	had	bought	900,000.	Buderus	then	tipped	off
Mayer	Amschel	that	he	should	offer	to	sell	the	remaining	100,000	gulden	to	the
Chest	at	a	more	generous	price	(97.5	per	cent	of	face	value)	than	the	other	banks
were	offering	(98	per	cent).	This	was	hardly	profitable	as	the	bonds	were	quoted
at	par	(that	is,	100)	on	the	Frankfurt	bourse,	but	the	slightly	larger	discount	he
was	offering	secured	Mayer	Amschel	the	foothold	he	had	so	long	sought.	In
1798	most	of	the	£37,000	of	English	bills	sold	were	bought	either	by	him,	by
Rüppell	or	by	Jordis	for	cash.	In	the	following	years,	Mayer	Amschel	steadily
increased	his	share	of	William’s	investment	business	as	well.	Altogether,
between	1801	and	1806,	he	was	involved	in	at	least	eleven	major	loans,	of	which
the	most	important	were	to	Denmark,	Hesse-Darmstadt,	Baden	and	the	Order	of
St	John.	He	also	became	involved	in	purchases	of	real	estate	on	William’s
behalf,	while	continuing	to	supply	him	with	his	beloved	medals.
The	negotiations	leading	up	to	the	various	Danish	loans	are	of	particular
interest	because	they	give	us	an	insight	into	the	way	Mayer	Amschel	squeezed
out	his	business	rivals.	At	first,	in	1800	and	1801,	he	was	content	merely	to	take
a	share	of	loans	which	were	organised	by	the	likes	of	Rüppell	&	Harnier	and
Bethmanns.	Before	long,	he	was	being	treated	by	them	as	an	equal	partner.
Finally,	from	around	1804,	he	was	able	to	establish	what	amounted	to	a
monopoly	of	Danish	business,	partly	thanks	to	the	“douceurs”	and	discounts	he
gave	the	obsessively	penny-pinching	William,	partly	thanks	to	the	good
relationship	he	established	with	the	Hamburg	banker	J.	D.	Lawätz,	who	played	a
mediating	role	between	Kassel	and	Copenhagen.	Altogether,	Mayer	Amschel
sold	William	Danish	bonds	worth	a	total	of	at	least	4.5	million	gulden	(roughly
£450,000)	in	this	period;	placed	three	loans	to	the	Landgrave	of	Hesse-
Darmstadt	totalling	1.3	million	gulden,	of	which	around	half	was	taken	by
William;	and	one	loan	to	Baden	of	1.4	million	gulden.	These	are	impressive
figures	and,	understandably,	Mayer	Amschel’s	success	aroused	considerable
envy	and	resentment	among	his	competitors.	In	1806	Rüppell	&	Harnier
complained	bitterly	(but	vainly)	about	aspersions	being	cast	on	their	honour	by
“Jewish	commercial	rivals”	who	seemed	to	believe	that	“the	name	Rothschild”
enjoyed	more	credit	in	Hesse-Kassel	than	that	of	the	Danish	government	itself.

--- Page 99 ---
Nor	was	such	ill-feeling	confined	to	Gentile	firms.	In	1802	the	Kassel	Jewish
community	lodged	a	complaint	against	Mayer	Amschel,	on	the	ground	that	he
was	to	all	intents	and	purposes	residing	in	the	town	(where	most	of	the	business
described	above	was	done)	without	having	the	status—and	tax	liabilities—of	a
“protected	Jew.”	Having	been	obliged	to	pay	180	gulden	to	buy	exemption	from
the	relevant	dues,	Mayer	Amschel	then	decided	to	secure	protected	status	for	his
eldest	son	Amschel.	With	wonderful	insincerity,	he	argued	in	his	application	that
the	presence	of	a	Rothschild	in	Kassel	would	“not	impair	the	activities	of	the
local	merchants	in	any	way	and	those	who	conduct	business	in	bills	will	rather
profit	from	this,	as	such	transactions	always	benefit	from	a	large	competition.”
Opposition	from	the	local	Jewish	community	and	hesitation	on	the	part	of	Mayer
Amschel	as	to	whether	the	residence	permit	should	be	in	his	or	his	son’s	name
meant	that	it	was	not	actually	issued	until	June	1806.
2
Yet,	despite	the	title	of	senior	court	agent	(
Oberhofagent
)	bestowed	on	him	in
1803,	it	is	important	to	stress	that	at	this	juncture	it	was	not	Mayer	Amschel	so
much	as	William	who	was	the	real	banker;	Rothschild	was	in	many	ways	more
of	a	stockbroker,	catering	to	his	client’s	growing	preference	for	bearer	bonds	as
opposed	to	personal	loans.
3
	Typically,	Mayer	Amschel’s	commission	when	he
bought	bonds	for	William	was	no	more	than	around	1.75	or	2	per	cent,	so	that
his	total	profits	from	this	business	probably	did	not	exceed	300,000	gulden.
Moreover,	on	at	least	two	occasions,	it	was	Mayer	Amschel	himself	who
borrowed	from	William.	At	the	same	time,	it	is	important	to	remember	that,
although	William	was	Mayer	Amschel’s	most	important	client	in	this	period,	he
was	by	no	means	his	only	client.	The	objective,	in	this	era	of	multiple	states,	was
to	establish	links	with	as	many	princely	courts	as	possible—something	which	the
loans	business	he	did	for	Hesse-Kassel	made	easy.	By	1803	he	had	been
appointed	court	agent	to	the	Order	of	St	John	(on	the	strength	of	a	decidedly	ill-
starred	loan),	the	Prince	of	Thurn	und	Taxis	(hereditary	postmaster	of	the	Holy
Roman	Empire),	the	Landgrave	of	Hesse-Darmstadt	and	Karl	Friedrich	Ludwig
Moritz	zu	Isenburg,	Count	of	Büdingen.	The	most	prestigious	of	these
appointments	came	in	1800,	when	Mayer	Amschel	secured	the	title	of	imperial
court	agent	from	the	Austrian	Emperor,	in	return	not	only	for	his	earlier	services
as	a	supplier	of	war	
matériel
,	but	also	for	his	work	in	collecting	the	interest	on
the	Emperor’s	considerable	borrowings	from	Hesse-Kassel.	His	only	failure
came	in	1802,	when	the	court	of	Bavaria	ignored	his	application	for	the	title	of
agent.
The	importance	of	such	titles	should	not	be	exaggerated,	of	course.	In	1803,

--- Page 100 ---
for	example,	Hesse-Darmstadt	customs	officials	simply	refused	to	recognise
Mayer	Amschel’s	privileged	status	as	a	court	agent.	In	any	case,	the	whole
system	of	petty	principalities	and	overlapping	jurisdictions	which	had	made	such
titles	matter	in	the	eighteenth	century	was	on	the	brink	of	an	unprecedented	and
revolutionary	upheaval—an	upheaval	which	was	to	transform	the	Rothschilds’
relationship	with	their	princely	patrons.	Up	until	1806	they	had	depended	on	the
Elector	and	his	ilk	for	their	business	and	the	privileges	they	could	confer.
Thereafter,	William	found	that,	little	by	little,	it	was	he	who	began	to	depend	on
Mayer	Amschel	and	his	sons.
The	Origins	of	a	Myth
As	we	have	seen,	there	had	already	been	one	major	collision	between	Hesse-
Kassel	and	the	forces	of	Revolutionary	France	in	the	1790s,	culminating	in	the
bombardment	of	Frankfurt	which	destroyed	the	Judengasse	in	1796.	That	had	led
to	a	strengthening	of	the	traditional	links	between	Kassel	and	London:	not	for
the	first	time,	William	put	troops	in	the	field	against	France	in	return	for	English
money.	True,	he	had	subsequently	accepted	the	terms	of	the	Peace	of	Lunéville
(1801),	which	transferred	the	left	bank	of	the	Rhine	to	France.	But	when	war
broke	out	again	between	England	and	France	in	1803	a	showdown	became
almost	inevitable.	William	was	too	committed	to	England	to	follow	the	lead	of
those	sixteen	German	states	which	seceded	from	the	defunct	Holy	Roman
Empire	to	form	the	Francophile	Confederation	of	the	Rhine	in	the	summer	of
1806.	He	was	also	too	intent	on	driving	a	hard	bargain	with	the	various	powers
bidding	for	his	support	to	realise	the	vulnerability	of	his	own	position.	Napoleon
offered	Hanoverian	territory.	On	the	other	hand,	the	Elector	(as	William	now
was)	had	lent	money	to	Austria	and	to	Prussia,	who	had	joined	the	coalition
against	France	in	1805.	When	the	Prussian	army	was	defeated	at	Jena	and
Auerstadt	in	the	autumn	of	1806,	he	was	hopelessly	exposed.	Neither	the	hasty
demobilisation	of	his	troops,	nor	his	belated	request	to	join	the	Rhine
Confederation,	nor	even	the	plaintive	signs	he	hastily	ordered	to	be	put	up	at	his
borders—“Electorat	de	Hesse:	Pays	Neutre”—could	deflect	the	wrath	of
Bonaparte,	in	whose	eyes	he	was	now	merely	“a	field	marshal	in	the	service	of
Prussia.”	“My	object,”	Napoleon	declared	bluntly,	“is	to	remove	the	House	of
Hesse-Kassel	from	rulership	and	to	strike	it	out	of	the	list	of	powers.”	William
had	little	option	but	to	flee,	heading	initially	for	his	brother’s	estate	at	Gottorp	in
Holstein	(then	Danish	territory).
4
	On	November	2	General	Lagrange	occupied
his	residence	at	Kassel	as	Governor-General;	two	days	later	he	issued	a
proclamation	formally	confiscating	all	his	assets	and	threatening	anyone	who

--- Page 101 ---
sought	to	conceal	these	with	trial	by	a	military	tribunal.
According	to	legend,	it	was	at	this	critical	moment	that	William	turned	to	his
faithful	court	agent	Rothschild,	hastily	leaving	in	his	care	the	entirety	of	his
movable	wealth:
The	French	army	was	actually	entering	Frankfurt	at	the	moment	when
Rothschild	succeeded	in	burying	the	prince’s	treasures	in	a	corner	of	his	little
garden.	His	own	property,	which	in	goods	and	money	was	worth	about	40,000
thalers,	he	did	not	hide,	well	knowing	that,	if	he	did	so,	a	strict	search	would	be
made	and	that	not	only	his	own	but	the	prince’s	hoard	would	be	discovered	and
plundered.	The	Republicans	who,	like	the	Philistines	of	old,	fell	upon
Rothschild,	left	him	not	one	thaler’s	value	of	his	own	money	or	property.	In
truth,	he	was,	like	all	the	other	Jews	and	citizens,	reduced	to	utter	poverty	but	the
prince’s	treasure	was	safe	.	.	.
According	to	this	not	untypical	version	of	the	story	from	an	English	newspaper
in	1836,	when	Mayer	Amschel	finally	returned	the	money	to	William,	he	replied:
“I	will	neither	receive	the	interest	which	your	honesty	offers	nor	yet	take	money
out	of	your	hands.	The	interest	is	not	sufficient	to	replace	what	you	lost	to	save
mine;	and	further	my	money	shall	be	at	your	service	for	20	years	to	come	and	at
no	more	than	two	per	cent	interest.”
As	discussed	in	the	introduction,	this	story	first	gained	currency	in	1827,	when
it	appeared	in	F.	A.	Brockhaus’s	
General	German	Encyclopaedia	for	the
Educated	Classes
.	Though	there	is	good	reason	to	think	that	it	was	initially
inspired	by	the	Rothschilds	themselves,	it	was	subsequently	so	widely
disseminated	as	to	take	on	a	life—and	a	variety	of	significances—of	its	own.
Initially,	it	was	intended	to	illustrate	the	family’s	exceptional	probity	as	deposit-
holders:	willing	to	risk	everything	rather	than	fail	to	protect	and	pay	interest	on	a
client’s	money.	That	was	certainly	the	message	of	Moritz	Daniel	Oppenheim’s
two	paintings	on	the	subject	commissioned	by	the	family	in	1861.	By	the	later
nineteenth	century,	however,	it	was	beginning	to	acquire	an	alternative	reading:
the	Elector’s	treasure	was	“blood	money”	because	it	had	been	earned	by	the	sale
of	mercenaries,	while	Mayer	Amschel	made	the	most	of	it	rather	than	merely
preserving	it.	The	positive	and	negative	versions	of	the	myth	are	vividly
juxtaposed	in	the	American	and	German	films	
The	House	of	Rothschild
	
(1934)
and	
Die	Rothschilds
	(1940).
As	has	long	been	realised,	the	story	is	fiction—though,	like	so	much	of	the
Rothschild	myth,	it	contains	a	very	tiny	grain	of	truth.	In	fact,	William’s	movable

--- Page 102 ---
property	was	widely	dispersed	in	the	period	after	the	French	occupation	and	only
a	few	relatively	unimportant	items	came	into	Mayer	Amschel’s	possession.
Some	of	the	most	important	valuables—mainly	bonds	(without	their	coupons,
which	were	stored	separately)—were	successfully	smuggled	out	of	Kassel	by
Buderus,	who	made	the	hazardous	trip	through	the	French	lines	to	Itzehoe	in
early	November.	The	bulk,	however,	was	stored	in	caches	at	William’s	country
houses.	According	to	a	meticulous	list	drawn	up	by	the	Elector	himself,	twenty
four	chests—containing	not	only	securities	and	coupons	but	also	accounts,
silverware	and	clothes—were	hidden	under	the	stairs	of	the	north	wing	of	the
Wilhelmshöhe,	while	another	twenty-four,	including	important	War	Chest
papers,	were	concealed	in	another	part	of	the	palace.	In	the	cellar	of	the	nearby
Löwenburg	were	hidden	a	further	twenty-four	chests,	including	securities
belonging	to	the	Elector’s	mistress,	official	papers,	porcelain	and	clothes.
Finally,	at	his	hunting	lodge	at	Sababurg,	there	were	forty-seven	chests,	most	of
them	filled	with	silverware.	Most	of	this	would	in	fact	have	been	lost	to	the
French—who	quickly	managed	to	obtain	an	inventory	of	the	Elector’s	silver—
had	it	not	proved	possible	to	strike	a	deal	with	Lagrange.	In	return	for	a	bribe	of
260,000	francs	(modest	under	the	circumstances)	he	agreed	to	allow	forty-two	of
the	chests	to	be	spirited	away;	the	rest	were	confiscated.	Accordingly,	on	the
night	of	November	8,	one	of	the	Elector’s	officers	led	a	convoy	of	carts	with	the
freed	chests	to	Hof	Stölzingen,	where	they	were	divided	up.	War	Councillor
Lennep	took	some	of	the	most	important	documents	(including	papers	relating	to
the	Elector’s	London	investments)	back	to	Kassel;	ten	chests	were	deposited
with	the	Münden	firm	of	Thorbecke,	of	which	two	were	sent	on	to	Schleswig
and	the	rest	to	Eisenach;	and	nineteen	were	smuggled	into	Frankfurt	and	left	in
the	hands	of	the	bankers	Preye	&	Jordis.
By	this	time,	however,	Lagrange	had	realised	that	he	had	undercharged	the
Elector’s	men.	Having	managed	to	recapture	some	of	the	chests	he	had
previously	released,	he	now	demanded	more	money.	Eventually,	an	agreement
was	reached:	in	return	for	a	second,	rather	larger	payment,	Lagrange	promised	to
understate	the	total	value	of	the	Elector’s	assets.	A	list	was	drawn	up	totalling
19.8	million	gulden	(composed	mainly	of	the	larger	loans	to	other	German
princes),	and	this	became	the	
“official”	French	inventory.	All	documents	relating
to	the	Elector’s	other	assets—an	estimated	27	million	gulden—were	then	handed
over	to	Buderus.	Some	of	these	were	sent	to	the	Elector	at	Schleswig.	Some
were	kept	by	Buderus	himself.	The	rest,	mostly	routine	papers	from	the	War
Chest	and	Privy	Purse,	were	packed	into	four	chests.	It	was	these	four	chests

--- Page 103 ---
which	were	given	to	Mayer	Amschel.	A	few	others	containing	medals	and	a	few
bonds	were	also	temporarily	left	in	his	care	in	Hamburg	when	the	Elector	left
Itzehoe	for	Austrian	territory	in	the	summer	of	the	following	year.
5
	But	that	was
all.
Yet	this	prosaic	account	understates	Rothschild’s	importance	to	the	exiled
Elector.	For	one	thing,	William	still	had	need	of	a	skilled	stockbroker	and
investment	adviser.	Having	managed	to	hang	on	to	assets	worth	27	million
gulden,	his	investment	income	remained	substantial,	even	after	the	extra	costs
imposed	by	exile.	(According	to	Berghoeffer’s	figures,	the	surplus	was
something	like	740,000	gulden	a	year.)	Part	of	Mayer	Amschel’s	role	in	this
period	was	to	collect	this	income	from	the	various	borrowers	concerned.	In
addition,	he	had	to	reinvest	it	in	new	loans.	For	example,	he	arranged	a	loan	of
100,000	gulden	to	the	Hanau	Treasury	and	a	large	loan	to	Graf	Karl	von	Hahn	zu
Remplin	(the	profligate	“Theatergraf,”	who	was	shortly	afterwards	made	a	ward
of	court	by	his	family).	He	looked	after	a	current	account	for	money	the	Elector
had	entrusted	to	Buderus.	On	one	occasion,	at	Buderus’s	suggestion,	he	also
borrowed	money	from	the	Elector	himself.	He	repurchased	a	substantial	part	of
the	Elector’s	coin	collection,	which	had	been	sold	off	and	dispersed,	as	well	as
fourteen	cases	of	wine	which	had	been	stolen	from	the	Hanau	cellars.	He
handled	various	transfers	of	money	which	the	Elector	had	to	make	for	military
and	diplomatic	purposes:	payments	to	Hessian	prisoners-of-war	held	by	the
French,	to	the	Machiavellian	Prince	Wittgenstein,	who	had	offered	his
diplomatic	services,	as	well	as	to	Russia	and	Prussia	in	1813.	He	lent	around
160,000	gulden	to	the	Elector’s	son	in	Berlin.	He	looked	after	the	finances	of	the
Elector’s	mistress,	Gräfin	von	Schlotheim.	He	even	sold	the	Elector	a	diamond
ring.
Much	of	this	was	trivial,	admittedly,	and	a	good	deal	of	it	was	unprofitable.	A
lot	of	time	was	wasted	in	1809	and	1810	on	an	abortive	scheme	to	assist	the
depleted	Austrian	Treasury	by	transferring	some	of	William’s	assets—with	a
nominal	value	of	over	10	million	gulden—to	the	Emperor.	But	there	was	one
service	performed	by	the	Rothschilds	for	William	which	made	all	the	rest
worthwhile:	the	management	of	his	English	investments.	Nathan	later	claimed
that	“The	Prince	of	Hesse-Cassel	.	.	.	gave	my	father	his	money;	there	was	no
time	to	be	lost;	he	sent	it	to	me.	I	had	600,000£	arrive	unexpectedly	by	the	post;
and	I	put	it	to	such	good	use,	that	the	prince	made	me	a	present	of	all	his	wine
and	his	linen.”	This	has	a	superficial	plausibility:	one	of	the	most	important
financial	consequences	of	the	French	wars	was	a	large	migration	of	capital	from

--- Page 104 ---
the	continent	to	London.	As	with	the	story	of	the	treasure,	however,	the	reality
was	rather	more	complex.
At	the	start	of	his	time	in	exile,	William	already	had	a	very	substantial	English
portfolio,	primarily	annuities	with	a	nominal	value	of	£635,400	paying	interest
of	£20,426	a	year.	In	addition,	he	was	owed	a	considerable	sum—around
£200,000—by	the	Prince	of	Wales	and	his	brothers	(though	they	were
characteristically	in	arrears	with	their	interest	payments).	As	an	ally	of	the
crown,	he	also	received	subsidies	totalling	£100,150	between	1807	and	1810.
6
The	critical	question	was	what	
should	be	done	with	the	interest	payments	and
subsidies	as	they	were	paid	to	William’s	current	account	with	Van	Notten.	As
early	as	1807—in	other	words,	some	time	before	his	move	from	Manchester	to
London—Nathan	approached	William’s	envoy	in	London,	Lorentz,	with
suggestions	as	to	how	the	money	might	be	invested,	but	he	was	rebuffed	at	the
Elector’s	express	instruction.
7
	It	was	not	until	two	years	later,	once	again	at	the
prompting	of	Buderus,	that	Mayer	Amschel	was	instructed	to	purchase	3	per
cent	consols	(redeemable	state	annuities,	or	what	would	now	be	called	gilt-edged
securities)	with	a	face	value	of	£150,000	at	73.5	(that	is,	at	73.5	per	cent	of	their
face	value	or	price	at	redemption).	It	was	to	be	the	first	of	no	fewer	than	nine
such	purchases	up	until	the	end	of	1813,	totalling	£664,850.	This	was	the	money
to	which	Nathan	later	alluded	in	his	conversation	with	Buxton.	His	brother	Carl
was	also	alluding	to	it	when	he	observed	in	1814	that	“the	Old	Man”—mean	ing
William—had	“made	our	fortune.	If	Nathan	had	not	had	the	Elector’s	£300,000
[
sic
]	in	hand	he	would	have	got	nowhere.”
How	could	such	purchases	of	consols	on	someone	else’s	behalf	have	been	so
vital	to	the	Rothschilds?	The	answer	lies	in	the	way	these	investments	were
carried	out.	At	first	sight,	there	was	not	a	great	deal	to	be	made	from	this
business,	as	Mayer	Amschel	charged	only	one-eighth	of	a	per	cent	brokerage	on
each	purchase.	On	closer	inspection,	however,	much	more	stood	to	be	made.
William	did	not	actually	put	up	all	the	cash	at	once	for	each	purchase;	it	was	the
Rothschilds	who	effectively	bought	the	consols,	albeit	on	his	behalf,	and	with
money	they	had	largely	borrowed.	If	they	had	wished,	they	could	have	paid	only
a	fraction	of	the	market	price,	postponing	full	payment	until	a	future	settlement
date.	But	this	would	have	involved	a	double	speculation:	on	the	price	of	the
consols	and	on	the	gulden-sterling	exchange	rate.	Mayer	Amschel	preferred	not
to	do	this.	He	was	content	to	derive	advantage	from	the	difference	between	the
price	and	the	exchange	rate	agreed	with	William,	and	the	actual	price	and
exchange	rate	paid	by	his	son	in	London.	For	the	first	three	purchases,	the

--- Page 105 ---
difference	in	price	was	of	the	order	of	2	per	cent,	reflecting	the	fact	that,	at	this
low	ebb	in	Britain’s	campaign	against	Napoleon,	consols	were	falling.	It	is
probable	(though	impossible	to	prove)	that	Mayer	Amschel	was	also	deriving
some	benefit	from	differences	in	the	exchange	rate.
The	Elector	probably	suspected	what	was	going	on:	when	consols	reached	a
low	of	62.5	in	the	summer	of	1811,	he	called	a	halt	to	new	purchases	and	ceased
remitting	money	to	cover	previous	purchases	until	May	of	the	following	year.
But	this	probably	suited	the	Rothschilds	well.	For	the	consols	remained
registered	in	Nathan’s	name	until	they	were	fully	paid	for	by	William.	That
meant,	for	example,	that	even	as	late	as	March	1813	consols	with	a	face	value	of
£121,000	were	notionally	Nathan’s.	Of	course,	they	had	largely	been	bought
with	borrowed	money,	and,	from	the	moment	the	Elector’s	remittances	arrived
until	the	stocks	were	formally	transferred	to	him	or	his	agents,	the	Rothschilds
also	had	to	pay	interest.	On	the	other	hand,	a	certain	latitude	was	possible,	given
the	difficulty	of	getting	certificates	of	ownership	from	London	to	the	Elector	in
Prague.
8
	Whatever	profits	Nathan	was	able	to	make	on	the	market	price	and	the
exchange	rate,	purchases	of	more	than	£600,000	worth	of	consols	and	the	actual
possession	of	over	£100,000	signalled	the	advent	of	a	new	financial	force	in	the
City	of	London.	In	this	sense,	as	Carl	later	noted,	it	gave	Nathan	a	kind	of
“security”—the	impression	of	capital	resource	in	excess	of	what	the	family
actually	had.	Amschel	spelt	out	the	significance	of	this	
in	a	letter	to	his	brothers
in	1818:	“The	good	Nathan	would	have	been	unable	to	draw	during	the	war	bills
to	the	amount	of	£132,000	and	to	handle	all	the	businesses	if	.	.	.	we	had	not
obtained	for	him	in	Prague	the	big	deal	of	the	Elector’s	stocks,	which	he	handled
.	.	.	[U]p	to	then	Nathan	did	not	even	know	what	stocks	looked	like.”	In	effect,
the	war	had	allowed	the	Rothschilds	to	make	a	part	of	William’s	financial
strength	their	own.
On	the	other	hand,	the	price	of	that	security	was	a	high	level	of	insecurity	on
the	continent.	For	the	risks	the	Rothschilds	ran	in	serving	William	were	real.	The
French	authorities	were	in	earnest	about	tracking	down	the	Elector’s	wealth	and
they	were	prepared	to	use	all	the	means	at	their	disposal	to	do	so.	Under	the
Berlin	Convention	of	1808,	for	example,	Napoleon	extended	a	tempting	offer	to
the	Elector’s	numerous	debtors,	inviting	them	to	settle	with	the	French
authorities	instead	of	the	Elector	in	return	for	reductions	in	their	debts.	More
alarmingly,	the	departure	of	General	Lagrange	put	paid	to	the	deal	which	had
been	struck	with	him.	Mayer	Amschel’s	offices	were	searched	by	the	French
police,	as	were	those	of	Preye	&	Jordis.	It	was	probably	at	this	time	that	the

--- Page 106 ---
contents	of	the	four	chests	in	Mayer	Amschel’s	possession	were	concealed	in	the
secret	cellar	described	above.	In	August	1808	Salomon	was	interrogated	by	a
French	police	official,	as	was	a	representative	of	another	bank	suspected	of
acting	for	William,	and	the	following	month	Buderus	and	Lennep	were	briefly
arrested.	The	same	happened	in	the	summer	of	the	following	year,	in	the	wake	of
a	minor	anti-French	revolt.	The	Special	Commissioner	of	Police	in	Westphalia—
a	man	named	Savagner—had	Buderus	and	Lennep	arrested	again	and	then,
acting	on	information	supplied	by	one	of	the	Rothschilds’	business	rivals,
proceeded	with	a	senior	Frankfurt	police	officer	to	Mayer	Amschel’s	office.
There	followed	a	bizarre	interrogation	in	which	the	French	attempted	to	get
Mayer	Amschel	to	admit	to	having	supplied	money	on	William’s	behalf	to	the
instigators	of	the	recent	revolt.
Savagner	was	undeniably	well	informed.	He	knew	about	Mayer	Amschel’s
visits	to	Hamburg	and	Itzehoe	in	1807—where	he	had	“spent	hours	with	[the
Elector]	in	his	office,	walking	in	his	garden	and	conversing	with	him.”	He	also
knew	about	his	dealings	with	Buderus.	But	Mayer	Amschel	was	apologetic:
“Because	of	a	painful	illness	from	which	he	had	suffered	for	years,	he	had
developed	a	short	memory.”	Yes,	he	had	been	in	Hamburg,	but	only	on	account
of	some	goods	which	had	erroneously	been	impounded	as	contraband.	Yes,	he
knew	Buderus	and	Lennep,	but	he	had	“never	trusted	them,	as	neither	of	them
had	ever	sincerely	been	his	friends,	merely	appearing	to	be	in	the	world’s	eyes.”
Yes,	he	had	been	the	Elector’s	court	agent	and	had	in	the	past	made	loans	on	his
behalf	to	Denmark—or	was	it	Emden?	Far	from	relaying	money	to	Buderus,	he
had	received	20,000	gulden	from	him,	from	which	he	had	made	various
payments,	though	to	whom	he	could	not	recollect.	The	next	day,	Savagner	tried
again	with	Salomon,	the	fifteen-year-old	Jacob,	Salomon’s	wife,	Amschel’s	wife
and	even	Mayer	Amschel’s	wife	Gutle.	Each	stonewalled	in	turn.	Gutle	in
particular	was	the	embodiment	of	feminine	innocence:	“She	knew	about	nothing
at	all,	she	was	at	home	throughout	the	year	and	had	nothing	whatever	to	do	with
business.	She	had	never	seen	[Buderus],	she	only	concerned	herself	with	her
housework.”	In	the	end,	Savagner	seems	to	have	admitted	defeat	and,	like	most
Napoleonic	officials	the	Rothschilds	encountered,	settled	for	a	small	“loan.”
Matters	only	eased	in	1810	when	Frankfurt	was	transformed	into	a	
grand	duchy
under	the	direct	jurisdiction	of	Baron	Karl	Theodor	Anton	von	Dalberg,
erstwhile	Archbishop	of	Mainz	and,	since	1806,	Prince-Primate	of	the	Rhenish
Confederation.
Mayer	Amschel	had	already	begun	to	ingratiate	himself	with	Dalberg	some

--- Page 107 ---
three	years	before	by	offering	the	inevitable	loan.	He	now	proceeded	to	facilitate
a	payment	of	440,000	gulden	to	secure	the	emancipation	of	the	Frankfurt	Jews
by	discounting	bonds	worth	a	total	of	290,000	gulden	and	to	advance	Dalberg
80,000	gulden	to	finance	his	journey	to	Paris	for	the	baptism	of	Napoleon’s	son.
Indeed,	Mayer	Amschel	was	soon	formally	acting	as	Dalberg’s	“court	banker,”
assisting	him	in	the	speculative	purchases	of	land	he	undertook	with	the	money
paid	by	the	Frankfurt	Jews.	It	was	a	sign	of	the	esteem	in	which	Dalberg	came	to
hold	Mayer	Amschel	that	he	appointed	him	to	the	electoral	college	of	the	new
département	of	Hanau,	along	with	such	eminent	Gentiles	as	Simon	Moritz	von
Bethmann.	Whether	he	was	aware	how	far	Mayer	Amschel	continued
simultaneously	to	serve	the	man	whose	most	fervent	wish	was	to	oust	him	and
his	French	patrons	from	Hesse-Kassel	is	not	known.	There	is	a	startling
symmetry	in	the	fact	that,	only	a	few	years	previously,	Mayer	Amschel	had	been
arranging	payments	of	some	620,000	gulden	from	the	Elector	to	Austria,	to	pay
for	troops	and	horses	in	the	1809	campaign	against	France.	Shortly	after	Mayer
Amschel’s	death,	his	son	Amschel	was	advancing	255,000	gulden	to	Dalberg,
partly	in	order	to	purchase	horses	for	the	French	army!
It	is	possible,	of	course,	that	Mayer	Amschel—like	Buderus,	who	also
accepted	an	official	appointment	by	Dalberg—no	longer	expected	William	to	be
restored	to	his	estates.	But	if	so,	he	never	wrote	him	off	completely.	He	simply
backed	both	sides.	Such	a	strategy	has	obvious	attractions,	and	it	was	to	become
a	frequent	Rothschild	gambit	in	the	decades	ahead.	However,	the	double	agent
always	runs	the	risk	of	forfeiting	the	trust	of	both	sides	and	ending	up	the	loser,
whichever	wins.	For	this	reason,	it	is	not	surprising	that	during	the	years	of	the
Elector’s	exile	Mayer	Amschel	developed	a	penchant	for	secrecy—another	of
his	most	enduring	bequests	to	later	generations.	At	first,	he	had	been	blasé.	He
and	his	son	Carl	made	numerous	trips	to	the	vicinity	of	Itzehoe	in	the	first
months	of	the	Elector’s	exile—indeed,	they	established	a	permanent	office	for
the	purpose	in	Hamburg—and	corresponded	regularly	and	openly	with	one	of
William’s	most	senior	officials,	Knatz.	As	we	have	seen,	this	did	not	go
unnoticed	by	the	French	police,	and	Mayer	Amschel	quickly	came	to	appreciate
that	“these	days	one	has	to	set	to	work	carefully.”	By	the	middle	of	1808
correspondence	between	the	Rothschilds	and	the	Elector’s	officials,	much	of
which	was	relayed	via	Buderus	and	Lawätz,	was	being	written	in	a	crude	code.
Buderus	was	referred	to	as	“Baron	von	Waldschmidt,”	Knatz	as	“Johann	Weber,”
Mayer	Amschel	as	“Peter	Arnoldi”	or	“Arnold”	and	William	himself,	variously,
as	“Herr	von	Goldstein,”	“Johannes	Adler”	or	“the	Principal.”	The	Elector’s

--- Page 108 ---
English	investments	were	known	as	“stock	fish”	(a	pun	on	the	German	for	cod,
Stockfisch
).	For	additional	security—“for	the	more	care	that	you	take,	the	better
it	is”—letters	were	sent	not	to	Mayer	Amschel	but	to	Juda	Sichel,	whose	son
Bernhard	had	married	Isabella	Rothschild	in	1802.	When	Carl	and	Amschel
travelled	to	see	the	Elector	in	Prague,	following	his	flight	south	from	Denmark,
correspondence	was	hidden	in	specially	fitted	secret	compartments.	Sometimes
the	Rothschilds	even	took	the	precaution	of	transliterating	incriminating	letters
into	Hebrew	characters.	And	it	
seems	highly	probable	that	two	sets	of	books
were	kept	in	this	period,	one	complete,	the	other	specially	doctored	for	the
consumption	of	the	authorities.	Such	precautions	were	justified;	in	addition	to
the	searches	and	interrogations	described	above,	the	French	police	succeeded	in
intercepting	at	least	one	letter	in	1811.
In	Austrian	territory	too,	Rothschild	moves	were	monitored	by	the	police.
There	was	less	reason	to	fear	the	Austrian	authorities,	of	course,	but	there	was	no
guarantee	that	relations	between	William	and	the	Emperor	would	remain
friendly.	Indeed,	after	the	French	victory	over	Austria	at	Wagram,	there	was	a
strong	likelihood	that	the	Elector	would	be	forced	once	again	to	move	on.	Nor
can	the	failure	of	their	financial	discussions	have	endeared	him	to	the	authorities
in	Vienna.	For	this	reason,	the	Rothschilds	continued	to	operate	behind	a	veil	of
secrecy	even	in	Prague,	leading	the	police	to	draw	somewhat	exaggerated
inferences	about	their	political	role:
[T]his	Jew	[Amschel]	is	at	the	head	of	an	important	propaganda	scheme	in
favour	of	the	Elector,	whose	branches	extend	throughout	the	former	Hessian
territories	.	.	.	These	suppositions	are	based	on	facts:	whenever	I	enter	the
Elector’s	quarters,	I	always	find	Rotschild	[
sic
]	there,	and	generally	in	the
company	of	Army	Councillor	Schminke	and	War	Secretary	Knatz,	and	they	go
into	their	own	rooms	and	Rotschild	generally	has	papers	with	him.	We	may
assume	that	their	aims	are	in	no	sense	hostile	to	Austria,	since	the	Elector	is
exceedingly	anxious	to	recover	the	possession	of	his	Electorate,	so	that	it	is
scarcely	open	to	question	that	the	organisations	and	associations,	whose	guiding
spirit	Rotschild	probably	is,	are	entirely	concerned	with	the	popular	reactions
and	the	other	measures	to	be	adopted	if	Austria	should	have	the	good	fortune	to
make	any	progress	against	France	and	Germany.	Owing	to	his	extensive
commercial	connections	it	is	probable	that	he	can	ascertain	this	more	easily	than
anybody	else,	and	can	also	conceal	his	machinations	under	the	cloak	of	business.
Yet	for	all	the	risks	they	took	on	his	behalf,	the	Rothschilds	were	never	wholly

--- Page 109 ---
trusted	by	William.	No	part	of	the	myth	of	the	hidden	treasure	is	more	at
variance	with	the	truth	than	the	idea	that	he	was	grateful	to	Mayer	Amschel	for
his	efforts	on	his	behalf.	On	the	contrary,	Mayer	Amschel	had	to	endure	repeated
bouts	of	paranoia	on	the	Elector’s	part.	William’s	first	concern	was	that	Mayer
Amschel	might	betray	him	to	the	French.	Later,	he	began	to	worry	that	his	agent
had	his	hand	in	the	till,	suspicions	which	were	only	encouraged	by	envious
rivals.	He	accused	Mayer	Amschel	of	swindling	him	of	the	interest	on	his
English	stocks.	He	accused	him	of	deliberately	hanging	on	to	the	valuables
which	had	been	left	in	his	care	at	Hamburg.	Throughout	this	time,	Mayer
Amschel	had	to	rely	on	Buderus	to	reassure	the	Elector.	Buderus	was	unstinting
in	his	praise.	His	reasons	for	entrusting	so	much	business	to	Mayer	Amschel
were,	he	told	William,
the	most	punctual	payment	which	one	can	expect	of	him,	the	certainty	that	he
always	reckons	by	the	official	exchange	rate	on	the	day	of	a	transaction,	the
conviction	that	he	never	discloses	Your	Majesty’s	transactions	to	anyone,	as	he
has	handled	the	realisation	[of	your	assets]	with	such	care	that	French	officials
who	were	sent	to	interrogate	him	to	find	out	whether	he	had	received	English
money	on	Your	Majesty’s	behalf,	could	find	no	trace	of	the	money	in	the	books
which	were	laid	before	them.
The	irony,	however,	is	that	Buderus’s	assurances	were	themselves	far	from
disinterested.	For,	unbeknown	to	the	Elector,	he	had	entered	into	an	agreement
with	Mayer	Amschel	which	effectively	made	him	a	sleeping	partner	in	the
Rothschild	firm.	In	return	for	investing	20,000	gulden—the	sum	which	Mayer
Amschel	admitted	to	having	received	when	questioned	by	Savagner—Buderus
promised	“to	advise	that	firm	in	all	business	matters	to	the	best	of	his	ability	and
to	advance	its	interests	as	far	as	he	may	find	practicable.”	In	the	light	of	this—to
say	nothing	of	the	deals	struck	by	Mayer	Amschel	with	the	French	authorities
and	with	Dalberg—the	Elector’s	mistrust	begins	to	look	rather	less	like	paranoia.
As	William	came	to	realise,	the	Rothschilds’	skill	at	forging	new	business
relationships	was	liberating	them	from	their	early	dependence	on	him.	When,	in
May	1812,	he	requested	that	one	of	Mayer	Amschel’s	sons	move	to	Prague	to	act
as	a	kind	of	court	agent	in	exile,	he	was	politely	but	firmly	rebuffed.
It	is	therefore	something	of	an	exaggeration	to	say,	as	Carl	did,	that	“the	old
man”	had	made	their	fortune.	In	1797	Mayer	Amschel’s	capital	had	been
108,504	gulden	(around	£10,000).	Ten	years	later	the	balance	sheet	showed	a
total	capital	of	514,500	gulden	(around	£50,000).
9
	It	seems	unlikely	that	the

--- Page 110 ---
business	he	did	with	William	in	this	period	accounted	for	as	big	a	share	of	this
increase	as	the	import-export	business	between	Frankfurt	and	Manchester.	By
1810,	to	be	sure,	the	firm’s	capital	had	risen	to	800,000	gulden	(around	£80,000)
and	a	substantial	part	of	this	increase	probably	was	due	to	the	income	generated
by	managing	William’s	portfolio.	But	the	real	significance	of	the	Elector’s
treasure,	as	both	Carl	and	Amschel	implicitly	acknowledged,	was	that	it	helped
Nathan	to	make	the	transition	from	Manchester	merchant	to	London	banker.
Once	this	was	achieved,	the	Rothschilds	needed	“the	Old	Man”	less.
	
Mayer	Amschel’s	Legacy
A	letter	Buderus	wrote	to	William	at	around	this	time	provides	a	neat	summary
of	the	firm’s	radius	of	activity	in	the	last	months	of	its	founder’s	life:
Their	father	is	old	and	ailing.	His	eldest	son	Amschel	Mayer,	and	his	second	son
Salomon,	who	is	delicate,	are	indispensable	to	him	in	his	extensive	operations.
The	third	[
sic
]	son,	Carl,	is	almost	continually	engaged	in	travelling	in	the
service	of	your	Electoral	Highness,	while	the	fourth	[
sic
]	son,	Nathan,	is	very
usefully	established	in	London	and	the	youngest,	James,	spends	his	time
between	London	and	Paris.
By	this	stage,	power	in	the	firm	had	effectively	passed	from	Mayer	Amschel	to
his	five	sons.	Only	a	few	years	before,	however,	the	old	man	had	still	been
playing	the	role	of	
Herr	im	Haus
.	As	we	have	seen,	even	the	mercurial	Nathan,
far	away	in	England,	was	still	having	to	do	as	he	was	told	as	late	as	1805.	His
brothers	were	treated	even	more	like	employees:
Amschel	writes	that	Kalman	[Carl]	would	like	to	come	to	you,	but	what	is	the
point	of	that?	.	.	.	I	still	need	to	have	Kalman	with	me	in	Frankfurt	for	the
moment	and	he	would	be	much	less	use	with	you	.	.	.	He	is	keen	to	go	to
London.	But	I	don’t	think	it	sensible	from	the	point	of	view	of	our	house,	as
Salomon	has	hard	work	to	do	cashing	in	and	paying	out	bills.	He	has	the
obligations	to	deal	with	too	.	.	.	[If	Kalman	goes]	then	
all	my	commodity
business	will	have	to	be	done	through	Seligmann	and	Abraham	Schnapper,	and
Mayer	Schnapper	his	son,	because	although	Jakob	[James]	is	already	in	the
office	he	has	only	just	had	his	bar	mitz	vah.	So	it	really	is	necessary	for	Kalman
to	stay	with	us.	He	really	wants	to	go	to	London	[and]	if	you	really	need	him
then	I	will	write	him	off.	But	it	is	stupid	not	to	leave	Kalman	here	for	a	few	more
years	until	Jakob	has	grown	up.	Don’t	write	to	Kalman	that	I	said	this	to	you	.	.	.

--- Page 111 ---
Furthermore,	my	dear	son	Nathan,	when	you	are	writing	to	my	son	Kalman,	I
advise	you	to	praise	him	a	lot.	With	God’s	help	he	is	a	very	clever	man	for	his
age,	though	he	is	rather	too	bold	.	.	.	He	really	wants	to	come	to	you	but	I	really
don’t	want	this	dear	boy,	may	he	live	to	be	a	hundred	years	old,	crossing	the	sea
for	just	a	three-week	trip	and	we	cannot	do	without	him	for	long[er]	because	as	I
told	you	Amschel	has	business	in	Kassel.	Much	as	I	would	like	my	son	Kalman
to	travel	to	London	for	three	weeks	it	would	end	up	being	six	months,	and	it	is
simply	not	possible	to	teach	conceited	outsiders	how	to	run	my	indigo	business.
Mayer	Amschel	prevailed	and	Carl	stayed;	it	may	have	been	a	sop	to	Nathan	that
James	was	sent	to	join	him	for	a	spell	three	years	later.
As	this	letter	also	shows,	Mayer	Amschel’s	in-laws,	the	Schnappers,	were	now
involved	in	the	business;	so	too	were	the	Sichels,	into	which	family	Isabella	had
married,	and	the	Beyfus	brothers,	Seligmann	and	Mayer,	who	married	Babette
and	Julie	respectively	in	1808	and	1811.	He	was	also	well	aware	of	Nathan’s
work	in	partnership	with	Rindskopf	and	his	own	father-in-law	Levi	Barent
Cohen.	But	from	the	outset,	Mayer	Amschel	kept	his	in-laws	at	one	remove	from
the	management	of	the	firm:	the	reference	to	the	Schnappers	as	“outsiders”	is
revealing.	In	the	same	letter	to	Nathan,	he	asked	a	characteristic	question:	“Dear
Nathan,	do	our	letters	come	directly	into	your	hands	alone,	so	that	one	can	write
what	one	wants,	or	do	you	read	our	letters	to	your	whole	family	[meaning
Nathan’s	in-laws,	the	Cohens]?	Let	me	know.”	Even	at	this	early	stage,	Mayer
Amschel	had	formulated	a	rule	which	was	to	be	followed	strictly	for	more	than	a
century:	his	male	descendants	were,	as	far	as	the	running	of	the	firm	was
concerned,	the	inner	circle.	In	practice,	this	meant	a	distinction	between	family
or	private	correspondence—almost	always	written	in	Hebrew	characters—and
business	correspondence,	usually	written	in	German,	French	or	English	by
clerks.	Mayer	Amschel	more	than	once	had	to	reprimand	Nathan	for	forgetting
this	distinction:	“I	repeat	for	the	last	time	that	your	Hebrew	written	letters	may
be	good	enough	for	family	purposes,	but	for	account	and	business	matters	you
have	to	write	in	German,	French,	or	English;	I	cannot	give	to	my	clerks	in	the
office	your	muddled	Jewish	letters	mixed	with	family	news,	if	they	are	to	keep
good	books—accordingly,	a	good	deal	of	confusion	arises.”	For	the	historian,	of
course,	it	is	precisely	these	letters—repetitive	and	unstructured	though	they	often
were—which	have	by	far	the	greater	value.
The	transition	of	the	family	business	into	“Mayer	Amschel	Rothschild	&
Sons”	happened	in	September	1810,	when	he	and	three	of	his	sons—Amschel,
Salomon	and	Carl—issued	a	printed	circular	announcing	that	they	would

--- Page 112 ---
henceforth	act	as	partners	(
wirkliche	Theilhaber
)	in	a	new	firm	(
Gesellschaft
).
When	members	of	the	family	had	been	interrogated	by	Savagner	the	year	before,
Mayer	Amschel	was	still	
calling	himself	the	sole	proprietor	(
Inhaber
)	of	the
firm,	while	his	sons	were	merely	his	“assistants”	(
Gehülfen
).	However,	he	may
have	been	lying	in	order	to	protect	them	in	case	Savagner	decided	to	prosecute
the	firm.	Earlier	in	the	year	it	had	been	Amschel,	Salomon	and	Carl	who	had
negotiated	the	purchase	of	a	vacant	lot	in	the	Judengasse	(as	reconstruction	work
at	last	began)	in	order	to	build	a	proper	office	for	the	firm.	And	when	a	formal
legal	partnership	contract	was	drawn	up	in	September	1810,	its	preamble
explicitly	stated	that	“a	trading	company	already	existed”	in	which	Mayer
Amschel,	Amschel	and	Salomon	were	the	“associates.”	The	principal	function	of
the	1810	agreement	was	to	make	Carl	a	partner,	giving	him	a	30,000	gulden
share	of	the	total	capital	of	800,000	compared	with	Mayer	Amschel’s	370,000,
Amschel’s	185,000	and	Salomon’s	185,000;	and	to	guarantee	that	James	would
become	a	partner	(also	with	a	share	worth	30,000	gulden)	when	he	attained	his
majority.
It	was	not	only	in	terms	of	capital	that	Mayer	Amschel	remained	
primus	inter
pares
:	he	alone	had	the	right	to	withdraw	his	capital	from	the	firm	during	the
period	of	the	agreement;	he	alone	had	the	right	to	hire	and	fire	employees	of	the
firm;	and	his	unmarried	sons	could	marry	only	with	his	permission.	The
agreement	made	the	grounds	for	this	explicit.	It	was	Mayer	Amschel	who	had,
“through	the	industry	which	he	had	evinced	from	his	youth	onwards,	his
commercial	abilities	and	the	indefatigable	activity	which	he	had	maintained	into
his	old	age,	laid	the	basis	for	the	prosperity	of	the	firm,	and	thereby	established
the	worldly	fortune	of	his	children.”
In	other	respects,	however,	the	agreement	would	act	as	a	model	for	future
agreements	between	the	brothers	and	their	descendants	for	most	of	the
nineteenth	century.	Profits	were	divided	in	proportion	to	capital	shares,	no
partner	was	to	engage	in	business	independently	of	the	others	and	the	agreement
was	to	run	for	a	fixed	period	of	years	(in	this	case,	ten).	The	most	remarkable
clause	in	the	agreement	stated	what	would	happen	were	one	of	the	partners	to
die.	Each	solemnly	renounced	the	rights	of	his	wife,	children	or	their	guardians
to	contest	in	any	way	the	amount	of	money	agreed	by	the	surviving	partners	to
be	the	deceased’s	share	of	the	capital.	Specifically,	his	widow	and	heirs	were	to
be	denied	any	access	to	the	firm’s	books	and	correspondence.	This	was	the	first
formal	statement	of	that	distinctive	and	enduring	rule	which	effectively	excluded
Rothschild	women—born	Rothschilds	as	well	as	those	who	married	into	the

--- Page 113 ---
family—from	the	core	of	the	business:	the	hallowed	ledgers	and	letters.
The	death	of	a	partner	was,	of	course,	no	longer	a	remote	possibility.	Not	only
was	Mayer	Amschel	now	an	old	man—he	was	sixty-six	or	sixty-seven	when	the
1810	agreement	was	signed—he	was	also	a	sick	man.	He	had	been	seriously	ill
two	years	before,	possibly	with	a	rectal	abscess	arising	from	chronic
haemorrhoids,	and,	although	an	operation	was	successfully	performed,	his	health
never	fully	recovered.	It	was	a	common	complaint	in	the	Judengasse,	whether
because	of	the	sedentary	lives	its	inhabitants	perforce	led,	or	because	of	a	genetic
defect	which	intermarriage—also	imposed	by	the	Stättigkeit—had	spread
through	the	street’s	500	families.	On	September	16,	1812,	he	was	taken	ill;	he
died	just	three	days	later.	But	even	as	he	lay	on	his	deathbed,	Mayer	Amschel
hastily	revised	his	will,	as	if	wishing	to	reinforce	the	message	conveyed	to	his
sons	in	the	1810	agreement.	The	new	will	pre-empted	the	agreement’s	provisions
by	withdrawing	just	190,000	
gulden	from	the	firm	as	his	notional	share	of	the
capital—obviously	a	substantial	understatement.	And	it	repeated	emphatically
the	rule	excluding	the	female	line	from	the	business:
I	hereby	decree	and	therefore	wish	that	my	daughters	and	sons-in-law	and	their
heirs	have	no	share	in	the	capital	of	the	firm	“Mayer	Amschel	Rothschild	&
Sons”	and	even	less	that	they	are	able	or	are	permitted	to	make	a	claim	against	it
for	whatever	reason.	Rather,	the	said	firm	shall	exclusively	belong	to	and	be
owned	by	my	sons.	None	of	my	daughters	and	their	heirs	therefore	has	any	right
or	claim	on	the	said	firm	and	I	would	never	be	able	to	forgive	a	child	of	mine
who,	against	this	my	paternal	will,	allowed	themselves	to	disturb	my	sons	in	the
peaceful	possession	of	their	business.
If	his	daughters	did	do	so,	they	would	forfeit	all	but	their	minimal	statutory
claims	as	heirs	under	the	Napoleonic	code.	The	distinction	between	sons	and
daughters	could	scarcely	have	been	more	strongly	expressed.
10
That	Mayer	Amschel’s	testament	was	so	strictly	adhered	to,	not	just	by	his
immediate	heirs	but	by	his	descendants	for	generations	to	come,	confirms	the
impression	given	by	those	letters	to	his	sons	which	have	survived.	Within	his
immediate	family	circle,	he	was	a	commanding	and	perhaps	also	intimidating
figure.	Interestingly,	this	is	not	how	he	was	remembered	by	the	rest	of	the	world.
To	Gentiles	who	had	dealings	with	him,	he	had	tended	to	conform	to	the
intelligent	but	deferential	stereotype	of	the	court	Jew.	It	should	be	stressed	that
modern	portrayals	of	Mayer	Amschel—especially	the	screen	performances	by
George	Arliss	and	Erich	Ponto—probably	exaggerated	the	“Jewishness”	of	his

--- Page 114 ---
appearance	and	manner,	the	former	sporting	a	long	beard	and	fez-like	hat,	the
latter	ringlets	and	a	skullcap.	On	the	other	hand,	the	most	commonly	reproduced
nineteenth-century	lithograph—of	a	rather	square-jawed	clean-shaven	man	in	a
neat	wig—was	the	product	of	an	artist’s	imagination.	One	contemporary	who
met	him	in	her	youth	remembered	“a	rather	big	man,	who	wore	a	round
unpowdered	wig	and	a	small	goatee	beard.”	Another	remembered	him	wearing
the	kind	of	hat	and	clothes	which	would	have	been	worn	by	a	Gentile	merchant
of	the	same	generation,	albeit	slightly	threadbare.
This	tallies	with	Mayer	Amschel’s	somewhat	ambiguous	reputation	within	the
Judengasse	as	relatively	orthodox	in	matters	of	religion,	but	progressively	more
and	more	liberal	in	matters	of	education	and	politics.	Mayer	Amschel	was	not
one	of	those	
maskilim
	who	were	inspired	by	the	Jewish	Enlightenment,	nor	did
his	attitudes	anticipate	the	later	Reform	movement	to	modernise	Judaism	as	a
religion;	but	nor	was	he	a	staunch	conservative.	Cohen’s	unauthorised	memoir
(published	shortly	after	his	death)	portrayed	him	as	the	personification	of	a	kind
of	middle	way	between	the	new	and	the	old—“proof	that	the	dogmas	of	the
Jewish	religion,	even	according	to	the	teachings	of	the	Talmud,	contain	nothing
which	conflicts	with	the	laws	of	morality.”	Rothschild	had	been	“a	zealous
believer	in	the	Talmud	and	chose	it	alone	as	the	guiding	principle	of	all	his
actions”;	indeed,	according	to	Cohen,	his	attitude	towards	religious	conservatism
had	been	“a	little	exaggerated.”	He	and	his	brother	Moses	(who	administered	the
community’s	poor-relief	fund	for	some	years)	were	active	members	of	the
Jewish	community.	But	Mayer	Amschel	was	also	a	“good	citizen”—a	significant
phrase,	as	we	shall	see.
This	is	evident	in	Mayer	Amschel’s	attitude	towards	charity.	As	noted	above,
he	and	his	brothers	were	conscientious	in	paying	their	tenth	to	the	poor	of	the
community.	Ludwig	Börne	remembered	the	crowd	of	beggars	who	used	to	lie	in
wait	for	Mayer	Amschel	as	he	walked	through	the	street,	and	the	patience	with
which	he	distributed	alms.	Yet	he	was	less	conventional	in	not	confining	his
charity	to	the	Jewish	community.	Cohen	recalled	an	occasion	when	a	street-
urchin	had	shouted	“Jew!”	at	him.	Mayer	Amschel
calmly	reached	into	his	purse	and	gave	the	needy	youth	some	money	with	the
request	that	he	might	often	repeat	what	he	had	said.	No	one	could	have	been
happier	to	oblige.	He	took	what	he	was	offered	and	cried	at	the	top	of	his	voice:
“Jew!	Jew!”	Several	other	youths	came	up	and	mockingly	joined	in.	Rothschild
listened	with	evident	pleasure,	pronouncing	the	Hebrew	blessing:	“Praise	be	to
Him,	who	gave	the	laws	to	His	people	of	Israel!”

--- Page 115 ---
In	his	will	too	he	bequeathed	100	gulden	to	“three	praiseworthy,	charitable
Christian	foundations.”	Even	his	charitable	work	within	the	Jewish	community
became	increasingly	secular	in	its	orientation.	In	1804	he	played	a	leading	role	in
establishing	a	new	school	for	poorer	Jewish	children—the	Philanthropin—the
curriculum	of	which	had	a	thoroughly	secular	flavour.	This	seems	to	have
reflected	the	influence	of	his	book-keeper	Geisenheimer	and	of	the	tutor	he
employed	for	his	own	children,	Michael	Hess,	a	follower	of	Moses	Mendelssohn
who	later	became	the	school’s	headmaster.	It	may	also	have	been	inspired	by	his
younger	sons,	at	least	one	of	whom	(Salomon)	was	a	member	of	the	same
masonic	lodge	as	Geisenheimer.
11
	The	important	point	is	that	Mayer	Amschel
continued	to	favour	a	communal	basis	for	education	at	a	time	when	an	increasing
number	of	Jewish	families	were	sending	their	children	to	Gentile	schools	outside
the	ghetto.	Ludwig	Börne	was	one	of	those	who	rebelled	against	the	relatively
conservative	atmosphere	of	the	Frankfurt	ghetto,	ultimately	converting	to
Christianity	rather	than	endure	discrimination.	But,	as	Heine	later	recalled,	he
could	not	help	admiring	the	unaffected	piety	of	the	Rothschild	household.
Passing	the	old	family	home	in	the	Judengasse	in	1827,	he	noticed	nostalgically
that	Mayer	Amschel’s	widow	Gutle	had	decorated	its	windows	with	white
curtains	and	candles	in	celebration	of	the	great	feast	of	joy	(Chanukkah):
How	gaily	the	candles	sparkle—those	candles	which	she	has	lit	with	her	own
hands	in	order	to	celebrate	the	day	of	victory	on	which	Judas	Mac	cabeus	and	his
brothers	liberated	their	fatherland	as	heroically	as	did	in	our	own	day	King
Frederick	William,	the	Emperor	Alexander	and	the	Emperor	Francis	II!	When
the	good	lady	looks	at	these	little	lights,	her	eyes	fill	with	tears,	and	she
remembers	with	melancholy	joy	her	younger	days	when	Mayer	Amschel
Rothschild,	of	blessed	memory,	still	celebrated	the	Feast	of	Lights	with	her,	and
when	her	sons	were	still	little	boys	who	placed	candles	on	the	floor	and	leapt
over	them	with	childlike	pleasure,	as	is	the	custom	in	Israel.
It	was	Mayer	Amschel’s	work	to	win	full	civil	and	political	rights	for	the
Frankfurt	Jews,	however,	which	best	expressed	his	loyalty	towards	Judaism.We
know	that	his	political	activism	predated	the	French	Revolution	because	he	had
been	one	of	the	seven	signatories	of	the	protest	to	the	Senate	of	1787	(quoted	in
chapter	1)	about	
increased	restrictions	on	travel	outside	the	ghetto	on	Sundays
and	holy	days.	However,	it	was	only	with	the	advent	of	a	French-backed	regime
that	the	possibility	arose	of	more	substantial	improvements	in	the	lot	of	the	Jews.
Things	would	have	moved	faster	if	Frankfurt	had	been	under	the	direct

--- Page 116 ---
jurisdiction	of	Napoleon’s	brother	Jérôme	who,	as	King	of	Westphalia,	favoured
a	policy	of	complete	emancipation.	By	contrast,	Dalberg	was	cautious,	partly
because	he	could	not	risk	alienating	the	local	Gentile	establishment,	partly
because	he	himself	feared	that	a	liberated	Jewish	community	might	“balance
Christian	injustice,	as	soon	as	they	breathed	some	air,	with	Jewish	impudence.”
The	new	Stättigkeit	which	he	issued	in	1808	seemed,	if	anything,	a	step
backwards,	as	it	reasserted	the	ban	on	Jews	living	outside	the	(still	dilapidated)
Judengasse,	reimposed	the	poll	tax	and	confirmed	the	traditional	restrictions	on
numbers	of	families	and	marriages.
It	was	at	this	point	that	Mayer	Amschel	was	able	to	use	his	financial	leverage
over	Dalberg	to	force	the	pace	of	change—the	first	time	a	Rothschild	acted	in
such	a	way	for	what	he	explicitly	called	“our	nation,”	and	not	the	last.	Dalberg,
as	we	have	seen,	was	biddable:	if	a	sufficiently	large	capital	sum	could	be	paid	to
compensate	his	duchy	for	the	loss	of	tax	revenue	which	Jewish	emancipation
would	entail,	he	was	prepared	to	give	his	consent.	After	preliminary	discussions
conducted	via	Dalberg’s	Jewish	police	commissioner	Itzstein,	the	sum	of
440,000	gulden	was	agreed	on—twenty	times	the	sum	paid	each	year	by	the
Jews	for	their	“protection”—of	which	Mayer	Amschel	raised	290,000	on	behalf
of	the	community	by	discounting	bonds.	In	December	1811,	after	further
negotiations	with	the	Frankfurt	Senate,	Mayer	Amschel	was	able	to	inform	his
son,	with	understated	satisfaction:	“You	are	now	a	citizen.”	Two	weeks	later	the
decree	on	the	“civil-legal	equality	of	the	Jewish	community”	came	into	force.
To	be	a	citizen	of	his	native	state,	but	to	remain	unequivocally	a	member	of
“our	nation,”	meaning	the	traditional	Jewish	religious	community:	this	was
Mayer	Amschel’s	aim.	For	the	critical	distinction	between	the	Rothschilds	and
many	other	successful	Jewish	families	of	this	period	was	that,	while	they
fervently	desired	social,	civil	and	political	equality	with	their	Gentile
counterparts,	they	refused	to	abandon	Judaism	as	their	religion	in	order	to
achieve	it.	Their	own	ambition	was	therefore	from	the	outset	inseparable	from
the	political	campaign	for	Jewish	emancipation	not	only	in	Frankfurt,	but
throughout	Europe.
In	this,	as	in	so	much	else,	Mayer	Amschel’s	influence	on	his	descendants	was
profound	and	enduring.	Four	days	after	their	father’s	death,	his	sons	sent	out	a
circular	to	their	most	valued	clients	to	reassure	them	that	there	would	be	no
change	in	the	conduct	of	the	family	business:	“His	memory	will	never	fade
among	us,	his	surviving	partners	.	.	.	Our	blessed	father	remains	unforgettable	to
us.”	Such	pious	sentiments	are	not	always	translated	into	practice	once	the	first

--- Page 117 ---
pain	of	bereavement	has	passed;	but	the	sons	of	Mayer	Amschel	meant	what
they	said.	Time	and	again	in	the	years	after	his	death,	they	harked	back	to	their
father’s	words—to	his	business	aphorisms,	to	his	views	on	Jewish	emancipation
and,	above	all,	to	his	paternal	commandments	to	them,	his	male	descendants.	In
many	ways,	these	numerous	allusions	to	Mayer	Amschel—unremarked	by
previous	historians—reveal	more	about	his	character	than	any	other	source.
A	typical	example	is	Amschel’s	request	for	better	stock	market	information
from	Nathan	in	October	1814:	“Father	used	to	say:	‘A	banker	has	to	calculate,
there	is	no	
merit	in	making	transactions	in	the	dark.’	”	He	made	a	similar	point	in
1817:	their	father	had	told	them	“that	Jewish	fortunes	as	a	rule	don’t	keep	longer
than	two	generations	for	two	reasons.	One	because	the	housekeeping	and	other
expenses	are	not	being	considered,	second	because	of	Jewish	stupidity.”	While
these	echoed	Mayer	Amschel’s	criticism	of	Nathan’s	somewhat	casual	approach
to	accounting,	other	maxims	related	more	to	the	firm’s	relations	with
governments.	One	point	was	obvious	enough,	given	the	benefits	Mayer	Amschel
had	derived	from	his	relationship	with	William	of	Hesse-Kassel:	“I	[learned?]
from	our	blessed	father,”	Salomon	told	Nathan	in	1818,	“who	always	said,	‘The
evil	eye	of	the	court	brings	fewer	advantages	[than	the	title	of	consul	or	court
banker].’	”	But,	as	Amschel	remembered,	it	was	not	enough	just	to	acquire	minor
titles	like	“court	agent”:	“Nowadays	everybody	calls	himself	‘Excellency.’	I
remember,	however,	what	our	father	used	to	say,	‘With	money	you	become	an
Excellency.’	”	The	key	was	to	establish	some	kind	of	financial	leverage.	As
Amschel	put	it,	“It	is	better	to	deal	with	a	government	in	difficulties	than	with
one	that	has	luck	on	its	side.	We	heard	this	from	our	father.”
Nor	was	it	only	the	elder	brothers	who	reminisced	in	this	fashion.	In	March
1817	James	remembered	a	tip	which	he	would	often	put	into	practice	in	his
relations	with	rival	firms:	“Father	used	to	say,	‘If	you	can’t	make	yourself	loved,
make	yourself	feared.’	”	As	late	as	1840	Carl	could	still	be	heard	recalling	how
“his	Father	had	often	taught	him,	when	he	had	occasion	to	apply	to	an	inferior	or
a	man	who	had	little	power	to	assist	him	in	carrying	an	object	he	had	in	view,	he
spoke	with	the	person	as	if	the	whole	depended	entirely	on	him,	though	perhaps
he	knew	he	had	but	the	smallest	possible	influence	in	the	business.”	Of	all	these
pieces	of	business	advice,	the	one	most	frequently	cited	was	probably	Salomon’s
favourite,	on	the	importance	of	cultivating	politicians.	He	cited	this	in	a	letter	to
Nathan	in	October	1815:	“You	know,	dear	Nathan,	what	father	used	to	say	about
sticking	to	a	man	in	government.”	It	came	up	again	a	few	days	later:	“But	you
remember	father’s	principle	that	you	have	to	be	ready	to	try	everything	to	get	in

--- Page 118 ---
with	such	a	great	government	figure.”	And	Mayer	Amschel	had	left	them	in	no
doubt	as	to	how	such	politicians	could	best	be	wooed:	“Our	late	father	taught	us
that	if	a	high-placed	person	enters	into	a	[financial]	partnership	with	a	Jew,	he
belongs	to	the	Jew”	(“gehört	er	dem	Juden”).
The	brothers’	consciousness	of	their	Jewishness	and	of	their	responsibilities	to
the	rest	of	the	Jewish	community	also	owed	much	to	their	father’s	influence.
Intriguingly,	both	Salomon	and	Carl	seem	to	have	regarded	carrying	on	their
father’s	work	for	Jewish	emancipation	in	an	almost	instrumental	way.	As	Carl
put	it	in	May	1817,	“It	is	the	best	thing	on	earth	to	be	of	service	to	the	Jews.	Our
father	did	so	and	we	see	how	well	we	are	paid	back.”	Salomon	made	the	same
connection	between	good	works	and	good	fortune	a	few	months	later	when	he
wrote	to	Nathan	reminding	him	to	put	pressure	on	the	British	government	on
behalf	of	European	Jewry:	“If	we	want	our	children	to	be	one	day	really	happy,
we	have	to	do	all	that	is	in	our	power	to	bring	to	a	good	end	all	the	work	which	.
.	.	father	of	blessed	memory	.	.	.	began	in	the	interest	of	our	people.”	And	he
repeated	the	point	early	the	next	year:
If	everything	depends,	as	it	does,	on	God,	if	we	want,	as	we	do,	to	be	fortunate,
then,	dear	Nathan,	[the	interests	of	the	entire	Jewish	people]	
must	be	as
important	to	you	as	the	most	important	business	deal	once	was.	How	can	we
show	more	respect	for	our	blessed	father,	than	by	supporting	that	work	which	he
laboured	at	for	years[?]
But	of	all	their	father’s	advice,	his	last	commandment—to	maintain	fraternal
unity—had	the	greatest	and	most	enduring	impact.	Salomon	once	attributed	“all
our	luck	to	the	benediction	which	our	father	gave	us	an	hour	before	he	passed
away.”	Amschel	remembered	that	benediction	too:	“I	remember	what	our	father,
peace	be	with	him,	told	me	on	his	deathbed:	‘Amschel,	keep	your	brothers
together	and	you	will	become	the	richest	people	in	Germany.’	This	has	almost
come	true.”	That	advice	was	often	invoked	when	the	brothers	quarrelled—as
they	frequently	did	in	the	turbulent	years	immediately	after	Mayer	Amschel’s
death.	“Our	blessed	father	ordered	us	to	live	in	peace,”	Salomon	reminded
Nathan,	following	an	especially	bitter	attack	by	the	latter	on	Carl.	He	had	to	say
it	again	just	a	week	later:	“My	good	brother,	dear	Nathan,	our	blessed	father
ordered	us	to	live	in	peace,	otherwise	we	shall	lose	our	courage.	Let	us	have
peace.”	More	than	twenty	years	later	the	same	principle	was	elaborately
enshrined	in	a	new	partnership	agreement,	drawn	up	following	the	death	of
Nathan	himself:

--- Page 119 ---
We	wish	to	offer	a	proof	of	our	reverence	for	the	holiest	memory	of	our	father,
whose	virtuous	conduct	in	all	of	life’s	relations	is	a	noble	example	to	us	all.
Through	pious	acceptance	of	the	higher	wishes	of	God,	through	faith	in	God’s
help,	through	conscientious	honesty	and	indefatigable	industry,	this	noble	and
philanthropic	man	laid	the	foundation	of	our	good	fortune,	and	when,	almost
forty	years	ago,	he	took	his	sons	into	partnership	with	him	in	his	business,	he
told	them	that	acting	in	unison	would	be	a	sure	means	of	achieving	success	in
their	work,	and	always	recommended	fraternal	concord	to	them	as	a	source	of
divine	blessing.
In	accordance	with	his	venerable	wishes,	and	following	the	prompt	ings	of	our
own	hearts,	we	therefore	wish	today,	through	this	renewed	agreement,	to
reinforce	our	mutual	dependence	and	hope,	in	this	new	league	of	brotherly	love,
to	guarantee	the	success	of	the	future	activities	of	our	House.	May	our	children
and	descendants	in	the	future	be	guided	by	the	same	aim,	so	that	with	the
constant	maintenance	of	unity	the	House	of	Rothschild	may	blossom	and	grow
into	full	ripeness	.	.	.	;	and	may	they	remain	as	mindful	as	we	of	the	hallowed
precept	of	our	noble	ancestor	and	present	to	posterity	the	godly	image	of	united
love	and	work.
The	same	theme	of	paternally	ordained	brotherly	unity	was	developed	still
further	in	an	annexe	to	the	agreement,	which	solemnly	hoped	that	“in	the	future
[as	in	the	past]	the	blessing	of	our	blessed	father	and	grandfather	upon	our	House
and	our	family”	would	be	fulfilled.	He	had	promised	them	“the	protection	of	the
Almighty;	the	success	of	our	undertakings;	the	prosperity	of	our	family	and	the
continuing	honour	and	respect	of	our	reputation	and	name,”	but	only	if	they
“always	preserved	concord,	love	and	faith”	with	one	another.
Of	course,	it	is	easy	to	detect	in	all	this	the	influence	of	the	Old	Testament;
and	no	doubt	many	another	Jewish	(or	Calvinist)	patriarch	before	and	after
Mayer	Amschel	tried	to	instil	similar	values	into	his	sons.	Nor	was	the	ideal	of
familial	
unity	peculiarly	biblical:	Plutarch	relates	the	parable	of	Scilurus,	who
showed	his	sons	that	a	bundle	of	arrows	could	not	be	broken,	but	that	the
individual	arrows	could.	The	impressive	thing	about	the	Rothschilds,	however,	is
that	the	sons	heeded	their	father	so	zealously.	This	was	a	point	Gentz	stressed	in
his	article	for	the	1827	Brockhaus	
Encyclopaedia.
	The	first	of	the	Rothschilds’
guiding	principles,	he	suggested:
obliges	the	five	brothers	to	conduct	their	combined	businesses	in	an
uninterrupted	community	[of	interest].	That	was	the	rule	which	their	dying	father

--- Page 120 ---
bequeathed	them.	Since	his	death,	any	proposal,	no	matter	where	it	comes	from,
is	the	object	of	collective	discussion;	each	operation,	even	if	it	is	of	minor
importance,	is	carried	out	according	to	an	agreed	plan	and	with	their	combined
efforts;	and	each	of	them	has	an	equal	share	in	its	results.
In	the	very	first	paragraph	of	his	essay,	Gentz	had	in	fact	already	alluded	to
Mayer	Amschel’s	last	commandment	to	his	sons	to	maintain	“unbreakable
unity.”	“Never	has	a	father’s	last	testament	been	carried	out	more
conscientiously	and	more	profitably,”	he	observed.	“It	is	a	peculiar	characteristic
of	this	family,	that	all	its	members	consult	the	shade	of	their	father	at	every
important	stage	of	their	lives,	and	when	assessing	every	business	deal;	remind
themselves—often	verbatim—of	his	wise	teaching	.	.	.	and	never	mention	his
name	without	deep	reverence.”	In	the	1836	edition	it	was	even	stated	that	the
brothers	“revere	their	father	with	such	piety	that	that	they	refer	back	to	him	in
the	course	of	all	important	business	undertakings	and	indeed	Nathan	usually
decides	all	doubtful	cases	on	the	basis	of	a	rule	which	he	attributes	to	his	father.”
This	would	not	have	been	worth	writing	if	it	had	been	commonplace
behaviour.	It	clearly	was	not.	Even	as	late	as	1841,	nearly	thirty	years	after
Mayer	Amschel’s	death,	his	eldest	son	could	feel	moved	to	remind	all	the	other
partners—including	those	who	had	never	even	met	their	grandfather—of	the
same,	all-important	nexus	between	unity	and	success:
Unity
	was	what	our	blessed	father,	with	his	last	words,	enjoined	me	to	uphold	as
[our]	first	and	holiest	of	duties—our	father,	who	united	in	himself	boundless
integrity,	the	deepest	of	insights,	the	wisdom	of	experience	and	the	pious	habits
of	a	sage.	It	is	my	conviction,	and	I	am	sure	it	is	yours	too,	that,	along	with
God’s	blessing,	we	owe	not	only	our	wealth	but	also	our	honourable	position	in
society	primarily	to	the	[spirit	of]	unity	and	co-operation	[that	binds	together]	all
our	partners,	bank	houses	and	establishments.	I	therefore	request	most	urgently
that	you,	beloved	brothers	and	nephews,	will	always	take	care	to	implant	in	your
heirs	the	same	consciousness	of	concord	and	togetherness,	so	that	the	same
[spirit	of]	unity	and	co-operation	continues	to	exist	for	as	long	as	is	at	all
possible.	To	do	so	will	be	of	benefit	both	to	you	and	to	your	descendants.	It	will
prevent	our	business	interests	from	being	split	up,	and	will	stop	others
benefitting	from	our	great	efforts,	our	knowledge	and	the	experience	[we	have]
laboriously	accumulated	over	many	years.	So	I	ask	you,	for	the	sake	of	ensuring
unity,	whenever	there	should	be	any	differences	of	opinion	which	might	lead	to
ill	feeling,	not	to	make	an	immediate	decision,	but	to	let	a	few	days	pass	first	to

--- Page 121 ---
allow	tempers	to	
cool,	in	order	to	avoid	any	overhasty	steps	being	taken.	May
the	unity,	integrity,	sympathy	and	mutual	trust	of	the	community	of	all
Rothschild	houses	be	always	preserved	and	forever	affirmed.
In	the	years	between	1812	and	1841,	there	were,	as	we	shall	see,	many	times
when	Amschel	and	his	brothers	came	close	to	just	the	kind	of	breakdown	in
fraternal	unity	which	their	father	had	warned	them	against.	That	they	always
avoided	it—that,	even	thirty	years	after	his	death,	they	still	remembered	his
dying	commandment—is	a	striking	testament	to	the	patriarchal	power	of	Mayer
Amschel	Rothschild.

--- Page 122 ---
II
Brothers

--- Page 123 ---
THREE
“The	Commanding	General”	(1813-1815)
My	brother	in	London	is	the	commanding	general,	I	am	his	field	marshal	.	.	.
—SALOMON	ROTHSCHILD
	
It	is	an	established	rule	with	us	that	no	disapprobation	shall	be	expressed	by	either
of	us	at	the	conduct	of	the	other,	since	as	partners	we	act	always	for	the	joint
interest	and	consequently	neither	of	us	has	the	right	to	blame	the	other	when	he
has	acted	for	the	best.
—SALOMON	ROTHSCHILD
	
	
	
	
Napoleon’s	celebrated	aphorism—“An	army	marches	on	its	stomach”—left	open
the	question	of	how	that	stomach	was	to	be	filled.	So	did	the	Duke	of
Wellington’s	equivalent:	“To	gain	your	objects	you	must	feed.”	All	the	armies
which	fought	in	Europe	between	1793	and	1815	resorted	at	times	to	the	age-old
practice	of	requisitioning	provisions	from	civilian	populations.	To	varying
degrees,	they	also	relied	on	their	own	lines	of	supply	from	secure	territory.	But
taking	supplies	at	gunpoint	has	the	disadvantage	of	making	an	army	unpopular
and	food	scarce,	while	extended	supply	lines	are	a	source	of	vulnerability.	In
protracted	campaigns	like	Wellington’s	in	the	Iberian	peninsula,	more
sophisticated	methods	of	procurement	were	necessary.	Above	all,	it	was	essential
to	be	able	to	purchase	supplies	and	to	pay	troops.	The	truth	of	Cicero’s	maxim
was	never	more	apparent	than	in	the	years	between	1808	and	1815:	
nervos	belli,
pecuniam	infinitam
,	or,	as	Henry	Dundas	had	put	it	to	William	Pitt	at	the	outset
of	the	wars	with	Revolutionary	France:	“All	modern	Wars	are	a	Contention	of

--- Page 124 ---
Purse.”
As	early	as	May	1809	Wellington	was	complaining	to	the	government	in
London	that	he	did	not	have	enough	of	it.	In	March	1811	he	wrote	to	the	Prime
Minister,	Lord	Liverpool,	threatening	that	he	would	have	to	halt	the	campaign
altogether	because	of	the	lack	of	cash.	A	year	and	a	half	later,	on	the	eve	of	the
invasion	of	France	itself,	the	problem	was	once	again	acute.	The	outgoings	of	his
military	chest	were	running	at	around	£100,000	a	month,	including	not	only
payments	to	his	own	troops,	but	also	subsidies	to	Portugal	and	Spain	(now
forcibly	won	over	to	the	British	side).	But,	as	he	explained	to	Earl	Bathurst,	he
was	only	just	able	to	pay	for	the	subsidies	to	his	allies.	In	the	absence	of	cash,	he
was	reduced	to	paying	officers	in	
depreciated	paper	money,	while	the	lower
ranks	(who	refused	to	accept	payment	in	paper)	were	not	being	paid	at	all.
“Unless	this	army	should	be	assisted	with	a	very	large	sum	of	money	at	a	very
early	period,”	he	warned	the	government,
the	distress	felt	by	all	the	troops	will	be	most	severe	.	.	.	and	it	will	be	quite
impossible	for	me	to	do	anything	.	.	.	[The	Spanish	troops]	are	in	so	miserable	a
state,	that	it	is	really	hardly	fair	to	expect	that	they	will	refrain	from	plundering	a
beautiful	country,	into	which	they	enter	as	conquerors;	particularly,	adverting	to
the	miseries	which	their	own	country	has	suffered	from	its	invaders.	I	cannot,
therefore,	venture	to	bring	them	back	into	France,	unless	I	can	feed	and	pay	them
.	.	.	Without	pay	and	food,	they	must	plunder;	and	if	they	plunder,	they	will	ruin
us	all.
The	nadir	was	reached	in	February	1813,	when	Wellington	reported	that	he	could
“scarcely	stir	out	of	my	house	on	account	of	the	public	creditors	waiting	to
demand	payment	of	what	is	due	to	them.”	As	it	was	Wellington’s	financial
difficulties	which	provided	Nathan	Rothschild	with	the	decisive	business
opportunity	of	his	career,	it	is	worth	saying	a	few	words	about	the	cause	of	them.
Of	all	the	states	of	the	
ancien	régime
,	Britain	had	the	most	efficient	financial
system.	The	key	institutions	had	evolved	in	the	century	after	the	Glorious
Revolution:	a	relatively	cheap	and	centralised	system	of	revenue	collection;	a
fairly	transparent	budget-making	process	in	parliament;	a	more	or	less	stable
system	of	public	borrowing,	the	funded	national	debt;	and	an	equally	stable
monetary	system	revolving	around	the	Bank	of	England	and	the	convertibility	of
paper	notes	into	gold.	It	was	this	which	enabled	Britain	to	wage	six	major	wars
in	the	course	of	the	eighteenth	century	without	succumbing	to	the	kind	of
political	crisis	which	precipitated	the	overthrow	of	the	more	financially

--- Page 125 ---
backward	French	state.	But	the	cost	of	war	rose	rapidly	after	1789	(partly
because	the	Revolutionary	regime	was	able	to	field	armies	of	unprecedented
size):	it	has	been	estimated	that	the	annual	cost	was	five	times	higher	in	real
terms	during	the	Napoleonic	Wars	than	it	had	been	a	century	before.	Public
expenditure	in	Britain	rose	sharply	between	1793	and	1815,	from	something	like
£18	million	a	year	to	around	£100	million	(around	16	per	cent	of	estimated
national	income).	The	total	cost	of	war	with	France	in	that	period	was	around
£830	million,	of	which	some	£59	million	took	the	form	of	subsidies	to	Britain’s
less	solvent	allies.	A	host	of	new	taxes	had	to	be	created,	of	which	the	income
tax	was	the	most	important,	but	these	only	paid	for	about	a	quarter	of	the	war’s
costs.	As	a	result,	the	national	debt	soared	from	£240	million	in	1793	to	£900
million	in	1815,	close	to	200	per	cent	of	national	income.	Moreover,	in	1797	the
Bank	of	England	felt	obliged	to	suspend	gold	convertibility,	ushering	in	a	period
of	currency	depreciation.	The	combination	of	wartime	shortages	and	the	growth
of	paper-money	circulation	led	to	inflation:	prices	roughly	doubled	in	the	twenty
years	before	1815.	Wellington’s	campaign	was	therefore	being	fought	at	a	time
of	unparalleled	fiscal	“overstretch.”
This	does	not	fully	explain	the	Duke’s	difficulties,	however,	which	were	partly
logistical.	Even	if	the	Exchequer	in	London	had	been	overflowing,	it	would	still
have	been	difficult	to	get	money	to	Wellington	in	a	form	that	Spanish	merchants
would	accept.	Up	until	1813	there	were	two	ways	in	which	this	could	be	done.
Either	bullion	(in	the	form	of	gold	guineas)
1
	could	be	shipped	to	Portugal	or
Spain,	and	exchanged	there	for	local	coins;	or	the	Duke	could	borrow	from	local
bankers	by	selling	them	bills	on	London.	Given	the	risks	which	attended	large-
scale	shipments	of	gold,	it	was	the	latter	method	to	which	Wellington	more	often
had	recourse.	The	problem	was	that	by	1812	the	Iberian	market	for	bills	on
London	was	saturated,	and	Wellington	found	that	he	could	sell	new	bills	only	at
a	prohibitively	steep	discount:	“The	patriotic	gentlemen	at	Lisbon,”	he
complained	to	Bathurst,	“will	give	us	no	money,	or	very	little,	for	the	draughts
on	the	Treasury.”	It	was	into	this	breach	that	Nathan	Rothschild	stepped.
	
War	and	Peace
Historians	have	never	adequately	explained	how	an	obscure	Jewish	merchant
banker—who	only	a	few	years	before	had	been	a	smuggler,	and	a	few	years
before	that	a	minor	textiles	exporter—was	able	to	become	the	principal	conduit
of	money	from	the	British	government	to	the	continental	battlefields	on	which
the	fate	of	Europe	was	decided	in	1814	and	1815.	Of	all	the	steps	in	the	ascent	of

--- Page 126 ---
the	house	of	Rothschild,	this	was	surely	the	greatest;	yet	it	is	also	the	least
understood.
Three	distinct	elements	were	required	to	turn	Nathan	into	(as	his	brothers	later
said,	only	half	in	jest)	the	“commanding	general”—the	Napoleon	of	finance.	The
first	was	the	absence	of	competition.	This	was	a	matter	of	sheer	good	luck,	for
before	1810	the	City	of	London	was	not	short	of	able	bankers.	Harman	&	Co.
(whom	we	have	already	encountered	among	the	Rothschilds’	earliest
correspondents	in	London),	Reid,	Irving	&	Co.,	Smith,	Payne	&	Smith	and
above	all	Baring	Brothers—all	might	have	been	expected	to	assist	the
government	in	its	financial	difficulties.	Indeed,	the	Barings	had	already	been
involved	in	relaying	British	funds	in	the	form	of	loans	to	Portugal.	Nor	was
Nathan	the	only	Jewish	merchant	seeking	to	challenge	the	established	banks:
Abraham	and	Benjamin	Goldsmid	had	been	doing	so	since	the	1790s,	while	a
succession	of	German	bankers	arrived	in	London	in	the	years	after	1802	(notably
Schröder,	Brandt	and	Huth)	intending	to	emulate	their	achievements.	As	the	new
Commissary-in-Chief	who	had	been	entrusted	with	the	task	of	providing
Wellington	with	funds	observed	in	November	1813,	“Many	houses	have	already
offered	their	services	to	me.”	Indeed,	his	first	instinct	was	that	Barings	were	“on
every	score	the	most	proper	channel	for	our	money	transactions.”	Yet	it	soon
became	apparent	that	neither	Barings	nor	any	other	established	firm	was	in	a
position	to	act.	In	the	case	of	Barings,	this	was	partly	because	leadership	of	the
firm	had	only	recently	passed	from	Francis	Baring	(who	died	in	1810)	to	his	son
Alexander.	The	main	reason,	however,	was	that	the	City	as	a	whole	was	reeling
from	two	major	shocks.	The	first	was	the	crisis	of	1810,	partly	occasioned	by	the
report	of	the	Bullion	Committee,	recommending	(against	the	advice	of	the	Bank
of	England)	an	early	resumption	of	gold	payments.	The	prospect	of	a	period	of
tight	money—which	this	implied—led	to	a	slump	in	the	price	of	government
stocks	and	left	the	Barings	and	the	Goldsmids	holding	substantial	amounts	of	the
most	recent	government	loan.	Barings	lost	around	£43,000.	Abraham	Goldsmid
committed	suicide,	leading	(as	William	Cobbett	remarked	with	distaste)	to
“
alarm
	and	
dismay
”	in	the	City	and	an	intensification	of	the	panic.	Probably	of
equal	importance	was	the	simultaneous	collapse	of	the	Amsterdam	market
occasioned	by	Napoleon’s	annexation	of	the	Netherlands.	This	left	Barings’
continental	partner	Hope	&	Co.,	which	
had	for	some	time	played	a	dominant
role	in	Russian	finances,	a	mere	“empty	shell.”
The	second	factor	in	Nathan’s	favour	was	the	appointment	of	John	Charles
Herries	as	Commissary-in-Chief	in	October	1811.	Herries	was	to	be	Nathan’s

--- Page 127 ---
Buderus,	his	first	“friend”	in	a	high	place.	Himself	the	son	of	a	minor	merchant
banker,	Herries	had	risen	through	the	political	ranks	rapidly	since	becoming	a
junior	clerk	at	the	Treasury	in	1798.	Three	years	later	he	was	appointed	private
secretary	to	Nicholas	Vansittart,	the	Secretary	to	the	Treasury,	and	served
Spencer	Perceval	in	the	same	capacity	when	he	was	Chancellor	of	the	Exchequer
in	1807-9.	It	was	not	only	his	family	background	in	finance,	however,	which
enabled	Herries	to	identify	Nathan	Rothschild	as	the	solution	to	his	problem	as
Commissary.	For	Herries,	unusually,	was	something	of	a	Germanophile.	Not
only	had	he	studied	in	Leipzig;	he	had	even	translated	Friedrich	Gentz’s	anti-
French	tract	
On	the	State	of	Europe	before	and	after	the	French	Revolution
.	It
also	seems	possible	that	it	was	a	friendship	dating	back	to	his	Leipzig	days
which	alerted	him	to	the	potential	usefulness	of	the	Rothschilds.	According	to
one	account,	Herries	had,	as	a	student,	been	involved	romantically	with	a	woman
who	was	now	the	wife	of	an	ennobled	Leipzig	tobacco	merchant	named	Baron
Limburger—to	the	extent	that	he	had	an	illegitimate	child	by	her.	The
Limburgers	later	claimed	that	it	was	on	their	recommendation	that	Herries	had
involved	Nathan	in	the	financing	of	Wellington’s	campaign;	and	it	seems
reasonable	to	infer	something	of	the	sort	from	the	fact	that	they	subsequently	felt
able	to	claim	between	£30,000	and	£40,000	as	a	1	per	cent	commission	on	the
money	made	by	Nathan	on	government	business.	On	the	other	hand,	it	was	not
until	February	1814—after	Nathan’s	first	commission	from	the	government—
that	Limburger	wrote	to	Herries,	praising	the	Rothschilds’	“zeal	and	prudence,”
but	at	the	same	time	offering	his	own	services	as	“an	upright	and	prudent
individual”	to	superintend	their	operations;	and	Herries	was	initially	cool	in	his
response.	On	reflection,	he	did	decide	to	employ	Limburger	in	the	way
suggested,	but	he	was	careful	to	emphasise	that	his	confidence	in	Nathan
predated	Limburger’s	involvement.	Similarly,	it	was	not	until	June	of	the	same
year	that	the	Rothschilds	began	to	regard	Limburger	as	having	influence	with
Herries.
It	is	possible	that	Limburger	was	merely	one	of	those	unscrupulous	and
opportunistic	conmen	who	abounded	in	Napoleonic	Europe,	and	that	he	was
subtly	blackmailing	Herries	on	account	of	his	bastard	child.	As	Carl	commented
sceptically	in	early	1815,	Limburger’s	wife	was	“a	great	lover	of	money,”	and
Amschel	suspected	Limburger	himself	of	merely	“playing	the	great	man.”	In	the
end,	the	Limburgers	had	to	be	paid	off	with	£15,000	in	a	manner	which	was
more	appropriate	to	blackmailers	than	partners.	Nevertheless,	as	Carl	had	to
admit,	Limburger	“had	done	us	a	favour,”	if	only	by	acting	as	an	aristocratic	go-

--- Page 128 ---
between	in	the	brothers’	dealings	with	continental	governments.
The	third	and	most	important	reason	Nathan	became	involved	in	British	war
finance	was	that,	unlike	his	rivals,	he	had	a	solution	to	the	problem	of	how	to	get
money	to	Wellington.	As	so	often,	Nathan	subsequently	made	what	he	had	done
sound	easy:
When	I	was	settled	in	London,	the	East	India	Company	had	£800,000	worth	of
gold	to	sell.	I	went	to	the	sale,	and	bought	it	all.	I	knew	the	
Duke	of	Wellington
must	have	it.	I	had	bought	a	great	many	of	his	bills	at	a	discount.	The
Government	sent	for	me	and	said	they	must	have	it.	When	they	got	it,	they	did
not	know	how	to	get	it	to	Portugal.	I	undertook	all	that	and	I	sent	it	to	France;
and	that	was	the	best	business	I	ever	did.
And,	of	course,	the	story	has	been	embroidered	by	myth-makers,	attributing
patriotic	motives	to	Nathan	and	even	imagining	James	crossing	the	French	lines
in	woman’s	clothing.	The	reality	was	very	different.	At	some	point	before	March
1811	the	Rothschilds	became	involved	in	smuggling	gold	bullion	from	England
to	France.	This	was	technically	a	breach	of	the	Continental	System,	but	it	was
tolerated	by	Napoleon	and	later	actually	licensed.	The	youngest	Rothschild
brother	took	care	of	the	business	on	the	other	side	of	the	Channel,	at	Gravelines
or	Dunkirk,	exchanging	the	imported	guineas	for	bills	on	London,	the	prices	of
which	were	naturally	very	low	in	France	at	that	time	and	which	could	then	be
redeemed	at	a	profit	in	London.	A	typical	series	of	six	shipments	from	Nathan	to
James	in	April	1812	amounted	to	some	£27,300	in	guineas,	in	return	for	which
James	sent	Nathan	bills	from	Paris	bankers	like	Hottinguer,	Davillier,	Faber	and
Morell	with	a	face	value	of	£65,798.	The	other	Rothschild	brothers	contributed
by	relaying	suitable	bills	to	James	from	Hamburg	and	Frankfurt.
As	with	the	earlier	covert	operations	on	behalf	of	the	Elector	of	Hesse-Kassel,
an	unsophisticated	code	was	devised	which	more	or	less	sufficed	to	allay	French
suspicions.	Nathan	became	“Langbein,”	London	became	“Jerusalem,”	and	the
transfers	of	bullion	across	the	Channel	were	codenamed	“Rabbi	Moses”	or
“Rabbi	Mosche.”	Incriminating	consignments	were	referred	to,	variously,	as
“beer,”	“fish”	or	“children.”	Other	key	figures	(no	longer	identifiable)	were
known	as	“the	fat	man”	and	“the	cursed	one.”	In	addition,	to	ensure	that	cross-
Channel	communications	were	as	secure	and	swift	as	possible,	agents	at	Dover
were	authorised	to	charter	boats	for	Rothschild	business.	It	was	one	such	vessel
which	smuggled	James	himself	across	the	Channel	when	he	visited	Nathan	in
1813.	“Playing	hide	and	seek”	with	the	authorities	was	becoming	second	nature

--- Page 129 ---
to	the	brothers.	Indeed,	even	their	sons	were	already	being	taught	to	attach
importance	to	secrecy:	at	the	age	of	just	eleven	Salomon’s	son	Anselm	refused	to
let	his	teacher	correct	a	letter	he	was	writing	to	his	father.	“My	dear	mother,”	the
boy	explained,	“how	can	I	possibly	divulge	the	secrets	which	I	share	with	my
father	to	Mr	Sachs?”
It	was	probably	the	scale	of	Nathan’s	purchases	of	bullion	in	London	which
first	brought	him	to	Herries’s	attention.	It	may	also	be	that	some	of	the	bills
which	were	finding	their	way	back	to	London	through	the	Rothschilds	were
Wellington’s,	having	been	sold	on	by	his	Spanish,	Portuguese	and	Maltese
bankers	to	Paris	houses.	And	it	is	just	possible	that	James	was	already	using	the
bullion	sent	to	him	by	Nathan	to	buy	bills	on	Spanish	and	Portuguese	houses
which	were	then	sent	across	the	Pyrenees	to	Wellington.	Although	evidence	for
this	assertion	is	scant,	it	is	not	implausible.	After	all,	money	had	been	sent	in
1806	and	1807	from	Spain’s	American	colonies	to	France	by	an	even	more
circuitous	route	starting	in	Vera	Cruz,	heading	north	to	New	York	and	then
crossing	the	Atlantic,	via	London,	to	Paris.	Indeed,	on	one	occasion	Mexican
piasters	worth	over	14	million	francs	were	shipped	across	the	Channel	to	the
French	Treasury	by	a	British	warship!	Generally	speaking,	the	
profits	to	be	made
from	such	transactions	were	regarded	as	outweighing	the	benefits	the	enemy
derived	from	the	money	itself.	In	addition,	there	was	a	degree	of	theoretical
confusion	as	to	the	economic	significance	of	such	transfers	of	bullion,	which
helps	to	explain	why	the	French	authorities	tolerated	James’s	activities	in	Paris
and	Bordeaux	(about	which	they	were	quite	well	informed).	Although	some
French	police	officials	had	their	suspicions,	Napoleon	followed	the	advice	of	his
Minister	of	the	Public	Treasury,	François	Nicholas	Mollien,	who	argued	that	any
outflow	of	bullion	from	Britain	was	a	sign	of	economic	weakness	and	therefore
advantageous	to	France.
This	was	a	bad	miscalculation;	on	the	contrary,	the	Rothschilds’	ability	to
relay	specie	across	the	Channel	was	about	to	become	a	decisive	source	of
strength	to	Britain.	On	January	11,	1814,	Nathan	was	officially	charged	with	the
task	of	financing	Wellington’s	advance	through	France.	In	Vansittart’s	words,
Herries	was	to	“employ	that	gentleman	[Nathan]	in	the	most	secret	and
confidential	manner	to	collect	in	Germany,	France	and	Holland	the	largest
quantity	of	French	gold	and	silver	coins,	not	exceeding	in	value	£600,000,	which
he	may	be	able	to	procure	within	two	months	from	the	present	time.”	These	were
then	to	be	delivered	to	British	vessels	at	the	Dutch	port	of	Helvoetsluys,	whence
they	would	be	relayed	to	Wellington	via	St	Jean	de	Luz,	near	Biarritz.	It	was	to

--- Page 130 ---
be	“distinctly	understood	by	Mr	Rothschild	.	.	.	that	he	is	to	take	upon	himself	all
risks	and	losses,	which	may	occur,	prior	to	the	delivery	on	board	His	Majesty’s
ship.”	If	successful,	he	would	be	entitled	to	a	commission	of	2	per	cent	on	the
sum	delivered.	But,	at	all	costs,	secrecy	must	be	maintained.	This	was	a
breakthrough,	in	that	it	was	the	Rothschilds’	first	official	commission	from	the
British	government	and	it	brought	Nathan	into	direct	contact	not	only	with
Herries—by	March,	he	was	“almost	continually”	in	Herries’s	office—but	with
Vansittart	and	the	Prime	Minister	himself,	Lord	Liverpool.
Admittedly,	the	operation	proved	to	be	rather	more	difficult	than	Nathan	had
anticipated.	Meyer	Davidson,	whom	Nathan	sent	to	Amsterdam,	complained
repeatedly	about	the	short	supply	of	suitable	coins	in	the	wake	of	the	French
occupation,	and	quickly	concluded	that	new	napoléons	d’or	(the	imperial
successor	to	the	old	louis	d’or	coin)	would	have	to	be	struck	if	Nathan	was	to
fulfil	his	contract.	By	the	end	of	February	Davidson	had	been	able	to	accumulate
no	more	than	£150,000,	“Yet	this	is	like	a	drop	of	water	in	the	ocean.	Why?
Because	it	is	.	.	.	an	English	government	commission	and	the	English
government	could	make	use	of	all	the	cash	that	exists	on	the	continent	and	even
this	would	not	satisfy	them.”	Davidson	began	to	fear	that	the	transaction	could
not	be	carried	out,	and	there	was	talk	of	reducing	the	target	figure	from	£600,000
to	half	that	amount.
Despite	these	difficulties,	however,	Herries	was	impressed.	As	early	as
February	22	Wellington	was	writing	to	thank	Bathurst	for	“the	supplies	of
money	which	are	very	ample.”	By	April	Nathan	and	James	were	able	to	convert
over	£20,000	into	guilders	for	immediate	use	by	the	British	forces,	and	the
Rothschilds	continued	to	furnish	the	advancing	army	with	money	until	the	end	of
the	year,	when	the	government	resumed	normal	methods	of	payment.	As	Herries
told	Sir	George	Burgman,	the	British	paymaster	in	Amsterdam,	“Rothschild	of
this	place	has	executed	the	various	services	entrusted	to	him	in	this	line
admirably	well,	and	though	a	Jew,	we	place	a	good	deal	of	confidence	in	him.”
One	reason	for	Herries’s	satisfaction	was	that	the	Rothschilds	delivered
substantial	amounts	of	the	cash	to	Helvoetsluys	in	
advance	of	being	paid	by	the
government,	leading	some	historians	to	assume	that	Nathan	was	using	Prince
William’s	London	stocks	as	collateral	for	large-scale	borrowings	in	London	and
Paris.	This	is	possible,	but	it	cannot	have	been	the	brothers’	sole	source	of	credit,
given	the	size	of	the	sums	involved.	As	Neal	has	put	it,	Nathan	was	“financ[ing]
the	war	against	France	with	the	resources	of	the	continent”—merchants’	bills	on
London	which	the	Rothschilds	were	buying	up	and	converting	into	bullion,

--- Page 131 ---
which	they	then	sent	to	Wellington’s	army	on	Herrries’s	account.	By	the	middle
of	May	Nathan	was	owed	as	much	as	£1,167,000	by	the	government—a	sum
large	enough	to	terrify	his	brother	Salomon,	and	evidently	more	than	even
Nathan	could	sustain.	As	Herries	told	Drummond,	his	representative	in	France,
he	was
not	surprised	at	the	extreme	solicitude	of	the	brother	in	London	to	obtain	money
from	you.	They	are	now	serving	us	to	a	very	considerable	extent	by	their	credit
and	if	we	fail	to	supply	[them]	with	funds	to	meet	these	engagements	the	weight
is	greater	than	any	individual	however	rich	could	be	expected	to	support.	The
brother	here	is	doing	the	business	remarkably	well	and	seems	capable	of
supplying	one	with	money	to	any	extent.
It	was	not	only	the	British	army	which	received	money	from	the	Rothschilds
on	Herries’s	account	in	1814.	Of	rather	more	importance—because	potentially
more	lucrative—were	the	payments	which	had	to	be	made	by	the	British
government	to	finance	the	military	efforts	of	its	less	solvent	allies	on	the
continent.	Such	payments	had	previously	been	handled	by	banks	such	as	Barings
and	Reid,	Irving,	but	now	Nathan,	having	won	Herries’s	confidence,	was	well
placed	to	take	them	over.	The	only	difficulty	lay	in	persuading	the	recipient
countries	to	place	similar	confidence	in	his	brothers	on	the	other	side	of	the
Channel.	This	was	achieved	most	easily	with	Russia,	rather	less	easily	with
Prussia	and	only	to	a	limited	extent	with	Austria.	Smaller	Allied	states—
including	Mecklenburg	and,	predictably,	Hesse-Kassel—also	received	money
through	the	Rothschilds,	as	did	the	returning	French	monarch,	Louis	XVIII.	The
total	amounts	involved	were	huge.	Altogether	between	1811	and	1815	Britain
paid	around	£42	million	to	her	allies.	The	Rothschilds	became	involved	late	in
the	day,	but	swiftly	established	a	dominant	position.	In	June	1814	Herries	listed
the	payments	they	had	so	far	made	to	Prussia,	Austria,	the	French	King	and	the
British	army.	Including	money	that	had	not	yet	been	disbursed,	the	total	was	12.6
million	francs,	and	more	was	to	come.	Small	wonder	Lord	Liverpool	referred	to
“Mr	Rothschild”	as	“a	very	useful	friend.”	“I	do	not	know,”	he	told	Castlereagh,
“what	we	should	have	done	without	him	last	year	[1814].”
It	proved	relatively	easy	to	secure	a	substantial	share	of	the	Russian	business.
The	agreement	reached	between	Britain,	Russia	and	Prussia	at	Reichenbach	in
June	1813	had	promised	a	total	payment	of	£1,333,333	to	Russia	and	£666,666
to	Prussia,	partly	in	the	form	of	interest-bearing	treasury	bills.	However,	the
cash-strapped	British	government	repeatedly	deferred	payment	and	it	was	not

--- Page 132 ---
until	the	end	of	May	1814	that	an	agreement	was	reached	which	provided	for
fifteen	monthly	instalments	of	a	million	Prussian	thaler	each	(in	the	form	of
interest-bearing	drafts),	two-thirds	to	Russia,	one-third	to	Prussia.	Gervais,	the
Russian	diplomat	charged	with	converting	the	subsidy	into	cash,	initially	turned
to	Hope	&	Co.,	seeking	an	
advance	on	the	first	seven	months’	payments	and
offering	a	discount	of	2	per	cent.	But	the	Hope	director	Labouchère	hesitated	and
the	Rothschilds—represented	ably	by	Salomon	and	James—snapped	up	the
business.	They	offered	not	only	to	convert	instalments	worth	4	million	thaler	into
louis	d’or	and	ducats,	but	to	deliver	most	of	the	money	to	Hamburg,	Dresden	and
Warsaw,	where	it	was	urgently	needed	to	pay	Russian	troops.
The	Rothschilds’	terms	were	evidently	attractive	enough,	especially	in	the
initial	absence	of	competition.	As	James	said,	Gervais	“needed	cash,	and	soon,”
and	no	other	firm	would	risk	delivering	so	much	cash	to	remote	Warsaw.	It	was
also	advantageous	from	a	British	viewpoint	to	let	the	Rothschilds	handle	the
transaction,	as	they	undertook	to	reduce	the	interest	Britain	had	to	pay	and	to
secure	a	more	favourable	exchange	rate	from	pounds	to	thalers	than	had
originally	been	agreed.	Indeed,	James	exuberantly	claimed	that	“a	better	deal
had	never	been	made	for	[a]	government.”	“You	can	confidently	tell	Lord
Liverpool,”	he	told	Nathan	with	youthful	bravado,	“that	this	transaction	is	a
masterpiece.”
It	was	a	masterpiece	in	more	ways	than	one.	As	their	father	had	taught	them,
the	brothers	were	always	careful	to	make	their	terms	attractive	not	only	to
governments,	but	also	to	the	individual	officials	with	whom	they	were
negotiating.	Thus,	to	ensure	that	Gervais	acquired	a	personal	interest	in	doing
business	with	Rothschilds—to	make	him	a	reliable	“friend”	or	“helper”	of	the
house—he	and	other	Russian	officials	were	discreetly	plied	with	money	in	the
form	of	commissions	and	interest-free	loans.	This	was,	as	the	brothers
themselves	privately	acknowledged,	no	more	or	less	than	bribery.	Under	the
terms	of	a	separate	agreement	with	Russia,	a	1	per	cent	commission	went
straight	into	Gervais’s	pocket.	“Our	friend	baksheesh”	(“der	Freund
Schmiergeld”)	had,	as	James	and	Carl	said,	played	a	vital	role	not	only	in
clinching	the	deal,	but	in	paving	the	way	for	future	deals.	For,	as	Davidson
archly	put	it,	“Now	the	Russian	knows	Salomon	and	Salomon	knows	the
Russian.”	Characteristically,	the	brothers	had	widely	differing	views	as	to	how
much	Gervais	should	receive.	Salomon	knew—or	thought	he	knew—Gervais’s
price.	On	reflection,	he	felt	James	had	given	the	Russian	“too	much	of	the
profits”	and	“obviously	[did]	not	understand	how	bribes	are	given”:	the	gift	of	a

--- Page 133 ---
watch	and	some	English	stocks	would	have	sufficed.	But	James	dimissed	this	as
“really	stupid,”	assuring	his	brothers	that	he	would	be	able	to	secure	an	even
bigger	commission	on	the	next	Russian	transfer:	“The	money	given	to	Gervais
makes	all	the	difference	and	I	happen	to	know	the	man.”	Carl	appears	to	have
sided	with	James	in	this	argument,	but	could	not	resist	pointing	out	that	bribing
Gervais	had	originally	been	his	idea.
Such	payments	to	politicians	and	civil	servants	should	not,	of	course,	be
judged	by	the	standards	of	late-twentieth-century	Britain,	where	holders	of
public	office	are	forbidden	to	accept	bribes,	and	Members	of	Parliament	are
obliged	to	declare	their	private	business	interests,	consultancy	fees	and	even
gifts.	As	we	shall	see,	bribery	was	common	practice	in	most	of	Europe	for	most
of	the	nineteenth	century,	and	the	Rothschilds	frequently	obliged	the	more	venal
politicians	and	civil	servants	they	encountered	with	cash	payments.	To	be	sure,
as	contemporaries	often	remarked,	“corruption”	varied	in	its	character	and
degree	from	place	to	place	as	well	as	over	time.	Even	in	1814—long	before	the
spread	of	Gladstonian	notions	of	public	probity—British	officials	were
understood	to	be	more	scrupulous	than	Russian;	or,	rather,	they	were	known	to
be	more	subject	to	parliamentary	and	press	scrutiny.	For	
this	reason,	the
payments	to	Gervais	were	carefully	concealed	from	Herries,	and	there	was	no
question	of	Herries	himself	receiving	similar	sums.	But	more	subtle	ways	could
be	found	of	taking	his	private	interests	into	consideration.	In	July	1814	Amschel
sent	Nathan	a	letter	from	Madame	Limburger	relating	to	her	illegitimate	child—
a	letter	he	advised	his	brother	to	show	to	the	child’s	father,	Herries.	“It	would	be
good	[if	you	could],”	he	wrote,	“because	he	may	give	you	the	Prussian	and
Russian	business,	as	he	would	very	much	like	the	child	to	make	some	more
money.	And	if	the	child	gets	a	quarter	of	the	profit,	then	we	would	have	our
profit,	too.”
The	Russian	subsidy	deal	was	indeed	a	
Meistergeschäft
—for	the	British
government,	for	Gervais,	and	above	all	for	the	Rothschilds	themselves.	Taking
into	account	their	2	per	cent	commission	from	Britain,	an	additional	2	per	cent	to
cover	costs	and	a	further	4	per	cent	from	the	Russian	government,	their	gross
profit	on	the	first	tranche	of	4	million	thaler	was	of	the	order	of	8	per	cent.	Later
payments	(of	3.7	million	francs	and	5.3	million	thaler)	yielded	comparable
returns.	Other	governments	were	equally	willing	to	pay	substantial	commissions
in	order	to	convert	their	subsidies	into	ready	cash.	The	government	of
Mecklenburg	“needed	money	like	bread,”	James	reported	from	Schwerin,	and
was	willing	to	forgo	up	to	30	per	cent	of	its	1.5	million	thaler	subsidy

--- Page 134 ---
entitlement—and	pay	a	5	per	cent	commission—if	the	Rothschilds	could	arrange
“immediate	payment.”	“They	would	do	anything	we	want	them	[to	do],”	wrote
James	gleefully,	“in	order	to	obtain	money	quickly.”	The	returning	French	King,
Louis	XVIII,	was	also	furnished	with	money	by	Rothschilds	in	the	form	of	bills
on	Paris.	There	were	equally	easy	pickings	in	Hesse-Kassel,	where,	following
the	departure	of	Dalberg	and	prior	to	the	return	of	the	Elector,	a	skeleton
administration	struggled	to	pay	the	costs	imposed	by	Allied	armies	in	transit.
With	the	Russian	Second	Army	Corps	requisitioning	already	scarce	grain	and
not	a	penny	left	in	the	War	Chest,	William’s	officials	turned	in	desperation	to	the
Rothschilds	for	a	250,000	gulden	loan.	Initially	intended	to	be	for	only	six
months,	part	of	this	loan	had	to	be	prolonged	because	of	the	virtual	impossibility
of	raising	adequate	taxation	from	the	“plundered”	and	“exhausted”	populace.
By	contrast,	the	Prussian	subsidy	business	proved	at	once	harder	to	secure	and
less	lucrative.	In	part,	this	was	because	Prussian	negotiators	were	less	biddable
than	Gervais.	The	brothers	made	overtures	to	the	Finance	Minister	Prince	Bülow
and	to	Prince	Hardenberg’s	adviser	Christian	Rother,	but	elicited	only	a
lukewarm	response,	despite	the	positive	impression	made	by	Herries’s
recommendation.	James	managed	to	secure	three	instalments	totalling	a	million
thaler,	but	the	Prussians	dismissed	the	2	per	cent	commission	he	asked	as	too
high.	“There’s	money	to	be	made	from	Russia,”	James	suspected,	“but	none
from	Prussia.”	Six	months	on,	he	saw	no	reason	to	revise	that	initial	judgement:
“There	is	generally	no	pleasure	in	doing	business	with	the	Prussians,”	he
grumbled	as	yet	another	bid	was	rejected.	In	the	end,	the	brothers	had	to	do
without	a	commission	altogether,	and	although	the	3	per	cent	profit	finally
realised	on	this	deal	was	better	than	had	initially	been	expected,	they	had	to
console	themselves	with	the	thought	that	they	had	at	least	secured	a	foothold	in
Berlin,	which	might	prove	more	profitable	in	the	future.	“At	any	rate,”	James
reflected,	“we	have	now,	thank	God,	managed	to	push	our	way	into	the	business,
and	it	will	be	of	considerable	use	in	bringing	us	into	contact	with	the	Prussian
court.”
It	proved	harder	still	to	“establish	contact”	with	the	Austrian	court.	Under	the
Treaty	of	Treplitz	of	1813,	the	Austrians	were	to	be	paid	a	million	pounds	as	a
subsidy,	and	the	Treaty	of	Chaumont	of	January	1814	increased	the	total	by	two-
thirds,	to	be	paid	in	monthly	instalments	of	£138,888.	After	the	French	defeat,
the	total	due	was	scaled	down	to	£555,555.	Again	the	Rothschilds	put	in	a	bid	to
handle	part	of	the	transfer,	backed	up	as	usual	by	Herries.	The	terms	were
deliberately	generous:	not	only	did	the	Rothschilds	offer	to	waive	any

--- Page 135 ---
commission,	but	they	offered	to	convert	sterling	into	gulden	at	the	rate	of	8.48	to
the	pound.	But	Barbier,	the	Vice-President	of	the	Austrian	Treasury,	and	his
superior,	the	Finance	Minister	Count	Ugarte,	rejected	the	offer	in	the	belief	that
Viennese	banks	should	be	employed.	A	second	bid	to	transfer	monies	to	Austria
from	Belgium	(to	defray	the	costs	of	occupation)	also	fell	through	because	the
Austrians	sought	to	attach	unacceptable	conditions	to	the	Rothschild	offer.
2
All	the	diverse	inter-governmental	payments	the	Rothschilds	succeeded	in
making	in	1814	had	one	thing	in	common:	in	each	case,	there	were	at	least	two
ways	(and	sometimes	three)	to	make	a	profit.	The	first	and	most	obvious	took
the	form	of	commissions,	which	ranged,	as	we	have	seen,	from	as	much	as	8	per
cent	to	as	little	as	zero.	The	second—potentially	more	lucrative	but	also	riskier
—lay	in	exploiting	the	often	rapid	and	large	exchange	rate	movements	which
occurred	in	this	period.	This	was	how	the	otherwise	unattractive	Prussian
transfer	was	made	to	yield	a	profit;	and	it	seems	to	have	been	attempted	on	most
of	the	other	transfers	too.	Essentially,	the	brothers	were	able	to	take	advantage	of
the	variations	in	exchange	rates	from	place	to	place,	which	reflected	the	absence
—especially	pronounced	in	wartime—of	an	integrated	European	foreign
exchange	market,	and	the	effects	of	political	uncertainty—also	at	a	peak	in	1814-
15.	On	a	given	day,	a	draft	or	bill	denominated	in	sterling	might	be	worth	quite
different	amounts	in	terms	of	gulden	in	London,	Amsterdam	and	Frankfurt.
Arbitrage	transactions	sought	to	exploit	those	differences	by	buying	a	currency
cheap	in	one	market	and	selling	it	dear	in	another.	In	the	same	way,	the	exchange
rate	of	the	thaler	or	the	ducat	could	vary	dramatically	within	a	short	space	of
time.	Classic	forward	exchange	speculation	meant	timing	payments	so	that	a
particular	currency	could	be	bought	when	its	exchange	rate	was	weakest	and
sold	when	it	was	strongest.
The	Rothschild	brothers	were	singularly	well	placed	to	carry	out	such
transactions.	Not	only	did	they	have	permanent	bases	in	Frankfurt	and	London
and	semi-permanent	offices	in	Amsterdam	and	Paris;	individual	brothers	also
continued	to	undertake	business	trips	as	far	afield	as	Berlin	and	Prague.
Moreover,	thanks	to	their	relationship	with	Herries,	they	had	a	large	advantage
over	their	competitors.	For	one	of	the	main	
causes
	of	volatility	on	the	foreign
exchanges	was	the	very	transfers	of	money	from	Britain	to	the	continent	which
the	Rothschilds	themselves	were	being	asked	to	undertake.	Long	before	1814,
British	observers	had	realised	that	large	purchases	of	foreign	currency	with
sterling	bills	tended	to	cause	the	pound	to	depreciate.	The	bigger	the	deficit	on
the	British	balance	of	payments—in	effect,	the	more	such	unrequited	subsidy

--- Page 136 ---
payments	had	to	be	made—the	more	the	pound’s	exchange	rate	slid.	It	was
precisely	Nathan’s	commitment	to	Herries	to	undertake	the	transfers	with	the
minimum	exchange	rate	depreciation	which	secured	him	the	subsidy	business	in
the	first	place;	and	the	brothers	never	ceased	to	draw	Herries’s	attention	to	their
success	in	this	regard.	(This	was	what	James	was	driving	at	when	he	described
the	first	major	Russian	transfer	as	a	“masterpiece”	from	the	British	point	of
view.)	At	
the	same	time,	however,	the	Rothschilds	were	able	to	derive
substantial	benefits	for	themselves	by	exploiting	the	effects	of	their	transactions
on	the	various	currency	markets.
The	key	lay	in	controlling	the	sterling	exchange	rate,	and	this	was	in	many
ways	the	brothers’	principal	concern	in	this	period.	As	early	as	June	1811,	when
they	were	first	engaged	in	smuggling	bullion	across	the	Channel,	Amschel
accused	James	of	“forcing	the	rate	of	exchange	in	Jerusalem	[London]	too	high”
(meaning,	in	fact,	that	the	pound	was	falling	against	the	franc);	and	James’s
letters	to	Nathan	the	following	year	frequently	refer	to	his	efforts	to	keep	the
franc	from	rising.	“It	is	impossible,”	he	assured	Nathan,	“to	do	more	than	I	do	to
keep	[the	exchange]	so	low	as	possible.”	These	early	experiences	explain	the
success	with	which	the	Rothschilds	avoided	substantial	depreciation	when
transferring	larger	sums	for	Herries.	To	Herries’s	surprise	and	satisfaction,
Nathan	was	able	to	disburse	as	much	as	“£700,000	in	the	purchase	of	bills	on
Holland	and	Frankfurt,	without	its	having	produced	the	smallest	effect	or	excited
any	sensation	on	the	market	.	.	.	The	exchange	is	better	now	than	when	the
operation	commmenced	.	.	.	I	am	convinced	that	£100,000	negotiated	by	a
foreign	minister	or	an	officer	of	the	commissariat	would	have	produced	ten	times
the	effect	of	Rothschild’s	operations.”	The	fall	of	Paris	to	the	Allied	armies
naturally	strengthened	the	pound,	but	the	continued	payment	of	subsidies	soon
threatened	to	weaken	it	again.	For	this	reason,	the	Rothschilds	intervened	to	push
it	up	further.	By	now	the	markets	were	tending	to	follow	the	Rothschild	lead.	As
Carl	noted:	“When	we	buy,	everybody	buys.”	This	reflected	the	widespread
belief	that	the	Rothschilds	were	acting	“on	behalf	of	the	English	government	and
that	this	is	being	done	in	order	to	force	the	rate	of	the	pound	sterling	up	[and]	.	.	.
that	we	succeeded	very	well	in	doing	so.”
In	reality,	of	course,	the	Rothschilds	had	reasons	of	their	own	for	holding	up
the	pound.	With	movements	of	sterling	more	or	less	predictable,	it	was	possible
to	engage	in	profitable	arbitrage	on	the	back	of	the	big	subsidy	transfers.	In	May
1814,	for	example,	Salomon	drew	Nathan’s	attention	to	the	substantial	gap
between	the	Paris	and	London	gold	quotations.	A	month	later	it	was	Nathan’s

--- Page 137 ---
turn	to	urge	James	to	buy	undervalued	pounds	in	Frankfurt.	The	subsidy
payments	to	Gervais	generated	a	succession	of	profits	from	exchange	rate
differences.	For	example,	Amschel	went	to	Berlin	in	July	to	take	advantage	of
the	premium	on	ducats	over	louis	d’or.	The	ducats	which	were	delivered	to
Gervais	in	August	and	September	had	been	bought	by	James	at	a	lower	price	in
Amsterdam,	yielding	an	extra	profit	of	some	4	per	cent.
Such	transactions	probably	accounted	for	the	lion’s	share	of	the	profits	the
Rothschilds	made	in	this	decisive	period.	Amschel	was	only	half	joking	when,
during	the	post-war	surge	in	sterling,	he	wrote	urging	Salomon:	“Do	your	stuff,
make	the	Frankfurt	house	richer	by	a	million	francs,	the	Paris	house	richer	by	a
million	louis	d’or	and	the	London	house	richer	by	a	million	pounds,	and	you’ll
be	awarded	the	order	of	the	
Grande	Armee
!”	Yet	it	must	be	stressed	that	this	was
a	strategy	fraught	with	risk.	It	was	exceedingly	difficult	to	accumulate	the	cash
necessary	to	carry	out	the	subsidy	transfers	to	Russia	and	Prussia	on	time.	The
Frankfurt	house	found	its	sources	of	credit	all	but	exhausted	on	more	than	one
occasion,	and	Carl	and	Amschel	frequently	complained	that	Nathan	was	biting
off	more	than	they	could	chew.	Raising	sums	of	the	order	of	600,000	gulden
was,	as	Carl	complained,	“no	
joke.”	At	the	same	time,	the	governments
concerned	in	the	subsidy	transfers	naturally	resented	the	fact	that	the	Rothschilds
were	making	these	large	profits	on	the	side.	Even	Herries	and	Gervais	on
occasion	complained	about	what	was	going	on,	while	the	Prussian	government
managed	to	pass	at	least	some	of	the	costs	occasioned	by	the	unexpected	fall	of
the	pound	in	August	back	on	to	the	Rothschilds.	The	exchange	rate	was	also	a
stumbling	block	in	the	negotiations	with	Austria.
Moreover,	the	success	of	arbitrage	and	forward	exchange	operations	hinged
on	rapid	communication.	As	far	as	possible,	the	brothers	sought	to	keep	one
another	abreast	of	news	which	might	affect	the	exchange	markets:	the	impending
payment	of	a	new	subsidy,	the	likelihood	of	further	military	action,	the
imminence	of	the	peace	treaty	being	signed.	And,	as	we	have	seen,	they	were
already	able	to	transmit	such	information	through	their	own	couriers
considerably	faster	than	was	possible	through	official	channels	or	the	regular
post.	Yet	the	time-lags	could	still	be	substantial	and	Nathan	was	constantly	being
urged	to	speed	up	the	system.	When	sterling	surged	by	6	per	cent	in	Amsterdam,
James	wrote	impatiently	for	guidance:
Now,	dear	Nathan,	if	you	think	the	subsidies	are	going	to	stop,	then	you	can	be
sure	that	the	exchange	rate	will	rise	again,	as	there	will	be	fewer	bills.	But	if	you
think	that	there	will	be	further	transfers,	then	the	exchange	[rate]	will	fall	again	.

--- Page 138 ---
.	.	One	simply	no	longer	knows	what	to	do	about	the	exchange	rate.	It	is	terrible
that	you,	dear	brother	Nathan,	don’t	bother	to	write	me	your	opinion,	because
now	it	is	vital	to	know	what	is	going	on	over	there.
So	anxious	was	Amschel	to	have	up-to-date	news	from	London	that	he	asked
Nathan	to	send	his	letters	by	more	than	one	route—via	Paris	and	Amsterdam	as
well	as	Dunkirk—and	to	use	colour-coded	envelopes	so	that	his	contact	at	the
post	office	could	tell	at	a	glance	whether	the	exchange	rate	was	rising	(blue)	or
falling	(red).
And	even	with	the	benefit	of	swift	communications,	it	was	still	possible	to	be
caught	out.	In	July	1814	Nathan	unexpectedly	remitted—“like	a	madman”—
more	than	£100,000	to	his	brothers	in	Frankfurt.	This	caused	the	pound	to	drop
at	once	in	Frankfurt;	and	when	the	slide	persisted	into	August	and	spread	to
Amsterdam,	a	“depressed”	Carl	began	to	fear	that	Nathan	had	lost	control	of	the
market.	Salomon	nervously	warned	Nathan	not	to	“bring	the	pound	below	a
certain	level”:	“If	you	are	not	careful	you	will	not	remain	the	master	of	the	Stock
Exchange.”	Even	as	matters	stood,	confidence	in	sterling	on	the	continent	had
been	badly	damaged.	These	anxieties	were	merely	compounded	by	Amschel’s
continuing	confidence	(which	may	have	been	due	to	the	fact	that,	just	as	he	had
feared,	bad	news	had	not	reached	him	soon	enough).	It	was	time,	Carl	felt,	to
stop	speculating	in	sterling:
But	if	you	were	to	write	about	this	to	Amschel	[in	Berlin]	he	would	do	exactly
the	contrary	and	would	buy	sterling	immediately	without	thinking	things	over
first.	No	one	on	earth	can	imagine	what	I	have	to	go	through.	Immediately	after
his	arrival	in	Leipzig	he	proceeded	to	purchase	£10,000	at	136.	His	opinion	is
that	the	pound	will	rise	to	140	but	if	it	were	to	reach	140	he	still	would	not	be
able	to	decide	whether	he	could	sell	or	not.	He	would	maintain	the	fact	that	it
would	rise	to	150	and	so	forth	.	.	.	If	therefore	you	write	to	him,	have	a	fixed	.	.	.
amount	in	your	mind	and	tell	him	half	of	it,	as	he	will	no	doubt	buy	more	in	any
case.
When	Amschel	realised	his	mistake,	he	found	it	“astonishing”—the	more	so	as
he	was	held	responsible	for	the	fall	of	sterling	in	Berlin!	“Could	I	have	been
more	careful?”	he	retorted,	stung	by	his	brothers’	criticisms.	“You	really	want	to
be	able	to	go	out	in	the	rain	without	getting	wet.”	Salomon’s	gloomy	conclusion
was	that	Nathan	had	overreached	himself:	“No	man	on	earth	can	at	any	time	fix
the	rate	of	the	pound	except	a	government	which	would	be	ready	to	risk	half	a
million	pounds	during	one	year	in	order	to	carry	out	a	monetary	plan	.	.	.	I	do	not

--- Page 139 ---
think	there	is	any	point	in	buying	sterling	for	the	purpose	of	keeping	the	rate	of
the	pound	from	falling,	because	there	is	too	much	of	this	currency	already	in	the
world.”	James	even	suggested	a	change	of	strategy:	running	up	sterling	debts	on
the	assumption	of	continuing	depreciation.	It	was	only	gradually—and	with
Nathan	“operating	.	.	.	as	much	as	lies	in	my	power”	to	push	the	rate	back	up—
that	the	brothers	recovered	their	confidence	in	the	pound.	By	November	James
found	that	it	was	once	again	enough	for	him	“to	put	in	an	appearance”	at	the
Hamburg	stock	exchange	for	the	pound	to	rise,	and	the	same	was	true	when	he
visited	Berlin	early	in	the	New	Year.
3
	
By	February	he	could	confidently	report	to
Nathan:	“It	depends	solely	on	me	whether	the	pound	rises	or	falls	in	Paris.”
There	was	another	(and	not	dissimilar)	way	of	profiting	indirectly	from	the
subsidy	business:	by	speculating	on	fluctuations	in	bond	prices.	Like	exchange
rates,	bond	prices	were	highly	sensitive	to	large	international	transfers,	as	well	as
to	related	political	developments.	For	example:	the	price	of	Russian	bonds	had
plummeted	from	65	per	cent	of	their	face	value	to	just	25	between	February	and
October	1812,	for	the	reason	that	the	French	invasion	had	led	to	the	suspension
of	interest	payments	on	the	government	debt.	News	of	the	retreat	from	Moscow
led	to	a	rally:	on	November	30	they	were	quoted	at	35	in	Amsterdam	and	by
March	1813	they	had	risen	to	50,	only	to	fall	back	to	41	in	June	on	news	of
Napoleon’s	victories	in	Saxony.	As	the	prospect	of	an	Allied	victory	neared,	so
Russian	bonds	rallied,	with	the	payment	of	subsidies	from	Britain	strongly
implying	an	imminent	resumption	of	interest	payments.	It	therefore	made	sense
for	anyone	who	anticipated	the	defeat	of	France	to	buy	the	bonds	of	states	allied
to	Britain	while	they	were	still	in	the	doldrums.	The	Rothschilds	attempted	to	do
so,	albeit	rather	late	in	the	day.	By	the	time	Nathan	sent	his	brother-in-law	Moses
Montefiore	to	Paris	with	instructions	to	make	some	speculative	purchases,
Russian	bonds	were	already	close	to	par.	Nevertheless,	James	was	convinced
that	they	would	go	higher,	having	received	information	(from	Gervais)	that
interest	payments	would	soon	be	resumed.	Amschel	also	made	purchases	of
modest	amounts	of	bonds	from	neighbouring	German	states	that	August.	And	in
March	1815	Rothschild	purchases	based	on	similar	calculations	pushed	up	the
price	of	Austrian	bonds.	However,	it	seems	that	much	less	money	was	made
from	these	transactions	than	from	arbitrage	and	foreign	exchange	speculation,
which	were	on	a	much	larger	scale.	Indeed,	the	last	bond	purchases	very
probably	led	to	considerable	losses—for	reasons	which	will	become	clear.
	
Nathan’s	Waterloo

--- Page 140 ---
As	soon	as	the	French	had	been	defeated,	of	course,	and	Napoleon	exiled	to
Elba,	the	end	of	the	subsidy	business	was	in	sight—or	seemed	to	be.	Nor	did	any
major	new	money-making	opportunity	present	itself.	The	French	financial
position	in	1814	appeared	to	preclude	the	payment	of	reparations.	Although	the
debts	of	the	
French	state	accumulated	in	the	period	before	around	1800	had	been
largely	wiped	out	by	the	assignat	inflation,	Napoleon’s	wars	had	run	up	a	new
internal	debt	of	1.27	billion	francs	and	rentes	perpétuelles	(the	French	equivalent
of	British	consols)	stood	at	around	58	(that	is,	42	per	cent	below	par).	Napoleon
had	succeeded	in	reforming	the	currency,	giving	a	monopoly	on	note	issue	to	the
Banque	de	France	and	effectively	placing	the	new	franc	on	a	bimetallic	(gold
and	silver)	standard.	But	by	1814	the	reserves	of	precious	metal	in	Paris	were
severely	depleted.	The	most	the	victorious	Allies	therefore	asked	of	the	restored
Bourbon	regime	was	a	modest	contribution	to	the	costs	of	the	military
occupation	of	France	in	the	form	of	interest-bearing	bons	royaux.	The
Rothschilds	might	have	expected	to	play	a	major	part	in	these	transactions,	given
their	dominant	role	in	the	British	subsidy	transfers.	But	they	were	disappointed.
Although	they	seem	to	have	handled	some	franc-denominated	payments	to
Russia,	their	bid	to	convert	the	Austrian	share	of	the	bons	royaux	into	cash	for	a
commission	of	0.5	per	cent	was	rejected,	as	were	later	proposals	to	the	other
Allied	powers.
For	this	reason,	it	is	tempting	to	see	Napoleon’s	return	from	Elba	on	March	1,
1815,	as	an	immense	stroke	of	luck	for	the	Rothschilds.	Just	as	the	brothers
appeared	to	be	losing	the	peace,	Bonaparte’s	“Hundred	Days”	plunged	Europe
back	into	war,	restoring	the	financial	conditions	in	which	the	Rothschilds	had
hitherto	thrived.	This	idea	that	Nathan	profited	from	the	dramatic	events	of	1815
is	central	to	Rothschild	mythology:	it	has	been	repeatedly	claimed	that,	by
obtaining	the	first	news	of	Napoleon’s	defeat	at	Waterloo—before	even	the
government	itself—Nathan	was	able	to	make	a	huge	sum	of	money	on	the	Stock
Exchange.	The	more	fabulous	elements	of	the	myth—Nathan’s	presence	at	the
battle	itself,	his	riding	alongside	Wellington,	his	stormy	night	crossing	from
Ostend	to	Dover,	his	profits	of	between	£20	and	£135	million—have	long	ago
been	debunked.	Nevertheless,	historians—including	Victor	Rothschild	himself—
have	continued	to	assume	that	the	Rothschilds	benefited	at	least	to	some	extent
from	the	resumption	of	war	and	the	final	Allied	victory.	Even	if	the	money	made
from	buying	British	government	stock	immediately	after	the	battle	can	have
amounted	to	little	more	than	£10,000,	their	total	profits	from	the	Waterloo
campaign	have	been	estimated	at	around	a	million	pounds.

--- Page 141 ---
The	real	story	is	very	different.	It	is	true	that	the	resumption	of	war	
appeared
to	promise	a	return	to	the	lucrative	business	conditions	of	1814—but	not	because
of	its	effect	on	consols,	which,	as	we	have	seen,	had	hitherto	been	of	relatively
minor	importance	to	Nathan.	(It	was	the	Barings	who	were	once	again	given
responsibility	for	a	new	issue	of	gilts	in	1815.)	Rather,	it	was	to	a	resumption	of
his	previous	business	with	Herries	that	he	now	looked,	on	the	assumption	that
Napoleon’s	return	would	create	the	same	urgent	need	for	transfers	of	money
from	England	to	the	continent	as	the	year	before.	Up	to	a	point,	this	was
perfectly	correct.	But	the	Rothschild	correspondence	reveals	that	the	resumption
of	payments	to	Wellington	and	to	Britain’s	continental	allies	proved	a	source	of
far	less	easy	pickings	than	in	1814.	Indeed,	it	is	possible	that	a	series	of
miscalculations	by	the	brothers	led	to	losses	rather	than	profits	in	the	critical
period	before	and	after	Waterloo.	On	this	occasion,	it	seems,	reality	is
diametrically	opposite	to	myth.
To	begin	with,	Napoleon’s	return	was,	as	Nathan	put	it,	nothing	but
“unpleasant	news”	for	the	Rothschilds.	Early	March	had	seen	the	brothers
buying	Austrian	
stocks	in	the	expectation	of	a	bull	market	in	both	Vienna	and
London.	When	the	news	of	the	escape	from	Elba	reached	Nathan	on	March	10,
this	prospect	evaporated.	There	was,	he	informed	Salomon,	“stagnation	on
’Change	.	.	.	in	the	bill	way,	and	I	am	prevented	from	making	you	a	large
remittance.”	The	effect	on	Paris	was	even	worse:	“It	is	practically	not	possible	to
continue	business	at	present,”	reported	James.	True,	Nathan	was	quick	to
reorientate	his	operations.	On	the	assumption	that	the	British	government	would
soon	once	again	need	cash	on	the	continent,	he	began	buying	up	bullion	in
London,	which	he	then	sold	to	Herries	for	shipment	to	Wellington.	Immense
sums	were	involved:	in	the	first	week	of	April	alone,	Nathan	bought	“100,000
guineas	gold,	£50,000	foreign	and	upwards	of	100,000	Spanish	dollars	and	.	.	.
nearly	£200,000	good	bills.”	To	maximise	the	amount	he	could	offer	Herries,
Nathan	also	sent	Salomon	to	Amsterdam	and	James	to	Hamburg	with	orders	“to
purchase	plenty	of	gold	for	the	armies”	and	send	it	to	London.	The	first	shipment
to	the	continent—three	ingots	worth	around	£3,000—was	despatched	on	April	4;
around	£28,000	followed	on	May	1,	and	by	June	13	more	than	£250,000	had
been	sent.	On	April	22	Nathan	sold	Herries	gold	worth	around	£80,000;	by
October	20	he	had	provided	gold	coins	worth	a	total	of	£2,136,916—enough	to
fill	884	boxes	and	55	casks.	In	addition,	he	offered	his	services	again	to	relay	a
new	tranche	of	subsidies	to	Britain’s	allies,	which	at	their	peak	reached	the
unprecedented	level	of	a	million	pounds	a	month.	This	time,	not	only	Russia	and

--- Page 142 ---
Prussia	but	the	previously	aloof	Austrians	found	they	had	little	option	but	to
accept	payment	from	the	Rothschilds—as	did	a	gaggle	of	other	states,	including
Saxony,	Baden,	Württemberg,	Bavaria,	Saxe-Weimar,	Hesse,	Denmark	and
Sardinia.	Altogether,	Herries’s	account	with	Nathan	in	1815	amounted	to
£9,789,778.
4
Assuming	that	the	commissions	charged	for	these	transfers	were,	as	in	1814,
somewhere	between	2	and	6	per	cent,	that	figure	might	seem	to	imply	profits	in
the	region	of	£390,000.	However,	this	overlooks	the	role	of	exchange	rate
fluctuations	which,	as	in	1814,	were	the	key	to	the	profitability	of	the	transfer
payments.	The	immediate	impact	of	Nathan’s	bullion	purchases	in	London	was
to	weaken	sterling,	pushing	up	the	price	of	gold	by	as	much	as	23	per	cent.	This
represented	a	major	gamble,	as	it	remained	uncertain	throughout	March	whether
Britain	would	in	fact	go	to	war	against	Bonaparte	once	more.	(Had	it	been
postponed,	Nathan	might	have	found	himself	with	a	large	stock	of	unwanted	and
depreciating	bullion.)	When	the	decision	for	war	was	finally	confirmed,	Nathan
sought	once	again	to	strengthen	sterling’s	exchange	rate	with	the	continental
currencies—he	was	duly	credited	with	pushing	the	pound	up	from	17.50	francs
to	the	pound	to	22.	The	Rothschilds’	“commanding	general”	was	now	quite
confident	of	his	ability	to	control	the	exchanges:	“You	need	be	under	no
uneasiness	from	anywhere,”	he	told	James.	“Our	resources	here	are	like	lions,
equal	if	not	superior	to	all	and	every	demand.”	He	was	equally	sanguine	in	a
letter	to	Carl:	“I	am	not	limited	to	a	trifling	difference	in	the	exchange	.	.	.	which
will	give	me	great	command	over	the	market.”	Nathan	was	also	convinced	that
his	latest	agreement	with	Herries	was	effectively	risk-free,	as	it	provided	for
immediate	reimbursement	of	every	amount	sent	to	the	continent	(where
previously	he	had	advanced	the	government	considerable	sums).
But	he	miscalculated	in	two	vital	respects:	in	assuming	that	it	would	take
another	lengthy	war	to	defeat	Napoleon,	and	in	assuming	that	the	financial
paralysis	which	had	prevailed	on	the	continent	a	year	before	would	quickly
return,	leaving	the	field	
empty	of	competition.	In	fact,	barely	three	months
elapsed	between	the	return	from	Elba	and	the	defeat	at	Waterloo,	and	for	the	first
two	of	these	there	was	minimal	military	action.	As	a	consequence,	the
Rothschilds’	rivals	in	Amsterdam,	Hamburg	and	Frankfurt	were	able	to	compete
in	the	money	markets	in	a	way	they	had	not	in	1814.	The	first	signs	of	trouble
came	in	Hamburg,	where—to	Nathan’s	dismay—James	found	himself	unable	to
hold	up	the	exchange	rate	in	his	purchases	of	bullion.	Then	from	Amsterdam	it
was	reported	that	Wellington	had	more	bullion	than	he	knew	what	to	do	with,	so

--- Page 143 ---
that	on	May	5	Nathan	“received	orders	from	Government	this	day	to	desist	in	my
operations	owing	to	your	having	sent	off	so	much	specie.”	Furiously,	he	laid	the
blame	on	James:
I	certainly	feel	at	a	loss	to	understand	the	reason	you	cannot	follow	the
instructions	I	have	so	repeatedly	given	you	.	.	.	I	am	certain	you	cannot	be	aware
of	the	injury	you	are	doing	me	.	.	.	by	your	inattention	I	have	lost	at	least	⅞	of
the	business	I	expected	.	.	.	What	do	you	suppose	will	be	the	result	
for	they	are
not	my	orders	but	Government’s
	as	I	before	mentioned	and	I	am	continually
blamed.	I	beg	of	you	to	do	nothing	whatever	for	the	present	in	purchasing	coins
or	bills	to	draw	on	London	a	single	bill,	and	if	you	do	I	shall	not	countenance
your	operations	in	any	way	whatever,	and	will	not	accept	the	bills,	but	let	them
be	returned	protested	to	you.	I	hope	I	shall	not	have	occasion	to	repeat	this.
Yet	it	was	hardly	James’s	fault.	It	was	simply—as	Davidson	pointed	out—that	he
was	being	undercut	by	continental	bankers	like	Heckscher	who	discerned	the
absurdity	of	the	Rothschilds’	shipping	gold	from	Hamburg	and	Amsterdam	to
London	only	to	ship	it	back	to	the	continent:
When	I	left	London,	Mr	R,	the	Commissary	in	Chief	in	fact	everyone	was
anxious	that	as	much	bullion	might	be	obtained	as	possibly	might	be	done.	To
execute	this	order	there	was	no	alternative	but	to	draw	on	London.	Things	have
since	taken	a	different	turn,	and	the	long	expected	war	remains	hitherto	only	in
preparation,	and	no	actual	war	having	commenced,	has	the	effect	that	bullion	can
be	collected	fom	all	quarters.	Moreover	the	Houses	which	at	the	time	when	Bony
recaptured	France	had	no	desire	to	be	connected	in	that	line	of	business,	appear
more	anxious	to	receive	a	share	thereof.
James—despatched	back	to	Paris	in	disgrace—and	Salomon,	now	joined	in
Amsterdam	by	Carl,	struggled	to	reverse	the	slide	of	sterling,	but	the	damage
had	been	done.
It	was	at	this	juncture	that	the	military	situation	came	to	its	epoch-ending
climax	at	Waterloo.	No	doubt	it	was	gratifying	to	receive	the	news	of	Napoleon’s
defeat	first,	thanks	to	the	speed	with	which	Rothschild	couriers	were	able	to
relay	a	newspaper	version	of	the	fifth	and	conclusive	extraordinary	bulletin—
issued	in	Brussels	at	midnight	on	June	18—via	Dunkirk	and	Deal	to	reach	New
Court	on	the	night	the	19th.	This	was	just	twenty-four	hours	after	Wellington’s
victorious	meeting	with	Blücher	on	the	battlefield	and	nearly	forty-eight	hours
before	Major	Henry	Percy	delivered	Wellington’s	official	dispatch	to	the	Cabinet

--- Page 144 ---
as	its	members	dined	at	Lord	Harrowby’s	house	(at	11	p.m.	on	the	21st).	Indeed,
so	premature	did	Nathan’s	information	appear	that	it	was	not	believed	when	he
relayed	it	to	the	government	on	the	
20th;	nor	was	a	second	Rothschild	courier
from	Ghent.
5
	But	no	matter	how	early	it	reached	him,	the	news	of	Waterloo	was
anything	but	good	from	Nathan’s	point	of	view.	He	had	expected	nothing	as
decisive	so	soon;	indeed,	just	five	days	before	the	battle,	he	had	arranged	a	new
million	pound	loan	for	the	British	government	in	Amsterdam,	and	was	in	the
middle	of	organising	a	subsidy	payment	to	Baden	even	as	his	courier	neared
London.	Now	Waterloo	threatened	to	bring	his	financial	operations	on	behalf	of
the	anti-French	coalition	to	a	premature	and	highly	inconvenient	end.	For	the
brothers	were	encumbered	not	only	with	substantial	amounts	of	depreciating
bullion,	but	also	with	over	a	million	pounds’	worth	of	treasury	bills	to	be	sold	in
Amsterdam,	to	say	nothing	of	a	succession	of	half-finished	subsidy	contracts
which	would	cease	the	moment	a	peace	treaty	was	signed.	As	reports	reached
New	Court	confirming	that	the	end	of	the	war	was	imminent,	Nathan	was	faced
not	with	the	immense	profits	of	legend	but	with	heavy	and	growing	losses.	John
Roworth,	his	agent	with	the	British	army,	described	a	gruelling	journey	on	foot
from	Mons	to	Genappe,	walking	by	day	“in	the	midst	of	a	cloud	of	dust	under	a
burning	and	scorching	sun”	and	sleeping	at	night	“under	the	cannon’s	mouth	on
the	ground.”	But	when	he	finally	caught	up	with	Wellington’s	Commissary-
General	Dunmore,	he	was	handed	back	unwanted	Prussian	coins	worth
£230,000.
Although	Nathan	told	his	brothers	to	carry	on	delivering	specie	to
Wellington’s	military	chest,	the	business	had	ceased	to	be	viable.	Towards	the
end	of	July	an	“alarmed”	Carl	temporarily	halted	payments	to	the	military	chest.
Two	months	later	James	found	himself	so	strapped	for	cash	that	he	had	to	do	the
same.	Amschel,	by	contrast,	was	“swimming”	in	money	in	Frankfurt,	but	money
which	no	one	needed.	As	Carl	admitted,	“Now	we	don’t	need	money	for	the
army,	as	the	army	has	enough.”	By	the	end	of	the	year	James	was	reduced	to
offering	Drummond	deposit	facilities	in	Paris	in	an	attempt	to	get	some	of	the
specie	back—a	suggestion	which	was	curtly	rejected.	Even	bigger	difficulties
arose	in	Amsterdam,	where	Carl	found	himself	unable	to	sell	the	British	treasury
bills	at	the	relatively	modest	discount	agreed	between	Nathan	and	Herries.
Indeed,	the	sudden	advent	of	peace	had	made	the	Amsterdam	market	so	liquid
that	such	long-dated	bills	could	scarcely	be	sold	at	all,	precipitating	another
round	of	ill-tempered	recrimination	between	the	brothers.
6
	The	French	collapse
also	had	a	disruptive	impact	on	the	subsidy	business.	In	Berlin,	James’s

--- Page 145 ---
negotiations	with	the	Prussian	government	were	thrown	into	confusion	as	the
news	of	Waterloo	caused	a	surge	in	the	sterling	exchange	rate.	Other	German
states	quickly	began	demanding	more	generous	exchange	rates	for	their	subsidy
payments.	To	compound	the	brothers’	misery	came	news	of	a	family	tragedy:	the
death	of	their	sister	Julie	at	the	age	of	thirty-five.	“I	feel	my	spirits	very
depressed	indeed,”	Nathan	confessed	to	Carl	just	two	weeks	after	Waterloo,	“and
[am]	by	no	means	able	to	attend	to	business	as	I	could	wish.	The	melancholy
communication	of	the	death	of	my	sister	has	entirely	unhinged	my	mind	and
have	done	but	very	little	business	today	on	that	account.”	Far	from	being	hugely
profitable,	the	aftermath	of	Wellington’s	victory	was	a	period	of	acute	crisis	for
the	Rothschilds.
In	London,	a	frantic	Nathan	sought	to	make	good	the	damage;	and	it	is	in	this
context	that	the	firm’s	purchases	of	British	stocks	have	to	be	seen.	On	July	20,
the	evening	edition	of	the	London	
Courier
	reported	that	Nathan	had	made	“great
purchases	of	stock.”	A	week	later	Roworth	heard	that	Nathan	had	“done	well	by
the	
early	information	which	you	had	of	the	Victory	gained	at	Waterloo”	and
asked	to	participate	in	any	further	purchases	of	government	stock	“if	in	your
opinion	you	think	any	good	can	be	done.”	This	would	seem	to	confirm	the	view
that	Nathan	did	indeed	buy	consols	on	the	strength	of	his	prior	knowledge	of	the
battle’s	outcome.	However,	the	gains	made	in	this	way	cannot	have	been	very
great.	As	Victor	Rothschild	conclusively	demonstrated,	the	recovery	of	consols
from	their	nadir	of	53	in	fact	predated	Waterloo	by	over	a	week,	and	even	if
Nathan	had	made	the	maximum	possible	purchase	of	£20,000	on	June	20,	when
consols	stood	at	56.5	and	sold	a	week	later	when	they	stood	at	60.5,	his	profits
would	barely	have	exceeded	£7,000.	Much	the	same	can	be	said	of	Omnium
(another	form	of	government	bond),	which	rose	eight	points	on	the	news	of
victory.	In	fact,	the	brothers’	correspondence	suggests	that	such	purchases	were
not	made	on	a	large	scale	until	some	time	later,	in	the	period	before	the	Paris
peace	treaty	was	finally	signed.	An	unusually	anxious	letter	from	Nathan
suggests	that	even	these	were	nerve-racking	speculations,	dependent	as	they
were	on	the	assumption	that	this	time	the	French	would	not	seek	to	resist	the
peace	terms:
Everything	is	going	well,	so	help	me	God,	better	[even]	than	you	would	imagine.
I	am	quite	pleased.	I	went	to	see	Herries,	he	made	me	feel	.	.	.	well.	He	swears
that	everything	is	going	well.	I	bought	stock	at	61⅛	and	61½	and	Herries	swears
.	.	.	that	everything	is	going	well,	with	God’s	help	.	.	.	We	are	all	in	better	spirits.
I	hope	it	will	have	the	same	effect	on	you.

--- Page 146 ---
According	to	Salomon,	Nathan	had	also	purchased	around	£450,000	of
Omnium	funds	at	107;	if	he	had	followed	his	brother’s	advice	and	sold	at	120,
his	profit	would	have	been	around	£58,000.	But	this	evidently	did	not	strike	him
as	a	significant	sum;	he	fretted	at	having	bought	too	few	in	the	first	place,	and
held	on	for	higher	prices	in	the	new	year.	Indeed,	it	may	not	have	been	until
quite	late	in	1816	that	Nathan	made	perhaps	his	most	successful	speculation	in
stocks	to	date:	the	purchase	of	£650,000	at	an	average	price	of	62,	much	of
which	he	sold	in	November	1817	at	82.75,	yielding	a	profit	of	£130,000.
However,	this	was	not	his	to	keep,	as	the	original	investment	had	been	made
with	government	funds	at	Herries’s	suggestion.
A	second	and	more	important	way	of	recouping	some	of	the	losses	caused	by
Waterloo	lay	in	prolonging	for	as	long	as	possible	the	subsidy	payments	to
Britain’s	allies.	In	this,	the	Rothschilds	had	invaluable	accomplices	in	the	Allied
powers	themselves,	who	naturally	wished	to	pocket	as	much	as	they	could
before	peace	was	signed	and	the	subsidies	ceased.	In	October	the	Prussian
representative	Jordan	privately	admitted	that	the	continental	powers	were
spinning	out	the	negotiations	to	secure	an	extra	month’s	subsidy;	a	gift	of	£1,100
in	British	stocks	ensured	that	the	Rothschilds	handled	the	payment.	Another
amenable	official	was,	as	before,	the	Russian	Gervais,	who	received	a	generous
cut	(2	per	cent)	of	the	subsidy	business	he	sent	the	Rothschilds’	way.	“The	main
thing,”	reported	James	from	Paris,	“is	that	Gervais,	thank	God,	had	been	made
Commissar	in	Chief	for	everything.	Yesterday	he	said	to	me:	‘Rothschild,	we
must	make	money!’	”	The	previously	wary	Austrian	government	too	(thanks
partly	to	lobbying	by	Limburger)	now	entrusted	some	of	its	subsidy	business	to
the	Rothschilds.	As	Carl	observed,	it	was	“not	easy	to	do	business	
with	the
Austrians	.	.	.	but	once	you	have	their	confidence	you	can	depend	upon	it.”	On
the	other	hand,	the	increase	of	competition	on	the	continent	reduced	the
commissions	which	could	be	charged,	and	it	was	harder	to	make	money	on	the
side	from	arbitrage.	Some	governments—for	example,	that	of	Saxe-Weimar—
were	eager	to	avoid	“falling	completely	and	utterly	into	the	hands	of	Mr
Rothschild,	who	is,	after	all,	a	Jew.”	The	brothers	repeatedly	alluded	to	the
meagreness	of	the	profits	(often	as	little	as	1	per	cent)	they	were	making	in	this
period,	and	it	seems	questionable	whether	the	various	petty	German	states	which
Amschel	provided	with	subsidy	payments—including	Frankfurt	as	well	as	Saxe-
Coburg	and	Coburg-Saarfeld—were	worth	the	“heartbreak”	of	which	he
complained.	Salomon	and	Amschel	were	philosophical:	“You	can’t	make
millions	every	day,”	wrote	the	former	as	negotiations	with	Prussia	dragged	on.

--- Page 147 ---
“Nothing	in	this	world	can	be	forced	to	happen.	Do	what	you	can;	you	can	do	no
more.”	The	whole	world	could	not	“belong	to	Rothschild.”	“Things	here	are	not
the	way	they	are	in	England,	where	transactions	worth	millions	happen	every
week.	For	a	German	100,000	gulden	is	a	big	deal.”	It	is	doubtful	whether	such
fatalism	impressed	their	brother	in	London.
The	summer	of	1815	was	therefore	anything	but	a	time	of	unalloyed	success
for	the	Rothschilds.	The	agreement	drawn	up	in	March	of	that	year	would	seem
to	suggest	that	the	brothers’	collective	assets	had	grown	substantially	since	the
last	balance	sheet	of	1810.	But	no	less	than	two-thirds	of	the	total	capital	in	1815
was	credited	to	Nathan,	and	he	had	not	been	party	to	the	1810	agreement.	Taking
into	account	only	the	shares	of	his	four	brothers,	there	may	in	fact	have	been	a
contraction	in	the	continental	side’s	capital.	Moreover,	this	agreement	predated
the	crisis	of	the	Hundred	Days	and	should	therefore	be	regarded	as	evidence	of
earlier	success	(primarily,	it	seems	reasonable	to	conclude,	the	highly	lucrative
business	done	for	Herries	in	1814).	By	the	summer	of	1816,	it	is	true,	the
brothers	estimated	that	their	combined	capital	amounted	to	between	£900,000
and	£1	million,	implying	a	doubling	of	their	capital	between	March	1815	and
July	1816.	Given	that	the	figure	agreed	between	them	in	June	1818	was
£1,772,000	(a	three-quarters	increase	over	two	years),	this	was	a	remarkable	rate
of	growth.	But	there	is	good	reason	to	doubt	whether	the	period	immediately
after	Waterloo	was	when	the	bulk	of	this	increase	occurred.
The	trouble	is	that	it	is	almost	impossible	to	say	precisely	how	the	Rothschilds
performed	financially	in	this	period	because	they	had	no	idea	themselves.	So
tumultuous	were	the	events	precipitated	by	Napoleon’s	return	from	Elba,	and	so
enormous	the	turnover	of	their	various	transfer	operations	during	1814	and	1815,
that	their	already	rudimentary	accounting	procedures	collapsed	altogether.
The	problem	first	surfaced	in	June	1814,	as	Carl	scrambled	to	raise	the	cash
needed	for	an	especially	large	subsidy	instalment.	The	only	way	he	had	been
able	do	this,	he	complained,	was	by	“swindling”	(issuing	accommodation	bills,
or	bills	unrelated	to	“real”	purchases	of	commodities).	When	James	complained
about	this,	Carl	pointed	out	that	it	was	not	his	responsibility	to	“keep	the	books.”
At	this	stage,	it	was	Salomon	who	was	regarded	as	the	accountant	of	the	family
—the	one	who	could	always	cheer	their	father	up	by	making	him	“on	paper	.	.	.
rich	in	a	minute.”	But	even	he	was	soon	unable	to	keep	track	of	the	immense
commitments	Nathan	was	making	on	his	brothers’	behalf.	By	August	1814	he
and	Amschel	had	to	confess	that	they	were	“completely	confused	and	do	not
know	where	the	money	is.”	“Together	
we	are	all	rich	and	if	all	the	five	of	us	are

--- Page 148 ---
taken	into	consideration	we	are	worth	quite	a	lot,”	wrote	Salomon	anxiously	to
Nathan.	“But	where	is	the	money?”	Nathan’s	(perhaps	rather	acid)	response	was
that	“a	book	[should]	be	kept	where	[Carl]	should	enter	business	rules.”
The	problem	recurred	in	September	1815,	when	the	brothers	on	the	continent
experienced	a	severe	cash-flow	crisis.	“But	dear	Nathan,”	wrote	Salomon,	“you
must	have	a	frightful	amount	of	money	over	there	because	here	I	am	in	debt
[and]	Amschel	hasn’t	much	left	over.	It	must	all	be	over	there	and	[yet]	you
write	that	you	are	so	much	in	debt.	Where	is	our	[cash]	reserve?”	Calculating
that	he	owed	as	much	as	£120,000	in	Paris	alone,	he	repeated	the	question	a	few
days	later:
You	must	have	all	our	money	over	there	with	you.	We	here	are	stinking	poor.	We
haven’t	a	penny	to	spare.	Amschel	has	less	than	a	million	left	and	therefore	the
whole	lot	must	be	with	you,	including	what	we	owe	.	.	.	Work	out	where	the
family	money	is,	my	good	Nathan.	I	don’t	know	.	.	.	Where	is	our	money?	Well,
it’s	just	absurd.	God	willing	it	will	turn	up	when	we	do	the	spring	cleaning!
When	Nathan	wrote	back	suggesting	that	it	was	Amschel	who	was	the	“big	rich
man,”	there	was	something	close	to	panic.
The	problem	was	that	Amschel	had	a	string	of	subsidy	payments	to	make	in
Berlin	and	elsewhere,	and	virtually	no	cash	in	hand,	while	Carl’s	funds	were
almost	entirely	tied	up	in	the	British	treasury	bills	in	Amsterdam.	In	Paris	too	the
position	was	alarmingly	tight.	“This	eternal	indebtedness	is	not	very	pleasant,”
complained	James.	“The	payments	we	have	to	make	are	big,	far	too	big,”	echoed
Salomon.	“Dear	Nathan,	you	write	that	you	have	one	million	or	two	million	over
there.	Well	you	really	must	have,	because	our	brother	Amschel	is	bust.	We	are
bust.	Carl	is	bust.	So	one	of	us	must	have	the	money.”	In	fact,	the	continental
Rothschilds	averted	“bankruptcy”	at	this	time	only	by	means	of	short-term
borrowing	and	by	making	further	use	of	accommodation	bills.	Not	surprisingly,
they	blamed	Nathan	for	their	predicament.	Echoing	their	father’s	earlier
criticisms,	Salomon	bitterly	accused	his	brother	of	mismanagement:	“We	are
relying	on	miracles	and	luck,	and	I	say	to	you	once	again	that	you	don’t	write
clearly	enough.	In	the	name	of	God,	such	important	transactions	have	to	be
carried	out	precisely.	Unfortunately,	there	is	absolutely	no	order	in	the	way	you
deal	with	these.”	Too	much	of	their	accounting	was	being	done	“in	the	head”
instead	of	on	paper.	Was	it	any	wonder	the	Austrian	government	feared	that	the
Rothschilds	might	“go	bankrupt?”
Nathan	tried	to	reassure	his	brothers	that	their	position	was	secure.	But

--- Page 149 ---
Amschel	continued	to	yearn	for	some	tangible	proof	of	the	family’s	wealth.	“You
state	that	I	need	not	enquire	as	to	where	the	money	actually	is,”	he	complained	to
Nathan.	“In	this	respect	I	am	like	little	Anselm	[Salomon’s	son,	then	aged
thirteen]	who	always	inquires	as	to	where	the	money	is.	‘People	say	my	father
possesses	five	millions,’	he	says.	He	would	like	to	see	it	all	in	one	single	heap.”
Were	they	millionaires,	he	demanded	to	know,	or	bankrupts?	The	uncertainty
was	making	him	ill:	“I	have	to	tell	you	that	since	
Sukkoth
	[October	1815]	I	have
not	been	well	and	I	cannot	bear	it	any	longer.	If	you	wish	to	keep	your	brother	in
good	health	then	you	must	try	to	reduce	his	money	worries.	I	have	sacrificed	my
health.	I	have	to	take	it	easy	.	.	.	I	have	
lost	my	spirit	of	speculation.”	They	were,
he	complained,	“living	like	drunkards”:	“We	don’t	know	whether	we	owe	money
to	the	English	Government	or	not.”
To	compound	the	problem,	this	period	of	chaos	came	just	as	Herries	was
facing	allegations	of	“maladministration”	in	the	Commons	and	was	therefore
pressing	Nathan	for	detailed	account	statements.	His	principal	parliamentary
critic,	Alexander	Baring,	had	an	axe	to	grind,	needless	to	say.	On	the	other	hand,
there	was	some	justification	for	his	claim.	In	their	dealings	with	at	least	one
government	(the	Russian)	the	Rothschilds	had	secured	additional	commissions
and	paid	bribes	about	which	Herries	had	not	been	informed.	In	addition,	they
had	made	the	most	of	exchange	rate	differences	during	the	early	phase	of
subsidy	payments.	The	need	to	cook	books	which	were	already	in	a	state	of
some	confusion	no	doubt	explains	the	months	of	prevarication	in	the	face	of
repeated	requests	for	accounts	from	the	“very	particular”	Herries.	Even	if	it
meant	keeping	the	clerks	in	Paris	working	until	midnight,	it	was	vital,	as
Salomon	said,	to	avoid	damaging	the	Rothschilds’	reputation	in	London,	“as
England	is	our	bread	basket.”	So	fearful	was	Nathan	of	a	scandal	that	in	early
1816	he	wrote	to	Amschel	advising	him	not	to	purchase	a	new	house	in
Frankfurt:
I	asked	Herries	and	he	gave	me	a	rather	incomplete	answer	saying	that	I	should
not	go	in	for	luxuries	because	the	papers	would	immediately	commence	writing
against	me	and	officials	here	would	start	questioning	.	.	.	It	would	be	best	to	take
mine	and	Herries’s	advice,	do	not	buy	a	house,	wait	until	my	accounts	are
straight.
Herries	was	already	receiving	disquieting	reports	from	Drummond	in	Paris
about	a	“simulated	transaction”	which	James	assured	him	had	been	necessary	to
avoid	disturbing	the	exchange	rate.	“This	I	dare	say	is	very	true,”	commented

--- Page 150 ---
Drummond	nervously,	“but	on	the	other	hand	in	matters	of	account	that	are	to
come	before	the	auditors	nothing	is	more	to	be	avoided	than	fiction	to	which	a
suspicion	is	always	likely	to	be	attached	.	.	.	Would	it	not	be	a	proper	general
injunction	to	all	accountants	to	
banish	all	fiction
?”	What	Drummond	did	not
know	was	the	extent	of	the	fiction.	When	his	colleague	Dunmore	paid	a	visit	on
James	in	March	1816,	the	latter	confessed:	“My	heart	was	beating	terribly	as	I
was	scared	that	he	might	give	me	the	order	to	send	his	money	to	the	army.”
James	had	in	fact	no	more	than	700,000	francs,	far	less	than	the	sum	Dunmore
could	legitimately	have	demanded.
In	the	end,	none	of	the	brothers	was	equal	to	the	task	of	untangling	the
accounts.	It	was	left	to	Benjamin	Davidson	to	try	to	reconstruct	the	extraordinary
transactions	of	the	previous	year—and	then	to	try	to	conceal	the	numerous
irregularities	which	had	occurred.	The	difficulties	he	confronted	were	daunting.
For	a	start,	none	of	the	brothers	had	yet	adopted	the	system	of	double-entry
book-keeping.	As	Amschel	put	it,	the	Berlin	banker	Mendelssohn	“know[s]	how
he	stands	with	each	of	[his	joint	accounts]	while	in	the	House	of	Rothschild	we
have	to	rely	on	what	the	book	keepers	say.	Gasser	tells	me:	‘We	have	made	nice
profits	on	the	Prussian	transactions’	and	I	have	to	believe	him.”	This	in	itself	is
remarkable:	after	all,	the	double-entry	system	had	first	been	described	by	the
Venetian	Luca	Pacioli	in	1494	and	was	widely	known	in	most	European
countries	by	the	end	of	the	sixteenth	century.	The	fact	that	the	Rothschilds	were
so	slow	to	adopt	it	suggests	that	the	capitalism	of	the	
Frankfurt	Judengasse	was
technically	quite	backward	(though	it	also,	of	course,	suggests	that	business
geniuses	can	do	without	accountants—for	a	time).	Secondly,	there	were
substantial	gaps	in	the	records,	reflecting	the	habits	of	concealment	which	had
developed	in	Frankfurt	and	elsewhere	during	the	period	of	French	occupation.
Thirdly,	there	was	the	problem	of	the	large	profits	which	had	been	made	on
exchange	rate	fluctuations	without	Herries’s	consent.	Finally,	and	most	embar
rassingly,	there	were	the	“fictional”	accommodation	bills	which	had	been	issued,
which	totalled	more	than	£2	million.	As	Davidson	put	it	drily,	“One	should	have
thought	earlier	.	.	.	that	one	day	Herries	[would]	have	to	look	at	these	accounts.”
Fortunately,	Davidson	was	able	to	arrive	at	figures	which	showed	the
government	rather	than	the	Rothschilds	as	the	principal	beneficiary	of	the
subsidy	and	other	payments;	and	in	the	end	Salomon’s	verdict	seems	to	have
been	accepted	by	Liverpool	and	his	colleagues	that	“not	even	a	hundred	banking
houses	would	have	been	able	to	carry	out	a	business	transaction	of	this	size
within	nine	months	and	to	show	a	profit	for	the	government.”	Herries	was

--- Page 151 ---
discharged	honourably	with	a	pension	when	the	office	of	commissary	was
wound	up	in	October	1816	and	a	Commons	motion	to	prevent	his	appointment
as	auditor	of	the	Civil	List	was	defeated.	Nevertheless,	Salomon	was	still	fretting
about	the	accounts	as	late	as	January	1818:
We	are	not	yet	in	the	clear	with	the	government	.	.	.	As	long	as	the	government
leaves	the	accounts	with	Herries	in	suspension,	we	are	not	yet	in	the	clear.	[Are
we]	rich	men	or	are	we	at	ease?	As	far	as	I	can	see,	the	serving	boy	is	more	at
ease	with	the	little	he	has	than	we	are	with	the	great	deal	we	have.	Why?
Because	he	doesn’t	have	a	bungled	account	with	a	government	hanging	round
his	neck	.	.	.
It	is	fair	to	conclude	that	the	huge	profits	of	1814	and	1815	were	made	in	ways
much	more	mysterious—and	hazardous—than	the	traditional	Waterloo	myth
implies.
	
Fraternity
The	idea	of	brotherhood	was	profoundly	important	in	nineteenth-century	Europe.
Freemasons,	liberals	and	later	socialists	all	idealised	the	fraternal	relationship,
creating	a	bewildering	variety	of	associations	which	sought	to	forge	artificial
brotherhoods	beyond	the	narrow	familial	realm.	This	was	nothing	new,	of
course.	Religious	orders	had	done	the	same	for	centuries.	But	“Alle	Menschen
werden	Brüder”	was	a	line	which,	when	penned	by	Schiller	and	set	by
Beethoven,	had	a	thinly	disguised	revolutionary	significance.	As	the	French
Revolution’s	best-known	slogan	implied,	to	imagine	all	men	becoming	brothers
was	as	radical	as	to	imagine	them	all	becoming	free	and	equal.
Contemporaries	often	inferred	from	the	Rothschilds’	extraordinary	success
that	they	exemplified	this	ideal	of	fraternity.	This	was	not	because	it	was
exceptional,	as	it	is	in	Europe	today,	for	a	family	to	produce	five	sons	or,	indeed,
five	daughters,	as	Mayer	Amschel	and	Gutle	Rothschild	also	did.	Francis	Baring
also	had	five	sons.	Indeed,	as	late	as	the	1870s	nearly	a	fifth	(18	per	cent)	of
women	who	married	in	Britain	had	ten	or	more	live	births,	and	more	than	half
had	six	or	more;	the	statistics	for	Germany	are	similar.	What	impressed
contemporaries	was	that	the	Rothschild	brothers	seemed	to	work	together	in
uncommon	harmony.	This	had	been	one	of	the	
points	strongly	emphasised	by
Friedrich	Gentz	in	his	influential	article	for	the	Brockhaus	
Encyclopaedia:
With	the	greatest	conscientiousness,	the	brothers	[have]	obeyed	their	father’s

--- Page 152 ---
heartfelt	deathbed	injunction	to	maintain	unbreakable	unity	and	co-operation	in
all	business	transactions	.	.	.	[E]ach	[business]	proposition	is	the	subject	of	their
joint	deliberations;	every	operation	of	even	moderate	importance	is	carried	out
according	to	an	agreed	plan	and	with	co-ordinated	efforts;	and	all	the	brothers
have	an	equal	share	in	the	results.
Simon	Moritz	von	Bethmann,	their	rival	in	Frankfurt,	echoed	this	view:	“The
harmony	between	the	brothers	contributes	largely	to	their	success.	None	of	them
ever	thinks	of	finding	fault	with	another.	None	of	them	adversely	criticises	any
of	the	others’	business	dealings,	even	when	the	results	do	not	come	up	to
expectations.”	“The	prosperity	of	the	Rothschilds,”	remarked	Benjamin	Disraeli
later,	“was	as	much	owing	to	the	unity	of	feeling	which	alike	pervaded	all
branches	of	that	numerous	family	as	in	their	capital	&	abilities.	They	were	like
an	Arabian	tribe.”	This	soon	hardened	into	the	myth	of	“the	five	Frankfurters.”
As	one	German	writer	put	it	in	the	1830s:
These	five	brothers	together	formed	an	indomitable	phalanx	.	.	.	and,	true	to	their
principle	never	to	undertake	anything	individually	and	to	agree	all	operations
precisely	among	themselves,	always	followed	the	same	system	and	pursued	the
same	goal.
Such	comments	would	have	been	otiose	if	fraternal	harmony	had	been	the
norm;	the	paradox	is	that,	unlike	the	idealised	brotherhood	of	the	poets,	real
brothers	seldom	worked	well	together.	Jews	and	Christians	alike	knew	the	story
of	Joseph	and	his	brothers,	one	of	the	best	biblical	accounts	of	fraternal	strife:
the	hatred	of	Gad	and	Asher	for	their	half-brother,	the	precocious	favourite
Joseph;	the	intense	affection	between	Joseph	and	his	young	brother	Benjamin;
the	ambivalent	feelings	of	Reuben,	the	first	born;	the	violent	confrontation	and
final	reconciliation.	Relations	between	the	Hope	brothers	and	the	Baring
brothers	were	less	turbulent,	but	they	failed	to	transcend	their	personal
differences	in	the	name	of	fraternal	unity.	As	the	Rothschild	brothers	overtook
them	financially,	they	seemed	to	personify	an	elusive	ideal.
In	reality,	however,	brotherly	love	was	far	from	easy	to	maintain	in	the	chaotic
circumstances	of	1814	and	1815.	As	their	resources	were	stretched	by	a
succession	of	huge	and	risky	undertakings,	personal	relations	between	the
Rothschild	brothers	frequently	deteriorated—on	occasion,	to	the	point	of
complete	rupture.	The	main	reason	for	this	was	undoubtedly	Nathan’s
increasingly	imperious	treatment	of	his	supposed	partners	in	the	business.
Technically,	according	to	the	1815	agreement,	the	brothers	were	equals:	profits

--- Page 153 ---
were	divided	equally,	and	Nathan	gave	each	of	them	a	promissory	note	worth
£50,000	to	compensate	for	his	much	larger	share	of	the	capital.	But	as	Salomon
and	others	commented	at	the	time,	the	combination	of	Nathan’s	aggressive
temper	and	the	increasingly	Anglocentric	nature	of	the	firm’s	operations
effectively	reduced	the	other	brothers	to	the	status	of	mere	agents.	Nathan	was,
as	Salomon	half	joked,	“the	commanding	general,”	the	others	were	his
“marshals,”	while	the	sums	of	“capital	resources”	they	had	to	dispose	of	were
“soldiers”	who	had	to	be	“kept	in	readiness.”	The	implied	comparison	with
Napoleon	himself—against	whom,	after	all,	their	financial	operations	were
ultimately	directed—was	a	revealing	one,	and	Nathan’s	brothers	were	not	alone
in	making	it.	As	Swinton	Holland	said	to	his	partner	Alexander	Baring	in	1824:
“I	must	candidly	confess	that	I	have	not	the	nerve	for	his	operations.	They	are
generally	well	planned,	with	great	cleverness	and	adroitness	in	execution—but
he	is	in	money	and	funds	what	Bonaparte	was	in	war,	and	if	any	sudden	shake
comes,	he	will	fall	to	the	ground	like	the	other.”	To	Ludwig	Börne,	Nathan	and
his	brothers	were	all	“Finanzbonaparten,”	and	the	parallel	was	still	being	drawn
by	writers	in	the	1870s.	But	it	was	really	Nathan	who	became	the	Bonaparte	of
the	banking	world,	and	he	shared	with	the	French	Emperor	his	superhuman
appetite	for	risks	and	his	intolerance	of	inept	subordinates.
As	early	as	1811—even	before	their	father’s	death—Nathan’s	brothers	had
begun	to	complain	about	the	occasionally	bullying	tone	of	his	letters.	But	it	was
not	until	the	middle	of	1814	that	he	really	began	to	emerge	as	the	dominant,	not
to	say	domineering,	partner.	The	key	issue	was	his	desire	to	dictate	his	brothers’
movements.	In	June	1814	he	ordered	Salomon	to	go	to	Amsterdam	to	assist
James	and	took	the	opportunity	to	let	fly	at	their	brothers	in	Frankfurt:	“I	tell
you,	Amschel	and	Carl	make	me	damned	upset.	You	have	no	idea	how
idiotically	they	write	and	they	draw	on	me	like	madmen	.	.	.	By	God,	they	write
me	such	idiocies	that	today	I	feel	very	cross.	Amschel	writes	to	James	as	if	he
could	do	the	business	by	himself.”	This	evidently	touched	a	raw	nerve,	and
Davidson’s	appeal	to	Nathan	to	desist	from	“disparaging	correspondence”	came
too	late.	A	distraught	Carl	took	to	his	bed,	warning	that	“if	he	carried	on	in	this
way,”	Nathan	would	“soon	have	a	partner	in	the	other	world,”	so	ill	did	his
letters	make	him	feel.	Salomon	also	complained	of	“severe	pains	in	my	back	and
legs,”	but	his	tone	was	angrier:
I	cannot	for	one	moment	believe	that	even	if	I	were	the	learned	Nathan
Rothschild	I	would	regard	the	other	four	brothers	as	stupid	schoolboys,	and
myself	as	the	only	wise	one	.	.	.	I	do	not	wish	to	be	upset	any	more	and	made

--- Page 154 ---
more	ill	than	I	already	am.	To	put	it	quite	bluntly,	we	are	neither	drunk	nor
stupid.	We	have	something	you	in	London	obviously	do	not	have—we	keep	our
books	in	order	.	.	.	If	my	tears	were	black	I	would	write	a	lot	more	easily	than
with	ink	.	.	.	The	English	mail	day	is	a	regular	terror	for	me.	Every	night	I	dream
of	these	letters	.	.	.	One	just	doesn’t	write	that	way	to	one’s	family,	one’s
brothers,	one’s	partners.
But	all	their	protests	merely	elicited	from	Nathan	a	stark	threat	to	dissolve	the
business:
I	have	to	admit	that	I	was	thoroughly	fed	up	with	the	longwinded	business	and
its	disagreeable	consequences	.	.	.	And	now	from	today	on	.	.	.	I	think	that	it
would	be	best	if	Salomon	would	close	the	Paris	accounts	and	come	to	London.
And	David[son]	can	bring	the	Amsterdam	accounts	with	him.	Then	we	could
clear	up	the	accounts.	I	expect	from	Frankfurt	an	account	[too]	.	.	.	because	I	am
fed	up	with	the	partnership	.	.	.	I	know	that	you	are	all	clever	men	and	now	all
five	of	us	shall	have,	thank	God,	peace.
This	had	the	desired	effect;	henceforth	Nathan	gave	the	orders	more	or	less
unchallenged,	as	Salomon	acknowledged	in	a	letter	to	Salomon	Cohen	in	August
1814:
My	brother	in	London	is	the	commanding	general,	I	am	his	field	marshal	and
consequently	I	have	my	duty	to	fulfil	in	my	capacity	as	such,	and	therefore	I
have	to	give	the	commanding	general	reports,	comments	etc.	I	may	have	made
the	case	somewhat	stronger	so	as	to	show	him	how	serious	I	am	in	what	I	say,
but	it	is	still	an	exaggeration	to	say	that	I	lose	my	head	.	.	.	Being	a	good	general,
you	ought	to	know	exactly	what	a	good	general	has	to	know	and	not	think
continually	of	advancing	only,	but	you	ought	to	go	on	the	defensive	occasionally
in	order	to	safeguard	your	strength.
As	this	letter	suggests,	Salomon	continued	to	worry	that	Nathan	was
overreaching	himself,	but	he	now	obviously	saw	himself	in	a	subordinate,
advisory	role:	“[W]e	regard	you	as	general-in-chief,	with	ourselves	as
lieutenants-general.	God	may	give	us	luck	and	blessing,	and	success.	In	this	case
we	[remain]	generals.	Those,	who,	God	forbid,	have	no	peace,	nor	luck,	are	not
even	corporals.”	Carl	too	accepted	Nathan’s	primacy,	though	he	employed	a
slightly	different	metaphor:	“I	am	only	the	last	wheel	[of	the	carriage]	and	look
upon	myself	in	the	sense	of	a	machine	only.”	He	and	Salomon	might	not	care	for
Amsterdam,	but	they	stayed	there	if	Nathan	told	them	to.	Even	Salomon’s

--- Page 155 ---
requests	to	return	to	Frankfurt—where	he	had	spent	just	three	weeks	in	the
previous	three	years—to	see	his	wife	or	to	be	present	at	his	son’s	barmitzvah
were	evidently	regarded	by	Nathan	as	unreasonable;	the	second	request	was
granted	only	on	condition	that	Salomon	return	to	Paris	after	just	a	day	and	attend
to	the	Frankfurt	accounts	while	he	was	there.	Nathan	had	only	one	concern:
business.	“All	you	ever	write,”	complained	Salomon	wearily,	“is	pay	this,	pay
that,	send	this,	send	that.”
Since	1811	.	.	.	I	have	gone	where	business	called	me.	If	I	were	needed
today	in	Siberia	I	would	.	.	.	go	to	Siberia	.	.	.	Please	do	me	a	favour	and
desist	from	posting	any	more	ill-tempered	letters.	One	sits	in	his	inn,
often	at	the	light	of	a	candle,	waiting	for	the	brothers’	letters.	Instead	of
going	to	bed	in	a	happy	mood,	one	is	depressed	and	remains	sleepless.
What	kind	of	pleasures	are	still	open	to	us?	We	are	all	well	on	in	years,
the	pleasures	of	youth	are	out	of	our	reach;	unfortunately	we	have	had	to
say	“good	night”	to	[all]	that;	our	stomachs	are	bad	[so]	there	is	no
gluttony	for	us.	Consequently	nearly	all	the	worldly	pleasures	are	closed
to	us.	Should	we	have	to	renounce	the	pleasure	of	correspondence	[too]?
But	Nathan	gloried	in	his	ascetic	materialism:
I	am	writing	to	you	giving	my	opinion,	as	it	is	my	damned	duty	to	write	to	you	.	.
.	I	am	reading	through	your	letters	not	just	once	but	maybe	a	hundred	times.	You
can	well	imagine	that	yourself.	After	dinner	I	usually	have	nothing	to	do.	I	do
not	read	books,	I	do	not	play	cards,	I	do	not	go	to	the	theatre,	my	only	pleasure	is
my	business	and	in	this	way	I	read	Amschel’s,	Salomon’s,	James’s	and	Carl’s
letters	.	.	.	As	far	as	Carl’s	letter	[about	buying	a	bigger	house]	is	concerned	.	.	.
all	this	is	a	lot	of	nonsense	because	as	long	as	we	have	good	business	and	are
rich	everybody	will	flatter	us	and	those	who	have	no	interest	in	obtaining	money
through	us	begrudge	us	for	it	all.	Our	Salomon	is	too	good	and	agreeable	to
anything	and	anybody	and	if	a	parasite	whispers	something	into	
his	ear	he	thinks
that	all	human	beings	are	noble	minded[;]	the	truth	is	that	all	they	are	after	is
their	own	interest.
7
Privately,	even	Gentz	had	to	acknowledge	that	in	reality	Nathan	was	
primus
inter	pares
.	It	was	he	who	had	the	“remarkable	instinct	which	causes	them
always	to	choose	the	right,	and	of	two	rights	the	better”:
Baring’s	most	profound	reasoning	inspires	me,	now	that	I	have	seen	everything
at	close	quarters,	with	less	confidence	than	the	sound	judgement	of	one	of	the

--- Page 156 ---
more	intelligent	Rothschilds—for	among	the	five	brothers	there	is	one	whose
intelligence	is	wanting	and	another	whose	intelligence	is	weak—and	if	Baring
and	Hope	ever	fail,	I	can	state	with	confidence	that	it	will	be	because	they	have
thought	themselves	cleverer	than	Rothschild	and	have	not	followed	his	advice.
The	use	of	the	singular	“Rothschild”	is	important.	There	was	only	one	true
Finanz	bonaparte.
It	was	probably	Amschel	and	Carl	whom	Gentz	had	in	mind	when	he	spoke	of
“one	whose	intelligence	is	wanting	and	another	whose	intelligence	is	weak.”
This	was	unfair:	a	more	accurate	characterisation	would	be	that	they	were	more
risk-averse	than	their	brothers.	Amschel	was	the	most	cautious	of	the	five	and
constantly	yearned	to	lead	“a	quiet	life.”	“Me,	I	don’t	want	to	eat	the	world,”	he
wrote	in	a	typically	homespun	letter.	His	ideal	was	“to	work	in	tranquillity,”
without	the	anxieties	which	Nathan’s	Napoleonic	approach	necessarily
generated.	Carl,	the	fourth	brother,	was	nervous	and	insecure,	and	shared
Amschel’s	limited	ambition.	“I	am	fed	up	with	business,”	he	confided	to	his
eldest	brother	in	a	characteristic	letter.	“I	wish	God	would	give	me	but	little,
enough	to	live,	garments	for	myself	and	bread	to	eat.	I	do	not	wish	to	float	above
the	skies.”	This	feeling	doubtless	intensified	at	the	time	of	the	Amsterdam
treasury	bills	fiasco,	which	brought	a	torrent	of	recrimination	down	upon	him.
After	this,	as	Salomon	wrote,	Carl	was	genuinely	“afraid”	of	Nathan,	though	he
was	still	capable	of	muttering	criticisms	behind	“the	boss’s”	back.	As	we	have
seen,	Salomon	himself	had	the	intellect	and	self-confidence	to	question	Nathan’s
strategy;	but	he	was	too	“quiet	and	thoughtful”	and	“took	things	too	much	to
heart”—according	to	senior	Rothschild	employees	like	Davidson	and	Braun—to
withstand	his	brother’s	belligerence.	He	preferred,	where	possible,	to	side	with
Nathan	against	the	others.
Yet	Nathan’s	dominance	was	never	absolute:	the	partnership	did	not
degenerate	into	a	dictatorship.	There	were	several	reasons	for	this.	Firstly,
Nathan’s	youngest	brother	James—who	was	just	twenty-three	in	1815—was
markedly	less	submissive	to	his	will	than	the	other	three.	At	the	height	of	the
bitter	row	in	June	1814,	James	remained	cool,	sardonically	telling	Salomon
Cohen	that	he	was	allowing	Nathan	“to	dictate	to	him	about	millions	as	if	they
were	apples	and	pears.”	Although	there	were	times	when	James	contemplated
leaving	Paris,	it	is	unlikely	that	he	stayed	there	just	because	Nathan	told	him	to.
The	youngest	brother	was	intellectually	and	temperamentally	Nathan’s	equal;	he
also	had	the	advantage	of	a	better	schooling.	Revealingly,	it	was	James	who
urged	his	brothers	to	adopt	double-entry	book-keeping.	It	was	only	really	the	age

--- Page 157 ---
difference	between	the	two	which	obliged	James	to	defer	for	the	next	twenty
years	to	his	brother.	Even	in	acknowledging	Nathan’s	leadership,	James	was	less
than	deferential.	“The	main	point	is	now	to	work	out	a	
sensible	plan	for
England,”	he	wrote	to	Nathan	in	March	1818.	“
You
	will	have	to	do	this	.	.	.	I
leave	the	decision	to	you.	My	duty	is	mainly	to	draw	your	attention	to	this	matter
and	your	duty,	as	chief	commander,	is	to	work	it	all	out.”	As	early	as	December
1816	Carl	had	cause	to	complain	about	James’s	critical	letters,	the	burden	of
which	was	that	the	Frankfurt	house	was	not	making	enough	money.	Already	he
was	evincing	Nathan-like	traits.	At	the	same	time,	Nathan	(and	later	James)
occasionally	needed	to	be	restrained	by	their	less	bullish	relations.	As	Amschel
said	to	James	following	one	of	the	most	serious	setbacks	of	the	post-war	period:
[O]ne	should	[n]ever	lose	one’s	head.	Here	lies	the	advantage	of	a	partnership.	If
one	of	the	partners	loses	his	senses,	the	others	must	remain	serene.	If	all	of	them
lose	their	heads—then	good	night.	I	hope	that	[this	letter	finds	you]	quietened
down	and	that	you	will	give	thanks	to	God	that	we	gained	a	fortune	quicker	than
anybody	else.
There	were	indeed	occasions	when	Nathan	was	only	too	glad	to	postpone	a
difficult	decision	by	claiming	that	he	needed	to	consult	his	brothers.	At	times,
this	was	a	gambit;	at	times,	he	genuinely	listened	to	them.
Finally,	no	matter	how	much	they	quarrelled,	the	brothers	had	no	one	else
whom	they	could	trust	as	much.	We	know	that	on	occasion	Salomon	forged
Nathan’s	signature	on	bills	when	Nathan	had	forgotten	to	endorse	them;	it	is
inconceivable	that	anyone	else	could	have	done	so.	Even	the	best	clerks	were
kept	at	one	remove:	when	one	named	Feidel	appeared	to	be	gaining	an	undue
influence	over	Amschel,	Carl’s	response	can	only	be	described	as	jealous.
Similarly,	their	brothers-in-law—sisters’	husbands	and	wives’	brothers	alike—
were	always	viewed	with	a	measure	of	suspicion,	as	outsiders	with	designs	on
their	business.	James	was	especially	worried	that	Nathan	was	confiding	too
much	to	his	wife’s	relatives	Salomon	Cohen	and	Abraham	Montefiore	(Moses’s
brother),	and	was	relieved	to	hear	otherwise:
It	is	rare	that	a	man	should	realise	that	even	what	friends	are	telling	him	is
nothing	more	than	flattery,	that	there	is	not	a	true	word	in	it;	when	they	leave	you
they	are	laughing	at	your	credulity.	Well,	dear	Nathan	.	.	.	you	are	clever	and
honest,	you	know	the	world	.	.	.	Before	your	letter	arrived,	a	stone	fell	from	my
heart	because	Salomon	told	me	that	London	is	now	different,	not	only	are
[Abraham]	Montefiore	and	Salomon	Cohen	no	longer	allowed	to	read	and

--- Page 158 ---
deliberate	[about]	the	letters	and	all	the	business,	but	not	even	Davidson	is
allowed	to	do	so.	This	is	now	confirmed	by	your	letter.
In	the	same	way,	the	other	brothers	were	kept	abreast	of	Carl’s	attempts	to	find	a
wife	in	Hamburg	because	it	was	a	matter	of	intense	interest	to	all	of	them	which
family	Carl	married	into.	In	the	end,	there	were	authentic	bonds	of	brotherly
love,	forged	in	the	Judengasse,	which	no	other	ties	could	rival.	“Did	anyone
promise	us	more	when	we	all	slept	in	one	little	attic	room?”	asked	Salomon
when	Nathan	was	grumbling	at	having	sold	some	consols	too	soon.	Such
memories	were	never	wholly	forgotten,	no	matter	how	far	apart	the	brothers
lived	and	how	many	harsh	words	they	exchanged	by	post.
The	extent—and	limits—of	fraternal	unity	were	most	apparent	as	the	brothers
debated	whether	or	not	to	modify	the	1815	partnership	agreement.	The	legacy	of
the	great	transactions	of	1814	and	1815	was	a	tangle	of	financial
interdependence	which	could	not	easily	be	undone.	The	question	now	was
whether	James	should	be	allowed	to	establish	a	new	house	in	Paris	under	the
explicitly	collective	name	of	“de	Rothschild	Frères.”	Although	James	was
against	merging	the	accounts	of	the	various	establishments,	Amschel	had	his
anxieties,	fearing	that	James	might	embroil	him	in	risky	business.	He	and	Carl
were	only	brought	round	when	James	agreed	that	the	capital	of	the	partnership
should	not	be	made	public—an	important	decision	in	favour	of	secrecy	which
was	to	set	an	enduring	precedent.	The	result	was	a	compromise	which	it	took
almost	two	years	to	hammer	out.	The	1818	agreement	accordingly	defined	the
brothers’	partnership	as	“three	joint	mercantile	establishments	[conducted]	under
their	the	said	five	partners’	mutual	responsibility”	but	at	the	same	time
“
form
[ing]	
but	one	general	joint	concern
.”	It	was	a	nice	distinction	which	quite
accurately	encapsulated	the	way	the	brothers	reconciled	their	individual
differences	with	a	deep	and	enduring	sense	of	common	fraternal	purpose.

--- Page 159 ---
FOUR
A“	Court	Always	Leads	to	Something”	(1816-1825)
You	are	certainly	right	that	there	is	much	to	be	earned	from	a	government	which
has	no	money.	But	you	have	to	take	risks.
—JAMES	ROTHSCHILD	TO	NATHAN	ROTHSCHILD.
	
	
N.	M.	Rothschild	.	.	.	has	the	money,	the	strength	and	the	power.
—NATHAN	ROTHSCHILD	TO	CHRISTIAN	ROTHER.
	
	
	
	
	
	
In	1823	the	twelfth,	thirteenth	and	fourteenth	cantos	of	Byron’s	Don	Juan	were
published	in	London,	at	a	time	when	their	author	was	embroiled—fatally,	as	it
proved—in	the	Greek	struggle	for	independence.	Byron’s	aristocratic	profligacy
with	money	was	by	now	as	notorious	as	his	libertinism.	Nevertheless,	these	late
verses	indicate	a	keen	awareness	of	the	power	of	money—and	specifically	of	the
new	kind	of	financial	power	personified	by	Nathan	Rothschild.	“Who	hold	the
balance	of	the	world?”	asked	Byron	in	the	twelfth	canto,	“Who	reign
O’er	Congress,	whether	royalist	or	liberal?	
Who	rouse	the	shirtless	patriots	of	Spain?	
(That	make	old	Europe’s	journals	squeak	and	gibber	all.)	
Who	keep	the	world,	both	old	and	new,	in	pain	
Or	pleasure?	Who	make	politics	run	glibber	all?	

--- Page 160 ---
The	shade	of	Bonaparte’s	noble	daring?	-	
Jew	Rothschild,	and	his	fellow	Christian	Baring.
1
Those	lines	have	been	quoted	by	historians	before.	It	is	worth,	however,	reading
the	verse	which	follows	too,	for	it	nicely	illustrates	the	ambivalent	feelings	with
which	contemporaries	regarded	the	spectacular	financial	boom	of	the	early
1820s.	To	Byron,	Rothschild	and	Baring	were,	along	with	the	“truly	liberal
Laffitte,”	“the	true	Lords	of	Europe,”	whose	every	loan
Is	not	a	merely	speculative	hit,	
But	seats	a	nation	or	upsets	a	throne.	
Republics	also	get	involved	a	bit;	
Columbia’s	stock	hath	holders	not	unknown	
On	’Change;	and	even	thy	silver	soil,	Peru,	
Must	get	itself	discounted	by	a	Jew.
Byron	went	on	to	discuss—with	remarkable	insight—that	ascetic	materialism
which,	as	we	have	seen,	was	such	a	distinctive	early	Rothschild	trait.	Indeed,	it
seems	not	unreasonable	to	suggest	that	the	poet’s	reflections	on	“gaunt	Wealth’s
austerities”	may	have	been	inspired	by	Nathan	himself:
He	is	your	only	poet;—passion,	pure	
And	sparkling	on	from	heap	to	heap,	displays	
Possess’d,
	the	ore,	of	which	
mere	hopes
	allure	
Nations	athwart	the	deep:	the	golden	rays	
Flash	up	in	ingots	from	the	mine	obscure;	
On	him	the	diamond	pours	its	brilliant	blaze,	
While	the	mild	emerald’s	beam	shades	down	the	dyes	
Of	other	stones,	to	soothe	the	miser’s	eyes.
The	lands	on	either	side	are	his:	the	ship	
From	Ceylon,	Inde,	or	far	Cathay,	unloads	
For	him	the	fragrant	produce	of	each	trip;	
Beneath	his	cars	of	Ceres	groan	the	roads,	
And	the	vine	blushes	like	Aurora’s	lip;	
His	very	cellars	might	be	kings’	abodes;	
While	he,	despising	every	sensual	call,	
Commands—the	intellectual	lord	of	all.
Perhaps	he	hath	great	projects	in	his	mind,	
To	build	a	college,	or	to	found	a	race,	

--- Page 161 ---
A	hospital,	a	church,—and	leave	behind	
Some	dome	surmounted	by	his	meagre	face:	
Perhaps	he	fain	would	liberate	mankind	
Even	with	the	very	ore	which	makes	them	base:	
Perhaps	he	would	be	wealthiest	of	his	nation,	
Or	revel	in	the	joys	of	calculation.
The	allusion	to	“his	nation”	may	indicate	that	there	was	more	of	Rothschild	than
of	Baring	in	this	inspired	evocation	of	financial	might.
That	Byron	could	suggest—even	satirically—that	Nathan	Rothschild	held,
along	with	Alexander	Baring,	“the	balance	of	the	world”	requires	some
explanation.	The	name	of	Baring	was,	of	course,	well	established.	Like	the
Rothschilds	the	family	hailed	from	Germany	(Francis	Baring	had	emigrated
from	Bremen	in	1717);	and,	like	Nathan,	Francis’s	son	John	had	made	his
fortune	in	the	textiles	business,	as	a	wool	manufacturer,	before	his	sons
established	the	merchant	bank	of	Baring	Brothers	in	1770.	However,	as
Lutherans	the	Barings	had	easily	been	absorbed	into	the	social	elite	of	Exeter
and	later	London.	John’s	younger	son	Francis	had	been	an	MP	since	1784,	a
member	of	the	board	of	the	East	India	Company	since	1779	and	a	baronet	since
1793.	Alexander,	his	son	and	successor	at	the	bank,	also	became	an	MP	in	1806.
By	contrast,	only	a	few	years	before	
Don	Juan,
	the	Rothschilds’	role	in	the
financing	of	the	war	against	Napoleon	was	still	largely	a	secret,	known	only	to
political	and	financial	insiders.	Even	the	Paris	banker	Jacques	Laffitte	was	better
known	as	Governor	of	the	Banque	de	France	between	1814	and	1820	and	one	of
Napoleon’s	financial	backers	in	the	Hundred	Days.	What	happened	in	the	years
after	the	upheaval	of	Waterloo	to	catapult	Nathan	to	such	celebrity—and
notoriety—that	he	could	be	said	to	“reign”	over	royalists	and	liberals,	“rouse”
Spanish	patriots	and	“keep	the	world,	both	old	and	new,	in	pain	/	Or	pleasure?”
	
The	Economic	Consequences	of	the	Peace
The	answer	must	be	sought	in	what	might	be	called	(to	adapt	a	phrase	used	in
similar	circumstances	a	century	later)	the	economic	consequences	of	the	peace—
the	Second	Peace	of	Paris,	imposed	on	France	after	Waterloo.	The	First	Treaty	of
Paris	had	imposed	no	reparations	on	the	restored	Bourbon	regime,	but	the	mood
of	the	victorious	powers	after	Waterloo	was	less	clement.	Quite	apart	from	any
desire	to	punish	the	French	collectively	for	the	actions	of	those	who	had	rallied
to	Napoleon	in	the	Hundred	Days,	there	was	a	practical	need	to	pay	for	the

--- Page 162 ---
troops	occupying	northern	France,	who	at	one	stage	numbered	more	than	a
million.	Even	before	the	peace	was	signed	in	November,	a	charge	or
“contribution”	of	some	50	million	francs	was	levied	to	pay	for	their	upkeep.	The
final	terms	of	the	treaty	set	a	total	for	reparations	of	700	million	francs	to	be	paid
over	five	years	beginning	in	March	1816,	during	which	time	an	occupying	force
of	150,000	men	would	remain	on	French	soil.	The	costs	of	this	occupation	were
also	to	be	met	by	the	French	Treasury.
2
The	Rothschilds	evidently	hoped	that	the	financial	provisions	of	the	peace—
which	implied	a	new	and	potentially	lucrative	series	of	international	transfers,
this	time	from	Paris	rather	than	London—would	provide	them	with	plentiful
opportunities	to	recoup	the	losses	of	the	Hundred	Days.	At	first,	there	were
grounds	for	optimism,	at	least	as	far	as	relations	with	the	recipient	states	were
concerned.	Gervais	as	usual	promised	to	hand	Rothschilds	the	better	part	of
Russia’s	share,	and	Herries	was	likewise	expected	to	secure	a	large	tranche	of
the	British.	However,	it	quickly	became	apparent	that	any	business	arising	from
the	French	“contributions”	would	have	to	be	shared	with	other	bankers,	who
now	rushed	to	challenge	the	Rothschild	monopoly	on	international	transfer
payments.	Only	by	entering	into	loose	partnerships—with	Mendelssohn	in
Berlin,	Bethmann	and	Gontard	in	Frankfurt,	Arnstein	&	Eskeles	in	Vienna	and
Parish	&	Co.	in	Hamburg—were	Salomon	and	James	able	to	participate	in	the
initial	payments	to	Prussia	and	Austria.	Even	the	British	and	Russian
contributions	could	not	be	taken	for	granted.
Partly,	the	problem	was	one	of	declining	influence.	Dunmore,	Herries’s
representative	in	Paris,	was	less	“friendly”	than	Herries	himself,	while	the
Russian	minister	Count	Nesselrode	had	reasons	for	favouring	Gontard.	It	was	a
serious	setback	when	first	Gervais	and	then	Herries	left	office.	To	make	matters
worse,	some	of	the	other	officials	they	found	themselves	dealing	with—the
Russian	Merian	and	the	Prussian	Rother—declined	to	accept	bribes.	But	the	real
problem	was	that	peace	had	brought	competition.	As	James	complained,
contemplating	profits	of	1.5	per	cent	and	less,	there	was	“not	much	joy	to	be	had
from	the	contributions	business,	because	there	are	too	many	people	here.”
Salomon	was	especially	irked	by	the	Austrian	representatives,	who	“run	from
one	house	to	the	next	for	the	sake	of	an	extra	sou.”	Ultimately,	he	and	James
became	almost	fatalistic:	“There	are	no	big,	brilliant	deals	to	be	made	here.	But
now	that	we’re	here,	we’re	happy	to	take	all	that	we	can	to	prevent	it	going	to
anyone	else.”	The	only	consoling	thought—frequently	repeated—was	that
contacts	with	courts,	no	matter	how	unprofitable,	might	lead	to	business	in	the

--- Page 163 ---
future.	The	brothers	never	turned	up	their	noses	at	small-scale	transactions	and
gladly	advanced	the	contributions	due	to	the	smaller	German	states	and	the
minor	compensation	payments	which	Russia	had	to	make	for	damage	to	private
property	by	Russian	troops.
Far	more	disappointing,	however,	was	James’s	failure	to	win	a	share	of	the
business	generated	on	the	other	side	of	the	reparations	equation.	That	France
would	be	able	to	pay	reparations	and	the	costs	of	occupation	only	by	means	of	a
large	loan	had	become	obvious	by	late	1816.	Despite	efforts	to	cut	spending	and
raise	taxes,	there	was	no	realistic	way	of	achieving	an	annual	surplus	in	excess
of	170	million	francs,	not	least	because	of	the	unhelpful	attitude	of	the	ultra-
royalist	“Incredible	Chamber”	which—like	most	nineteenth-century	assemblies
elected	by	income	or	property	tax	payers—showed	little	enthusiasm	for	raising
direct	taxes.	Indeed,	the	1816-17	budget	showed	a	deficit	of	over	300	million
francs,	which	was	financed	only	with	the	greatest	difficulty	by	short-term
borrowing.	Moreover,	the	Paris	capital	market	by	itself	was	far	too	weak	to
absorb	unassisted	the	new	issues	of	rentes	which	were	inevitably	going	to	be
needed.	With	the	price	of	5	per	cent	rentes	down	as	low	as	50,	the	government
had	little	option	but	to	look	abroad.
In	the	immediate	aftermath	of	Napoleon’s	defeat,	the	Rothschilds’	prospects	of
influence	at	the	French	court	had	been	good.	Not	only	had	they	been	responsible
for	relaying	a	British	loan	to	the	returning	French	King,	but	Dalberg,	the	former
Prince-Primate	of	Napoleon’s	Rhenish	Confederation	and	Grand	Duke	of
Frankfurt,	had	emerged	as	a	member	of	the	French	provisional	government—one
of	a	number	of	opportunists	(the	most	famous	being	Talleyrand)	who	managed	to
survive	yet	another	change	of	regime	by	a	well-timed	defection.
3
	However,	the
resignation	of	Talleyrand	and	the	formation	of	a	new	government	under	the	duc
de	Richelieu	appear	to	have	weakened	the	Rothschild	position.	James	made
every	effort	to	cultivate	Richelieu’s	secretary,	who	evidently	provided	valuable
inside	information	on	French	intentions.	But,	when	the	question	of	a	loan	was
raised	in	the	autumn	and	winter	of	1816,	the	Finance	Minister	Corvetto	elected
to	give	the	business	to	Baring	and	Pierre-César	Labouchère	of	Hope	&	Co.,
4
who	had	successfully	been	wooed	by	Gabriel-Julien	Ouvrard,	another	survivor
of	the	imperial	era.	An	agreement	was	reached	in	early	1817	whereby,	in	return
for	a	2.5	per	cent	commission,	Baring	provided	the	French	government	with	an
initial	297	million	francs	in	return	for	5	per	cent	rentes.	Because	the	bonds	were
issued	over	a	period	of	several	months	in	three	tranches	at	prices	of	52.5,	55.5
and	61.5,	this	meant	that	the	French	government	had	increased	its	national	debt

--- Page 164 ---
by	around	534	million	francs	for	the	sake	of	less	than	300	million	francs	in	cash
—or	to	put	it	another	way,	it	was	paying	interest	at	an	effective	rate	of	around	9
per	cent,	nearly	double	the	nominal	rate	on	its	rentes.	Contrary	to	later
mythology,	the	Rothschilds	found	themselves	more	or	less	excluded	from	this
immense	operation,	“to	prevent,”	so	Baring	claimed,	“a	selling	race	at	the
exchanges	with	resulting	depreciation.”
This	was	a	bitter	blow	to	James,	who	had	expended	considerable	energy	on
his	own	plans	for	a	loan,	and	who	believed	up	until	the	eleventh	hour	that,	at	the
very	least,	he	would	be	able	to	participate	in	some	kind	of	consortium.
“Depressed”	and	angry,	he	railed	at	Baring’s	duplicity,	claiming	that	his	rival	had
bribed	the	French	government	to	exaggerate	its	inability	to	pay	and	thereby
secure	a	six-month	breathing-space.	His	anger	was	redoubled	when	a	last-ditch
effort	(in	partnership	with	Laffitte	and	Parish)	to	join	the	Baring	group	for	the
third	issue	of	rentes	in	July	
1817	came	to	nothing.	Salomon,	returning	to	Paris
from	London,	could	not	help	but	admire	the	way	his	brother	had	been
outmanoeuvred:
He	is	quite	a	crook	this	Baring.	Today	he	is	going	to	dine	with	us,	together	with
Laffitte	.	.	.	We	must	certainly	watch	our	step	as	far	as	he	is	concerned.	Baring’s
lot	are	and	were	as	well	versed	in	the	way	of	using	influence	as	we	are.	There	is
not	a	single	man	of	importance	amongst	the	authorities	here	who	would	not
work	with	Baring	hand	in	glove	.	.	.	The	Russian	ambassador	Pozzo	di	Borgo	is
on	the	side	of	France	and	of	Baring	whose	orbit	he	is	in	.	.	.	Baring	and	the
French	Minister	of	Finances	are	sharing	the	profit.	The	Minister	is	reputed	to	be
one	of	the	most	corrupt	of	all.
Whatever	the	truth	of	these	allegations,	Baring	was	in	a	strong	enough
position	to	exclude	James	again	when	the	negotiations	began	for	a	final	loan	to
pay	off	the	remainder	of	the	indemnity.	Although	rentes	with	a	face	value	of	290
million	francs	were	issued	directly	to	the	public	in	May	1818,	the	government
appears	to	have	taken	fright	at	the	frantic	speculation	these	attracted	(the	issue
was	oversubscribed	almost	ten	times,	pushing	prices	up	to	a	peak	of	80
compared	with	an	issue	price	of	66.5),	and	a	second	issue	of	480	million	francs
(nominal)	in	the	same	month	was	entrusted	to	Baring.	When	James—along	with
the	other	Paris	banks	Baguenault,	Delessert,	Greffulhe,	Hottinguer	and	Laffitte—
was	offered	a	mere	10	million	francs,	to	be	shared	with	David	Parish,	he	was
disgusted,	fulminating	at	the	“abominable”	way	he	had	been	treated.	He	and	the
others	had	to	content	themselves	with	shares	of	a	31	million	franc	loan	to	the

--- Page 165 ---
city	of	Paris.	As	the	Duke	of	Wellington	reported	to	Lord	Liverpool,	“The	fact	is
that	Baring,	having	the	French	finances	in	his	hands,	and	French	loans	being	in
fashion	in	England,	has	to	a	certain	degree	the	command	of	the	money	market	of
the	world.	He	feels	his	power,	and	it	is	not	a	very	easy	task	to	succeed	in
counteracting	him.”	If	there	was	ever	a	moment	when	Barings	deserved	to	be
called	“the	sixth	great	power”	(a	probably	apocryphal	phrase	attributed	to
Richelieu),	then	this	was	it.
There	were	admittedly	arguments	for	limiting	the	brothers’	direct	involvement
in	a	large-scale	loan	to	France.	After	the	trauma	of	the	Hundred	Days,	Nathan
had	good	reason	to	doubt	the	stability	of	the	restored	Bourbon	regime.	Salomon
might	reassure	him	that,	according	to	best	sources	in	Paris,	there	would	be	“no
more	revolution	in	France,”	but	he	added	the	important	rider:	“at	least	not	in	the
foreseeable	future,	and	if	there	is	something,	it	is	certainly	not	be	feared	in	the
next	three	months.”	After	all,	as	he	admitted,	there	was	“no	way	of	insuring
against	the	hot	heads	of	the	French,”	and	a	future	default	could	not	be	ruled	out.
Such	comments	suggest	that	he	had	no	more	confidence	than	Nathan	in	French
funds.	This	pessimism	was	reinforced	by	“talk	of	war”	which	James	heard	in
Paris	in	May	1816.	A	few	months	later	he	was	even	more	alarmed	by	news	that
the	British	government	might	favour	replacing	Louis	XVIII	with	the	duc
d’Orléans,	which	James	warned	would	lead	to	civil	war.	Widespread	social
unrest	in	1817	caused	by	a	bad	harvest	and	high	food	prices	reinforced	such
anxieties.
On	the	other	hand,	the	financial	position	of	the	restored	Bourbon	regime	was
less	shaky	than	it	appeared,	and	this	helps	explain	the	rapid	rise	in	the	price	of
rentes	during	1817	and	the	first	half	of	1818	which	made	the	loan	so	profitable
for	its	contractors.	Because	of	the	great	assignat	inflation	of	the	1790s,	France—
unlike	
Britain—had	more	or	less	wiped	out	the	accumulated	debts	of	the
eighteenth	century.	Its	total	public	debt	in	1815	stood	at	just	1.2	billion	francs,
roughly	10	per	cent	of	national	income—so	much	less	than	the	equivalent	figure
for	Britain	that	it	amounted	to	a	clean	slate.	It	was	therefore	easy,	once	Baring
had	started	the	ball	rolling,	for	France	to	issue	further	loans	without	in	any	way
depressing	the	price	of	rentes.	As	the	price	of	rentes	rose,	Baring	was	getting,	as
James	ruefully	observed,	“money	for	nothing.”	France’s	resources	were	in	reality
“formidable”	and	the	political	situation	stable:	“If	the	Allies	withdraw,	France
will	remain	quiet.	Be	assured	that	there	is	no	party	left	here	which	could	put	up
resistance	to	the	Government,	at	least	not	soon.”
The	Rothschilds’	failure	to	secure	the	1817	and	1818	reparations	loans	was

--- Page 166 ---
therefore	a	costly	defeat.	The	implication	was	clear:	if	they	had	stolen	a	march
on	other	bankers	in	early	1814,	now	they	had	to	face	a	determined	effort	by	the
Barings	and	Bethmanns	to	reclaim	their	earlier	predominance	in	European	public
finance,	as	well	as	new	competition	from	less	established	figures	like	Gontard
and	the	Bavarian	financier	Adolph	d’Eichthal.
5
	As	Carl	had	put	it	in	1814,	“The
main	thing	is	that	people	are	hostile	towards	us	because	we	have	the	business.”
“We	have	enemies	aplenty,”	James	lamented	a	year	later,	“though	it	is	more	a
matter	of	envy	than	enmity.	Every	five	minutes	someone	else	is	going	to	the
[Prussian]	minister	and	asks:	‘Why	does	Rothschild	get	given	everything?’	”	It
had	been	easier	before,	commented	Carl,	when	the	risks	were	greater,	because
there	had	been	less	competition.	Indeed,	James	even	acknowledged	that,	in
seeking	to	exclude	them	from	the	reparations	payments,	the	Viennese	bankers
were	only	“doing	what	the	Rothschilds	had	done”	over	the	subsidies.	Baring
seemed	to	pose	the	biggest	threat	at	this	stage.	Not	only	did	he	and	his	associates
“want	to	subject	all	of	France	according	to	their	will	so	that	they	can	do	what
they	like”;	they	also	posed	a	threat	to	Nathan’s	position	in	London.	As	Amschel
said,	Nathan	seemed	to	be	“rather	upset	if	somebody	else	does	any	business
transactions	with	London.	He	feels	that	he	more	or	less	owns	London.”	It	cannot
have	pleased	him	to	hear	it	said	“that	[because	of	Baring]	you	don’t	play	any
longer	the	first	[role]	on	the	Stock	Exchange	and	that	you	are	unable	to	fix	the
quotation”	of	stocks.	However,	the	growth	of	competition	was	just	as	marked	in
smaller	financial	markets	like	Kassel,	where	the	end	of	the	war	and	the	return	of
the	Elector	led	to	frenetic	efforts	to	end	the	Rothschilds’	near-monopoly	over	his
finances,	built	up	during	his	years	in	exile,	and	to	win	a	share	of	the	Rothschilds’
“mountains	of	gold.”
6
	As	James	put	it	in	early	1818,	“The	whole	world	is
jealous.”
The	Rothschilds	did	not	suffer	competitors	gladly.	Indeed,	they	had	a	wide
range	of	abusive	terms	for	them,	such	as	
Schurken
	(scoundrels),	
Bösewichte
(rogues)	and	
Spitzbuben
	(rascals).	Even	before	Waterloo,	there	had	been	much
talk	of	“putting	spokes	in	wheels”	of	rival	“scoundrels”	and	“sharpshooters,”	and
dealing	them	“blows	where	it	hurts.”	The	question	in	1818	was	how	best	to
“hurt”	Baring	and	Labouchère.	Tradition	has	it	that	the	brothers	did	so	by	means
of	a	huge	intervention	in	the	market	for	rentes.	First,	they	invested	heavily	in	the
new	rentes	being	created	under	the	Baring	scheme.	Then,	just	as	the	great
powers	met	at	Aix-la-Chapelle	to	negotiate	the	final	reparations	payments,	they
allegedly	turned	from	bulls	into	bears,	dumping	rentes	on	the	market	with
devastating	consequences	for	prices.	In	this	way,	they	decisively	weakened

--- Page 167 ---
Baring’s	position,	forcing	him	to	call	off	the	final	
loan	which	he	had	been	on	the
point	of	making	on	behalf	of	France.	There	is	no	doubt	that	we	need	an
explanation	for	the	remarkable	speed	with	which	the	Rothschilds	outstripped
their	more	established	rivals.	And	it	is	true	that	Baring	was	acutely	embarrassed
by	the	sharp	drop	in	rentes	to	a	nadir	of	60,	and	was	saved	only	by	the	fact	that
so	many	of	the	ministers	present	at	Aix—including	Nesselrode,	the	Austrian
Chancellor	Prince	Metternich	and	his	Prussian	counterpart	Prince	Hardenberg—
had	themselves	taken	shares,	and	therefore	had	a	common	interest	in	cancelling
the	final	loan.
7
	However,	no	archival	evidence	has	come	to	light	to	support	the
notion	that	the	Rothschilds	were	directly	responsible	for	the	crisis.
The	brothers	undoubtedly	sought	to	join	in	the	bull	run	in	the	French	bond
market	after	1816.	James	held	rentes	worth	3	million	francs	(nominal)	at	the
beginning	of	March	1817,	and	by	the	end	of	the	month	he	had	acquired	a	further
7	million,	all	bought	on	the	assumption	of	a	sustained	rise.	Soon	he	was
inundated	with	orders	to	purchase	rentes	for	Nathan	and	his	London	relatives
too,	though	he	himself	still	felt	“in	the	dark”	as	to	how	long	the	rise	could	be
sustained.	It	also	seems	quite	likely,	as	Ouvrard	later	claimed,	that	James	took
advantage	of	the	system	of	part-payment	to	maximise	his	speculative	purchases.
But	there	is	no	evidence	of	a	concerted	policy	of	selling	at	any	time	in	1818.
When	James	did	take	profits,	he	took	care	that	his	sales	should	not	be	noticed,
precisely	to	avoid	weakening	the	market	as	a	whole;	and	when	rentes	did
weaken	in	the	summer	of	1817,	the	brothers	actually	made	purchases	to	support
the	market.	Indeed,	it	is	from	this	period	that	we	can	date	that	keen
preoccupation	with	the	health	of	the	rente,	and	any	news	which	might	affect	it,
which	was	to	be	a	feature	of	his	correspondence	for	the	next	fifty	years.	A	year
later,	in	July	1818,	he	saw	no	reason	to	question	Laffitte	and	Delessert’s
assumption	that	rentes	would	reach	par	by	the	end	of	the	year.
None	of	this	should	surprise	us.	The	Rothschilds	would	have	been	taking	a
grave	risk	if	they	had	sought	to	subvert	the	final	“liquidation”	of	the	French
indemnity.	In	February	1818	Salomon	explicitly	argued	against	an	attack	on
Baring:	it	would	be	counter-productive	if	people	were	able	to	say,	“The
Rothschilds	organised	a	diversion,	the	loan	fell	through,	the	troops	can’t	be
withdrawn.”	In	any	case,	Baring	was	an	MP	and	had	already	asked	enough
awkward	questions	about	Herries’s	activities	as	Commissary-in-Chief.	There
were	good	reasons	not	to	antagonise	him.	The	best	explanation	for	the	downturn
in	the	price	of	rentes	during	the	Aix	conference	in	fact	lies	in	the	policy	of	the
Banque	de	France,	which	had	fuelled	the	surge	in	rente	prices	after	May	by

--- Page 168 ---
lending	over-generously	to	the	Paris	banks.	When	a	run	on	its	reserves	alerted
the	Banque	to	its	mistake,	it	over-compensated	by	tightening	its	discounting
terms.	It	was	this	contraction	on	the	money	market	which	temporarily	halted	the
speculation	in	rentes	and	depressed	prices.	Once	the	Banque	had	been	persuaded
to	relax	its	policy	again,	rentes	recovered	rapidly,	though	it	was	not	until	1821
(with	prices	at	87)	that	sufficient	confidence	had	been	recovered	to	float	the	final
reparations	loan.	Moreover,	if	the	Rothschilds	had	hoped	to	benefit	from
Baring’s	retreat	from	the	French	market,	they	were	disappointed:	the	1821	loan
went	to	the	Paris	bankers	Hottinguer,	Delessert	and	Baguenault.
In	reality,	it	was	British	consols,	not	French	rentes,	which	the	Rothschilds
sold,	and	they	did	so	at	the	end	of	1817,	not	in	late	1818—making	a	profit	in	the
process	which	more	than	compensated	for	any	losses	they	may	have	suffered	in
the	summer	of	1815.	As	we	have	seen,	at	the	end	of	that	year	Nathan	had,	at
Herries’s	recommendation,	made	substantial	purchases	of	3	per	cent	consols	at
prices	of	61.1	and	61.5	as	well	as	£450,000	of	Omnium	stocks	at	107.
Throughout	1816	he	ignored	his	nervous	brothers’	repeated	advice	to	take
profits,	so	that	by	the	end	of	that	year	he	held	altogether	£1.2	million	(nominal)
worth	of	consols.	This	must	have	been	very	nearly	equivalent	to	the	entire
capital	of	the	firm.	Family	opinion	on	this	strategy	was	divided:	cautious	as	ever,
Amschel	regarded	it	as	“stupid	.	.	.	to	invest	one’s	whole	fortune	in	one	single
security”	and	continued	to	urge	that	Nathan	sell,	especially	as	he	and	Carl	found
themselves	increasingly	strapped	for	cash	in	Frankfurt.	James	was	more
enthusiastic—as	he	said,	this	single	investment	had	already	earned	them	“as
much	as	a	loan”—but	he	questioned	Nathan’s	assessment	that	consols	would
reach	80,	and	by	April	1817	he	too	was	urging	a	halt.	Those	closer	to	New
Court,	however,	joined	in	Nathan’s	“spec”	with	their	own	private	savings.
Caroline,	Salomon’s	wife,	had	evidently	caught	the	bug	while	staying	with	her
brother-in-law:	by	August	1816,	she	was	actually	having	dreams	about	consol
prices	reaching	86!—a	revealing	insight	into	the	indirect	participation	of	the
Rothschild	women	in	the	family	business	in	this	period.	In	May	of	1817,	when
the	upward	trend	was	momentarily	checked,	Nathan	finally	gave	in	to	his
brothers’	pleas	by	selling	around	£600,000,	but	he	evidently	did	so	with	the
greatest	reluctance	and	moved	quickly	to	reinvest	even	more	before	the	rise
resumed	the	following	month.	By	July,	with	consols	leaping	to	above	82	and	a
total	holding	of	£1.6	million	(nominal),	Salomon	had	to	acknowledge	that	his
brother	had	pulled	off	another	business	“masterwork.”
It	was	at	this	point	that	Nathan	began	to	sell,	realising	profits	of	more	than

--- Page 169 ---
£250,000.	Interestingly,	this	was	five	months	ahead	of	the	market’s	final	peak	at
84.25	in	December	1817	(see	illustration	4.i)	and	this	may	explain	why	he
delayed	slightly	before	relaying	the	advice	to	sell	to	others.	Even	his	brothers-in-
law	and	his	oldest	client	in	the	market,	the	Elector	of	Hesse-Kassel,	were	not
tipped	off	until	after	Nathan	had	sold.	As	it	became	apparent	that	the	market	had
indeed	peaked—by	1820	prices	were	back	below	70—Moses	Montefiore	hailed
his	brother-in-law’s	coup:
I	am	very	happy	to	learn	you	make	as	good	a	Bear	as	you	formerly	did	a	Bull,
you	must	have	had	some	difficulty	with	my	brother	Abraham,	indeed	it	is	quite	a
new	character	for	both	.	.	.	You	have	beaten	your	antagonists	so	frequently	that	I
am	surprised	there	are	any	so	hardy	to	be	found	in	the	Stock	Exchange	to	oppose
you	in	any	considerable	operation.
There	is	no	simple	explanation	for	the	Rothschilds’	triumph	over	their	rivals	in
the	1820s:	but	this	great	coup	undoubtedly	played	an	important	part.
What	had	made	Nathan	decide	to	dispose	of	his	consols	at	the	end	of	1817?
Part	of	the	reason	may	have	been	a	premature	alarm	sounded	by	his	brothers	in
Paris	about	the	possibility	of	war	over	Spain:	not	for	the	last	time,	the	brothers
interpreted	any	threat	of	armed	conflict	between	the	great	powers	as	an	argument
for	selling	government	bonds.	But	of	greater	importance	was	the	invaluable
inside	information	he	was	receiving	about	changes	in	British	fiscal	and	monetary
policy.	This	was	the	fruit	of	Nathan’s	growing	proximity	to	the	Chancellor	of	the
Exchequer,	Nicholas	Vansittart,	as	well	as	his	brothers’	first	direct	contacts	with
the	Duke	of	Wellington—“old	Stiff-back”—in	Paris.	As	the	Rothschilds
hastened	to	point	out,	
it	was	not	only	they	but	the	British	government	too	which
had	benefited	from	the	rise	in	consols.	The	surplus	funds	in	the	military	chest
which	had	been	left	over	after	Napoleon’s	defeat	had	also	been	used	to	purchase
£650,000	(nominal)	of	consols	at	62	in	1816.	Now	that	consols	stood	at	over	82,
the	Treasury	stood	to	make	a	profit	of	around	£130,000.	This	good	turn	was
clearly	felt	to	deserve	another:	Nathan	was	tipped	off	about	a	funding	operation
—involving	the	issue	of	£27	million	in	new	3.5	or	3.25	per	cent	government
stocks—which	was	bound	to	depress	the	market	for	3	per	cents.	As	Salomon’s
letters	at	this	time	show,	it	was	this	inside	information	more	than	anything	else
which	determined	Nathan’s	move:
Vansittart	is	a	very	fine	man,	insofar	as	he	gave	you	a	hint	of	a	forthcoming
funding	operation.	He	well	knows	that	you	were	the	only	one	who	drove	up	the
stocks,	who	lifted	England’s	credit,	and	that	you	are	the	great	holder	of	stocks	.	.

--- Page 170 ---
.	Now	it	is	time	to	work	out	a	plan.	We	agree	with	you	that	in	the	case	of	a
funding	carried	out	.	.	.	stocks	will	fall	to	80	or	even	a	little	less	.	.	.	I	assure	you
that	the	whole	of	New	Court	as	soon	as	they	get	wind	of	it	are	going	to	be
“bears”	of	millions.
4.i:	The	average	price	of	3	per	cent	consols,	1780-1830.

--- Page 171 ---
As	he	put	it	to	an	incredulous	James:	“Nathan’s	relation	with	these	gentlemen	[of

--- Page 172 ---
the	Treasury]	is	such	as	between	brothers	.	.	.	Our	New	Court	gives	me	the
impression	of	being	like	a	Freemasons’	lodge.	He	who	enters	becomes	a	Stock-
mason.”	The	significance	of	this	remark	will	be	returned	to	below.
In	fact,	the	operation	Vansittart	mentioned	to	Nathan	ran	into	trouble	because
of	mounting	political	opposition	to	the	Chancellor’s	financial	policy.	Indeed,
Nathan’s	sale	of	consols	at	the	end	of	1817	may	have	been	one	of	the	abuses
which	Vansittart’s	critics	had	in	mind	when	they	accused	him	of	being	“at	the
Mercy	of	the	Money	Market”	and	fuelling	“the	inordinate	spirit	of	gambling.”
Vansittart’s	task	was	in	many	ways	a	hopeless	one.	As	noted	in	the	previous
chapter,	the	British	public	debt	had	grown	to	immense	proportions—£900
million,	or	roughly	200	per	cent	of	national	income—as	a	consequence	of	the
wars	against	France.	But	in	1815	the	House	of	Commons	defied	the	government
by	refusing	to	renew	the	wartime	income	tax	(and	the	malt	tax),	causing	an
immediate	loss	of	over	£14	million	in	revenue.	Faced	with	annual	debt	service
charges	of	over	£30	million,	to	say	nothing	of	the	continuing	costs	of	the	army
and	navy,	the	government	had	little	option	but	to	increase	indirect	taxes—of
which	the	duty	on	imported	corn	or	“Corn	Law”	was	to	become	the	most
controversial—and	to	carry	on	borrowing.
Vansittart’s	strategy	in	1818,	which	aimed	at	concealing	the	extent	of	the
deficits	he	was	running	in	order	to	boost	consol	prices,	was	to	borrow	short	term
by	issuing	exchequer	bills,	in	order	to	continue	making	payments	to	Pitt’s
sinking	fund.	This	hand-to-mouth	system	undoubtedly	suited	those,	like	Nathan,
who	bought	and	sold	both	bills	and	consols.	But	it	was	criticised,	given	the
inflationary	consequences	of	issuing	exchequer	bills	to	redeem	consols,	by	those
political	economists	who	regarded	the	continuing	depreciation	of	paper	money
and	the	exchange	rate	in	terms	of	gold	as	the	principal	post-war	problem.	Led
within	the	government	by	William	Huskisson	and	supported	(after	initial	doubts)
by	Robert	Peel,	the	proponents	of	the	resumption	of	gold	or	“cash”	payments	by
the	Bank	of	England	gradually	gained	the	upper	hand	over	Vansittart	and	the
directors	of	the	Bank	itself.	With	the	setting	up	of	the	“Secret	Committee	on	the
Expediency	of	the	Bank	Resuming	
Cash	Payments”	under	Peel’s	chairmanship
in	1819,	the	“bullionists”	had	effectively	won.
8
	Dismayed,	Nathan	sought	to
dissuade	Liverpool	from	going	back	on	to	gold,	even	pursuing	ministers	into	the
country	to	make	his	case.	But	the	Prime	Minister’s	mind	had	been	made	up,	as
he	indicated	to	Vansittart	in	October	1819:
Nothing	can	be	more	foolish	than	Rothschild’s	following	you,	and	intending	to

--- Page 173 ---
follow	me,	into	the	country.	If	his	proceeding	is	known	it	can	of	course	only
augment	the	general	alarm,	and	increase	all	the	evils	he	is	desirous	of	preventing
.	.	.	The	point	.	.	.	upon	which	I	feel	most	anxiety	is	the	idea	suggested	by
Rothschild,	of	a	continuance	of	the	Bank	restriction.	I	am	satisfied	that	no
measure	could	be	more	fatal,	and	that	the	very	notion	of	its	being	a	matter	for
consideration	would	do	harm	.	.	.	As	to	continuing	the	restriction	from	the	dread
of	their	diminishing	their	[the	Bank	of	England’s]	circulation	too	much,	this
would	be	a	ground	for	perpetual	restriction,	and	is	the	idea	of	all	others	that	it
was	most	necessary	to	combat	last	year.	Let	us	therefore	determine	to	stand	upon
our	present	system,	and	let	no	one	entertain	a	doubt	that	this	is	our
determination.
Given	the	ultimate	triumph	of	the	gold	standard	in	the	nineteenth	century,	it	is
easy	to	dismiss	Nathan’s	position	as	special	pleading.	Yet	Nathan’s	opposition	to
cash	payments	was	far	from	unjustifiable,	and	it	was	an	error	on	the	part	of	the
bullionists	and	radicals	to	assume	that	he	was	motivated	solely	by	self-interest.
Nathan	never	opposed	the	resumption	of	cash	payments	as	a	matter	of	theoretical
principle:	he	and	his	fellow	bankers	made	a	practical	argument	that	the	short-run
effects	of	a	deflationary	policy	would	be	economically	destabilising,	and	that
this	might	tend	to	run	counter	to	the	government’s	goal	of	fiscal	and	monetary
stabilisation.	The	Treasury	official	George	Harrison	was	right	to	worry	in
October	1818	about	the	consequences	of	tightening	monetary	policy	at	a	time
when	the	budget	remained	unbalanced.	As	he	said	to	Vansittart,
Its	effect	upon	our	concerns	and	upon	the	Stocks	may	be	very	considerable—for
such	a	proceeding	would	drive	.	.	.	
our
	Agent	[meaning	Nathan]	in	all
probability	to	become	a	Seller	of	his	stock	.	.	.	and	would	inevitably	affect	the
Funds	more	or	less	.	.	.	We	could	not	with	justice	or	propriety	be	pressing	him	to
extend	his	accommodations	to	us,	when	the	Bank	refused	to	accommodate	him
by	Discounts—as	he	would	then	be	driven	to	become	a	Seller	to	a	larger	extent
to	enable	him	to	meet	our	Wants.
In	fact,	as	we	have	seen,	Nathan	had	already	done	most	of	his	selling.	But	his
brokers	and	their	clients	felt	the	effects	of	the	government’s	deflationary	policies
when	he	issued	a	new	loan	of	£12	million	for	the	government	in	the	summer	of
1819.	The	decision	to	stick	to	3	per	cents	more	or	less	precluded	a	rapid	rise	in
the	new	stock	at	a	time	when	consol	prices	were	already	in	the	doldrums	not	far
above	the	issue	price	of	69.	It	was	this	link	between	monetary	tightening	and	the
continuance	of	government	borrowing	which	he	had	sought	to	point	out	to

--- Page 174 ---
Liverpool,	who	preferred	to	believe	Baring	that	there	would	soon	be	“a	reaction”
(that	is,	a	recovery)	in	consol	prices.	Similarly,	in	his	evidence	to	the	Committee
of	Cash	Payments	in	1820,	Nathan	did	not	deny	for	a	moment	that	the
depreciation	of	sterling	and	outflow	of	
specie	into	foreign	bonds	was	due	in	part
to	the	suspension	of	gold	payments.	The	key	point	was	that	the	combination	of
tight	money	and	a	mountainous	government	debt	was	a	perilous	one	for	the
economy	as	a	whole:
Have	the	goodness	to	state	to	the	Committee	in	detail,	what	you	conceive	would
be	the	consequence	of	an	obligation	imposed	upon	the	Bank	to	resume	cash
payments	at	the	expiration	of	a	year	from	the	present	time?
—I	do	not	think	it	can
be	done	without	very	great	distress	to	this	country;	it	would	do	a	great	deal	of
mischief;	we	may	not	actually	know	ourselves	what	mischief	it	may	cause.
Have	the	goodness	to	explain	the	nature	of	the	mischief,	and	in	what	way	it
would	be	produced?
—Money	will	be	so	very	scarce,	every	article	in	this	country
will	fall	to	such	an	enormous	extent,	that	many	persons	will	be	ruined.
This	was	no	exaggeration.	Events	would	amply	demonstrate	that	in	embarking
on	monetary	stabilisation	before	resolving	the	post-war	fiscal	crisis,	the
government	was	sailing	into	uncharted	and	potentially	dangerous	waters.	As
Nathan’s	brother-in-law	Abraham	Montefiore	shrewdly	observed	in	1821,
defending	the	record	of	“the	poor	inoffensive	Old	Lady,	Mr.	V[ansittart]”:	“The
only	really	effective	plan	would	be	a	good	property	tax	properly	and	judiciously
levied	to	reach	only	the	opulent	and	those	that	can	afford	to	spare	part	of	their
income,	but	unfortunately	it	so	happens	that	these	very	persons	are	the	law-
makers	themselves	and	their	patriotism	does	not	go	so	far	as	to	reach	their
pockets.”	The	attempt	to	balance	the	budget	with	virtually	no	direct	taxation	at	a
time	of	monetary	deflation	would	prove	a	recipe	for	instability.
	
	
“The	Chief	Ally	of	the	Holy	Alliance”
There	was	one	obvious	response	to	the	difficulties	experienced	by	the
Rothschilds	in	London	and	Paris	between	1815	and	1819:	to	seek	new	business
elsewhere.	The	alternative	was	to	assist	with	the	financial	stabilisation	of	the
other	great	powers:	Austria,	Prussia	and	Russia,	now	grouped	together,	at	the
Tsar’s	suggestion,	as	a	“Holy	Alliance,”	as	well	as	the	various	smaller	states	in
Italy	and	Germany	in	their	respective	spheres	of	influence.	Like	France	and

--- Page 175 ---
Britain,	the	Central	and	East	European	states	emerged	from	the	war	with	dire
financial	problems	which	could	be	addressed	only	with	the	assistance	of	foreign
capital.	As	Disraeli	later	put	it	in	his	novel	
Coningsby:
	“[A]fter	the	exhaustion	of
a	war	of	twenty-five	years,	Europe	must	require	capital	to	carry	on	peace	.	.	.
France	wanted	some;	Austria	more;	Prussia	a	little;	Russia	a	few	millions.”
Moreover,	the	policy	of	the	Holy	Alliance	was	bound	to	create	additional
financial	needs	from	which	the	Rothschilds	could	also	profit.	For	the	principal
aim	of	the	Alliance	was	to	avert	a	recurrence	of	the	revolutionary	“epidemic”
which	had	caused	such	upheaval	in	Europe	between	1789	and	1815—if
necessary	by	military	intervention.	That	implied	further	expenditure.
The	first	major	post-war	loan	which	the	brothers	succeeded	in	making	was	to
Prussia,	which	had	ended	the	Napoleonic	period	with	a	debt	burden	of	around
188	million	thaler	(£32	million)	and	continued	to	run	large	deficits	in	1815,	1816
and	1817.	Although	the	Frankfurt-based	Rothschilds	had	arranged	a	small
Prussian	loan	of	5	million	gulden	(£450,000)	in	early	1817	(much	of	which	they
placed	with	
the	Elector	of	Hesse-Kassel),	the	size	of	the	floating	debt	reached	20
million	thaler	by	the	autumn,	and	the	government	began	to	contemplate	raising	a
loan	in	London.	The	idea	for	such	a	loan	in	fact	originated	with	the
representative	of	the	Prussian	Seehandlung	bank	in	London,	a	merchant	named
Barandon,	who	came	close	to	scuppering	the	entire	project	when	he	rashly
published	details	of	Nathan’s	proposed	terms	in	January	1818.	As	these	were
singularly	tough—the	issue	price	was	to	have	been	60,	implying	an	interest	rate
of	8.33	per	cent—they	provoked	an	outcry	in	Berlin,	where	the	local	bankers
hastened	to	put	together	a	better	offer.	Berating	Nathan	for	having	involved
Barandon,	whose	reputation	in	Paris	was	that	of	a	bankrupt	small-time
commodities	dealer,	Salomon	hastened	from	Paris	to	Koblenz	for	fraught	talks
with	the	Prussian	State	Chancellor	Hardenberg,	and	then	proceeded	to	Berlin,
where	he	and	Carl	managed	to	undo	at	least	some	of	the	damage.	With	the
connivance	of	the	Prussian	minister	in	London,	the	great	educational	and
political	reformer	Wilhelm	von	Humboldt,	Barandon	was	quietly	sidelined—
though	it	was	not	until	after	five	days	of	continuous	bargaining	with	the	finance
official	Rother	(now	Director	in	the	new	Prussian	Treasury)	that	an	agreement
was	finally	secured	in	London	at	the	end	of	March.
9
Historians	have	long	claimed	that	the	Prussian	government’s	decision	to	raise
a	loan	in	London	was	intended	to	avoid	the	need	for	political	concessions—such
as	the	summoning	of	an	assembly	of	the	estates	
(Stände)
	or	the	creation	of	an
independent	judiciary—which	the	recourse	to	domestic	sources	of	finance	might

--- Page 176 ---
have	necessitated.	However,	the	Rothschild	correspondence	tells	a	different
story.	From	the	outset	of	the	negotiations,	Nathan	argued	that	any	loan	would
have	to	be	secured	by	a	mortgage	on	Prussian	royal	domains	guaranteed	by	the
Stände
	of	the	domains	concerned.	When	Hardenberg	demurred,	Nathan	spelt	out
his	reasons	for	wishing	such	a	guarantee	in	a	remarkable	memorandum:
[T]o	induce	British	Capitalists	to	invest	their	money	in	a	loan	to	a	foreign
government	upon	reasonable	terms,	it	will	be	of	the	first	importance	that	the	plan
of	such	a	loan	should	as	much	as	possible	be	assimilated	to	the	established
system	of	borrowing	for	the	public	service	in	England,	and	above	all	things	that
some	security,	beyond	the	mere	good	faith	of	the	government	.	.	.	should	be	held
out	to	the	lenders	.	.	.	Without	some	security	of	this	description	any	attempt	to
raise	a	considerable	sum	in	England	for	a	foreign	Power	would	be	hopeless[;]
the	late	investments	by	British	subjects	in	the	French	Funds	have	proceeded
upon	the	general	belief	that	in	consequence	of	the	representative	system	now
established	in	that	Country,	the	sanction	of	the	Chamber	to	the	national	debt
incurred	by	the	Government	affords	a	guarantee	to	the	Public	Creditor	which
could	not	be	found	in	a	Contract	with	any	Sovereign	uncontrolled	in	the	exercise
of	the	executive	powers.
In	other	words,	a	constitutional	monarchy	was	seen	in	London	as	a	better	credit-
risk	than	a	neo-absolutist	regime.	Was	this	a	subtle	form	of	political	pressure—a
kind	of	financial	liberalism,	lending	its	weight	at	a	critical	time	to	the	efforts	of
the	Prussian	reformers	who	had	been	pressing	Frederick	William	III	to	accept
some	kind	of	system	of	representation?	Or	was	Nathan	merely	justifying	the
differential	between	his	terms	and	those	obtained	by	France	from	Baring?
James’s	positive	allusion	to	the	(notional)	ability	of	French	deputies	to	go	to	the
Treasury	and	“examine	the	books”	
suggests	that	the	Rothschilds	really	did	see
some	kind	of	constitutional	control	over	public	finances	as	desirable,	if	only	as	a
way	of	reassuring	British	investors.	Admittedly,	Nathan	was	prepared	to	settle
for	much	less	than	parliamentary	control	in	the	Prussian	case:	clause	5	of	the
final	contract	merely	stated	that	“for	the	security	of	the	creditors”	there	would	be
a	special	mortgage	on	the	royal	domains	“which	are	wholly	disposable	according
to	the	House[hold]	Law	of	November	6,	1809,	passed	by	H.	M.	the	King	of
Prussia	and	the	princes	of	the	royal	house	with	the	assent	of	the	provincial
estates.”	The	allusion	to	the	estates	could	hardly	have	been	more	oblique.	On	the
other	hand,	the	astonishing	tone	of	some	of	Nathan’s	letters	to	Rother—
especially	when	Rother	attempted	to	modify	the	terms	after	the	contract	had

--- Page 177 ---
been	signed—reveal	his	lack	of	respect	for	the	Prussian	regime:
Dearest	friend,	I	have	now	done	my	duty	by	God,	your	King	and	the	Finance
Minister	von	Rother,	my	money	has	all	gone	to	you	in	Berlin	.	.	.	now	it	is	your
turn	and	duty	to	do	yours,	to	keep	your	word	and	not	to	come	up	with	new
things,	and	everything	must	remain	as	it	was	agreed	between	men	like	us,	and
that	is	what	I	expected,	as	you	can	see	from	my	deliveries	of	money.	The	cabal
there	can	do	nothing	against	N.	M.	Rothschild,	he	has	the	money,	the	strength
and	the	power,	the	cabal	has	only	impotence	and	the	King	of	Prussia,	my	Prince
Hardenberg	and	Minister	Rother	should	be	well	pleased	and	thank	Rothschild,
who	is	sending	you	so	much	money	[and]	raising	Prussia’s	credit.
Moreover,	Nathan’s	insistence	on	some	kind	of	political	guarantee	had
important	political	implications.	There	is	an	obvious	link	from	Nathan’s
negotiations	with	Rother	to	the	subsequent	Clause	2	of	the	“Decree	for	the
Future	Management	of	the	State	Debt”	of	January	17,	1819,	which	imposed	a
ceiling	on	the	state	debt,	earmarked	revenues	from	the	royal	domains	to	service
it	and	declared:	“If	the	state	should	in	future	for	its	maintenance	or	for	the
advancement	of	the	common	good	require	to	issue	a	new	loan,	this	can	only	be
done	in	consultation	with,	and	with	the	guarantee	of,	the	future	imperial	estates
assembly.”	Drafted	by	Rother	himself,	this	meant	that	any	future	loan	by	the
Prussian	state	would	automatically	lead	to	the	summoning	of	the	estates;	in	other
words,	it	conceded	the	link	between	public	borrowing	and	constitutional	reform.
Only	by	raising	loans	indirectly	through	the	notionally	independent	Seehandlung
could	the	Prussian	state	henceforth	borrow	money	without	summoning	the
estates.	This	explains	why,	of	all	the	German	states,	Prussia	borrowed	the	least	in
the	1820s	and	1830s	and	why,	when	the	policy	of	retrenchment	broke	down	in
the	1840s,	the	consequences	were	revolutionary.
Whatever	its	significance	for	Prussian	politics,	the	1818	Prussian	loan	was
without	question	a	watershed	in	the	history	of	the	European	capital	market,	as
contemporaries	came	to	recognise.	For	Nathan’s	demand	for	some	kind	of
political	security	was,	in	financial	terms,	probably	the	least	important	of	the
conditions	he	attached	to	the	loan.	Firstly,	the	loan	was	to	be	not	in	thaler,	but	in
sterling,	with	the	interest	payable	(half-yearly)	not	in	Berlin	but	in	London.
Secondly,	there	was	to	be	a	British-style	sinking	fund	to	ensure	the	amortisation
of	the	loan	(though	Rother	managed	to	get	rid	of	Nathan’s	initial	stipulation	that
it	take	the	form	of	£150,000	of	British	consols).	This	deliberate	Anglicisation	of
a	foreign	loan	was	a	new	departure	for	the	international	capital	market.	The

--- Page 178 ---
Baring	French	loans	had	paid	
interest	in	francs	in	Paris,	with	attendant
inconvenience	and	exchange	rate	risks	for	British	investors.	Now	it	was	much
easier	to	invest	in	foreign	funds;	and	the	fact	that	throughout	the	century	all
foreign	government	bonds	paid	higher	yields	than	British	consols	meant	that
people	did.	
The	Times
	did	not	exaggerate	when	it	later	described	Nathan	as	“the
first	introducer	of	foreign	loans	into	Britain”:
for,	though	such	securities	did	at	all	times	circulate	here,	the	payment	of
dividends	abroad,	which	was	the	universal	practice	before	his	time,	made	them
too	inconvenient	an	investment	for	the	great	majority	of	persons	of	property	to
deal	with.	He	not	only	formed	arrangements	for	the	payment	of	dividends	on	his
foreign	loan	in	London,	but	made	them	still	more	attractive	by	fixing	the	rate	in
sterling	money,	and	doing	away	with	all	the	effects	of	fluctuation	in	exchanges.
Moreover,	the	loan	was	issued	not	just	in	London	but	also	in	Frankfurt,	Berlin,
Hamburg,	Amsterdam	and	Vienna.	In	other	words,	it	represented	a	major	step
towards	the	creation	of	a	completely	international	bond	market.	In	his	book	
On
The	Traffic	in	State	Bonds
	(1825),	the	German	legal	expert	Johann	Heinrich
Bender	identified	this	as	one	of	the	Rothschilds’	principal	contributions	to
modern	economic	development:	“Any	owner	of	government	bonds	.	.	.	can
collect	the	interest	at	his	convenience	in	several	different	places	without	any
effort.”	Henceforth,	an	investor	could	receive	the	interest	on	Austrian
metalliques,	Neapolitan	rentes	or	any	other	Rothshild-issued	bonds	from	any	of
the	Rothschild	houses.	In	stipulating	these	conditions,	Nathan	not	only
succeeded	in	making	the	Prussian	loan	attractive	to	British	and	continental
investors;	he	also	established	a	model	for	such	international	bond	issues	which
would	swiftly	become	standard.
10
Although	the	terms	of	the	loan	were	heavily	criticised	in	Berlin	(not	least	by
the	bankers	there),	Humboldt	and	Rother	were	impressed.	Nathan,	Humboldt
reported	to	Hardenberg,	was	not	only	“the	most	enterprising	businessman	here”;
he	was	also	“dependable	.	.	.	fair,	very	upright	and	understanding”	in	his	dealings
with	governments.	Rother	went	further:	“The	Rothschild	in	this	country	.	.	.	has
an	incredible	influence	upon	all	financial	affairs	here	in	London.	It	is	widely
stated,	and	is,	indeed,	close	to	the	truth,	that	he	entirely	regulates	the	rate	of
exchange	in	the	City.	His	power	as	a	banker	is	enormous.”	His	reputation	in
Berlin	firmly	established,	Nathan	was	able	to	secure	a	second	loan	(to	the
Seehandlung)	in	1822	for	£3.5	million.
In	one	respect,	Rothschild	activity	in	Germany	was	far	from	innovative.

--- Page 179 ---
Hesse-Kassel	was	one	of	those	states	which	had	emerged	intact	from	the
Napoleonic	period,	and	Amschel	was	careful	to	continue	cultivating	the	special
relationship	his	father	had	developed	with	the	Elector.	Now	that	he	had	been
restored	to	his	lands,	however,	William	needed	the	Rothschilds	less,	and	the
family’s	old	rivals	in	Kassel	hastened	to	reassert	their	influence	at	court.	The
Rothschilds	continued	to	manage	some	of	the	Prince’s	financial	affairs,
collecting	his	reparations	from	France,	selling	his	English	stocks	(as	we	have
seen)	at	a	healthy	profit,	trying	to	sort	out	his	tangled	Danish	investments	and
involving	him	in	their	post-war	loans	to	Prussia.	Amschel	even	indulged	his	old
coin-collecting	enthusiasm.	But	there	was	no	doubt	that	the	days	of	mutual
dependence	were	over,	especially	when	Buderus	had	ceased	to	be	the	dominant
force	in	the	Kassel	bureaucracy.	Although	the	brothers	lent	considerable	sums	to
William’s	spendthrift	son,	their	hopes	that	these	highly	unprofitable	transactions
would	bring	more	lucrative	business	after	he	succeeded	his	father	were
disappointed	when	this	finally	happened	in	1821.	Apart	from	two	large	loans	in
1821	and	in	1823	for	a	total	of	4.3	million	gulden	(£390,000),	business	in	Kassel
dried	up.
On	the	other	hand,	Hesse-Kassel	was	only	one	of	thirty-nine	German	states
which	had	emerged	from	the	Napoleonic	upheaval	and	were	now	grouped
together	as	members	of	the	loose	German	Confederation.	And	because	the
Confederation’s	Diet	met	in	Frankfurt—in	a	rented	hall	in	the	Thurn	und	Taxis
palace—it	was	easy	for	Amschel	and	Carl	to	establish	contact	with	senior
diplomatic	representatives	of	all	the	member	states.	This	led	to	a	stream	of
relatively	small-scale	loans	to	minor	German	states	and	princes—including	the
neighbouring	Grand	Duchy	of	Hesse-Darmstadt,	as	well	as	Schaumburg,
Homburg,	Saxe-Weimar,	Anhalt-Coethen	and	Nassau-Usingen—throughout	the
1820s.	Though	the	individual	loans	only	rarely	exceeded	500,000	gulden
(£45,000),	taken	together	they	represented	a	substantial	amount	of	business.
Between	1817	and	1829	total	loans	of	this	sort	by	the	Frankfurt	house	amounted
to	more	than	24.7	million	gulden	(£2.2	million).	While	some	were	little	more
than	personal	loans	to	petty	princes,	others	took	more	sophisticated	forms,	like
the	Hesse-Darmstadt	lottery	loan	of	1825,	one	of	many	premium-bond-style
loans	issued	in	this	period.	On	occasion,	the	Rothschilds	also	acted	as	bankers	to
the	Confederation	itself.	Twenty	million	francs—paid	by	France	under	the	terms
of	the	Peace	of	Paris	for	the	construction	of	fortifications	in	Germany—were
deposited	with	the	Rothschilds	in	1820,	pending	a	decision	by	the	Confederation
to	proceed	with	building	them.	Given	the	slowness	with	which	such	decisions

--- Page 180 ---
were	reached	in	Frankfurt,	this	turned	out	to	be	a	long-term	deposit;	but	it	was
never	certain	how	much	notice	would	be	needed	for	its	withdrawal,	nor	indeed
who	had	the	right	to	request	it.	The	difficulties	this	created	for	the	Rothschilds
may	explain	why	they	never	did	much	to	attract	similar	deposits.
Real	power	in	Germany,	however,	lay	not	in	Frankfurt,	but	in	Vienna,	the
capital	of	the	Confederation’s	dominant	member:	and	it	was	the	Austrian	court
more	than	any	other	which	the	Rothschilds	sought	to	cultivate	in	the	1820s.	As
we	have	seen,	the	Austrians	had	been	reluctant	to	leave	the	payment	of	their
British	subsidies	to	the	Rothschilds	in	the	later	stages	of	the	war	against	France,
preferring	to	deal	with	Viennese	houses	like	Arnstein	&	Eskeles,
11
	Fries	&	Co.
and	Geymüller	&	Co.;	they	had	driven	hard	bargains	over	the	French	reparations
payments	too.	Only	in	partnership	with	the	Frankfurt	banker	Gontard	were	the
brothers	able	to	handle	the	minor	payments	Austria	had	to	receive	in	the	wake	of
the	peace	from	Russia	and	Naples.	But	Vienna	needed	cash	just	as	badly	as	the
other	continental	states	if	it	was	to	consolidate	its	large	floating	debt	and	stabilise
its	heavily	depreciated	currency.	Although	its	first	major	post-war	loan	of	50
million	gulden	was	concluded—to	Rothschild	chagrin—with	the	Anglo-
Hanseatic	Parish	brothers	in	partnership	with	Baring,	Bethmann	and	Geymüller,
it	was	obvious,	with	annual	expenditure	running	above	100	million	Austrian
gulden,	that	more	would	soon	be	needed.	The	breakthrough	came	in	1820,	when
Salomon	jointly	organised	two	lottery	loans	worth	45	million	Austrian	gulden	(c.
£4.8	million)	in	partnership	with	David	Parish—a	transaction	so	profitable	that,
despite	the	hostile	comment	it	aroused,	Salomon	resolved	to	remain	in	Vienna	on
a	more	or	less	permanent	basis.
The	final	coup	which	completed	the	Rothschilds’	emergence	as	“bankers	to
the	Holy	Alliance”	came	in	1822,	with	the	loan	to	Russia.	Here,	as	in	Prussia	and
Austria,	the	war	had	generated	acute	fiscal	and	monetary	problems:	public
spending	had	roughly	quadrupled	between	1803	and	1815	as	had	the	circulation
of	paper	roubles,	leading	to	the	inevitable	inflation	and	currency	depreciation.
And	despite	having	allowed	the	Rothschilds	to	handle	so	much	of	her	wartime
subsidy	payments	and	subsequent	reparations	contributions,	Russia	too	turned
first	to	others	for	assistance	with	stabilisation:	it	was	Baring	and	Reid,	Irving
who	handled	the	1820	loan,	for	example.	This,	however,	was	no	great
disappointment,	as	the	Russians	at	this	stage	were	still	refusing	to	follow	the
Prussian	example	of	issuing	a	loan	denominated	in	sterling	and	with	interest
payable	in	London.	Two	years	later	the	Russians,	like	the	Austrians	before	them,
had	come	round.	In	the	summer	of	1822	a	loan	of	£6.6	million	was	issued	by

--- Page 181 ---
Nathan	in	5	per	cent	bonds	priced	at	77,	which	he	had	no	difficulty	in	selling	at
prices	of	80	and	more	to	his	network	of	London	brokers,	led	by	his	brother-in-
law	Moses	Montefiore.
Thus	by	the	end	of	1822	the	Rothschilds	could	justifiably	be	regarded	as
bankers	to	the	Holy	Alliance—“la	haute	Trésorerie	de	la	Sainte	Alliance.”
Indeed,	when	the	itinerant	German	Prince	Pückler-Muskau	first	described
Nathan	in	a	letter	to	his	wife,	he	introduced	him	as	“the	chief	ally	of	the	Holy
Alliance.”	There	is	unquestionably	a	sense	in	which	it	was	the	Rothschilds	who
gave	the	alliance	substance.	When	the	Austrian	Emperor	remarked	to	his	envoy
in	Frankfurt	that	Amschel	was	“richer	than	I	am,”	he	was	not	being	wholly
facetious.	
The	Times
	correspondent	reported	from	St	Petersburg	that	the	mere
appearance	of	James	Rothschild	at	the	bourse	was	expected	to	boost	Russian
bond	prices.	Without	the	financial	support	which	Nathan	in	particular	could
provide,	it	would	have	been	harder	to	make	the	Austrian	strategy	of	“policing”
Europe	effective	in	the	1820s.	Political	critics	of	this	strategy	recognised	this.
Nathan	was	caricatured	as	the	“Hollow	Alliance’s”	insurance	broker,	helping	to
prevent	political	fire	in	Europe.	In	1821	he	even	received	a	death	threat	because
of	“his	connexion	with	foreign	powers,	and	particularly	the	assistance	rendered
to	Austria,	on	account	of	the	designs	of	that	government	against	the	liberties	of
Europe.”
	
Finance	and	Revolution
It	had,	of	course,	been	assumed	by	the	founders	of	the	Holy	Alliance	that	the
best	way	of	preventing	a	renewed	revolutionary	upheaval	in	Europe	would	be	a
policy	of	“containment”	directed	against	France,	the	
fons	et	origo
	of	revolution
since	1789.	While	that	would	prove	to	be	the	right	strategy	later,	in	1830	and	in
1848,	in	the	1820s	it	quickly	had	to	be	abandoned	as	it	became	evident	that	the
political	order	established	at	Vienna	could	be	challenged	almost	anywhere.
When	August	von	Kotzebue—a	minor	hack	reputed	to	be	in	the	pay	of	the	Tsar
—was	murdered	in	Mannheim	by	a	radically	inclined	student,	Karl	Sand,	it
suited	Metternich	quite	well	as	the	pretext	for	a	crackdown	on	liberal	tendencies
throughout	the	German	Confederation.	Like	the	assassination	of	the	King’s
nephew,	the	duc	de	Berry,	in	Paris	in	February	1820,	one	death	did	not	portend	a
serious	revolution.	But	the	Cadiz	mutiny	by	army	units	destined	for	South
America	that	January	was	the	real	thing,	as	it	led	not	only	to	the	reimposition	of
the	1812	Cortes	constitution	on	the	Spanish	King	Ferdinand	VIII,	but	also	to	the
imposition	of	the	same	constitution	
on	his	uncle,	Ferdinand	I	of	Naples,	just	six

--- Page 182 ---
months	later.	The	“domino	effect”	continued	in	August	1820,	with	a	military
revolt	in	Portugal.	In	March	1821	there	were	risings	by	Italians	in	Piedmont	and
by	Greeks	throughout	the	Near	East.	The	abortive	Decembrist	movement	in
Russia	in	1824-5	was	part	of	the	same	pattern:	the	unrest	was	often	led	by
disenchanted	soldiers	(the	victims	of	post-war	cuts	in	defence	spending),	or	by
secret	societies	like	the	Italian	Carbonari	or	the	Spanish	Freemasons.	Indeed,	so
widespread	was	the	political	instability	that	France,	the	former	outcast,	had	to	be
co-opted	into	the	counter-revolutionary	coalition.	The	question	which	came	to
dominate	the	congresses	of	Troppau	(October	to	December	1820),	Laibach
(January	1821)	and	Verona	(September	to	December	1822)	was	how	far	this
coalition	should	intervene	in	the	affairs	of	other	states	to	prevent	the	success	of
localised	revolutions.	The	financial	question	this	begged,	of	course,	was	whether
or	not	they	could	afford	to	do	so.	In	so	far	as	they	helped	to	finance	Austrian
intervention	in	Italy	and	French	intervention	in	Spain,	the	Rothschilds	deserve	to
be	thought	of	as	financiers	of	“reaction.”
From	the	Rothschild	viewpoint,	however,	the	instability	of	Restoration	Europe
was	not	only	a	source	of	potential	new	business;	it	was	also	a	threat	to	the
stability	of	financial	markets.	Existing	loans	to	regimes	which	suddenly	looked
vulnerable	slumped	as	alarmed	investors	sought	to	sell	their	bonds.	Even
successful	armed	intervention,	by	throwing	the	Austrian	and	French	budgets	into
deficit,	had	similar	negative	side-effects.	On	the	other	hand,	the	emergence	of
new	states	in	those	regions	where	revolutions	actually	succeeded	created	a
source	of	new	business	too.	In	particular,	the	creation	of	independent	states	in
Brazil,	in	formerly	Spanish	America	and	in	Greece	led	to	numerous	new	bond
issues	as	fledgling	regimes	rushed	to	the	London	and	Paris	capital	markets.	For
that	reason,	the	role	of	the	Rothschilds’	financial	power	was	ambivalent.
On	the	Italian	peninsula,	matters	were	relatively	straightforward:	the
Rothschilds	supported	Metternich’s	policy	of	divide	and	rule	by	lending	to	the
various	monarchical	regimes	which	had	his	backing.	As	early	as	December	1820
Metternich	wrote	to	Salomon	from	Troppau	alluding	suggestively	to	a
transaction	involving	25	or	30	million	francs	“with	respect	to	the	future	fate	of
the	Kingdom	of	Naples.”	The	banker’s	initial	response	was	positive.	“Even	our
financiers,	led	by	Parish	and	Rothschild,”	so	the	Austrian	Finance	Minister
Stadion	assured	Metternich	at	Laibach	in	January	1821,	“are	only	anxious	to	see
our	troops	across	the	Po	at	the	earliest	possible	moment,	and	marching	on
Naples.”	Nevertheless,	Salomon	was	unenthusiastic	when	Metternich	and
Nesselrode	invited	him	to	Laibach	to	discuss	possible	loans,	the	purpose	of

--- Page 183 ---
which	was	evidently	to	pay	for	intervention.	“My	presence	there,”	he	explained
to	Nesselrode,	“might	give	rise	to	numerous	and	probably	highly	inaccurate
newspaper	reports.	Persons	with	base	motives	might	unearth	the	fact	that	a	loan
to	the	most	gracious	monarchs	was	being	discussed;	rumour	would	be	piled	upon
rumour,	and	this	would	not	be	at	all	agreeable	in	the	highest	quarters.”	Firstly,
the	prospect	of	a	new	Austrian	loan	would	depress	the	Vienna	market,	already
shaken	by	the	Italian	crisis.	Secondly,	the	Rothschilds	had	no	desire	to	make
their	role	in	financing	the	Holy	Alliance	so	public.	Instead,	Salomon	insisted	to
Stadion	that	any	loan	should	be	raised	by	Ferdinand	I	only	after	his	restoration	to
power,	the	proceeds	to	be	used	to	reimburse	the	Austrian	government	for	the
costs	of	intervention.	In	the	meantime,	he	offered	Stadion	short-term	
advances	to
finance	General	Frimont’s	advance	south.	As	in	the	Napoleonic	Wars,	the
Rothschilds	used	their	extensive	banking	network	to	make	cash	available	at
reasonable	rates	to	an	army	on	the	march.	And,	as	before,	one	of	the	brothers—
this	time	Carl	(“un	petit	frère	Rothschild,”	as	he	seemed	to	Stadion)—had	to	be
sent	to	the	scene	of	the	action	to	ensure	that	all	ran	smoothly.	In	March	1821
Carl	set	off	from	Vienna	to	join	Metternich	and	the	exiled	Neapolitan	king	at
Laibach.
To	Metternich,	the	Neapolitan	campaign	was	nothing	less	than	a	counter-
revolutionary	crusade:	“We	have	embarked,”	he	told	Stadion,
on	a	great	undertaking,	one	that	contains	the	possibilities	of	greater	results	than
any	of	our	time.	It	is	great,	for	upon	its	success	or	failure	the	whole	future
depends;	not	merely	the	future	of	the	Austrian	monarchy,	but	that	of	the	whole	of
Europe	.	.	.	It	was	impossible	for	us	to	take	any	other	action,	for	it	is	a	matter	of
life	or	death	.	.	.	everything	now	depends	upon	success.	If	not,	the	result	will	be
the	same	as	if	we	had	ventured	nothing;	the	revolution	will	engulf	first	Italy	and
then	the	world.	I	will	spare	no	effort	until	I	am	killed	myself.
But	financial	reality	gave	the	lie	to	such	rhetoric.	There	were	recurrent	shortages
of	supplies	at	the	front,	while	in	Vienna	Stadion	despairingly	foresaw	a	return	to
the	fiscal	and	monetary	morass	of	the	Napoleonic	period.	Indeed,	Salomon	had
to	intervene	to	prevent	a	slump	in	the	price	of	“metalliques”	(Austrian	silver-
denominated	bonds).	The	crisis	deepened	when	reports	reached	Laibach	of
further	revolutionary	outbreaks	in	Piedmont.	The	impact	of	this	news	in	Vienna
appalled	the	hapless	Stadion:
If	the	enemy	were	at	the	gates	there	could	not	be	more	unreasoning	panic.	The
whole	of	the	population	of	Vienna	is	rushing	to	the	Bourse	to	get	rid	of	our

--- Page 184 ---
public	securities	.	.	.	Our	credit	(which	has	only	just	been	established)	is	on	the
eve	of	vanishing	completely.	I	shall	be	forced	to	suspend	the	conversion	of	paper
money	into	cash	.	.	.	destroying	in	one	day	the	labours	of	the	preceding	five
years	.	.	.	This	is	the	first	step	to	our	destruction.	It	is	impossible	that	a	loan
should	be	considered,	either	at	home	or	abroad,	at	a	time	when	our	securities	are
becoming	worthless.
By	March	24,	however,	Naples	had	fallen,	and	Carl	hurried	south	after
Ferdinand	to	organise	the	now	desperately	needed	loan	from	which	the	Austrians
were	to	be	reimbursed.
At	this	point,	a	conflict	of	interests	emerged:	the	Austrian	government	wished
to	exact	the	maximum	sum	possible,	but	the	Rothschilds	had	a	low	opinion	of
Neapolitan	creditworthiness,	and	were	willing	to	lend	to	the	restored	regime	only
at	punitive	rates,	while	the	Bourbon	regime	itself	faced	the	prospect	of	renewed
unrest	if	it	was	burdened	with	onerous	new	debts.	The	first	Neapolitan	loan	was
a	hard-won	compromise,	with	Carl	being	forced	to	improve	his	initial	offer	to
head	off	competition	from	a	rival	Milanese	banker:	instead	of	10	million	ducats
at	a	discounted	price	of	54,	he	agreed	to	lend	the	government	16	million	(around
£2	million)	at	60.	To	help	meet	the	costs	of	the	continuing	Austrian	occupation,	a
second	loan	was	issued	in	November	1821,	of	16.8	million	ducats,	underwritten
at	67.3.	Two	more	loans	followed	for	22	million	ducats	in	1822	and	£2.5	million
in	1824,	
increasing	the	state’s	debt	to	around	£13	million	in	all.	Nevertheless,	the
price	of	Neapolitan	securities	rose	in	Paris	from	65	to	103,	and	in	London	there
was	considerable	enthusiasm	for	the	sterling-denominated	bonds.	This
successful	stabilisation	partly	reflected	the	good	relationship	which	had
developed	between	Carl	and	the	new	Neapolitan	Finance	Minister,	Luigi	de’
Medici,	whose	claim	that	the	Austrians	were	unnecessarily	prolonging	the
occupation	and	overcharging	for	their	presence	Carl	was	inclined	to	support.
Even	before	the	Congress	of	Verona	in	late	1822,	it	was	obvious	that	the
Austrians	intended	to	recoup	the	costs	of	the	invasion	in	full:	of	4.65	million
gulden	which	Metternich	demanded	in	August	1821	as	payment	for	the	actual
invasion,	4	million	had	been	received	by	the	following	February,	and	to	this	were
added	occupation	costs	of	9	million	ducats	per	annum.	By	1825	Medici	was
accusing	the	Austrian	government	of	deliberately	profiting	from	the	occupation
and	threatened	to	resign	unless	more	than	1	million	ducats	were	repaid.	When
the	Viennese	authorities	stalled,	Carl	advanced	the	money	to	Medici—to
Metternich’s	evident	irritation.
12

--- Page 185 ---
The	Austrian	intervention	in	Naples	provided	a	classic	illustration	of	the
difficulty	of	maintaining	good	relations	with	both	sides	in	a	bilateral
international	transfer.	Nevertheless,	Carl	had	probably	struck	the	right	balance
between	Austrian	and	Italian	interests.	While	his	establishment	in	Naples
flourished	on	the	strength	of	his	ties	with	the	Bourbon	regime	(and	also	did	some
business	with	the	Grand	Duke	of	Tuscany),	Metternich	continued	to	turn	to
Salomon	for	financial	assistance	over	other	Italian	matters—notably	the
complicated	5	million	lire	loan	organised	to	provide	for	the	children	of	the
Archduchess	Marie-Louise,	the	Habsburg	Princess	who	had	briefly	been	married
to	Napoleon,	and	who	had	been	established	after	his	fall	in	the	duchies	of	Parma,
Piacenza	and	Guastalla.
13
	Another	such	case	concerned	the	finances	of
Napoleon’s	former	Governor	in	Illyria,	Marshal	de	Marmont,	the	Duke	of
Ragusa.	At	the	same	time,	the	Austrian	government	found	itself	once	again
having	to	turn	to	the	Rothschilds	to	satisfy	its	own	burgeoning	financial	needs.
For	no	matter	how	much	could	be	squeezed	out	of	Naples,	the	costs	of	the
military	intervention	there	far	exceeded	what	Stadion	could	raise	in	current
revenue.	There	was	no	alternative	but	another	loan;	and	although	some	officials
were	minded	to	reject	the	initial	Rothschild	bid,	the	government	ended	up
bowing	to	the	inevitable,	although	it	managed	to	secure	improved	terms.
14
Vienna’s	dependence	on	the	Rothschilds	was	further	increased	in	1823,	when
the	British	government,	in	an	attempt	to	exert	pressure	on	Vienna	to	end	its
occupation	of	Naples,	raised	the	question	of	outstanding	loans—now	notionally
totalling	£23.5	million	including	interest—which	had	been	given	to	Austria	in
the	early	stages	of	the	war	against	France.	Once	again	Austria	turned	to	the
Rothschilds,	pressing	Salomon	to	use	his	brother’s	influence	in	London	to	get
the	debt	scaled	down—the	first	of	many	occasions	when	the	Rothschilds	would
act	as	an	unofficial	channel	for	Metternich’s	diplomatic	communications.	When
this	had	finally	been	achieved,	the	Rothschilds	offered	to	organise	yet	another
loan,	in	partnership	with	Baring	and	Reid,	Irving,	to	pay	the	agreed	sum	of	£2.5
million.	Thirty	million	gulden	of	new	metalliques	were	taken	by	the	banks	at	an
underwriting	price	of	82.33,	and	were	soon	trading	at	93,	yielding	a	substantial
profit	to	the	banks.	Another	15	million	gulden	loan	followed	in	1826.	Ultimately,
the	Austrian	policy	of	intervention	in	Italy	had	yielded	multiple	profits	for	the
Rothschilds.
By	contrast,	the	outbreak	of	revolution	in	Spain	raised	more	serious	dilemmas.
For	two	years	after	1820,	the	gout-ridden	despot	Ferdinand	VII	endured	the
Cortes	constitution,	and	in	that	period	the	liberal	government	raised	a	number	of

--- Page 186 ---
loans	(which	were	needed	to	compensate	for	the	shortfall	in	revenues	caused	by
the	revolution).	Although	the	Rothschilds—as	Salomon	hastened	to	reassure
Metternich—were	not	at	first	involved	in	these,	they	were	preparing	to	take	a
hand	when,	in	July	1822,	Ferdinand	and	his	Ultra-royalist	supporters
unexpectedly	attempted	to	overthrow	the	Cortes,	calling	for	foreign	intervention
when	their	coup	failed.	At	this	point	James	became	involved	in	an	attempt	by	the
Spanish	financier	Bertran	de	Lys	to	forestall	an	invasion	by	reconstituting	the
government	on	less	“exalted”	(that	is,	radical)	lines.
15
	It	was	too	late,	however;
in	April	1823,	a	French	expedition	analogous	to	the	Austrian	invasion	of	Naples
was	launched	under	the	leadership	of	Louis	XVIII’s	surviving	nephew,	the	duc
d’Angoulême,	and	with	the	enthusiastic	support	of	revanchist	diplomats	like	the
vicomte	de	Chateaubriand.
Ever	the	pragmatist—and	anxious	not	to	be	out-flanked	by	that	seasoned
military	paymaster	Ouvrard—James	now	offered	his	services	to	the	French
Prime	Minister,	the	comte	de	Villèle:	just	as	his	brother	had	supplied	the
Austrian	army	in	Italy	with	cash,	so	he	now	made	himself	“useful”	to
d’Angoulême,	even	raising	the	ransom	money	needed	to	buy	Ferdinand	VII’s
release.
16
	And	just	as	military	intervention	had	necessitated	a	new	loan	in
Vienna,	so	too	in	Paris	the	government	was	obliged	to	fund	its	military	adventure
by	borrowing:	in	1823	James	was	at	last	able	to	overcome	the	suspicion	of	the
Restoration	regime	and	secure	a	major	French	loan.	Worth	462	million	francs
(nominal)	or	£18.5	million,	it	was	the	biggest	single	issue	of	rentes	by	a	French
government	between	1815	and	1848	and	had	been	preceded	by	a	smaller	issue	of
120	million	in	6	per	cent	treasury	bills,	also	handled	by	James.	Given	the
importance	of	such	issues	throughout	James’s	long	career	in	Paris,	it	is	worth
noting	how	he	pulled	off	this	deal.	Rather	as	his	father	had	initially	squeezed	out
his	rivals	in	Kassel,	James	won	his	first	rentes	issue	by	outbidding	Lafitte	and
three	other	Paris	bankers,	offering	a	price	(89.55)	which	was	actually	above	the
current	market	rate.	This	was	more	than	enough	to	beat	the	rival	group’s	offer	of
87.75,	but	it	did	not	leave	James	out	of	pocket:	the	success	of	the	operation
quickly	pushed	rentes	up	above	90	and	by	the	end	of	1823	they	had	reached	100.
The	difference	between	Naples	and	Spain	was	that	after	the	restoration	of	the
Spanish	Bourbon	(which	had	been	achieved	by	the	end	of	1824),	the	Rothschilds
declined—after	contemplating	a	joint	operation	with	Baring	and	Reid,	Irving—
to	lend	to	his	neo-absolutist	regime	without	guarantees	which	the	French
government	was	unwilling	to	give.
17
	There	were	three	reasons	for	this:	the
regime’s	refusal	to	recognise	and	redeem	the	bonds	issued	by	the	Cortes,	its

--- Page 187 ---
refusal	to	repay	France	the	costs	of	the	invasion	and,	finally,	the	bankers’
suspicion	that	any	money	lent	to	Ferdinand	might	be	used	in	a	last	and	probably
vain	attempt	to	recapture	his	former	colonies	in	South	America,	which	had	been
fighting	successfully	for	their	independence	since	1808.	After	all,	had	not	the
1820	revolution	begun	with	a	mutiny	by	soldiers	about	to	be	sent	across	the
Atlantic?	And	were	not	Ferdinand’s	advisers	convinced	that	recovering	the
American	colonies	would	solve	all	his	financial	problems?	It	was	the	South
American	dimension	which	particularly	concerned	the	British	government.
While	London	had	been	prepared	to	put	up	with	the	French	expedition	into
Spain,	despite	its	implicit	negation	of	Wellington’s	victory	in	the	Peninsular	
War,
the	notion	that	this	might	be	the	prelude	to	some	kind	of	reconquest	of	Latin
America,	with	whose	fledgling	republics	Britain	was	rapidly	forging	close
economic	ties,	was	wholly	unpalatable.	As	the	Austrian	ambassador	in	Paris
reported	to	Metternich:	“Although	the	House	of	Rothschild	may	pretend	that
their	sympathies	are	purely	monarchist,	the	recognition	of	the	engagements
entered	into	by	the	Cortes	Government,	and	the	independence	of	the	Spanish
colonies,	would	provide	a	far	wider	field	for	his	[Nathan’s]	financial	enterprises
and	afford	political	security,	the	value	of	which	they	do	not	fail	to	appreciate.”	In
short,	the	Rothschild	role	in	Spain	had	been	ambivalent:	initially	showing	signs
of	interest	in	the	Cortes	government,	then	financing	the	French	invasion,	but
declining	to	bankroll	the	restored	regime.	James,	Salomon	and	Nathan	all	came
under	conflicting	pressures	from	the	governments	in	Paris,	Vienna	and	London;
but	the	final	outcome	was	a	united	and	carefully	calculated	policy	of	non-
commitment,	which	was	continued	throughout	the	decade.	As	James	put	it
succinctly	in	1826,	“Spain’s	bankruptcy	is	uppermost	in	my	mind.”
The	Rothschilds	kept	a	safe	distance	from	the	numerous	bond	issues	by	the
former	Spanish	colonies	which	were	generating	such	speculative	enthusiasm	in
London	at	the	time	of	the	French	intervention.	The	years	1822-4	were	the	time
of	the	great	South	American	“bubble,”	as	investors	rushed	to	lend	to	new
republics	like	Chile,	Colombia,	Buenos	Aires	and	Guatemala.	Even	as	unlikely	a
figure	as	Gregor	MacGregor,	a	Scottish	adventurer	and	former	general	in	the
Venezuelan	army,	was	able	to	raise	£200,000	by	styling	himself	the	“Caique	of
Poyais”	and	persuading	investors	that	the	malarial	swamp	in	Honduras	which	he
claimed	to	rule	was	ripe	for	development.	With	a	bravado	it	is	impossible	not	to
admire,	MacGregor	even	wrote	to	Nathan	outlining	a	project	for	an	independent
Hebrew	colony	in	his	“kingdom”	on	an	island	called	Ruatan.	From	all	this	the
Rothschilds	remained	aloof,	with	one	exception:	Brazil.	There	were	two	reasons

--- Page 188 ---
for	this	preference.	Firstly,	Brazil	remained	closely	linked	to	Portugal	and
therefore	enjoyed	close	commercial	ties	with	Britain;	secondly,	it	retained	a
monarchical	form	of	government	even	after	gaining	independence	in	1825.
(Indeed,	the	fact	that	the	Brazilian	Emperor	was	married	to	an	Austrian	princess
inclined	some	contemporaries	to	regard	Brazil	as	a	kind	of	American
representative	of	the	Holy	Alliance,	though	this	exaggerated	Austrian
influence.)
18
	Nathan’s	first	step	in	this	direction	came	in	1823,	with	a	loan	of
£1.5	million	to	Portugal,	secured	on	Brazilian	revenues.	This	once	again
demonstrated	his	willingness	to	lend	to	a	constitutional	regime,	as	the
Portuguese	King	had	accepted	a	Spanish-style	constitution	drafted	by	the	Lisbon
Cortes	on	his	return	from	Brazil	in	1822.	The	water	for	Brazilian	bonds	proper
was	tested	in	1824	by	a	City	group	led	by	Thomas	Wilson,	which	sold	over	a
million	pounds’	worth	of	5	per	cent	bonds	at	an	issue	price	of	75.	When	these
rose	to	87,	Nathan	took	over,	issuing	a	further	£2	million	in	1825	at	a	price	of	85.
As	Heinrich	Heine	later	joked,	Nathan	was	now	“the	great	Rothschild,	the	great
Nathan	Rothschild,	Nathan	the	Wise,	with	whom	the	Emperor	of	Brazil	has
pawned	his	diamond	crown.”	Though	it	fell	into	disuse	during	the	middle
decades	of	the	century,	the	relationship	with	Brazil	was	to	prove	one	of	the
firm’s	most	enduring.
By	the	summer	of	1825,	therefore,	the	Rothschilds	had	succeeded
triumphantly	in	establishing	themselves	as	the	leading	specialists	in	European
public	finance—and	not	only	European.	One	by	one,	the	powers	of	the	Holy
Alliance	had	followed	
the	British	lead,	entrusting	their	loans	to	Rothschilds:	first
Prussia,	then	Austria,	then	Russia.	Finally,	France	too	had	to	abandon	her
preference	for	more	established	Parisian	houses.	In	the	space	of	three	years,	the
brothers	had	provided	the	crucial	financial	assistance	which	enabled	Austria	to
suppress	revolution	in	Naples,	and	France	to	restore	royal	absolutism	in	Spain.
Yet	their	contemporary	image	as	“bankers	to	the	Holy	Alliance”	was	in	some
respects	a	caricature.	It	understated	what	might	be	called	their	political
agnosticism,	their	tendency	to	assess	business	opportunities	in	financial	rather
than	political	terms.	James	neatly	summed	up	the	Rothschild	attitude	to
Restoration	politics	in	an	exuberant	letter	to	Nathan	in	late	1826:
It	would	be	a	mortal	sin	to	be	dependent	on	a	Villèle	and	on	a	Canning	and	on
what	these	Gentlemen	may	wish	to	say	in	the	Chambers,	as	a	result	of	which	one
will	be	unable	to	sleep	at	night,	and	why	so?	Because	they	want	more	than	they
can	afford	to	pay	and	we	have	to	thank	the	dear	Lord	that	we	can	extricate

--- Page 189 ---
ourselves	from	this	situation.	What	we	now	want	to	say	is,	“[You	want]	a	loan?
You	can	have	one,	as	much	as	you	want,	and	draw	a	certain	profit	from	it.	But	to
keep	all	the	millions,	to	that	we	say	no!”
The	attraction	of	counter-revolution,	in	other	words,	was	not	that	it	restored
despots,	but	that	it	generated	new	financial	needs.	Nor	were	conservative
regimes	given	preferential	treatment.	As	the	conditions	attached	to	the	1818
Prussian	loan	show,	Nathan	in	fact	saw	constitutional	structures	for	controlling
government	finance	as	preferable	to	the	extravagance	and	inefficiency	which
often	characterised	absolutist	regimes,	and	which	in	any	case	tended	sooner	or
later	to	generate	revolutionary	pressures.	Ultimately,	that	was	why	he	was
unwilling	to	lend	to	absolutist	Spain	without	a	guarantee	from	constitutional
France.	Such	views	would	also	condition	the	Rothschilds’	attitude	to	the
increasingly	reactionary	drift	of	French	policy	under	Charles	X,	who	succeeded
his	brother	in	September	1824.	And	if,	on	the	other	hand,	the	Rothschilds
preferred	to	lend	to	a	constitutional	monarchy	like	Brazil	rather	than	a	republic
like	Colombia,	events	would	soon	confirm	the	economic	rationality	of	that
preference.	Where	Laffitte,	the	follower	of	Saint-Simon,	was	“truly	liberal”	(in
Byron’s	phrase),	Rothschild	was	more	politically	ambivalent,	a	conditional
supporter	of	the	Holy	Alliance	at	best.
	
	
Saving	an	Old	Lady
If	the	French	Prime	Minister	Villèle	had	hoped	the	large	1823	loan	would
ultimately	“free	him	from	the	hands	of	these	gentlemen”—meaning	the
Rothschilds—he	quickly	found	himself	more	firmly	in	their	grip.	The	sustained
rise	of	the	rentes	in	1823-4	was	not	so	much	proof	of	“the	strength	and	power	of
France”;	it	was	proof	that	interest	rates	throughout	Europe	were	falling.	This
presented	the	Rothschilds	with	a	new	business	opportunity:	the	conversion	of
government	bonds	bearing	higher	rates	of	interest	into	new	bonds	with	lower
rates.	Though	new	to	France,	such	operations	had	been	undertaken	in	Britain
before	(for	example,	in	1717	and	1748-57).	Indeed,	Vansittart	had	converted
£150	million	of	5	per	cents	into	4	per	cents	in	1822;	and	two	years	later	a	further
£75	million	of	4	per	cents	were	converted	into	3.5	per	cents	by	Frederick
Robinson,	his	successor.	For	the	governments	which	undertook	such
conversions,	the	benefit	was	obvious:	the	
annual	burden	of	debt	service	was
significantly	reduced.	For	the	Rothschilds,	the	benefit	was	obvious	too:	such

--- Page 190 ---
large-scale	operations	justified	fat	fees.	The	only	difficulty	lay	in	persuading
bondholders	who	had	enjoyed	substantial	capital	appreciation	and	wished	to
continue	enjoying	annual	interest	of	4	or	5	per	cent	to	accept	less.	One	reason	for
the	boom	in	continental	and	Latin	American	bonds	between	1822	and	1824	was
precisely	the	refusal	of	British	bondholders	to	do	so.	Confronted	with	the	option
of	converting	their	British	5	or	4	per	cents	or	redeeming	them	and	reinvesting	the
cash	in	higher-yielding	assets,	many	did	the	latter,	fuelling	the	speculative	fever.
In	France,	when	Villèle	proposed	to	convert	2,800	million	francs	of	5	per	cent
rentes	into	3	per	cents	issued	at	75,	the	bondholders’	reaction	took	a	different
form.	The	arguments	for	conversion	were	the	same	as	in	England:	more	than	a
third	of	the	French	budget	was	being	consumed	by	the	costs	of	servicing	the
state’s	debt	and,	with	5	per	cents	rising	from	93	to	a	peak	of	106,	the	time	for
such	an	operation	seemed	right.
19
	But	the	proposal	became	mixed	up	with	the
vexed	question	of	compensation	for	losses	suffered	by	royalist	émigrés	during
the	Revolution	and	was	narrowly	rejected	in	the	Upper	House	following
spurious	claims	by	Chateaubriand	and	others	(notably	financiers	like	Casimir
Périer	who	had	been	excluded	from	the	deal)	that	it	was	an	Anglo-Austrian
racket	to	defraud	the	humble	French	rentier.	A	second,	heavily	modified	scheme
—which	offered	to	convert	5	per	cents	on	a	voluntary	basis	in	return	for	tax
breaks—was	pushed	through	in	1825,	but	only	30	million	francs’	worth	of	bonds
were	exchanged,	leaving	James	with	a	substantial	sum	on	his	hands	at	a	time
when	the	market	price	was	falling.	Ouvrard	later	claimed	that	the	Rothschilds
had	doubly	insured	themselves	against	the	possible	failure	of	the	first	conversion
scheme	by	not	only	insisting	on	an	official	safety	net	of	100	million	in	treasury
bills	(to	be	issued	if	the	banks	were	left	with	large	quantities	of	rentes	on	their
hands),	but	also	surreptitiously	selling	both	5	per	cents	and	3	per	cents.
Suspicions	that	the	Rothschilds	were	cutting	their	losses	by	selling	rentes—
which	were	justified	in	1825
20
—brought	to	an	end	the	brief	period	of
harmonious	relations	with	Villèle	which	had	begun	in	1823.	In	the	wake	of	the
conversion	fiasco,	the	French	premier	made	a	concerted	effort	to	direct
government	business	back	to	James’s	rivals	in	Paris,	organising	Laffitte	and	the
Receivers-General	into	a	syndicate	to	undertake	a	loan	to	Haiti	and	to	issue
1,000	million	francs	of	3	per	cent	rentes	for	the	benefit	of	the	dispossessed
émigrés.
Yet	the	reality	was	that	the	Rothschilds	had	enjoyed	a	lucky	escape.	As
Nathan’s	well	informed	
Times
	obituarist	remembered:

--- Page 191 ---
[H]ad	it	[the	Villèle	conversion]	been	carried,	the	convulsion	in	the	money
markets	of	Europe	which	shortly	followed	it	would	probably	have	proved	fatal	to
him	with	such	a	burden	on	his	shoulders,	notwithstanding	all	his	vast	resources.
Indeed,	it	was	a	common	remark	of	his	own	at	the	time,	that	neither	he	nor	the
houses	engaged	in	the	undertaking	with	him	could	have	stood	the	shock.
21
It	was	indeed	fortunate	that	Villèle’s	scheme	foundered	when	it	did.	For	1825
was	to	be	the	year	in	which	the	great	speculative	bubble	burst	on	the	London
stock	exchange.	And	not	only	would	it	have	been	awkward	for	Nathan	to	have
been	left	holding	millions	of	3	per	cent	rentes	at	such	a	time;	the	conversion
might	also	have	
made	it	more	difficult	for	his	brother	James	to	assist	him	in
containing	the	English	banking	crisis	of	that	year.
The	1825	crisis	had	in	many	ways	been	prophesied	by	Nathan	and	the	other
opponents	of	the	decision	to	resume	gold	convertibility	six	years	before.
Between	1818	and	1823	the	Bank	of	England’s	note	circulation	fell	by	around	a
third,	a	dramatic	contraction.	In	1824	a	temporary	influx	of	gold	generated	a	big
expansion	in	the	note	issue,	but	this	was	followed	by	an	equally	sharp
contraction	in	1825.	At	the	same	time,	though	fiscal	policy	was	gradually	being
brought	under	control	following	Vansittart’s	resignation	in	December	1822,	the
enthusiasm	of	Huskisson	at	the	Board	of	Trade	for	cuts	in	import	duties	made
balancing	the	budget	harder	than	it	might	have	been.	The	medium-term	aim	of
these	first	steps	towards	free	trade	was	to	increase	the	volume	of	commercial
activity,	in	conformity	with	the	principles	of	the	political	economists;	but	the
short-term	effect	was	to	reduce	revenues.	Even	with	sharp	cuts	in	expenditure,
the	government	still	found	itself	having	to	resort	to	both	short-	and	long-term
borrowing.	Moreover,	as	Nathan	complained,	Huskisson’s	policy	was	also
giving	rise	to	a	trade	deficit:	as	he	told	Herries	in	April	1825,	“The	consequence
of	admitting	foreign	goods	(which	had	not	been	met	by	any	corresponding
liberality	on	the	other	side	of	the	water)	was,	that	all	the	gold	was	going	out	of
the	country.	He	had	himself	sent	two	millions	within	the	last	few	weeks;	the
funds	fell	rapidly,	and	no	advantage	is	gained	by	any	human	being.”	It	was	this
outflow	of	gold	which	lay	behind	the	sharp	monetary	contraction	of	1825.	Under
these	circumstances,	the	high	prices	which	had	been	reached	on	the	London
stock	exchange	during	the	1822-4	bubble	could	not	be	sustained.	In	April	1825
the	market	began	to	slide.	The	heaviest	falls	were	experienced	by	British
industrial	securities	and	Latin	American	bonds:	the	Brazilian	bonds	which
Nathan	had	issued	at	85	were	down	to	81.25	by	July	and	just	56	by	March	of	the

--- Page 192 ---
following	year.
22
	But	the	bonds	of	the	formerly	Spanish	republics	fared	even
worse:	Mexican,	Colombian	and	Peruvian	all	fell	below	20.	Even	the	best	paper
—British	3	per	cent	consols—was	affected,	falling	below	75	compared	with	a
peak	of	more	than	97	the	previous	year.	Such	a	severe	asset-price	deflation	was
bound	to	bring	a	banking	crisis	in	its	wake.
There	is	an	old	anecdote	which	describes	Nathan	threatening	to	exhaust	the
Bank	of	England’s	reserve	by	bringing	an	immense	number	of	small
denomination	notes	to	its	counter	and	demanding	gold.	This	is	another
Rothschild	myth	which	is	diametrically	opposed	to	the	truth.	In	fact,	Nathan’s
relations	with	the	Bank	of	England	were	close	and	mutually	beneficial.
Beginning	in	the	summer	of	1823,	when	he	borrowed	3	million	silver	dollars	to
finance	his	first	loan	to	Portugal,	he	set	out	to	establish	a	direct	line	of
communication	with	the	Governor	with	the	intention	of	circumventing	the
Bank’s	established	bullion	brokers	Mocatta	&	Goldsmid.	It	worked,	though	his
parallel	challenge	to	Mocatta	&	Goldsmid’s	position	as	the	East	India
Company’s	sole	bullion	brokers	and	his	later	efforts	to	deal	directly	with	the
Mint	were	thwarted.	Thereafter,	Nathan’s	dealings	with	the	Bank	were	regular,
as	he	later	told	the	1832	Committee	on	the	Bank	Charter	(with	characteristic
oversimplification):	“You	bring	in	your	bank	notes,	they	give	you	the	gold.”
Much	of	the	time,	Nathan	was	a	buyer	or	borrower	of	gold	and	silver.	In
December	1825,	however,	it	was	the	other	way	round:	the	Rothschilds	gave	the
Bank	their	gold,	supplying	the	“Old	Lady”	of	Threadneedle	Street	with	enough
specie	from	the	continent	to	avert	a	suspension	of	cash	payments.	James	had	in
fact	been	sending	substantial	quantities	of	gold	across	the	Channel	since	the
beginning	of	1825,	if	not	earlier.	In	the	first	week	of	January	alone,	he	had	sent
gold	worth	nearly	£500,000,	which	he	expected	to	“impress	your	Bank”
(meaning	the	Bank	of	England).	By	the	middle	of	the	month,	he	was	talking
about	“our	old	established	practice”	of	“buy[ing]	some	gold	whenever	we	can
find	any.”
It	was	at	the	end	of	the	year,	however,	that	his	assistance	mattered	most.	As	a
succession	of	banks	stopped	their	payments—six	failed	in	London	alone—the
Governor	of	the	Bank	informed	the	government	that	a	suspension	of	cash
payments	might	be	the	only	way	to	avert	a	general	financial	collapse,	as	he
would	be	unable	to	meet	the	demand	for	gold	likely	when	exchequer	bills	fell
due.	Liverpool	and	his	colleagues	were	determined	not	to	sanction	this,
suspecting	the	Governor	of	exaggerating	the	shortage	of	bullion	to	undo	the
work	of	the	1819	Committee.	On	the	other	hand,	the	Bank’s	reserve	of	
coined

--- Page 193 ---
gold	which	could	be	used	immediately	was	running	out	fast,	and	the	Cabinet	was
sufficiently	alarmed	at	the	prospect	of	an	unauthorised	suspension	by	the	Bank
that	“orders	had	been	given	to	the	regiment	of	Guards	to	remain	in	the	City	in
case	of	disturbance.”	Some	City	insiders—notably	Henry	Thornton,	who	was
battling	to	rescue	Williams	&	Co.—had	already	realised	that	“the	Jew	King	of
the	City,	Rothschild”	had	a	stock	of	gold	in	reserve,	and	according	to	one
account,	“by	dint	of	a	little	persuasion	and	exhortation	[by	Alexander	Baring]
the	Jew	was	induced	to	bring	out	his	gold,	first	charging	2½	per	cent
commission,	then	saying	he	did	it	out	of	public	spirit,	and	lastly	begging	that
they	would	never	tell	it	or	he	would	be	besieged	night	and	day.”
The	government,	however,	may	have	hesitated	to	approach	Nathan	because	of
his	well-known	antipathy	towards	Huskisson,	whose	policies,	as	we	have	seen,
he	held	responsible	for	the	crisis.	On	December	17	-	the	turning	point	of	the
crisis—the	wife	of	Charles	Arbuthnot,	the	Joint	Secretary	of	the	Treasury,
recorded	in	her	diary	“the	detestation	in	which	Mr	Huskisson	is	held	in	the	City”
as	well	as	their	“utmost	contempt”	for	the	Chancellor,	Robinson.	The	feeling	was
evidently	mutual.	According	to	her	informant,	Nathan’s	old	friend	Herries	(now
Financial	Secretary	to	the	Treasury),
Mr	Huskisson	has	done	all	he	can	also	to	ruin	Rothschild	by	spreading	reports
that	their	house	was	in	danger,	&	he	made	Mr	Canning	write	to	Paris	to	enquire
into	the	affairs	of	[Rothschild’s]	brother.	Ld.	Granville	sent	his	private	secretary
to	pump	Rothschild.	R	found	out	what	he	was	at	&	instantly	shewed	him	his
accounts	&	proved	to	him	that	he	was	worth	2½	millions.
Evidently,	this	led	to	a	change	of	heart	on	both	sides,	which	no	doubt	owed
something	to	Herries’s	mediation	and	Huskisson’s	absence:	“Rothschild	has
made	the	most	gigantic	efforts	to	assist	the	Bank	and	he	told	Mr	Herries	that,	if
he	had	been	applied	to	sooner,	he	wd.	have	prevented	all	the	difficulty.	As	it	is,	if
they	can	hold	out	till	Monday	or	Tuesday,	he	will	have	enormous	sums	over	in
sovereigns	from	Paris,	&	the	pressure	will	be	entirely	relieved.”
Nathan	had	done	two	things	that	evening:	firstly,	he	had	advised	the
government	to	intervene	in	the	money	market	itself	by	purchasing	exchequer
bills	to	inject	liquidity	into	the	market;	secondly,	and	more	important,	he	had
delivered	gold	to	the	
Bank,	beginning	with	£300,000	of	sovereigns,	and
continuing	with	larger	sums	in	the	succeeding	weeks	until	confidence	had	finally
been	restored.	In	fact,	the	reserve	touched	its	lowest	level	(just	over	a	million
pounds)	on	December	24;	however,	Nathan	was	still	delivering	gold	a	year	later,

--- Page 194 ---
pledging	a	million	pounds	in	the	course	of	March	1826	and	a	total	of	£10	million
by	September.	His	principal	source	was	James	in	Paris	(as	he	later	reminded
Nathan,	“I	emptied	my	coffers	for	your	gold”).	But,	as	Nathan	recalled,	“there
was	a	good	deal	[of	gold]	supplied	from	the	whole	world;	I	imported	it,	and	it
was	imported	almost	from	every	country;	we	got	it	from	Russia,	from	Turkey,
from	Austria,	from	almost	every	quarter	in	the	world.”	The	Bank’s	ledgers
describe	the	influx	of	myriad	kinds	of	gold	coin	from	France,	Italy,	Holland	and
Germany.
The	crisis	of	1825	had	come	close	to	being	another	1797	(the	year	when	the
Bank	had	last	suspended	cash	payments),	a	monetary	crisis	with	the	potential	to
destabilise	the	British	economy	as	a	whole.	As	it	was,	73	out	of	770	country
banks	failed	and,	as	Huskisson	himself	admitted,	the	country	came	within	forty-
eight	hours	of	“putting	stop	to	all	dealings	between	man	and	man	except	by
barter.”	Looking	back	in	1839,	Wellington	had	no	doubt	who	had	averted
disaster:	“Had	it	not	been	for	the	most	extraordinary	exertions—above	all	on	the
part	of	old	Rothschild—the	Bank	must	have	stopped	payment.”	Of	course,
Nathan	would	not	have	made	such	immense	deliveries	of	gold	without	asking	for
a	generous	commission	in	return.	The	operation	has	to	be	seen	as	part	of	his
campaign	to	establish	himself	as	the	dominant	force	in	the	London	bullion
market.	On	the	other	hand,	there	is	no	reason	why	he	should	have	bailed	out	the
Bank	and	the	government	free	of	charge,	when	the	crisis	was	so	manifestly	the
product	of	policies	he	had	advised	against.	The	rescue	of	the	Bank	was	a
remarkable	achievement	which	owed	everything	to	the	international	nature	of
the	Rothschilds’	operations.	In	effect,	the	brothers	were	establishing	that	system
of	international	monetary	co-operation	which	would	later	be	performed	routinely
by	central	banks,	and	on	which	the	gold	standard	came	to	depend.	Increasingly,
their	position	in	the	international	bullion	market	was	becoming	as	dominant	as
their	position	in	the	international	bond	market.
Byron	was	therefore	not	far	wide	of	the	mark	when	he	suggested	in	
Don	Juan
that	Baring	and	Rothschild	reigned	over	both	royalists	and	liberals,	and	that	their
loans	could	“seat	a	nation	or	upset	a	throne.”	He	erred	only	in	regarding	the	two
bankers	as	financial	equals.	In	1815	they	had	been.	By	1825	they	were	not.	As
early	as	August	1820	the	Bremen	delegate	to	the	German	Confederation’s	Diet
in	Frankfurt	had	a	conversation	with	his	Austrian	counterpart	Count	Buol	which
acutely	identified	the	unrivalled	extent	of	the	Rothschilds’	political	influence	in
Europe:
This	house	has,	through	its	enormous	financial	transactions	and	its	banking	and

--- Page 195 ---
credit	connections,	actually	achieved	the	position	of	a	real	Power;	it	has	to	such
an	extent	acquired	control	of	the	general	money	market	that	it	is	in	a	position
either	to	hinder	or	to	promote,	as	it	feels	inclined,	the	movements	and	operations
of	potentates,	and	even	of	the	greatest	European	Powers.	Austria	needs	the
Rothschilds’	help	for	her	present	demonstration	against	Naples,	and	Prussia
would	long	ago	have	been	finished	with	her	constitution	if	the	House	of
Rothschild	had	not	made	it	possible	for	her	to	postpone	the	evil	day.
The	Frankfurt	banker	Simon	Moritz	von	Bethmann	echoed	this	judgement	in	a
letter	written	at	around	the	same	time:
N.	M.	Rothschild,	who	is	equipped	with	a	vulgar	talent,	audacity	and	vanity,
constitutes	the	centrifugal	point	around	which	the	stock	exchange	revolves.	He
alone	determines	the	exchange,	buying	and	selling	£100,000	each	day	.	.	.	I	can
well	understand	why	the	Rothschilds	are	such	useful	instruments	for	the
[Austrian]	government.
Both	men	had	their	reasons	for	disliking	this	phenomenon,	as	we	shall	see;	but
they	did	not	exaggerate	it.

--- Page 196 ---
FIVE
“Hue	and	Cry”	(1826-1829)
Seyd	Umschlungen	Millionen.
—CAPTION	TO	A	GERMAN	CARICATURE	OF	NATHAN	ROTHSCHILD
	
	
	
	
It	is	not	wholly	surprising,	in	view	of	the	decisive	role	they	played	in	so	many
post	war	financial	transactions,	that	the	Rothschilds	first	became	famous	in	the
1820s.	Even	as	early	as	1816	Carl	was	conscious	that	he	and	his	brothers	were
becoming	“very	famous”	in	their	home	town.	As	he	told	James,	“these	days	a	lot
is	written	about	us	in	consequence	of	the	freedom	of	the	Press.”	He	encountered
similar	publicity	when	he	visited	Berlin	later	the	same	year.	Carl	evidently	felt
uneasy	about	such	celebrity,	not	least	because	of	the	inaccuracy	of	much	that
was	written.	“We	are	every	day	in	the	news,”	he	complained	to	Amschel.	“Last
week	you	were	mentioned	in	the	papers	in	connection	with	the	poor	.	.	.	Today
you	are	mentioned	in	connection	with	grain,	and	that	you	are	going	to	become
[the	Elector	of	Hesse-Kassel’s]	Minister	at	the	Diet	of	the	Confederation.”	It	was
the	same	in	Hamburg:
Whenever	any	one	of	us	arrives	gossip	and	marvellous	stories	are	spread	by
people.	Lawätz	told	me	that	at	some	party	in	town	the	story	was	told	that	the
King	of	Prussia	wrote	to	us	asking	to	arrange	a	bond	issue	of	three	millions.	We
are	supposed	to	have	replied	that	this	was	not	necessary,	because	we	were	able	to
advance	this	sum	from	our	own	money.
Amschel	too	was	struck	by	the	public	propensity	to	exaggerate:	“People	think
that	we	are	ten	times	as	rich	as	we	really	are.”	“Wherever	we	go	now,”	Carl

--- Page 197 ---
found,	“people	think	it	is	a	political	trip.”	The	arrival	of	James	at	the	St
Petersburg	stock	exchange,	or	of	a	ship	chartered	by	Nathan	in	port,	was	enough
to	bring	business	to	a	standstill.	James	had	only	to	buy	a	certain	security	in	Paris
for	“everybody”	to	buy	it.	Unlike	Carl,	the	youngest	brother	relished	this	new-
found	fame.	As	he	told	Nathan,	“It	is	indeed	nice	to	possess	so	much	prestige.”
“They	all	say:	‘Il	n’a	jamais	existé	à	Paris	une	maison	aussi	fameuse	que	la
nôtre.’	.	.	.	We	are	now	regarded	as	
the
	
first	.	.	.	I	sent	last	week	[bills	for]	three
millions	to	the	Banque	de	France.	There	was	a	lot	of	rubbish	among	them—yet
not	a	single	one	was	returned.”
1
	Salomon	and	Nathan	too	could	make	light	of
publicity.	“We	are	not	going	to	cry	about	the	fact	
that	you	have	been
caricatured,”	he	told	Nathan.	“As	you	say,	so	are	kings	and	emperors	.	.	.	May
God	grant	that	this	is	the	worst	thing	that	ever	happens	to	us	.	.	.	May	my
Anselm	and	your	Lionel	also	be	caricatured,	please	God,	as	soon	as	they	become
well	known	in	this	world.	I	wish	this	for	our	darling	children	.	.	.	[Idle]	dreams!”
Nathan’s	attitude	was	typically	robust:	“
Gagesh
	[nobody]	is	not	being	written
about.”	Press	interest—including	unsubstantiated	claims	that	they	were	in
financial	difficulties—was	merely	the	price	of	success.
	
Public	Relations
As	the	brothers’	comments	suggest,	little	of	this	publicity	was	good	publicity.
From	the	very	earliest	years	of	their	fame,	the	Rothschilds	were	subjected	to
markedly	more	vilification	than	glorification	in	the	public	sphere.	Of	course,
most	monarchs,	politicians	and	other	public	figures	in	the	early	nineteenth
century	occasionally	found	themselves	held	up	to	ridicule	in	newspapers,
pamphlets	and	other	media,	especially	in	those	parts	of	Europe	where	censorship
was	lax.	But	the	Rothschilds	often	seemed	to	attract	a	specially	intense	form	of
criticism.	One	reason	for	this	was	their	religion.	To	those	who	regretted	the	steps
taken	towards	religious	equality	in	the	Revolutionary	period,	the	fact	that	the
most	economically	successful	family	of	the	Restoration	era	was	Jewish	was	an
inexhaustible	source	of	irritation.	However,	other	factors	undoubtedly	played	a
part,	and	it	would	be	a	mistake	to	equate	anti-Semitism	with	anti-Rothschildism.
A	good	deal	of	the	hostility	which	the	brothers	encountered	after	1815	can	be
attributed	to	plain	economic	rivalry.	The	other	Frankfurt	bankers,	for	example,
would	have	been	envious	of	the	meteoric	rise	of	the	Rothschilds	even	if	they	had
not	been	Jews.	Moreover,	some	of	the	Rothschilds’	most	determined	opponents
were	other	Jews—as	in	Kassel.	Additionally,	anti-Rothschildism	had	a	political
dimension:	their	identification	with	conservative	regimes	and	the	policy	of	the

--- Page 198 ---
Holy	Alliance	made	them	targets	for	liberal	criticism.	The	bad	publicity	of	the
Restoration	era	was	therefore	often	a	synthesis	of	economic	envy	and	religious
antipathy,	with	an	admixture	of	political	radicalism.
In	Frankfurt,	for	example,	the	Rothschilds’	emergence	as	a	financial	great
power	threatened	to	eclipse	the	Bethmanns,	hitherto	the	town’s	pre-eminent
bankers.	Simon	Moritz,	the	dominant	partner	in	this	period,	viewed	his	own
relative	decline	with	remarkable	and	indeed	admirable	equanimity;	of	all	their
many	rivals,	he	yielded	with	the	best	grace.	As	early	as	September	1815	he
actively	sought	to	work	in	partnership	with	Salomon	and	James,	observing	in	a
letter	from	Paris	to	his	own	house	in	Frankfurt,	“The	more	contact	I	have	with
the	two	Rothschilds	here,	the	more	confidence	they	give	me.”	Although	he	did
not	pretend	to	like	Nathan’s	“audacity	and	vanity,”	he	insisted	that	he	was	“far
from	wanting	to	criticise	or	envy”	the	Rothschilds,	and	described	Salomon	as	“a
very	estimable	man	of	character,	to	whom	I	am	sincerely	well	disposed.”	He
even	referred	to	Nathan	as	“our	fellow	countryman.”	“The	five	Rothschild
brothers	are	a	remarkable	phenomenon	of	our	time,”	he	wrote	in	February	1822.
“What	they	lack	in	genius	they	make	up	for	with	relentless	activity,	an	enviable
unity	and	mutual	consideration.”	However,	such	remarks	were	partly	informed
by	Bethmann’s	awareness	that	the	best	place	to	be	in	the	1820s	was	on	the
Rothschilds’	coat-tails.	His	mood	changed	markedly	when	he	found	himself	left
out	of	the	1821	Neapolitan	loan,	in	which	he	believed	Carl	had	promised	him	a
share.	“I	do	not	think	it	fair,”	he	wrote	angrily,	“that	I	should	
commit	myself	to
you	for	a	period	of	months,	while	you	find	it	suits	you	to	retain	the	option
whether	you	will	keep	your	offer	open	or	withdraw	it.”
Such	complaints	about	the	Rothschilds’	ruthless	methods	were	nothing	new:	it
had	been	the	perennial	complaint	of	the	Gentile	business	community	in
Frankfurt	that	the	Jews’	business	methods	were	“unfair.”	Early	German
caricatures	of	the	Rothschilds	emphasise	this	point:	in	I.	Nussgeig’s
Musterreiter
,	Carl	is	portrayed	as	“Blauschild,”	a	travelling	pedlar	heading	south
to	Italy	with	his	bedraggled	pony	bearing	all	kinds	of	wares,	including	muskets
and	swords.
2
	A	later	caricature	contrasts	the	elegant	figure	of	Bethmann,	riding
his	coach-and-four	in	fashionable	apparel,	with	a	scruffy	and	grotesquely	ugly
Amschel,	standing	atop	a	large	cash	box	which	a	two-headed	eagle	struggles
vainly	to	pull	forward.
3
As	in	the	past,	such	business	rivalry	also	had	a	political	dimension.	The	fact
that	the	Rothschilds	were	now	“richer	than	Bethmann”	was	widely	seen	as
evidence	of	the	need	to	restore	the	traditional	legal	restrictions	on	the	Jewish

--- Page 199 ---
minority.	In	Amschel’s	words,	it	“irked	the	Gentiles	that	a	Jew	should	set	the
tone.”	Hostility	was	growing	daily,	he	reported	in	September	1815:	“They
begrudge	us	Jews	the	eyes	in	our	heads	.	.	.	[and	want]	to	drink	our	blood.”
Matters	were	not	helped	by	the	fact	that	other	Jews	were	inclined	to	boast	about
the	Rothschilds’	wealth	as	a	matter	of	communal	pride,	something	which
Amschel	and	Carl	felt	only	fuelled	Gentile	resentment.	This	resentment
generated	a	spate	of	anti-Jewish	pamphlets	and	plays	in	the	post-war	years—the
best-known	was	
Unser	Verkehr
,	about	a	cowardly	Jewish	soldier—and	finally
boiled	over	in	the	so-called	“Hep”	riots	of	August	1819,	when	a	noisy	crowd
rampaged	through	the	Judengasse,	chanting	the	traditional	anti-Jewish	slogan
“Hep-Hep!	Jude	verreck!”	and	vandalising	houses.	A	good	deal	of	this	hostility
was	specifically	targeted	at	the	Rothschild	family.	In	1817	noisy	crowds	had
gathered	outside	Amschel’s	newly	acquired	garden,	itself	a	symbol	of	Jewish
social	mobility,	to	mock	his	even	more	recent	ennoblement,	“chanting	‘Baron
Amschel’	and	all	sorts	of	stupidities.”	Caricatures	were	pinned	to	his	door	and
the	Rothschilds’	office	windows	were	among	those	broken	during	the	“Hep”
riots.
4
	At	around	the	same	time,	Amschel	received	death	threats.
Such	demonstrations—which	prompted	Amschel	to	contemplate	leaving
Frankfurt	altogether—do	much	to	explain	the	Rothschilds’	ambivalence	about
popular	political	participation.	When	Metternich	expressed	his	disapproval	of	the
riots	(a	disapproval	which,	of	course,	extended	to	all	“outbreaks	of	the	vulgar
masses”)	he	did	much	to	reinforce	the	Rothschilds’	sense	that	conservatism
might	offer	them	more	personal	security	than	the	more	radical	forms	of
liberalism.	This	was	especially	true	in	Germany,	where	traditionally	the
Habsburg	Emperor	had	given	the	Jews	“protection”	from	the	local	populace	and
where	the	proto-liberal	associations	of	the	Restoration	era	espoused	a
nationalism	which	was	occasionally	anti-Jewish	in	its	rhetoric.	At	the	same	time,
the	closer	the	Rothschilds	drew	to	the	established	order,	the	easier	it	was	for	its
critics	to	identify	them	with	it.	When	marriage	between	Jews	and	Gentiles	was
legalised	in	Frankfurt—one	of	a	number	of	minor	concessions	wrung	from	the
Frankfurt	Senate	in	the	1820s—the	eighty-year-old	Goethe	was	moved	to
comment:
This	scandalous	law	will	undermine	all	family	sense	of	morality,	intimately
associated	with	religion	as	it	is.	When	this	is	passed,	how	can	a	
Jewess	be
prevented	from	becoming	Principal	Lady	of	the	Bed	Chamber?	Who	knows
whether	or	not	bribery	has	played	a	role	in	all	this;	who	knows	whether	or	not

--- Page 200 ---
the	the	all-powerful	Rothschilds	are	behind	it?
If	so	august	and	enlightened	a	figure	could	express	such	a	view,	it	is	no	wonder
the	Rothschilds	were	content	to	see	popular	participation	in	German	political	life
kept	to	a	minimum.
Anti-Rothschildism	was	not	confined	to	Frankfurt.	Wherever	the	Rothschilds
secured	a	large	proportion	of	government	business,	local	rivals	often	reacted
with	religiously-tinged	attacks.	In	Vienna,	for	example,	the	1820	lottery	loan
which	Salomon	arranged	in	tandem	with	David	Parish	was	widely	criticised	as
“a	shameful	Jewish	ramp”	because	of	the	substantial	profits	the	bankers	stood	to
make.	Sometimes,	it	should	be	stressed,	such	attacks	had	no	religious	dimension.
Six	years	later	it	was	Parish	himself	who	directed	one	of	the	most	vitriolic	blasts
against	the	Rothschilds	of	the	entire	period.	Parish	had	gradually	been	surpassed
by	his	erstwhile	partner:	by	1823	he	was	the	junior	partner	(if	not	the	messenger
boy)	in	Nathan’s	loan	to	Portugal,	and	his	eclipse	was	completed	by	the	1825-6
crisis,	which	claimed	Parish’s	Viennese	bank	Fries	&	Co.	as	one	of	its	victims.
On	the	eve	of	drowning	himself	in	the	Danube,	Parish	wrote	four	letters—to	his
brother	John,	to	the	banker	Geymüller,	to	Metternich	and	to	Salomon	himself—
all	blaming	his	downfall	on	the	Rothschilds	and	pledging	to	discredit	them
publicly.	Metternich,	said	Parish,	had	“sacrificed	me	to	the	cupidity	of	a	family
who,	for	all	their	riches,	are	heartless	men	who	only	care	about	their	cash	box.”
He	had	been	“deceived”	by	Salomon	“in	the	most	shameful	way	and	rewarded
for	very	considerable	service	with	the	blackest	ingratitude.”	The	strong
implication	was	that	the	Rothschilds	had	secured	Metternich’s	“protection”	and
left	Parish	out	in	the	cold	by	underhand	means.	Parish’s	letters	show	that	it	was
perfectly	possible	to	be	anti-Rothschild	without	being	anti-Jewish.	Yet	few
German	journalists	could	resist	alluding	to	the	family’s	religion	when	reporting
such	stories.	A	good	example	is	Friedrich	List’s	newspaper	report	of	a	minor
case	of	embezzlement	by	a	clerk	at	the	Paris	house	in	1826,	which	referred	quite
gratuitously	to	“Rothschild,	the	pride	of	Israel,	the	mighty	lender	and	master	of
all	the	coined	and	uncoined	silver	and	gold	in	the	Old	World,	before	whose
money	box	Kings	and	Emperors	humbly	bow	.	.	.”
The	brothers	encountered	similar	kinds	of	hostility	in	Paris	as	well.	“It’s
always	a	case	of	‘The	Jew	has	done	too	well,	has	done	this,	has	done	that,’	”
Salomon	reported	to	Nathan	in	October	1815.	These	were	the	complaints	of
business	rivals,	who	battled	to	elbow	the	Rothschilds	aside	in	the	scramble	for
post-war	pickings	in	the	French	capital.	Ten	years	later,	by	contrast,	James	found
himself	the	target	of	a	primarily	political	critique.	The	liberal	Fournier-Verneuil’s

--- Page 201 ---
Paris
,	published	in	1826,	contains	the	first	of	many	French	claims	that	the
government—in	this	case	Villèle’s—was	the	corrupt	puppet	of	“the	aristocracy
of	finance,	the	most	unfeeling	and	ignoble	of	all	aristocracies”	at	whose	head
stood	none	other	than	“M.	le	baron	R.”	Fournier	quoted	Chateaubriand	(an
unlikely	ally	for	a	liberal):	“How	hard	it	would	be	if	Providence	had	shaken	the
world,	thrust	the	heir	of	so	many	kings	under	the	[guillotine’s]	blade,	led	our
armies	from	Cadiz	to	Moscow	[and]	chained	Bonaparte	on	a	rock,	simply	in
order	that	MM.	Villèle,	Rodchild	[
sic
]	and	company	can	make	
money	with	the
debris	of	our	glory	and	our	liberties.”	Even	this	struck	Fournier	as	understating
the	problem,	however:
The	Jew	R.	and	his	co-religionists	.	.	.	see	in	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	no
more	than	.	.	.	money	devoted	to	usury	.	.	.	It	is	a	singular	race	of	men;	I	am	not
intolerant,	but	Napoleon,	in	calling	together	the	grand	Sanhedrin	[Jewish
assembly]	did	not	create	a	[new]	Frenchman.	They	.	.	.	are	still	Jews,	and	nothing
but	Jews.	I	do	not	hold	it	against	them	that	they	retain	their	faith;	but	I	reproach
them	for	profiting	from	all	quarrels,	for	charging	them	up;	they	are	everywhere.
They	were	in	Poland	on	the	corpses	of	our	brothers;	they	are	[currently]
supplying	Ibraham	[Pasha],	and	they	are	dancing	at	this	very	moment	on	the
tomb	of	Achilles.
The	references	to	the	Ottoman	oppression	of	the	Greeks	make	the	author’s
liberal	sentiments	obvious.	Equally	evident,	however,	is	an	anti-Jewish	rhetoric
which	would	only	later	come	to	be	located	on	the	political	right.	Fournier’s	was
in	many	ways	an	embryonic	version	of	that	elaborate	conspiracy	theory	which
was	to	evolve	and	expand	for	years	to	come	in	France,	and	which	almost
invariably	ascribed	a	central	and	malign	political	influence	to	the	Rothschilds.
In	London	too—where	anti-Jewish	feeling	is	often	assumed	to	have	been	less
prevalent—the	1820s	saw	a	spate	of	more	or	less	hostile	public	allusions	to
Rothschild	power.	Indeed,	the	volume	of	such	allusions	was	probably	greater	in
London	than	anywhere	else—a	reflection	partly	of	Nathan’s	relatively	greater
importance,	but	also	of	the	freedom	of	the	press.	Again,	hostility	often	had	its
roots	in	business	rivalry.	If	the	rivals	were	both	Jews—as	when	Mocatta	&
Goldsmid	denounced	“the	overwhelming	attempt	of	Mr	Rothschild	to	benefit
himself	at	the	expense	of	any	person	or	establishment”—this	could	be
acrimonious	without	having	a	religious	dimension.	But	when	Alexander	Baring
referred	to	his	principal	rival,	it	was	often	(disdainfully)	as	“the	Jew.”	According
to	Laffitte,	it	was	explicitly	on	religious	grounds	that	Baring	sought	to	exclude

--- Page 202 ---
the	Rothschilds	from	the	French	reparations	loan	in	1817.	Although	James
tended	to	think	this	was	merely	a	pretext,	he	acknowledged	that	a	measure	of
prejudice	was	at	work:
In	Frankfurt	one	got	used	to	[it]	so	one	is	not	astonished	[there],	but	here	the
case	is	the	contrary	and	if	something	of	this	kind	happens	here,	one	is	more
amazed	.	.	.	Yesterday	Laffitte	asked	me	to	come	and	see	him.	Baring	came	to
see	him	and	gave	clear	explanations	that	he	could	not	possibly	make	[the	loan]
with	us.	True,	he	himself	was	not	of	the	same	opinion	[but]	his	associés	and	the
English	.	.	.	are	prejudiced	against	the	Jews.	If	he	were	to	take	us	in	partnership,
the	operation	would	be	spoiled.	He	is	unable	to	do	such	a	business	with	a	Jew	.	.
.	It	all	originates	in	Labouchère’s	pride	and	in	Sillem’s	envy;	as	these	two	
are
Hope	[&	Co.],	they	think	that	their	honour	would	suffer	if	they	had	to	get	in	line
with	a	Frankfurt	Jew	and	that	we	would	become	great	by	that	fact	.	.	.	Baring
told	him:	“These	gentlemen	are	working	like	Jews.	How	could	we	co-operate?
Their	principles	are	different.	They	are	working	on	twenty	transactions	at	the
same	time	.	.	.	with	the	only	aim	to	do	business.	It	is	like	stock-jobbing.	Take	for
example	the	Prussian	business.	They	cut	off	Prussia’s	credit	.	.	.	then	this	printing
[of	circulars]	before	
anything	is	known.”	.	.	.	He	added	that	we	are	right	in	what
we	did	because	we	succeeded	and	made	money.	However,	he	does	not	want—so
he	said—to	do	business	in	this	manner.	Now	we	try—so	he	said—to	bring	down
the	English	stocks	after	having	sold	ours,	in	order	to	buy	them	back.
It	was	the	Rothschilds’	(very	successful)	methods,	in	other	words,	which	Baring
found	objectionable;	but	he	instinctively	thought	of	these	as	“Jewish”	in
character.	Such	attitudes	were	widespread.	
Devotion	in	Dukes	Place
,	one	of	the
earliest	English	caricatures	thought	to	be	of	Nathan,	shows	him	at	the	front	of	a
Jewish	congregation	in	the	Great	Synagogue	“returning	thanks	for	a	loan.”	(see
illustration	5.i).
As	elsewhere,	however,	there	was	also	a	political	dimension	to	anti-
Rothschildism.	The	Rothschilds,	as	we	have	seen,	often	worried	in	the	post-war
years	about	the	extent	of	Baring’s	political	influence	in	London	and	Paris,	seeing
this	as	the	key	to	his	dominance	of	the	post-war	reparations	business.	To	less
influential	businessmen,	however,	it	was	the	Rothschilds	who	seemed	to	have
the	political	power.	As	early	as	1818	an	anonymous	member	of	the	stock
exchange	wrote	to	Lord	Liverpool,	attacking	Nathan	for	his	opposition	to	the
resumption	of	cash	payments:
Let	me	inform	you,	the	Capitalists	of	Money	Market	.	.	.	have	set	their	faces

--- Page 203 ---
against	your	Plan	because	it	serves	not	their	purpose	or	puts	Money	in	their
Pockets.	The	Jew	interest	alias	Mr	Rothschild	are	.	.	.	straining	every	nerve	to
defeat	your	objects	.	.	.	If	a	Man	asks	Mr	Roth-schild,	what	is	his	opinion	of	the
Funds,	he	answers	they	must	be	better	and	at	the	very	same	time	he	acts
contrary[;]	[that]	in	so	great	a	country	as	this,	Your	Lordship	and	Colleagues
should	be	the	Sport	[&]	the	caprice	of	a	Jew	Party	.	.	.	is	truly	lamentable.
5.1:
	
Devotion	in	Dukes	Place—or	Contractors	returning	thanks	for	a	Loan
(1818).
A	cartoon	of	1824	made	a	similar	allusion	to	Nathan’s	role	in	the	debate	about
resumption,	portraying	Nathan	rising	above	the	stock	exchange	in	a	balloon.
Although	the	balloon	is	held	aloft	by	a	bull	and	a	bear	and	carries	the	inscription
“Everything	must	rise,”	it	is	held	down	by	ballast	labelled	“Cash	Bags.”	Here
too	there	is	a	religious	allusion.	Indeed,	the	most	striking	feature	of	this	cartoon
is	the	ambiguous	way	it	portrays	Nathan’s	relationship	to	a	group	of	poorer	Jews.
Nathan	holds	two	flags,	bearing	the	mottoes	“Those	who	give	to	the	poor	lend	to
the	Lord”	and	“Charity	covers	a	multitude	of	sins”;	but	he	says:	“I	am	going	to
receive	my	Dividends,”	and	a	figure	on	the	left,	emerging	from	Capel	Court	with
a	copy	of	
The	Times
,	exclaims:	“We	stop	the	press	to	announce	that	one	of	the
greatest	capitalists	in	the	City	has	gone	on	a	secret	
Financial	Expedition
.”	The

--- Page 204 ---
six	poor	Jews	on	the	right—labelled	“The	Old	Stock	reduced”—are	left	to	direct
their	lamentations	to	King,	the	guard	of	the	Royal	Mail	coach,	who	is	carrying	a
Way-bill	bearing	eight	Jewish	names,	each	of	which	has	been	allotted	a	shilling.
If	these	critics	portrayed	Nathan	as	an	interloper	within	the	City,	it	was
nevertheless	also	plausible	to	portray	him	as	the	personification	of	the	City	as	a
whole:	as	the	leader	of	the	“Change-Alley	People,”	of	“Muckworm,”	the	gang	of
financiers	and	stockjobbers	whom	the	Tory	radical	William	Cobbett	blamed	for
the	post-war	policy	of	deflation.	A	graphic	example	of	this	sort	of	critique	is
another	1824	cartoon,	
A	New	Court	Fire	Screen
,	which	portrays	the	Rothschild-
founded	Alliance	Assurance	Company	as	a	racket	for	defrauding	country
gentlemen.	At	the	same	time,	this	print	also	attacks	Nathan’s	connections	with
the	Holy	Alliance.	The	company’s	building	has	an	inscription	which	reads
“Hollow	Alliance	Fire	and	Life	Preserving	Office”	and	is	surmounted	by	five
royal	busts	marked	“Russia,”	“Prussia,”	“Naples,”	“France”	and	“Austria.”	At
the	very	top	of	the	print	is	a	longer	inscription	which	alludes	to	the	Rothschilds’
counter-revolutionary	role:
Persons	insured	in	this	Office	will	be	supplied	gratis	with	a	Box	of	veritable
German	Paste	which	if	applied	according	to	the	directions	of	Prince	H	[or	M?]	&
Co.	will	prevent	fire.	NB	Should	any	Person	obtain	fraudulently	a	Box	of	the
above	miraculous	Paste	without	being	insured	in	this	Office	it	will	have	the
contrary	effect	and	consume	the	House	on	the	first	appearance	of	the	New
Moon.
Although	the	emphasis	here	is	on	the	Rothschilds’	foreignness—Nathan	and
Moses	Montefiore	are	pictured	speaking	French	to	one	another,	and	there	is	a
German	porter	with	a	thick	accent—there	is	no	mistaking	the	Jewishness	of	the
three	brokers	in	the	foreground,	congratulating	one	another	on	their	profits.
It	was,	however,	a	complex	crisis	at	the	highest	level	of	British	politics	which
did	most	to	bring	Nathan	into	the	British	public	eye.	In	the	wake	of	Lord
Liverpool’s	illness	in	February	1827,	a	ministry	had	been	formed	by	Canning
which	united	Liberal	Tories,	notably	Huskisson,	with	Whigs	like	Lansdowne,	but
excluded	Ultra-Tories	led	by	the	Duke	of	Wellington,	who	shared	Nathan’s
distaste	for	Huskisson’s	liberal	economic	policies.	When	Canning	unexpectedly
died	in	August	
of	the	same	year,	the	King	commissioned	the	Chancellor	of	the
Exchequer,	Robinson	(now	Lord	Goderich),	to	form	a	new	Cabinet.	But	the
King’s	insistence	that	Herries	be	appointed	Chancellor	(as	well	as	his	refusal	to
have	the	Whig	Lord	Holland	as	Foreign	Secretary)	meant	that	Goderich’s	term	in

--- Page 205 ---
office	was	exceedingly	brief.	At	the	Whig	leader	George	Tierney’s	instigation,
Goderich	and	Huskisson	appointed	Lord	Althorp	as	chairman	of	a	finance
committee	without	consulting	Herries,	prompting	the	latter	to	threaten
resignation	unless	Althorp’s	appointment	was	rescinded,	and	Huskisson	to
threaten	resignation	if	it	was.	In	the	event,	Goderich	himself	resigned	in	January
1828	and	the	King	turned	to	Wellington	to	form	a	government—though	the
conflict	between	Huskisson	and	Herries	was	resolved	only	when	Wellington
agreed	to	replace	him	as	Chancellor	with	Goulborn,	demoting	Herries	to	the
office	of	Master	of	the	Mint.
The	significance	of	the	whole	tangled	affair	lay	in	the	identification	of	Herries
with	the	King	and	his	increasingly	influential	physician	and	private	secretary	Sir
William	Knighton;	with	the	opposition	within	the	Tory	party	to	Catholic
emancipation;	and,	perhaps	decisively,	with	the	financial	interests—principally
those	of	New	Court—which	were	hostile	to	Huskisson.	As	early	as	August	1827
the	Ultra-Tory	
Morning	Chronicle
	was	suggesting	that	Herries’s	close
connections	with	Nathan	disqualified	him	from	serving	as	Chancellor.	In	the
debate	which	followed	Herries’s	demotion	in	February	1828,	this	charge	was
repeated	by	the	Whig	MP	for	Hertford,	Thomas	Duncombe,	who	called	for	the
“mystery	.	.	.	about	the	late	change”	to	be	“cleared	up,	by	the	rising	of	the	curtain
which	concealed	persons	of	great	consequence,	incorporeal	as	well	as
corporeal”:
There	is	.	.	.	deny	it	who	can,	a	secret	influence	behind	the	throne,	whose	form	is
never	seen,	whose	name	is	never	breathed,	who	has	access	to	all	the	secrets	of
State,	and	who	manages	all	the	sudden	springs	of	ministerial	arrangement	.	.	.
Closely	connected	with	this	invisible,	this	incorporeal	person,	stands	a	more
solid	and	substantial	form,	a	new,	and	formidable	power,	till	these	days	unknown
in	Europe;	master	of	unbounded	wealth,	he	boasts	that	he	is	the	arbiter	of	peace
and	war,	and	that	the	credit	of	nations	depends	upon	his	nod;	his	correspondents
are	innumerable;	his	couriers	outrun	those	of	sovereign	princes,	and	absolute
sovereigns;	ministers	of	state	are	in	his	pay.	Paramount	in	the	cabinets	of
continental	Europe,	he	aspires	to	the	domination	of	our	own;	even	the	great	Don
Miguel	himself	[see	below],	of	whom	we	have	lately	heard	and	seen	so	much,
was	obliged	to	have	recourse	to	this	individual,	before	he	could	take	possession
of	the	throne.	Sir,	that	such	secret	influences	do	exist	is	a	matter	of	notoriety;
they	are	known	to	have	been	but	too	busy	in	the	underplot	of	the	recent
[ministerial]	revolution.	I	believe	their	object	to	be	as	impure	as	the	means	by
which	their	power	has	been	acquired,	and	denounce	them	and	their	agents	as

--- Page 206 ---
unknown	to	the	British	consitution,	and	derogatory	to	the	honour	of	the	Crown.
Duncombe	“trusted	that	the	duke	of	Wellington	and	the	right	hon.	Secretary	for
the	Home	Department	[Peel],	would	not	allow	the	finances	of	this	great	country
to	be	controlled	any	longer	by	a	Jew,	or	the	distribution	of	the	patronage	of	the
Crown	to	be	operated	on	by	the	prescriptions	of	a	physician	[a	laugh].”
Responding	for	the	government,	Peel	shrugged	the	attack	off,	denying
knowledge	of	“the	mysterious,	incorporeal,	and	incomprehensible,	being	of
which	he	had	spoken”	and	denying	“that	the	other	more	substantial	personage
had	interfered,	in	the	way	stated	by	the	hon.	gentleman,	with	the	financial	affairs
of	the	country.”	But	Duncombe’s	speech	was	widely	followed	up.	On	February
25	a	letter	appeared	in	
The	Times
	signed	“Algernon,”	which	declared
indignantly:	“We	cannot	suffer	the	destinies	of	a	mighty	Empire	to	be	wielded	by
the	unclean	hands	of	a	Jew	and	a	man-midwife.”	Writing	under	the	pseudonym
“Malcolm	Macgregor,	jun.,”	the	young	Thomas	Babington	Macaulay	contributed
some	satirical	verses	about	the	“mysterious	two,	/	Lords	of	our	fate,	the	Doctor
and	the	Jew.”
5
	A	number	of	satirical	cartoons	were	also	published	on	the	subject,
at	least	two	of	which	were	inspired	by	Thomas	Dibdin’s	1800	play	
The	Jew	and
the	Doctor
.	In	the	first	to	appear	(see	illustration	5.ii),	Nathan	is	pictured	as	a
pot-bellied	angel,	descending	from	the	clouds	with	bags	of	gold	towards	the
“Ex-Clerk,	Ex-Commissary,	Ex-Auditor,	Ex-Secretary,	Ex-Chancellor”	Herries.
“Si	help	me	Cot!”	he	declares	in	what	is	supposed	to	be	a	thick	German-Jewish
accent,	“de	
Sinking	Job
	will	go	to	de	Bottom	of	de	melting	pot	if	you	don’t	stick
out	Herry!	You	bote	know	dat	
I
	and	only	
I
	am	de	Incorporial—never	mind.	I
gave	de	Don	Miggel	and	all	de	oder	Dons	de	monish!	plesh	my	hearts!”	A
second	cartoon	by	Robert	Cruikshank	(see	illustration	5.iii)	shows	Nathan—
bearded,	in	a	broad-brimmed	hat	and	with	a	sack	marked	“Old	Rags”	over	his
shoulder—approaching	Wellington	with	the	words:	“By	Cot	dat	Doctor	is	von
tam	Jew—he	want	my	perquist—you	know	fat	I	do	for	you—you	give	me	de
monish	for	dat	fiddle—blesh	moine	heats!!!—.”

--- Page 207 ---
5.ii:	George	or	Robert	Cruikshank,
	
The	JEW	and	the	DOCTOR,	or	SECRET
INFLUENCE	BEHIND	THE	CURTAIN!!	(Vide	Times	Feby.	19th	1828).


--- Page 208 ---
5.iii:	Robert	Cruikshank,
	
NEW	SCENE
	
FOR	THE
	
OLD
	
FARCE	OF	THE
JEW	AND	THE	DOCTOR
	
(March	1828).
Duncombe	was	something	of	a	maverick	figure	who	moved	to	the	left	in	the
1830s	and	1840s,	emerging	as	a	keen	supporter	of	Chartism,	as	well	as	of	Italian
and	Hungarian	nationalism.	But	it	is	suggestive	that,	though	he	never	completed
it,	he	also	attempted	to	write	a	book	entitled	
The	Jews	of	England,	Their	History
and	Wrongs.
	It	seems	reasonable	to	infer	that	he,	like	Fournier	in	France,	was
one	of	those	liberals	of	the	1820s	who	saw	no	contradiction	in	attacking
conservative	ministers	and	Jewish	financiers,	even	in	terms	which	by	modern
standards	seem	quite	anti-Semitic.	The	cartoonists’	motives	were	not	dissimilar.
The	original	play	
The	Jew	and	the	Doctor
	is	about	a	generous	Jew	who	brings	up
a	Christian	child	and	endows	her	with	£5,000.	The	cartoons	invert	the	story	by
portraying	Nathan	in	the	act	of	trying	to	bribe	Wellington.	The	recurrent	theme	is
of	a	tottering	government,	inextricably	tied	not	only	to	a	corrupt	court	but	also	to
a	corrupting	banker.	In	Cruikshank’s	cartoon,	Wellington	sits	on	a	coffin	marked
“Hic	Iacit	the	Constitution,”	with	two	bottles	behind	him	marked	“Physic	for
Church”	and	“Physic	for	State.”
Another	cartoon	of	1828	(see	illustration	5.iv)	entitled	
An	Untoward	Event,	or
a	Tory	Triumph
	shows	Wellington	being	carried	by	Londonderry	and	two	others.
(Wellington	carries	the	“Treasury	Money	Box,”	a	“Treatise	on	the	Corn	Laws,”
the	“Army	Estimates,”	a	sword	marked	“Waterloo”	and	a	bone	marked
“Commander	in	Chief	ship,”	on	the	end	of	an	elaborate	fork—an	allusion	to	the
post	he	relinquished	while	serving	as	Prime	Minister.)	One	of	the	bearers	says	to
Nathan:	“Ah	My	good	R-child,	lend	a	hand,	for	he’s	quite	a	dead	weight.”	But
Nathan	replies:	“No,	no,	we’ll	not	put	our	shoulders	to	it.	He’s	no	Daniel,”	and	a
bearded	Jew	whispers:	“No,	
No,	take	care	of	de	Monish.”	Old	Corruption	and
New	Corruption	are	portrayed	as	two	sides	of	the	same	political	coin.	Yet,	in
each	cartoon,	stress	is	laid	on	Nathan’s	Jewishness:	sometimes	his	foreign	accent
is	exaggerated,	sometimes	his	appearance	is	altered	to	make	him	conform	to	the
stereotype	of	the	unassimilated	immigrant,	sometimes	he	is	seen	in	the	company
of	such	a	stereotype.

--- Page 209 ---
5.iv:	“Shortshanks”	[Seymour],
	
AN	UNTOWARD	EVENT,	OR	A	TORY
TRIUMPH
	
(February	1828).
The	only	qualification	which	needs	to	be	made	is	that	the	cartoonists	of	the
period	can	scarcely	be	accused	of	singling	out	Jews	as	targets	for	their	satire.
The	Irishman	and	the	Scotsman	in	
A	Tory	Triumph
	are	scarcely	more
sympathetically	portrayed	than	the	Jews.	The	Irishman	has	simian	features	and
leans	on	a	spade,	muttering	“Devil	burn	peat	if	he	[Wellington]	puts	a	finger	to
it,	’tis	no	good	to	poor	Erin”;	while	the	hook-nosed	Scot	in	his	kilt	exclaims:	“Na
na	Mon	wanna	he	spend	the	siller	on	red	jackets	lang	spurs	and	sic	like.”
Nevertheless,	they	conspicuously	stand	next	to	the	“plain	Englishman”	John
Bull.	Nathan	and	the	poor	Jew	stand	on	the	other	side	of	the	road.
	
From	Canning	to	Wellington
Was	there	any	truth	in	these	various	allegations	of	hidden	Rothschild	influence?
The	answer	is	that	there	was,	though	the	reality	was	more	complex	than	the
Rothschilds’	critics	could	know.	As	we	have	already	seen,	Nathan	Rothschild
had	good	reason	to	feel	loyalty	towards	Herries,	whose	patronage	had	given	him
his	single	most	important	business	opportunity,	and	hostility	towards	Huskisson,
whose	monetary	and	commercial	policies	he	had	consistently	opposed.	However,
there	was	an	additional	
political	dimension	which	explains	Nathan’s	(at	first

--- Page 210 ---
sight	puzzling)	lack	of	sympathy	with	Herries.	When	he	heard	the	news	of	his
old	associate’s	defeat,	he	did	no	more	than	shrug,	telling	Carl:	“Our	friend
Herries	is	annoyed	because	he	has	been	given	a	poor	job.	He	is	annoyed,	but	I
cannot	help	him.	He	must	be	patient,	and	perhaps	he	will	get	another	job.”	In
fact,	what	interested	and	pleased	Nathan	far	more	was	the	fact	that	the	Duke	of
Wellington	had	emerged	from	the	crisis	as	Prime	Minister.
The	cartoonists	who	depicted	Nathan	as	trying	to	bribe	Wellington	or	refusing
to	support	his	government	were	only	slightly	wide	of	the	mark.	Not	only	had	the
Rothschilds	been	cultivating	the	Duke	assiduously	since	his	victories	over
France	(which	they	had,	of	course,	largely	financed);	more	importantly,	his
conception	of	British	foreign	policy	accorded	far	better	with	Rothschild	interests
than	that	of	his	mercurial	predecessor	Canning.
George	Canning	no	more	believed	in	“regenerating”	Europe	than	his
predecessor	Castlereagh.	What	distinguished	the	two	was	Canning’s
determination	to	pursue	British	interests,	with	minimal	regard	for	the	other	great
powers.	As	he	put	it,	famously:	“For	
Europe
	I	shall	be	desirous	
now
	and	
then
	to
read	
England
.”	He	pointedly	declined	to	take	into	account	“the	wishes	of	any
other	Government,	or	the	interests	of	any	other	people,	except	in	so	far	as	those
wishes,	those	feelings	and	those	interests	may,	or	might,	concur	with	the	just
interests	of	England.”	This	explains	Britain’s	refusal	to	sanction	the	French
intervention	in	Spain,	to	which	Canning	had	responded	with	a	strong	pledge	to
uphold	Portuguese	neutrality	and	recognition	of	the	Latin	American	republics’
independence	from	Spain.	That	did	not	much	bother	the	Rothschilds,	who
comfortably	played	both	ends	against	the	middle	over	Spain.	However,	in	his	last
years—particularly	in	his	brief	period	as	Prime	Minister	(April-August	1827)—
Canning	took	bolder	steps	which	did	much	to	alarm	the	Rothschilds.
There	was	already	a	degree	of	tension	in	their	relationship	even	before
Liverpool’s	death.	As	James	said	in	November	1826,	“It	would	be	a	mortal	sin	to
be	dependent	.	.	.	on	a	Canning.”	The	feeling	was	mutual:	the	following	month,
when	Canning	received	details	of	an	important	speech	in	Paris	from	the
Rothschilds	twelve	hours	before	the	official	report	of	the	speech	from	the	British
embassy,	he	wrote	angrily	to	his	ambassador:
You	must	make	full	allowance	too	for	the	day	which	I	passed	on	Saturday.
“Good	God!	what!	nothing	direct	from	Paris!	Perhaps	it	is	a	mere	stock-jobbing
report.”	“Perhaps	it	is	a	trick	of	M.	Rothschild’s.”	.	.	.	Such	were	the	
propos
	of
the	morning	.	.	.	I	hope	you	will	contrive	to	establish	some	communication	with
the	F.O.	at	Paris,	that	will	prevent	Rothschild	from	getting	official	
papers
,	(
news

--- Page 211 ---
you	cannot	help),	before	you.
That	this	less	than	friendly	figure	was	to	be	Prime	Minister	deeply	alarmed	the
Rothschilds.	James	immediately	anticipated	“a	very	serious	crisis	on	our	hands
in	Spain	and	in	Portugal”	and	“a	complete	standstill	in	business	activity”	in
Paris.	For	in	December	1826,	“to	defend	and	preserve	the	independence	of	an
Ally,”	Canning	had	sent	troops	to	Portugal	in	support	of	the	young	Portuguese
Queen	Maria,	whose	claim	to	the	throne	was	being	challenged	by	her	uncle	Dom
Miguel.	Because	
Miguel	had	the	backing	of	the	reactionary	Bourbon	regime	in
Spain,	which	in	turn	was	supported	by	France,	this	raised	the	possibility	of	a
confrontation	between	Britain	and	France.	For	the	first	time,	the	Rothschilds
appreciated	what	a	large	stake	they	had	in	peace	between	the	great	powers.	For
nothing	could	do	more	to	weaken	the	price	of	consols,	rentes	and	every	other
security	they	and	their	clients	held	than	a	war.	Although	Villèle	had	reassured
James	in	November	“that	I	should	not	be	silly	because	England	and	France
would	never	go	to	war	on	account	of	such	miserable	people	like	the	Spanish	and
Portuguese,”	James	had	been	worried	enough	about	Canning’s	attitude	“to
remain	on	the	sidelines”	(that	is,	to	make	no	major	purchases	or	sales)	until	the
crisis	blew	over.	The	appointment	of	Canning	as	premier	revived	these	fears	of
Anglo-French	conflict	over	Portugal.	The	brothers	took	the	view	that	Canning
was	backing	the	wrong	side	in	what	might	prove	to	be	a	bloody	civil	war.	At	an
early	stage	they	seem	to	have	made	a	decision	in	favour	of	Dom	Miguel,	though
it	is	not	clear	why.
The	second	reason	for	Rothschild	anxiety	about	Canning	was	his	anti-Turkish
(and	therefore	pro-Russian)	policy	over	Greece.	By	1826	the	risings	by	Greek
communities	in	Moldavia,	the	Peloponnese	and	Missolonghi	against	Ottoman
rule	had	been	largely	crushed	by	the	Egyptian	Prince	Ibrahim	Pasha	(the	son	of
Mehemet	Ali).	From	the	point	of	view	of	Metternich,	this	was	an	entirely
satisfactory	outcome:	another	revolutionary	threat	to	the	status	quo	had	been
thwarted.	However,	Greek	sympathisers	in	Britain	and	France,	excited	by	reports
of	Byron’s	death	at	Missolonghi	and	of	Turkish	cruelty,	clamoured	for	some	kind
of	intervention.	More	seriously,	traditional	Russian	ambitions	in	the	region
appeared	to	revive	with	the	accession	of	Nicholas	I	as	Tsar.	In	the	hope	of
averting	unilateral	Russian	intervention	on	behalf	of	the	Greeks,	Canning	sent	a
reluctant	Wellington	to	St	Petersburg	in	April	1826	to	agree	a	joint	Anglo-
Russian	policy.	The	deal	struck	effectively	gave	Russia	a	free	hand	in	Moldavia,
while	committing	the	two	powers	to	impose	some	settlement	on	the	Turks—
forcibly,	if	need	be—which	would	grant	the	Greeks	limited	self-government;	a

--- Page 212 ---
policy	which	Villèle	endorsed	in	July	1827.	The	upshot	was	that	in	the	autumn
of	1827	a	joint	naval	expedition	was	sent	to	the	Eastern	Mediterranean	and
inflicted	a	decisive	defeat	on	the	Ottoman	forces	at	Navarino.
As	Villèle	himself	put	it,	however,	“Cannon	fire	is	bad	for	money”;	and,	like
Canning’s	threat	of	war	over	Portugal,	his	commitment	to	joint	military	action
against	Turkey	perturbed	the	Rothschilds.	There	were	two	reasons	for	this:
firstly,	they	were	inclined	to	share	Metternich’s	pro-Turkish	attitude,	even	if
plans	for	a	loan	to	Constantinople	had	come	to	nothing	in	1825;	secondly,	their
relations	with	St	Petersburg	had	taken	a	distinct	turn	for	the	worse	since	the
appointment	as	Finance	Minister	of	Count	Kankrin,	who	made	no	secret	of	the
fact	that	he	regarded	the	Rothschilds’	1822	loan	to	Russia	as	“useless.”
All	this	helps	to	explain	why	Nathan	was	so	delighted	by	the	emergence	of
Wellington	as	Prime	Minister	in	1828;	for	it	was	well	known	that	the	Duke
disapproved	of	Canning’s	policy	abroad,	sharing	the	King’s	view	that	he	had
played	into	the	Tsar’s	hands	by	turning	against	Britain’s	“ancient	ally,”	the
Sultan.	“Consols	have	gone	up	because	of	our	[new]	Ministers,”	Nathan	reported
gleefully	to	Carl.	“Praise	be	to	God	that	we	have	good	news,	as	Russia	will	wait
[before	taking	further	military	action],	through	Wellington	everybody	is	for
peace	which	does	not	surprise	me,	for	our	King	in	his	speeches	is	nothing	but
schalom	aleichem
	[peace	be	with	you].”	
When	Mrs	Arbuthnot	asked	Nathan	at
around	the	same	time	“what	they	thought	of	the	Duke	in	the	City,	[h]e	said	they
had	unbounded	confidence	in	him.”	In	the	two	and	a	half	years	of	Wellington’s
premiership	which	followed,	that	unbounded	confidence	was	translated	into
concrete	financial	support	for	a	foreign	policy	markedly	different	from
Canning’s.	Not	only	did	Nathan	purchase	substantial	sums	of	exchequer	bills	in
1828	(£1	million)	and	1829	(£3	million);	he	also	provided	Dom	Miguel	with
£50,000,	“under	the	guarantee	of	the	British	Government,”	to	enable	him	to	take
possession	of	his	office	as	Regent	in	Portugal.	At	the	same	time,	he	floated	a
£769,000	loan	to	Miguel’s	brother	Pedro,	the	Emperor	of	Brazil,	in	an	effort	to
stabilise	Brazilian	finances,	still	reeling	from	the	1825	Latin	American	debt
crisis.
6
Predictably,	this	somewhat	confused	policy	was	grist	to	the	satirists’	mill.	We
have	already	seen	the	various	references	to	“Don	Miggel’s	monish”	in	the
cartoons	of	1828.	Brazil’s	financial	difficulties	were	also	ridiculed	in	
The	Hue
and	Cry
,	a	cartoon	published	in	the	wake	of	Pedro’s	default	on	the	earlier	1823
loan	(see	illustration	5.v).	Here	Nathan	is	pictured	advising	Dom	Pedro	not	to
pay	the	British	bondholders—represented	by	John	Bull	prostrate	on	the	ground.

--- Page 213 ---
“If	you	pay	them	you’ll	want	more	monies,”	says	Nathan	to	Pedro,	“and	that	is
not	convenient	just	now.”	The	devil	whispers	in	Nathan’s	ear:	“Tell	him	to	call	it
political	expediency—
you
	know	how	easily	John	Bull	is	
humbugg’d
.”
The	Rothschilds	were	equally	in	accord	with	Wellington	when,	against
Nathan’s	expectations,	Russia	renewed	hostilities	against	Turkey	in	1828.	A
Russian	request	for	a	loan	was	politely	turned	down,	much	to	Metternich’s
delight,	and	the	broth-ers	continued	to	hope	for	Russian	military	reverses
throughout	the	campaign.	When,	to	their	chagrin,	the	Russians	won	and	imposed
a	modest	indemnity	on	the	Turks	under	the	terms	of	the	Treaty	of	Adrianople
(September	1829),	the	Rothschilds	hastened	to	offer	their	services	to	facilitate
the	payment.	Their	sole	anxiety	throughout	this,	the	first	of	many	Eastern	crises
they	would	have	to	weather,	was	that	Wellington	might	feel	obliged	to	intervene
against	Russia.	As	over	Portugal,	the	Rothschild	view	was	now	overtly	pacifist,
as	Nathan	emphasised	to	Salomon:
There	are	some	here	who	want	us	[meaning	Britain]	to	quarrel	.	.	.	with	[the
Russian	ambassador]	Lieven	.	.	.	and	want	us	to	send	angry	Notes	.	.	.	I	must	tell
you	Wellington	and	Peel	would	like	to	quarrel	with	Russia,	but	in	the	end	we
should	have	to	go	to	war.	I	am	not	for	demonstrations,	and	we	must	see	to
maintaining	peace.	What’s	the	good	of	quarrelling?	The	Russians	have	gone	too
far,	and	the	world	will	be	angry	with	us	and	will	say:	Why	didn’t	you	do	it
twelve	months	ago?	If	England	now	says,	Yes,	we	are	angry	and	want	to	go	to
war,	Austria	and	France	will	say,	We	will	remain	out—they	will	leave	us	in	the
lurch,	and	we	shall	be	involved	alone.	I	went	to	Wellington	and	congratulated
him	on	peace.	He	said:	“Peace	is	not	yet.	It	is	not	yet	ratified.”	.	.	.	There	is
dissatisfaction	with	the	Russian	Peace	in	every	respect.	[But	]	the	Cabinet	has
now	decided	for	the	present	to	remain	quite	calm	and	not	to	write	a	word	to
Russia,	to	keep	quiet	and	to	let	come	what	may.

--- Page 214 ---
5.v:	“Sharpshooter,”
	
The	HUE	and	CRY;	or	JOHN	BULL	between	two
Knaves,	Stools,	and	the	Heads	of	Police	called	to	rescue	him	from	Pickpockets.
Dedicated	to	the	holders	of	Foreign	Bonds	in	General
	
(1829).
James	neatly	summed	up	the	rationality	of	this	pacifism:	“If	England	were
earnestly	to	attack	[over]	the	[Turkish]	issue	then	I	assure	you	that	we	will	suffer
a	fall	of	at	least	5	per	cent	over	here.	If	on	the	other	hand	the	reports	from	there
turn	out	to	be	better,	then	we	could	get	a	small	improvement.”	The	connection
between	international	peace	and	bond	market	stability	was	to	become	a	first
principle	of	Rothschild	policy	in	the	decade	to	come.
	
Strings	of	Influence
It	was	not	only	a	shared	view	of	foreign	policy	which	united	the	Rothschilds
with	politicians	like	Wellington	or	Metternich,	however.	Where	the	conspiracy
theorists	of	the	1820s	came	closest	to	the	mark	was	when	they	suggested	that
private	financial	interests	also	played	a	part.
We	have	already	seen	that	it	was	common	practice	for	European	politicians	of
the	period	to	accept	favours—ranging	from	investment	tips	to	outright	bribes—
from	bankers.	At	the	Congress	of	Aix-la-Chapelle,	it	was	the	fact	that	Baring
had	sold	stakes	in	his	impending	French	reparations	loan	to	most	of	the	ministers
present	that	made	them	so	eager	to	postpone	the	loan	when	the	market
unexpectedly	crashed.	The	Rothschilds	were	adept	at	playing	the	same	game.

--- Page 215 ---
Indeed,	Amschel	was	“convinced	that	we	as	Jews	could	not	get	by	without
bribing	and	that	the	Gentiles	have	the	advantage.”	In	1818,	for	example,	the
Frankfurt	house	distributed	shares	of	the	Rothschilds’	new	Prussian	loan	not	only
to	other	Frankfurt	bankers	like	Bethmann	and	Gontard,	but	also	to	their	old
sleeping	partner	Buderus,	the	Austrian	representative	at	the	Bundestag,	Count
Buol,	and	a	number	of	other	members	of	the	diplomatic	corps.	In	Paris,	the
political	figures	who	were	offered	Prussian	bonds	included	Talleyrand.
Another	way	of	securing	political	influence	by	financial	means	was	by
lending	
money	to	such	individuals.	The	most	eminent	of	all	French	recipients	of
Rothschild	loans	in	this	period	was	Louis	XVIII	himself,	whom	Nathan	had
advanced	£200,000	on	behalf	of	the	British	government	to	meet	the	costs	of	his
return	to	France	in	1814.	This	did	not	much	endear	Nathan	to	the	Bourbon
family,	however,	for	he	insisted	on	repayment	with	interest	three	years	later.	By
contrast,	the	loans	made	in	the	1820s	to	the	duc	d’Orléans	(the	future	Louis
Philippe)	were	a	more	long-term	investment	which	paid	ample	dividends	in	the
subsequent	decade.	Prussian	recipients	of	loans	included	the	son-in-law	of
Prince	Hardenberg.	More	routine	banking	facilities	like	current	accounts	were
offered	to	other	Prussian	officials—notably	the	ambassador	in	London,	Wilhelm
von	Humboldt,	and	the	key	official	during	the	1818	loan	negotiations,	Rother.
Because	these	usually	led	to	the	granting	of	generous	overdrafts,	however,	such
accounts	often	performed	the	same	role	as	loans.	No	sooner	had	Caroline	von
Humboldt	been	introduced	to	Salomon	than	he	asked	her	point	blank	“whether
he	could	be	of	any	use	to	me	in	the	matter	of	money,	and	said	that	his	purse	was
at	my	disposal.”
Finally,	when	a	more	subtle	approach	seemed	appropriate,	the	Rothschilds
gave	presents	to	those	they	wished	to	cultivate.	As	Carl	put	it,	“One	must	have
something	when	going	to	see	the	great	and	good,	either	gossip	or	something	to
show	them.”	The	roots	of	the	family’s	later	penchant	for	collecting	art	and
natural	curiosities	can	be	found	here;	for	the	brothers	prided	themselves	on	their
ability	to	find	exotic	gifts	for	jaded	palates.	They	had	an	advantage	in	Nathan’s
access	to	the	London	market,	by	far	the	best	in	the	world	because	of	the	growing
superiority	of	British	trade	and	manufacturing.	In	1816,	for	example,	Nathan
sent	Amschel	two	tortoises,	one	of	which	he	suggested	be	given	to	the	Elector	of
Hesse-Kassel.	(When	they	arrived	dead,	Amschel	had	them	stuffed	and
presented	them	to	William	anyway.)	Other	luxury	goods	requested	by	his
brothers	for	prospective	clients	included	jewelled	caskets	for	the	Elector,	a	horse
suitable	for	a	lady	and	“a	carving	knife	and	fork	with	ivory	handles”	for

--- Page 216 ---
“someone	who	helped	us.”
The	first	British	official	to	benefit	materially	from	his	relationship	with
Rothschilds	was,	as	we	have	seen,	Herries.	Though	the	full	extent	of	his	personal
stake	in	the	firm’s	wartime	operations	is	impossible	to	ascertain,	he	was	a	regular
participant	in	post-war	loans	like	the	1817	loan	to	the	city	of	Paris.	Herries
—“your	own	Buderus	over	there”—was,	as	Salomon	put	it,	one	of	the
“important	people	whose	favours	are	essential.”	Another	was	Lord	Stewart,
Castlereagh’s	brother,	the	British	representative	in	Paris	in	the	post-war	years.
He	first	asked	Salomon	and	James	to	“speculate	for	him	in	rentes”	in	October
1817,	and	thereafter	became	“very	friendly	with	us.	Between	ourselves	he	likes
to	gamble,”	reported	Salomon,	“and	I	let	him	share	in	our	business	.	.	.	to	the
amount	of	50,000	francs	rentes.”	This	was	the	case	which	reminded	Salomon	of
his	father’s	precept	that	“if	a	high-placed	person	enters	into	a	[financial]
partnership	with	a	Jew,	he	belongs	to	the	Jew.”	When	Stewart	came	to	them
asking	for	assistance	with	his	English	affairs,	Salomon	urged	Nathan	to	oblige
him:	“We	must	routinely	accede	to	this	minister’s	wishes,	as	he	is	everything
here,	and	is	helping	us	to	get	the	loans,	the	liquidation	[of	French	reparations]
and	everything,	and	is	the	
English
	minister.”	Twenty	years	later	James	gave	the
Prime	Minister	Lord	Melbourne’s	brother	Frederick	investment	tips	during	his
time	as	ambassador	in	Vienna.	“Well,	Lamb	is	of	the	opinion	that	there	will	not
be	any	war,”	he	wrote	in	a	typical	letter.	“I	told	him	that	if	he	sees	that	rentes	are
rising	over	
there	then	I	will	buy	24,000	francs	of	rentes	for	him	in	order	to	resell
them	at	a	profit,	for	he	currently	has	some	£30,000	to	his	credit	in	London.”
British	officials	who	directly	borrowed	from	the	Rothschilds	included	George
Harrison	and	Charles	Arbuthnot	at	the	Treasury:	the	former	owed	Rothschilds
over	£3,000	in	1825;	the	latter	borrowed	four	times	as	much.
It	should	be	stressed	that	such	relationships	were	not	in	themselves	illegal—
the	Rothschilds	had	every	right	to	extend	banking	services	to	politicians	and
civil	servants.	However,	the	brothers	privately	referred	to	“bribery”	as	a	feature
of	their	relations	with	Arbuthnot	and	with	numerous	foreign	officials,	notably
the	Russian	Gervais.	And,	as	the	case	of	Herries	illustrates,	allegations	of
corruption	in	the	press	could	be	highly	damaging	to	the	career	of	the	politician
concerned.	Indeed,	the	brothers	had	been	anticipating	a	political	row	of	the	sort
which	blew	up	in	1828	for	more	than	a	decade,	ever	since	they	first	began	to
worry	that	their	wartime	accounts	with	Herries	might	not	bear	close
parliamentary	scrutiny.
In	this	context,	it	is	not	entirely	surprising	to	find	that	the	Duke	of	Wellington

--- Page 217 ---
also	banked	for	a	time	with	Rothschilds.	Indeed,	it	was	Stewart	who	formally
introduced	the	Duke	to	Salomon	and	James.	The	importance	of	this	relationship
was	probably	small	in	financial	terms:	the	surviving	1825	balance	sheet	suggests
that	Wellington	did	not	make	much	use	of	his	overdraft	facility.	But	in
Salomon’s	eyes	the	prestige	of	being	“Wellington’s	bankers”	was	what	mattered:
It	is	a	great	honour	.	.	.	You	may	say,	“What	does	honour	matter?	Honour	is	not
money.”	As	an	honest	man	I	tell	you	that	now	I	prefer	honour	to	money.	One
cannot	do	more	[with	money]	than	to	eat	[from	the	proceeds]	and	we	have
enough	to	eat.	[But]	food	does	not	taste	good	without	honour.	Wellington	stands
here	higher	in	public	esteem	than	the	king	himself.
Just	two	months	later,	James	was	already	boasting	of	his	influence	with	the
Duke,	whom	he	had	“already	given	various	things.”
Wellington,	however,	was	not	the	most	senior	British	political	figure	to	whom
the	Rothschilds	“gave	things.”	It	is	extraordinary	to	find	that	the	family’s	interest
in	the	financial	affairs	of	King	George	IV	predated	his	accession	to	the	throne	by
as	much	as	fifteen	years.	The	earliest	document	referring	to	“bills	of	exchange
from	Prince	George	to	the	nominal	amount	of	150,000	Frankfurt	gulden”	is	in
Mayer	Amschel’s	hand	and	is	dated	1805.	Two	years	later	they	figure	in	one	of
his	earliest	surviving	balance	sheets,	entered	with	a	discounted	value	of	just	over
127,784	gulden—though	even	this	figure	he	regarded	as	questionable.	For,	even
as	the	heir	to	the	throne	and	Prince	Regent,	George	was	regarded	as	a	singularly
unreliable	debtor.	How	did	Mayer	Amschel,	then	the	father	of	an	obscure
Manchester	textile	merchant,	come	to	acquire	a	bill	on	the	Prince	Regent?	The
likeliest	answer	is	that	he	bought	it	from	the	Elector	of	Hesse-Kassel,	who	had
made	a	number	of	loans	to	the	sons	of	George	III	in	the	1790s.	Ten	years	later,
with	Nathan	firmly	established	as	a	banker	in	London,	the	sons	of	Mayer
Amschel	turned	to	these	other	royal	debts	with	the	intention	of	making	Nathan—
in	Amschel’s	somewhat	old-fashioned	phrase—“court	banker”	in	England.	All
told,	the	Prince	Regent	owed	£109,000,	the	Duke	of	York	£55,000	and	the	Duke
of	Clarence	£20,000,	making	a	total	of	£184,000.	Only	the	Prince	Regent	had
ever	paid	interest	on	his	loan.	After	protracted	negotiations	with	the	Elector’s
advisers—and	despite	the	objections	of	Buderus—the	Rothschilds	succeeded	in
buying	these	debts	in	return	for	the	equivalent	of	their	face	value	in	consols.
Superficially,	this	was	far	more	than	they	were	worth.	In	reality,	it	was	an
inspired	investment—another	of	Nathan’s	“master-strokes.”	As	Salomon
commented:	“This	makes	me	a	very	powerful	man.”	“There	is	luck	attached	to

--- Page 218 ---
everything	English,”	he	enthused.	“Everything	touching	them	turns	out	happily.
So	it	is	with	the	court	of	our	Elector.	The	two	courts	fit	together.”
The	value	of	these	old	royal	debts	was	that,	by	making	Nathan	one	of	the
Prince	Regent’s	creditors,	they	brought	him	into	direct	contact	with	the	officials
charged	with	managing	the	future	King’s	troubled	financial	affairs.	And	not	only
his	financial	affairs:	by	the	end	of	1817	Nathan	was	asking	Salomon	and	James
to	gather	information	which	might	be	of	assistance	to	the	so-called	“Milan
commission,”	set	up	to	gather	evidence	against	“the	great	man’s	wife”—Princess
Caroline	of	Brunswick—whom	he	was	determined	to	divorce.	In	1822,	just	after
George	had	finally	ascended	the	throne,	a	loan	of	£50,000	was	arranged	with
Nathan,	secured	on	the	revenues	of	his	Hanoverian	possessions.	A	year	later	a
further	£125,000	was	requested.	It	was	at	around	this	time	that	he	came	into
contact	with	Sir	William	Knighton,	though	the	key	figure	in	the	loan
negotiations	was	George	Harrison,	who	assured	the	King	of	Nathan’s	“great
loyalty	and	honesty	towards	your	Majesty	.	.	.	in	everything	relating	to	this
transaction.”	As	we	have	seen,	Harrison	himself	borrowed	several	thousand
pounds	from	Nathan	not	long	after	this.
Nor	was	George	IV	the	only	member	of	the	British	royal	family	to	whom
Nathan	lent	money	in	the	1820s.	In	1824,	for	example,	he	lent	£10,000	to	the
Duke	of	York	on	the	security	of	some	jewels,	as	well	as	giving	him	100
complimentary	shares	in	the	Alliance	Assurance	Company.
7
	The	Rothschilds
also	looked	ahead	to	the	next	generation.	In	1816	the	only	child	of	the	Prince
Regent,	Princess	Charlotte,	was	betrothed	to	a	minor	German	prince,	Leopold	of
Saxe-Coburg,	the	youngest	son	of	Duke	Francis	Frederick.	The	brothers	at	once
recognised	Leopold’s	potential	importance	(his	new	father-in-law	was,	after	all,
in	his	fifties	and	notoriously	sybaritic).	When	he	passed	through	Frankfurt	on	his
way	to	England	for	the	wedding,	Carl	made	his	move:	“We	went	to	see	him.	He
is	a	good	man.	We	gave	him	a	bill	for	£700	on	you	against	gold	as	well	as	a
letter	of	credit	.	.	.	He	intends	to	buy	jewellery.	Please	offer	him	your	services.”
Nathan	needed	no	further	prompting.	By	April	he	was	being	entrusted	with
delivery	of	Leopold’s	private	correspondence	to	Germany,	and	by	August	a	loan
of	10,000	gulden	was	being	discussed.
Only	the	effort	Nathan	put	into	cultivating	Leopold	can	explain	the	brothers’
extraordinary	reaction	in	May	the	following	year	to	the	news	that	Princess
Charlotte	had	died,	apparently	extinguishing	Leopold’s	hopes	of	power	in
Britain.	“We	are	unable	to	write	you	fully	today,”	wrote	Salomon	to	Nathan,

--- Page 219 ---
because	of	the	heartbreak	caused	by	that	disaster,	the	death	of	Princess	Charlotte.
We	lost	our	heads.	I	still	cannot	make	myself	believe	that	the	noble	woman	died.
We	received	the	bad	news	on	Saturday	afternoon	at	five	o’clock.	We	were
negotiating	with	Baring	for	another	million	of	rentes	and	we	arranged	with	him
that	we	are	going	to	give	him	a	final	answer	on	Sunday	.	.	.	But	when	he	came	on
Sunday	for	the	answer,	our	consternation	was	so	great	that	we	told	him	that	we
could	do	nothing	
for	the	time	being,	we	are	far	too	confused	for	it.
Unfortunately,	we	are	losing	terribly	much,	my	dear	Nathan.	It	is	terrible,	my
heart	breaks	when	I	speak	about	it	.	.	.	I	can’t	write	anything	about	business.	We
did	not	do	any.	We	should	.	.	.	draw	the	moral	of	it:	money,	honours	are	worth
nothing,	we	are	all	only	dust;	man	should	give	up	his	pride	.	.	.	he	should	not
make	himself	believe	anything;	we	are	mud	and	dust.	It	pains	me	very	badly,	this
unfortunate	event.
“Believe	me,”	Salomon	added	two	days	later,	“I	was	so	horrified	[at	the	news],
that	since	then	I	have	had	no	appetite.	It	is	as	if	my	stomach	has	shrunk	and	I
have	never-ending	pains	in	the	joints.”	Nathan,	he	assumed,	would	also	be
“thrown	off	his	feet”	and	“made	ill”	by	the	news.	Yet	the	brothers	were	always
quick	to	come	to	terms	with	adversity.	“Nobody	is	immortal,”	reflected
Salomon,	“and	we	have	to	get	over	this	.	.	.	Unfortunately,	our	sorrow	and
sadness	cannot	bring	her	back.”
Another	bank	might	have	been	tempted	to	end	Leopold’s	privileged	status
now	that	he	was	a	mere	widower.	Salomon	urged	Nathan	to	do	the	reverse:
“According	to	the	English	papers	the	Prince	of	Coburg	will	stay	in	England	and
is	going	to	remain	an	important	person	there.	We	should	show	even	more
friendship	towards	a	man	who	fell	on	hard	times	than	before.	I	ask	you	to	show
him	more	feeling	than	hitherto.”	This	accounts	for	the	subsequent	efforts	of
Nathan	to	arrange	life	insurance	not	only	for	Leopold	but	for	his	father,	and	for
the	fact	that	Carl	happily	put	Leopold	up	at	his	Naples	villa	in	1826.
It	was	to	prove	an	extremely	shrewd	strategy.	For	the	link	forged	in	these
years	between	Nathan	and	the	man	James	called	“your	Coburg”	was	to	prove
enduring	and	mutually	beneficial.	Not	for	nothing	did	one	anti-Rothschild	writer
of	the	1840s	point	out	the	similarity	between	the	House	of	Rothschild	and	the
House	of	Saxe-Coburg-Gotha,	those	two	extended	German	families	which	were
to	rise	from	obscurity	to	glory	in	the	course	of	the	nineteenth	century.	Indeed,
theirs	was	to	be	an	almost	symbiotic	relationship.	The	3.5	million	gulden	lent	to
the	Saxe-Coburgs	by	the	Frankfurt	house	between	1837	and	1842	was	only	one
aspect	of	the	connection.	Of	greater	importance	was	the	support	which	the

--- Page 220 ---
Rothschilds	gave	to	those	members	of	the	family	who	left	Coburg	in	search	of
new	thrones	elsewhere.
Not	that	the	Rothschilds	lost	interest	in	the	question	of	the	British	succession
following	Princess	Charlotte’s	death.	When	the	Prince	Regent’s	brother,	the
Duke	of	Kent,	set	off	for	Germany	to	marry	Victoria	of	Saxe-Coburg,	he	took
with	him	a	letter	of	credit	on	the	Frankfurt	Rothschilds.	When	the	marriage
produced	a	daughter,	Victoria—who	at	once	became	next-in-line	to	the	throne—
Nathan	hastened	to	offer	the	proud	father	financial	advice	and	his	exclusive
messenger	service.	In	1823	he	also	lent	a	substantial	sum	(400,000	gulden)	to	the
Prince	of	Leiningen,	the	Duchess	of	Kent’s	son	by	her	first	marriage.	Nathan’s
sons	continued	to	act	as	the	Duchess’s	banker	after	the	Duke’s	death,
occasionally	relaying	money	to	her	brother	Ferdinand	of	Saxe-Coburg.
Yet	even	the	English	royal	family	were	not	the	most	influential	of	the
Rothschilds’	clients	and	“friends”	in	this	period.	For,	as	historians	generally
agree,	this	was	an	era	in	which	European	politics	were	to	a	large	extent
dominated	not	by	Britain	but	by	Austria.	As	we	have	seen,	the	man	who	made
Austrian	policy	between	1809	and	1848	was	Metternich;	and	he	too	banked	with
Rothschilds.	Indeed,	the	relationship	which	developed	between	Metternich	and
Salomon	Rothschild	may	be	
seen	as	in	some	respects	the	prototype	for	the
relationship	which	later	developed	between	Bismarck	and	the	Rothschilds’
associate	in	Berlin,	Bleichröder—except	that	Metternich	came	to	feel	far	closer
to	his	banker	emotionally	and	intellectually	than	Bismarck	ever	did.
Although	he	came	from	an	aristocratic	family	with	estates	in	the	Mosel	valley,
Prince	Klemens	Wenzel	Nepomuk	Lothar	von	Metternich-Winneburg	was	“cash-
poor”	for	much	of	his	long	political	career.	Within	a	year	of	their	first	meetings
with	him—in	Paris	during	the	1815	peace	negotiations—he	raised	the	possibility
of	a	loan	of	300,000	gulden	with	Amschel	and	Carl	in	Frankfurt.	Metternich	had
already	proved	a	useful	ally	to	the	brothers,	supplying	political	news	in	Paris,
supporting	their	efforts	to	secure	Austrian	financial	business	and	apparently	also
sympathising	with	their	campaign	for	Jewish	emancipation	in	Frankfurt.	The
arrangement	he	now	proposed	was	that	the	Rothschilds	should	advance	him
100,000	gulden	and	sell	a	further	200,000	gulden	of	5	per	cent	bonds	to	other
investors,	all	secured	on	the	new	estate	at	Johannisberg	which	the	Austrian
Emperor	had	just	given	him.	However,	Carl	was	reluctant	to	lend	so	much	to	a
single	individual,	no	matter	how	wealthy,	recalling	how	unsatisfactory	similar
loans	had	been	for	Prince	Wilhelm.	Despite	the	fact	that	Metternich	continued	to
prove	himself	“a	great	friend	of	ours”—supporting	the	requests	for	noble	and

--- Page 221 ---
consular	status—the	brothers	preferred	at	this	stage	to	limit	their	generosity	to
routine	banking	services	and	occasional	gifts,	like	the	Wedgwood	china	Nathan
sent	him	in	1821.
It	was	in	October	of	that	year	that	Metternich—accompanied	by	his	mistress,
Princess	Dorothy	de	Lieven—first	publicly	accepted	an	offer	of	Rothschild
hospitality,	“taking	soup”	with	Amschel	in	Frankfurt	on	his	way	back	to	Vienna
from	Hanover.
8
	This	was	interpreted	by	some	observers	as	a	calculated	gesture
of	support	for	the	Frankfurt	Jewish	community	at	a	time	when	conflict	over	the
civil	rights	question	was	at	its	height.	Less	than	a	year	later,	Metternich	received
his	thanks:	a	loan	of	900,000	gulden,	agreed	just	six	days	before	the	brothers
received	the	title	of	“baron”	from	the	Emperor.	This	loan	sealed	the	“friendship”
between	Metternich	and	the	Rothschilds.	At	Verona	in	1823,	Salomon	furnished
Metternich	with	cash	to	meet	his	(considerable)	personal	expenses.	In	Paris	two
years	later,	James	played	host	to	Metternich,	throwing	a	lavish	dinner	for	“the
representatives	of	the	Holy	Alliance”	which	greatly	impressed	the
Constitutionnel
	newspaper.	It	commented	ironically:
Thus	does	the	the	power	of	gold	reconcile	all	the	ranks	and	all	the	religions.	One
of	the	more	curious	spectacles	our	time—rich	as	it	is	in	contrasts—is	that	of	the
representatives	of	the	Holy	Alliance	established	in	the	name	of	Jesus	Christ
attending	a	banquet	given	by	a	Jew	on	the	day	that	the	law	of	sacrilege	is	being
debated	in	the	chambers.
9
A	year	later	James	was	present	at	another	equally	grand	soirée.	It	was	in	this
period	that	Metternich	began	to	make	use	of	the	Rothschilds’	courier	service	for
important	correspondence.	From	this	point	onwards,	he	and	Salomon	shared
political	news	on	a	regular	basis,	Metternich	informing	Salomon	of	Austrian
intentions	while	Salomon	provided	him	with	news	he	received	from	his	brothers
in	London,	Paris,	Frankfurt	and	Naples.	By	the	end	of	the	1820s	the	Rothschilds
had	begun	to	provide	Metternich—or	“Uncle,”	as	they	often	called	him—with	an
unofficial	diplomatic	channel,	through	which	he	could	relay	his	political	views
indirectly	and	discreetly	to	other	governments.
All	of	this	puts	the	bitter	accusations	of	David	Parish	on	the	eve	of	his	suicide
in	a	new	light.	The	Rothschilds,	Parish	complained	to	Metternich,	had
“understood	better	than	I	how	to	draw	you	into	their	[sphere	of]	interest”	and
how	to	secure	“your	special	protection.”	It	was,	he	insisted	in	his	letter	to
Salomon,	“the	new	alliance”	between	Metternich	and	the	Rothschilds	which	had
ruined	him.	“Under	the	protection	of	Prince	Metternich,	you	succeeded	in

--- Page 222 ---
securing	exclusive	control	over	numerous	transactions	in	which	I	had	a	moral
and	legal	claim	to	a	substantial	share.”	If	Salomon	had	given	him	his	rightful	cut
of	the	profits	from	the	Austrian	and	Neapolitan	loans,	he	might	have	been	able	to
rescue	Fries	&	Co.	“But	you	found	it	easier	and	more	advantageous	to	come	to
an	agreement	with	the	Prince	over	the	old	rentes	operation	and	in	this	way	to	put
him	wholly	on	your	side.”
Although	Parish’s	allegations	cannot	be	taken	at	face	value,	there	was	real
substance	to	his	claim	that	an	alliance	had	developed	between	Metternich	and
Salomon	Rothschild.	This	can	be	demonstrated	with	reference	to	the	contents	of
the	silver	box,	recently	rediscovered	in	Moscow,	in	which	Salomon	kept
Metternich’s	accounts	and	private	financial	correspondence.	These	long-lost
bank	statements	show	that	between	1825	and	1826	Metternich	was	in	a	position
to	repay	much	of	the	loan	of	1822.	However,	no	sooner	had	the	loan	been	paid
off—ahead	of	schedule—than	a	new	loan	for	1,040,000	gulden	(
c
.	£110,000)
was	arranged,	roughly	half	of	which	Metternich	used	to	purchase	a	new	estate	at
Plass,	and	the	rest	he	took	as	cash.	The	balance	sheet	of	the	Vienna	house	shows
that	Salomon	retained	some	35,000	gulden	of	the	bearer	bonds	issued	by
Metternich	for	the	purchase	of	Plass,	on	top	of	which	the	Prince	owed	an
additional	15,000	gulden.	His	total	private	debt	to	the	Rothschilds	grew	in	the
succeeding	two	years	to	nearly	70,000	gulden.	In	addition,	the	Frankfurt	house
advanced	over	117,000	gulden	to	Metternich’s	son	Viktor.	When	Metternich
married	again	in	1831,	Salomon	was	on	hand	to	help	resolve	the	financial
difficulties	of	his	third	wife,	Countess	Melanie	Zichy-Ferraris.
Nor	did	the	Rothschilds	confine	themselves	to	loans	and	overdrafts.	“Our
friend	Salomon’s	devotion	always	touches	me,”	remarked	Princess	Melanie	in
her	diary	in	May	1841,	on	receiving	a	present	from	him	of	American	deer	for
their	estate	near	Frankfurt.	A	few	months	later	she	described	a	visit	by	“Salomon
and	James,	their	nephew	Anthony	and	Salomon’s	son	and	finally	Amschel,	who
made	a	great	point	of	our	coming	to	dine	with	him	at	Frankfurt	next	Tuesday.
James	brought	me	a	pretty	mother-of-pearl	and	bronze	box	from	Paris,	filled
with	sweets,	which	was	all	to	the	good.”	At	Christmas	in	1843	Salomon	visited
the	Metternichs	at	Ischl,	bringing	“lovely	things	to	the	Metternich	children,	such
as	tempted	their	mother	to	play	with	them	herself.”
Metternich	was	not	the	only	eminent	Austrian	to	put	his	private	financial
affairs	in	Salomon’s	hands.	In	1821—in	a	classic	example	of	financial
speculation	based	on	inside	information—a	senior	Austrian	commander,	General
von	Wolzogen,	asked	Salomon	to	purchase	100,000	gulden	worth	of	metallic

--- Page 223 ---
bonds	on	his	behalf.	His	calculations	provide	a	fascinating	insight	into	the
dispassionate	attitude	of	one	senior	military	figure	to	the	Austrian	military
intervention	in	Italy:
My	reasoning	is	as	follows:	either	it	will	stay	cold,	or	it	will	get	hot.	In	the	first
case,	[metalliques]	will	immediately	go	up	anyway.	If	it	turns	hot,	then	it	is
probable	that	the	[army?]	will	march	into	Naples	and	in	that	case	I	believe	they
[metalliques]	will	rise	too	.	.	.	If	peace	remains,	one	can	expect	high	prices.	The
only	question	is	therefore	whether	to	buy	now	or	after	the	declaration	of	war.	I
am	inclined	to	buy	soon	.	.	.	But	I	leave	it	to	you	to	do	as	you	think	best,	and
indeed	not	to	buy	at	all	if	you	do	not	think	it	advantageous.
Other	political	figures	who	feature	in	the	accounts	of	the	Vienna	house	include
Stadion	and	the	influential	diplomat	Apponyi,	as	well	as	a	number	of	the	most
important	families	of	the	Austro-Hungarian	aristocracy.	Of	these,	the	Esterházys,
with	their	immense	estates	in	Hungary	and	links	to	the	still	wealthier	Thurn	und
Taxis	family,	were	the	most	important—and	problematic.	Beginning	with
£10,000	in	1820	and	300,000	gulden	in	1822,	the	Esterházys	borrowed	often
from	the	Rothschilds.	Three	years	later	Salomon	went	into	partnership	with	two
leading	Vienna	houses,	Arnstein	&	Eskeles	and	Simon	G.	Sina,	to	float	a	large
6.5	million	gulden	loan	(at	6	per	cent).	This	was	secured	on	Prince	Esterházy’s
estates	and	was	intended	“definitively	to	reorder”	the	family	finances.	However,
balance	sheets	for	the	succeeding	years	show	Esterházy	continuing	to	run
overdrafts	with	Rothschild	houses	in	London	and	Vienna:	£28,000	in	London	in
1825,	2,300	gulden	in	Vienna	three	years	later.	By	1831	matters	were	bad
enough	for	Esterházy	to	approach	Salomon	(through	Metternich)	for	another
loan.	Although	Salomon	was	hesitant,	the	Vienna	accounts	for	1832	put
Esterházy’s	total	debts	at	827,000	gulden,	and	three	years	later	the	debt	was
larger	still.	When	the	Prince	was	succeeded	by	his	son	Paul	in	1836,	there	was
another	attempt	at	stabilisation	in	the	form	of	a	7	million	gulden	lottery	loan,
issued	jointly	by	Salomon	and	Sina.	Yet	another	loan	(for	6.4	million	gulden)
followed	eight	years	later—one	of	a	spate	of	major	loans	to	the	aristocracy
floated	by	Rothschilds	and	Sina	in	the	1840s.	Small	wonder	Esterházy	“spoke
very	flatteringly	of	the	family”	to	third	parties.	As	in	the	case	of	Metternich,
financial	ties	were	inseparable	from	social	and	political	ties.	In	London,	Prince
Esterházy	dined	regularly	with	Nathan	while	serving	as	Austrian	ambassador
and	received	much	of	his	correspondence	from	Metternich	via	Rothschild
couriers.	In	Vienna,	the	relationship	appeared	so	close	that	in	1822	unfounded

--- Page 224 ---
rumours	appeared	in	the	press	suggesting	that	Esterházy	had	persuaded	Salomon
to	abandon	Judaism.
The	strategy	of	extending	credit	and	other	financial	facilities	to	influential	but
profligate	figures	like	Metternich	and	Esterházy	was	a	highly	effective	way	of
ensuring	political	goodwill	and	“friendship.”	Of	all	the	private	financial
relationships	of	this	era,	none	illustrates	this	better	than	that	between	Salomon
and	Metternich’s	secretary,	Friedrich	von	Gentz.	Gentz	was	an	intelligent,
conservative	and	thoroughly	venal	man	of	letters—a	kind	of	Central	European
Edmund	Burke	gone	wrong—who	had	acquired	the	habit	of	selling	the	influence
he	had	in	Vienna	for	cash	long	before	he	came	into	contact	with	the	Rothschilds.
Indeed,	for	a	time	it	was	David	Parish	whom	he	regarded	as	“the	matador,	the
pearl	of	the	merchant	class	of	all	Christendom”—a	view	which	was	not
unrelated	to	the	100,000	gulden	stake	Parish	had	given	him	in	the	1818	Austrian
loan.	It	did	not	take	the	Rothschilds	long	to	purchase	Gentz’s	fickle	allegiance.
After	an	initial	encounter	in	Frankfurt,	he,	Carl	
and	Salomon	met	at	Aix	in	1818.
On	October	27	Gentz	recorded	in	his	diary	that	Salomon	had	handed	him	800
ducats,	supposedly	the	proceeds	of	a	successful	speculation	in	British	stocks.	A
few	days	later	there	were	more	“pleasant	financial	dealing	with	the	brothers.”
Gentz	was	soon	paying	regular	visits	to	his	new	friends,	whose	apparently
instinctive	ability	to	make	money	deeply	impressed	him.	He	had	regular	business
dealings	with	Salomon	thereafter:	a	minor	transaction	in	late	1820,	a	small	loan
at	Laibach	in	1821,	a	share	in	the	Neapolitan	loan	of	the	same	year	which	earned
him	5,000	gulden	within	a	year.	His	diaries	in	this	period	make	repeated
references	to	“very	agreeable	communications”	from	Salomon;	“important
financial	arrangements”	with	him;	“a	proof	of	real	friendship”	over	breakfast;
“matters	which,	although	not	so	elevated	[as	diplomacy],	were	far	more
pleasant”;	and	“highly	welcome	financial	transactions	with	the	excellent
Rothschild.”	The	pattern	continued	throughout	the	decade.	In	1829	Salomon	lent
Gentz	2,000	gulden	“with	the	most	amiable	readiness,”	bringing	his	total	debts
to	Salomon	and	other	bankers	to	over	30,000	gulden.	To	Gentz,	such	loans	were
to	be	regarded	as	“donations	pure	and	simple.”	Indeed,	according	to	one	account,
Salomon	finally	dispensed	with	the	fiction	that	the	money	would	ever	be	repaid
by	paying	Gentz	an	annual	retainer,	though	this	did	not	prevent	Gentz	from
pleading	for	yet	another	loan	of	4,500	gulden	from	Salomon,	and	gratefully
settling	for	500	gulden	to	tide	him	over.
Gentz	performed	a	number	of	valuable	services	in	return	for	his	money:
supplying	news	and	facilitating	access	to	Metternich,	for	example.	In	addition,

--- Page 225 ---
he	was	responsible	for	the	Rothschilds’	first	real	foray	into	public	relations.	At	a
time	when	the	brothers	were	the	objects	of	an	increasing	volume	of	negative
comment	in	the	press,	an	experienced	and	politically	influential	journalist	like
Gentz	was	a	useful	ally.	In	1821	he	wrote	twice	to	the	editor	of	the	
Allgemeine
Zeitung
	to	express	his	“grave	dissatisfaction”	about	recent	articles	by	the	paper’s
Frankfurt	correspondent	which	had	been	critical	of	the	Rothschilds.	“The
constant	attacks	upon	the	House	of	Rothschild,”	he	argued,	“invariably,	and
sometimes	in	the	most	outrageous	manner,	reflect	upon	the	Austrian	government
by	necessary	implication,	since,	as	everybody	knows,	it	is	transacting	important
financial	matters	with	that	House,	which	is	not	only	unimpeachable,	but	is
honourable	and	thoroughly	respectable.”	Facing	the	threat	of	a	ban	throughout
Austrian	territory,	the	editor	of	the	newspaper	was	obliged	to	“promise	not	to
accept	.	.	.	anything	in	future	relating	to	the	value	of	Austrian	public	securities,
or	
anything	whatever
	relating	to	the	House	of	Rothschild	(at	least	affecting	its
relations	with	Austria).”	When	Salomon	heard	that	he	had	been	awarded	a
Russian	decoration	in	1822,	he	immediately	asked	Gentz	to	arrange	for	a
newspaper	article	on	the	subject.	Four	years	later,	at	Salomon’s	request,	Gentz
himself	put	pen	to	paper,	writing	the	first	“official”	account	of	the	family’s
history—or	,	as	he	described	it,	an	attempt	“briefly	and	I	hope	not	infelicitously
to	explain	the	phenomenon	of	the	greatness	of	this	House.”	After	Gentz	had	read
it	to	one	of	Salomon’s	senior	clerks	and	received	his	“actual	pay”	from	Salomon,
it	was	published	in	the	Brockhaus	
Encyclopaedia
.	These	were	the	first
Rothschild	attempts	to	exert	some	influence	on	a	generally	hostile	press,	and	far
from	the	last.	In	1831,	with	Gentz’s	influence	waning,	Salomon	made	overtures
to	the	satirist	Saphir	in	the	hope	of	winning	his	services	as	a	pro-Austrian—and
implicitly	also	pro-Rothschild—publicist.
Money	Makes	Money
The	evidence	that	the	Rothschilds	established	a	network	of	private	financial
relationships	with	key	public	figures	in	Restoration	Europe	is	therefore
compelling.	Yet	the	conspiracy	theorists	of	this	and	later	periods	misunderstood
the	role	of	such	relationships	when	they	portrayed	them	as	the	key	to	Rothschild
power.	The	image	of	the	Rothschilds	at	the	centre	of	a	web	of	“corruption”
would	become	a	recurrent	one	in	the	years	after	1830.	But	it	was	not,	in	reality,
the	bribes,	loans	and	other	favours	they	bestowed	on	men	like	Metternich	which
made	them	the	dominant	force	in	international	finance	after	1815.	It	was	the
sheer	scale—and	sophistication—of	their	operations.
In	1822	their	old	rival	Simon	Moritz	von	Bethmann	“heard	from	a	reliable

--- Page 226 ---
source	that	Salomon	Rothschild	has	stated	that	the	annual	balance-sheet	of	the	5
brothers	showed	a	net	profit	of	6	million	gulden.”	As	he	observed,	“This	is
certainly	a	case	where	the	English	proverb	applies:	‘Money	makes	money.’
Having	regard	to	their	industry	and	judgement,	we	may	expect	their	business	to
continue	to	flourish;	indeed,	one	hopes	so,	since	the	overthrow	of	this	Colossus
would	be	terrible.”	The	evidence	now	available	from	the	firm’s	accounts	amply
confirms	this	judgement.	In	1815	the	combined	capital	of	the	Rothschild	houses
in	Frankfurt	and	London	was	at	most	£500,000.	In	1818	the	figure	was
£1,772,000;	in	1825	£4,082,000;	and	in	1828	£4,330,333.	The	equivalent	figures
for	the	Rothschilds’	nearest	rival,	Baring	Brothers,	were	£374,365	in	1815,
£429,318	in	1818,	£452,654	seven	years	later	and	£309,803	in	1828.	In	other
words,	having	been	on	a	more	or	less	equal	footing	with	Barings	in	1815,	the
Rothschilds’	resources	had	grown	to	be	more	than	ten	times	greater	than	their
principal	competitor’s	in	as	many	years.	While	Barings’	capital	had	actually
declined	in	size,	the	Rothschilds	had	increased	theirs	by	a	factor	of	eight.	These
are	astonishing	figures.
The	explanation	for	this	disparity	is	not	just	that	the	Rothschilds	made	bigger
profits.	Just	as	importantly,	they	ploughed	the	bulk	of	these	profits	back	into	the
business.	Here,	the	contrast	with	Barings,	which	tended	to	distribute	profits	to
the	partners	(even	in	years	when	the	bank	made	a	loss)	rather	than	allowing
capital	to	accumulate,	is	impressive.	Nor	did	the	Rothschilds	lose	momentum	in
the	succeeding	years.	In	1836—the	next	time	the	partners	met	to	settle	accounts
and	renew	their	contractual	agreement—the	capital	had	increased	again	to
£6,007,707.	Such	figures	as	are	available	for	the	profits	of	the	individual	houses
in	this	period	confirm	the	broad	impression	of	rapid	and	sustained	growth.	Even
in	the	relatively	sluggish	years	between	1825	and	1828,	the	Paris	house	alone
made	profits	totalling	£414,000.	Between	1823	and	1829	the	profits	of	the
Naples	house	totalled	7,390,742	ducats	(£924,000).
These	figures	explain	the	dominance	of	the	Rothschilds	on	the	international
capital	market	in	the	1820s;	perhaps	the	only	thing	that	is	surprising	is	that	they
were	not	more	dominant.	Between	1818	and	1832	it	has	been	estimated	that	N.
M.	Rothschild	accounted	for	seven	out	of	twenty-six	loans	contracted	by	foreign
governments	in	London,	and	roughly	38	per	cent	(£37.6	million)	of	their	total
value.	This	was	more	than	twice	the	value	of	their	nearest	rivals,	B.	A.
Goldschmidt.	Moreover,	the	bank’s	own	figures	suggest	that	this	may	be	an
underestimate:	according	to	Ayer,	the	value	of	loans	issued	by	Nathan	in	this
period	was	in	fact	£86	million.	The	equivalent	total	for	loans	issued	by	the

--- Page 227 ---
Frankfurt	house	in	this	period	
was	28	million	gulden	(
c
.	£2.5	million).	In	Paris,
James	came	to	exercise	a	near	monopoly	over	French	government	finance,
issuing	seven	loans	with	a	nominal	capital	of	1.5	billion	francs	(£60	million)
between	1823	and	1847.
In	a	sense	therefore	the	French	journalist	Alexandre	Weill	was	not
exaggerating	when,	looking	back	in	1844,	he	declared:
The	house	of	Rotschild	[
sic
]	is	merely	a	necessary	consequence	of	the	principle
of	state	which	has	governed	Europe	since	1815;	if	it	had	not	been	a	Rotschild,	it
would	simply	have	been	someone	else	.	.	.	it	is	this	system	.	.	.	dominant
throughout	Europe,	which	has	created,	produced	and	elevated	the	house	of
Rotschild	.	.	.	Rotschild	reigns	and	governs	on	the	bourse	and	in	all	the	cabinets	.
.	.
This	was	too	deterministic	a	view,	of	course.	There	had	been	moments	in	the
1820s	when	the	“principles”	governing	the	European	states	had	come	close	to
calling	the	Rothschilds	back	out	of	existence,	and	it	is	hard	to	imagine	any	other
contemporary	financier	easily	taking	their	place.	But	Weill	was	closer	to	the
mark	than	Richelieu:	if	there	was	a	sixth	great	power	in	the	1820s,	it	was	no
longer	Barings,	but	Rothschilds.	Small	wonder	there	was	such	a	hue	and	cry
about	them.

--- Page 228 ---
SIX
Amschel’s	Garden
Oh	what	joy	to	be	in	the	open	air
and	draw	breath	easily!
Here	alone,	here	alone	there’s	life.
.	.	.	Speak	softly!	Restrain	yourselves!
There	are	ears	and	eyes	upon	us.
—FIDELIO
,	ACT	1,	FINALE
	
	
The	Jew,	who	may	have	no	rights	in	the	smallest	German	states,	decides	the	fate	of
Europe.
—BRUNO	BAUER
	
	
	
	
Nothing	symbolised	the	Rothschilds’	escape	from	the	gloomy	confines	of	the
Frankfurt	ghetto	better	than	their	acquisition	of	real	estate	outside	it.	In	1815
virtually	all	the	family’s	wealth	was	held	in	the	form	of	paper—bonds	and	other
securities—and	precious	metal.	Such	“immovable	property”	as	they	possessed
was	all	in	Frankfurt;	everywhere	else,	the	brothers	still	lived	in	rented
accommodation.	Inside	the	old	Judengasse,	there	was	of	course	the	old
Stammhaus
	“zum	grünen	Schild”	where	the	brothers	had	grown	up.	It	was	a
matter	of	public	curiosity	that	their	mother	Gutle	continued	to	live	there	until	the
end	of	her	life;	her	sons,	however,	felt	no	such	attachment.	By	1817	Carl	had	had
enough	of	his	old	room	on	the	third	floor	of	his	mother’s	house:	“Of	course,	you
will	say	that	in	the	ghetto	we	slept	on	the	fourth	floor.	Yes,	but	one	is	getting	old.
Also	[it	is	galling]	that	one	should	make	much	money	and	live	a	dog’s	life	while

--- Page 229 ---
others	who	have	not	a	tenth	of	our	fortune	live	like	princes.”	By	this	time	the
first	steps	out	of	the	Judengasse	had	already	been	taken.	Although	the	plot	they
had	acquired	in	1809-10	for	their	new	offices	was	technically	in	the	Judengasse,
the	sandstone	neo-classical	building	they	built	there	had	its	entrance	in	the
Fahrgasse,	the	main	thoroughfare	off	which	the	Judengasse	ran.	(In	the	absence
of	its	old	gates,	the	Judengasse	itself	was	now	increasingly	referred	to	as	the
Bornheimer	Strasse.)	Salomon	had	already	been	given	permission	to	move	his
residence	to	a	house	in	the	Schäfergasse	in	1807;	but	the	real	escape	came	when
Amschel	bought	a	house	in	the	suburbs	on	the	road	to	Bockenheim	in	1811	(10
Bockenheimer	Landstrasse).	For	the	first	time,	he	found	himself	living	in	fresh
air.
Almost	as	soon	as	he	had	acquired	the	house,	Amschel	became	consumed
with	
the	desire	to	buy	the	garden	next	to	it.	It	should	be	stressed	that	the	object
of	his	desire	was	no	country	estate,	merely	a	small	suburban	plot	of	at	most	a
few	acres,	similar	to	those	owned	by	Gentile	banking	families	like	the
Bethmanns	and	the	Gontards.	Nor	was	Amschel	merely	bidding	for	social	status.
He	seems	genuinely	to	have	fallen	in	love	with	the	garden.	After	all,	he	had
spent	virtually	all	of	his	forty-two	years	cooped	up	in	the	ghetto,	working,	eating
and	sleeping	in	its	cramped	and	dingy	rooms,	walking	up	and	down	its	crowded
and	pungent	thoroughfare.	It	is	not	easy	for	a	modern	reader	to	imagine	how
intoxicating	fresh	air	and	vegetation	were	to	him.	On	a	spring	night	in	1815—in
an	act	as	pregnant	with	emancipatory	symbolism	as	the	prisoners’	release	into
the	“free	air”	in	Beethoven’s	
Fidelio
	(1805)—he	decided	to	sleep	there.	He
described	the	experience	in	an	excited	and	moving	postscript	to	his	brother	Carl:
“Dear	Carl,	I	am	sleeping	in	the	garden.	If	God	allows	that	the	accounts	work
out	as	you	and	I	want	them	to,	I	will	buy	it	.	.	.	There	is	so	much	space	that	you,
God	willing,	and	the	whole	family	can	comfortably	live	in	it.”	As	that	implied,
Amschel	regarded	his	purchase	of	the	garden	as	dependent	on	the	outcome	of	the
brothers’	business	activities,	which	Napoleon’s	return	from	Elba	just	weeks
before	had	thrown	into	turmoil.	He	was	also	torn	between	his	love	of	open	space
and	his	brother	Carl’s	preference	for	a	large	and	respectable	town	house	in	which
visiting	dignitaries	could	be	entertained.	Fortunately	for	Amschel,	Nathan
categorically	rejected	Carl’s	arguments	as	“a	lot	of	nonsense,”	but	accepted	the
need	for	a	garden	for	the	sake	of	Amschel’s	health.	By	April	1816	part	of	the
garden	had	been	bought	and	Amschel	was	bidding	to	add	a	further	two-thirds	of
an	acre	to	it.	Now	when	he	slept	outside—in	a	garden	he	could	call	his	own—it
was	“like	paradise.”	Finally,	more	than	a	year	after	his	first	night	under	the	stars,

--- Page 230 ---
he	bought	the	remainder.	“From	today	onwards	the	garden	belongs	to	me	and	to
my	dear	brothers,”	he	wrote	exultantly.	“There	is	therefore	no	need	to	remind
you	of	what	you	could	contribute	to	make	it	more	beautiful.	I	would	not	be	in	the
least	surprised	if	Salomon	were	to	buy	all	sorts	of	seeds	and	plants	at	the	very
first	opportunity,	as	this	garden	will	be	inherited	by	the	family	Rothschild.”
As	this	illustrates,	Amschel	insisted	that	he	had	bought	the	garden	for	the
family	as	a	whole,	a	sense	of	collective	experiment	which	his	brothers	were
happy	to	encourage,	sending	him	the	seeds	and	plants	he	asked	for	(including
African	seeds	from	Alexander	von	Humboldt)	and	agreeing	to	his	plans	to
enlarge	the	plot	or	build	greenhouses.	Their	mother	Gutle	also	made	frequent
visits	there.	But	there	was	little	doubt	that	it	was	really	Amschel’s	garden—a
place	where	he	could	potter,	study	and	sleep,	in	peace	and	in	fresh	air.
Revealingly,	he	could	not	help	regarding	it	as	a	personal	indulgence—hence	his
need	to	seek	his	brothers’	approval	for	what	were	often	quite	trivial	expenditures,
and	his	almost	apologetic	promises	to	earn	the	money	back	in	business.	After
much	agonising	about	the	cost,	he	added	a	greenhouse	and	a	winter	garden	and,
during	the	1820s,	had	the	house	substantially	enlarged	and	improved	in	the	neo-
classical	style	by	the	architect	Friedrich	Rumpf.	Later	it	acquired	a	pond,	a
fountain	and	even	a	medieval	folly—an	early	(and	rare)	Rothschild	venture	into
the	romantic	genre.
Amschel’s	garden	was	the	first	of	many	Rothschild	gardens;	and	its	story	does
much	to	illuminate	the	family’s	enduring	passion	for	horticulture.	Its
significance	was	partly	religious:	now	the	Tabernacles	feast	could	be	celebrated
properly	in	a	tent	amid	the	greenery.	But	the	full	meaning	of	Amschel’s	passion
for	what	was,	by	
later	Rothschild	standards,	a	tiny	patch	of	land	becomes
manifest	when	his	purchase	is	set	in	its	political	context.	For,	as	we	shall	see,	the
period	after	1814	saw	a	concerted	effort	by	the	re-established	Frankfurt
authorities	once	again	to	remove	the	civil	rights	which	had	been	won	by	the
Jewish	community	from	Napoleon’s	Prince-Primate	Dalberg.	Under	the	terms	of
the	old	statute	governing	the	position	of	Jews,	not	only	had	the	ownership	of
property	outside	the	Judengasse	been	forbidden;	Jews	had	even	been	barred	from
walking	in	public	gardens.	Amschel	therefore	fretted	that	the	Senate	would
either	prevent	his	purchase	of	the	garden	altogether,	or	compel	him	to	relinquish
it	if	the	purchase	went	ahead—anxieties	which	were	only	exacerbated	by	the
appearance	of	abusive	crowds	outside	the	garden	at	the	time	of	the	“Hep”	riots.
When	he	was	allowed	to	keep	it,	he	still	suspected	“a	kind	of	bribe”	to	keep	him
from	leaving	Frankfurt,	or	even	a	sop	to	avoid	more	general	concessions	to	the

--- Page 231 ---
Jewish	community	as	a	whole.	It	became,	in	short,	a	symbol	of	the	much	bigger
question	of	Jewish	emancipation.	Something	of	its	significance	in	this	regard	can
be	inferred	from	a	guidebook	description	from	the	mid-1830s,	which	described
the	garden	in	semi-satirical	terms:
The	flowers	are	glittering	in	gold	and	the	beds	are	fertilised	with	crown	thalers,
the	summer	houses	are	well	papered	with	Rothschild	bonds	.	.	.	A	magnificent
wealth	of	foreign	flora	spreads	across	the	garden	and	each	flower	twinkles	with
ducats	from	Kremnitz	rather	than	with	leaves;	golden	figures	glow	from	within
the	buds	.	.	.	To	my	mind,	in	his	garden	Amschel	von	Rothschild	resembles	a
lord	in	his	seraglio.
“Good	Jews”
It	would,	of	course,	have	been	a	good	deal	easier	for	Amschel	to	have	acquired
his	garden	if	he	and	his	brothers	had	converted	to	Christianity.	The	fact	that	they
did	not	is	of	the	greatest	significance	for	the	history	of	both	the	family	and	the
firm.	As	Ludwig	Börne	observed	with	grudging	admiration,	they	had
chosen	the	surest	means	of	avoiding	the	ridicule	that	attaches	to	so	many
baronised	millionaire	families	of	the	Old	Testament:	they	have	declined	the	holy
water	of	Christianity.	Baptism	is	now	the	order	of	the	day	among	rich	Jews,	and
the	gospel	that	was	preached	in	vain	to	the	poor	of	Judaea	now	flourishes	among
the	wealthy.
The	Rothschilds,	however,	remained	resolutely	Jewish—a	fact	which	also
impressed	Disraeli,	himself	(like	Börne)	born	a	Jew.	Disraeli’s	Younger	Sidonia
in	
Coningsby
—a	character	partly	inspired	by	Lionel—is	“as	firm	in	his
adherence	to	the	code	of	the	great	Legislator	as	if	the	trumpet	still	sounded	on
Sinai	.	.	.	proud	of	his	origin,	and	confident	in	the	future	of	his	kind.”	Eva	(a
character	based	in	part	on	Carl’s	daughter	Charlotte)	declares	in	
Tancred:
	“I	will
never	become	a	Christian!”
Such	a	defiant	repudiation	of	conversion	could	well	have	come	from	a	real
Rothschild.	“I	am	a	Jew	in	the	depths	in	my	heart,”	wrote	Carl	in	1814,
commenting	on	the	extent	to	which	Jewish	families	in	Hamburg	were	converting
to	Christianity.	When	he	encountered	the	same	thing	in	Berlin	two	years	later,	he
was	scornful:	“I	could	marry	the	richest	and	most	beautiful	girl	in	Berlin;	but	I
am	not	going	to	marry	her	for	all	the	world	because,	here	in	Berlin,	if	[one	is]
not	converted	[then]	one	has	a	converted	brother	or	sister-in-law	.	.	.	We	have
made	our	fortune	as	Jews	
and	we	want	nothing	to	do	with	such	people	.	.	.	I

--- Page 232 ---
prefer	not	to	mix	with	the	
meshumed
	[converted]	families.”	The	brothers
regarded	the	Bavarian	banker	Adolph	d’Eichthal	with	considerable	suspicion
precisely	because	he	was	a	convert	(a	mere	“goy”	would	have	been	less
objectionable).	As	James	put	it,	“It	is	a	bad	thing	when	one	has	to	deal	with	an
apostate.”	When	the	Hamburg	banker	Oppenheim	had	his	children	baptised	in
1818,	the	Rothschilds	were	scandalised.	“The	only	reason	I	find	these	people
contemptible,”	Carl	sneered,	“is	that	when	they	convert	to	Christianity	they
adopt	only	what	is	bad	but	nothing	that	is	good	in	it.”	By	converting,	Oppenheim
had	“brought	about	a	revolution	in	Hamburg”:	“He	is	sorry	about	it.	He	was
weeping	when	I	left	.	.	.	after	speaking	to	him	about	it	.	.	.	However,	I	foresee
that	Oppenheim’s	lead	will	be	followed.	Well,	we	are	no	custodians	of	others’
souls.	I	will	remain	what	I	am,	and	my	children	too	.	.	.”
The	brothers	saw	themselves	as	“role	models”	in	this	regard.	The	more	they
could	achieve	socially	without	converting,	the	weaker	the	arguments	for
conversion	would	seem,	given	that	the	majority	of	conversions	were	a	response
to	continuing	legal	discrimination	against	Jews.	“I	am	quite	ready	to	believe	that
we	have	enough	money	to	last	us	all	our	life,”	wrote	James	in	1816.	“But	we	are
still	young	and	we	want	to	work.	And	[as]	much	for	the	sake	of	our	prestige	as
Jews	as	for	any	other	reason.”	This	was	the	way	Amschel	saw	Nathan’s
appointment	as	Austrian	consul	in	London.	“Though	it	may	mean	nothing	to
you,”	he	wrote,	“it	serves	the	Jewish	interest.	You	will	prevent	the	apostasy	of
quite	a	few	Vienna	Jews.”	When	a	newspaper	reported	that	Salomon	himself	had
been	baptised,	he	hastened	to	publish	a	denial.	When	the	allegation	was	repeated
in	a	French	encyclopaedia	fourteen	years	later,	he	insisted	it	be	corrected	in	all
subsequent	editions.
However,	while	their	adherence	to	Judaism	was	unbending,	the	brothers	were
far	from	uniformly	strict	in	their	religious	observance.	In	Frankfurt,	Amschel
retained	his	“old-Hebrew	customs	and	habits,”	invariably	eschewing	work	on	the
Sabbath,	keeping	kosher	strictly	and	fasting	and	feasting	on	the	appropriate	holy
days.	At	banquets,	noted	a	contemporary	journal,	he	sat	“in	true	penance,	as	he
never	touches	any	viands	or	dishes	that	have	not	been	cleansed	or	prepared	in	the
Jewish	fashion.	This	strict	and	unaffected	observance	of	the	religious	injunctions
of	his	faith	is	greatly	to	his	honour;	he	is	regarded	as	the	most	religious	Jew	in
Frankfurt.”	By	the	1840s	he	had	built	a	synagogue	in	his	own	house.	Salomon
always	ate	his	own	specially	prepared	kosher	food,	even	when	he	invited
Austrian	grandees	like	the	Metternichs	to	dine	with	him;	and	refused	to	write
letters	on	the	Sabbath	and	holy	days.

--- Page 233 ---
Their	brother	Nathan	too	was	mindful	of	his	religious	duties.	We	know	that
even	when	he	was	in	Manchester,	where	the	majority	of	Jews	were	relatively
poor	shop-keepers	and	pedlars,	Nathan	“conformed	to	all	the	rites	and
ceremonies	of	our	faith,	his	dinner	being	cooked	by	a	Jewess	and	taken	to	him	at
his	warehouse	every	day”	and	the	
shamas
	“bringing	him	the	palm	branch	and
citron	daily	during	the	Tabernacle	festival.”
1
	When	Prince	Pückler	tried	to
engage	him	in	a	religious	argument,	he	found	Nathan	unexpectedly	well
informed,	reflecting	afterwards	that	he	and	“his	co	religionists	are	of	older
religious	nobility	than	we	Christians;	they	are	the	true	aristocrats	in	this	sphere.”
Nathan’s	wife	Hannah	later	subscribed	to	the	Holy	Society	of	the	House	of
Learning	of	the	Ashkenazim	in	London	(Hevrah	Kadisha	Beit	Ha-Midrash
Ashkenazim	Be-London),	a	thoroughly	Orthodox	institution,	and	kept	a	
close
watch	on	her	children’s	religious	conduct.	When	he	went	up	to	Cambridge	in
1837	Mayer	was	warned	to	“avoid	everything	possible	in	infringing	upon	our
religious	duties,”	specifically,	to	“abstain	from	these	indulgencies	such	as	riding
on	Horseback	on	Saturdays”	and	to	refuse	to	attend	chapel	services	in	college;
while	his	brother	Nat	felt	the	need	to	apologise	profusely	to	her	for	missing	the
Day	of	Atonement	during	a	trip	to	Switzerland	four	years	later.	James	too	always
kept	a	
mahzor
	(prayer	book	for	the	holidays)	in	his	office.	When	a	new	baby	boy
was	circumcised,	James	“thank[ed]	God	.	.	.	we	have	one	more	good	Jew	in	the
family.”
However,	the	younger	brothers	were	regarded	by	Amschel	as	lapsing
dangerously	in	a	number	of	respects.	When	the	need	arose,	Nathan,	Carl	and
James	all	read	and	wrote	business	letters	on	the	Sabbath—covertly	if	they
happened	to	be	with	Amschel.	And	one	by	one	they	abandoned	the	strict	kosher
diet	(though	not	completely:	the	English	family	still	avoided	pork).	When	Carl
was	trying	to	find	himself	a	wife	in	1814,	Amschel	and	Salomon	objected	to	his
choice	of	Adelheid	Herz	on	the	ground	that	her	family	did	not	keep	kosher.	The
issue	was	the	source	of	constant	arguments.	“As	to	piety,”	wrote	Carl	in	response
to	yet	another	complaint	on	the	subject	from	Amschel,	“when	I	am	old	I	will	be
pious	too.	In	my	heart	I	am	nothing	but	a	Jew.	I	don’t	wish	to	take	care	of	your
soul,	but	you	wrote	me	once	that	I	should	find	means	to	enable	you	to	come
occasionally	to	my	house	to	eat	there.	That	[the	lack	of	kosher	food]	does	not
mean	that	I	am	not	pious.”	In	1814	James	complained	bitterly	from	Berlin:	“I	am
really	fed	up	with	the	food	here,	I	think	it	is	the	worst	one	could	possibly	have
anywhere.	[Amschel]	is	still	concerned	about	eating	only	kosher	food,	as	he	is
still	pious	and	he	knows	that	I	am	not;	yet	he	will	insist	that	I	eat	with	him.”

--- Page 234 ---
Some	years	later	Heine	joked	that	although	James	had	“not	gone	over	to	the
Christian	Church,”	he	had	“gone	over	to	Christian	cooking.”	The	younger
brothers	also	abandoned	all	sartorial	vestiges	of	the	ghetto.
The	religious	differences	between—and	within—branches	of	the	family	grew
more	acute	in	the	next	generation.	In	London,	Nathan’s	elder	children	continued
to	worship	more	or	less	as	their	parents	had	done.	Although	not	deeply	spiritual,
they	were	fundamentally	conservative	in	their	habits	of	worship.	Indeed,	they
found	their	uncle’s	family	in	Paris	rather	too	lax.	Lionel	pointedly	refused	to
work	when	he	was	in	Paris	for	Passover	in	1829,	though	James	continued	to
write	letters	as	usual.	Nat	too,	despite	sharing	his	uncle’s	aversion	to	kosher
food,
2
	found	it	surprising	that	during	Passover	“although	we	go	to	
shul
	and	eat
matzot
,	in	Paris	it	is	impossible	to	shut	up	shop.”	The	ascendancy	of	the	Reform
movement	in	Frankfurt	(which	essentially	sought	to	remodel	the	rabbinate	and
Jewish	forms	of	worship	along	Protestant	lines)	perturbed	them	too,	accustomed
as	they	were	to	Amschel’s	old-fashioned	ways.	“They	have	a	new	Rabbi	here
who	preaches	uncommonly	well,”	reported	Anthony	ambivalently	in	1844.	“He
preached	on	Friday	for	the	first	time,	I	did	not	like	anything	that	he	said—but
perhaps	it	was	the	fault	of	the	Reformers	here.	They	go	a	good	deal	further	than
they	do	in	England.	I	should	like	to	hear	a	man	who	could	preach	as	well	in
England	.	.	.	I	was	very	disquieted	with	the	whole	service.”
The	influence	of	Reform	on	Carl’s	daughter	Charlotte	was	strong,	judging	by
the	way	she	later	critically	compared	Jewish	practices	in	England	with	those	of
some	Christian	denominations.	Yet	when	her	brother	Wilhelm	Carl	went	to	the
other	extreme,	outdoing	even	Amschel	in	his	Orthodoxy,	the	English	Rothschilds
were	
even	more	disconcerted.	His	aunt	Hannah	reported	to	Lionel	on	his
condition	rather	as	if	“his	enthusiasm	in	observing	all	the	stricter	duties	of	the
Jewish	religion”	were	a	sign	of	possible	mental	imbalance:
I	have	seen	him	twice,	he	came	to	his	Brother	one	Evening	and	remained	an
hour,	and	as	much	as	propriety	allowed	I	remarked	his	manner	&c.	which	is	very
rational	and	not	in	any	way	different	from	others	of	his	age	and	situation,
tranquil	and	civil,	plain	in	his	dress[,]	not	conspicuous	either	for	much	attention
to	it	.	.	.	There	is	nothing	in	my	opinion	to	fear,	that	this	religious	devotion	will
be	followed	by	fanaticism.	I	saw	him	again	at	Baron	A.	de	Rothschild[’s]	.	.	.	he
accompanied	us	to	look	at	the	same	things	and	took	as	much	interest	in	all	as	any
of	us	.	.	.	[H]e	said,	I	am	determined	to	be	firm	and	will	always	be	so.	Should	he
be	fortunate	to	find	proper	and	sensible	Instructors,	no	ill	can	be	anticipated	from

--- Page 235 ---
his	present	good	principles.
3
When	Amschel	withdrew	a	substantial	donation	(150,000	gulden)	intended	to
finance	the	building	of	a	new	synagogue	because	“they	[the	Jewish	community’s
board]	have	chosen	a	new	[deputy]	Rabbi	for	the	synagogue	who	is	not	an
Orthodox	one,”	Anthony	could	only	shake	his	head:	“You	have	no	idea	what	a
parcel	of	Donkeys	.	.	.	the	Jews	are	here.”
To	most	members	of	the	family,	the	conflicts	between	Reformers	and
Orthodox	Jews—which	had	only	a	muted	echo	in	England—were	an	unwelcome
nuisance.	Internecine	theological	and	liturgical	controversies	held	little	interest
for	them;	and	any	weakening	of	Jewish	unity	struck	them	as	self-defeating	in	a
hostile	world.	Thus	Mayer	Amschel’s	sons	and	grandsons	followed	his	example
in	accepting	lay	offices	within	their	communities,	but	rarely	intervened	in
religious	disputes,	save	to	appeal	for	harmony.	Nathan	was	
Parnass
	(warden)	of
the	Great	Synagogue	in	Duke	Place,	and	was	almost	certainly	behind	a	scheme
for	“an	organisation	of	Jewish	charity”	to	combine	the	efforts	of	the	three	major
Ashkenazi	synagogues	of	the	metropolis	(the	Great,	the	Hambro’	and	the	New)
—a	move	foreshadowing	the	later	emergence	of	the	United	Synagogue.	For	the
Rothschilds,	religious	activism	was	primarily	about	giving	practical,	material
assistance	to	a	stable	Jewish	community—not	defining	the	community,	much
less	the	nature	of	its	faith,	which	they	tended	to	regard	as	an	immutable	given.
Of	course,	the	relationship	between	the	Rothschilds	and	the	wider,	poorer
Jewish	community	has	long	been	the	subject	of	myths	and	jokes.	In	the	classic
anecdotes	on	the	subject	a	stereotyped	“Rothschild”	is	the	target	for	a	range	of
ingenious	bids	for	alms	from	
Schnorrer
—those	distinctively	unabashed
scroungers	and	spongers	of	the	folkloric	Jewish	community.	“Rothschild”	is
their	long-suffering	but	ultimately	indulgent	victim,	sometimes	even	entering
into	the	spirit	of	the	game—as	when	a	begging	letter	thrown	through	a	window
onto	the	dinner	table	is	thrown	back	with	a	coin.	(“Placiert”—“sold”—mutters
Rothschild	to	himself,	as	if	selling	a	bond	to	an	investor,	when	he	sees	the
Schnorrer
	catch	the	coin.)
4
	Such	stories—which	continue	to	be	republished	in
anthologies	of	Jewish	humour	today—are	not	entirely	fanciful:	they	are	echoes
of	the	era	when	the	Rothschilds,	because	of	their	great	wealth	and	apparent
political	power,	had	a	mythic,	talismanic	status	in	the	eyes	of	other	Jews:	not
only	“the	Jews	of	the	Kings”	but	also	the	“Kings	of	the	Jews”—at	once	exalted
by	their	wealth,
5
	and	yet	mindful	of	their	own	lowly	origins.	As	
such,	they	were
the	focus	of	all	kinds	of	aspiration,	ranging	from	the	mercenary	to	the	visionary.

--- Page 236 ---
The	Rothschild	archives	contain	numerous	unsolicited	letters	requesting
assistance	from	Jews	and	Jewish	communities	all	over	the	world:	the	Dublin
Hebrew	Congregation;	the	friends	of	a	Jewish	doctor	in	reduced	circumstances;
the	St	Alban’s	Place	Synagogue;	the	New	Hebrew	Congregation	at	Liverpool.
These	were	the	real	
Schnorrer
—rarely	the	cocky	figures	of	legend,	more	often
humble	supplicants.
Because	copies	of	outgoing	correspondence	were	either	not	kept	or
subsequently	destroyed	at	New	Court,	it	is	far	from	easy	to	tell	which	of	these
pleas	were	heeded,	and	therefore	even	harder	to	detect	a	pattern	in	Rothschild
charitability.	We	know	that	Nathan	subscribed	to	a	number	of	charities	for	the
poor	and	sick:	the	Bread,	Meat	and	Coal	Society	(Meshebat	Naphesh);	the	Jews’
Hospital	(Nevé	Zedek)	at	Mile	End,	of	which	he	was	vice-president	and	later
president;	the	Holy	Society	for	the	Assistance	of	the	Poor	for	the	Needs	of	the
Sabbath	in	London;	the	charitable	fund	of	the	Great	Synagogue,	and	the	Bethnal
Green	Society	for	the	Relief	of	the	Sick	Poor.	He	also	became	a	Governor	of	the
London	Hospital,	which	had	a	tradition	of	providing	for	Jewish	patients,	in	1826.
But	education	seems	to	have	been	his	main	charitable	interest.	He	subscribed	to
the	Talmud	Torah	in	London	Society	in	1820	and	a	year	later	donated	1,000
guilders	to	a	society	for	the	education	of	poor	Dutch	Jews.	In	particular,	he
supported	the	Jews’	Free	School,	donating	10	guineas	to	the	building	fund	in
1817	and	helping	to	pay	for	the	new	schoolhouse	in	Bell	Lane,	Spitalfields.	The
school	was	“a	charity	he	took	so	decided	an	interest	in”	that	his	widow	made	a
further	substantial	donation	to	mark	the	third	anniversary	of	his	death.	It	has
been	calculated	that	the	firm	of	N.	M.	Rothschild	&	Sons	gave	the	school	an
average	of	£9,500	a	year	throughout	the	nineteenth	century,	a	figure	which	is
more	than	doubled	when	individual	family	members’	benefactions	are	added.
In	all	this,	Nathan	may	have	been	consciously	following	his	father’s	example;
but	he	was	also	falling	in	with	the	priorities	of	his	Cohen	and	Montefiore
relations.	It	was	one	of	his	sisters-in-law	who	made	him	“promise	.	.	.	to	give	to
the	poor”	in	1814;	and	it	was	probably	his	brother-in-law	Joseph	Cohen	who
involved	him	in	the	Jews’	Free	School,	of	which	Hannah	herself	became	a	Life
Governor	in	1821.	When	Lionel	became	a	trustee	of	the	Bread,	Meat	and	Coal
Society,	the	board	was	already	dominated	by	Cohens;	indeed,	his	mother	was
later	described	as	“a	zealous	advocate	of	its	prosperity	&	a	munificent
Contributor	to	its	funds”—not	surprisingly,	as	her	father	had	been	one	of	its
founders.	Another	of	Hannah’s	pet	charities	was	the	Jewish	Lying-in	Charity.	By
the	later	1830s	her	sons	were	actively	involved	in	the	Jews’	Hospital,	of	which

--- Page 237 ---
Lionel	was	president	and	Mayer	later	steward,	and	the	Jews’	Free	School.	At	the
same	time,	they	continued	to	disburse	small	amounts	to	societies	like	the
(Jewish)	Society	for	Relieving	the	Aged	Needy	and,	through	the	Great
Synagogue,	to	unfortunate	individuals	like	a	mother	whose	child	had	a	club-foot.
In	Frankfurt,	Mayer	Amschel’s	legacy	still	made	itself	felt.	Like	his	father,
Amschel	routinely	gave	10	per	cent	of	the	Frankfurt	house’s	running	costs	(not
its	income)	to	the	poor.	And	in	1825	Amschel	and	his	brothers	donated	100,000
gulden	to	the	two	Jewish	insurance	funds	in	Frankfurt	to	build	a	new	hospital	for
the	community	in	the	Reichneigrabenstrasse,	“in	accordance	with	the	wishes	of
their	late	father	.	.	.	[and]	as	a	memorial	to	filial	respect	and	fraternal	harmony.”
Curiously,	James	preferred	to	keep	a	much	lower	profile	within	the	Paris	Jewish
community,	channelling	his	contributions	indirectly	through	Salomon	Alkan,
president	of	Société	de	Secours,	and	Albert	Cohn,	his	sons’	tutor	(and	later	a
leading	light	of	French	Jewry).	In	1836	he	even	stipulated	that	his	donations	to
the	new	synagogue	in	the	rue	Notre-Dame-de-Nazareth	should	be	kept	secret.
At	least	one	contemporary	cartoonist	suggested	that,	having	made	their
millions,	the	Rothschilds	were	indifferent	to	the	plight	of	their	“poorer	co-
religionists”	(a	favourite	phrase).	In	
A	King	bestowing	favors	on	a	Great	Man’s
Friends
	(1824)	(illustration	6.i),	a	group	of	ragged	Jews—labelled	“The	Old
Stock	Reduced”—can	be	seen	to	the	right	of	Nathan	as	he	prepares	to	ascend	in
a	balloon	“to	receive	my	Dividends.”	One	exclaims:	“The	Lord	will	surely	hear
the	
Cries
	of	the	
poor
.”	Another	pleads,	“O!	Look	down	from	heaven	and	behold
that	we	are	become	a	mockery	and	derision	to	be	buffeted	and	reproached.”	A
third	cries:	“O	Lord,	have	mercy	on	us	for	we	are	overwhelmed	with	contempt;
overwhelmed	is	[
sic
]	our	Souls	with	the	Scorn	of	those	who	are	at	ease	and	with
the	contempt	of	the	proud.”	This	accusation	was	unfounded.
Yet	it	is	important	to	stress	that	the	Rothschilds	did	not	confine	their	charitable
activities	exclusively	to	the	Jewish	community.	At	times	of	economic	hardship—
1814	in	Germany,	1830	in	France,	1842	in	Hamburg,	1846	in	Ireland—they
donated	money	to	the	poor	without	religious	distinction.	Nathan	contributed	to	a
number	of	apparently	non-denominational	establishments,	including	the	Society
of	Friends	of	Foreigners	in	Distress	(though	it	is	likely	that	some	of	the
“foreigners”	in	question	were	poor	Jewish	immigrants).	His	children	also	lent
their	support	to	the	London	Orphan	Asylum,	the	London	Philanthropic	Society
and	the	Buckinghamshire	General	Infirmary.	Especially	unexpected	is	the	fact
that	in	1837	either	Hannah	or	Charlotte—more	probably	the	latter—was	“one	of
the	most	liberal	contributors”	to	a	new	Church	of	England	school	at	Ealing	and

--- Page 238 ---
Old	Brentford.	It	was	not	only	Jews	who	applied	for	assistance	to	the
Rothschilds:	the	
Schnorrer
	even	included	the	early	socialist	Robert	Owen	and	a
congregation	of	the	secessionist	Scottish	Free	Church!
6.i:	T.	Jones,
	
A	King
	
bestowing	favors	on	a
	
Great	Man’s	Friends
—Scene	near
the
	
Bank
	
(1824).
	
“A	Heavenly	Good	Deed”:	Emancipation
Although	their	wealth	and	influence	allowed	them	to	achieve	what	was	in	many
respects	a	privileged	social	status,	the	Rothschilds	never	lost	sight	of	the	fact	that
they	and	their	co-religionists	remained	subject	to	a	wide	range	of	discriminatory
laws	and	regulations	after	1815.	They	remembered	Mayer	Amschel’s	injunctions
to	“bring	to	an	end	all	the	work”	which	he	had	begun	“in	the	interest	of	our
people.”	As	a	result,	the	history	of	the	Rothschilds	is	inseparable	from	the
history	of	what	is	somewhat	anachronistically	called	Jewish	“emancipation”:	to
be	precise,	the	gradual	process	whereby	Jews	(with	the	assistance	of	some
sympathetic	Gentiles)	sought	to	achieve	full	legal	equality	in	the	various
European	states.	Though	self-interest	undoubtedly	was	part	of	the	reason	for	the
family’s	sustained	involvement	in	this,	the	principal	motivation	was	a	sense	of

--- Page 239 ---
moral	obligation	to	other	Jews:	a	point	neatly	made	by	Amschel	when	he	ended
a	letter	to	his	brothers	in	1815:	“I	remain	your	brother,	who	wishes	you,	and	me,
and	all	Jews,	all	the	best,	Amschel	Rothschild.”	Those	who	assumed	that
Amschel	was	concerned	to	protect	his	own	position	misunderstood	him.	In	1814
he	urged	Nathan	to	maintain	his	“influence	at	the	English	court	.	.	.	for	two
reasons:	firstly,	in	the	interests	of	the	Jewish	people,	secondly,	in	the	interests	of
the	prestige	of	the	House	of	Rothschild.”	“It	is	.	.	.	good	that	we	own	so	much
money,”	he	wrote	to	Nathan	and	Salomon	three	years	later.	“Thus	we	can	lend
help	to	the	whole	of	Jewry.”
What	were	the	handicaps	under	which	Jews	continued	to	labour	in	Restoration
Europe?	The	situation	was	perhaps	best	in	France,	where	the	restored	Bourbons,
despite	their	devotion	to	Catholicism,	not	only	preserved	the	legal	emancipation
of	Jews	achieved	by	the	Revolution,	but	also	failed	to	renew	the	so-called	
décret
infâme
	
passed	by	Napoleon	in	1808,	which	had	reimposed	various	economic
restrictions.	All	that	formally	remained	was	a	special	oath	which	Jews	had	to
take	in	court,	though	in	practice	they	were	also	largely	excluded	from	political
life	before	1830.	In	Britain,	although	native-born	Jews	were	automatically
British	subjects,	they—along	with	Catholics	and	Non-Conformists	before	1828-
9—were	excluded	from	parliament	(whether	as	voters	or	members),	local
government	and	the	ancient	universities.	On	the	other	hand,	there	were	few
economic	and	social	barriers.
The	position	in	Germany	varied	from	state	to	state.	Prussia	had	the	most
liberal	legislation	following	the	emancipation	edict	of	1812,	which	granted	Jews
equal	legal	rights,	though	in	practice	they	continued	to	be	excluded	from	the
bureaucracy	and	the	officer	corps,	and	after	1822	were	also	excluded	from
schoolteaching	and	municipal	government.	In	Austria,	by	contrast,	little	had
changed	since	the	Tolerance	
Edict	of	1782	(which	had	reduced	economic
restrictions	somewhat):	Jews	continued	to	be	denied	the	right	to	own	land	in	the
Empire,	had	to	pay	a	special	poll	tax,	were	subject	to	marriage	restrictions	and,	if
born	outside	the	Empire,	required	a	special	“toleration	permit”	to	reside	there,
renewable	every	three	years.	They	were	also	excluded	from	the	civil	service,
though	they	could	and	did	serve	in	the	army	and	some	had	even	become	officers
during	the	Napoleonic	Wars.	When	Lionel	went	on	his	tour	through	Germany	in
1827,	it	was	only	in	Vienna	that	he	found	the	position	of	Jews	so	bad	as	to	be
noteworthy:	“Jews	are	very	much	oppressed,	they	can	hold	no	situation	under
Government	nor	possess	any	land	property,	not	even	a	house	in	the	town,	they
are	obliged	to	pay	a	heavy	tolerance	tax,	and	must	have	a	permission	to	hire

--- Page 240 ---
lodgings.”	All	these	restrictions	directly	affected	his	Uncle	Salomon.	He	had	to
seek	permission	from	Metternich	in	1823,	when	his	cousin	Anton	Schnapper
wanted	to	move	to	Vienna	to	marry	a	relative	of	his	senior	clerk	Leopold	von
Wertheimstein.	Ten	years	later	he	had	to	apply	for	renewal	of	“toleration”	for
another	senior	clerk,	Moritz	Goldschmidt	(who	had	also	been	born	in	Frankfurt).
Salomon	himself	could	only	rent	accommodation	in	Vienna,	and	his	request	in
1831	that	he	and	his	brothers	be	allowed	“to	convert	part	of	the	wealth	with
which	a	kind	providence	has	blessed	us	into	a	form	in	which	it	will	be
remunerative	whatever	vicissitudes	may	befall	us”	was	turned	down—despite
Salomon’s	ingenious	argument	that	this	would	be	“not	wholly	inconsistent	with
[the	government’s]	own	advantage,	since	it	cannot	regard	with	indifference	the
possibility	of	attracting	considerable	capital	sums	to	the	country	which	will
become	subject	to	taxation.”	If	such	exceptions	could	not	be	made	even	for	the
state’s	most	powerful	and	loyal	banker,	efforts	to	improve	the	collective	position
of	the	Austrian	Jews	were	foredoomed	to	failure	before	the	1840s.
In	western	Germany,	matters	were	left	in	a	state	of	flux	by	the	end	of	French
control	in	1814.	Dalberg’s	1811	decree	giving	Jews	full	rights	of	citizenship	in
Frankfurt	was	effectively	suspended	shortly	after	his	abdication	as	Grand	Duke.
In	March	1814	the	special	Jewish	oath	was	reintroduced	in	the	courts	and	Jews
were	dismissed	from	public	sector	posts.	Later	the	same	year,	membership	of	the
citizens’	assembly	was	once	again	restricted	to	Christians.	The	situation	in
neighbouring	Hesse-Kassel	was	similar.	As	we	have	seen,	this	reaction	partly
reflected	popular	anti-Jewish	feeling,	which	in	Frankfurt	was	distinctly
threatening.	Amschel’s	letters	of	this	period	are	full	of	lurid	images	of
impending	violence:	the	Gentiles	“could	drink	Jews’	blood”	or	even	“eat	a
grilled	Jew.”	There	was,	however,	a	chance	to	stem	this	reaction	at	the	Congress
of	Vienna	(1814-15),	where	the	constitutional	form	of	the	new	German
Confederation	was	to	be	determined,	raising	the	possibility	of	a	general
emancipation	applicable	to	Germany	as	a	whole.	Although	the	Rothschilds	were
mainly	preoccupied	with	the	financial	aspects	of	the	post-war	settlement,	which
were	largely	decided	in	Paris,	they	nevertheless	took	a	close	interest	in	this
aspect	of	events	in	the	Austrian	capital,	where	a	delegation	had	been	sent	by	the
Frankfurt	Jewish	community	to	press	the	Jewish	case.	It	would	appear	that	the
first	member	of	the	family	to	see	the	need	for	such	lobbying	was	Salomon’s	wife
Caroline.	On	July	21,	1814,	she	wrote	to	her	husband,	who	was	then	in	London:
It	does	not	look	rosy	for	us	as	regards	our	citizenship	.	.	.	As	far	as	I	can	see	from
a	distance,	we	still	have	a	long	struggle	before	us.	This	matter	
interests	me	so

--- Page 241 ---
much	that,	if	I	catch	a	simple	word	about	it,	I	listen	eagerly	to	what	is	said	.	.	.	I
am	very	curious	to	know	what	the	result	is	going	to	be.	Can’t	you,	my	dearest
Salomon,	contribute	to	this	through	your	acquaintances	over	there?	This	would
be	a	heavenly	good	deed,	which	cannot	be	bought	even	with	very	much	money.
Perhaps	a	minister	there	would	give	you	an	introduction	to	Austria,	Russia	or
whomso	ever	has	a	say	in	this	matter.	You	may	ask	what	has	a	woman	to	do	with
public	affairs?	Better	she	should	write	about	soap	and	needles.	However,	I	see
what	I	am	doing	as	necessary.	Nobody	is	doing	anything	about	this	matter.	Time
is	passing	slowly	and	we	will	reproach	ourselves	for	not	having	done	more	.	.	.
This	matter	is	now	most	pressing;	and	here	in	Frankfurt	nobody	is	doing
anything.
Amschel	and	Carl	needed	no	such	prompting.	In	August	and	September	the
former	was	in	Berlin	on	business,	from	whence	he	relayed	news	of	the	likely
Russian	and	Prussian	positions	on	the	subject	to	Isaac	Gumprecht,	one	of	the
leaders	of	the	Frankfurt	Jews	in	Vienna	(the	other	key	figures	were	Ludwig
Börne’s	father	Jacob	Baruch	and	the	lawyer	August	Jassoy).	Carl	meanwhile
wrote	to	Nathan	asking	him	whether	an	“English	Lord”	then	on	his	way	to
Vienna—probably	Castlereagh—“could	possibly	help	in	the	question	of	the	civil
rights	with	regard	to	the	Jews.”
From	an	early	stage,	the	brothers	pinned	considerable	hopes	on	the	Prussian
Chancellor	Hardenberg,	one	of	the	architects	of	the	Prussian	emancipation.
According	to	Amschel,	he	had	“a	very	friendly	attitude	towards	the	Jews	.	.	.
[H]e	obtained	citizenship	rights	for	the	Danzig	Jews.	And	he	did	this	despite	the
anti-Jewish	representations	which	the	Danzig	Gentile	merchants	made	to	the
King.”	He	also	urged	Nathan	to	“send	a	few	small	presents	for	the	Minister’s
[probably	the	Prussian	Finance	Minister	Bülow’s]	wife.	[He]	is	most	certainly	in
a	position	to	help	the	Jews.”	The	Prussian	diplomat	Wilhelm	von	Humboldt
received	similar	blandishments:	though	he	scrupulously	refused	a	gift	of	three
emerald	rings	from	the	Jewish	delegation	at	Vienna	in	1814,	two	years	later
Amschel	offered	to	purchase	some	caskets	from	him	at	what	he	considered	an
excessive	price	“if	by	it	something	could	be	achieved.”	Their	other	great	hope
was	Metternich,	though	his	apparently	sympathetic	attitude	was	known	not	to	be
shared	by	other	senior	Austrian	ministers.	A	letter	from	Salomon	in	October
1815	asked	Nathan	to	make	a	speculative	purchase	of	British	stocks	worth
£20,000	for	“the	great	man	who	does	everything	for	[the]	Jews.”	This	could	refer
to	either	Hardenberg	or	Metternich,	whom	Salomon	had	seen	the	previous	day.
Buderus—who	had	been	restored	to	power	by	the	Elector	in	Hesse-Kassel—was

--- Page 242 ---
also	seen	as	a	possible	source	of	support,	though	the	fact	that	the	Jewish
community	owed	him	money	was	expected	to	complicate	his	attitude.
At	first,	it	seemed	as	if	a	compromise	could	be	reached	in	Vienna.	In
December	1814,	for	example,	Carl	heard	that	citizenship	could	(once	again)	be
secured	for	the	Frankfurt	Jews	in	return	for	a	cash	payment	of	50,000	gulden;
following	his	father’s	example,	he	offered	to	contribute	5,000,	in	addition	to	the
3,000	the	community	already	owed	the	firm.	But	there	was	a	serious	setback
when,	at	the	suggestion	of	the	Bremen	Bürgermeister	Smidt,	article	16	of	the
German	Bundesakte—the	loose	confederal	constitution	signed	by	the	member
states	in	June	1815—referred	only	to	
rights	previously	granted	to	Jews	“by”	(as
opposed	to	the	original	“in”)	the	German	states,	effectively	invalidating	all	the
Napoleonic	measures,	and	leaving	future	arrangements	in	the	hands	of	the
individual	states.	Nevertheless,	after	the	interruption	of	Napoleon’s	Hundred
Days,	the	brothers	continued	their	efforts	in	the	hope	of	bringing	pressure	to	bear
directly	on	the	Frankfurt	authorities.	In	September	Amschel	sent	the	latest	details
of	the	situation	in	Frankfurt	to	Paris,	urging	his	brothers	to	show	them	to
Metternich	and	to	“Bülow	who	is	a	good	friend	of	Hardenberg	and	promised	me
in	Berlin	that	he	would	help	.	.	.	If	you	can	help	you	will	be	blessed,	for	Baruch
is	in	Vienna	but	will	be	back	soon.	But	with	such	things	you	must	strike	while
the	iron	is	hot.”	Salomon	should	tell	Bülow	what	Amschel	had	told	Hardenberg:
“That	we	should	not	be	regarded	as	aliens.	In	critical	times,	we	[Jews]	served	[in
the	army]	as	well	as	any	native.	I	believe	you	will	be	doing	good	if	you	do	this,
as	we	have	many	enemies	and	otherwise	you	won’t	get	anything;	we	just	have
far	too	many	enemies,	and	I	will	be	very	sorry	if	we	end	up	with	nothing.”
Salomon	was	soon	able	to	report	a	promise	of	support	from	Metternich	as	well
as	Hardenberg,	which	led	to	letters	being	sent	to	the	Frankfurt	authorities	by
both	Austria	and	Prussia,	urging	that	the	agreement	between	Dalberg	and	the
Jewish	community	of	1811	be	upheld—or,	as	Salomon	rather	optimistically	put
it,	telling	them	“that	the	devil	may	take	all	non-Jews	in	Frankfurt	and	that	the
Jews	in	Frankfurt	will	keep	their	citizenship.”
6
	James	meanwhile	urged	Nathan
to	get	a	letter	from	a	senior	British	figure	in	the	same	sense.	When	Hardenberg
came	to	Frankfurt	at	the	end	of	November,	Carl	pressed	him	to	receive	a
deputation	from	the	community,	among	them	Amschel,	and	was	further
encouraged	to	hear	him	speak	“very	graciously	about	our	Jewish	matters.”	“You
cannot	do	too	much	on	acount	of	the	Jewish	matters,”	he	exhorted	his	brothers.
Caroline	even	wrote	to	congratulate	her	husband	on	his	efforts	on	December	7.
Such	congratulations	were	premature.	Amschel	sensed	the	coming

--- Page 243 ---
disappointment	as	early	as	September,	when	he	heard	that	Baron	vom	Stein
might	be	given	a	decisive	say	in	the	matter,	as	Stein	was	regarded	as	having
“turned	against	the	Jews.”	By	November	the	messages	he	was	receiving	from
Baruch	in	Vienna	were	gloomy,	while	the	Frankfurt	authorities	were	unmoved
by	the	Austrian	and	Prussian	letters.	Nor	was	help	to	be	had	from	outside
Germany:	according	to	Nathan,	the	British	representative	sent	to	Frankfurt,	the
Earl	of	Clancarty,	was	“no	friend	of	our	people.”	Worse,	the	Austrian	delegate	to
the	Confederation’s	Diet	in	Frankfurt,	Count	Buol-Schauenstein,	turned	out	to
share	the	Frankfurt	authorities’	view	that	“this	nation,	which	never	integrates
with	any	other,	but	always	hangs	together	to	pursue	its	own	ends,	will	soon
overshadow	Christian	firms,	and	with	their	terribly	rapid	increase	of	population
they	will	soon	spread	over	the	whole	city,	so	that	a	Jewish	trading	city	will
gradually	arise	beside	our	venerable	cathedral.”
Although	Amschel	and	Carl	continued	to	lobby	the	representatives	of	the
various	German	states	and	to	receive	encouragement	from	Hardenberg	and
Humboldt,	as	well	as	from	the	Russian	envoy	in	Frankfurt,	they	were
increasingly	pessimistic.	Indeed,	Amschel	began	to	talk	of	leaving	Frankfurt
altogether—though	this	may	have	been	intended	partly	as	a	threat	to	embarrass
the	Frankfurt	authorities.	It	was	at	this	time	that	he	and	Carl	made	their	first
concerted	efforts	to	overcome	their	social	isolation	in	Frankfurt:	the	first	dinners
they	gave	were	in	fact	primarily	designed	to	lobby	influential	figures	in
diplomatic	and	financial	circles	“in	the	interests	of	the	Jewish	people.”	They
attached	particular	significance	to	winning	over	the	banker	Bethmann,	whose
utterances	on	the	subject	appear	to	have	varied	considerably	according	to	the
company	he	was	in.	At	the	same	time	(November	1816),	Amschel,	Baruch	and
Jonas	Rothschild	sent	a	memorandum	to	the	Federal	Diet	challenging	the
legality	of	the	Frankfurt	Senate’s	action.
Under	these	circumstances,	it	was	inevitable	that	the	legislative	settlements
reached	in	the	various	states	would	fall	far	short	of	what	had	been	achieved	in
1811.	In	Kassel,	although	the	Jews	were	given	citizenship	(in	return	for	the
inevitable	payment),	it	was	hedged	around	with	economic	restrictions	preventing
Jews	from	unrestricted	ownership	of	real	estate	and	prohibiting	street-hawking.
To	Buderus’s	wife,	Carl	was	fulsome	in	his	flattery	of	the	Elector:	“I	said,	the
Prince	knows	that	he	alone	began	the	reform,	it	was	his	own	initiative,	and	that
the	world	now	saw	how	liberally-minded	he	had	been	all	along.”	Indeed,	he
pressed	William	to	give	the	same	rights	to	the	Jews	in	his	other	territory	of
Hanau.	But	he	and	his	brothers	knew	full	well	that,	while	the	conditions	attached

--- Page 244 ---
to	Jewish	citizenship	seemed	“trivial	things	in	principle,”	they	were	“big	things
for	those	affected.”	Moreover,	as	Carl	privately	remarked,	the	Elector	was	“an
expert	when	it	comes	to	going	back	on	his	word”—a	verdict	which	seemed	to	be
vindicated	in	1820,	when	it	was	rumoured	that	new	residence	restrictions	were
going	to	be	imposed	on	Jews	in	Kassel.	The	new	law	was	in	fact	typical	of	the
kind	of	qualified	“emancipation	contract”	which	German	states	wanted	to	make
with	Jews—offering	rights	only	in	return	for	social	“regeneration”	and
assimilation;	it	was	better	than	nothing,	but	it	did	not	satisfy	the	Rothschilds.
In	Frankfurt,	despite	the	example	of	Electoral	Hesse,	the	debate	appeared	to
end	in	an	even	more	complete	defeat	in	October	1816,	when	a	revised
constitution	confirmed	the	equality	of	Christian	citizens	only,	leaving	Jews	as
second-class	
Schutzgenossen
	(literally	“protected	comrades”).	It	was	especially
galling	that,	even	as	they	revoked	the	decree	of	1811,	the	authorities	specifically
cited	Amschel’s	garden	as	evidence	of	their	enlightened	attitude	towards	the
Jewish	community.	If	this	was	intended	to	buy	off	the	Rothschilds,	however,	it
failed;	it	merely	made	Amschel	the	target	for	antagonism	on	the	part	of	those	in
the	town	who	wished	even	stricter	measures	against	the	Jews—namely	a
wholesale	return	to	the	ghetto.	As	we	have	seen,	anti-Jewish	feeling	in	Frankfurt
grew	more	and	more	overt	in	this	period,	with	the	performance	of	plays	like
Unser	Verkehr
	and	the	publication	of	numerous	anti-Jewish	pamphlets.	During
the	debates	on	the	Jewish	question,	some	members	of	the	Senate	had	even	been
heard	to	propose	as	a	“solution”	that	the	Jews	should	be	expelled	from	Frankfurt
altogether	“as	the	endeavour	of	these	money-grabbing	nomads	is	solely	directed
at	the	ruin	of	[us]	Christians,	so	that	within	a	few	years	a	large	part	of	the
Christian	burghers	and	residents	will	have	been	deprived	of	all	happiness	and
prosperity.”	In	September	1816	a	group	of	anxious	representatives	of	the	Jewish
community	wrote	to	the	Rothschild	brothers,	noting	“how	tirelessly	and	eagerly
you	are	working	for	us,	how	strong	your	solidarity	with	us	is,”	but	admitting:
“[T]he	good	results	which	we	were	justified	in	hoping	for	have	not	been
achieved	.	.	.	We	fear	that	the	fortress	will	not	capitulate	before	very	decisive
measures	are	taken.”
What	form	could	such	measures	take?	In	the	wake	of	the	Frankfurt	defeat,
Amschel	angrily	talked	of	“hurting”	the	Gentile	bankers	in	Frankfurt	“by	doing
business,	even	if	it	entails	losses.”	More	plausibly,	the	Rothschilds	might	make
use	of	their	rapidly	increasing	wealth	in	a	more	positive	way.	Some	German
Jews	looked	to	Nathan—the	richest	and	most	influential	of	the	brothers	at	this
time—to	provide	some	kind	of	English	
deus	ex	machina
.	“I	hope	in	days	to

--- Page 245 ---
come	the	British	who	conquered	Napoleon,”	wrote	one	of	the	Frankfurt
community’s	leaders,	“are	going	to	call	the	Frankfurt	Senate	to	set	free	Jewish
slaves	here	as	they	have	freed	Christian	slaves	elsewhere.”	Amschel	himself
urged	Nathan	to	“have	the	British	Minister	[in	Bavaria,	Frederick]	Lamb	egged
on	again”	to	support	the	Jewish	case.	According	to	the	brothers’	correspondence,
Nathan	did	what	he	could.	A	number	of	letters	credit	him	with	securing	support
on	the	issue	from	the	Dutch	King,	as	well	as	acting	to	protect	the	interests	of
other	Jewish	communities	in	British	jurisdiction,	notably	in	Corfu	and	Hanover.
“I	think	it	might	be	easy	to	improve	our	lot	should	you	approach	the	Prince
Regent,”	a	Hamburg	Jew	named	Meyerstein	wrote	to	Nathan	in	1819.	“Why
should	the	Hanoverian	Jews,	living	in	an	English	province,	not	be	given	the
same	laws	conceded	to	their	brethren	in	England?	The	barbarity	of	the	past
century	has	got	to	be	stopped	and	it	is	from	your	direction	that	we	expect	the	sun
to	rise	also	for	us.”	In	the	case	of	Frankfurt,	of	course,	British	influence	was
minimal:	the	best	tactic	still	seemed	to	be	to	apply	pressure	in	Berlin	and	Vienna,
in	the	hope	that	the	larger	German	states	would	finally	force	Frankfurt	to	soften
its	attitude.	But	here	too	Nathan	could	make	a	contribution.	In	what	was	to
become	the	pattern	for	much	of	their	later	activities	of	this	sort,	the	brothers
sought	to	win	stronger	Prussian	support	for	the	Jewish	case	in	the	course	of	the
negotiations	for	the	1818	sterling	loan.	The	brothers	also	endeavoured	to	raise
the	issue	at	the	Congress	of	Aix;	indeed,	Amschel	argued	that	Salomon	should
go	there	“not	for	business	reasons	but	in	the	interest	of	the	whole	Jewry.”	It	was
in	fact	this	issue	which	brought	them	into	contact	with	Friedrich	Gentz	for	the
first	time,	as	he	and	Metternich	passed	through	Frankfurt	on	their	way	to	the
Congress.
Such	pulling	on	the	purse	strings	in	Berlin	and	Vienna	could	not	prevent
popular	antagonism	in	Frankfurt	finally	boiling	over	into	the	violence	of	the
“Hep”	riots	of	August	1819.	On	the	other	hand,	the	unrest	served	to	strengthen
the	case	against	the	town	authorities,	and	the	Rothschilds	sought	to	press	home
the	point	by	reiterating	Amschel’s	threat	to	leave	Frankfurt	for	good.	A	letter	by
James	to	the	Vienna	banker	David	Parish,	which	was	evidently	intended	for
Metternich’s	eyes,	illustrates	the	way	the	brothers	were	now	explicitly	using
their	financial	leverage	on	behalf	of	their	“nation”	(a	phrase	they	often	used):
What	can	be	the	result	of	such	disturbances?	Surely	they	can	only	have	the	effect
of	causing	all	the	rich	people	of	our	nation	to	leave	Germany	and	transfer	their
property	to	France	and	England;	I	myself	have	advised	my	brother	to	shut	up
house	and	come	here.	If	we	make	a	start,	I	am	convinced	all	well-to-do	people

--- Page 246 ---
will	follow	our	example	and	I	question	whether	the	sovereigns	of	Germany	will
be	pleased	with	a	development	which	will	make	it	necessary	for	them	to	apply	to
France	or	England	when	they	are	in	need	of	funds.	Who	buys	state	bonds	in
Germany	and	who	has	endeavoured	to	raise	the	rate	of	exchange	if	it	be	not	our
nation?	Has	not	our	example	engendered	a	certain	confidence	in	the	state	loans
so	that	Christian	firms	have	also	taken	heart	and	invested	
part	of	their	money	in
all	kinds	of	securities?	.	.	.	The	object	of	the	agitators	at	Frankfurt	seems	to	have
been	.	.	.	to	collect	all	the	Israelites	into	a	single	street;	if	they	had	been
successful	in	doing	this,	might	it	not	have	led	to	a	general	massacre?	I	need	not
point	out	how	undesirable	such	an	occurrence	would	be,	especially	at	a	time
when	our	house	might	be	holding	large	sums	for	the	account	of	the	Austrian	or
Prussian	Court.	It	seems	to	me	to	be	really	necessary	that	Austria	and	Prussia
should	devise	measures	to	be	applied	by	the	Senate	at	Frankfurt	for	energetically
dealing	with	occurrences	such	as	those	of	the	10th	of	this	month,	and	thus
making	each	man	secure	in	his	possessions.
In	the	view	of	their	avowed	adversary,	the	Bremen	delegate	to	the	Frankfurt
Diet,	the	Rothschilds	were	making	full	use	of	their	financial	leverage.	Besides
Austria	and	Prussia,	“several	minor	states	have	also	had	recourse	to	this	financial
Power	in	their	difficulties,	which	puts	it	in	a	strong	position	to	ask	for	favours,
especially	for	a	favour	of	such	an	apparently	trivial	nature	as	the	protection	of	a
few	dozen	Jews	in	a	small	state.”
The	brothers	kept	up	the	pressure	in	1820,	pressing	Metternich	to	lean	on
Buol,	who	continued	to	support	the	Frankfurt	authorities.	They	also	lobbied	the
Bade	nese	government	on	behalf	of	the	Jews	there.	When	Metternich	visited
Frankfurt	in	October	1821,	he	signalled	his	own	sympathies	by	lunching	with
Amschel;	Salomon	meanwhile	came	to	an	“important	financial	arrangement”
with	Gentz,	after	he	had	once	again	“bent	his	ear	about	the	fatal	Frankfurt	‘Jews’
affair.”	In	1822	Amschel	even	wrote	to	Metternich’s	lover	Princess	Lieven
“asking	for	the	withdrawal	of	certain	instructions	towards	[the	Frankfurt	Jews]
that	Count	Münster	must	have	sent	to	the	Minister	of	Hanover.”
This	campaign	was	not	a	total	failure.	A	year	after	his	letter	to	Princess
Lieven,	for	example,	Amschel	was	able	to	celebrate	Buol’s	recall	and	the	arrival
of	the	more	sympathetic	Münch-Bellinghausen.	And,	writing	from	Berlin	in
March	1822,	Heine	detected	“better	prospects”	that	the	Jews	would	win	back
their	citizenship.	Yet	Princess	Lieven’s	private	reaction	to	Amschel’s	letter	was
revealing:	it	was,	she	told	Metternich,	“the	funniest	letter	imaginable	.	.	.	Four
pages	of	sentiment,	begging	my	help	for	the	Jews	of	his	town,	and	I,	the

--- Page 247 ---
patroness	of	the	Jews!	There	is	a	kind	of	naive	confidence	in	it	all,	which	is	at
once	laughable	and	touching.”	If	this	was	how	Metternich	felt	too,	the	brothers’
efforts	in	Vienna	may	have	been	less	productive	than	they	imagined.	In	the	end,
the	Frankfurt	authorities	made	only	the	most	minimal	concessions.	Although
there	was	to	be	no	return	to	the	ghetto—in	itself	a	cause	for	relief	rather	than
rejoicing—a	plethora	of	restrictions	on	Jews	remained,	and	their	citizenship	was
clearly	of	the	second-class	variety.	The	new	law	confirming	the	“private	citizen’s
rights”	of	the	“Israelite	citizens”	(1824)	excluded	the	Jews	from	political	life	as
before;	imposed	restrictions	on	their	economic	activities;	subordinated	the
community	to	a	Senate	commissioner;	permitted,	as	before,	only	fifteen	Jewish
marriages	a	year	(only	two	of	which	could	be	with	outsiders);	and	restored	the
Jewish	oath	in	the	law	courts.
7
	It	is	important	to	bear	in	mind	that	these
regulations	applied	to	more	than	a	tenth	of	the	town’s	population	(some	4,530
people).	Most	of	the	rules—including	the	restriction	on	marriages	to	Jews	from
outside	Frankfurt—remained	in	place	until	1848.	Indeed,	the	Frankfurt	Jews	did
not	secure	full	legal	equality	until	1864.
Heine	used	the	Rothschilds’	role	in	the	emancipation	debate	to	make	a
sarcastic	joke	about	businessmen	in	general:
Frankfurt	citizenship	papers	.	.	.	are	said	to	have	dropped	99	per	cent	below	par
—to	adopt	the	language	they	speak	in	Frankfurt	.	.	.	But—to	speak	like	a
Frankfurter	again—have	not	the	Rothschilds	and	the	Bethmanns	stood	at	par	for
a	long	time?	A	businessman’s	religion	is	the	same	all	the	world	over.	The
businessman’s	.	.	.	office	is	his	church;	his	desk	is	his	pew,	his	copybook	is	his
bible,	his	warehouse	his	holiest	of	holies,	the	bourse	bell	his	church	bell,	his	gold
his	God,	his	credit	his	faith.
But	this	was	to	miss	the	point.	It	was	not	the	position	of	the	Rothschilds	which
was	at	issue,	but	the	position	of	Jews	in	general.	What	Heine	had	to	say	about
the	religion	or	lack	of	religion	of	businessmen	would	be	echoed	by	that	other
apostate	Marx	(who	argued	conversely	that	capitalism	was	the	universalisation
of	Jewish	“huckstering”);	it	was	not,	however,	true	in	the	case	of	the
Rothschilds.	In	any	case,	the	idea	that	Bethmann	and	Rothschild	stood	at	par	was
not	one	which	many	Gentiles	in	Frankfurt	accepted.
There	is	an	obvious	continuity	running	from	the	battle	for	Jewish	rights	in
Frankfurt	to	the	involvement	of	Nathan	and	his	sons	in	the	campaign	to	secure
emancipation	in	Britain	after	1828.	For	here	the	remaining	legal	discrimination
to	which	Jews	were	subject	did	not	in	any	way	personally	inconvenience	the

--- Page 248 ---
Rothschilds.	Nothing	prevented	Nathan	doing	the	business	he	did	at	the	Royal
Exchange;	nothing	prevented	him	buying	the	houses	where	he	wished	to	live.
The	fact	that	British	Jews	were	excluded	from	political	life	and	the	English
universities	could	have	been	a	matter	of	complete	indifference	to	him,	as	he	had
no	desire	or	need	to	enter	any	of	these	institutions.	Yet	it	was	not.	Even	Nathan,
of	all	the	brothers	the	most	single-minded	in	his	pursuit	of	profit,	felt	an
obligation	to	act	on	behalf	of	the	Jewish	community	as	a	whole,	even	for	the
sake	of	rights	he	himself	had	no	intention	of	exercising.
In	1828	and	1829	Protestant	Dissenters	and	then	Catholics	secured	the	repeal
of	the	laws	excluding	them	from	political	life,	but	Jews	did	not—thanks	to	the
parliamentary	Oath	of	Abjuration	(originally	intended	to	exclude	“popish
recusant	convicts”),	which	contained	the	phrase	“upon	the	true	faith	of	a
Christian.”	This	inconsistency	appears	to	have	galvanised	Nathan—or,	rather,	to
have	galvanised	his	wife.	For,	like	his	brother	Salomon,	Nathan	was	evidently
susceptible	to	feminine	pressure	on	the	issue.	On	February	22,	1829,	his	brother-
in-law	Moses	Montefiore	recorded	in	his	diary	how	he	and	his	wife	Judith
took	a	ride	to	see	Hannah	Rothschild	and	her	husband.	We	had	a	long
conversation	on	the	subject	of	liberty	for	the	Jews.	He	said	he	would	shortly	go
to	the	Lord	Chancellor	and	consult	him	on	the	matter.	Hannah	said	if	he	did	not,
she	would.	The	spirit	manifested	here	by	Mrs.	Rothschild,	and	the	brief	but
impressive	language	she	used,	reminded	me	most	strikingly	of	her	sister,	Mrs.
Montefiore.
8
In	the	subsequent	manoeuvrings,	Nathan	and	Montefiore	worked	closely
together.	Broadly	speaking,	they	tended	to	urge	a	more	cautious	strategy	than	the
leading	figure	on	the	London	Committee	of	Deputies	of	the	British	Jews	(later
generally	known	as	the	Board	of	Deputies),	Isaac	Lyon	Goldsmid.
For	Nathan,	the	issue	revealed	with	sudden	clarity	the	limits	of	his
relationship	with	the	Tory	government,	and	particularly	with	the	Prime	Minister
Wellington.	Perhaps	somewhat	naively,	he	offered	to	sound	out	his	Tory	contacts
about	the	possibility	of	emancipation	in	early	April,	at	the	height	of	the	political
crisis	over	Catholic	emancipation	which	was	close	to	toppling	the	government.
The	Lord	Chancellor,	Lord	Lyndhurst,	was	evasive:
He	advised	them	to	remain	quiet	until	.	.	.	the	Catholic	business	.	.	.	was	settled,
but	if	they	thought	it	more	to	their	own	interest	to	bring	the	matter	forward
immediately,	to	set	Lord	Holland	to	do	so,	and	he	would	support	him,	as	he
considered	it	right	that	the	Jews	should	be	relieved	from	their	present

--- Page 249 ---
disabilities;	at	the	same	time	they	must	be	guided	by	public	opinion.
On	the	basis	of	this	ambiguous	message,	Nathan	recommended	to	the	Board	of
Deputies	“that	a	petition	praying	for	relief	should	be	prepared,	in	readiness	to	be
presented	to	the	House	of	Lords	whenever	it	may	be	thought	right.”	At	Nathan’s
suggestion	the	petition	dealt	solely	with	British-born	Jews,	and	he	advised	that
only	British-born	Jews	sign	it	(hence	his	son	Lionel’s	name	appeared,	rather	than
his	own).	He	and	Montefiore	then	took	it	to	their	old	friend,	the	former
Chancellor	Vansittart	(now	Lord	Bexley),	who	agreed	to	present	it	in	the	Lords
after	some	minor	alterations.	The	Deputies	were	impressed,	and	wrote	thanking
Nathan	“for	the	zeal	and	attention	he	has	manifested	on	behalf	of	his	Hebrew
Brethren,	and	more	especially	for	his	personal	Attendance	this	day	and	evincing
so	ardent	a	desire	in	promoting	through	his	powerful	influence	a	relief	to	the
Jews	of	this	Kingdom	from	those	disabilities	under	which	they	are	labouring.”
Work	was	begun	on	drafting	a	bill.
Yet	in	the	course	of	the	following	month	it	became	evident	that	Wellington
was	opposed	to	the	introduction	of	any	such	bill	that	year;	nor	would	he	commit
himself	as	to	the	next	parliamentary	session.	When	Nathan	went	to	see	him	in
February	1830	to	“entreat”	him	“to	do	something	for	the	Jews,”	the	Duke	replied
that	“he	would	not	commit	the	Government	on	the	question	of	the	Jews,	and
advised	them	to	defer	their	application	to	Parliament,	or,	if	they	did	not	.	.	.	it
must	be	at	their	own	risk,	and	he	would	make	no	promise.”	In	the	face	of	this,
Nathan	became	pessimistic.	The	Liberal	Tory	Robert	Grant	proceeded	to
introduce	a	petition	in	favour	of	the	Jews	a	week	later,	followed	on	April	5	by
the	first	of	many	bills—an	event	Nathan	himself	may	have	witnessed.	Two	days
later,	however,	he	informed	his	brother	James	“that	the	Jewish	matter	is	not
going	through.”	He	lobbied	another	old	Tory	friend	on	the	subject—Herries,	now
President	of	the	Board	of	Trade—but	the	government	position	remained
unchanged	and	the	bill	was	duly	defeated	by	228	to	165	on	its	second	reading.	It
was	now	obvious	that	support	for	Jewish	emancipation	was	much	more	likely	to
come	from	the	Whigs.	After	years	of	proximity	to	the	Tories,	Nathan	suddenly
found	himself	siding	with	the	Opposition.
The	emancipation	issue	cut	across	party	lines:	supporters	included	the	socialist
Robert	Owen,	the	Irish	Catholic	Daniel	O’Connell	and	the	Liberal	Tory	William
Huskisson,	while	its	most	vehement	early	opponents	included	William	Cobbett.
A	flavour	of	the	more	radical	opposition	can	be	gleaned	from	the	numerous
cartoons	devoted	to	the	subject.	A	caricature	produced	shortly	after	the
introduction	of	
Grant’s	bill	(though	dated	March	1,	1830)	depicts	a	bearded	Jew

--- Page 250 ---
in	the	House	of	Commons	listening	to	Thomas	Babington	Macaulay’s	maiden
speech	in	support	of	the	bill	and	declaring:	“It’s	
Liberty	of	Conscience	my
peoples	vants
—that’s	all”	(illustration	6.ii).	The	figure	bears	no	physical
resemblance	to	Nathan,	but	the	fact	that	he	has	a	bill	in	his	coat	pocket	bearing
the	legend	“Cent	per	cent	interest”	makes	the	connection	between	the	Jews	and
finance	clear	enough.
6.ii:	Anon.,	“
To	make	a	shambles	of	the	parliament	house—Shakespeare
,”	the
Looking	Glass
	
No.	3	(1830).
In	a	contemporaneous	cartoon	entitled	
The	Wise	Men	of	the	East	and	the
Marquiss	of	West
,	Nathan	himself	is	depicted	in	conversation	with	Grant	(see
illustration	6.iii).	“I	did	all	I	could	to	procure	you	the	power	of	legislating	for	a
religion	you	mock	at,”	Grant	says,	“but	the	narrow-minded	House	threw	out	
the
Bill
.”	Nathan	replies,	“Ah	well,	never	mind:	have	you	any	Spanish	to	sell,	I’ll
give	you	48	for	it.”	A	more	stereotyped	Jew	behind	Nathan	whispers,	“Dat’s
right,	we	can	easily	run	it	up	to	50”;	while	another	exclaims,	“Mine	Cot,	Beards
will	not	be	de	fashion	yet,	den!”	In	both	cases	a	pun	is	intended	on	the	word
“bill”:	the	implication	is	that	the	Jews	were	more	interested	in	the	financial

--- Page 251 ---
variety	and	that	the	proponents	of	a	parliamentary	bill	for	emancipation	were
ingenuous.
Tory	opposition	continued	to	thwart	emancipation	even	when	the	Whigs
returned	to	power	after	the	Reform	crisis.	A	second	bill	passed	its	third	reading
in	the	Commons	in	1833,	only	to	founder	in	the	Lords	in	the	face	of	opposition
led	by	Wellington	and	the	majority	of	bishops;	a	pattern	repeated	the	following
year.	During	Peel’s	brief	ministry	of	1834-5,	Nathan	was	one	of	the	signatories
of	a	letter	
to	the	Prime	Minister—known	to	be	more	pragmatic	in	his	views—
suggesting	that	the	government	at	least	back	a	bill	for	Jewish	enfranchisement.
But	Peel	declined;	and	the	measure	was	taken	up	only	when	the	Whigs	came
back	in	the	following	month.	A	year	later,	in	1836,	when	the	Chancellor	of	the
Exchequer	Thomas	Spring	Rice	introduced	yet	another	emancipation	bill,	it	too
failed	to	get	past	the	Lords.
6.iii:	Anon.,
	
The	Wise	Men	of	the	East	and	the	Marquiss	of	West,	McLean’s
Monthly	Sheet	of	Caricatures
,	No.	55	(1830).
It	is	hard	to	believe	that	the	Tories’	opposition	to	emancipation	had	no
influence	on	Nathan’s	political	views.	As	we	shall	see,	his	attitudes	to	the
Reform	Bill	crisis	underwent	a	sea-change	between	1830	and	1832,	and	it	seems
likely	that	this	was	linked	to	disappointment	with	Wellington	over	emancipation.
Certainly,	when	his	sons	took	up	the	cudgels	in	the	one	major	battle	their	father

--- Page 252 ---
had	failed	to	win,	they	did	so	as	avowed	Whigs,	and	even	Liberals.	Amschel’s
garden	had	been	saved	in	Frankfurt;	but	the	next	symbol	of	the	Rothschild	role
in	Jewish	emancipation—Lionel’s	seat	in	the	House	of	Commons—would	not	be
secured	until	twenty-two	years	after	his	father’s	death.	And	it	would	be	another
three	decades	more	before	the	Rothschilds	and	the	Tories	were	reunited.
	
“The	Exceptional	Family”
Yet	for	all	their	commitment	to	Judaism	and	to	the	interests	of	their	“co-
religionists,”	there	was	one	important	respect	in	which	the	Rothschilds	sought	to
distance	themselves	from	the	wider	Jewish	community.	By	the	1820s	they	were
unquestionably	exceptional	in	financial	terms.	They	were	also	exceptional	in	the
privileged	status	they	enjoyed	relative	to	other	Jews:	this	was	what	Heine	was
specifically	alluding	to	when	he	used	the	phrase	“exceptional	family.”	But	they
were	also	exceptional	in	the	way	they	operated	
as
	a	family.
Most	eighteenth-	and	nineteenth-century	family	firms	had	a	limited	life-span.
The	idea	that	successive	generations	would	lose	the	economic	motivation—the
“work	ethic”—which	had	driven	their	fathers	and	grandfathers	was	far	from
being	an	invention	of	Thomas	Mann,	whose	
Buddenbrooks
	immortalised	the
phenomenon.	It	was	all	too	obvious	to	Francis	Baring.	As	he	wrote	ruefully	in
1803,	conscious	already	of	his	progeny’s	lack	of	business	acumen,	“Families
founded	on	the	acquirements	of	an	individual	do	not	last	above	sixty	years	one
with	another	.	.	.	[T]he	posterity	of	a	Merchant,	Banker	etc.,	particularly	when
they	are	young,	abandon	the	pursuit	of	their	predecessor	as	beneath	them,	or	they
follow	it	by	agents	without	interfering	themselves,	which	is	only	a	more	rapid
road	to	ruin.”	In	fact,	the	Barings	survived	relatively	well	as	a	financial	dynasty,
relinquishing	control	over	their	own	bank	only	in	the	1990s.	Innumerable	other
nineteenth-century	family	businesses	had	far	shorter	lives,	lasting	just	one	or	two
generations.	The	Rothschilds	took	exceptional	precautions	to	avoid	this
decadence.
The	necessary	first	step	towards	perpetuating	the	firm	was,	of	course,	to
produce	“posterity”;	and,	given	the	terms	of	Mayer	Amschel’s	will	(as	well,
needless	to	say,	as	the	social	conventions	of	the	period),	that	meant	sons.	While
Amschel	failed	to	produce	any	children	whatsoever,	his	brothers	produced	heirs
aplenty—thirteen	in	all.	Salomon	had	the	first,	Anselm,	born	in	1803;	Nathan
had	four	sons,	Lionel	(b.	1808),	Anthony	(b.	1810),	Nathaniel	(b.	1812)	and
Mayer	(b.	1818);	Carl	also	had	four,	Mayer	Carl	(b.	1820),	Adolph	(b.	1823),
Wilhelm	Carl	(b.	1828)	and	Anselm	Alexander	(b.	1835);	and	so	did	James:

--- Page 253 ---
Alphonse	(b.	1827),	Gustave	(b.	1829),	Salomon	(b.	1835)	and	Edmond	(b.
1845).
When	this	generation	duly	married,	male	children	continued	to	be	at	a
premium.	Indeed,	the	pressure	to	produce	sons	was	if	anything	rather	greater.
“What	do	you	think	of	my	new	little	girl?”	Anselm	asked	Anthony,	following	the
birth	of	his	second	daughter	Hannah	Mathilde	in	1832.	“A	boy	would	have	been
more	acceptable.”	(His	wife	Charlotte’s	first	child	had	been	a	boy,	but	he	had
died	in	infancy	in	1828.)	When	Lionel	too	was	presented	with	a	daughter,
Leonora,	one	of	the	senior	clerks	in	Paris	wrote	to	console	him:	“I	actually
compliment	you	that	it	is	a	daughter	which	our	dear	lady	has	given	you—for	you
know	it	is	necessary	that	the	first	child	in	our	family	is	of	that	sex	.	.	.	it	is	a
superstition,	but	that’s	the	way	it	is.”	“You	may	have	wished	for	a	son,”	he
added,	“but	he	will	come—in	two	years	you	will	announce	him.”	But	when,	at
the	appointed	date,	another	girl	was	born,	Anthony	could	not	disguise	his
disappointment:	“Congratulations	to	you	&	your	good	lady.	In	these	affairs	one
must	take	what	one	can	get.”	He	too	had	to	rest	content	with	two	daughters;	his
brother	Mayer	with	just	one.	Carl’s	sons	Mayer	Carl	and	Wilhelm	Carl	had	no
fewer	than	ten	girls	between	them,	but	no	sons.	It	was	not	until	1840	that	the
third	generation	produced	a	boy	(Lionel’s	son	Nathaniel,	followed	by	Alfred	two
years	later);	and	when	news	broke	that	Nat’s	wife	was	pregnant,	there	was	hope
of	a	winning	streak.	“Nat	has	determined	not	to	be	outdone	by	the	Rest	of	the
family	&	intends	next	year	to	present	you	to	his	son	&	heir—that	is	the	great
news	of	the	day,”	enthused	Anthony.	“It	is	quite	[certain]	&	if	he	intends	keeping
par	with	his	eldest	brother	a	pretty	lot	of	little	ones	will	be	in	the	family	&	the
more	the	happier.”	It	was	another	girl,	and	she	died	before	her	first	birthday.
It	would	be	wrong	to	infer	from	such	remarks	a	crude	“sexism,”	however.
They	were	more	indicative	of	an	anxiety—which	lasted	for	some	years—that	the
third	generation	would	fail	to	produce	male	heirs	altogether.	In	the	eyes	of
Nathan’s	wife	Hannah,	as	she	put	it	in	1832,	it	was	“of	no	consequence	to	our
gratification	whether	a	boy	or	a	girl,	so	[I]	have	no	pity	for	any	who	choose	to
grumble.”	Nor	was	this	just	the	female	point	of	view.	Once	his	wife	had
produced	a	son,	Anselm	lost	his	preference	for	male	children,	as	he	revealed
when	she	became	pregnant	again:
If	Carlo	Dolee	[apparently	a	nickname	for	Nat,	whose	wife	was	also	pregnant]
has	fabricated	a	little	girl	or	boy	my	offspring	will	.	.	.	be	very	acceptable	as	for	a
husband	or	for	a	wife	.	.	.	The	Public	will	not	say	the	Rothschild	family	has	been
idle	that	year.	I	hope	Billy	will	soon	follow	the	good	example,	if	he	goes	to	[the

--- Page 254 ---
spa	at]	Ems,	he	may	be	sure	of	success.
So	far,	so	conventional.	But	Anselm’s	light-hearted	letter	also	touches	on	what
was	perhaps	the	most	remarkable	aspect	of	the	Rothschilds’	history	as	a	family.
For	the	principal	reason	daughters	were	not	regarded	as	much	less	desirable	than
sons	was	that	the	family	practised	a	remarkably	sustained	strategy	of	endogamy.
Before	1824	Rothschilds	had	tended	to	marry	members	of	other,	similar
Jewish	families,	often	those	with	whom	they	did	business.	That	was	true	of	the
wives	of	all	but	one	of	Mayer	Amschel’s	sons—who	married,	respectively,	Eva
Hanau,	Caroline	Stern,	Hannah	Cohen	and	Adelheid	Herz—as	well	as	of	his
daughters’	husbands—Messrs	Worms,	Sichel,	Montefiore	and	the	two	Beyfuses.
This	was	not	unusual	by	nineteenth-century	standards.	As	we	have	seen,	the
Stättigkeit	imposed	on	the	Frankfurt	Jews	had	more	or	less	made	intermarriage
within	the	small	community	of	the	Judengasse	compulsory.	Even	without	that
compulsion,	however,	most	people—and	not	only	Jews—tended	to	marry	within
their	own	religious	community,	seeking	out	an	equivalent	community	(as	Nathan
did	in	London)	if	they	happened	to	leave	their	home	town.	After	1824,	however,
Rothschilds	tended	to	marry	Rothschilds.	Of	twenty-one	marriages	involving
descendants	of	Mayer	Amschel	between	1824	and	1877,	no	fewer	than	fifteen
were	between	his	direct	descendants.	Although	marriage	between	cousins	was
far	from	uncommon	in	the	nineteenth	century—especially	among	German-
Jewish	business	dynasties—this	was	an	extraordinary	amount	of	intermarriage.
“These	Rothschilds	harmonise	with	one	another	in	the	most	remarkable
fashion,”	declared	Heine.	“Strangely	enough,	they	even	choose	marriage
partners	from	among	themselves	and	the	strands	of	relationship	between	them
form	complicated	knots	which	future	historians	will	find	difficult	to	unravel.”	It
is	only	too	true;	not	even	the	royal	families	of	Europe	were	as	closely	inbred,
though	self-conscious	references	to	“our	royal	family”	suggest	that	the
Rothschilds	regarded	them	as	a	kind	of	model.	This	was	one	of	the	other	things
the	Rothschilds	had	in	common	with	the	Saxe-Coburgs.
It	began	in	July	1824	when	James	married	his	own	niece,	his	brother
Salomon’s	daughter	Betty.	(Because	he	was	so	much	younger	than	Salomon,	the
gap	in	age	was	not	impossibly	large:	he	was	thirty-two,	she	nineteen.)	Two	years
later	Salomon’s	son	Anselm	married	Nathan’s	eldest	daughter	Charlotte.	There
was	then	a	ten-year	lull,	until	the	marriage	of	Nathan’s	eldest	son	Lionel	to
Carl’s	eldest	daughter	
Charlotte—at	a	decisive	turning	point	in	the	history	of	the
family,	as	we	shall	see.	Six	years	after	that,	Nat	married	James’s	daughter
Charlotte	(the	limited	range	of	names	adds	to	the	genealogical	complexity);	and

--- Page 255 ---
Carl’s	son	Mayer	Carl	married	Nathan’s	third	daughter	Louise.	Although	their
wives	did	not	have	the	surname	“Rothschild,”	Nathan’s	other	sons	Anthony	and
Mayer	also	married	first	cousins:	Louisa	Montefiore	(in	1840)	and	Juliana
Cohen	(in	1850).	(The	former	was	also	a	descendant	of	Mayer	Amschel	as	her
mother	was	Nathan’s	sister	Henrietta;	the	latter	was	Hannah’s	niece.)	And	so	it
went	on,	into	the	fourth	generation.	In	1849	Carl’s	third	son	Wilhelm	Carl
married	Hannah	Mathilde,	Anselm’s	second	daughter;	a	year	later	his	brother
Adolph	married	her	sister	Caroline	Julie.	In	1857	James’s	son	Alphonse	married
Lionel’s	daughter	Leonora;	in	1862	his	brother	Salomon	James	married	Adèle,
Mayer	Carl’s	daughter;	and	in	1877	James’s	youngest	son	Edmond	married
Adelheid,	Wilhelm	Carl’s	second	daughter.	Anselm’s	sons	Ferdinand	and
Salomon	both	married	fellow	Rothschilds:	Lionel’s	second	daughter	Evelina	(in
1865)	and	Alphonse’s	first	daughter	Bettina	(in	1876).	Finally,	Lionel’s	eldest
son	Nathaniel—usually	known	as	“Natty”—married	Mayer	Carl’s	daughter
Emma	Louise	(in	1867);	and	Nat’s	son	James	Edouard	married	her	sister	Laura
Thérèse	(in	1871).
Why	did	they	do	it?	Romantic	love,	the	conventional	modern	rationale	for
marriage,	was	plainly	a	minor	consideration	in	the	eyes	of	the	older	generation,
who	drew	a	distinction	between	a	“marriage	of	convenience”	and	a	“marriage	of
affection”—Carl’s	typology	when	scouring	Germany	for	a	suitable	wife	for
himself.	“I	am	not	in	love,”	he	assured	his	brothers,	when	justifying	his	choice	of
Adelheid	Herz.	“On	the	contrary.	If	I	knew	[of]	another,	I	would	marry	her.”	Nor
did	Amschel	marry	Eva	Hanau	for	love;	according	to	one	contemporary	account,
he	openly	acknowledged	that	“the	one	creature	that	I	ever	really	loved	I	have
never	been	able	to	call	mine”;	and	his	nephew	Anselm	regarded	their	golden
wedding	anniversary	as	marking	“fifty	years	of	matrimonial	struggle.”	Caroline
and	Salomon	were	less	ill	suited	to	one	another;	but	we	have	already	seen	how
little	time	they	spent	together	in	the	years	1812-15,	when	he	was	constantly	on
the	move	as	business—or	rather	as	Nathan—dictated.	Five	years	later	not	much
had	changed:	Caroline	(in	Frankfurt)	was	urging	Salomon	(in	Vienna)	not	to	go
to	St	Petersburg	merely	because	“your	Nathan	wants	you	to”:
That	is	really	incomprehensible;	is	there	anywhere	you	aren’t	expected	to	go?
Please,	dear	Salomon,	do	not	let	yourself	be	
talked	into	it
,	[resist	it]	with	all	your
strength	and	your	considerable	intelligence.	Moreover,	I	do	not	understand	your
letter	very	clearly.	For	there	are	places	in	it	which	seem	to	suggest	that	you	are
going	to	have	to	go	to	Paris	or	even	London.	I	am	usually	willing	to	accept	your
Nathan’s	arguments	for	the	above-mentioned	business.	But	I	cannot	see	the

--- Page 256 ---
justification	for	this	.	.	.	Your	Nathan	cannot	simply	ignore	the	views	of	all	of
you	.	.	.	In	any	event,	dear	Salomon,	you	are	
not
	going	to	London	without	my
knowing	the	reason	why.	Understood,	my	dear	husband?	You	are	
not
	doing	it.
9
If	there	ever	had	been	a	romantic	relationship	between	these	two,	there	was	not
much	left	of	it	by	the	time	Salomon	finally	ended	his	years	of	nomadism	and
settled	in	Vienna.	She	never	joined	him	there,	and	the	son	of	one	of	Salomon’s
senior	clerks	
recalled	that	by	the	1840s	he	had	developed	a	somewhat	reckless
enthusiasm	for	young	girls.
To	be	sure,	love	could	and	did	develop	within	such	marriages.	Nathan’s
relationship	with	Hannah	illustrates	this	well:	her	letters	to	her	“dear	Rothschild”
suggest	a	genuine	affinity,	albeit	one	based	in	large	part	on	a	shared	enthusiasm
for	making	money.
10
	But	such	affinities	were	supposed	to	follow	rather	than
precede	marriage;	they	were	not	elective.	As	for	James,	he	evidently	treated	his
niece	and	wife,	beautiful	and	intelligent	though	she	was,	primarily	as	a	useful
social	asset.	“To	deprive	oneself	of	one’s	wife	is	difficult,”	he	confided	in
Nathan	after	just	months	of	marriage.	“I	could	not	deprive	myself	of	mine.	She	is
an	essential	piece	of	furniture.”	The	James	fictionalised	as	Nucingen	by	Balzac
was	respectful	of	his	wife—indeed,	treated	her	as	an	equal—but	went	to	a
succession	of	mistresses	to	satisfy	his	sexual	needs	and	fell	in	love	only	once:
with	a	courtesan.
The	next	generation	might	have	been	expected	to	be	less	hard-nosed	in	their
attitudes	towards	marriage,	following	the	trend	we	associate	with	the	reign	of
Victoria	(who	successfully	converted	her	own	arranged	marriage	into	a
passionate	romance).	There	is	some	evidence	to	suggest	such	a	softening.
Lionel’s	letters	from	Paris	to	his	cousin	Charlotte,	before	their	wedding	in
Frankfurt	in	1836,	seem	to	indicate	a	genuine	passion.	“Now	that	I	am
separated,”	he	effused	on	January	7,	“I	only	know	the	meaning	of	the	word	and
am	only	able	to	judge	of	my	love,	of	my	entirely	and	devoted	love	for	you	Dear
Charlotte,	&	wish	I	were	able	to	express	it	in	words.	But	I	cannot,	even	in
endeavouring	to	do	so	my	pen	has	fallen	from	my	hand	and	more	than	an	hour
has	passed	thinking	of	you,	without	taking	it	up—”	Her	reply	spurred	him	on:
I	had	passed	several	long	days	anxiously	and	tediously	without	hearing	one	word
from	you	Dearest	Charlotte,	when	I	received	your	few	lines	and	was	then,	for	the
first	time	since	I	have	left,	rendered	happy	for	a	few	minutes,	but	I	am	now	again
in	my	melancholy	state,	your	letter	I	have	read	over	and	over,	and	each	time
have	regretted	more	and	more	the	great	distance	that	now	separates	us.	I	was

--- Page 257 ---
also	grieved	to	see	that	you	still	have	such	an	indifferent	opinion	of	me;	you	talk
of	Amusements,	Occupations	etc.	Do	you	think	I	can	have	any	that	I	do	not
enjoy	with	you	Dear	Charlotte?	I	have	been	invited	everywhere,	been	entreated
to	join	in	some	parties	of	amusement	with	old	friends,	but	have	declined.	The
only	manner	of	passing	my	time	without	being	annoyed	is	when	I	am	alone	at
my	Hotel,	thinking	and	only	thinking	of	you	Dearest	Charlotte	.	.	.
A	week	later,	his	tone	was	was	even	more	desperately	romantic:
It	is	a	little	gratification	in	obliging	you	to	occupy	yourself	with	and	to	think	of,
if	only	for	a	few	minutes,	an	absent	friend,	whose	thoughts	have	never	strayed
for	you,	since	his	departure.	Is	it	the	case	with	others	or	am	I	different	to	the
world	in	large?	I	have	so	much	to	say	to	you	and	feel	so	much	the	want	of
conversing	with	you	Dearest	Charlotte,	that	my	ideas	are	confused.	I	begin	with
the	same	and	end	with	the	same,	and	then	find	myself	in	the	same	place;	if	I
cannot	have	the	happiness	of	telling	you	so	verbally	within	a	short	time,	I	shall
go	mad.
Yet	Lionel	rather	spoiled	the	effect	of	his	love-letters	when	he	added:	“How
happy	[my	parents]	are	to	see	me	so	attached	to	you	and	so	fortunate	as	to	have
obtained	the	favours	of	a	person	of	whom	every	person	speaks	in	such	high
terms,	and	whose	acquaintance	they	are	so	anxious	to	make.”	And	only	months
before,	while	still	on	business	in	Madrid,	he	had	expressed	altogether	less
passionate	sentiments	in	a	letter	to	his	brother	Anthony:
I	will	do	whatever	my	parents	and	uncles	think	best	about	staying	or	returning.	If
Uncle	Charles	[Carl]	is	gone	to	Naples,	it	will	not	be	necessary	for	me	to	go
soon	to	Frankfurt.	Everything	will	therefore	depend	upon	the	family	plans,	as	I
think	it	makes	very	little	difference	for	me	to	go	to	Frankfurt	a	few	months
earlier	or	later	as	I	have	no	particular	fancy	to	get	married	just	immediately,	a
few	weeks	earlier	or	later	makes	no	difference	without	our	good	parents’	wish	to
go	to	Frankfurt.
Moreover,	it	seems	that	Charlotte	(as	Lionel	evidently	realised)	was	still	less
excited	at	the	prospect	of	marrying	her	cousin.	His	letters	to	her	in	fact	suggest	a
combination	of	cribbing	from	fashionable	novels	and	determined	auto-
suggestion—which,	to	give	Lionel	his	due,	seems	to	have	achieved	its	object.	By
the	time	they	were	married,	as	his	brothers	discerned	with	some	surprise,	he
really	did	seem	to	love	her,	even	if	the	feeling	was	not	yet	reciprocated.
In	truth,	then,	Rothschild-to-Rothschild	marriages	of	the	third	generation	were

--- Page 258 ---
no	more	the	products	of	spontaneous	attraction	than	their	parents’	had	been,	even
if	one	or	both	partners	managed	to	summon	up	more	than	affection	for	their
chosen	spouse.	“They	want	to	make	some	arrangement	with	Aunt	Henrietta
about	Billy	[Anthony]	and	Louisa	[Montefiore],”	reported	Lionel	to	his	brothers
on	the	eve	of	his	own	wedding,	rather	as	if	reporting	the	performance	of	stocks
on	the	Frankfurt	bourse.	“Joe	[Joseph	Montefiore]	does	not	find	much	favour	in
H[annah]	M[ayer]’s	good	graces.	He	runs	after	Louise	who	takes	no	notice	of
him.	Of	young	Charles	[Mayer	Carl]	and	Lou	[Louise]	there	is	nothing	going	on;
they	have	only	spoken	but	a	few	words	with	each	other.”	Immediately	after	the
wedding,	he	was	able	to	provide	an	update:	“H[annah]	M[ayer]	and	J[oseph
Montefiore]	do	not	take	much	notice	of	each	other.	The	latter	runs	after	L[ouise]
who	is	also	courted	by	another	cousin	[Mayer	Carl]	who	has	taken	a	fancy	to	her.
Please	God,	it	will	be	a	match	and	he	will	be	doubly	my	Brother	in	Law.”	His
mother	was	watching	the	marriage	market	equally	closely.	Mayer	Carl,	she
reported,	“is	more	agreeable	&	communicative	than	I	expected	and	very	capable
if	he	pleases	to	make	an	impression	on	a	young	lady’s	heart.	I	fancy	him	now	to
be	more	manly	than	our	other	young	beau;	there	is	no	alteration	in	Mayer,	no
flirtation	between	him	and	the	other	Charlotte	Rothschild,	therefore	whoever	is
to	be	the	happy	man	at	a	future	period,	will	have	no	cause	for	jealousy.”	Six
years	later	she	married	her	daughter	Louise	off	to	the	said	Mayer	Carl,	while	the
“other	Charlotte”—who	had	been	barely	eleven	years	old	when	she	first
discussed	her	prospects—married	her	son	Nat.
The	typically	Victorian	corollary	of	this	system	of	arranged	marriages	was	that
male	Rothschilds	were	allowed	to	“sow	wild	oats”:	the	personal	letters	which
Nathan’s	sons,	nephews	and	their	friends	exchanged	hint	at	a	number	of
premarital	liaisons.	These	were	tolerated	by	the	older	generation	provided
nothing	took	place	which	might	impede	or	damage	the	system	of	intermarriage.
In	1829,	for	
example,	Anthony—who	was	evidently	the	playboy	of	the
generation—overstepped	the	mark	by	forming	too	serious	an	attachment	with	an
unidentified	(but	unsuitable)	girl	in	Frankfurt.	His	father	angrily	summoned	him
home,	accusing	Amschel	of	having	failed	in	his	avuncular	duties.
The	first	and	most	important	reason	for	the	strategy	of	intermarriage	was
precisely	to	prevent	the	five	houses	drifting	apart.	Related	to	this	was	a	desire	to
ensure	that	outsiders	did	not	acquire	a	share	in	the	five	brothers’	immense
fortune.	Like	most	arranged	matches	of	the	period,	each	marriage	was	therefore
accompanied	by	detailed	legal	agreements	governing	the	property	of	the	two
contracting	parties.	When	James	married	Betty,	she	acquired	no	right	to	his

--- Page 259 ---
property,	but	her	dowry	of	1.5	million	francs	(£60,000)	remained	part	of	her	own
distinct	property	and,	had	he	predeceased	her	without	issue,	she	would	have
recouped	not	only	the	dowry	but	a	further	2,250,000	francs.	When	Anselm
married	Charlotte	a	year	later,	she	received	not	only	a	dowry	of	£12,000	(in
British	stocks)	from	her	father,	but	a	further	£8,000	from	her	uncle	and	new
father-in-law	“for	her	separate	use,”	and	£1,000	from	Anselm	as	a	kind	of	pre-
nuptial	down-payment;	while	Anselm	got	£100,000	from	his	father	and	£50,000
from	Nathan.	Such	large	dowries	were	easily	given	when	the	money	was	staying
in	the	family.
But,	mercenary	considerations	aside,	there	was	also	a	genuine	social	difficulty
in	finding	suitable	partners	outside	the	family.	By	the	mid-1820s	the	Rothschilds
were	so	immensely	rich	that	they	had	left	other	families	with	similar	origins	far
behind.	Even	as	early	as	1814	the	brothers	had	found	it	hard	to	find	a	suitable
husband	for	their	youngest	sister	Henrietta,	only	deciding	on	Abraham
Montefiore	(to	whom	Nathan	was	already	related	through	his	sister-in-law)	after
much	agonising.	Their	original	choice,	a	man	named	Holländer,	had	seemed
unsuitable	to	Carl	not	because	Henrietta	did	not	love	him—that	was	neither	here
nor	there—but	because,	as	he	put	it,	“There	seems	a	horrible	crowd	connected
with	the	Holländers	.	.	.	[T]o	tell	the	truth	young	men	of	good	class	are	very	rare
these	days.”	On	the	other	hand,	the	man	she	loved,	Kaufmann,	was	“a	crook.”	A
decade	later,	when	the	brothers’	eldest	sister	Schönche	(also	known	as	Jeannette
or	Nettche)	was	persuaded	by	Amschel	and	Salomon	to	remarry	following	the
death	of	her	husband	Benedikt	Worms,	her	younger	brothers	disapproved.	As
James	complained	to	Nathan,	her	new	husband	was	merely	an	impecunious
stockbroker	from	the	Judengasse:
She	has	nothing	to	live	on	and	she	told	my	wife	that	she	doesn’t	have	any	bread
in	the	house.	The	man	is	a	scoundrel.	He	gambled	her	dowry	away.	Today	he
went	to	the	Bourse	again	and	perhaps	he	will	earn	again	what	he	lost.	However	I
don’t	believe	that	he	will.	Tell	me,	what	is	your	opinion?	Do	we	want	to	make
something	for	her	every	year?	In	the	meantime	I	personally	gave	her	a	present	of
several	thousand	francs.
By	this	time	only	a	Rothschild	would	really	do	for	a	Rothschild.
Nothing	illustrates	better	the	exclusiveness	of	both	the	partnership	system	and
the	intermarriage	policy	than	the	experience	of	Joseph	Montefiore	in	August
1836.	Though	his	mother	Henrietta	was	born	a	Rothschild,	his	suggestion	(in	the
wake	of	her	brother	Nathan’s	death)	that	he	might	be	“taken	as	one	of	the

--- Page 260 ---
partners	in	the	Firm”	elicited	an	icy	response	from	Lionel.	“He	was	averse	to
this,”	Montefiore	told	his	uncle	Moses,	“alleging	that	there	were	already	too
many	[partners]	and	that	it	
would	be	a	bad	precedent,	however	that	I	might	ask
my	Uncles	at	Frankfort,	and	that	he	should	vote	with	the	majority,	observing	that
if	I	became	a	partner	I	must	change	my	name	to	that	of	Rothschild.”	This	was
plainly	calculated	to	kill	the	idea,	and	it	had	the	desired	effect:	Montefiore	“most
decidedly	did	not	like	this	condition”	and	indeed	“approved	of	it	so	little	that
[he]	resolved	not	even	to	speak	about	it	to	[his]	Uncles.”	As	the	next	best	thing,
this	thick-skinned	young	man	then	suggested	that	he	might	join	the	London
house	without	the	status	of	a	partner	but	with	the	possibility	of	marrying	Lionel’s
sister	Hannah	Mayer.	But	this	proposal	too	was	rejected,	as	we	shall	see.
There	was	a	danger	in	the	policy	of	intermarriage,	however,	which	the
Rothschilds	can	scarcely	have	realised.	Prohibitions	on	cousin	marriage	had
been	widespread	within	Christian	culture	since	the	sixth	century,	when	Pope
Gregory	ruled	that	“the	faithful	should	only	marry	relations	three	or	four	times
removed.”	In	nineteenth-century	America,	eight	states	passed	laws	criminalising
cousin	marriage	and	a	further	thirty	made	it	a	civil	offence.	William	Cobbett
even	cited	the	fact	that	“Rothschild	married	his	own	niece”	as	an	argument
against	Jewish	emancipation.	But	Jewish	law	had	no	such	restrictions,	while	the
enforced	exclusiveness	of	the	ghetto	in	a	town	like	Frankfurt	positively
encouraged	cousin	marriage.	It	was	not	until	later	in	the	nineteenth	century	that
the	scientific	study	of	heredity	began,	and	only	in	the	second	half	of	the
twentieth	century	that	a	real	understanding	of	the	effects	of	cousin	marriage	and
other	forms	of	group	endogamy	has	been	reached	by	geneticists.	It	is	now
known,	for	example,	that	the	high	incidence	among	Ashkenazi	Jews	of	Tay-
Sachs	disease—a	condition	which	fatally	damages	the	brain—is	the	legacy	of
centuries	of	marriage	between	relatively	closely	related	individuals.	Marrying	a
cousin—especially	when	the	family	had	spent	centuries	in	the	Frankfurt	ghetto
—was	from	a	strictly	medical	point	of	view	risky,	no	matter	what	the	financial
rationale.	If	either	Mayer	Amschel	or	Gutle	had	carried	a	single	copy	of	a
harmful	recessive	gene,	then	every	time	two	of	their	grandchildren	married	(and
it	happened	four	times),	there	would	have	been	a	one	in	sixteen	chance	of	
both
partners	inheriting	a	copy	of	the	damaged	gene;	in	which	case	their	children
would	have	had	a	one	in	four	chance	of	receiving	two	copies	of	it	and	hence
suffering	from	the	disease	in	question.
The	Rothschilds	were	fortunate	not	to	fall	victim	to	the	kind	of	recessive	gene
which	spread	haemophilia	through	the	ranks	of	nineteenth-century	royalty.	The

--- Page 261 ---
only	indication	of	poor	health	in	the	next	generation	is	the	fact	that,	of	Mayer
Amschel’s	forty-four	great-grandchildren,	six	died	before	the	age	of	five.	By
modern	standards	that	is	a	high	level	of	infant	mortality	(13.6	per	cent	compared
with	0.8	per	cent	today);	on	the	other	hand,	around	25	per	cent	of	all	children
died	before	their	fifth	birthday	in	Western	Europe	in	the	1840s.	Of	course,	the
alternative	possibility	exists	that	there	was	a	Rothschild	“gene	for	financial
acumen,”	which	intermarriage	somehow	helped	to	perpetuate.	Perhaps	it	was
that	which	made	the	Rothschilds	truly	exceptional.	But	that	cannot	easily	be
demonstrated,	it	seems	unlikely,	and,	even	if	it	was	the	case,	those	concerned
knew	nothing	of	it.

--- Page 262 ---
SEVEN
Barons
When	[Rothschild]	obtained	the	.	.	.	title	[of	baron],	it	was	said,“Montmorency	est
le	premier	Baron	Chrétien,	et	Rothschild	est	le	premier	Baron	Juif.”
—THOMAS	RAIKES
	
	
	
	
Amschel’s	garden	in	the	Bockenheimer	Landstrasse	was	a	symbol	of
emancipation	from	the	ghetto.	However,	it	would	be	wrong	to	suggest	that	his
brothers	and	their	descendants	were	motivated	solely	by	the	same	yearnings	as
Amschel	in	their	decisions	to	purchase	property.	As	Carl’s	counter-proposal	for	a
more	imposing	town	house	suggests,	considerations	of	economic	utility	and
social	prestige	also	required	more	spacious	residences—a	place	where	members
of	the	political	elite	could	be	wined	and	dined	in	comfort.	Two	possibilities	were
discussed	at	the	same	time	that	Amschel	was	buying	his	garden:	the	purchase	of
more	elegant	town	houses;	and	the	purchase	of	country	estates.
Carl	got	his	way	in	Frankfurt	with	the	purchase	in	1818	of	the	relatively
modest	house	at	33	Neue	Mainzer	Strasse.	In	Nathan’s	case,	the	need	for	a	town
house	separate	from	New	Court	was,	of	course,	even	more	pressing:	by	1817	he
and	Hannah	had	no	fewer	than	five	children—all	under	ten—and	another	on	the
way.	(As	yet,	all	his	brothers	apart	from	Salomon	were	still	childless,	and
Salomon	had	only	Anselm	and	Betty,	who	lived	in	relative	comfort	with	their
mother	in	the	Schäfergasse	house	in	Frankfurt.)	In	June	1817	Nathan	therefore
offered	the	stockbroker	James	Cazenove	£15,750	“payable	in	cash	immediately”
for	Grosvenor	House.	Characteristically,	however,	Nathan	refused	to	pay	more
than	he	thought	an	investment	was	worth:	when	Cazenove	demanded	£19,000

--- Page 263 ---
the	deal	fell	through.	In	fact,	it	was	not	until	1825—by	which	time	there	were
seven	children—that	Nathan	finally	acquired	the	lease	on	107	Piccadilly	from	a
member	of	the	Coutts	family.	At	the	same	time,	Moses	Montefiore,	his	brother-
in-law	and	neighbour	in	St	Swithin’s	Lane,	also	moved	west	to	Green	Street,	off
Park	Lane.
James,	of	all	the	brothers	the	most	aesthetically	and	socially	ambitious,	was
quicker	off	the	mark.	In	1816	or	1817	he	moved	from	his	original	quarters	in	the
rue	Le	Peletier	to	the	rue	de	Provence	in	the	Chaussée	d’Antin	(Paris’s	main
financial	centre,	in	the	9th	arrondissement).	This	did	not	satisfy	him,	however,
for	in	December	1818	he	bought	the	hôtel	at	19	rue	d’Artois	(renamed	rue
Laffitte	in	1830)	which	had	been	built	for	the	banker	Laborde	before	the
Revolution,	and	occupied	during	the	Empire	by	Hortense,	the	daughter	of
Josephine,	and	Napoleon’s	Police	
Minister	Fouché.	Twelve	years	later,	his
brother	Salomon	bought	the	house	next	door	(17	Rue	Laffitte),	though	it	was	not
until	the	mid-1830s	that	the	work	of	renovation	and	redecoration	of	both	houses
was	complete.
1
	Only	in	Vienna	did	it	prove	impossible	to	purchase	a	town	house
in	this	period:	Salomon	continued	to	rent	the	Hotel	zum	Römischen	Kaiser	in	the
Renngasse	until	in	1842	he	finally	secured	an	exemption	from	the	rule	barring
Jews	from	owning	property	in	the	imperial	capital.
Nathan,	Salomon	and	James	also	lost	no	time	in	acquiring	places	in	the
country—though	it	should	be	remembered	that	in	those	days,	before	the	growth
of	London	and	Paris	and	the	development	of	railways,	it	was	neither	feasible	nor
necessary	to	travel	far	in	search	of	a	rural	retreat;	“suburban	retreat”	might	be	a
more	accurate	description.	Nathan’s	first	step	in	this	direction	was	taken	in	1816,
when	he	purchased	what	his	sister	Henrietta	called	“a	beautiful	country	estate”—
in	fact	an	eight-acre	property	on	the	road	between	Newington	and	Stamford	Hill
in	the	Parish	of	St	John	at	Hackney.	It	was	there,	rather	than	in	New	Court,	that
he	and	his	family	thenceforth	lived—in	contrast	to	James,	who	continued	to	live
“over	the	shop,”	just	a	short	distance	away	from	the	bourse	and	the	Banque	de
France.	It	was	not	until	nearly	twenty	years	later	that	Nathan	moved	westwards
(and	upwards),	buying	the	larger	and	more	distinguished	Gunnersbury	Park	near
Acton.	Built	in	1802	for	George	III’s	youngest	daughter	Amelia,	Gunnersbury
was	a	large	Italianate	villa	with	extensive	gardens	including	a	small	ornamental
lake	and	a	neo-classical	“temple.”	Nathan	commissioned	the	architect	Sydney
Smirke	to	enlarge	the	building,	adding	an	orangerie	and	a	dining	room,	and	to
enliven	the	austere	façade	with	some	fake	marble	decoration;	he	also	consulted
the	landscape	specialist	John	Claudius	Loudon	about	the	park.

--- Page 264 ---
Nathan	himself	remained	at	heart	an	urban	creature:	country	life—even	at
Stamford	Hill—did	not	really	suit	him.	“One	of	my	neighbours,”	he	told	Buxton
a	year	before	the	move	to	Gunnersbury,	“is	a	very	ill-tempered	man;	he	tries	to
vex	me,	and	has	built	a	great	place	for	swine,	close	to	my	walk.	So,	when	I	go
out,	I	hear	first	grunt,	grunt,	squeak,	squeak.”	Though	he	was	quick	to	insist	that
“this	does	me	no	harm,	I	am	always	in	good	humour,”	it	is	hard	to	miss	the
confirmed	city-dweller’s	unease	with	the	alien	world	of	agriculture.	It	may	just
have	been	the	smell,	of	course,	but	Nathan	may	also	have	suspected	that	his
neighbour’s	choice	of	livestock	had	an	anti-Jewish	connotation.	Nor—in	marked
contrast	to	James	and	his	own	sons—did	he	have	the	slightest	desire	to	ride,	hunt
or	watch	horses	race.
2
	In	this	passage	from	
Endymion
,	Disraeli	evidently	had
Nathan	(here	“Neuchatel”)	and	Gunnersbury	(“Hainault	House”)	in	mind:
[Neuchatel]	was	always	preparing	for	his	posterity.	Governed	by	this	passion,
although	he	himself	would	have	been	content	to	live	forever	in	Bishopsgate
Street	.	.	.	he	had	become	possessed	of	a	vast	principality,	and	which,	strange	to
say,	with	every	advantage	of	splendour	and	natural	beauty,	was	not	an	hour’s
drive	from	Whitechapel.
Hainault	House	had	been	raised	by	a	British	peer	in	the	days	when	nobles
were	fond	of	building	Palladian	palaces	.	.	.	[I]n	its	style,	its	beauty,	and	almost
in	its	dimensions,	[it]	was	a	rival	of	Stowe	or	Wanstead.	It	stood	in	a	deer	park,
and	was	surrounded	by	a	royal	forest.	The	family	that	had	raised	it	wore	out	in
the	earlier	part	of	this	century.	It	was	supposed	that	the	place	must	be	destroyed
and	dismantled	.	.	.	
Neuchatel	stepped	in	and	purchased	the	whole	affair—
palace,	and	park,	and	deer,	and	pictures,	and	halls,	and	galleries	of	statue	and
bust,	and	furniture,	and	even	wines,	and	all	the	farms	that	remained,	and	all	the
seigneurial	rights	in	the	royal	forest.	But	he	never	lived	there.	Though	he	spared
nothing	in	the	maintenance	and	the	improvement	of	the	domain,	except	on	a
Sunday	he	never	visited	it,	and	was	never	known	to	sleep	under	its	roof.	“It	will
be	ready	for	those	who	come	after	me,”	he	would	remark,	with	a	modest	smile.
Although	we	know	that	Nathan	did	sometimes	stay	there	during	the	week	as
well,	there	seems	little	doubt	that	he	bought	Gunnersbury	primarily	for	the	sake
of	his	children;	and	it	was	not	until	two	years	after	his	death	that	the	house	was
used	for	large-scale	entertainment.
In	France,	James	and	Salomon	both	bought	houses	outside	Paris,	beginning	in
1817	when	James	acquired	what	was	in	effect	a	summer	house	with	a	three	acre
garden	at	Boulogne-sur-Seine.	Nine	years	later	Salomon	bought	the	rather

--- Page 265 ---
grander	house	across	the	river	at	Suresnes	built	for	the	duc	de	Chaulnes	in	the
eighteenth	century.	With	its	ten	acres	situated	on	the	banks	of	the	Seine	(near
what	is	now	the	rue	de	Verdun),	it	played	a	similar	role	to	Gunnersbury	as	a
country	residence	within	convenient	distance	of	the	city.	James	waited	until	1829
before	buying	the	much	bigger	hunting	estate	at	Ferrières,	with	its	dilapidated
château	and	1,200	acres	some	twenty	miles	to	the	east	of	Paris.	Unlike	Nathan,
James	genuinely	seems	to	have	enjoyed	country	life.	He	looked	forward	to
sleeping	at	Ferrières	as	soon	as	he	had	bought	it	and	when	Hannah	Mayer	visited
him	and	Betty	there	in	1833,	she	found	them	happily	“superintending	a	little
farm.”
For	the	Rothschilds	based	in	Frankfurt	and	Vienna,	however,	the	purchase	of
rural	estates	had	to	wait.	Amschel	himself	observed	that	“the	first	question
anyone	asks	in	Germany	is:	‘Do	you	have	a	country	estate?’	”	But	he	and	Carl
agreed	that	it	would	be	a	mistake	to	rise	to	this	socially	alluring	bait.	The
ownership	of	an	estate	implied	a	claim	to	aristocratic	status	which	the	ownership
of	a	mere	garden	did	not,	and	they	evidently	feared	that	evincing	such	delusions
of	grandeur	would	fuel	the	anti-Jewish	backlash	of	the	post-war	period.	At	the
same	time,	they	doubted	the	economic	rationality	of	buying	agricultural	land.
What	did	they	know	about	farming?	“Often	these	estates	bring	in	not	more	than
two	per	cent,”	warned	Carl—indicating	that	the	brothers	were	still	inclined	to
regard	land	as	just	another	form	of	investment.	Such	attitudes	persisted:
Rothschild	purchases	of	land	in	the	next	generation	were	always	based	on
calculations	of	future	yield;	and	the	family	managed	its	immovable	assets	as
carefully	as	the	more	liquid	components	of	its	portfolio.
	
Society
The	original	and	most	frequently	cited	justification	for	acquiring	these	properties
had	been	typically	instrumental:	each	of	the	brothers	needed	a	large	and
respectable	house	in	which	to	entertain	the	ministers	and	diplomats	who	were
their	most	important	clients.	The	acid	test	of	this	strategy	was	whether	the	sort	of
figures	the	Rothschilds	wished	to	entertain	would	accept	their	invitations.	It	was
an	uphill	struggle.
In	December	1815	Buderus—the	brothers’	trusted	partner	in	their	dealings
with	Wilhelm	of	Hesse-Kassel—threw	a	ball.	“Bethmann,	Gontard,	and	all	the
ministers	
and	merchants	are	invited,”	complained	Amschel	bitterly.	“We	lent	the
silver.	[But]	the	
Finanzräte
	Rothschild	are	again	left	out	and	not	invited.”	Carl’s
theory	was	that	Buderus	was	embarrassed	by	his	former	intimacy	with	them:

--- Page 266 ---
“He	thinks	we	do	not	feel	the	proper	respect	for	him,	and	that	he	therefore	could
not	appear	before	us	in	such	a	dignified	state.	For	you	ought	to	know	that
honours	and	profits	do	not	go	hand	in	hand.”	There	was	a	similar	snub	three
months	later,	when	Amschel	was	bluntly	informed	that,	had	he	been	invited,
“rumours	would	have	gone	round	that	we	had	paid	for	the	ball.”	At	around	the
same	time,	Amschel	complained	that	Gontard	refused	to	see	him	too	frequently
on	business	lest	his	friends	“start	to	treat	him	as	a	Jew.”	Their	exclusion	as	Jews
from	the	Frankfurt	Casino	(gentlemen’s	club)	also	rankled.
The	tables	could	be	turned,	however.	In	May	1816	Salomon	gave	a	dinner	to
which	he	invited	the	leading	members	of	the	diplomatic	corps,	as	well	as
Bethmann	and	Gontard.	All	accepted.	As	a	Rothschild	cousin	related	with	glee:
Today	Kessler	[a	Frankfurt	broker]	asked	me	at	the	Stock	Exchange	whether	it
was	true	that	it	was	really	so	exquisite	at	the	Rothschilds’	house.	Apparently
there	was	much	talk	about	it	at	the	casino.	He	also	wanted	to	know	who	was
present.	I	mentioned	the	Ministers,	Bethmann,	Gontard	etc.	I	assure	you	that
Bethmann	as	well	as	Gontard	were	full	of	praise,	saying	that	it	was	a	very	lively
affair	and	that	Madame	Rothschild	knew	how	to	arrange	everything	well.
Bethmann	especially	liked	the	children,	Anselm	and	Betty;	he	said	that	Betty
had	a	fine	education.
When	one	of	the	family’s	most	ardent	foes	heard	that	“Gontard	was	dining	with
Salomon,	he	said:	‘Mr	Gontard	as	well?’	and	sighed	.	.	.	He	seemed	upset	and
that	is	something.”	Three	months	later	Amschel	and	Carl	threw	an	even	larger
dinner,	principally	for	the	diplomatic	representatives	of	the	larger	German	states.
Among	those	present	was	Wilhelm	von	Humboldt.	The	exercise	was
successfully	repeated	a	year	later.	Only	the	Frankfurt	Bürgermeister	and	one
other	invitee	declined	to	attend.
The	speed	of	this	shift	in	attitudes	astonished	the	Bremen	Bürgermeister
Smidt,	one	of	the	most	determined	opponents	of	Jewish	emancipation	of	all	the
state	delegates	in	Frankfurt.	“Right	up	until	the	end	of	last	year,”	he	commented
in	August	1820,
it	was	against	all	customs	and	habits	of	life	to	admit	a	Jew	into	so-called	“good
society.”	No	Frankfurt	banker	or	merchant	would	invite	a	Jew	to	dine	with	him,
not	even	one	of	the	Rothschilds,	and	the	delegates	to	the	Confederal	Diet	had
such	regard	for	this	custom	that	they	did	the	same.	Since	my	return	I	find	to	my
great	astonishment	that	people	like	the	Bethmanns,	Gontards	[and]	Brentanos	eat
and	drink	with	the	leading	Jews,	invite	them	to	their	houses	and	are	invited	back,

--- Page 267 ---
and,	when	I	expressed	my	surprise,	I	was	told	that,	as	no	financial	transaction	of
any	importance	could	be	carried	through	without	the	co-operation	of	these
people,	they	had	to	be	treated	as	friends,	and	it	was	not	desirable	to	fall	out	with
them.	In	view	of	these	developments,	the	Rothschilds	have	also	been	invited	by
some	of	the	ambassadors.
It	was	not	long	before	Amschel	was	inviting	him	too.	He	accepted.	By	the	1840s
Amschel	was	routinely	giving	such	dinners	“about	once	a	fortnight	[to]	all
visitors	of	rank.”
In	Vienna	it	proved	much	harder	to	overcome	the	traditional	social	barriers.
Although	Metternich	had	no	objection	to	“taking	soup”	with	Amschel	in
Frankfurt	in	1821,	the	Austrian	capital	was	a	different	matter.	Contemporary
comment	strongly	suggests	that	social	life	in	Vienna	remained	more	segregated
along	religious	lines	than	elsewhere.	In	the	1820s,	Gentz	remarked,	the	Jewish
“aristocracy	of	money”	tended	to	dine	and	dance	together,	apart	from	the
aristocracy	proper.	When	the	English	writer	Frances	Trollope	(the	novelist’s
mother)	visited	Vienna	in	the	1830s,	she	encountered	the	same	schism:
Neither	in	London	nor	in	Paris	is	there	anything	in	the	least	degree	analogous	to
the	station	which	the	bankers	of	Vienna	hold	in	their	society.	Their	wealth	as	a
body	is	enormous	and,	therefore,	as	a	body	they	are,	and	must	be,	of	very
considerable	influence	and	importance	to	the	state	.	.	.	And	yet	with	all	this—
with	title,	fortune,	influence	and	a	magnificent	style	of	living—the	bankers	are
as	uniformly	unadmitted	and	inadmissible	in	the	higher	circles,	as	if	they	had
continued	as	primitively	unpretending	in	station	as	their	goldsmith	progenitors.
Trollope	was	no	unbiased	observer,	of	course.	She	herself	disliked	being
“surrounded	.	.	.	at	the	the	largest	and	most	splendid	parties	of	the	monied
aristocracies	.	.	.	by	a	black-eyed,	high-nosed	group	of	.	.	.	unmistakable	Jews”	(a
prejudice	which	she	managed	to	pass	on	to	her	son).	But,	writing	in	the	1830s,	it
was	not	unreasonable	for	her	to	doubt:
how	far	they	are,	or	will	ever	be	kindly	or	affectionately	amalgamated	with	the
other	members	of	this	Christian	and	Catholic	Empire	.	.	.	Their	power,	as	a	rich
body,	is	very	great	and	penetrates	widely	and	deeply	amongst	some	important
fibres	of	the	body	politic;	but	they	are	not,	perhaps,	the	better	loved	for	this	by
their	Christian	fellow	subjects,	and	the	consequence	is,	that	their	social	position
is	more	pre-eminently	a	false	one	than	that	of	any	set	of	people	I	have	ever	had
an	opportunity	of	observing	.	.	.	No	one	who	visits	Vienna	with	his	eyes	open

--- Page 268 ---
and	mixes	at	all	in	society,	but	will	find	reason	to	agree	with	me	in	the	opinion
that	any	attempt	to	blend	Christians	and	Jews	in	social	and	familiar	union	may
answer	for	an	hour	or	a	day,	but	will	not	eventually	lead	to	affection	or	tolerance
on	either	side.
Only	in	the	late	1830s	were	senior	political	figures	willing	to	accept
invitations	to	dine	with	Salomon	in	the	Hotel	zum	Römischen	Kaiser.	The
Metternichs	did	so	in	January	1836,	along	with	Princess	Marie	Esterházy	and	a
number	of	other	distinguished	guests	who	were	duly	impressed	by	his	French
chef.	But	when	Count	Kolowrat	accepted	an	invitation	from	Salomon	(evidently
for	the	first	time)	in	1838,	“some	people	of	his	own	position	in	society	told	him
that	this	was	giving	offence.	‘What	would	you	have	me	do?’	he	said.	‘Rothschild
attached	such	enormous	importance	to	my	coming	that	I	had	to	sacrifice	myself
to	the	interests	of	the	service,	as	the	State	needs	him.’	”
Nathan	had	fewer	difficulties.	Foreign	ambassadors	and	other	dignitaries
accepted	his	invitations	to	dinner	from	an	early	stage:	he	dined	with	the
Humboldts	in	1818,	as	we	have	seen,	Chateaubriand	dined	with	him	in	1822,	and
the	Esterházys	were	regular	guests.	Prince	Pückler’s	letters	record	a	number	of
different	social	occasions	at	Nathan’s,	including	a	“splendid	dinner”	in	1828,	the
dessert	of	which	was	served	on	solid	gold	dishes.	What	is	not	certain	is	whether
Nathan’s	apparently	close	relations	with	Tory	politicians	like	Herries,	Vansittart
and	Wellington	extended	as	far	as	the	dinner	table:	quite	possibly	the	greater	part
of	the	conversations	he	had	with	such	figures	took	place	in	their	offices.	By
contrast,	proponents	of	Jewish	emancipation	among	the	Whig	aristocracy	like
the	Duke	of	St	Albans	and	the	Earl	of	Lauderdale	were	happy	to	dine	with	him,
as	was	the	historian	Thomas	Babington	Macaulay,	a	prominent	supporter	in	the
Commons,	who	was	a	Rothschild	guest	in	1831.	It	also	seems	reasonable	to
assume	that	most	of	the	visiting	English	aristocrats	whom	James	invited	to
dinner	in	Paris	had	already	been	entertained	by	Nathan:	“your	charming	Lady
Londonderry,”	for	example,	whom	James	“stuffed”	with	best	British	venison
provided	by	Nathan	in	1833;	and	the	Duke	of	Richmond,	whom	he	invited	to
dinner	a	year	later.	The	brothers’	careful	cultivation	of	the	British	royal	family
and	its	Saxe-Coburg	relations	also	paid	social	dividends	(though	it	was	not	until
after	Nathan’s	death	that	the	Duke	and	Duchess	of	Cambridge	accepted	an
invitation	to	Gunnersbury).	In	the	winter	of	1826	Carl	played	host	to	Leopold	of
Saxe-Coburg,	entertaining	him	with	amateur	dramatics,	“balls	and	soirees”	at	his
villa	in	Naples.	Then,	as	now,	members	of	the	social	elite	found	it	difficult	to
resist	the	offer	of	Mediterranean	hospitality	in	the	middle	of	the	North	European

--- Page 269 ---
winter.	The	Montefiores	also	found	Carl	entertaining	and	being	entertained	by
the	indigenous	aristocracy	when	they	visited	him	in	1828.
Of	all	the	Rothschild	brothers,	James	made	the	most	determined	effort	to
achieve	social	success;	perhaps	his	superior	education	gave	him	the	confidence
to	do	so.	In	1816,	equipped	with	a	handbook	of	etiquette,	he	scored	his	first
success,	inviting	the	duc	de	Richelieu’s	private	secretary	to	dinner	
à	deux
.	But	he
too	encountered	resistance.	Despite	the	social	upheavals	of	the	Revolutionary
and	Napeolonic	eras,	the	French	capital	was	far	from	free	of	snobbery	and
prejudice,	and	he	was	treated	to	an	especially	flagrant	snub	from	his	rivals
Baring	and	Labouchère	in	1818.	It	was	not	until	March	2,	1821,	that	James
really	launched	himself	as	a	society	host	with	his	first	full-scale	ball	in	the
refurbished	rue	d’Artois	hôtel.	The	somewhat	world-weary	Berliner	Henrietta
Mendelssohn	described	how
for	the	past	two	weeks	nothing	has	been	talked	about	in	the	world	of	the	great
and	the	rich	here,	save	a	ball	which	Herr	Rothschild	finally	gave	yesterday
evening	in	his	new	and	magnificently	decorated	house.	As	yet	I	have	no	details
as	to	how	it	went,	but	I	can	scarcely	believe	it	was	other	than	as	I	have	heard	for
more	than	ten	days—I	do	not	exaggerate—from	people	of	every	age	and	class:
that	800	people	were	invited	and	at	least	as	many	besieged	him	with	visits,
letters	and	pleas	in	the	hope	of	getting	an	invitation	.	.	.	As	I	am	presently	feeling
—for	whatever	reason—daily	more	miserable	and	peevish,	I	did	not	make	use	of
my	invitation	to	this	ball,	though	it	was	sent	by	Herr	Rothschild	with	the	most
courteous	billet	ever	written.
The	campaign	was	relentless.	In	April	1826	the	Austrian	ambassador
described	a	sumptuous	meal	
chez
	“M.	de	Rothschild”	attended	not	only	by	the
other	ambassadors	of	the	great	powers,	but	also	by	Metternich,	the	Duke	of
Devonshire,	the	Russian	Prince	Razumovski	and	a	small	galaxy	of	French
aristocrats:	the	duc	and	duchesse	de	Maillé,	baron	de	Damas	(the	French	Foreign
Minister	of	the	day),	the	duc	de	Duras	and	the	comte	de	Montalembert.	A	year
and	a	half	later,	when	the	maréchal	de	Castellane	dined	with	James,	he
encountered	the	English	and	Russian	ambassadors,	the	duc	de	Mouchy	and	the
comte	Juste	de	Noailles.	On	average	James	had	around	four	dinners	a	week,	each
with	at	least	ten	guests	and	sometimes	as	many	as	sixty.	The	night	before	the
birth	of	his	first	child,	Charlotte,	he	had	eighteen	to	dinner;	the	following
evening	twenty-six.
Part	of	the	attraction	of	a	Rothschild	event—as	James	well	knew—was	the

--- Page 270 ---
sheer	extravagance	of	the	hospitality.	As	Henrietta	Mendelssohn	commented
sardonically,	invitations	to	James’s	ball	in	1821	went	to	a	premium	when	it	was
heard	“that	all	the	ladies	would	be	given	a	bouquet	of	flowers	on	entering	the
ballroom	with	a	diamond	ring	or	brooch”	or	that	there	would	at	least	be	“a
lottery	which	would	give	a	prize	to	each	of	the	ladies.”	When	Apponyi	dined
with	him	in	1826,	the	table	was	dominated	by	an	immense	silver-plated	platter	in
the	form	of	a	candelabrum—worth,	Apponyi	guessed,	at	least	100,000	francs—
and	the	food	was	prepared	by	the	famous	chef	Antonin	Carême,	who	numbered
among	his	previous	employers	the	Prince	Regent	and	Tsar	Alexander.	So	rich
was	the	combination	of	turtle	soup	and	madeira	that	a	dyspeptic	Apponyi
resolved	to	pay	the	customary	
visite	de	digestion
	eight	days	later	than	usual.
In	many	ways,	Carême’s	elaborate	cuisine	was	James’s	principal	attraction	in
this	early	phase	of	his	social	ascent.	The	popular	writer	Lady	Sydney	Morgan
was	only	one	of	many	who	drooled	over	his	cooking	when	she	dined	with	James
at	Boulogne:	“[T]he	delicate	gravies	were	made	with	almost	chemical	precision	.
.	.	each	vegetable	still	had	its	fresh	colour	.	.	.	the	mayonnaise	was	whipped	ice
cold	.	.	.	Carême	deserves	a	laurel	wreath	for	perfecting	an	art	form	by	which
modern	civilisation	is	measured.”	The	
coup	de	théâtre
	on	this	occasion	was	an
enormous	cake	with	her	name	inscribed	in	icing	sugar,	surrounded	by	all	the
supporters	of	the	Holy	Alliance.	James	took	pains	to	find	a	worthy	successor	to
Carême	when	he	needed	a	new	cook.	Nor	was	he	the	only	member	of	the	family
to	value	his	chef.	Though	they	themselves	never	tasted	a	mouthful	of	it,	both
Amschel	and	Salomon	insisted	on	providing	their	guests	in	Frankfurt	and	Vienna
with	the	best	of	French	cooking.	Disraeli	was	one	of	the	most	frequent	recipients
of	Rothschild	food	outside	the	immediate	family	itself,	and	his	account	in
Endymion
	of	“delicate	dishes	which	[guests]	looked	at	with	wonder,	and	tasted
with	timidity”	gives	an	idea	of	its	crucial	social	function.
	
Snobbery
Yet,	although	their	invitations	were	accepted,	it	cannot	be	said	that	the
Rothschild	brothers	were	liked.	Contemporaries	found	Nathan	Rothschild	an
intimidating	man:	unprepossessing	in	aspect	and	coarse	to	the	point	of	downright
rudeness	in	manner.	Prince	Pückler	was	given	a	typically	rough	ride	when	he
called	on	“the	ruler	of	the	City”	at	New	Court	for	the	first	time	in	1826:
I	found	the	Russian	consul	there,	engaged	in	paying	his	court.	He	was	a
distinguished	and	intelligent	man,	who	knew	perfectly	how	to	play	the	
role	of

--- Page 271 ---
the	humble	debtor,	while	retaining	the	proper	air	of	dignity.	This	was	made	the
more	difficult	since	the	guiding	genius	of	the	City	did	not	stand	on	ceremony.
When	I	had	handed	him	my	letter	of	credit,	he	remarked	ironically	that	we	rich
people	were	fortunate	in	being	able	to	travel	about	and	amuse	ourselves,	while
on	him,	poor	man,	there	rested	the	cares	of	the	world,	and	he	went	on,	bitterly
bewailing	his	lot,	no	poor	devil	came	to	England	without	wanting	something
from	him.	“Yesterday,”	he	said,	“there	was	a	Russian	begging	of	me”	(an	episode
which	threw	a	bittersweet	expression	over	the	consul’s	face)	“and,”	he	added,
“the	Germans	here	don’t	give	me	a	moment’s	peace.”	Now	it	was	my	turn	to	put
a	good	face	on	the	matter	.	.	.	All	this	in	a	language	peculiarly	his	own,	half
English,	half	German,	the	English	with	an	entirely	German	accent,	yet	all
declaimed	with	an	imposing	self-possession	which	seemed	to	find	such	trifles
beneath	his	notice.
Flattery	was	only	partially	successful.	When	Pückler	and	the	visiting	Russian
declared	“that	Europe	could	not	subsist	without	him”	Nathan	“modestly	declined
our	compliment	and	said,	smiling,	‘Oh	no,	you	are	only	jesting;	I	am	but	a
servant	whom	people	are	pleased	with	because	he	manages	their	affairs	well,	and
to	whom	they	let	some	crumbs	fall	as	an	acknowledgement.’	”	This	was	sarcasm,
as	the	discomfited	Pückler	knew	only	too	well.
In	his	novel	
Tancred
,	Disraeli—who,	as	we	shall	see,	came	to	know	Nathan’s
son	Lionel	well	in	the	1830s—drew	on	similar	recollections	when	describing	his
hero’s	attempt	to	gain	an	audience	with	the	elder	Sidonia,	a	character	at	least
partly	based	on	Nathan:
At	this	moment	there	entered	the	room,	from	the	glass	door,	the	same	young	man
who	had	ushered	Tancred	into	the	apartment.	He	brought	a	letter	to	Sidonia.
Lord	Montacute	felt	confused;	his	shyness	returned	to	him	.	.	.	He	rose,	and
began	to	say	good	morning	when	Sidonia,	without	taking	his	eyes	off	the	letter,
saw	him,	and	waving	his	hand,	stopped	him,	saying,	“I	settled	with	Lord	Eskdale
that	you	were	not	to	go	away	if	anything	occurred	which	required	my
momentary	attention.”	.	.	.
“Write,”	continued	Sidonia	to	the	clerk,	“that	my	letters	are	twelve	hours	later
than	the	despatches,	and	that	the	City	continued	quite	tranquil.	Let	the	extract
from	the	Berlin	letter	be	left	at	the	same	time	at	the	Treasury.	The	last	bulletin?”
“Consols	dropping	at	half-past	two;	all	the	foreign	funds	lower;	shares	very
active.”
They	were	once	more	alone.

--- Page 272 ---
Such	bruising	encounters	in	the	office	were	later	distilled	into	the	famous
“two	chairs”	joke,	probably	the	most	frequently	reprinted	Rothschild	joke,	which
must	surely	have	been	inspired	by	Nathan.	An	eminent	visitor	is	shown	into
Rothschild’s	office;	without	looking	up	from	his	desk,	Rothschild	casually
invites	him	to	“take	a	chair.”	“Do	you	realise	whom	you	are	addressing?”
exclaims	the	affronted	dignitary.	Rothschild	still	does	not	look	up:	“So	take	
two
chairs.”	(One	of	many	variants	has	the	visitor	indignantly	announcing	himself	as
the	Prince	of	Thurn	
und
	Taxis;	Rothschild	implicitly	offers	each	a	chair.)
Nor	was	it	only	on	his	own	territory—his	office—that	Nathan	was	famed	for
his	
blithe	disregard	for	social	rank.	Even	to	the	dining	rooms	of	polite	society	he
brought	the	abrasive	manners	and	harsh,	puncturing	humour	of	the	Frankfurt
Judengasse.	When	Prince	Pückler	was	invited	to	dine	with	Nathan	he	was
“diverted”	to	“hear	him	explain	to	us	the	pictures	around	the	dining	room,	(all
portraits	of	the	sovereigns	of	Europe,	presented	through	all	their	ministers)	and
talk	of	the	originals	as	his	very	good	friends,	and,	in	a	certain	sense,	his	equals”:
“Yes,”	said	he,	“the	____	once	pressed	me	for	a	loan,	and	in	the	same	week	in
which	I	received	his	autograph	letter,	his	father	wrote	to	me	also	with	his	own
hand	from	Rome	to	beg	me	for	Heaven’s	sake	not	to	have	any	concern	in	it,	for
that	I	could	not	have	to	do	with	a	more	dishonest	man	than	his	son.	‘
C’était	sans
doute	très	Catholique
’;	probably,	however,	the	letter	was	written	by	the	old	____
who	hated	her	own	son	to	such	a	degree	that	she	used	to	say	of	him,—everybody
knows	how	unjustly,—‘He	has	the	heart	of	a	t_____	with	the	face	of	an	a____	.’
”
After	a	dinner	at	which	Nathan	had	brutally	deflated	a	fellow	guest,	the	German
ambassador	Wilhelm	von	Humboldt	wrote	to	his	wife:
Yesterday	Rothschild	dined	with	me.	He	is	quite	crude	and	uneducated,	but	he
has	a	great	deal	of	intelligence	and	a	positive	genius	for	money.	He	scored	off
Major	Martins	beautifully	once	or	twice.	M.	was	dining	with	me	too	and	kept	on
praising	everything	French.	He	was	being	fatu-	ously	sentimental	about	the
horrors	of	war	and	the	large	numbers	who	had	been	killed.	“Well,”	said	R.,	“if
they	had	not	all	died,	Major,	you	would	probably	still	be	a	drummer.”	You	ought
to	have	seen	Martins”	face.
Even	in	less	exalted	company	Nathan	could	seem	a	boor:	witness	the	Liberal
MP	Thomas	Fowell	Buxton’s	account	of	Nathan’s	table	talk	at	a	dinner	they	both
attended	at	Ham	House	in	1834.	Here,	it	seems,	is	the	self-made	millionaire	at

--- Page 273 ---
his	self-satisfied	worst,	proffering	pat	explanations	for	his	own	success	and	banal
advice	to	others:
“I	have	seen	.	.	.	many	clever	men,	very	clever	men,	who	had	not	shoes	to	their
feet.	I	never	act	with	them.	Their	advice	sounds	very	well,	but	fate	is	against
them;	they	cannot	get	on	themselves;	and	if	they	cannot	do	good	to	themselves,
how	can	they	do	good	to	me?	.	.	.
“To	give	.	.	.	mind,	and	soul,	and	heart,	and	body,	and	everything	to	business;
that	is	the	way	to	be	happy.	I	required	a	great	deal	of	boldness	and	a	great	deal	of
caution	to	make	a	great	fortune;	and	when	you	have	got	it,	it	requires	ten	times
as	much	wit	to	keep	it.	If	I	were	to	listen	to	all	the	projects	proposed	to	me,	I
should	ruin	myself	very	soon.	Stick	to	one	business,	young	man	.	.	.	stick	to	your
brewery,	and	you	may	be	the	great	brewer	of	London.	Be	a	brewer,	and	a	banker,
and	a	merchant,	and	a	manufacturer,	and	you	will	soon	be	in	the	Gazette.”
When	a	guest	at	the	same	dinner	expressed	the	hope	“that	your	children	are	not
too	fond	of	money	and	business,	to	the	exclusion	of	more	important	things.	I	am
sure	you	would	not	wish	that,”	Nathan	retorted	bluntly:	“I	am	sure	I	should	wish
that.”
Nathan	struck	some	who	encountered	him	as	a	tight-fisted	philistine.	The
ornithologist	Audubon	recalled	failing	to	persuade	Nathan	to	subscribe	to	his
lavishly	illustrated	
Birds	of	America
,	instead	sending	him	the	work	in	advance	of
payment.	But	when	Nathan	was	presented	with	the	bill	he	“looked	at	it	with
amazement	and	cried	out,	‘What,	a	hundred	pounds	for	birds!	Why	sir	I	will	give
you	five	pounds,	and	not	a	farthing	more!’	”	A	frequently	repeated	anecdote	has
Nathan	telling	the	composer	Louis	Spohr:	“I	understand	nothing	of	music.
This”—patting	his	pocket	and	making	his	money	rattle	and	jingle—“is	my
music;	we	understand	that	on	’Change.”	In	another	he	responds	irritably	to	a
request	for	a	charitable	contribution:	“Here!	Write	a	cheque;	I	have	made	one
[damned]	fool	of	myself!”	Buxton	was	shocked	by	Nathan’s	somewhat	crass
attitude	towards	philanthropy.	“Sometimes,”	he	explained,	“to	amuse	myself,	I
give	a	beggar	a	guinea.	He	thinks	it	is	a	mistake,	and	for	fear	I	shall	find	it	out,
off	he	runs	as	hard	as	he	can.	I	advise	you	to	give	a	beggar	a	guinea	sometimes;
it	is	very	amusing.”	It	was	entirely	in	character	for	him	to	point	out	to	his	own
dinner	guests	that	a	particular	service	had	cost	£100.
The	notion	that	an	ill-educated	Jew	could	behave	this	way	in	polite	society
and	get	away	with	it	purely	on	account	of	his	newly	acquired	and	largely	paper
wealth	variously	fascinated	and	appalled	contemporaries,	depending	on	their

--- Page 274 ---
social	position	and	philosophical	attachment	to	the	traditional	hierarchical	order.
Prince	Pückler,	for	example,	did	not	apparently	resent	the	way	Nathan	teased
him	when	he	first	presented	himself	at	New	Court	with	his	credit	note.	On	the
contrary,	he	summed	him	up	as	“a	man	who	one	cannot	deny	has	geniality	and
even	a	kind	of	great	character	.	.	.	really	
un	très	bon	enfant
	and	generous,	more
than	others	of	his	class—as	long,	that	is,	as	he	is	sure	he	is	not	risking	anything
himself,	which	one	can	in	no	way	hold	against	him	.	.	.	This	man	is	really	a
complete	original.”	As	we	have	seen,	Humboldt	was	also	condescendingly
amused	by	the	combination	of	bad	manners,	sharp	wit	and	lack	of	deference
which	Nathan	brought	to	polite	society.
In	the	Paris	of	the	Bourbon	Restoration,	by	contrast,	James’s	many	
faux	pas
—
his	unprompted	introduction	of	his	own	wife	to	the	duc	d’Orléans,	for	example,
or	his	use	of	Count	Potocki’s	Christian	name	Stanislas—were	viewed	with
distaste.	Like	so	many	of	James’s	socially	superior	guests,	the	maréchal	de
Castellane	did	not	much	care	for	his	host	even	as	he	accepted	his	hospitality:
“His	wife	.	.	.	is	pretty	enough	and	very	well-mannered.	She	sang	well,	though
rather	tremulously;	her	German	accent	is	disagreeable.	James	.	.	.	is	small,	ugly,
arrogant,	but	he	gives	banquets	and	dinners;	the	grand	seigneurs	make	fun	of
him	and	yet	are	no	less	delighted	to	go	to	his	house,	where	he	brings	together	the
best	company	in	Paris.”
According	to	Moritz	Goldschmidt’s	son	Hermann,	whose	memoir	is	one	of	the
few	detailed	first-hand	descriptions	we	have,	Salomon	was	even	more	lacking	in
social	graces.	“Why	should	I	eat	badly	at	your	place,	why	don’t	you	come	and
eat	well	at	mine,”	he	was	once	heard	to	reply	to	a	dinner	invitation	from	the
Russian	ambassador.	Another	“highly	placed	personality”	who	asked	for	a	loan
received	a	blunt	negative:	“Because	I	don’t	want	to.”	Salomon	therefore	“seldom
went	into	high	society,	[because]	he	felt	that	because	of	his	lack	of	education	he
would	have	to	play	a	difficult	and	uncomfortable	role,”	and	preferred	to	leave
“intercourse	with	the	beau	monde”	to	Goldschmidt’s	father.	On	the	rare
occasions	when	he	did	have	the	Metternichs	to	dine	with	him,	he	could	not	resist
vulgar	displays	of	wealth,	showing	them	the	contents	of	his	safe	as	a	post-
prandial	treat.	Even	in	his	own	more	familiar	(that	is,	Jewish)	circle,	he	cut	a
coarse	figure.	If	his	barber	was	late	in	the	morning—and	Salomon	habitually
rose	at	3	a.m.—he	would	be	reviled	as	“an	ass.”	If	someone	came	into	the	office
smelling	slightly,	Salomon	would	press	his	handkerchief	to	his	nose,	open	the
window,	and	shout:	“Throw	him	out,	the	man	stinks.”	He	dined	unsociably	early
at	6.30	p.m.	and	habitually	drank	two	bottles	of	wine	before	going	for	a	stroll	in

--- Page 275 ---
the	park	with	“blindly	loyal	toadies	and	hangers-on.”	When	he	visited	the
Goldschmidts	at	their	house	in	Döbling	on	Sundays	he	flirted	with	the	prettier
girls	present	“in	a	manner	which	was	not	always	proper	or	polite.”	This	included
cracking	crude	jokes	if	any	women	present	were	pregnant.
It	is	not	that	all	these	stories	are	wholly	misleading;	no	doubt	Nathan	and	his
brothers	did	seem	to	many	who	met	them	like	the	incarnation	of	“new	money,”
with	all	its	rough	edges.	Nothing	makes	the	point	more	explicit	than	the	1848
cartoon	(produced	as	the	first	of	a	series	of	“Pictures	from	Frankfurt”)	which
cruelly	juxtaposed	Moritz	von	Bethmann	and	Amschel,	the	former	elegant	on	his
coach	and	four,	the	latter	slouched	atop	a	money	box	(see	illustration	7.i).Yet
such	judgements	are	not	the	best	kinds	of	historical	evidence.	Firstly,	they	tell	us
only	how	the	Rothschilds	
seemed
	to	others.	Secondly,	because	“new	money”	has
been	the	object	of	scorn	for	more	than	2,000	years,	there	are	tropes	which	tend	to
be	repeated	no	matter	how	little	the	
nouveau	riche
	individual	in	question	actually
conforms	to	the	stereotype.	The	brothers’	own	letters	tell	a	very	different	story.
In	fact,	the	brothers	themselves	disliked	intensely	the	great	majority	of	social
functions	they	gave.	Amschel	“thanked	God”	when	his	dinners	were	over,	and
Carl	thought	them	expensive	“humbug”—“it	was	very	nice,	but	the	money	was
nicer,”	he	commented	when	the	chef	they	had	hired	presented	his	bill.
“However,”	he	con-ceded,	“it	is	as	good	as	bribes”:	it	is	noteworthy	that	at	least
five	of	the	guests	at	the	1817	dinner	also	received	parcels	of	the	new	city	of	Paris
loan.	In	Berlin	too,	where	he	had	relatively	little	difficulty	in	securing
prestigious	invitations	from	Hardenberg	and	the	British	and	Austrian
ambassadors,	Carl	retained	his	scepticism	about	the	value	of	such	socialising:	“I
don’t	really	care,	because	I	find	we	always	do	better	business	with	those	who	do
not	invite	us.”	Nathan	was	as	much	out	of	his	natural	element	in	the	ballroom	or
the	salon	as	in	the	countryside.	As	Amschel	said	of	him	in	1817,	if	Nathan	gave
a	mere	tea	party,	he	felt	his	morning	had	been	“stolen.”	Even	his	daughter
Charlotte	expressed	a	utilitarian	view	in	1829	when	she	hoped	that	“the	Season
will	be	very	lively	as	this	is	always,	I	think,	an	encouragement	for	trade.”

--- Page 276 ---
7.i:	Ernst	Schalk	and	Philipp	Herrlich,
	
Baron	Moritz	von	Bethmann	and
Baron	Amschel	von	Rothschild,	Bilder	aus	Frankfurt,
	
Nr.	1	(1848).
James	shed	light	on	his	brother’s	fundamentally	anti-social	temperament
when,	contemplating	yet	another	ball,	he	said:	“I	now	feel	exactly	as	you	do.	I
would	gladly	stay	at	home	and	don’t	want	to	drive	myself	crazy	with	all	the
rubbish.”	He	too	was	much	less	enamoured	of	such	occasions	than	his
condescending	guests	generally	assumed.	From	the	outset,	he	took	much	the
same	functional	view	of	socialising.	“I	think	of	nothing	else	but	business,”	he
assured	Nathan.	“If	I	attend	a	society	party,	I	go	there	to	become	acquainted	with
people	who	might	be	useful	for	the	business.”	To	prove	the	point,	early	social
contacts	like	Richelieu’s	secretary	were	pumped	for	useful	information.
Privately,	James	admitted	to	being	weary	of	his	lavish	balls;	he	continued	to	give
them,	he	confessed	to	Nathan	in	January	1825,	only	lest	people	think	he	could	no
longer	afford	to.	“My	dear	Nathan,”	he	wrote	wearily,
I	am	obliged	to	give	a	ball	because	the	world	claims	that	I	am	broke,	for	the
people	who	have	become	accustomed	to	my	giving	three	to	four	balls,	as	I	did
during	the	previous	winter,	will	otherwise	set	their	tongues	wagging,	and	quite
honestly	the	French	are	evil	people.	Well,	the	carnival	takes	place	next	week	and
I	wish	it	were	already	over.	I	give	you	my	word	that	my	heart	is	not	in	it	but	one
must	do	everything	to	put	on	a	show	for	the	world.

--- Page 277 ---
Six	years	later,	in	the	wake	of	the	revolutionary	crisis	of	1830,	Charlotte
discerned	the	same	link	between	her	uncle’s	economic	performance	and	his
sociability:	although	Betty	felt	too	“fatigued”	to	give	“her	customary	balls,”	“the
rentes	still	[continue]	to	rise	so	rapidly	[that]	James	would	be	disposed	to	give
them.”	As	we	shall	see,	throwing	balls	was	one	of	the	vital	ways	in	which	James
signalled	to	the	Parisian	beau	monde	that	he	had	survived	the	financial	and
political	storm	of	1830.
	
	
The	Honours	“Racket”
It	was	not	only	by	giving	parties	that	the	Rothschilds	sought	to	transcend	the
traditional	social	barriers	which	confronted	Jews,	no	matter	how	wealthy,	in
Restoration	Europe.	In	a	social	world	still	dominated	by	a	hierarchy	of	ranks	and
orders,	they	hastened	to	acquire	formal	marks	of	status	for	themselves.	It	is
perhaps	a	sign	of	how	fragile	the	restored	Metternichian	regime	was	that	they
found	this	exceedingly	easy:	that	is	the	real	point	of	the	“Jew	baron”	story
quoted	at	the	beginning	of	this	chapter.
Perhaps	the	most	striking	illustration	of	this	point	is	the	fact	that	the
Rothschilds	were	able	to	acquire	noble	status	from	the	Emperor	Francis	II	as
early	as	1817.	This	
was	arranged	in	Vienna	after	lobbying	by	the	Austrian
Treasury	official	Schwinner,	the	Finance	Minister	Stadion	and	Metternich,	and
was	seen	by	them	primarily	as	a	reward	for	the	Rothschilds’	role	in	paying
British	subsidies	and	French	reparations	payments	to	Austria.	The	significance
of	this	should	not	be	exaggerated,	of	course.	The	Rothschilds	were	not	the	first
Jews	to	be	elevated	in	this	way:	six	other	families	had	been	ennobled	(though	all
the	others	had	converted	to	Christianity	by	1848).	Nor	did	ennoblement	by	the
Habsburg	Emperor	connote	social	elevation	of	the	sort	achieved	two	generations
later,	when	Nathan’s	grandson	Natty	Rothschild	was	given	a	hereditary	peerage
by	Queen	Victoria.	Like	the	Austrian	currency,	the	Austrian	nobility	had	been
debased	compared	with	its	more	exclusive	British	counterpart.	On	the	other
hand,	ennoblement	gave	the	brothers	three	valuable	assets:	the	right	to	the	prefix
“von”	(“de”	in	France	and	England);	a	coat	of	arms	(albeit	not	quite	the
grandiose	design	they	had	originally	hoped	for);	and,	in	1822,	the	title	“Freiherr”
(“Baron”	in	France	and	England).
3
Nor	were	these	the	only	trophies	of	social	ascent	which	the	Rothschilds	picked
up	in	the	years	after	1814.	Just	as	their	father	before	them	had	sought	to	enhance

--- Page 278 ---
his	prestige	by	acquiring	the	title	of	
Hoffaktor
	and	court	banker	from	as	many
courts	as	possible,	so	too	his	sons	and	grandsons	applied	to	be	appointed
“Financial	Councillors”	by	the	family’s	old	friend	the	Elector	of	Hesse-Kassel,
and	later	by	the	King	of	Prussia.	Such	titles	were	purely	honorific,	but	socially
useful	because	they	entitled	the	bearer	to	wear	a	uniform,	almost	a	
sine	qua	non
when	attending	court	functions.	The	titles	of	Austrian	consul,	which	was	secured
for	Nathan	in	1820,	and	consul-general,	which	he	and	James	received	in	1821-2
as	rewards	for	their	financial	support	during	the	Neapolitan	crisis,	had	essentially
the	same	sartorial	significance,	though	notionally	they	also	entailed	some
responsibility	for	protecting	Habsburg	commercial	interests	in	Britain	and
France.	That	the	Rothschilds	made	use	of	such	uniforms	can	be	seen	from	a
variety	of	contemporary	references.	As	early	as	1817	Carl	sought	permission	to
wear	the	navy	and	gold	uniform	of	the	Hessian	Kriegscollegium.	James	was
spotted	in	1825	wearing	his	red	consular	outfit	to	Charles	X’s	coronation	at
Rheims.	Two	years	later	the	young	Charles	Bocher	mistook	him	for	an	English
general	when	saw	him	emerging	from	the	Tuileries	in	his	scarlet	coat	with	gold
epaulettes.
A	uniform	was	good;	but	a	uniform	with	decorations—medals,	ribbons	or
braid—was	better.	These	too	the	brothers	began	to	thirst	after	from	as	early	as
1814.	In	late	1817	Carl	was	publicly	presented	with	a	ribbon	by	the	Prussian
Chancellor	Hardenberg,	having	found	himself	one	of	only	two	people	at	the
Prussian	court	with	nothing	on	his	chest.	A	year	later	the	Grand	Duke	of
Darmstadt	bestowed	orders	on	James.	When	he	and	Salomon	both	received	the
Order	of	St	Vladimir	from	the	Tsar	during	the	Congress	of	Verona	in	1822,
Salomon	made	sure—through	Gentz—that	it	was	reported	in	the	German	press.
A	year	later	James	added	the	Knight’s	Cross	of	the	French	Legion	of	Honour	to
his	tally	(though	he	did	not	become	a	full	member	of	the	Legion	until	1841).	By
1827	Salomon	was	sufficiently	blasé	to	request	an	order—the	Constantine	Order
of	St	George—for	his	senior	clerk,	Leopold	Wertheimstein,	for	services	rendered
to	the	Duchess	of	Parma.	When	Nat	went	to	Constantinople	in	1834—the	first
Rothschild	to	do	so—he	could	not	conceal	his	excitement	at	the	prospect	of	a
new	and	exotic	gong:
You	do	not	know	what	it	is	to	be	received	by	the	Sultan,	no	person	of	inferior
rank	than	a	minister	plenipotentiary	can	be	presented	at	court—I	however
consider	myself	Ambassador	.	.	.	&	consequently	have	a	right	to	the	most
brilliant	reception.—The	Sultan	signified	that	it	was	his	intention	to	bestow	a
mark	of	his	satisfaction,	but	I	do	not	know	whether	it	is	to	be	a	ring,	a	snuffbox

--- Page 279 ---
or	a	grand	decoration—I	hope	the	latter.	I	have	already	given	them	to	understand
that	the	diamond	crescent	will	be	the	most	acceptable.
As	his	letter	suggests,	royal	gifts	like	rings	and	engraved	snuffboxes,	though	not
unwelcome,	were	second	best.
The	Rothschilds’	pursuit	of	titles	and	orders	is	often	seen	as	a	kind	of	absurd
foible:	a	“weakness”	for	imitating	the	nobility,	as	Capefigue	put	it.	That	is
undoubtedly	the	way	it	seemed	to	established	nobles.	Metternich	suspected	them
of	“vanity”	and	“a	craving	for	honours	and	distinctions”;	while	critics	of	the
Restoration	regime,	notably	Heine,	mocked	their	apparent	deference	to
aristocratic	mores.
4
	Yet	the	brothers	themselves	privately	viewed	these	mores
with	a	certain	amount	of	contempt.	Coats	of	arms	were,	as	Carl	put	it,	“part	of
the	racket.	As	for	uniforms,	James	privately	joked	that	“if	you	go	to	see	a
Minister	here,	you	must	always	be	made	up	as	if	on	a	visit	to	your	bride.”	The
brothers	even	parodied	their	new	titles	on	occasion:	Carl,	for	example,	addressed
one	letter	to	“James	de	Rothschild,	Knight	of	the	Society	for	the	Liberation	of
Christian	Slaves	[
sic
],	Financial	Councillor	of	Electoral	Hesse	etc.	etc.	etc..”
When	the	King	of	Denmark	also	invited	him	“to	ask	for	a	title,”	he	could	only
ask:	“What	are	we	going	to	do	with	all	these	titles?”	Indeed,	when	he	was
offered	“a	ribbon	with	a	buckle	such	as	soldiers	wear”	by	the	Elector	of	Hesse-
Kassel,	he	turned	it	down	as	beneath	his	dignity.	Nor	were	the	Rothschilds
willing	to	pay	over	the	odds	for	badges	of	status:	when	Nat	heard	that	the
Austrian	government	wished	to	provide	his	brother	Lionel	with	a	consular
secretary—at	an	annual	cost	to	the	firm	of	£500—he	was	outraged:	“For	my	part
I	wd.	see	the	whole	consulate	at	the	deuce	before	I	would	pay	£500	a	year	for	it
&	have	a	disagreeable	fellow	to	be	master	.	.	.	I	should	like	to	know	who	will
pay	£500	a	year	for	the	honor	of	being	Austrn.	Consul.”	Even	Amschel,	in	many
ways	the	most	susceptible	of	all	the	family	to	such	things,	knew	their	place.	As
he	put	it	in	1814,	“If	we	had	always	worried	about	what	other	people	were	going
to	think,	we	would	now	be	left	with	a	great	many	decorations	etc.,	but	without
money.	And	in	the	end,	we	would	be	left	without	praise,	without	decorations	and
without	money.”	“The	highest	decoration,”	in	his	view,	was	“a	quiet	life,	God
willing.”
There	were	two	arguments	for	nevertheless	accepting	such	honours.	The	first,
as	we	have	seen,	was	that	they	improved	the	partners’	access	to	the	corridors	of
power.	The	second	argument	was	that	titles	and	other	honours	were	“a	mark	of
distinction	for	our	nation”—that	is,	for	European	Jewry.	The	Rothschilds’

--- Page 280 ---
ennoblement	was	widely	interpreted	in	Frankfurt	as	a	slap	in	the	face	for	those	in
the	town	who	wished	to	to	reimpose	the	old	disabilities	on	Jews.	“[I]f	one	Jew	is
a	Baron	every	Jew	is	a	Baron:”	that	was	how	they	saw	it	in	the	Judengasse.	In
the	same	way,	Nathan’s	appointment	as	Austrian	consul	in	London	was	“a	lucky
thing	for	the	Jews”	according	to	Carl.	Even	the	fact	that	the	brothers	could	be
awarded	decorations	with	explicitly	Christian	insignia—the	names	of	saints,
even	the	sign	of	the	cross	itself—	was	regarded	as	a	kind	of	victory.	Though
Amschel	refused	to	accept	such	orders,	Carl	had	no	hesitation	in	accepting	the
ribbon	and	star	of	the	newly	founded	Order	of	St	George	from	Pope	Gregory
XVI	in	1832,	while	Lionel	accepted	the	Order	of	Isabella	from	the	Queen	of
Spain	three	years	later.	As	Heine	noted,	the	Order	had	originally	been
established	“to	glorify	the	expulsion	of	the	Jews	and	Moors	from	Spain”;	how
piquant	that	“Herr	von	Shylock	zu	Paris”	should	thus	be	acknowledged	as	“the
mightiest	Baron	of	Christendom.”	Certainly,	it	seemed	that	way	to	scandalised
Christian	commentators	like	the	Austrian	Baron	Kübeck:
His	Holiness	receives	a	member	of	the	House	of	Rothschild,	and	with	heavenly
forbearance	the	representative	of	Jesus	Christ	on	earth	decorates	a	descendant	of
the	people	that	allowed	Christ	to	be	put	to	death,	with	the	ribbon	and	star	of	a
newly	founded	order	of	St	George,	and	in	return	allows	his	hand	instead	of	his
foot	to	be	kissed.	And	still	Rothschild	refuses	to	become	a	Christian.
In	this	light,	perhaps	the	hardest	thing	to	explain	is	Nathan’s	apparent	doubt
about	the	value	of	such	honours.	For	example,	a	number	of	letters	would	seem	to
suggest	that	he	was	offered	but	turned	down	the	offer	of	a	knighthood	(or
“Night-hood,”	as	James	wrote	it)	in	1815	or	1816.	When	someone	tried	to	tell
Carl	that	his	brother	had	accepted,	he	refused	to	believe	it	“because	you	love
simplicity.”	The	1816	ennoblement	patents	conspicuously	omitted	Nathan,	and
the	approved	coat	of	arms	showed	four	arrows	instead	of	five.	Furthermore,
unlike	his	brothers	and	eldest	son,	he	rarely	used	the	title	“Baron”	or	the	prefix
“de.”	Was	this	a	matter	of	milieu,	as	Corti	suggested—a	desire	not	to	be	too
publicly	associated	with	reactionary	Austria?
5
	Mace	argues	that	there	is	a	more
practical	explanation:	although	Nathan	secured	the	right	to	bear	arms	in	1818
(hence	legitimising	the	fifth	arrow),	when	he	applied	to	the	Royal	College	of
Arms	for	registration	of	the	Austrian	title	in	1825	he	was	turned	down—
probably	because	he	had	only	received	his	own	royal	letters	patent	of	denization
eight	years	before.	However,	it	may	also	have	been	partly	because,	as	Amschel
thought,	Nathan	just	“did	not	want”	to	be	ennobled.	Thus,	when	Nathan	declined

--- Page 281 ---
a	Prussian	decoration	in	1818,	he	suggested	that	it	be	given	to	Salomon	instead
because	“here	in	London	I	have	no	use	for	such	a	thing”	whereas	“my	brother	.	.
.	loves	ribbons	and	is	a	Baron	who	intends	to	live	in	Paris,	where	one	can
decorate	oneself	with	such	things.”	James	too	was	at	first	reluctant	to	call
himself	“de	Rothschild.”	“Let	us	remain	merchants,”	he	urged	his	brothers	in
1816.	“It	is	extremely	nice	to	possess	the	title	and	not	to	make	use	of	it,	except	in
private.”	A	positive	business	letter	from	a	finance	minister	was	“worth	more	than
all	the	titles	of	nobility.”
But,	while	James’s	reservations	faded	quickly,	in	Nathan’s	case	disdain	for
aristocratic	trappings	persisted,	and	perhaps	ran	deeper.	When	Prince	Pückler
visited	the	English	Rothschilds	in	1827,	he	was	treated	to	a	bizarre	after-dinner
performance,	as	an	evidently	tipsy	Nathan	donned	“his	new	Austrian	consular
uniform,	which,	as	he	said,	his	friend	M[etternich]	had	send	him	from	Vienna”:
[He]	showed	it	to	us,	and	even	suffered	himself	to	be	persuaded	to	try	it	on
before	the	looking	glass,	and	to	walk	about	in	it.	And,	as	virtuosi	when	they	have
once	begun	never	know	when	to	stop,	he	now	sent	for	
other	magnificent	Court
dresses,	and	changed	his	toilette	several	times,	as	if	he	had	been	on	the	stage	.	.	.
It	was	.	.	.	rather	droll	to	see	how	this	otherwise	serious	tradesman	like	man
tried	to	assume	the	various	bendings	and	bowings,	and	the	light	and	gracious	air,
of	a	courtier,	and,	not	in	the	least	disconcerted	by	our	laughing,	assured	us,	with
as	much	confidence	as	joviality	that	N.M.R.,	if	he	liked,	could	act	any	part;	and,
with	the	help	of	five	or	six	glasses	of	wine	extra,	could	make	as	good	a	figure	at
Court	as	the	best	of	them.
As	Pückler’s	evidently	somewhat	mixed	feelings	suggest,	this	was	surely	a
characteristic	bid	by	Nathan	to	
épater	l’aristocratie
.	He	might	be	willing	on
occasion	to	exchange	his	sober	surtout	for	the	gaudy	apparel	of	the	old	order;	but
he	regarded	it	as	little	more	than	fancy	dress.	In	its	way,	this	vivid	scene—of	a
tipsy	Jewish	banker	making	fun	of	the	Habsburg	Empire’s	diplomatic	finery	in
front	of	an	impecunious	prince—encapsulates	the	deep	ambivalence	of	the
Rothschilds’	relationship	with	the	Restoration	social	order.
	
“Fine	Education”
Despite	their	reputation	as	philistines,	the	younger	Rothschild	brothers	took	at
least	some	interest	in	what	we	would	now	call	“high	culture”—something	of	a
misnomer	given	the	rapid	development	of	a	“public	sphere”	in	this	period	as	a
more	or	less	free	market	for	the	production	and	consumption	of	music,	drama,

--- Page 282 ---
books	and	paintings.	This	interest	was	partly	a	logical	consequence	of
entertaining	in	the	ways	described	above:	it	was,	at	the	very	least,	difficult	to
own	a	large	house	without	acquiring	pictures	and	other	ornaments	to	decorate	its
rooms.	At	the	same	time,	in	order	to	be	able	to	communicate	with	members	of
the	social	elite	about	matters	other	than	money	and	politics,	a	basic	knowledge
of	their	favourite	painters,	composers	and	authors	was	a	prerequisite.	Yet	busy
middle-aged	bankers	(all	the	brothers	save	James	were	over	forty	in	1820)
generally	make	poor	students	of	the	arts.	True,	they	had	all	inherited	from	their
father	an	appreciation	of	antique	
objets	d’art
,	and	were	discerning	about	the	gifts
they	sent	their	favourite	politicians.	They	commissioned	portraits	of	themselves,
their	wives	and	children	from	respectable	artists	like	Sir	William	Beechey,	Louis
Amié	Grosclaude	and	Moritz	Daniel	Oppenheim;
6
	and	in	both	Frankfurt	and
Paris	they	had	regular	boxes	reserved	at	the	theatre.	But	James	was	the	only
member	of	the	second	generation	to	show	any	serious	interest	in	culture	on	his
own	account.	He	read	Schiller	and	Goethe	when	he	was	in	his	twenties,	for
example,	and	in	the	1820s	retained	an	artist	named	Allard	on	5	francs	a	month,
as	well	as	subscribing	to	the	
Courrier	des	Spectacles
	and	
Journal	des	Théâtres
.
His	brothers	tended	to	take	the	view	that	this	sort	of	thing	was	better	made
available	to	their	children.
The	obvious	is	perhaps	worth	stating	here:	if	the	Rothschild	brothers	really
had	been	philistines,	they	would	not	have	educated	their	children	as	well	as	they
did.	Of	course,	Nathan	wanted	his	sons	“to	give	mind,	and	soul,	and	heart,	and
body,	and	everything	to	business”;	at	the	time	he	made	that	much	misunderstood
remark,	all	but	one	of	them	had	completed	their	educations	and	had	been
working	for	the	firm	for	several	years.	And	he	and	his	brothers	recognised	that
there	might	be	a	conflict	
between	
higher
	education	and	a	successful	business
apprenticeship.	As	Carl	put	it	when	Salomon	was	pondering	the	fifteen-year-old
Anselm’s	future:	“I	advise	you	not	to	let	him	study	.	.	.	more	than	another	two
years	so	that	he	should	enter	the	business	when	17	years	old.	Otherwise	he
would	not	be	deeply	attached	to	business.”	The	subsequent	business	career	of
Mayer,	the	only	one	of	Nathan’s	sons	to	attend	an	English	university,	proved	that
analysis	to	be	only	too	accurate.	But	none	of	the	brothers	for	a	moment	doubted
that	a	successful	business	career	was	compatible	with	the	best	possible
secondary
	education.	Indeed,	they	viewed	the	latter	as	an	essential	preparation
for	the	former.	Moreover,	the	male	Rothschilds	of	the	third	generation	were	in
practice	given	even	longer	than	Carl	suggested	before	being	expected	to	abandon
their	studies	and	enter	the	“counting	house.”	Judging	by	the	first	appearance	of

--- Page 283 ---
his	name	in	the	business	correspondence,	Anselm	was	twenty-three	before	he
took	a	serious	part	in	the	running	of	the	firm	(though	he	was	admitted	a	partner	a
year	earlier,	and	presumably	did	routine	work	for	his	father	which	has	gone
unrecorded).	Lionel	was	twenty	when	he	first	began	to	write	and	receive
business	letters;	Anthony	and	Nat	were	eighteen,	and	Mayer	twenty-one.	None
of	Carl’s	sons	feature	in	the	firm’s	deliberations	before	the	age	of	twenty;	indeed,
the	pious	Wilhelm	Carl	was	not	really	regarded	as	competent	to	act	unsupervised
until	he	was	twenty-four.	Both	James’s	sons,	Alphonse	and	Gustave,	were
nineteen	before	they	began	to	write	their	own	business	letters.	Given	their
parents’	view	that	the	best	apprenticeship	was	learning	by	doing,	there	is	little
reason	to	think	that	any	of	the	third	generation	had	worked	for	long	before	these
first	recorded	appearances.
In	any	case,	the	older	Rothschilds	had	no	desire	to	impose	on	their	offspring
the	deprivations	and	rigours	of	their	own	childhoods.	Anselm’s	mother	took
pride	in	her	eleven-year-old	son’s	precocious	letter-writing	not	just	because	it
would	stand	him	in	good	stead	in	business;	she	genuinely	wanted	him	and	his
sister	to	have	“a	fine	education”	for	its	own	sake.	The	influence	on	her	of
contemporary	notions	of	
Bildung
	is	apparent	in	a	letter	she	wrote	to	her	husband
in	1820	(which	accompanied	another	letter	from	their	now	teenage	son):	“He	is
so	uninhibited	towards	me,	the	good,	sweet	boy,	which	pleases	me	particularly,
for	you	know,	dear	husband,	that	it	has	always	been	my	aim	that	our	dear
children	should	not	conceal	from	us	their	true,	innermost	feelings;	and	I—or
rather	we—have	achieved	it.”	Nathan	indulged	his	children	in	less	sentimental
ways.	After	work,	he	played	with	them,	letting	them	(as	a	friend	recalled)	“make
their	equestrian	exercises	on	your	back’;	indeed,	on	one	occasion	he	horsed
around	so	energetically	that	he	managed	to	dislocate	his	shoulder.	He	bought
them	a	miniature	carriage	with	four	white	goats	to	drive	about	the	garden	at
Stamford	Hill.	The	family	painted	by	William	Armfield	Hobday	in	1821	was—
as	it	looks	today—a	happy	one:	to	the	left,	the	three-year-old	Mayer	tries	to	pull
a	letter	from	his	father’s	hand;	at	Charlotte’s	feet,	Hannah	Mayer	has	dropped
her	bonnet;	and	the	older	boys	vainly	attempt	to	restrain	the	family	dog	as	it
chews	Lionel’s	hat.	Small	wonder	the	faintest	hint	of	a	smile	plays	on	the	lips	of
the	relaxed	
paterfamilias
	as	he	reclines,	legs	crossed,	in	his	armchair.
7
	And	he
continued	to	indulge	them—even	to	spoil	them—as	they	grew	up.	At	the	age	of
seventeen,	Hannah	Mayer	was	enjoying	life	in	Brighton,	sitting	for	her	first
portrait.	When	Thomas	Fowell	Buxton	met	Anthony	the	following	year,	he	was
already	“a	mighty	hunter;	and	his	father	lets	him	buy	any	horses	he	likes.	He

--- Page 284 ---
lately	applied	to	the	emperor	of	Morocco	for	a	first-rate	Arab	horse.	The
emperor	sent	him	a	magnificent	one,	but	he	died	as	he	landed	in	England.	The
poor	youth	said	very	feelingly,	‘that	was	the	greatest	misfortune	he	ever	had
suffered.’	”
In	
Coningsby
,	Disraeli	portrayed	the	younger	Sidonia	as	a	model	of	modern
education:
Shut	out	from	universities	and	schools,	those	universities	and	schools	which
were	indebted	for	their	first	knowledge	of	ancient	philosophy	to	the	learning	and
enterprise	of	his	ancestors,	the	young	Sidonia	was	fortunate	in	his	tutor	.	.	.	[He]
penetrated	the	highest	mysteries	of	mathematics	with	a	facility	almost	instinctive
.	.	.	The	circumstances	of	his	position,	too,	had	early	contributed	to	give	him	an
unusual	command	over	the	modern	languages	.	.	.	When	he	was	nineteen,
Sidonia	.	.	.	possessed	a	complete	mastery	over	the	principal	European	languages
.	.	.	At	seventeen	he	.	.	.	commenced	his	travels.	He	resided	.	.	.	some	time	in
Germany,	and	then,	having	visited	Italy,	settled	at	Naples	.	.	.
This	was	not	far	removed	from	the	kind	of	education	Lionel	and	his	brothers	and
cousins	actually	received.	One	of	the	Montefiores	recalled	how	in	1815	Lionel
and	Anthony	had	been	taken	away	from	their	first	teacher,	“a	Pole	[who]	used	to
wear	a	tall	Polish	hat	and	stride	about	the	schoolroom	with	a	cane	ferociously
stuck	in	his	Wellington	boots.”	Instead,	their	parents	and	some	friends	“got
Garcia,	who	was	previously	a	book-keeper	at	Barrow	and	Lousada’s	counting
house,	to	establish	a	more	select	academy	at	Peckham,	and	there	Lionel	and
Anthony	.	.	.	were	sent.”	The	favoured	curriculum	was	indeed	modern,	rather
than	classical,	and	that	slant	continued	when	the	time	came	for	a	kind	of
modified	grand	tour	in	1827.	Aged	respectively	nineteen	and	seventeen,	the	two
boys	were	despatched	to	see	the	sights	of	Germany—not	Italy,	the	classicist’s
favoured	destination—travelling	with	their	tutor	John	Darby	from	Frankfurt
through	the	principal	towns	of	Saxony,	then	on	to	Prague	and	Vienna,	returning
via	Baden	and	Strasbourg.	(Prussia	was	conspicuously	omitted,	though	they	do
seem	to	have	gone	to	Hanover	in	order	to	visit	the	university	at	Göttingen.)	The
aim	was	obviously	to	acquire	a	grounding	in	German	
Kultur
:	besides	trailing
round	countless	art	galleries	and	princely	piles,	the	brothers	paid	a	respectful	call
on	the	aged	Goethe.
It	was	only	after	this	tour	that	Lionel	and	Anthony	were	expected	to	turn	their
minds	to	business:	in	January	1829	one	of	the	bookkeepers	in	the	Frankfurt
office	was	entrusted	with	the	task	of	raising	Anthony’s	numeracy	to	the	level

--- Page 285 ---
required	of	a	banker.	“I	ceaselessly	instruct	him	in	all	the	arithmetical	problems,”
the	new	tutor	reported	to	Nathan,	“and	I	am	glad	to	perceive	that	he	has	the
intellectual	grasp	and	makes	good	use	of	what	I	have	to	teach	him.	In	due	course
I	shall	give	to	the	young	Baron	systematically	the	knowledge	of	the	art	of
arithmetic	and	I	shall	continue	to	explain	to	him	arbitration	of	exchange	and	all
of	the	business	circulation	of	the	counting	house.”
Visits	like	the	one	made	by	Nathan’s	sons	to	Frankfurt	evidently	encouraged	a
degree	of	Anglo-German	parental	rivalry.	In	1831	Charlotte	wrote	to	her	mother
Hannah	urging	her	to	“make	[Mayer]	write	a	letter	in	German	if	he	can,	if	not,	in
his	best	writing	in	English	to	Mrs	S[alomon]	de	R[othschild].	Uncle	Charles’s
boys	[Mayer	Carl	and	Wilhelm	Carl]	both	write	very	well	and	it	is	sure	to	be
compared.”	Four	years	later	it	was	the	English	Mayer’s	turn	to	visit	Germany;
but	this	was	a	more	academic	trip	than	his	elder	brothers	had	made.	With	his
tutor	Dr	
Schlemmer	he	spent	several	months	studying	at	the	University	of
Leipzig	before	going	on	to	Heidelberg.	In	this	he	was	following	in	the	footsteps
of	Anselm,	the	first	Rothschild	to	attend	university,	who	had	acquired	“a	lively
interest	in	science”	while	studying	at	Berlin.	He	then	returned	to	England,	where
he	became	the	first	of	many	Rothschilds	to	study	at	Cambridge,	first	at
Magdalene	and	then,	when	the	college	proved	punctilious	about	his	attendance	at
chapel	(still	formally	a	requirement	for	undergraduates),	to	larger	and	laxer
Trinity.	(Oxford	was	ruled	out	because	matriculation	was	conditional	on
subscription	to	the	thirty-nine	articles;	whereas	in	Cambridge	non-conformists
and	Jews	could	become	members	of	the	university,	though	they	could	not	be
awarded	degrees,	scholarships	or	fellowships.)
8
Not	to	be	outdone,	Carl	sent	his	son	Mayer	Carl	to	Göttingen,	where	he
studied	law,	and	then	to	Berlin,	where	he	attended	lectures	by	the	leading	light	of
German	jurisprudence,	Friedrich	Karl	von	Savigny,	and	Leopold	von	Ranke,	the
pre-eminent	historian	of	the	age.	His	brother	Wilhelm	Carl	was	in	turn	subjected
to	an	extraordinarily	rigorous	secondary	education:	at	the	age	of	fifteen	he	was
studying	twenty	different	subjects	including	five	languages	and	five	sciences
under	a	team	of	tutors	led	by	the	French	physiologist	Henri	Blanvalet.	His	flight
into	religious	Orthodoxy	may	have	been	partly	a	reaction	against	such	state-of-
the-art	cramming.	James’s	sons	were	no	less	thoroughly	educated.	Alphonse
studied	at	the	Collège	Bourbon	(later	the	Lycée	Condorcet)	and	was	tutored
privately	for	his	baccalauréat	by	Désiré	Nisard,	who	later	became	director	of	the
Ecole	Normale	and	a	member	of	the	Académie	Française.	Nor	was	it	only	the
Rothschild	boys	who	were	given	the	benefit	of	a	good	education.	Though	little	is

--- Page 286 ---
known	about	her	formal	schooling,	Carl’s	daughter	Charlotte—perhaps	the
brightest	Rothschild	of	the	third	generation—was	a	highly	literate	woman,	to
judge	by	her	elegant	English	letters	and	intense	German	diaries.
If	the	aim	of	all	this	had	been	to	produce	great	intellectuals,	we	would	have	to
judge	it	a	failure:	with	the	exception	of	Charlotte,	none	of	the	third	generation
can	be	said	to	have	had	scholarly	minds.	But	the	aim	was	rather	to	produce	men
and	women	who	would	fit	more	easily	into	the	elite	social	milieus	of	Europe
than	their	fathers—without	losing	the	desire	to	carry	on	their	business	as
bankers.	In	those	terms,	the	education	of	the	third	generation	of	Rothschilds	was
a	success.	Mayer	Amschel’s	grandchildren	no	longer	spoke	the	rough-hewn
German	of	the	Judengasse:	Castellane	disliked	Betty’s	
German
	accent	not	her
Jewish	accent,	and	no	contemporary	appears	to	have	detected	anything	remotely
unusual	about	the	easy	and	idiomatic	way	Nathan’s	sons	spoke	English.	Nor	did
the	younger	Rothschilds	invariably	write	their	letters	in	the	Hebrew	characters
used	by	their	fathers:	although	Salomon	and	Carl’s	sons	continued	to	do	so,	the
English	and	French	Rothschilds	of	the	third	generation	did	not	(though	they
could	read	
Judendeutsch
	without	difficulty).	Indeed,	from	the	late	1820s
onwards,	the	business	of	the	five	houses	was	conducted	multilingually,	with	each
partner	tending	to	write	in	his	first	language,	occasionally	lapsing	into	the
language	of	his	place	of	work	or	addressee	in	postscripts.	To	all	intents	and
purposes,	as	their	letters	show,	the	third	generation	wrote	English,	German	and
French	as	well	as—and	in	some	cases	rather	better	than—their	aristocratic
contemporaries.	Moreover,	the	very	conventionality	of	their	cultural	tastes	was
proof	that	the	tutors	had	done	their	work	well.	They	liked	Scott’s	
novels;
Meyerbeer’s	operas;	Murillo’s	paintings;	Marie	Antoinette’s	furniture.	The	boys
also	picked	up	the	hobbies	and	vices	of	the	social	elite—riding	horses,	hunting
foxes	and	stags,	betting	on	racehorses,	as	well	as	smoking	cigars,	drinking	fine
wines	and	chasing	unsuitable	women.	They	even	had	clubbish	nicknames	for
one	other:	Lionel	was	“Rab,”	Anthony	“Billy”	or	“Fat	Bill”	and	Mayer	“Muffy”
or	“Tup.”	All	outward	traces	of	the	Frankfurt	ghetto	had	been	expunged,	save,	it
might	be	said,	those	of	physiognomy—and	even	in	that	respect	few	members	of
the	family	actually	conformed	to	the	hostile	caricaturists’	Jewish	stereotypes,
least	of	all	James.	He	and	his	brothers	had	found	it	easy	to	become	barons,
wearers	of	royal	orders,	property-owners	and	society	hosts.	Now	they	had	made
it	possible	for	the	third	generation	of	Rothschilds	to	become	something	more
elusive:	gentlemen.

--- Page 287 ---
EIGHT
Sudden	Revolutions	(1830-1833)
In	the	present	state	of	Europe	something	great	&	decisive	must	be	done	or	its
kingdoms	and	their	population	will	be	soon	again	in	worse	confusion	than	they
were	under	the	French	Revolution	and	the	influence	of	Napoleon.	The	march	of
mind	is	too	rapid	to	permit	the	old	arrangements	of	society	to	continue	long	as
they	are.	The	modern	extraordinary	advance	in	the	arts	and	sciences,	will	’ere
long,	if	I	am	not	greatly	deceived,	change	the	whole	organisation	of	the	social
systems	over	the	world	greatly	to	the	benefit	of	all;	but	it	may	very	suddenly	render
all	anticipated	wealth,	as	money	is,	of	very	little	use.	It	may	be	well	therefore,
without	losing	the	advantages	which	money	gives	under	the	existing	arrangements
of	society,	to	secure	also	similar	benefits	in	case	of	sudden	revolutions	in	all	the
states	of	Europe	which	may	now	any	day	take	place.
—ROBERT	OWEN	TO	HANNAH	ROTHSCHILD,	JULY	1828.
1
	
	
	
	
In	July	1830	the	French	King	Charles	X	was	overthrown	by	a	combination	of
parliamentary	opposition	and	popular	violence	in	Paris.	In	something	like	a
political	chain-reaction,	comparable	changes	of	regime	occurred	or	were
attempted	(with	varying	degrees	of	violence)	in	Brussels,	Warsaw,	Modena	and
Bologna,	as	well	as	in	a	number	of	German	states,	notably	Brunswick,	Hesse-
Kassel	and	Saxony,	and	in	Portugal.	In	Belgium,	Italy	and	Poland,	the
revolutionaries	were	as	much	concerned	to	free	themselves	from	foreign	rule	as
to	achieve	constitutional	reforms.	Elsewhere,	constitutional	reforms	were
enacted	without	the	deposition	of	a	monarch.	This	was	the	case	not	only	in
England,	Scotland	and	Ireland—sometimes	neglected	in	accounts	of	the	1830
revolution—but	also	in	Hanover,	where	the	change	of	monarch	was	the	result	of
George	IV’s	not	untimely	death	in	June	1830.	In	Baden,	Württemberg	and

--- Page 288 ---
Bavaria,	rulers	felt	constrained	to	make	concessions	to	liberals.	Nor	did	political
instability	end	in	1832,	by	which	time	the	revolts	in	Poland	and	Italy	had	been
crushed	and	Holland	had	been	obliged	to	accept	the	secession	of	Belgium.
Uncertainty	about	the	stability	of	new	political	arrangements	persisted
throughout	Europe	until	the	middle	of	the	decade	and	beyond.
The	fact	that	the	Rothschilds	were	able	to	survive	these	political	upheavals	led
many	observers	to	conclude	that,	as	Byron	and	others	had	earlier	suspected,	their
power	was	actually	as	great	as,	if	not	greater	than,	that	of	the	kings	to	whom	they
lent	money.	In	November	1931,	in	his	tenth	bulletin	from	Paris,	Ludwig	Börne
explicitly	“equated	Rothschild	.	.	.	with	kings”:
[T]hat	should	certainly	not	annoy	him,	even	if	he	should	not	wish	to	belong	in
their	ranks,	because	he	should	know	best	how	far	below	par	a	king	stands	in
Paris	today.	But	he	is	the	great	dealer	in	all	state	bonds,	who	gives	monarchs	the
power	to	spite	freedom	and	deprives	peoples	of	the	courage	to	resist	violence.
Rothschild	is	the	high	priest	of	fear,	the	Goddess	on	whose	altar	liberty,
patriotism,	honour	and	all	civic	virtues	are	sacrificed.	Rothschild	should	sell	off
all	his	paper	in	one	hour	on	the	stock	exchange,	so	that	they	crash	into	the
deepest	abyss;	then	he	should	rush	into	my	arms	and	feel	how	strongly	I	press
him	to	my	heart.
The	new	French	King	Louis	Philippe	would,	suggested	Börne	sarcastically	in	his
bulletin	of	January	1832,
have	himself	crowned	if	he	is	still	king	in	a	year’s	time;	not	at	St	Rémy	at
Rheims,	but	at	Notre	Dame	de	la	Bourse	at	Paris,	and	Rothschild	will	officiate	as
archbishop.	After	the	coronation,	pigeons	will	be	sent	out,	as	usual,	and	one	of
them	.	.	.	will	fly	to	St	Helena,	settle	on	Napoleon’s	grave,	and	laughingly	inform
his	remains	that	they	saw	his	successor	anointed	yesterday,	not	by	the	Pope	but
by	a	Jew;	and	that	the	present	ruler	of	France	has	taken	the	title,	“Emperor	of	the
five	per	cents,	King	of	the	three	per	cents,	Protector	of	bankers	and	exchange
agents.”
In	both	letters,	to	be	sure,	Börne	continued	to	harp	on	the	familiar	theme	that
the	Rothschilds	were	the	supporters	of	reaction:
It	is	always	the	same	game	that	these	Rothschilds	play,	in	order	to	enrich
themselves	at	the	cost	of	the	land	they	exploit	.	.	.	The	financiers	are	the	nation’s
worst	enemies.	They	have	done	more	than	any	to	undermine	the	foundations	of
freedom,	and	it	is	unquestionable	that	most	of	the	peoples	of	Europe	would	by

--- Page 289 ---
this	time	be	in	full	possession	of	liberty	if	such	men	as	Rothschild	.	.	.	did	not
lend	the	autocrats	the	support	of	their	capital.
But	it	was	rather	harder	to	make	this	argument	stick	when	the	Rothschilds	had	so
quickly	lent	their	support	to	Louis	Philippe’s	regime,	which	was	plainly	the
product	of	a	liberal	revolution,	even	if	it	was	not	liberal	enough	for	Börne.
Moreover,	the	Rothschilds	were	also,	as	Börne	said,	lending	money	to	establish
Greece	as	an	independent	monarchy,	which	had	been	another	liberal	goal	of	the
1820s.	Indeed,	they	even	appeared	to	be	in	a	position	to	influence	the	decision	as
to	which	prince	would	become	the	new	Greek	king.	(“M.	de	Rothschild	finds
that	all	the	princes	of	Europe	are	in	his	credit	book	except	Prince	Frederick	of
the	Netherlands,	and	he	concludes	that	the	prince	who	has	never	asked	him	for
credit	is	the	most	worthy	of	it.”)	It	therefore	made	more	sense	to	argue	that	the
Rothschilds	were	beginning	to	
supplant
	
rather	than	merely	shore	up	the
European	monarchies:
Would	it	not	be	a	good	thing	for	the	world	if	the	crowns	were	placed	on	their
[the	Rothschilds’]	heads	instead	of	lying	at	their	feet	as	they	do	now?	.	.	.
Although	the	Rothschilds	do	not	yet	occupy	thrones,	they	are	at	all	events	asked
their	advice	as	to	the	choice	of	a	ruler	when	a	throne	falls	vacant	.	.	.	Would	it
not	be	a	great	blessing	for	the	world	if	all	the	
kings	were	dismissed	and	the
Rothschild	family	put	on	their	thrones?	Think	of	the	advantages.	The	new
dynasty	would	never	contract	a	loan,	as	it	would	know	better	than	anybody	how
dear	such	things	are,	and	on	this	account	alone	the	burden	on	their	subjects
would	be	alleviated	by	several	millions	a	year.
Born	Löw	Baruch	in	the	Frankfurt	Judengasse,	a	convert	not	only	to
Christianity	but	to	German	nationalism,	Börne	had	his	own	complex	personal
reasons	for	disliking	the	Rothschilds.	For	a	rather	more	nuanced	assessment	of
Rothschild	power	in	the	age	of	revolution,	we	need	to	turn	to	Börne’s	friend,	the
poet	and	journalist	Heinrich	Heine.	Before	1830	Heine	thought	of	the
Rothschilds	in	much	the	same	way	as	other	liberally	inclined	writers.	In	his
“Travel	Sketches,”	for	example,	“Rothschild	I”	appears	alongside	Wellington,
Metternich	and	the	Pope	as	a	bulwark	of	reaction.	Even	at	this	stage,	however,
Heine	had	an	awareness	of	the	ambivalent	nature	of	the	relationship	between	the
Rothschilds	and	the	established	monarchies.	In	“The	Baths	of	Lucca,”	the	Jewish
Figaro-figure	Hirsch-Hyacinth	recalls	cutting	Nathan	Rothschild’s	corns:
This	happened	in	his	inner	sanctum	while	he	sat	on	his	green	armchair	as	though

--- Page 290 ---
it	were	a	throne.	He	spoke	like	a	king,	with	courtiers	all	around	him;	he	ordered
them	about	and	sent	messages	to	all	the	kings	of	the	world;	and	while	I	was
cutting	his	corns,	I	thought	to	myself:	what	you	now	have	in	your	hand	is	the
foot	of	the	man	whose	own	hands	hold	the	whole	world.	Now	you	are	somebody
too:	if	you	cut	too	deep	down	below	he’ll	lose	his	temper	up	above	and	he’ll	cut
the	kings	more	sharply.	That	was	the	greatest	moment	of	my	life.
For	Heine,	Nathan	already	has	the	power	to	“cut”	the	kings	to	whom	he	lends.
Yet	his	Rothschilds	have	not	lost	sight	of	their	own	lowly	and	Jewish	origins.
Nathan’s	bank	in	London	is	a	glorified	“pawnshop”	and	when	Hirsch-Hyacinth
is	introduced	to	Salomon	as	a	former	seller	of	lottery	tickets,	he	invites	him	to
dine	with	him,	saying:	“I	am	something	like	that	myself,	I	am	the	chief	agent	of
the	Rothschild	lottery.”	“He	treated	me,”	says	Hirsch-Hyacinth,	“like	his	equal,
quite	famillionaire”	(
ganz	famillionär
).	That	much	analysed	pun	hints	at	an	idea
to	which	Heine	later	returned:	that,	despite	their	enormous	wealth,	the
Rothschilds	were	far	from	being	mere	props	of	the	traditional	social	hierarchy.
The	same	point	underlies	the	memorable	allegory	in	which	Hirsch-Hyacinth
describes	a	children’s	fancy-dress	ball	given	by	Salomon:
The	children	wore	lovely	fancy	dress,	and	they	played	at	making	loans.	They
were	dressed	up	like	kings,	with	crowns	on	their	heads,	but	there	was	one	of	the
bigger	lads	who	was	dressed	exactly	like	old	Nathan	Rothschild.	He	played	his
part	very	well,	kept	both	hands	in	his	trouser-pockets,	rattled	his	money	and
shook	with	bad	temper	when	one	of	the	little	kings	wanted	to	borrow	off	him—
only	a	little	lad	with	the	white	coat	and	red	trousers	[Austria]	got	a	kindly	pat	on
the	cheek	and	was	praised:	“You’re	my	boy,	my	pet,	I’m	proud	of	you;	but	your
cousin	Michel	[probably	Germany]	had	better	keep	away	from	me,	I’ll	give
nothing	to	a	fool	like	that	who	expends	more	in	a	day	than	he	has	coming	in	a
year;	he’ll	make	some	trouble	yet	in	the	world	and	spoil	my	business.”	As	true	as
the	Lord	shall	help	me,	the	boy	played	his	part	wonderfully	well,	especially
when	he	helped	a	fat	child	dressed	in	white	
satin	with	real	silver	lilies	[France]
in	its	effort	to	walk	and	said	to	it	occasionally:	“Now,	you,	behave	yourself,
make	an	honest	living,	and	see	that	they	don’t	chase	you	out	again,	or	I’ll	lose
my	money.”	I	assure	you,	Herr	Doktor,	it	was	a	pleasure	to	listen	to	that	lad;	and
the	other	children	too—dear	sweet	children	they	all	were—played	their	parts
extremely	well—until	the	cake	was	brought	in	and	they	all	started	fighting	for
the	best	piece	[and]	tore	the	crowns	off	one	another’s	heads	.	.	.”
Once	again,	Heine’s	Nathan	feels	contempt	for	the	various	rulers	who	approach

--- Page 291 ---
him	for	loans:	it	is	he	who	is	their	master.	In	an	unpublished	passage,	Heine
made	it	clear	that	he	shared	that	contempt	for	“stupid	princes,”	“but	before
Nathan	Rothschild	I	tremble	with	fear.	Before	you	can	say	Jack	Robinson,	he
could	send	a	few	kings,	stockbrokers,	and	policemen	to	my	rooms	and	have	me
carried	to	the	fortress	prison.”
In	an	unpublished	passage	of	“The	Baths	of	Lucca,”	Heine	sought	to	analyse
the	nature	of	the	Rothschilds’	power	more	precisely.	Here	he	acknowledges	that
in	the	short	term	it	served	to	shore	up	the	reactionary	regimes:
When	I	think	about	political	economy	in	these	our	latter	days	it	becomes	ever
clearer	to	me	that	without	the	Rothschilds’	help	the	financial	embarrassment	of
most	states	would	have	been	exploited	by	subversives	wanting	to	mislead	the
populace	into	upsetting	whatever	order	or	disorder	constituted	the	status	quo.
Revolutions	are	generally	triggered	off	by	deficiency	of	money;	by	preventing
such	deficiencies,	the	Rothschild	system	may	serve	to	preserve	peace	in	Europe.
This	system,	or	rather,	Nathan	Rothschild,	its	inventor,	is	still	providing	firm
foundations	for	such	peace:	it	does	not	inhibit	one	state	from	making	war	on
another	exactly	as	before,	but	it	does	make	it	difficult	for	the	people	to
overthrow	established	authority	.	.	.	Religion	is	no	longer	able	to	guarantee	the
governments	that	the	people	will	remain	peaceful;	the	Rothschild	system	of
loans	can	perform	the	task	much	better.
However,	the	Rothschild	“system”	is	also	potentially	revolutionary	in	itself:
[I]t	possesses	the	moral	force	or	power	which	religion	has	lost,	it	can	act	as	a
surrogate	for	religion—indeed,	it	
is
	a	new	religion,	and	when	the	old	religion
finally	goes	under	it	will	provide	substitutes	for	its	practical	blessings.	Strangely
enough,	it	is	once	again	the	Jews	who	invented	this	new	religion	.	.	.	Murdered
Judaea	was	as	cunning	as	the	dying	Nessus,	and	its	poisoned	robe—poisoned
with	its	own	blood—consumed	the	strength	of	the	Roman	Hercules	so
effectively	that	his	mighty	limbs	grew	weary,	armour	and	helmet	fell	away	from
his	withered	body,	and	his	voice,	once	so	mighty	in	battle,	dwindled	to	a
prayerful	whine.	Miserably,	in	a	death-agony	that	dragged	on	through	a	thousand
years,	Rome	dies	by	the	Judaic	poison.
Of	course,	this	extraordinary	passage	says	a	good	deal	about	Heine’s	own	highly
ambivalent	attitude	towards	Judaism	(like	Börne,	he	had	converted	to
Christianity);	but	it	also	anticipates	his	later	and	more	coherent	reflections	in	his
“Memorandum	on	Ludwig	Börne”	(1840)	on	the	Rothschilds	as	revolutionaries

--- Page 292 ---
rather	than	counter-revolutionaries.
Here,	in	perhaps	the	most	perceptive	of	any	contemporary	commentary,	Heine
confronts	the	reader	with	a	striking	paradox:
No	one	does	more	to	further	the	revolution	than	the	Rothschilds	themselves	.	.	.
and,	though	it	may	sound	even	more	strange,	these	Rothschilds,	the	bankers	of
kings,	these	princely	pursestring-holders,	whose	existence	might	be	placed	in	the
gravest	danger	by	a	collapse	of	the	European	state	system,	nevertheless	carry	in
their	minds	a	consciousness	of	their	revolutionary	mission.
James,	he	suggests,	is	the	“Nero	of	finance,”	“reigning	as	absolute	emperor	over
the	stock	exchanges	of	the	world”;	but,	like	his	predecessor,	the	Roman	Nero,	he
is	“ultimately	a	powerful	destroyer	of	patrician	privilege,	and	the	founder	of	a
new	democracy.”
The	explanation	which	follows	purports	to	be	based	on	a	genuine	conversation
Heine	had	with	James—while	“sauntering	arm	in	arm	through	the	streets	of
Paris”—and	though	it	is	possible	that	Heine	was	putting	his	own	words	in
someone	else’s	mouth,	it	is	sufficiently	different	from	his	earlier	flights	of	fancy
to	be	worth	taking	seriously.	According	to	Heine,	James	explained	how	“he
himself,	through	his	system	of	government	bonds,	had	created	the	first
conditions	for,	and	at	the	same	time	paved	the	way	towards,	social	progress”	and
the	“foundation	of	a	new	order	of	things.”	For	it	was	the	development	of	mobile
property	in	the	form	of	the	rente	and	other	government	bonds	which	severed	the
link	between	wealth	and	land,	allowing	the	propertied	classes	to	converge	on
Paris.	“The	importance	has	long	been	recognised	of	such	a	[common]	residence
for	the	most	diverse	of	forces,	of	such	a	centralisation	of	intelligentsia	and	social
authorities.	For,	without	Paris,	France	would	never	have	had	its	revolution	.	.	.
Through	the	system	of	rentes,	Paris	became	Paris	much	more	rapidly.”	This
prompts	Heine	to	go	further:
I	see	in	Rothschild	one	of	the	greatest	revolutionaries	who	have	founded	modern
democracy.	Richelieu,	Robespierre	and	Rothschild	are	for	me	three	terroristic
names,	and	they	signify	the	gradual	annihilation	of	the	old	aristocracy.	Richelieu,
Robespierre	and	Rothschild	are	Europe’s	three	most	fearful	levellers.	Richelieu
destroyed	the	sovereignty	of	the	feudal	nobility,	and	subjected	it	to	that	royal
despotism,	which	either	relegated	it	to	court	service,	or	let	it	rot	in	bumpkin-like
inactivity	in	the	provinces.	Robespierre	decapitated	this	subjugated	and	idle
nobility.	But	the	land	remained,	and	its	new	master,	the	new	landowner,	quickly
became	another	aristocrat	just	like	his	predecessor,	whose	pretensions	he

--- Page 293 ---
continued	under	another	name.	Then	came	Rothschild	and	destroyed	the
predominance	of	land,	by	raising	the	system	of	state	bonds	to	supreme	power,
thereby	mobilising	property	and	income	and	at	the	same	time	endowing	money
with	the	previous	privileges	of	the	land.	He	thereby	created	a	new	aristocracy,	it
is	true,	but	this,	resting	as	it	does	on	the	most	unreliable	of	elements,	on	money,
can	never	play	as	enduringly	regressive	a	role	as	the	former	aristocracy,	which
was	rooted	in	the	land,	in	the	earth	itself.	For	money	is	more	fluid	than	water,
more	elusive	than	the	air,	and	one	can	gladly	forgive	the	impertinences	of	the
new	nobility	in	consideration	of	its	ephemerality.	In	the	twinkling	of	an	eye,	it
will	dissolve	and	evaporate.
Heine	returned	again	and	again	during	the	1840s	to	the	subject	of	Rothschild
power.	In	the	journal	of	1840-41	later	published	as	
Lutezia
,	for	example,	he
caricatured	the	relationship	between	James’s	state	of	health	or	mood	and	the
price	of	rentes,	and	coined	the	famous	pun:	“[M]oney	is	the	god	of	our	time	and
Rothschild	
is	his	prophet.”	The	Rothschilds	also	crop	up	in	the	poems
“Romanzero,”	“Germany”	and	“Simplicissimus.”
2
	But	he	never	wrote	with	such
penetrating	insight	as	he	did	in	“Ludwig	Börne”—partly	because	his	personal
and	financial	relations	with	the	family	grew	somewhat	closer	after	1840.	As	we
shall	see,	Heine	was	singularly	perceptive	in	identifying	the	Rothschilds	as
agents	as	much	of	social	revolution	as	of	reaction,	even	if	their	revolutionary
role	was	less	conscious	than	he	suggested.	Nor	was	he	alone	in	making	this
point,	though	no	one	expressed	it	better.	A	lesser	writer	declared	that	“the
Rothschild	brothers	[had]	become	the	hierophants	of	the	new	religion,”	the
founders	of	a	new	“Moneycracy.”	Brooding	in	Venice	after	the	fall	of	the
Bourbon	regime,	the	arch-conservative	Chateaubriand	remarked	bleakly	that
“the	Kings	[had]	become	the	chamberlains	of	Salomon,	Baron	de	Rothschild.”
	
The	Revolution	and	the	Rente
It	is	always	easy,	with	the	benefit	of	hindsight,	to	find	fault	with	historical
figures	who	fail	to	foresee	revolutions.	But	revolutions	are	not	necessarily	the
products	of	predictable	forces	(as	the	case	of	Eastern	Europe	in	1989	well
illustrates),	much	as	historians	may	like	to	discover	these	after	the	fact.	The
accession	of	Charles	X	in	1824	and	the	fall	of	Villèle	three	years	later	following
the	conversion	fiasco	should	not	be	seen	as	harbingers	of	crisis	in	France.	For
the	government	of	the	vicomte	de	Martignac	formed	in	January	1828	seemed	to
be	successfully	steering	a	course	between	the	liberal	forces	represented	in	the

--- Page 294 ---
Chamber	of	Deputies	and	the	conservative,	clerical	tendencies	of	the	court.
When	Nathan’s	daughter	Charlotte	was	in	Paris	in	1829	she	found	James	giving
“a	dinner	party	for	the	liberals	&	the	Ministers,	[as]	it	is	best	to	keep	friends	with
all	parties.”	Although	the	April	parliamentary	session	was	every	bit	as	“stormy”
as	Charlotte	had	been	warned	to	expect,	James	remained	optimistic.	There	were
periods	of	stagnation	on	the	bourse	and	occasional	reports	of	bread	riots	in	the
wake	of	poor	harvests,	but	the	vital	barometer	of	financial	confidence,	the	rente,
suggested	that	the	regime	was	in	good	health.	In	May	1829,	the	price	of	3	per
cent	rentes	stood	at	76.6;	a	year	later	it	was	above	84,	having	reached	a	peak	of
86	in	December.	Even	the	dismissal	of	Martignac	and	the	appointment	of	the
ultra-conservative	Jules	de	Polignac	in	his	place	on	August	9,	1829,	did	not
obviously	herald	a	crisis.	Rentes	actually	rose	when	the	new	ministry	was
announced,	and	continued	to	rise	with	only	minor	dips	until	May	1830.
Under	these	circumstances,	it	was	hardly	rash	of	James	to	outbid	the	intense
competition	for	a	relatively	modest	government	loan	in	early	1830,	needed	to
finance	a	popularity-boosting	military	adventure	in	Algeria.	As	he	saw	it,	there
was	a	contradiction	between	the	anti-government	rhetoric	of	the	Parisian	press
and	the	reality	of	financial	stability:	“On	the	one	hand	the	whole	world	is
screaming	that	the	Ministry	is	bringing	about	a	revolution	in	France	and	on	the
other	hand	all	the	various	consortiums	are	seen	to	be	fighting	among	themselves
to	lay	their	hands	on	a	lousy	4	million	rentes.”	The	government	might	well	face
“some	very	stormy	times”	when	the	Chamber	met	in	March;	but	the	bourse
remained	“very	good.”	As	a	banker,	James	naturally	put	his	money	on	the
market’s	view.	By	the	time	fear	of	a	major	constitutional	crisis	began	to	manifest
itself	at	the	bourse,	he	was	committed	to	the	new	loan—and	hence	to	the	regime.
The	crisis	of	1830	provides	a	classic	illustration	of	the	difficulty	bankers	(and
investors)	always	have	when	trying	to	choose	between	selling	a	falling	security
at	a	loss	or	holding	on	to	it	in	the	hope	of	a	rise—but	at	the	risk	of	a	further	fall.
Contrary	to	Corti’s	suggestion	that	he	was	blind	to	the	impending	crisis,	James
had	been	given	a	clear	warning	as	early	as	February,	when	the	Finance	Minister
outlined	to	him	yet	another	conversion	scheme.	When	James	expressed	doubts	as
to	whether	the	government	would	command	the	necessary	parliamentary
majority	to	enact	such	a	measure,	he	was	left	in	no	doubt	what	would	happen:	“If
.	.	.	the	Chamber	should	be	totally	opposed	to	the	Government	then	they	are
determined	to	dissolve	the	Chamber	and	to	pass	a	law	calling	for	fresh	elections
and	thus	engineer	the	formation	of	a	new	Chamber.”	But	James	hesitated:
You	know	very	well,	my	dear	Nathan,	what	chambers	and	ministers	are	like.

--- Page 295 ---
Whether	the	King	will	have	the	necessary	courage	to	follow	the	above	plan
when	the	time	comes	to	do	so,	and	whether	the	Chamber	will	allow	this	to
happen,	I	don’t	know.	It	is	a	diabolical	situation	.	.	.	and	if	I	can	manage	to
extricate	myself	I	would	dearly	like	to	do	so,	for	I	am	not	at	all	enamoured	of
this	situation	where	a	Minister	pits	himself	against	the	public.
3
Instead	of	trying	to	“extricate”	himself,	he	therefore	opted	to	sit	tight—and
was	encouraged	to	do	so	by	Nathan,	who	advised	him	only	to	sell	“at	a	profit”
(that	is,	to	hang	on	in	the	hope	of	better	prices).	Partly,	James	made	the	mistake
of	trusting	too	much	in	the	assurances	of	Polignac,	who	seemed	to	have	“the
courage	of	the	devil”	when	he	saw	him	in	February.	“There	is	only	one	thing	that
can	be	done	over	here,”	he	told	Nathan	shortly	before	the	Chamber	convened	at
the	beginning	of	March,	“and	that	is	to	remain	quiet	for	the	time	being	and	to
observe	things	from	the	sidelines	because	the	devil	is	not	as	black	as	he	appears
to	be.”	On	this	basis,	Nathan	blithely	assured	Charles	Greville	that	“Polignac’s
Government	will	stand	by	the	King’s	support	and	Polignac’s	own	courage.”
4
	The
problem	was	that	he	and	his	brother	now	held	a	substantial	amount	of	4	per	cent
rentes—to	a	nominal	value	of	around	25	million	francs	(£1	million)—which	they
had	intended	gradually	to	sell	on	to	brokers	and	investors	at	a	profit.	If	they
began	to	accelerate	their	sales	at	a	time	when	the	4	per	cents	already	were	worth
slightly	less	than	they	had	paid	for	them,	prices	would	very	probably	fall	further.
It	is	no	wonder	James	called	Polignac	a	devil:	he	had	made	an	authentically
Faustian	pact	with	him.
This	became	painfully	obvious	when	the	parliamentary	session	began.	James
saw	at	once	“that	the	King	will	have	to	choose	between	the	Chambers	and	the
Ministry.”	But,	he	reasoned,	“I	don’t	want	to	do	anything,	because	as	long	as	I
remain	firm,	the	people	will	not	have	the	courage	to	set	about	depressing	the
rentes	and	I	will	thus	ride	out	the	storm.”	By	221	votes	to	181,	the	deputies
passed	an	address	to	the	King	stating	that	“concord	between	the	political	views
of	your	government	and	the	wishes	of	your	people	.	.	.	does	not	exist	today,”
whereupon	(as	James	had	been	warned	to	expect)	the	King	dissolved	the
Chamber	and	called	for	new	elections.	Far	from	selling	rentes,	however,	James
found	himself	having	to	buy	them	to	shore	up	the	market—and	his	friend	the
“devil”:
Well,	Polignac	promised	me	that	he	will	not	instigate	a	coup	d’état,	that	is,	he
will	not	make	any	move	that	is	illegal	and	that	he	will	remain	faithful	with	his
Ministers,	so	I	went	ahead	and	bought	100,000	francs	of	rentes	[3.3	million

--- Page 296 ---
nominal]	because	I	had	told	him,	“If	you	remain	within	the	law	then	I	promise
you	that	there	will	be	a	rise,”	and	I	kept	my	word	for	the	[3	per	cent]	rentes	now
stand	at	82.40	when	they	had	opened	at	81.40	.	.	.	Well,	while	we	don’t	have	any
Chambers	the	Ministry	may	well	get	
some	new	Ministers	and	matters	will	then
be	sorted	out.	If	we	manage	to	gain	three	months	then	everything	will	be
resolved.
James	was	right	to	think	that	a	financial	collapse	could	be	averted	for	a	time,
though	not	for	three	months:	in	fact,	the	price	of	3	per	cents	rallied	and	remained
above	84	until	May	3.	However,	he	was	not	in	a	position	simultaneously	to
support	the	market	and	to	sell	worthwhile	amounts	of	rentes	(though	he	did	try	to
sell	some	“without	anyone	getting	wind	of	what	I	am	doing”).	This	meant	that,
when	the	market	began	to	slide	even	before	the	new	Chamber	convened,	the
brothers	still	held	not	only	25	million	francs	of	4	per	cents	but	also	some	1.5
million	francs	of	5	per	cents	and	4.5	million	of	3	per	cents.	The	prices	paid	for
the	5	and	4.5	per	cents	had	been,	respectively,	106.25	and	83.70.	From	May
onwards,	the	losses	on	these	accounts	began	to	mount.	Yet	neither	James	nor
Nathan	could	bear	to	write	them	off	by	selling.	James	continued	to	clutch	at
straws,	refusing	to	face	the	possibility	that	the	political	situation	might	go	on
deteriorating.	At	the	same	time,	the	government	put	its	faith	in	him:	“If	you	do
not	succeed	in	preventing	the	fall	in	values,”	a	minister	told	him,	“everyone	will
believe	that	a	
coup	d’état
	will	occur	such	as	you	so	rightly	fear.”	And	indeed,
prices	did	rally	slightly	between	June	10	and	July	12.	But	the	truth	was	that	the
limits	of	Rothschild	power	over	the	market	had	been	reached.	Ouvrard	and
others	were	now	beginning	an	unstoppable	bear	run.
The	news	that	the	government’s	Algerian	expedition	had	been	successful—
which	reached	Paris	in	the	first	week	of	July—was	completely	swamped	by	the
results	of	the	elections,	which	were	a	resounding	victory	for	the	Opposition.
Now	the	only	hope—expressed	by	Salomon,	who	rushed	to	Paris	to	lend	his
assistance—was	that	the	King	might	compromise	with	the	Chamber	and
abandon	Polignac.	As	James	realised,	however,	this	was	unlikely:
Vitrolles	[one	of	Polignac’s	ministers]	has	just	arrived	and	says	that	during	the
coming	month	the	King	will	take	very	firm	measures	as	a	result	of	which	the	life
of	the	Chamber	will	be	prolonged	.	.	.	but	there	are	one	hundred	Deputies	more
on	the	side	of	the	opposition	than	there	are	supporting	the	Ministry.	Well,	what
can	the	Chamber	do	in	such	a	situation?	Is	it	not	the	case	that	in	England,	if	a
Ministry	does	not	have	the	support	of	a	majority,	they	then	have	to	resign?	But

--- Page 297 ---
here	the	King	declares:	“I	will	hold	on	to	my	Ministry.”	So	what	can	one	do?
Believe	me,	my	dear	Nathan,	I	am	.	.	.	losing	my	courage.
Twelve	days	later	his	courage	had	gone	completely:	“The	whole	world	is	selling
rentes	.	.	.	and	all	the	Ministers,	including	the	Finance	Minister	and	the	Minister
for	Internal	Affairs	tell	me,	‘Rothschild,	be	careful.’	.	.	.	My	dear	Nathan,	you	are
an	old	warrior.	Tell	me	truthfully,	do	you	not	also	fear	what	might	happen	in	the
end?”
Before	Nathan	could	even	reply,	the	end	arrived.	On	July	26	Charles	X
invoked	his	exceptional	powers	under	article	14	of	the	1814	Charter	and
published	three	ordinances	which	ended	freedom	of	the	press,	dissolved	the
Chamber	and	introduced	yet	another	change	to	the	electoral	system,	the	aim	of
which	was	to	produce	a	more	pliant	set	of	deputies.	It	was	in	fact	the	first	of
these	which	triggered	the	revolution:	few	deputies	had	yet	arrived	in	Paris,	but
liberal	journalists	like	Adolphe	Thiers	of	the	
National
	lost	no	time	in	denouncing
the	government’s	coup.	When	attempts	were	made	to	close	down	the	three
leading	opposition	newspapers,	crowds	took	to	the	streets.	Nathan’s	eldest	son
Lionel	arrived	just	in	time	to	witness	the	ensuing	confusion,	and	his	letter
perfectly	captures	the	uncertainty	of	the	moment:
One	moment	one	thinks	oneself	on	the	eve	of	seeing	a	revolution,	the	next,	that
every	thing	in	a	short	time	will	be	again	in	order	.	.	.	[T]oday	all	the	newspapers
appeared	as	usual	which	has	created	a	little	noise,	before	all	the	newspaper
offices	there	are	soldiers	&	the	gens	d’armes	who	have	seized	all	the	papers	&
taken	the	Editors	before	the	police,	this	alone	is	enough	to	make	a	disturbance	in
any	free	country:	all	the	shops	in	those	streets	are	of	course	closed:	in	the	Palais
Royal	there	was	a	man	selling	some	of	these	papers.	He	was	immediately	seized,
some	of	the	Boys,	&	of	the	common	people	took	his	part,	but	in	a	few	minutes
everything	was	quiet	again,	the	gates	in	the	Palais	Royal	&	the	shops	are	all
closed,	this	cirumstance	in	itself	is	trifling,	but	when	it	comes	to	London	they
make	a	great	story	of	it;	Before	all	the	Ministers’	Houses	there	are	also	gens
d’armes.	All	these	things	make	people	speak,	but	in	the	end	I	do	not	think	it	will
come	to	any	thing	very	bad	.	.	.	[T]o	day	there	is	to	be	a	meeting	of	all	the
members	of	the	late	parliament	what	they	will	do,	it	is	not	possible	to	say,	but	the
report	is,	that	they	will	declare	themselves	the	only	&	true	representatives	of	the
people	&	without	their	sanction	nothing	is	legal,	that	is	done	by	the	ministers	&
that	after	the	1st	Jan[uar]y.	no	taxes	need	to	be	paid	.	.	.	this	is	the	opinion	of	the
opposition	who	think	that	we	shall	see	very	dreadful	times	again,	but	the	other

--- Page 298 ---
party,	the	ministerial,	who	have	completely	the	command	of	the	army,	think	that
with	force	they	shall	be	able	to	carry	everything,	the	only	thing	papa	is	that	the
King	before	long	will	see	the	Danger.
By	the	time	he	did	see	the	danger,	however,	it	was	too	late.	In	two	days	of
intense	fighting	which	cost	the	lives	of	800	protesters	and	200	soldiers,	the
troops	loyal	to	Charles	X	were	driven	out	of	Paris.	Talk	of	mediation	by
moderate	liberals	like	the	bankers	Jacques	Laffitte	and	Casimir	Périer	was
suddenly	redundant,	as	was	the	King’s	belated	offer	to	withdraw	the	ordinances.
With	the	capital	on	the	verge	of	anarchy,	new	institutions	redolent	of	the	1790s
were	hastily	improvised:	a	municipal	committee	and	a	national	guard	led	by	that
old	republican	warhorse	Lafayette.	As	Salomon	uneasily	reported	to	Metternich
on	July	30,	“the	tricolour	flag	is	flying	on	all	public	buildings.”	Lionel	described
a	euphorically	insurgent	Paris:
The	streets	are	crowded	with	persons,	all	laughing	and	as	gay	as	if	they	had
come	from	some	Dance,	in	the	squares	&	open	places	all	the	Garde	Nationale	&
Royal	Troops	who	had	delivered	up	their	arms,	marching	&	being	cheered	by	the
people,	in	every	corner	the	three	coloured	flags	&	every	person	with	a	red,	blue
&	white	cockade,	in	the	Boulevard	&	streets	every	hundred	yards	the	fine	large
trees	cut	down	and	the	pavement	taken	up	&	piled	up	against	them	&	broken
doors	&c	so	that	nothing	can	pass	.	.	.	these	barricades,	as	they	call	them,	are	not
only	in	the	principal	streets,	but	in	all	the	small	ones,	so	that	it	was	impossible
for	the	soldiers	&	artillery	to	pass	anywhere.
Small	wonder	James	was	beetle-browed	when	the	historian	Jules	Michelet
glimpsed	him	in	his	carriage.	Small	wonder	he	took	the	precaution	of	burying	his
bonds	in	the	grounds	of	Salomon’s	house	at	Suresnes.
Yet	James	survived.	The	traditional	explanation	for	this	is	that	he	was	a	skilful
turncoat,	but	the	reality	is	more	complex.	It	is	undeniable	that	he	switched	sides
in	July	1830	with	alacrity	and	relief.	Apart	from	the	offer	of	a	rural	hiding	place
to	Vitrolles,	he	did	nothing	of	substance	to	assist	the	outgoing	regime,	rejecting
all	
requests	from	the	ousted	monarch	for	money	until	it	was	clear	that	he	was
leaving	the	country.	Indeed,	his	nephew	exulted	in	Charles’s	overthrow:	“Never
was	there	a	more	glorious	week	for	France,	this	people	have	[
sic
]	behaved	in	a
way	that	will	be	admired	by	every	person,	and	will	make	them	be	reckoned	now
amongst	the	first	of	nations	.	.	.	It	will	be	a	good	lesson	for	other	governm[en]ts.”
When	Polignac	was	put	on	trial	later	in	the	year,	James	shed	no	tears:	“I	assure
you	that,	as	far	as	I	am	concerned,	for	all	the	good	that	Polignac	has	done	for	us,

--- Page 299 ---
he	might	as	well	be	damned.”	James	was	also	quick	to	broadcast	his	support	for
the	new	regime,	ostentatiously	donating	15,000	francs	for	the	care	of	those
wounded	in	the	street-fighting.	Not	only	did	Anselm	do	his	bit	in	the	national
guard	(a	bourgeois	defence	force	of	which	the	family	strongly	approved);	James
even	dressed	up	his	three-year-old	son	Alphonse	in	a	miniature	guard’s	uniform.
It	is	also	true	that	the	liberals’	decision	to	offer	first	the	office	of	lieutenant
general	and	then	the	crown	to	the	duc	d’Orléans	was	a	stroke	of	good	luck	for
James;	as	we	have	seen,	he	had	already	made	the	new	King	a	“good	friend”	in
the	1820s.	From	the	Rothschild	point	of	view,	a	constitutional	monarchy	was
preferable	to	an	absolute	regime,	and	far	better	than	a	republic:	as	Salomon
characteristically	put	it	after	watching	Louis	Philippe	take	the	coronation	oath	to
uphold	the	slightly	revised	charter:	“Thank	God	that	we	have	come	so	far	that
the	matter	has	ended	so	well,	for	otherwise	the	Rentes	would	not	have	stood	at
79	but	would	have	fallen	to	39	God	forbid.”	James’s	relations	with	some	of	the
key	figures	in	the	new	government—notably	the	two	bankers	Laffitte	and	Périer
—were	also	relatively	good,	though	the	extent	of	genuine	amity	among	such
business	rivals	should	not	be	exaggerated.	Talleyrand,	who	was	the	linchpin	of
Louis	Philippe’s	diplomacy	in	London,	was	persuaded	to	bank	with	Nathan.
Sebastiani,	the	Foreign	Minister	from	late	1830,	was	“on	the	most	friendly
terms”	with	James,	who	called	on	him	“every	morning”;	relations	with	his
successor	de	Broglie	were	also	close.
Heine	was	ultimately	right,	then,	when	he	said	that	James	“appreciated	the
political	capacities	of	Louis	Philippe	from	the	first,	and	.	.	.	always	stayed	on	an
intimate	footing	with	that	grand	master	of	politics.”	Indeed,	even	the	later	anti-
Semitic	writer	Drumont	was	not	far	wrong	when	he	later	spoke	of	an	“affinity”
between	James	and	Louis	Philippe	based	on	their	common	“adoration	of
money”:	we	know	that	James	gave	Louis	Philippe	a	personal	loan	of	over	2
million	francs	in	April	1840	and	Heine	attributed	the	“great	attentions	paid	to
[Rothschild]	at	court”	to	the	King’s	“financial	plight.”	Although	Stendhal’s	witty
and	well-connected	“Monsieur	Leuwen”	can	hardly	have	been	modelled	on
James,	as	has	sometimes	been	claimed—he	is	not	Jewish,	for	example,	and	his
French	is	much	too	elegant—his	political	influence	as	portrayed	by	Stendhal
closely	corresponds	to	that	wielded	by	James	at	the	time	the	novel	was	written
(1836).
5
	“The	newspapers	write	so	much	about	the	ministers	speculating	with
us,”	reported	Lionel	in	1834,	“that	they	don’t	like	to	receive	us	every	day.”	The
Rothschilds’	private	correspondence	reveals	the	truth	of	such	press	reports,	and
suggests	that	it	was	only	a	slight	exaggeration	to	claim,	as	one	Austrian	source

--- Page 300 ---
did,	that	“in	all	Ministries	and	in	all	the	Departments	[Rothschild]	has	his
creatures	of	all	ranks	to	bring	him	every	kind	of	information.”	At	the	same	time,
the	social	barriers	which	had	still	existed	under	the	Restoration	all	but
disappeared	in	the	reign	of	the	“Citizen	King”:	members	of	the	royal	family	as
well	as	ministers	and	ambassadors	were	happy	to	accept	James’s	invitations	to
dinners,	balls	and	hunting	parties.
Nevertheless,	the	cosiness	of	the	relationship	which	developed	between	James
and	Louis	Philippe’s	regime	in	the	course	of	the	1830s	should	not	blind	us	to	the
fact	that,	at	least	until	1833,	the	Rothschilds	were	far	from	convinced	that	the
regime	would	endure.	And	with	good	reason.	The	example	of	Spain	suggested
the	possibility	of	a	protracted	civil	war	between	rival	claimants	to	the	throne.
More	important,	recent	French	history	gave	little	encouragement	to	proponents
of	a	constitutional	monarchy.	Every	time	crowds	took	to	the	streets	of	Paris—
calling	for	the	execution	of	Polignac	in	October	1830,	for	example—the	fear
recurred	that	the	monarchy	would	be	swept	aside	by	the	supporters	of	a	republic.
In	December	“precautions”	had	to	be	taken	when	James	received	warnings	“that
they	[republicans]	intend	attacking	the	house	tonight	&	taking	everything.”
Lionel’s	assessment	was	not	unrealistic:	“This	party	although	not	so	very	large
makes	itself	appear	considerably	more	so,	by	their	active	conduct,	they	make	use
of	all	the	nonsense	of	the	first	revolution	&	wish	to	make	this	one	resemble	it	in
every	respect:	this	frightens	many	persons.”
More	pessimistic	observers	like	the	Prussian	ambassador	Werther	warned
James	that	Louis	Philippe	would	“go	the	same	way	as	Louis	XVI.”	“The	old
revolution	started	in	a	similar	manner,”	James’s	dinner	guests	told	him,	“and	the
situation	now	is	beginning	to	look	ominously	alike.	We	can’t	see	how	anyone
here	can	feel	secure	and	we	are	surprised	that	you,	who	are	so	wealthy,	are
prepared	to	remain	in	such	a	country,	when,	at	any	one	time,	one	has	no	idea
what	the	next	day	might	bring.”	Nor	was	a	new	republic	all	that	James	had	to
fear.	There	was	also	the	more	recent	memory	of	imperial	glory,	which	a	smaller
number	of	Bonapartists	sought	to	rekindle.	Finally,	there	was	the	newer
phenomenon	of	working	class	unrest,	which	flared	up	periodically	not	only	in
Paris	but	in	Lyon	and	other	industrial	centres	about	which	the	Rothschilds	at	this
stage	knew	little.
Contemporaries	were	impressed	by	the	way	James	quickly	resumed	the	lavish
entertaining	for	which	he	was	already	famous,	throwing	a	“crowded	and
brilliant”	ball	as	early	as	January	15,	1831.	But	this	was	only	the	day	after	a
violent	anti-clerical	riot,	and,	as	the	Austrian	ambassador	described	it,	the	city

--- Page 301 ---
was	still	echoing	to	the	Marseillaise	as	the	Rothschilds’	guests	danced.	Louis
Philippe’s	son	the	duc	d’Orléans	relayed	his	apologies	through	an	aide-de-camp,
who	explained	that	he	was	at	the	head	of	his	regiment	and	that	the	republic	was
being	proclaimed	in	the	streets:
Mme	de	Rothschild	was	dying	of	fear,	imagining	the	pillage	of	her	house;
despite	that,	we	kept	on	dancing.	When	I	engaged	Mlle	de	Laborde	for	a	galop,
her	mother	told	me	that	a	glow	that	could	be	seen	in	the	sky	was	none	other	than
the	bishop’s	house	at	Conflans,	which	the	rioters	had	set	on	fire.
“It’s	terrifying,	yes,	it’s	frightful,”	said	the	young	lady.	“But	let’s	dance	while
we	can	today.	If	it	is	true	that	we	are	going	to	have	the	republic	tomorrow,	that
will	mean	the	end	of	feasts	and	balls	for	ages.”	.	.	.	The	ball	lasted	until	four	in
the	morning	and	there	was	no	trouble.	M.	de	Rothschild,	despite	his	great	desire
to	appear	gay,	is	sad	in	his	soul,	for	his	money	is	melting	in	his	vaults	like	an
icicle	in	the	heat.
The	combination	of	outward	bravado	and	inner	caution	continued	as	long	as
there	was	such	violence	in	the	streets	of	Paris.	But	the	mood	at	these	events	was
always	tense.	In	January	1832	the	duc	d’Orléans	was	affronted	when	he	heard
himself	referred	to	by	his	nickname	(“le	grand	poulot”)	by	a	Legitimist	guest	at
one	of	
James’s	parties—though	it	is	not	the	case	that	he	subsequently	refused
invitations	to	the	rue	Laffitte.
Even	in	periods	of	relative	political	tranquillity,	French	politics	seemed
volatile	(especially	to	Rothschilds	raised	in	London),	with	more	frequent
changes	of	ministry	than	in	England,	and	more	friction	between	crown	and
parliament.	All	these	intricate	political	shifts	had	to	be	followed	closely,	for,	as
James	put	it,	“a	lot	depends	on	what	sort	of	Ministry	we	get.”	In	February	1831,
for	example,	an	anxious	James	sought	reassurance	from	Louis	Philippe	that	the
crumbling	Laffitte	ministry	would	not	be	replaced	by	a	more	liberally	inclined
administration.	He	and	Lionel	were	“consoled”	to	hear	that	the	most	likely
successor	would	be	another	banker,	Périer,	and	that	Périer	intended	to	reduce	the
King’s	direct	influence	over	policy.	As	we	shall	see,	this	was	one	of	the	most
important	changes	of	government	of	the	period—and	one	which	James	claimed
to	have	personally	brought	about.	However,	Périer’s	hold	on	power	was	always
tenuous.	July	1831—when	elections	unfortunately	coincided	with	the
anniversary	of	revolution—was	a	time	of	renewed	political	unsteadiness,	with
Laffitte	failing	by	only	a	handful	of	votes	to	secure	election	as	president	of	the
Chamber.	When	Périer	nevertheless	resigned,	James	was	appalled.	Rothschild

--- Page 302 ---
relief	when	he	returned	to	office	after	a	matter	of	days	was	considerable.
Throughout	1831,	the	Paris	letters	monitored	the	health	of	his	ministry—
particularly	its	difficulties	over	reform	of	the	House	of	Peers—with	the
obsessive	anxiety	of	relatives	around	a	loved	one’s	bedside.	The	cartoonist
Delaporte	vividly	caught	the	volatile	mood	of	French	politics	in	June	1831	when
he	depicted	it	as	a	funfair.	To	the	left	James	and	Ouvrard	vie	for	control	of	a	see-
saw;	in	the	centre	Périer	struggles	to	register	on	the	“Dynamometer	or	Test	of
Strength	for	the	use	and	instruction	of	ministers”;	to	the	right	Louis	Philippe
slumps	unconscious	(see	illustration	8.i).
The	metaphor	of	an	ailing	government,	unfortunately,	became	a	reality	in	the
spring	of	1832—just	when	Lionel	began	to	sense	a	real	stabilisation	of	the
domestic	political	situation.	As	Salomon	fretted,	it	was	“unpleasant	to	admit”
that	stability	depended	“entirely	upon	a	single	individual.”	The	full	significance
of	this	dependence	suddenly	became	clear	when	Paris	was	struck	by	the	cholera
epidemic	which	swept	westwards	from	Russia	in	1831-2,	claiming	the	lives	of
18,000	people.	Not	only	did	the	epidemic	cause	new	riots	in	the	city	and
“complete	paralysis”	on	the	bourse;	it	also	afflicted	Périer	himself.	Once	again
James	was	obliged	to	put	on	a	public	show	of	confidence,	staying	in	Paris	while
thousands	of	wealthy	Parisians	fled	to	the	countryside.	But	the	combination	of
the	premier’s	death	(on	May	16)	and	the	landing	of	the	Bourbon	duchesse	de
Berry	in	the	south	of	the	country	was	yet	another	blow	to	political	stability.	It
was	not	until	November	that	the	threat	of	a	“Carlist”	civil	war	was	entirely
dispelled	by	the	duchesse’s	arrest.	Meanwhile	Paris	continued	to	be	subjected	to
republican	demonstrations	and	riots,	such	as	those	occasioned	by	the	funeral	of
General	Lamarque,	another	cholera	victim.
Although	James	and	Lionel	grew	increasingly	confident	that	the	regime	was
secure	after	1832—warmly	welcoming	every	legal	restriction	imposed	on
republican	activities—there	were	political	crises	of	varying	degrees	of	intensity
throughout	the	1830s.	Quite	apart	from	periodic	ministerial	crises,	there	were	a
number	of	attempts	on	the	King’s	life,	working	class	unrest	in	Lyon	in	1834,	an
abortive	republican	coup	in	1839	and	an	equally	abortive	Bonapartist	invasion	in
1840.	
On	closer	inspection,	relations	between	the	Rothschilds	and	the	July
Monarchy	were	only	superficially	intimate;	as	James’s	private	correspondence
makes	clear,	he	regarded	Louis	Philippe	and	most	of	his	ministers	as
incompetent.	The	King	was	“duplicitous”;	the	Finance	Minister	Humann	“an
ass”;	Thiers	“a	little	man,”	and	so	on.	“Well,	my	dear	Amschel,”	wrote	James
dismissively	as	yet	another	government	fell	in	early	1839,	“I	can	assure	you	that

--- Page 303 ---
within	two	years	these	old	Ministers	will	be	back	again	in	their	old	posts	because
our	French	Ministers	are	just	like	serviettes:	after	a	period	of	time	they	require
the	attention	of	a	washerwoman,	and	once	they	have	had	a	rest	they	are	as	good
[as	new]	again.”
8.i:	H.	Delaporte,
	
James	de	Rothschild	and	Louis	Philippe,	La	Caricature
,	No.
67	(June	23,	1831).
James’s	contempt	was	rooted	in	his	own	traumatic	economic	experience
during	the	revolution.	Between	May	1830	and	April	1831	the	price	of	3	and	4
per	cent	rentes	slid	inexorably	downwards	to	reach	a	nadir	of	46	and	75
respectively,	a	fall	of	30-40	per	cent	(see	illustration	8.ii).	This	was	despite	the
closing	of	the	bourse	during	the	July	days	and	the	injection	of	50	million	francs
by	the	Banque	de	France	in	August.	It	was	not	until	the	end	of	1831	that	prices
showed	any	sign	of	stabilising.	Given	that	on	the	eve	of	the	crisis	James	and
Nathan	had	held	a	total	of	6	million	francs	“nominal”	of	the	two	kinds	of
security,	for	which	they	had	paid	5.36	million	francs,	their	losses	could	have

--- Page 304 ---
been	as	much	as	2.1	million	francs	(£86,000)	on	the	rente	account	alone.	James
sold	at	least	some	of	these	rentes	before	the	nadir	was	reached,	but	as	before	he
was	reluctant	to	cut	his	losses.	“We	are	sitting	in	a	bowl	of	soup	and	we	must
now	wait	for	it	to	be	cooked,”	he	told	Nathan	in	late	August.	“Every	day	there
are	so	many	rentes	for	sale	but	there	are	no	buyers	to	be	found	.	.	.	I	hope	that
they	will	go	up,	God	willing,	and	then	one	must	get	out	of	these.	I	no	longer
have	the	confidence	which	I	had	previously,	and	it	will	be	a	long	time	yet	before
the	old	feeling	of	trust	returns	once	more.”
8.ii:	The	price	of	3	per	cent	and	4	per	cent	rentes,	May	1830-May	1831.

--- Page 305 ---
He,	Lionel	and	even	Hannah—who	was	in	Paris	for	her	daughter’s	accouche

--- Page 306 ---
ment—watched	hypnotised	by	the	hourly	fluctuations	of	the	market,	waiting	in
vain	for	the	crisis	to	“blow	over.”
6
	Indeed,	James	began	to	buy	new	rentes	in	the
hope	of	stabilising	the	market:	by	November	1830	his	total	holding	may	have
amounted	to	as	much	as	30	million	francs	(nominal).	But	still	the	prices	fell.
“We	have,”	he	lamented,	“too	many	rentes	hanging	round	our	neck	and	are
unable	to	compete	with	the	speculators	on	the	same	level.”	Five	months	later
Lionel	confessed	to	his	father:	“We	have	been	all	the	time	so	misled	by	the
abundancy	of	money	and	scarcity	of	stock,	&	by	the	peaceable	assurances	of	the
King,	that	we	never	could	make	up	our	minds	to	sell.”	Writing	from	Berlin,
Anselm	urged	a	final	liquidation	before	rentes	sank	any	further.	After	much
prevarication—“I	cannot	decide	to	accept	a	loss	of	40	per	cent”—James	was
ultimately	forced	to	sell	heavily	at	the	bottom	of	the	market	in	March	1831.
“Unfortunately,”	he	told	Nathan,	echoing	Apponyi,	“my	fortune	has	melted	away
because	I	have	been	realising	[that	is,	selling].”	He	had	“so	depleted”	his	capital
“that	I	do	not	wish	to	look	at	the	balance.”
Moreover,	the	French	crash	affected	other	bonds.	A	German	cartoon	of	1830
or	1831	shows	four	of	the	Rothschilds	(“the	Krähwinkler,”	after	the	imaginary
German	town	of	Krähwinkel)	vainly	struggling	to	keep	some	falling	bonds	in	the
air	with	the	aid	of	bellows	(see	illustration	8.iii).	It	is	impossible	to	quantify
exactly	the	extent	of	the	losses	suffered	by	the	Paris	house	at	this	time,	as	the
relevant	accounts	have	not	survived;	but	for	the	London	house	total	losses	in
1830	were	more	than	£56,000,	5	per	cent	of	the	house’s	capital,	and	it	seems	safe
to	assume	that	the	damage	was	worse	across	the	Channel.	Comparable	losses
bankrupted	Laffitte,	whose	firm	collapsed	even	as	he	reached	the	zenith	of	his
political	influence.

--- Page 307 ---
8.iii:	Anon.,
	
Die	Krähwinkler	suchen	die	Papiere	in	die	Höhe	zu	treiben
(1830-31).
As	it	was,	James	had	to	endure	a	measure	of	embarrassment.	In	November
1830	he	was	forced	to	suspend	payments	due	to	the	government	for	the	pre-
Revolution	loan.	Nor	could	he	deny	that	“that	damned	Ouvrard”	had	supplanted
him	as	the	dominant	figure	on	the	bourse:	“For	the	past	six	months,	the	man	has
had	a	lot	of	good	fortune	and	so	the	whole	world	follows	whatever	he	does	.	.	.
Whatever	move	he	makes	the	whole	stock	exchange	will	follow	suit.”	When
James	sought	to	participate	in	a	new	government	loan	in	March	1831,	another
old	rival	was	brutally	frank.	“For	several	months	now,”	Hottinguer	told	him,
“your	establishment	no	longer	makes	the	same	positive	impression	[as	in	the
past]	on	public	opinion.”
7
	
James	felt	obliged	to	speak	to	the	other	bankers	“in	a
stiff	tone	and	to	‘show	them	my	teeth’	as	they	must	appreciate	that	we	are	not	to
be	treated	off-handedly.”	But	it	was	some	time	before	he	was	able	to	restore	his
credibility	in	the	French	financial	world.	Indeed,	Lionel	began	to	detect	in	his
uncle	something	close	to	a	loss	of	nerve.	“Uncle	James	is	so	much	shaken	by	this
revolution,”	he	confided	in	his	father,	“that	I	assure	you	he	is	no	more	what	he
was,	if	he	sees	things	looking	well,	he	says,	we	must	go	to	the	old	prices,	and	if
the	contrary	is	the	case	and	the	r[ente]s	fall,	then	he	gets	immediately	frightened
and	sells	at	the	lowest	price.”
James	himself	became	increasingly	fatalistic	in	1831.	“We	can	now	expect

--- Page 308 ---
many	years	of	unrest	here	in	France,”	he	told	Nathan	gloomily	in	July,	“and
regrettably,	I	fear	we	will	lose	our	fortune	here,	and	have	no	hope	of	preventing
this	from	happening,	because	the	people	never	know	what	they	want.”	“For
some	time	now,	I	have	been	very	sick,”	he	wrote	a	month	later,	requesting	that
Salomon’s	son	Anselm	return	to	Paris	to	assist	him:
Every	day	we	have	new	scares,	and	every	day	new	surprises	hit	us.	Good	news	is
followed	by	a	fall,	and	bad	news	brings	a	rise	in	its	wake.	At	night	one	goes	to
sleep,	and	is	then	awoken	by	a	drum	making	a	terrible	din	in	the	street.	“Please
hide	all	your	securities	without	delay.”	.	.	.	I	promise	you,	so	help	me	God,	my
arms	are	trembling,	as	things	have	gone	badly	wrong	for	me.	I	did	some	buying,
so	prices	fell.	When	I	sell,	prices	go	up.	It	is	absolutely	disgusting.
By	October	he	was	feeling	“half	frantic,”	“nervous”	and	isolated:	“The	world	is
speculating	against	me,	and	I	am	speculating	against	the	world.”	It	was	not	until
early	1832	that	James	began	to	recover	his	confidence.	Curiously,	he	seems	to
have	rather	relished	riding	out	the	cholera	epidemic,	and	was	pleasantly
surprised	when	Périer’s	death	caused	only	a	minor	fall.	Only	when	matters	began
to	improve	in	the	summer	was	he	able	to	retreat	to	his	house	at	Boulogne,	where
he	took	to	bed	in	a	state	of	complete	exhaustion.
	
	
Consols	and	the	Constitution
The	principal	reason	for	James’s	financial	survival	was	the	role	played	by	the
other	Rothschild	houses	in	bailing	him	out.	Here,	not	for	the	last	time,	the	bank’s
multinational	character	proved	an	invaluable	source	of	strength.	Nathan’s	first
reaction	to	the	news	of	the	events	in	Paris	was	to	purchase	and	borrow	large
quantities	of	silver	and	gold	from	the	Bank	of	England—he	bought	gold	alone
worth	£779,000—and	send	it	at	once	to	his	brother.	This	is	what	James	meant
when	he	repeatedly	praised	Nathan’s	“decency,”	for	it	allowed	him	to	continue
paying	the	money	due	to	the	French	Treasury	under	the	terms	of	the	loan
agreement	concluded	earlier	in	the	
year—a	vital	show	of	financial	strength.	As
Hannah	told	her	husband	proudly,	“Your	exertion	in	sending	so	much	money
gives	great	pleasure	.	.	.	You	have	dear	Rothschild	behaved	uncommonly	well
and	every	one	is	quite	satisfied	with	you.”	One	reason	Nathan	was	able	to	bail
his	brother	out	was	that,	as	
The	Times
	later	said,	he	had	managed	to	sell	a
substantial	proportion	of	his	own	4	per	cent	rentes	before	the	revolution	broke

--- Page 309 ---
out.
8
	The	London	house	was	again	a	source	of	support	in	March	1831,	when
James	was	seeking	to	participate	in	a	new	French	loan:	access	to	the	London
market	remained	James’s	trump	card	in	Paris.	The	Naples	house	also	seems	to
have	assisted	by	sending	silver;	its	surviving	accounts	show	that	half-yearly
profits	were	unaffected	by	the	revolution.	Indirectly,	the	fact	that	the	Frankfurt
and	Vienna	houses	remained	on	a	sound	footing	also	helped.
Of	course,	this	would	not	have	been	the	case	if	the	revolutionary	wave	of
1830-32	had	affected	the	other	Rothschild	houses	as	directly	as	it	affected	the
French	house.	It	is	important	to	note	that	it	could	have.	There	were	widespread
fears	in	1830	that	Naples	would	succumb	once	again	to	revolution	as	well	as	the
Papal	states,	and	the	German	reverberations	might	have	been	felt	more	strongly
than	they	were	in	Vienna.	As	it	was,	Salomon	confided	in	Gentz	in	November
1830	that	he	was	“10	million	[gulden]	poorer	than	he	had	been	six	months
before.”	In	Frankfurt	too	there	were	grounds	for	anxiety,	not	least	because	of
events	in	neighbouring	Hesse-Kassel.	The	Elector	William	II	(who	had
succeeded	his	father	in	1821)	was	one	of	those	rulers	who	came	unstuck	in	1830,
when	citizens’	assemblies	in	Kassel,	Hanau	and	Fulda	demanded	the	summoning
of	a	parliament	(
Landtag
).	Initially,	the	main	bone	of	contention	was	William’s
overt	cohabitation	with	his	mistress;	but	the	looting	of	customs	houses	on	the
state	border	suggests	that	economic	grievances	also	played	a	part.	Since	1823	the
Elector	had	not	had	recourse	to	the	Rothschilds	for	financial	assistance.	But	in
the	crisis	of	1830	his	officials	appealed	to	Amschel	for	a	small	advance	of
150,000	gulden.	As	his	chief	minister	put	it:	“Your	most	humble	servants	are	not
in	a	position	to	propose	a	way	of	obtaining	the	advance	which	is	most	urgently
needed	other	than	through	the	house	of	Rothschild.”	They	were	not	the	only
ones:	requests	were	also	received	from	hard-pressed	governments	in	Hanover,
Württemberg	and	Oldenburg.	Given	the	growing	risk	of	German	revolutions	on
the	French	model,	however,	Amschel	was	prepared	to	lend	the	Elector	only
100,000	gulden.
Yet	when	the	Elector’s	son	Frederick	William	was	installed	as	co-regent	and
accepted	a	constitution	which	was	the	most	liberal	yet	seen	in	Germany,
Amschel’s	attitude	changed.	In	1831	he	arranged	two	loans	to	the	new	regime
totalling	1.35	million	gulden.	In	many	ways,	this	was	analogous	to	James’s
defection	from	Charles	X	to	Louis	Philippe	in	Paris.	And,	as	in	France,	it	did	not
take	long	for	the	more	advanced	liberals	to	become	dissillusioned	with	the	new
ruler.	Amschel	nevertheless	stuck	to	the	new	ruler	even	as	his	popularity
declined,	just	as	James	stuck	to	Louis	Philippe.	He	continued	to	act	as	banker	to

--- Page 310 ---
Frederick	William	and	his	unpopular	wife
9
	even	after	the	Hessian	government
resumed	a	course	(under	the	firmly	anti-liberal	Ludwig	Hassenpflug)	which	led
inevitably	to	a	messy	constitutional	crisis.	In	short,	Amschel	blew	with	the	wind.
He	and	his	brothers	evidently	had	little	respect	for	the	various	German	princes
endeavouring	to	retain	their	traditional	authority.	Salomon	advised	him	“not	to
pay	attention	to	the	declamations	and	discussions”	of	the	King	of	Württemberg
“as	I	know	this	prince	better	than	you:	his	views	are	always	wrong	and	his
opinions	are	always	changing,	and	whether	he	is	
courageous	or	cowardly	makes
no	odds,	[as]	I	have	more	confidence	in	the	opinion	of	a	child	than	in	that	of	this
prince.”	But	once	Metternich’s	influence	began	to	make	itself	felt	in	Germany
after	the	revolutionary	high-water	mark	of	the	Ham	bach	festival,	the	Frankfurt
house	wept	no	tears.	Even	this	very	modest	German	revolution	had	cost
Amschel	money,	as	Anthony	found	when	he	visited	Frankfurt.	The	failure	of	the
putsch
	in	Frankfurt	attempted	by	a	small	and	incompetent	group	of	radicals	in
April	1833	was	a	welcome	sign	that	the	political	tide	was	ebbing.
Nathan	in	London	also	experienced	his	share	of	political	turbulence.	Of
course,	events	in	Britain	were	less	violent	than	those	on	the	continent.	It	would
nevertheless	be	a	mistake	to	overlook	the	close	parallels	between	British	reform
on	the	one	hand	and	French	revolution	on	the	other,	not	least	because
contemporaries	were	so	conscious	of	these,	and	had	no	way	of	being	sure	that
the	former	would	avert	the	latter.	The	issues	at	stake	were	not	so	different:	the
freedom	of	the	press;	the	reduction	of	religious	disabilities	in	political	life
(which	had	already	caused	a	serious	political	crisis	in	1829);	the	extension	of	the
electoral	franchise;	the	constitutional	position	of	the	crown	relative	to	ministers
and	that	of	the	upper	house	of	parliament	relative	to	the	lower.	The	cholera	came
to	London	too.
10
	More	importantly,	the	financial	consequences	of	political	crisis
were	very	similar,	if	less	dramatic	in	London.	Had	the	Reform	crisis	in	Britain
been	even	slightly	more	serious,	then	James	might	have	found	his	brother	much
less	free	to	lend	assistance.
From	the	vantage	point	of	Paris,	it	seemed	at	first	unlikely	that	the	Whig
ministry	of	Earl	Grey	would	survive.	Indeed,	as	late	as	March	5,	1831—four
days	after	Lord	John	Russell	introduced	the	Reform	Bill—James	wrote	to
Salomon	assuring	him	that	“Peel,	Palmerston	and	Wellington	are	coming	to
power.”	But	this	was	wishful	thinking	on	the	part	of	his	old	Tory	friends	(Herries
was	his	source	for	this	tip).	For	his	part,	James	was	more	inclined	to	think	that	an
English	revolution	was	in	preparation,	similar	to	the	one	he	himself	had
experienced	the	year	before,	“because	should	the	Bill	be	passed,	then	this	will	be

--- Page 311 ---
seen	as	a	fatal	blow	to	England,	and	if	on	the	other	hand	the	Bill	is	not	passed
then	one	can	expect	a	great	deal	of	unrest.”	When	Parliament	was	dissolved	in
April,	James	had	a	sense	of	
déjà	vu
.	As	he	put	it	to	Lionel:	“If	the	Reform	Bill
passes,	it	will	bring	the	same	results	as	the	revolution	did	here,	the	King	wanted
to	take	away	from	the	people	all	their	rights,	which	brought	the	revolution.	In
England	the	King	gives	the	people	more	than	their	rights,	which	will	have
consequences	as	bad	as	the	contrary	has	had.”	He	made	the	same	point	directly
to	Nathan:
I	might	be	mistaken,	but	the	initial	impression	that	the	dissolution	of	Parliament
in	England	has	made	on	me	is	the	same	as	.	.	.	our	dissolution	made	when,	to
start	with,	no	one	viewed	the	matter	as	giving	cause	for	concern	but	then	we	fell
some	30	per	cent	and	I	hope	to	God	this	will	not	be	repeated	this	time	in
England.	But	I	am	very	anxious	.	.	.	Let	us	get	down	to	the	nitty	gritty.	I	am	not
at	all	pleased	with	the	situation	in	England.
As	James	saw	it,	“a	lot	of	antagonism	has	been	generated	against	the	wealthier
classes,	and	England	has	only	been	strong	until	now	precisely	because	they	[the
government]	had	the	support	of	the	wealthy	class.”	The	Reform	Bill	might	seem
moderate,	but	“the	supporters	of	.	.	.	Reform	will	almost	certainly	make	further
demands	later	on.”	He	fervently	wished	England	to	“put	a	stop	to	the	progress	of
the	infamous	liberal	spirit.”	“The	plebeians	believe	that	a	Parliamentary	reform
will	provide	
them	with	[free]	bread	and	cake,”	he	warned	Nathan,	“and	just	like
here,	they	are	revolutionaries	at	heart.	Once	the	Reform	Bill	has	been	passed,
they	will	come	up	with	new	demands.”	The	riots	in	Bristol	and	elsewhere	in
October	1831	seemed	to	confirm	this	diagnosis.
Lionel	acknowledged	that	there	was	a	parallel	between	France	and	England.
“We	have	had	a	revolution	and	are	now	quiet;	in	England	you	are	in	the	middle
of	your	revolution,	&	you	must	wait	’til	it	is	over.”	However,	he	was	far	less
worried	by	this	than	his	uncle.	This	was	partly	a	reflection	of	his	liberal	outlook.
“I	am	very	pleased	to	see	that	this	Reform	Bill	has	had	a	little	effect	upon	some
of	the	aristocracy,”	he	commented	in	a	revealing	letter	to	his	parents.	“It	is	a	very
good	thing,	some	of	those	great	persons	were	really	insupportable,	the	great
difference	that	they	always	made	between	the	different	classes	will	soon	be	done
away	with,	&	the	society	in	England	will	be	more	like	that	here,	which	is	by	far
more	agreeable.”	There	is	more	than	a	hint	of	Disraeli’s	fictional	Adrian
Neuchatel	here	(“Well;	we	City	men	must	see	what	we	can	do	against	the
dukes”).

--- Page 312 ---
But	Lionel’s	attitude	was	rooted	in	pragmatic	considerations:	it	had	more	to	do
with	the	connection	between	the	prospects	of	the	Reform	Bill	and	the	price	of
government	bonds.	Between	January	1830	(when	they	stood	at	95.6)	and	March
1831	(75.4),	consol	prices	fell	by	20	per	cent—a	less	dramatic	fall	than	in	Paris,
but	nevertheless	a	substantial	decline.	The	sharpest	fall	came	between	October
1830	and	January	the	following	year	(see	illustration	8.iv),	but	prices	remained
below	their	average	level	in	1829	(91)	until	1834.
Although	international	concerns	were	paramount	in	the	City	(as	they	were	on
the	Paris	bourse),	domestic	factors	also	played	a	part	in	this	crisis.	Notoriously,
the	Duke	of	Wellington’s	intransigent	speech	against	reform	on	November	11
provoked	a	fall	of	more	than	six	points,	though	the	slide	had	actually	begun	two
months	before.	At	the	same	time—and	this	was	more	of	a	problem	than	in
France—there	was	a	sharp	monetary	tightening	in	1830-31	as	the	Bank	of
England’s	reserve	fell,	providing	the	inspiration	for	the	Radical	Francis	Place’s
famous	slogan	of	the	following	year:	“To	stop	the	Duke,	go	for	[meaning
withdraw]	gold!”	In	short,	it	began	to	seem	as	if	the	financial	markets	wanted	the
Reform	Bill	to	pass.	In	Paris,	James	made	this	connection	as	early	as	March
1831,	just	after	the	bill	had	passed	its	second	reading	by	a	single	vote.	“That	the
Reformers	are	winning,”	he	argued	in	early	May,	“can	at	the	present	moment
only	have	a	positive	effect	and	cause	a	rise	in	the	stocks.”	Lionel	agreed,
expecting	the	passage	of	the	bill	to	produce	“a	very	great	effect,”	and	strongly
favouring	the	creation	of	new	peers	to	force	the	bill	through	the	Lords.	Both
were	prepared	for	the	Lords’	rejection	of	the	bill	to	cause	a	further	fall	in	prices.
By	contrast,	the	man	on	the	spot	seems	to	have	been	less	ready	to	see	the
connection	between	Reform	and	financial	recovery.	This	was	partly	because
Nathan’s	identification	with	Wellington—which	led	to	his	windows	being
broken	by	demonstrators—made	him	instinctively	anti-Reform.	But	it	was	also
partly	because	the	fluctuations	of	the	London	market	after	March	1831	were	less
severe	than	those	in	more	volatile	Paris.	Consol	prices	in	fact	remained	relatively
stable	when	the	Lords	rejected	the	bill	in	October	1831.	This	puzzled	even	some
members	of	the	British	government.	When	the	Vice-President	of	the	Board	of
Trade,	Charles	Poulett	Thomson,	dined	with	James	the	following	month,	he
declared:	“Thank	God,	I	have	part	of	my	money	invested	in	foreign	stocks,	but	I
consider	our	country	is	very	sick,	and	am	surprised	that	stocks	stand	so	high.”
Nevertheless,	by	February	1832	
Nathan	appears	to	have	accepted	that	a	Reform
Bill	would	have	to	be	passed.	There	is	no	other	way	of	interpreting	his	attitude
when	Wellington	was	called	on	to	form	an	anti-Reform	government	following

--- Page 313 ---
William	IV’s	refusal	to	create	fifty	new	peers.	As	Charles	Arbuthnot	told	the
Duke,
Rothschild	.	.	.	came	to	tell	me	that	if	you	let	it	be	known,	as	soon	as	you	meet
Parliament	that,	whatever	may	be	your	own	opinion	of	Reform,	you	are	resolved
not	to	disappoint	expectations	which	are	so	greatly	raised	.	.	.	you	will	surmount
all	your	difficulties.	He	says	that	among	the	monied	men	there	is	an	alarm	lest
there	should	be	such	an	opposition	to	all	Reform	as	would	cause	commotions	.	.	.
He	assured	me	that	the	general	feeling	was	that	you	would	surmount	your
difficulties	if	men’s	minds	were	tranquillised	as	above	stated,	and	if,	having	the
reins	in	your	hand,	you	were	resolved	to	keep	them.	He	is	determined,	he	said,	to
keep	up	the	Funds	to	his	utmost,	and	he	is	confident	he	will	succeed.
8.iv:	The	weekly	closing	price	of	3	per	cent	consols,	1828-1832.

--- Page 314 ---
Or,	as	Moses	Montefiore	summarised	Nathan’s	argument	more	pithily,	the	Duke

--- Page 315 ---
should	“form	a	Liberal	Government,	and	.	.	.	consent	to	some	reforms	.	.	.	he
must	go	with	the	world,	for	the	world	would	not	with	him.”	This	was	no	more
than	a	circuitous	way	of	telling	Wellington	to	throw	in	the	towel,	which	he	duly
did	two	days	later.
What	made	Nathan	change	his	mind?	The	obvious	answer	is	that	he	genuinely
feared	another	financial	crisis	of	the	sort	which	had	driven	Wellington	from
office	the	previous	autumn.	Consol	prices	had	already	fallen	slightly—from	85
on	May	9	to	83.25	on	May	12—and	it	may	be	(as	some	observers	suspected)	that
Nathan	also	warned	Wellington	of	a	renewed	run	on	the	Bank	of	England’s
reserve.	Yet	the	“panic”	in	Paris	was	not	as	great	as	Lionel	had	anticipated,	and
the	predictions	that	Grey’s	return	would	boost	consol	prices	“to	their	former
level”	proved	wrong.	They	were	in	fact	scarcely	affected	by	the	Duke’s
resignation	or	by	the	passage	of	the	Reform	Bill	itself;	if	anything,	they	reopened
slightly	lower	after	the	royal	assent	was	granted.	Another	possible	explanation	is
that	the	British	Rothschilds	underwent	a	kind	of	political	conversion.	As	we
have	seen,	there	is	at	least	some	evidence	that	from	as	early	as	1829	Nathan,	his
wife	and	his	children	were	shifting	their	political	ground	because	of	Tory
opposition	to	Jewish	emancipation.	In	addition,	the	Whigs	appeared	better	able
than	the	Tories	to	cope	with	the	new	threats	of	Irish	political	Catholicism	and
English	radicalism.	The	enthusiasm	of	Anthony	and	Lionel	for	the	Whig	victory
in	the	1832	elections	was	sincere;	and	there	is	no	evidence	of	Rothschild	support
when,	largely	at	the	King’s	instigation,	Peel	attempted	to	form	a	government	in
1834.	Nor	is	it	without	significance	that	Nathan	was	willing	to	manage	the	£15
million	loan	necessary	to	compensate	the	slave-owners	after	the	government
abolished	slavery.	Buxton’s	recollections	of	Nathan	are	often	quoted;	but	the
significance	of	their	dining	together	is	seldom	pointed	out.	In	fact,	Buxton	was
the	leader	of	the	Anti-Slavery	Society,	and	his	meeting	with	Nathan	came
immediately	after	the	legislation	freeing	the	slaves	had	been	passed.	Just	as
James	quickly	aligned	himself	with	the	
doctrinaire
	liberals	after	the	revolution	in
France,	so	too,	it	seems,	did	Nathan	bend	with	the	Whiggish	wind	of	reform	in
England.
Heine	thus	undoubtedly	exaggerated	when	he	sought	to	portray	“Rothschild”
as	a	revolutionary.	But	he	was	absolutely	right	in	identifying	the	brothers’	lack	of
commitment	to	the	politics	of	reaction.	When	reform	came—and	even	when	it
came	by	violence—they	accepted	it.

--- Page 316 ---
NINE
The	Chains	of	Peace	(1830-1833)
Those	who	want	war	will	doubtless	turn	to	other	bankers.
—FRIEDRICH	GENTZ,	1830
	
	
	
	
Despite	the	ease	with	which	they	shifted	allegiances	from	Bourbon	to	Orléans,
from	Tory	to	Whig,	the	Rothschilds	did	not	survive	the	1830	revolution	purely
by	adapting	to	domestic	political	change.	For	the	internal	threat—the	threat
which	prompted	James	to	bury	bonds	in	the	gardens	at	Suresnes—was	in	many
ways	the	lesser	threat	posed	by	the	revolutions	of	the	period.	Far	more	serious
from	a	financial	point	of	view	was	the	possibility	that	the	revolutions	might	lead
indirectly	to	a	war	between	the	great	powers.	The	most	striking	point	to	emerge
from	the	private	correspondence	of	the	period	is	that	this	was	the	Rothschilds’
real	fear;	and	it	is	easy	to	see	why.	A	revolution—or	even	a	reform	crisis—
primarily	affected	bonds	in	one	country.	A	war	would	have	caused	a	severe
slump	in	the	price	of	
all
	government	securities	in	all	markets.	A	domestic	crisis
in	Paris	could	be	withstood	provided	London,	Frankfurt,	Vienna	and	Naples
stayed	quiet.	A	European	war	would	have	hit	all	five	houses	simultaneously.	The
Rothschild	correspondence	shows	that	this	fear	was	paramount	in	1830-32.	“You
can’t	begin	to	imagine	what	might	happen	should	we	get	war,	God	forbid,”
wrote	James	in	October	1830,	“for	if	that	were	the	case,	then	all	the	securities
would	suffer	such	a	fall	that	it	would	be	impossible	to	sell	anything.”	A	month
later	he	sought	to	quantify	the	risk:	“We	have	a	holding	of	900,000	rentes	[30
million	francs	nominal];	if	peace	is	preserved	they	will	be	worth	75	per	cent,
while	in	case	of	war	they	will	drop	to	45	per	cent	.	.	.	I	am	convinced	that	if

--- Page 317 ---
peace	is	maintained	rentes	will	improve	in	three	months	by	at	least	10	per	cent	.	.
.”
This	helps	explain	why	so	many	contemporaries	believed	that	the	Rothschilds
not	only	favoured	peace	but	used	their	financial	leverage	to	preserve	it.	Ludwig
Börne,	for	example,	explicitly	argued	that	Rothschild	sales	of	Austrian
government	bonds	had	limited	Metternich’s	diplomatic	room	for	manoeuvre	in
1831,	when	the	Prince	was	itching	to	check	forcibly	the	spread	of	revolution	not
only	in	Italy	but	in	Belgium.	He	also	implied	strongly	that	the	Rothschilds	were
keen	to	see	France	adopting	a	more	pacific	policy	towards	Austria:	“If	the	house
of	Rothschild	sat	on	the	throne	of	France,	the	world	would	be	relieved	of	the
great	dread	of	a	war	between	that	powerful	house	and	the	house	of	Habsburg.”
Similar	claims	were	
made	by	political	insiders	too,	for	example	by	the	Austrian
diplomat	Count	Prokesch	von	Osten	in	December	1830:	“It	is	all	a	question	of
ways	and	means	and	what	Rothschild	says	is	decisive,	and	he	won’t	give	any
money	for	war.”	Two	years	later	the	Austrian	Finance	Minister	Baron	Kübeck
regarded	Salomon	as	synonymous	with	“peace.”	Nor	was	it	only	Austria	which
was	perceived	to	be	subject	to	Rothschild	pressure:	Metternich	and	his
ambassador	in	Paris,	Apponyi,	alleged	that	the	French	government	was	even
more	susceptible.	As	early	as	1828,	Prince	Pückler	was	moved	to	compare	the
source	of	the	Thames	“with	Napoleon	who,	born	incognito	in	Ajaccio,	made	all
the	thrones	of	the	earth	quake	.	.	.	the	avalanche	which	launches	itself	under	the
claw	of	a	starling	and	five	minutes	later	buries	a	village—and	.	.	.	Rothschild,
whose	father	sold	ribbons,	and	without	whom	no	power	in	Europe	today	seemed
able	to	make	war.”	The	Prussian	diplomat	Achim	von	Arnim	said	much	the	same
in	the	1840s	when	he	observed	how	few	governments	were	unconstrained	by	the
“golden	chains	of	that	House.”
Such	claims	very	quickly	became	integral	to	the	Rothschild	myth.	In	his	anti-
Semitic	tract	
The	Jews—Kings	of	the	Epoch
	(1846),	Alphonse	Toussenel	made
the	point	succinctly:	“The	Jew	
speculates	on	peace
,	that	is	on	a	rise,	and	that
explains	why	peace	in	Europe	has	lasted	for	fifteen	years.”	Later	writers	put	it
even	more	crudely.	Both	Capefigue	and	Chirac	purported	to	quote	a	Rothschild
saying:	“There	will	be	no	war	because	the	Rothschilds	do	not	want	it.”	In
Morton’s	words,	“the	brothers	became	the	most	militant	pacifists	ever.”	Gutle
Rothschild	is	frequently	credited	with	the	declaration:	“It	won’t	come	to	war;	my
sons	won’t	provide	money	for	it.”
Publicly,	the	brothers	liked	to	encourage	such	notions,	as	it	made	them	appear
both	potent	and	benign.	“Do	you	know	who	is	viceroy	and	even	king	in	France?”

--- Page 318 ---
the	Countess	Nesselrode	asked	her	husband	in	December	1840.	“It	is	Rothschild.
At	his	dinner,	just	recently,	I	had	plenty	of	time	for	a	lengthy	chat	with	him;
without	saying	anything	to	him	to	give	away	my	own	views,	I	induced	him	to
express	himself	freely.	He	is	bored	with	[the	French	premier]	Thiers,	and	as	for
his	ministers”:
“I	know	them	all,”	he	said,	“	I	see	them	every	day	and	as	soon	as	I	discern	that
the	course	they	are	following	is	contrary	to	the	interests	of	the	governments,	I
call	on	the	king,	whom	I	see	whenever	I	wish,	and	I	inform	him	of	my
observations.	As	he	knows	that	I	have	a	lot	to	lose,	and	that	all	I	desire	is	peace,
he	has	every	confidence	in	me,	listens	to	me	and	takes	account	of	all	that	I	say	to
him.”
But	how	far	was	this	mere	dinner-table	bragging—like	Nathan’s	to	Prince
Pückler	in	the	1820s?	Does	the	brothers’	private	correspondence	substantiate	the
claim	that	they	used	their	position	of	influence	to	preserve	peace	after	1829?
Here	it	is	necessary	to	distinguish	the	Rothschilds’	use	of	financial	leverage—
principally	their	ability	to	refuse	loans	to	governments	contemplating	war—from
the	less	tangible	influence	which	the	Rothschilds	were	able	to	exercise	in	their
capacity	as	a	channel	of	diplomatic	communication.	This	second	function	grew
rapidly	in	importance	in	the	course	of	the	1830s,	though	it	had	already	begun	to
develop	in	the	previous	decade.	In	essence,	statesmen	and	diplomats	began	to
make	use	of	the	Rothschilds’	network	of	communication	for	two	reasons:
because	it	was	quicker	than	the	official	courier	systems	used	for	relaying
diplomatic	correspondence,	and	because	messages	of	a	non-binding	nature	could
be	sent	from	government	to	government	indirectly	via	the	brothers’	own
correspondence	with	one	another.	It	is	not	hard	to	see	why	the	brothers	were
willing	to	provide	this	service:	it	gave	them	advance	knowledge	of	foreign
policy	as	it	was	being	formed,	and	this	in	turn	allowed	them	to	make	better-
informed	investment	decisions.	The	difficulty	for	the	historian	is	that	the
brothers	did	not	always	explicitly	distinguish	their	own	views	from	those	of
ministers	when	acting	as	a	diplomatic	channel:	it	is	from	this	period	that	they
began	to	use	the	word	“we”	in	their	letters	not	only	in	the	sense	of	“we
Rothschilds,”	but	also	in	the	sense	of	“our	government,”	the	first	hint	of	an
identification	with	the	five	different	states	where	the	brothers	now	lived.	Nor	is	it
always	apparent	whether	it	was	the	Rothschilds	who	were	actually	influencing
the	direction	of	policy,	or	policy	which	was	influencing	the	Rothschilds.
	

--- Page 319 ---
Lines	of	Communication
The	development	and	nature	of	the	brothers’	communications	network	is
therefore	essential	to	an	understanding	of	the	financial	diplomacy	of	the	1830s.
As	usual,	a	certain	amount	of	mythology	needs	to	be	stripped	away—above	all,
the	notion	that	the	Rothschilds,	like	Disraeli’s	Sidonia,	were	at	the	centre	of	an
almost	supernatural	intelligence	service:	“No	Minister	of	State	had	such
communication	with	secret	agents	and	political	spies	.	.	.	To	these	sources	he
owed	that	knowledge	of	strange	and	hidden	things	which	often	startled	those
who	listened	to	him	.	.	.	The	secret	history	of	the	world	was	his	pastime.”	It	is
true	that	by	the	end	of	the	1840s	they	had	established	a	formidable	network	of
agents	and	regular	correspondents,	an	important	function	of	which	was	to	keep
New	Court	abreast	of	economic	and	political	developments	the	world	over.	But
in	the	twenty	years	after	Waterloo	(the	news	of	which	was	the	first	great	coup	of
Rothschild	communications)	their	system	was	more	rudimentary.	Like	anybody
who	wished	to	conduct	international	correspondence,	their	letters—and
sometimes	their	lives—were	at	the	mercy	of	the	elements.	In	1817,	Salomon	and
his	wife	were	“99	per	cent”	drowned	when	the	carriage	taking	them	from	Paris
to	Rotterdam	was	caught	in	a	storm	while	crossing	a	river.	The	whole	journey
lasted	around	seventy-two	hours.	That	was	exceptional:	letters	sent	from	Paris	to
Frankfurt	usually	took	just	forty-eight	hours	in	1814;	but	mail	from	London
could	take	up	to	a	week	to	reach	Frankfurt,	and	the	service	from	Paris	to	Berlin
took	nine	days	in	1817.	Compulsive	correspondents	as	they	were—even
scribbling	letters	in	antechambers	while	waiting	to	see	ministers—the	brothers
were	always	trying	to	find	ways	of	speeding	up	the	postal	service.	As	we	have
seen,	from	1815,	if	not	before,	Nathan	was	relying	on	his	agents	at	Dover	and
Calais	to	expedite	his	letters	by	paying	premiums	to	the	captains	of	ships	for
express	delivery.	It	seems	he	also	sometimes	sent	copies	of	the	same	letter	by
more	than	one	route,	to	reduce	the	risk	of	delays.	In	1814	Amschel	proposed	an
ingenious	scheme	for	overcoming	delays	at	the	Frankfurt	post	office:	if	the
exchange	rate	rose,	his	brothers	should	send	their	letters	in	blue	envelopes;	if	it
fell,	in	red,	“then	Mayer	at	the	post	office	can	immediately	let	me	know	if	I	have
a	red	or	a	blue	letter,	which	saves	half	a	day.”
But	this	did	not	solve	the	problem	that	many	of	the	offices	in	Germany
through	which	the	brothers’	letters	passed	were	“lodges”	under	the	control	of	the
Austrian	secret	police,	so	that	mail	was	routinely	opened	and	copied	if	it
appeared	to	contain	politically	sensitive	or	useful	information.	The	same	lack	of
confidentiality	ruled	out	
anything	more	than	occasional	use	of	the	diplomatic

--- Page 320 ---
“bags”	sent	by	courier	from	capital	to	capital.	There	was	therefore	no	alternative
but	to	employ	private	couriers,	which	the	Rothschilds	began	to	do	(at	the	latest)
in	1814.	The	problem	was	that	couriers	were	expensive,	and	the	brothers
constantly	bickered	about	when	their	use	was	justified:	if	couriers	were	sent	too
often,	operating	costs	mounted,	but	if	they	were	not	sent,	vital	news	could	arrive
late.	A	related	problem	was	that	the	very	arrival	of	a	courier	alerted	competitors
to	the	probability	of	important	news:	letters	to	third	parties	were	therefore
sometimes	backdated	and	couriers	sent	in	disguise	to	put	rivals	off	the	scent.	By
the	mid-1820s,	with	costs	less	of	a	concern,	couriers	were	being	sent	regularly:
in	December	1825	alone,	the	Paris	house	sent	eighteen	couriers	to	Calais	(and
hence	to	London),	three	to	Saarbrücken,	one	to	Brussels	and	one	to	Naples.	The
practice	was	habit-forming:	in	1827	Salomon	was	infuriated	when	he	could	not
find	a	courier	willing	to	set	off	from	Vienna	for	Strasbourg	at	10	p.m.	on
Christmas	Day.
Unfortunately—as	with	every	innovation	in	communications—it	was	not	long
before	the	Rothschilds’	rivals	were	sending	just	as	many	couriers	of	their	own.
Moreover,	no	courier	ever	arrived	soon	enough:	James’s	complaint	in	1833	that	a
courier	from	London	had	arrived	“one	hour	too	late”	was	the	classic	expression
of	the	perennial	capitalist	desire	for	faster	communications.	From	1824,	carrier
pigeons	were	also	employed,	though	it	was	apparently	not	until	the	1840s	that
the	brothers	used	these	regularly	enough	to	warrant	a	crude	code:	“A	B	in	our
pigeon	dispatches	means	buy	stock,	the	news	is	good.	C	D	.	.	.	means	sell	stock
the	news	is	bad.”	It	was	not	until	after	the	mid-1830s	that	the	development	of	the
railway,	the	telegraph	and	the	steamship	opened	a	new	era	in	communications—
one	in	which	it	would	be	a	good	deal	harder	for	the	Rothschilds	to	steal	a	march
on	their	competitors.	In	one	of	his	first	references	to	“telegraphic
communication,”	James	complained	to	Nathan:	“Over	here	people	are	too	well
informed	and	there	is	therefore	little	opportunity	to	do	anything.”	By	1840	Carl
was	advising	the	Paris	house	not	to	send	couriers	to	Naples,	as	the	steamer
arrived	just	as	quickly	and	couriers	merely	alerted	the	“small	speculators”	that
something	was	up.	Another	important	point	is	that	as	press	censorship	became
less	strict	after	1830,	it	became	unnecessary	to	provide	so	much	detailed	political
news	in	private	letters:	by	the	1840s,	Nat	routinely	referred	his	brothers	to	the
French	newspapers	where	ten	years	before	his	uncle	would	have	written	the
latest	political	news	himself.
So	it	was	in	fact	for	a	relatively	short	period—between	around	1815	and	1835
—that	the	Rothschild	courier	service	had	a	real	edge	on	alternative	forms	of

--- Page 321 ---
communication.	During	those	years,	the	Rothschilds	were	able	to	offer	a
distinctive	service	to	those	politicians	and	diplomats	whom	they	wished	to
cultivate.	Not	only	could	they	offer	them	private	banking	services;	they	could
also	deliver	their	letters	ahead	of	the	regular	post.	While	in	London	in	1822,
Chateaubriand	received	“an	important	despatch”	from	the	duchesse	de	Duras
through	her	“protégé	Rothschild.”	At	Verona	in	the	same	year	and	at	Pressburg
in	1825,	Metternich	made	use	of	Salomon’s	couriers	to	Vienna	and	London,
evidently	putting	more	trust	in	the	Rothschilds’	couriers	than	his	own.	The	idea
soon	caught	on.	By	1823,	“receiving	news	from	Rothschild”	was	an	integral	part
of	the	Countess	Nesselrode’s	routine.	In	1826	it	was	reported	that:
the	Rothschild	clerks	who	travel	as	couriers	from	Naples	to	Paris	about	once	or
twice	a	month	take	with	them	all	the	despatches	of	the	French,	English	and
Spanish	ministers	accredited	in	Naples,	Rome	and	Florence.	In	addition	to	this
not	inconsiderable	correspondence,	they	also	deal	with	the	communications
passing	between	the	Courts	of	Naples	and	Rome	and	their	legations	at	Turin,
Paris,	London,	Madrid,	Lisbon	etc.	as	well	as	all	private	letters	that	are	of	any
importance.
When	a	minor	crisis	in	Franco-Austrian	relations	blew	up	in	1826,	it	was	a
Rothschild	courier	who	carried	Villèle’s	placatory	note	to	Metternich.	Perhaps
the	most	distinguished—if	not	the	most	powerful—enthusiasts	for	the
Rothschild	postal	service	after	1840	were	the	young	British	Queen	Victoria	and
her	consort	Prince	Albert.	It	was	probably	the	latter—whose	Uncle	Leopold	was
an	old	Rothschild	friend—who	introduced	the	former	to	the	system.
1
	From	the
moment	he	arrived	in	England,	Albert	(through	his	close	adviser	Christian	von
Stockmar	and	his	British	secretary	George	Anson)	made	regular	use	of
Rothschild	couriers	for	his	correspondence	with	the	continent.	Soon	Victoria	was
doing	the	same,	as	well	as	relying	on	the	Rothschilds	to	arrange	minor	banking
services	and	even	hotel	reservations.	In	June	1841	she	assured	Leopold	that	she
“always”	sent	all	her	letters	to	Germany	“wh.	are	of	any	
real
	consequence	.	.	.
thro’	Rothschild	wh.	is	perfectly	
safe
	and	very	quick.”
All	this	meant	that	the	Rothschilds	were	in	a	position	to	provide	a	unique
news	service	to	the	European	elite.	Major	political	events	as	well	as	confidential
information	could	be	relayed	from	one	city	to	another	well	ahead	of	official
channels.	Nathan’s	early	news	of	the	outcome	of	Waterloo	was	only	the	first	of
many	such	coups.	As	early	as	1817	James	was	offering	to	relay	details	of	French
diplomatic	despatches	from	Paris	to	London—made	available	by	a	“friend”	in

--- Page 322 ---
government	circles—so	that	they	reached	Nathan	before	the	despatches
themselves	reached	the	French	ambassador.	The	British	ambassador	in	Paris	also
began	to	rely	on	Nathan	for	advance	news	from	London.	In	1818	a	British
diplomat	bound	for	the	Aix	Congress	was	“struck	very	much”	by	Nathan’s
“correct	information	as	to	the	details	of	our	party	and	his	knowledge	of	the
persons	likely	to	compose	it,	some	of	whose	names	I	believe	had	not	even
transpired	at	the	Foreign	Office.”	When	the	duc	de	Berry	was	assassinated	in
February	1820,	it	was	the	Rothschilds	who	broke	the	story	in	Frankfurt	and
Vienna.	Likewise,	when	Queen	Caroline	died	in	1821,	it	was	again	the
Rothschilds	who	spread	the	news	to	Paris.	Canning,	as	we	have	seen,	disliked
the	fact	that	the	Rothschilds	constantly	scooped	British	ambassadorial	reports;
but	he	could	hardly	afford	to	ignore	news	like	the	Turkish	capitulation	at	Acker
man.	By	1830,	as	Talleyrand	observed,	“The	English	Cabinet	always	obtain	their
information	by	[Rothschild]	ten	or	twelve	hours	before	the	arrival	of	Lord
Stuart’s	despatches,	and	this	is	not	to	be	wondered	at,	seeing	that	the	vessels
which	carry	Rothschild’s	couriers	belong	to	that	firm,	they	take	no	passengers,
and	start	at	all	hours	.	.	.”	Villèle	too	had	to	heed	Rothschild	information,	even
though	he	(like	Canning)	strongly	suspected	the	brothers	were	manipulating	the
news	to	influence	the	stock	market.
That	of	course	was	the	whole	idea;	or	rather	the	principal	aim	of	Rothschild
communications	was,	by	getting	political	news	first,	to	buy	or	sell	securities
before	the	news	had	influenced	the	markets	as	a	whole.	Yet	this	was	not	always
achieved.	
The	fact	that	the	Rothschilds	broke	the	news	of	the	French	revolution
of	July	1830	not	only	to	the	British	Foreign	Secretary	Lord	Aberdeen	in	London
but	also	(via	Frankfurt)	to	Metternich	in	Bohemia	is	well	known.	But	it	is	worth
pointing	out	that	their	reports	were	not	at	first	believed.	And,	as	we	have	seen,
the	outbreak	of	the	revolution	caught	the	Rothschilds	themselves	completely	by
surprise,	plunging	the	French	house	into	an	economic	crisis	from	which	it	was
only	with	difficulty	extricated.
	
Bankers’	Diplomacy
The	Rothschild	letters	reveal	the	extent	and	limitations	of	this	communications
system	in	the	turbulent	years	after	July	1830.	In	Paris,	James’s	political
connections	were	second	to	none.	“I	am	constantly	being	consulted	about
everything,”	James	told	Nathan	in	1831,	and	that	never	really	changed:	just	as	he
later	claimed	to	Countess	Nesselrode,	he	really	did	see	the	King,	his	ministers
and	the	principal	ambassadors	on	an	almost	daily	basis.	Nathan	too	seems	to

--- Page 323 ---
have	had	access	to	senior	government	figures,	notably	the	diplomat	Frederick
Lamb,	in	addition	to	key	foreign	diplomats	in	London	like	Talleyrand,	Esterházy
and	Bülow;	but	there	is	no	question	that	his	influence	was	less	than	it	had	been
under	the	Tories.	In	Vienna,	Salomon	continued	to	enjoy	direct	access	to
Metternich,	and	relayed	copies	of	his	brothers’	letters	to	him	whenever	they
contained	diplomatically	important	information.	By	comparison,	the	Frankfurt
and	Naples	houses	were	somewhat	out	of	the	great	power	“loop.”	Influence	in
the	other	key	capitals—St	Petersburg	and	Berlin,	as	well	as	Brussels	and	the
Hague—was	limited	to	that	which	could	be	exercised	through	agents	(for
example,	Gasser	in	Russia	and	Richtenberger	in	Belgium)	or	by	occasional
personal	visits.
The	first	diplomatic	question	to	be	discussed	via	Rothschild	correspondence	in
1830	was	whether	the	great	powers	would	actually	recognise	Louis	Philippe	as
king	or	intervene	against	the	new	regime.	On	July	31	James	wrote	to	Nathan:	“I
hope	to	God	that	your	Government	is	not	thinking	of	intervening,	for	if	they	do
so,	then	we	will	get	a	general	war.”	Lionel	summed	up	the	argument	for
recognition	a	fortnight	later:
[O]nly	one	thing	that	is	completely	requisite	is	that	the	king	should	be
immediately	recognised,	if	it	is	not	done	soon,	one	cannot	say	what	may	be	the
end	.	.	.	Until	the	king	is	recognised	the	neighbouring	provinces	may	always
wish	to	join	this	Governmt.[;]	this	will	encourage	also	the	disturbances	there	.	.	.
France	only	wishes	peace,	wants	nothing	from	other	countries	and	knows	that	it
only	has	to	cultivate	its	own	resources	to	be	one	of	the	greatest	nations[;]	at
present	there	are	in	France	1,500,000	men	in	the	National	guard,	all	armed	fit	for
service,	besides	these	the	whole	army[;]	what	use	[would]	it	be	for	other	powers
to	think	of	making	an	attack	on	this	country[?]	.	.	.	Uncle	James	was	with	the
king	today,	being	a	member	of	a	company	who	paid	their	respects	to	him[;]	the
king	gave	him	the	highest	assurances	of	peace	and	of	his	good	wishes,	and	of	his
hopes	that	everything	will	go	on	in	the	best	way	possible.
Louis	Philippe’s	message	to	James	at	that	meeting—“My	most	ardent	desires	are
centred	upon	the	peace	of	Europe,	and	I	hope	that	the	states	will	resume	their
former	friendly	relations	with	France”—was	duly	passed	on	to	Metternich
through	the	Austrian	ambassador	Apponyi.
However,	recognition	of	Louis	Philippe	did	not,	as	Lionel	had	hoped,	prevent
revolutionary	outbreaks	elsewhere.	From	the	moment	news	reached	Paris	of	the
“full-blown	revolution”	which	had	broken	out	in	Brussels	on	August	25,	a	new

--- Page 324 ---
possibility	arose:	that	the	spread	of	revolution	outside	France	would	precipitate	a
war	between	France	and	one	or	more	of	the	conservative	powers,	Prussia,	Russia
and	Austria—and	perhaps	even	England.	This	was	a	far	more	plausible	scenario
than	the	possibility	of	direct	foreign	intervention	in	France	for	two	reasons.
Firstly,	the	other	powers	had	not	only	treaty	obligations	(dating	from	1814-15)
but	also	strategic	interests	in	Belgium.	Secondly,	foreign	intervention	in
Belgium,	or	anywhere	else	where	revolutions	broke	out,	was	likely	to	move	the
French	regime	to	the	left,	because	of	the	historic	link	between	republicanism	and
revolutionary	internationalism.	Metternich	was	not	the	only	one	who
remembered	the	1790s,	when	France	had	combined	domestic	“anarchy”	with
dramatic	military	expansion.
James’s	first	action	on	hearing	of	the	Belgian	revolt	was	thus	to	broker	a
meeting	between	the	French	Foreign	Minister	Molé	and	the	Prussian
ambassador,	in	the	hope	of	averting	a	military	confrontation	between	the	two
powers.	He	also	urged	Nathan	to	oppose	any	British-sponsored	intervention	on
behalf	of	the	Dutch	King,	having	concluded	(along	with	Hannah	and	Lionel)	that
Belgian	claims	to	independence	were	practically	(and	perhaps	also	in	principle)
defensible.	At	the	same	time,	fearful	that	the	revolutionary	spirit	might	spread	to
Naples	and	Spain	(as	it	had	in	the	1820s),	James	relayed	a	veiled	warning	from
Louis	Philippe	to	Metternich	that	“he	was	opposing	revolutionaries	in	all
countries	as	far	as	his	position	as	a	constitutional	monarch	allowed	him	to	do,
but	.	.	.	that	he	was	compelled	in	his	position	to	show	a	certain	regard	for	Liberal
aspirations”;	the	King	of	Naples	should	therefore	make	“a	few	concessions	in	the
general	interest	of	the	country	and	in	accordance	with	the	progress	of
contemporary	ideas.”	A	few	days	later	Molé	told	James	that	France	might	be
prepared	to	go	to	war	if	France	were	“surrounded	by	a	large	number	of	[Prussian
and	Austrian]	troops,”	a	fear	of	“general	war”	echoed	by	a	number	of	foreign
diplomats	including	Lamb,	who	raised	the	possibility	of	British	intervention.
There	was	relief	when,	after	discussions	between	Talleyrand	and	Aberdeen,
the	whole	Belgian	question	was	referred	to	arbitration	by	representatives	of	the
great	powers	in	London.	However,	even	before	an	armistice	had	been	reached
between	the	Belgians	and	the	Dutch,	news	arrived	that	a	revolt	had	broken	out	in
Warsaw	against	Russian	rule.	In	fact,	it	may	well	have	been	this	development
which	did	most	to	
prevent
	war	over	Belgium,	as	prior	to	the	revolt	the	Tsar	had
been	preparing	to	send	troops	from	Poland	to	support	Holland.	The	fact	that	it
took	the	Russian	army	from	February	until	October	1831	to	crush	the	revolt	may
well	have	been	the	main	reason	there	was	no	general	war.	But	at	the	time	the

--- Page 325 ---
spread	of	revolution	eastwards	seemed	only	to	increase	the	chances	of
international	conflict.	The	protracted	arguments	about	the	extent	of	the	new
Belgian	state,	its	neutral	status	and	the	choice	of	its	king	served	only	to	prolong
uncertainty	throughout	the	first	half	of	1831,	with	the	Rothschilds	once	again
relaying	proposals	and	counter-proposals	from	Paris	to	London.
2
	Then	came	the
news	of	revolts	in	Italy:	not,	as	had	been	feared,	in	Naples,	but	in	the	duchies	of
Modena	and	Parma	(February	1831)	and	the	Papal	states	(March).
Between	March	1831	and	March	1832	there	was	a	series	of	“flashpoints”
when	war	involving	more	than	one	of	the	great	powers	seemed	to	come
perilously	close,	and	on	each	occasion	the	Rothschilds	worked	frenetically	to
diminish	the	tension.	The	first	crisis	raised	the	possibility	not	only	of	Austrian
intervention	in	the	Papal	states	but	also	of	French	moves	in	support	of	the
revolutionaries.	James	and	Salomon	were	much	involved	in	the	war	of	words
which	duly	broke	out	between	Paris	and	Vienna.	Ultimately,	Austria	did
intervene,	not	only	in	Modena	(which	the	French	tacitly	accepted)	but	also	in
Bologna	in	response	to	an	appeal	from	Gregory	XVI;	action	which,	after	much
prevarication,	elicited	a	more	or	less	direct	threat	of	war	from	the	French
government—relayed,	yet	again,	by	James.	This	was	probably	the	moment	at
which	a	general	war	came	closest;	it	was	undoubtedly	the	moment	when	both	the
British	and	French	bond	markets	touched	their	lowest	points.	Here	the	evidence
of	Rothschild	involvement	in	inter-government	communication	is	especially
strong,	with	James	taking	a	hand	in	the	drafting	of	a	crucial	French	note	to
Austria	calling	for	international	arbitration	(on	the	Belgian	model).
3
	
By	mid-
April,	James	was	sure	that	“the	crisis	in	Italy	[was]	over”	and	that	Anglo-French
unity	would	avoid	war	over	Belgium.
The	second	flashpoint	came	in	August	1831	over	Belgium.	After	months	of
uncertainty	about	the	election	of	Leopold	of	Saxe-Coburg	as	King	of	the
Belgians	(exacerbated	by	continued	fighting	in	Poland	and	news	of	Austrian
reprisals	against	Italian	liberals),	the	Dutch	invasion	of	Belgium	raised	the
possibility	of	a	general	war	once	more.	But	again	the	powers	drew	back.	Neither
Prussia	nor	Russia	supported	the	Dutch	move	and	the	British	government—after
some	tense	negotiations—sanctioned	the	French	decision	to	send	an
expeditionary	force	to	Belgium,	provided	it	withdrew	once	the	Dutch	had	been
driven	out.	It	was	only	during	October	that	the	danger	of	war	over	Belgium
gradually	receded;	though	even	the	signing	of	the	24	Articles	by	Belgium	on
November	15	was	far	from	the	breakthrough	it	initially	seemed,	as	Prussia,
Austria	and	Russia	took	until	May	1832	to	ratify	them,	and	the	Dutch	King

--- Page 326 ---
continued	to	withhold	his	signature.
The	third	war	scare	came	in	February	1832	as	a	result	of	fresh	unrest	in	the
Papal	states.	Once	again	Austrian	troops	were	called	in,	and	once	again	the
French	sought	to	take	a	hand.	Indeed,	this	time	a	French	force	was	actually	sent
to	occupy	the	port	of	Ancona—“a	serious	blunder”	in	James’s	view.	However,
this	was	far	less	serious	than	the	earlier	crises	(as	the	muted	reaction	of	the
markets	testified)	and	there	was	never	any	real	prospect	of	a	serious	breach
between	Paris	and	Vienna.	The	final	war	scare	of	the	post-revolutionary	period
came	in	the	autumn	of	1832,	when	France	pressed	once	again	for	military
intervention	to	force	the	Dutch	to	accept	the	24	Articles.	Even	when	Britain
agreed	to	act	jointly	against	Holland,	this	once	again	raised	the	spectre	of	a
Prussian	or	Russian	retaliation.	The	Convention	of	London	of	May	1832	was	a
stopgap,	as	it	left	the	Belgians	in	Luxembourg	(apart	from	its	fortress)	and
Limburg	(apart	from	Maastricht)	in	breach	of	the	24	Articles.	But	it	sufficed	to
preserve	the	peace	until	the	definitive	international	settlement	of	1839.
Throughout	these	periods	of	crisis,	the	Rothschild	letters	were	the	channel
through	which	the	views	of	kings,	ministers	and	diplomats	could	most	rapidly	be
exchanged.	But	they	also	allowed	the	Rothschilds	to	make	their	own	views
known	not	only	to	one	another	but	to	the	political	figures	to	whom	appropriately
translated	
copies	were	circulated.	A	central	leitmotif	of	the	brothers’	own
commentary	was	their	awareness	of	the	potentially	explosive	interaction
between	international	and	domestic	politics.	This	was	especially	pronounced	in
Paris,	where	fear	of	war	was	inseparable	from	fear	of	a	radicalisation	of	French
domestic	politics.	“The	Government	here	in	France	is	all	for	peace,”	warned
James	on	September	29,	1830,	“but	if	they	are	threatened	too	much,	then	the
king	says	that	he	would	no	longer	be	master	of	his	house	and	the	people	don’t
want	to	be	threatened	like	little	children.”	James	constantly	fretted	that,	if	the
other	powers	were	too	aggressive	in	countering	revolution	in	Belgium	or
elsewhere,	more	bellicose	politicians	would	come	to	power	in	France.	The
difficulty	was	that	even	those	ministers	to	whom	he	and	Lionel	gave	their
qualified	backing	were	sometimes	obliged	to	assuage	public	feeling	by	speaking
in	a	bellicose	manner	themselves;	hence	the	repeated	reassurances	from	James
that	such	utterances	were	only	for	domestic	consumption	and	should	not	be
taken	literally	abroad.	When	Sebastiani	was	appointed	Foreign	Minister	in
Laffitte’s	new	government	(November	1830),	James	immediately	rushed	to	see
him.	In	fact,	the	message	he	was	able	to	relay	to	London	and	Vienna	was	much
the	same	as	the	King’s	a	few	weeks	before:	“If	they	are	looking	for	an	excuse	to

--- Page 327 ---
wage	war	against	us,	then	we	are	fit	and	ready	for	them	but	we	will	make	every
possible	effort	to	prevent	it	from	happening.”	However,	James	concluded
optimistically	that	“there	is	every	likelihood	that	peace	will	be	maintained.”
Provided	Russia	did	not	think	of	intervening	on	behalf	of	Holland,	France	would
tell	the	Belgians	“that	they	shouldn’t	eliminate	the	House	of	Orange	from	their
calculations	and	that	they	will	not	be	able	to	count	on	our	support	if	they	behave
stupidly.”	The	difficulty	was	that,	as	James	admitted,	the	government	was
simultaneously	“asking	for	eighty	thousand	men	[while]	saying	‘we	are	all	for
peace’	.	.	.	[T]here	has	been	such	a	degree	of	fervour	and	activity	at	the	War
Department	over	here	that	it	would	seem	that	they	already	planned	to	make	war
in	fourteen	days’	time.	Our	newspapers	are	now	furiously	screaming	for	war	and
yesterday	the	whole	world	thought	that	war	was	about	to	break	out.”
Nevertheless,	he	still	maintained	that	Laffitte	was	“for	peace	and	he	is	only
asking	for	the	army	so	as	to	be	able	to	defend	peace.”	Talk	of	war	was	merely	to
“keep	the	public	mind	occupied.”	It	was	for	this	reason	that	James	urged	the
Banque	de	France	to	avert	Laffitte’s	bankruptcy	in	early	1831;	a	change	of
government	in	France,	he	was	convinced,	would	increase	the	danger	of	war.
Throughout	January	he	assured	his	brothers	of	the	government’s	peaceful	intent,
despite	the	increasingly	febrile	mood	in	Paris.
Yet	James	was	soon	forced	to	acknowledge	a	growing	appetite	for	war	over
Belgium	even	within	the	government,	an	appetite	which	was	only	whetted	when
the	news	reached	Paris	of	the	revolutions	in	Modena	and	Parma.	James	reacted
promptly.	According	to	his	own	account,	he	told	Louis	Philippe:
You	are	being	pushed	into	a	state	of	war,	even	though	you	have	no	interest	in	any
Belgian	[territory]	.	.	.	and	is	it	wise	for	the	French	to	take	on	such	a	proud
stance?	And	now	do	you	want	us	to	go	ahead	and	declare	war	on	the	foreigners?
Your	Majesty,	you	are	being	deceived.	Your	ministers	have	lost	the	confidence	of
the	public.	You	should	appoint	Périer	and	then	all	the	people,	including	the
wealthy	section	of	the	population,	will	support	him,	and	this	will	demonstrate
that	you	mean	business.
Laffitte,	he	told	his	brother,	was	bent	on	a	course	of	“complete	anarchy”:
This	morning	I	was	at	Laffitte’s	and	he	said	to	me,	“If	France	does	not	declare
war	on	Austria,	then,	in	a	matter	of	three	weeks,	the	king	will	no	longer	be	king
and	will	lose	his	head.”	I	told	him,	how	could	he	possibly	give	such	bad	advice
to	the	king,	to	which	he	replied	that	the	king	no	longer	consults	with	him.	In
short,	Laffitte	views	the	situation	as	already	lost	.	.	.	Tomorrow,	I	will	ask	the

--- Page 328 ---
king	and	perhaps	I	might	even	go	to	see	him	today.
It	would	appear	that	James’s	“talking	to	the	king	had	the	desired	effect”:	Laffitte
resigned	just	over	a	week	later.
James’s	support	for	Périer	was	thus	inseparable	from	the	idea	that	he	would
pursue	a	peaceful	policy;	by	the	same	token,	James	knew	that	he	would	be	able
to	survive	in	office	only	if	the	other	powers	made	concessions	too.	This	was	the
strategy	on	which	he	pinned	his	hopes	of	stabilisation	in	France.	In	a
characteristic	letter	intended	for	Metternich’s	eyes,	James	urged	Salomon	that
Austria	should	“support”	Périer	as	the	French	politician	least	likely	to	go	to	war:
Now,	my	dear	Salomon,	you	must	see	that	if	my	friend	Périer	takes	office	his
ministry	is	supported,	for	thirty-two	million	people	making	a	revolution	are	a
danger	to	all	countries.	“And,”	Périer	said	to	me,	“if	people	want	to	do
something	for	the	king,	they	should	try	to	give	France	a	piece	of	Belgium;	that
would	really	strengthen	the	king’s	position,	but	he	does	not	press	for	it.”	.	.	.
Now	I	tell	you	that	when	Périer	is	in	the	saddle	it	depends	on	the	[other]	powers
whether	they	have	war	or	not	.	.	.	I	tell	the	whole	world	that	the	powers	only
want	peace	.	.	.	[W]e	can’t	say	yet	what	will	happen,	but	I	am	confident	because
of	Périer,	as	if	we	have	war,	he	will	suffer	losses	on	his	properties	and	factories;
for	that	reason	I	believe	in	peace	.	.	.	When	we	are	certain	of	peace	abroad	we
shall	have	peace	at	home.
“Périer,”	he	assured	Nathan,	“is	a	stroke	of	luck	from	God,	as	he	will	maintain
peace,	or	at	least	I	hope	he	will.”	He	and	Lionel	were	even	led	to	believe	that	“if
Périer	comes	in,	it	is	to	be	one	of	his	conditions,	that	Austria	should	be	allowed
to	interfere	in	the	Italian	affairs	without	any	notice	being	taken	of	it.”	As	soon	as
Périer’s	appointment	was	confirmed,	James	repeated	his	appeal	for	Austrian
backing:
[W]e	have	a	ministry	which	wants	peace,	and	they	want	to	do	all	that	is	in	their
power	for	peace	to	be	maintained.	[But]	if	the	powers	want	peace	to	be
maintained,	then	they	will	have	to	strengthen	the	“Peace	ministry”	and	enable	it
to	demonstrate	[to	the	public]	that	the	powers	have	no	intention	of	attacking
France.	It	would	now	be	very	helpful	if	both	Russia	and	Austria	were	to	issue	a
declaration	that	they	will	remain	on	the	sidelines,	and	that	they	will	not	attack
France,	and	such	a	move	would	calm	the	populace,	for	over	here	they	firmly
believe	that	as	soon	as	Russia	has	resolved	its	problems	in	Poland,	they	will	then
turn	their	attention	to	France	.	.	.	I	went	to	the	king	and	pointed	out	to	him	that

--- Page 329 ---
my	whole	fortune	and	family	were	in	France	and,	consequently,	I	would	not
dream	of	misleading	him	and	lulling	him	into	believing	that	the	foreign	powers
wanted	peace	when,	in	truth,	they	were	planning	to	make	war	and,	anyway,	for
whose	benefit	would	such	a	ploy	be?	.	.	.	If	they	should	opt	for	Périer,	then	their
credit	will	rise	and	everything	will	improve	.	.	.	Well,	all	now	depends	on	the
foreign	powers	and	you	will	have	to	make	every	effort	towards	that	end,	for,
should	we	be	unsuccessful	in	maintaining	peace,	then	no	power	will	be	able	to
preserve	its	credit.
Five	days	later	he	“urgently	begged”	Salomon	to	continue	“pestering”
Metternich	“as	to	the	importance	of	strengthening	the	ministry	here	and	.	.	.
maintain[ing]	peace,	which	is	so	necessary	to	Europe,	the	Prince	alone	having
the	power	to	maintain	it.”	“The	whole	depends	upon	the	question	of	war	or
peace,”	wrote	Lionel	on	March	31.	“This	govt.	is	for	peace,	but	must	be
supported	by	the	other	powers	and	must	not	go	against	the	public	opinion,	or	it
would	give	too	much	strength	to	the	opposition,	which	would	then	bring	us	war
immediately.”
Yet	even	the	appointment	of	Périer	did	not	wholly	allay	James’s	fears	of
French	aggression,	especially	when	it	became	known	that	Austria	intended	to
intervene	in	the	Papal	states	regardless	of	the	change	of	ministry	in	Paris.	Events
in	Italy,	Belgium	and	Poland	periodically	threatened	to	stir	up	liberal	sentiment
in	Paris,	leaving	the	government	with	little	choice	but	to	fight	or	resign.	In	the
summer	of	1831	there	was	even	an	economic	argument	for	a	more	aggressive
policy,	as	Lionel	remarked:	“There	is	[
sic
]	in	France	too	many	young	men,
without	employment	and	money	and	to	get	rid	of	them	war	is	requisite,	party
spirit	is	also	strong,	and	without	a	war,	we	should	see	the	present	king	driven
away.”	Louis	Philippe	appeared	to	share	this	view,	and	James	watched	with
apprehension	as	Périer’s	position	seemed	to	crumble.	When	Périer	resigned	at
the	beginning	of	August,	James	predicted	“war	within	four	days”	if	an	“ultra-
liberal”	ministry	took	his	place.	Not	for	the	last	time,	Périer	survived	politically
by	taking	limited	military	action	against	Holland	with	the	tacit	approval	of	the
other	powers.
The	same	scenario	was	more	or	less	replayed	in	January	and	February	1832.
First	James	warned	that	Périer	would	resign	if	the	final	terms	of	the	Belgian
settlement	were	unsatisfactory	to	France.	Then	Périer	sent	a	military	force	to
Ancona	in	reply	to	the	return	of	Austrian	troops	to	the	Papal	states.	Even	after
Périer’s	death,	the	pattern	repeated	itself.	With	Soult	eager	to	despatch	the	army
against	the	Dutch	once	again	in	October	1832,	James	sought	to	secure	British

--- Page 330 ---
support	for	intervention	by	warning	Nathan:	“If	the	government	here,	God
forbid,	does	not	survive,	we	will	then	get	a	republican	administration,	and	then	I
expect	things	to	be	very	black	indeed.	That	is	why	everything	now	depends	on
the	Belgian	problem.	Should	England	decide	not	to	stand	by	France,	we	will
then	become	very	sick	here,	for	the	world	is	opposed	to	the	
doctrinaires
.”
There	was	a	very	similar	link	between	domestic	and	foreign	policy	in	Britain.
The	possibility,	though	remote,	never	entirely	disappeared	that	a	Tory
government	might	revert	to	Pittite	tradition	and	intervene	against	a	revolutionary
France.	On	the	other	hand,	when	the	Whigs	came	to	power	in	1830,	James	at
once	visualised	an	equally	alarming	scenario:	if	the	new	government	turned	out
to	be	“radicals”	then	“our	ministry	will	have	to	be	more	liberal	and	consequently,
the	Belgian	problem	will	be	that	much	more	difficult	to	resolve,	and	England
may	possibly	enter	into	a	
treaty	with	France	so	that	we	could	find	ourselves	at
war	with	the	rest	of	Europe.”	“All	now	depends	on	England,”	wrote	James	to
Nathan	in	January	1831,	during	the	search	for	a	suitable	Belgian	king.	“The
foreign	powers	would	never	declare	war	without	England	as	an	ally	.	.	.	You	see,
dear	Nathan,	how	important	it	is	for	you	to	be	constantly	vigilant,	because
whether	or	not	we	will	have	war	depends	on	whether	or	not	England	will	yield
on	the	question	of	Belgium.”	But	Nathan’s	Tory	friends	were	unconvinced	by
James’s	arguments,	least	of	all	when	he	threw	his	weight	behind	Périer.	As
Nathan	wrote	to	James	shortly	after	the	start	of	the	Reform	Bill	debates,
Herries	says	that	Peel	will	certainly	be	asked	to	join	the	ministry,	that	Wellington
will	become	Foreign	Minister	and	that,	unless	France	gives	way,	he	is	convinced
that	the	British	Army	will	go	to	Germany	.	.	.	It	would	be	well	for	you	to	tell	the
king	that	he	must	hold	himself	aloof,	and	not	trifle	with	England,	for	she	is	not	to
be	trifled	with	.	.	.	England	has	no	faith	in	your	ministers	who	want	nothing	but
revolutions,	in	which	old	Lafayette	and	I	know	not	who	else	assists.	Your	king
and	his	ministers	have	only	to	show	that	they	don’t	want	war:	they	must	not
change	their	tone	from	day	to	day.	Go	to	the	king	and	tell	him	that	Peel,
Palmerston	and	Wellington	are	coming	to	power.
This	shot	across	the	bows	does	much	to	illuminate	the	Rothschilds’
subsequent	transition	from	Toryism	to	Whiggery.	The	Whig	position,	as	relayed
by	Nathan	on	March	18,	was	far	more	congenial	to	James:	“If	France	does	not
remain	quiet,	but	takes	action	against	the	other	three	powers,	we	shall	join	the
three	powers,	
but	if	the	other	three	powers	take	action	against	France,	we	shall
join	France
.”	James’s	fear	that	the	Reform	Bill	would	be	defeated	and	the	Tories

--- Page 331 ---
returned	to	power	was	therefore	more	to	do	with	the	international	situation	than
with	his	support	for	the	bill	itself,	for	“a	Wellington	ministry	would	declare	war
on	France	without	hesitation.”	As	Lionel	observed	in	June	1831,	confusion	about
British	politics	tended	to	reduce	the	chances	of	a	Belgian	settlement,	because
“all	the	time	the	King	of	Holland	reckons	upon	a	change	in	the	ministry.”	James
made	the	same	point	four	months	later:	“The	passage	of	your	bill	is	being	closely
watched,	as	people	believe	that,	should	the	ministry	resign,	we	will	then	have
war.”	When	Russia	was	hesitating	about	ratifying	the	24	Articles	on	Holland,
Lionel	posed	the	question:	“What	can	Russia	do	alone[?],	everything	depends
upon	the	Reform	Bill,	if	that	passes	and	the	present	ministry	remain[s]	in,
England	&	France	are	quite	strong	enough	to	make	all	the	other	powers
tremble.”
This	illuminates	Nathan’s	decision	not	to	support	Wellington	when	he	was
unexpectedly	returned	to	office	in	May	1832.	It	was	not	just	that	Nathan	feared
internal	“commotions”	if	an	anti-Reform	government	stayed	in	office;	it	was	also
that	“the	foreign	ministers”—he	instanced	Talleyrand,	Weissenburg	and	Bülow
—were	“in	great	anxiety	lest	the	King	of	Holland	should	be	led	to	expect	such
support	from	the	new	government	as	would	lead	to	war.”	This	analysis	was
echoed	six	months	later,	when	news	of	the	Whig	election	victory	was	generally
welcomed	by	James,	Lionel	and	Anthony	as	“the	best	guarantee	of	peace	in
Europe”	and	the	stability	of	the	French	government.	In	the	dying	moments	of	the
Belgian	crisis,	when	the	possibility	of	Russian	intervention	surfaced	for	the	last
time,	Nathan	indicated	the	extent	and	nature	of	his	conversion	in	a	letter	to
James:
You	must	write	to	our	brother	Salomon,	to	tell	Metternich	not	to	let	himself	be
bamboozled	into	war	by	Russia,	for	Pozzo	[the	Russian	ambassador	in	Paris]	is
with	the	king	and	was	not	well	received,	and	he	and	Lieven	[the	Russian
ambassador	in	London]	are	intriguing	to	make	Austria	and	Prussia	declare	war.	I
have,	however,	been	informed	in	a	reliable	quarter	[presumably	Bülow]	that
Prussia	will	not	go	to	war,	and	that	they	are	making	a	great	mistake,	because
England	and	France	jointly	can	do	a	great	deal.	We	shall	keep	peace,	there	won’t
be	war	.	.	.	Write	and	tell	Salomon	that	Neumann	[the	Austrian	ambassador]	is
always	spending	a	great	deal	of	time	with	Pozzo	and	believes	our	government	to
be	weak.	The	man	is	seven-eighths	mistaken	and	now	Pozzo	has	not	been	well
received.	The	king	invited	him	to	Brighton	and	he	sat	six	places	from	the	king.
The	king	asked	him	how	long	he	would	stay	here.	He	replied,	“Six	weeks”;	and
now	we	know	that	Russia	wants	war,	and	Metternich	is	being	bamboozled	by

--- Page 332 ---
those	people.	Pozzo	and	those	folk	are	making	themselves	ridiculous	and	do	not
understand	England,	so	ask	our	good	brother	Salomon	to	tell	Prince	Metternich
not	to	let	himself	be	bamboozled	by	Russia.	Pozzo	is	here	simply	to	spy	and	
I
am	convinced	that	England	is	stronger	than	she	was	in	the	time	of	Wellington
.
Now,	my	dear	brother,	don’t	let	yourself	be	bamboozled	by	anyone.	If	England
and	France	hold	together,	it	will	be	difficult	to	touch	them.	Write	this	to	brother
Salomon.
In	Vienna	too,	despite	the	absence	of	a	revolutionary	threat,	there	was	a
domestic	political	struggle	with	important	international	implications:	between
proponents	and	opponents	of	foreign	intervention.	When	Salomon	returned	to
Vienna	in	early	October	1830,	it	was	in	order	“to	impress	upon	Prince
Metternich	how	important	it	now	is	to	maintain	peace,”	as	“the	issue	of	peace	or
war	depend[ed]	entirely	upon”	him.	This	was	a	slight	exaggeration,	as	Austrian
influence	over	the	Belgian	question	was	limited;	on	the	other	hand,	Russia	(and
possibly	also	Prussia)	would	be	more	likely	to	go	on	the	offensive	if	a	lead	came
from	Vienna—that	was	the	implication	of	the	Carlsbad	agreement	of	August
1830,	which	had	reaffirmed	the	counter-revolutionary	intent	of	the	Holy
Alliance.	Over	Italy,	Metternich	was	unequivocal.	He	told	Salomon	in	November
1830	that	he	was	prepared	“to	send	troops	.	.	.	to	keep	the	country	quiet,”	and	he
duly	did	so	in	both	Modena	and	Bologna,	as	we	have	seen.	Until	April	1831
Salomon	could	do	little	more	than	relay	Austrian	intentions	to	Paris	(in	itself	an
important	service	as	his	letters	to	James	arrived	as	much	as	three	days	before
Apponyi’s	official	instructions).	When	the	Tsar	appealed	for	help	in	Poland,
however,	Salomon	was	able	to	exert	real	influence,	forewarning	Metternich’s
rival	Count	Kolowrat,	who	intervened	“with	uncharacteristic	decisiveness”
against	such	assistance.	By	July	he	was	able	confidently	to	assure	his	brothers:
“Strictly	between	ourselves,	Austria	will	not	make	war,	does	not	want	war	and	is
doing	everything	possible	to	avoid	having	a	war	.	.	.	I	am	convinced	that	even	if
England	and	France	declared	war	on	.	.	.	
Russia
,	it	would	make	no	difference	to
Austria,	we	would	stay	.	.	.	neutral.”
Even	when	he	was	away	from	Vienna,	Salomon	kept	up	the	pressure	on
Metternich	to	avoid	war.	In	March	1832	he	wrote	long	and	effusive	letters	to
Metternich	from	Paris,	urging	him	not	to	overreact	to	Périer’s	decision	to	send
troops	to	Ancona.	In	November,	when	French	troops	were	descending	on
Antwerp,	
Kübeck	complained	that	“Prince	Metternich	is	a	veritable	pendulum,
swinging	back	and	forth	between	Tatichev	[the	Russian	ambassador	in	Vienna]
and	war,	and	Salomon	Rothschild	and	peace.”

--- Page 333 ---
	
Golden	Chains
Yet	it	is	hard	to	assess	how	much	the	brothers’	constant	lobbying	for	peaceful
policies	would	have	achieved	if	it	had	not	been	linked	to	their	financial	power.
As	suggested	above,	the	Rothschilds	had	two	potential	forms	of	leverage:	not
only	the	influence	they	derived	from	their	role	as	a	channel	of	informal
diplomatic	communication,	but	also	actual	financial	pressure—if	a	regime	bent
on	war	asked	them	to	lend	money,	they	could	refuse,	and	conversely	they	could
give	financial	support	to	one	that	was	peacefully	inclined.	Here	once	again	it	is
necessary	to	stress	the	limits	of	Rothschild	power,	especially	in	those	countries
(Britain	and	Prussia)	which	did	not	make	large	increases	in	military	expenditure
during	the	1830-33	crisis,	but	also	even	in	those	(France,	Russia	and	Austria)
where	spending	did	create	a	need	for	new	loans.
Rothschild	financial	leverage	was	most	limited	in	the	capitals	where	no
partner	was	resident.	In	Berlin,	the	brothers	were	caught	by	the	outbreak	of
revolution	in	1830	halfway	through	a	delicate	conversion	operation	designed	to
reduce	the	interest	on	their	earlier	sterling	loan	to	Prussia	from	5	to	4	per	cent.
From	the	outset	this	was	not	a	promising	transaction.	After	much	hard
bargaining	between	Salomon,	Anselm	and	the	Rothschilds’	“old	friend”
Christian	Rother,	it	was	agreed	in	February	1830	that	the	Rothschilds	would
issue	a	new	sterling	4	per	cent	loan	at	98,	the	proceeds	of	which	would	be	used
to	redeem	the	old	5	per	cent	bonds.	The	total	amount	of	the	loan	was	£3.8
million.	In	addition,	the	possibility	was	raised	of	a	similar	operation	for	the
bonds	issued	in	1822.
4
	However,	by	the	time	the	French	revolution	broke	out	in
July,	roughly	half	of	the	new	4	per	cent	bonds	were	still	unsold.	With	financial
markets	across	Europe	nose-diving,	there	was	no	possibility	of	disposing	of
these	other	than	at	a	steep	discount:	by	February	the	new	bonds	were	being
traded	at	79.5,	and	renewed	sales	would	doubtless	have	driven	the	price	lower.
Yet	the	brothers	were	contractually	bound	to	continue	making	cash	payments	to
Prussia	on	the	basis	of	the	underwriting	price	of	98.	Could	the	Rothschilds	have
stood	the	losses—estimated	by	Rother	at	more	than	£367,000—which	would
have	ensued	had	the	contract	been	honoured?	Probably;	but	it	is	easy	to	see	why,
having	lost	so	much	on	the	earlier	French	4	per	cent	loan,	they	were	so
determined	to	extricate	themselves	from	this	second	costly	débâcle.
Anselm	was	duly	sent	back	to	Berlin	for	a	protracted	and	exceptionally
difficult	bout	of	wrangling,	made	the	harder	by	the	machinations	of	the	various
officials	and	ministers	he	had	to	deal	with,	who	were	united	only	by	their

--- Page 334 ---
opposition	to	an	outright	cancellation	of	the	conversion	agreement.	Finally,	after
Carl	had	been	sent	to	join	him,	it	proved	possible	to	reach	a	compromise.	In
effect,	by	paying	an	indemnity	of	around	£140,000	(which	in	practice	dwindled
to	around	£50,000	after	various	deductions),	the	Rothschilds	secured	a
postponement	of	the	operation	until	European	financial	conditions	had	stabilised.
From	the	Rothschild	standpoint,	this	was	a	successful	exercise	in	damage-
limitation;	but	why	did	the	Prussian	authorities	agree	to	it?	Rother’s	argument	to
the	Prussian	King,	Frederick	William	III,	was	based	on	self-interest.	“If	Nathan
Mayer	
von	Rothschild’s	firm	were	to	be	compelled	strictly	to	observe	the	dates
laid	down	in	the	contract,”	he	pointed	out,	“in	spite	of	the	unfavourable
conditions	now	obtaining,	it	would	necessarily	endeavour	to	sell	the	new	4	per
cent	bonds	at	any	price	in	all	markets,	and	thereby	deal	a	severe	blow	to	our
public	credit.	Our	experience	has	taught	us	that	financial	transactions	in	which
the	von	Rothschild	firm	do	not	act	as	intermediaries,	but	as	opponents,	are	apt	to
fall	through	.	.	.”	Rothschild	weakness,	in	other	words,	could	have	negative
repercussions	for	Prussia	too,	despite	the	short-term	benefits	of	insisting	on	the
fulfilment	of	the	contract:
Through	the	recent	French	loan	of	January	1830	and	the	conversion	.	.	.	of	the
Prussian	debt	contracted	in	1818,	in	which	latter	transaction	they	associated	a
number	of	other	banking	firms	with	themselves,	involving	them	in	enormous
losses,	the	Rothschild	banks	have	entirely	lost	their	credit	in	transactions	of	this
kind	.	.	.	Although	their	wealth	.	.	.	is	still	very	considerable,	they	lack	the	cash
necessary	for	transactions	of	this	kind,	since	their	property,	which	consists	of
bonds	of	all	the	European	states,	cannot	at	present	be	turned	into	money	on	any
bourse.	The	Rothschild	banks	are	therefore	now	refusing	to	take	over	any	large
loans	direct,	seeking	as	in	the	case	of	Austria,	to	deal	with	them	on	a
commission	basis,	and	while	they	will	make	advances	on	account,	they	proceed
to	sell	the	newly	created	bonds	at	exceedingly	low	prices,	thus	damaging	the
States	concerned.
But	this	argument	would	not	have	cut	any	ice	if	Prussia	too	had	not	been	in
need	of	new	funds	to	pay	for	the	rising	costs	of	her	military	preparations.	For
although	Prussia	was,	in	James’s	words,	“of	all	Powers,	least	in	a	position	to
demand	war,	and	most	[keen]	to	avoid	it,”	she	could	not	ignore	the	threat	of	a
major	war	(whether	over	Belgium	or	Poland)	which	recurred	throughout	1831
and	1832.	Rother’s	letter	to	the	King	suggests	that	he	had	been	dissuaded,
probably	by	Amschel,	from	attempting	to	float	a	new	issue	of	bonds.	Instead,	the

--- Page 335 ---
Rothschilds	offered	to	make	substantial	short	term	cash-advances	of	up	to	5
million	thaler	against	treasury	bills	and	to	lend	their	support	to	a	lottery	loan.	It
was	this	offer	which	was	decisive	in	securing	the	postponement	of	the
conversion,	discussion	of	which	resumed	only	in	1833,	by	which	time	Prussian	4
per	cents	had	recovered	to	92	and	“the	present	political	situation	gives	no	more
cause	for	serious	concern.”
5
	In	other	words,	the	Rothschilds	still	had	some
financial	leverage	in	Berlin;	but	it	was	only	sufficient	to	secure	concessions	over
the	conversion.	There	is	no	evidence	of	any	attempt	during	this	period	to
influence	Prussian	foreign	policy:	all	the	Rothschilds	got	out	of	Frederick
William	was	some	porcelain	and	(for	Nat)	the	title	of	Privy	Commercial
Councillor,	by	way	of	grudging	thanks.
If	their	power	was	limited	in	Berlin,	the	Rothschilds’	influence	in	St
Petersburg	was	almost	non-existent.	True,	Russia	needed	money	more	than	any
of	the	great	powers	to	fight	her	war	against	the	Poles.	But	relations	between	the
Rothschilds	and	the	the	Russian	Finance	Minister	Kankrin	had	never	been	good,
so	even	when	the	Russians	directly	approached	their	agent	Gasser	for	a	loan	in
early	1831,	James	was	wary.	“The	Minister	must	be	terribly	short	of	money,”	he
reflected.	“That	means	he	will	not	be	able	to	fulfil	his	commitments,	and,	should
it	occur	to	the	good	man	not	to	pay	his	interest,	we	will	then	be	left	floundering.”
He	argued	for	taking	any	loan	only	on	commission	and	issuing	it	in	small
tranches,	opposing	Nathan’s	decision	to	
offer	an	immediate	advance	of
£400,000.	“In	the	event	of	war	breaking	out,”	he	warned,	“neither	France,	nor
Russia	nor	Prussia	will	meet	their	interest	payments,	and,	by	God,	they	will	all
use	the	excuse	of	war	to	justify	the	non-payment	of	the	interest	due.”	On	the
other	hand,	as	Anselm	argued,	if	the	danger	of	war	disappeared—especially	if
Russia	won	a	decisive	victory	in	Poland—the	government	would	have	no	need
of	their	services.	Only	as	long	as	the	crisis	lasted	would	the	government	need
money	badly	enough	to	“submit	to	any	conditions.”	In	fact,	James’s	real	anxiety
was	political:	he	had	no	objection	to	lending	the	Russian	government	as	much	as
£5	million	provided	the	fact	could	be	kept	secret	in	Paris,	where	sympathy	for
the	Poles	was	fervent.	“It	is	a	foregone	conclusion,”	he	pointed	out,
that	we	will	be	severely	criticised	in	the	newspapers,	otherwise,	I	have	no
objections	to	proceeding	on	this	basis	.	.	.	[S]hould	the	Poles	indeed	have
achieved	a	victory,	this	will	ease	matters	considerably,	as	we	must	make	every
effort	to	co-operate	with	the	liberal[s].	Would	it	perhaps	be	possible	to	claim	that
the	minister	will	be	arranging	the	loan	in	conjunction	with	Gasser	and	in	his

--- Page 336 ---
name?	.	.	.	Well,	I	suggest	we	consider	.	.	.	very	carefully	how	we	can	possibly
prevent	our	involvement	in	this	matter	becoming	public	knowledge.
He	repeated	his	misgivings	a	week	later:	“I	can	assure	you	that	if	we	support
Russia	against	Poland	I	am	not	at	all	certain	that	I	won’t	be	clubbed	to	death,
because	public	opinion	here	is	passionately	behind	Poland.”	Nevertheless,	he
was	obviously	prepared	to	risk	public	hostility	if	the	terms	of	the	loan	were
sufficiently	attractive.	It	is	noteworthy	that	these	discussions	took	place	on	the
eve	of	the	Poles’	decisive	defeat	at	Ostrolenka.	Indeed,	Nathan	managed	to	sell
some	guns	to	the	Russian	government	just	a	few	days	after	the	battle.	James	was
“extremely	happy”	at	the	profit	thereby	realised;	once	again,	his	only	concern
was	to	avoid	bad	publicity:
I	beg	you,	in	God’s	name,	not	to	provide	your	name	unless	it	is	absolutely
essential,	that	is,	to	register	that	“Rothschild”	has	sold	“guns”	and	please	keep
this	information	under	wraps,	as	otherwise	I	am	liable	to	be	shot,	for	it	will	be
said	that	I	am	selling	guns	to	facilitate	the	shooting	of	the	Poles.	Yesterday	a
friend	of	mine	who	is	a	newspaper	correspondent	came	to	see	me	and	showed
me	a	newspaper	article	which	claimed	that	we	were	providing	funds	to
Luxembourg	so	that	they	could	suppress	the	Belgians.	He	had	not	written	the
article	but	believe	me,	dear	Nathan,	now	that	the	general	feeling	amongst	the
public	has	veered	to	liberalism	one	must	be	that	much	more	careful.	That	is	why
you	should	make	every	effort	to	prevent	the	information	reaching	the
newspapers.
The	idea	of	a	loan	(now	for	£1	million)	resurfaced	again	at	the	end	of	1832.
Again,	James	felt	nervous,	this	time	imagining	the	English	press	“tearing	us
apart,	claiming	that	we	are	providing	the	Russian	Tsar	with	loans	which	will
enable	him	to	wage	war.”	But	once	again	he	was	prepared	to	run	this	risk.	After
all,	“it	is	not	as	if	one	can	conquer	the	world	with	£1	million.”	And	to	be	on	the
safe	side	Lionel	argued	that	“in	case	of	war	the	.	.	.	clause	ought	to	exist	.	.	.	that
we	are	not	bound	to	continue	our	payments”	(a	device	used	for	other	Rothschild
loans	in	this	and	later	periods,	as	we	shall	see).	However,	as	James	predicted,
Kankrin	once	again	“bamboozled”	Nathan	by	using	the	Rothschild	offer	merely
to	secure	improved	terms	from	Hope,	the	Russian	government’s	traditional
banker.	The	idea	that	the	Rothschilds	had	been	competing	to	make	this	loan
would	have	come	as	a	surprise	to	those	French	émigrés—supporters	of	Charles
X,	who	banked	on	a	Russian-led	counter-revolution—who	were	convinced	that
the	Rothschilds	had	“fallen	to	a	prodigious	extent	under	revolutionary	influence”

--- Page 337 ---
and	now	served	“the	revolutionary	movement	.	.	.	under	the	leadership	of	the
London	[Rothschild],	and	of	Talleyrand.”	After	all,	this	was	the	last	opportunity
when	a	Russian	intervention	might	have	averted	the	imposition	of	the	24	Articles
on	Holland.	It	is	possible	that	Nathan	and	James	genuinely	believed	that	if	they
handled	the	loan	instead	of	Hope—especially	as	they	envisaged	lending	a	much
smaller	sum	than	the	Dutch	bank—they	would	be	able	to	exert	pressure	on
Russia	not	to	intervene.	Alternatively,	Nathan’s	warning	after	the	Hope	coup	that
Russia	was	bent	on	war	was	disingenuous.	It	is	tempting	to	conclude	that	he	was
prepared	to	shut	his	eyes	to	the	possibility	of	Russian	aggression	if	he	could	only
win	back	his	influence	at	St	Petersburg.
James	came	to	feel	that	his	brother	was	trying	too	hard	to	secure	Russian
business.	“As	far	as	I	am	concerned,	Russia	can	go	to	the	Devil,	and	we	can
quite	happily	do	without	them,”	he	wrote	when	yet	another	loan	was	bruited	in
1834.	“Under	no	circumstances	should	you	personally	write	to	Petersburg	for
you	have	been	refused	enough	times.	Don’t	give	them	another	opportunity	to
embarrass	you.”	“Do	you	think	that	we	will	ever	be	on	friendly	terms	with
Russia?”	he	asked	two	years	later.	He	evidently	thought	not.	It	is	hard	to	find	a
better	illustration	of	the	limits	of	Rothschild	financial	power.
Even	where	a	partner	was	resident	there	were	difficulties.	In	London,	the
disintegration	of	Tory	power	which	began	with	Catholic	emancipation	and	was
completed	by	the	failure	of	Peel’s	1834-5	ministry	unquestionably	led	to	a
decline	of	Rothschild	influence	over	financial	policy.	Althorp,	Grey’s
Chancellor,	was	decidedly	unimpressed	by	Nathan	when	the	latter	sought	to
ingratiate	himself	in	December	1830.	“The	result	of	a	good	long	conversation,”
noted	Althorp,	“was	that	I	was	satisfied	he	must	think	me	the	greatest	fool	that
ever	existed	or	he	never	would	have	supposed	that	he	could	so	grossly	deceive
me	as	he	appeared	to	wish	to	do.”	And	whatever	sympathy	Nathan	may	have
come	to	feel	towards	Grey’s	government,	he	was	never	given	much	inside
political	information;	indeed	Grey’s	resignation	in	1834	took	him	wholly	by
surprise.	However,	the	decline	of	Nathan’s	political	influence	had	less	to	do	with
the	door	being	“shut	in	his	face”	by	the	Whigs	than	with	the	fact	that	British
financial	policy	largely	rendered	him	superfluous	during	the	1830s.	With	only
one	exception—the	£15	million	loan	to	compensate	the	slave	owners	in	1835—
there	were	no	major	borrowings	by	British	governments	in	this	period.
Expenditure	was	tending	to	fall	and	revenue,	despite	continuing	piecemeal
reductions	in	indirect	tax,	was	stable.	For	this	reason,	Nathan’s	leverage	in
London	was	much	less	than	James’s	in	Paris.	Although	Nathan	was	ready	and

--- Page 338 ---
willing	to	act	as	a	channel	for	inter-governmental	messages,	he	was	not	really	in
a	position	to	influence	their	content.	It	was	a	matter	of	luck	rather	than
Rothschild	design	that	the	Whig	government	was	keen	to	avert	war	over
Belgium.
By	contrast,	there	is	evidence	that	James	succeeded	in	using	financial	leverage
to	discourage	an	aggressive	policy	in	France,	though	the	strength	of	his	position
should	not	be	exaggerated.	The	revolution	had	left	the	Paris	house	in	an
extremely	vulnerable	state,	saddled	with	large	amounts	of	depreciating	3	and	5
per	cent	rentes	and	with	payments	totalling	10	million	francs	still	outstanding	to
the	Treasury	for	the	4	per	cent	Polignac	loan.	On	the	other	hand,	the	new	French
government	was	forced	to	begin	borrowing	almost	immediately,	issuing
substantial	quantities	of	treasury	bills.	James’s	immediate	reaction	to	this	was
characteristic:	there	were,	he	told	Nathan	as	early	as	December	1830,	“big	deals
to	be	made	here,”	and	it	was	his	intention	not	to	be	excluded	from	them.	Despite
his	heavy	criticism	of	Laffitte’s	foreign	policy,	at	no	point	did	he	withdraw	from
the	discussions	about	financing	the	government’s	deficit.	His	reasons	were
straightforward.	As	he	explained	to	his	brothers	in	March	1831,	“doing	business
with	the	current	Government	will,	I	think,	bring	in	its	wake	a	rise	in	the	rentes.”
In	any	case,	“the	businessmen	are	all	in	agreement	about	the	loan	here,	and	I
shall	go	with	them,	because	I	don’t	want	to	be	out	of	it.”
The	problem	was	that	some	of	the	money	being	raised	was	obviously	wanted
for	military	purposes	(this	was	confirmed	by	“a	colonel	in	the	War	Ministry	who
is	on	my	payroll”).	Indeed,	James	and	Nathan	themselves	sold	around	28,000
British	guns	and	offered	to	sell	other	military	supplies	to	the	French	government
at	around	this	time—a	remarkable	kind	of	“hedging,”	given	their	vocal	pacifism.
There	was	no	real	guarantee	that	French	armaments	were	for	purely	defensive
purposes,	except	that	the	higher	costs	of	war	would	be	unfinanceable.	James
pinned	much	hope	on	this	idea	that	“an	outbreak	of	war	would	be	very
dangerous	[to	the	French	government],”	adding:	“I	assure	you	that	they	will	have
to	raise	loan	after	loan	to	be	able	to	pay	the	interest.”	When	Sebastiani	talked	of
France’s	refusing	to	be	“bossed	about”	in	February	1831,	James	was	sceptical:
“Basically	they	have	no	funds	in	reserve.	With	what	will	they	wage	war?
Consequently,	I	am	convinced	we	will	have	no	war,	no	matter	what	others	might
say.”
This	helps	explain	James’s	support	for	Périer,	for	the	latter	seemed	to
recognise	the	fiscal	constraint	on	French	policy:
Périer	told	me,	“.	.	.	If	we	choose	war,	we	will	be	unable	to	meet	our	debts,	and	I

--- Page 339 ---
am	therefore	not	prepared	to	join	the	ministry	only	to	see	the	Treasury	slide	into
bankruptcy	the	following	day	.	.	.”	In	short,	he	will	not	join	without	first	being
reassured	that	we	can	maintain	peace	.	.	.	Should	Périer	not	join	the	government,
then	I	fear	that	the	Treasury	here	faces	bankruptcy	for	they	will	have	to	issue	a
loan	at	5	per	cent.
It	therefore	made	sense	to	give	Périer	financial	as	well	as	moral	support,	not
least	because	the	combination	of	peace	and	a	properly	funded	loan	would	lead	to
a	rise	in	the	price	of	rentes:
I	will	speak	to	Périer	and	may	sell	a	loan	on	commission.	The	Treasury	is	in
need	of	funds	.	.	.	We	must	assist	the	government	by	providing	funds,	and	ensure
that	the	bankers	participate,	as	it	is	in	my	interest	to	provide	these	people	with
funds,	so	that	.	.	.	I	can	make	my	exit	from	all	this	.	.	.	I	think	that	Périer	will
boost	the	value	of	your	stocks	.	.	.	I	want	to	tell	you	that	we	can	perhaps	do
business	with	Périer.
But	the	fact	remained	that	James	had	no	way	of	preventing	the	money	thus
raised	from	being	used	to	fight	a	war.	He	simply	lacked	the	bargaining	power	to
insist	on	the	clause	suggested	by	Nathan	“that	in	case	of	war	those	payments	that
have	not	
been	made	.	.	.	are	not	to	be	enforced.”	The	most	he	could	do	was	to
hope	that	Périer	would	not	be	“too	belligerent	[over	Austrian	intervention	in
Bologna],	as	we	must	of	course	remember	that	the	people	wish	to	raise	a	loan.”
There	is	some	circumstantial	evidence	that	such	financial	considerations	inclined
the	French	government	to	avoid	war	with	Austria	over	the	Papal	states.	Market
expectations	that	the	loan	would	stabilise	the	fiscal	position	ran	counter	to
pessimism	about	the	dangers	of	war.	Indeed,	the	fact	that	the	French	Finance
Minister	Louis	exploited	a	slight	rally	in	April	to	demand	better	terms	for	the
loan	was	regarded	by	James	as	a	sign	of	the	government’s	peaceful	intentions.
That	the	ambassadors	of	potentially	hostile	powers	like	Werther	(Prussia)	and
Pozzo	(Russia)	were	personally	interested	in	taking	a	share	of	the	loan	also
suggested	to	Lionel	that	peace	would	be	preserved.	Nevertheless,	James’s
overwhelming	sense	in	the	spring	of	1831	was	one	of	impotence.	“I	am	master
of	nothing,”	he	confessed	to	Nathan.	“Times	are	no	longer	what	they	were.
Previously,	we	would	have	taken	on	[such]	a	loan	.	.	.	by	ourselves.”
In	fact,	the	1831	loan	was	not	large	enough	to	solve	the	government’s
financial	problems,	as	James	realised	from	the	outset.	Moreover,	the	Treasury’s
parallel	attempt	to	raise	a	“National	Loan”	by	public	subscription	was	a	failure:
only	25	million	of	a	possible	80	million	francs	were	sold,	and	the	rest	then	had	to

--- Page 340 ---
be	sold	to	the	consortium	of	banks.	A	more	radical	government	than	Périer’s
might	of	course	have	followed	the	example	of	the	1790s,	pursuing	an	aggressive
foreign	policy	by	printing	money.	But,	as	long	as	Périer	was	in	office,	financial
realism	prevailed.	In	August,	as	the	Belgian	crisis	abated,	James	was	encouraged
to	hear	talk	of	a	new	loan	of	100	million	francs	to	consolidate	the	floating	debt.
Two	months	later	he	and	Lionel	were	reassured	to	hear	Périer	say	that	he	“would
do	what	Villèle	could	not,	he	would	make	5	per	cents	par	and	then	reduce
them”—an	unambiguous	signal	of	impending	retrenchment.	The	decision	to
maintain	the	sinking	fund	also	pleased	them.	The	year	1832	saw	James
reasserting	himself	on	the	French	financial	market.	In	May	a	Rothschild-led
consortium	successfully	bid	to	underwrite	a	40	million	franc	loan	by	the	city	of
Paris.	This	paved	the	way	for	another	government	loan	of	150	million	francs,
again	handled	by	a	consortium.	Significantly,	James	insisted	on	delaying	this
until	after	the	Dutch	had	relinquished	their	claims	on	Belgium.	By	this	time	the
idea	that	France	might	herself	take	unilateral	military	action	without	the	express
consent	of	England	was	being	discounted.	When	James	was	approached	to
consider	yet	another	loan	in	early	1833,	fears	of	French	aggression	had	faded,	as
evinced	when	3	per	cent	rentes	briefly	touched	80	in	February.	In	fact,	the
government	chose	to	reduce	the	size	of	the	army	and	hence	the	defence	budget	in
preference	to	borrowing	more,	and	there	was	soon	talk	of	another	conversion
project	to	reduce	the	cost	of	servicing	the	existing	debt.	The	same	issue	was	still
being	debated	four	years	later.
In	short,	the	French	government	
was
	financially	constrained,	but	it	was	a
constraint	imposed	not	by	the	Rothschilds	alone	but	by	all	the	major	banks	in
Paris.	The	critical	point	is	that	there	was	no	Rothschild	monopoly	over	French
public	finance	in	the	1830s,	as	the	loans	of	the	period	were	undertaken	by	groups
of	banks,	while	sales	of	treasury	bills	were	even	more	widely	distributed.	Many
of	the	visits	paid	by	James	to	Périer	and	other	ministers	were	therefore	less	about
exerting	financial	leverage	than	about	obtaining	financially	sensitive	news.
Typically,	James	spoke	in	January	1832	of	“going	with	Salomon	to	see	Périer	to
hear	whether	
he	has	any	news,	and	to	formulate	my	future	actions	on	the	basis	of
any	information	he	might	provide	me	with,	as	we	are	currently	holding	a	large
parcel	of	rentes	and	we	must	therefore	deal	with	great	caution.”
It	might	therefore	be	suggested	that,	if	Prussia,	Russia	and	France	
had
resolved	to	go	to	war	in	the	1830s	over	Belgium	or	Poland,	the	Rothschilds
would	have	been	powerless	to	avert	it.	Yet	this	is	to	overlook	the	leading	role
played	in	Central	and	Eastern	Europe	at	this	time	by	Metternich’s	Austria:

--- Page 341 ---
without	Austrian	participation	and,	indeed,	direction,	a	conservative	crusade
against	the	spread	of	revolution	is	hard	to	imagine.	And	this	brings	us	to	the	role
played	by	Salomon	in	Vienna,	which	has	sometimes	been	portrayed	as	decisive
in	averting	war	after	July	1830.
As	early	as	November	1830	Salomon	intimated	to	Gentz	that,	after	the	heavy
losses	suffered	by	himself	and	his	brothers,	financing	a	war	was	out	of	the
question.	In	the	same	way,	when	Metternich	sent	Austrian	troops	into	Bologna,
James	backed	up	Périer’s	threat	to	intervene	with	an	explicitly	financial
argument,	evidently	intended	for	official	consumption.	In	the	event	of	war,	he
asked,	“how	would	Austria	be	able	to	pay	the	interest	[on	her	debt]?	.	.	.	Better
not	to	risk	one’s	entire	capital.”	Yet,	like	James,	Salomon	did	not	occupy	a
monopolistic	position.	In	the	spring	of	1830,	when	the	Austrian	government	had
issued	a	loan	of	30	million	gulden	of	4	per	cent	metalliques,	he	had	merely	been
one	of	a	consortium	of	four	issuing	houses,	along	with	Arnstein	&	Eskeles,	Sina
and	Geymüller;	and	he	had	failed	to	wrest	control	of	a	planned	conversion
operation	for	the	old	5	per	cent	bonds	from	the	Frankfurt	house	of	Bethmann.	In
the	wake	of	the	revolution,	he	was	as	little	able	as	his	brother	to	contemplate	the
idea	of	a	government	loan	being	handled	by	his	rivals.	When	Metternich
requested	an	issue	of	36	million	gulden	of	5	per	cent	metalliques	to	finance
intervention	in	Italy	in	March	1831,	Salomon	took	a	share	along	with	the	other
three	Vienna	houses.	Admittedly,	a	clause	was	inserted	stating	that	the	loan
would	have	to	be	repaid	within	three	months	in	the	event	of	a	war.	But	Salomon
did	nothing	to	oppose	Metternich’s	covert	borrowing	of	the	20	million	francs
which	had	been	deposited	with	the	Frankfurt	house	since	the	1815	Treaty	of
Paris	in	the	name	of	the	German	Confederation.
6
	Nor	did	he	achieve	much	by	a
thinly	veiled	threat	to	withdraw	financial	support	if	Metternich	did	not	ratify	the
24	Articles	relating	to	Belgium	in	early	1832:
Your	Highness	is	aware	that	we	have	subscribed	a	quarter	of	the	last	loan	of	50
million	and	have	also	purchased	securities	on	the	Bourse	in	order	to	maintain	the
price	of	metalliques,	that	we	are	carrying	through	other	important	financial
operations,	and	that	we	are	also	negotiating	new	ones.	As	these	are	closely
affected	by	the	course	of	political	events,	and	as	I	would	like	to	see	my	brother
happy	and	free	from	worry,	I	would	humbly	beg	Your	Highness	to	be	pleased	to
let	my	manager	.	.	.	know	of	your	opinion	as	to	the	present	situation	and	whether
the	Austrian	Government	will	recognise	Belgium	and	allow	the	statement	to	be
ratified.

--- Page 342 ---
Metternich	hastened	to	reassure	him	“that,	as	the	fundamental	attitude	and	will
of	the	Russian	Tsar	were	very	well	known	to	him,	he	vouched	for	the	fact	that
these,	without	a	single	exception,	were	as	peaceful	as	those	of	the	Austrian
Emperor.”	But	this	was	flannel;	Austria	did	not	ratify	the	articles	for	another
three	months.
Salomon’s	most	explicit	use	of	the	financial	lever	came	in	June	1832,	while	he
was	in	Paris.	“I	do	not,”	he	wrote	with	uncharacteristic	bluntness	in	a	letter	he
ordered	to	be	passed	on	to	Metternich	and	Kolowrat,	“regard	[it]	with
indifference	.	.	.	that	Austria	should	issue	a	further	metalliques	loan	during	the
year	1832,	which	God	forbid.”
You	know	that,	taking	the	sum	of	our	holdings	of	metalliques	at
Frankfurt,	Paris,	London	and	Vienna—that	is,	the	holdings	of	the	four
banks	which	really	constitute	one	bank—the	total	amounts	to	several
millions.	Now,	you	cannot	ride	two	horses	at	once;	if	our	firm	were
forced	to	sell	.	.	.	what	price	could	we	expect	to	get?	.	.	.	We	should	be
forced	to	realise	our	metalliques,	whether	we	wished	to	or	not.	What
would	the	capitalists	and	the	commercial	world	say	to	the	issue	of	two
metalliques	loans	in	one	year,	when	the	payments	in	respect	of	the	first
loan	are	not	due	to	be	completed	until	December?	Such	action	might
produce	a	sharp	fall	in	metalliques.	The	government	would	not	be	able	to
get	further	loans	at	a	low	rate	of	interest,	a	blow	would	be	dealt	to	the
credit	of	Austria’s	finances	and	the	government	would	fail	to	achieve	its
object	.	.	.	Moreover,	what	would	the	public	say	to	a	new	loan?	“There
will	be	war—there	must	be	a	war,	as	Austria	is	issuing	another	loan.”
Even	if	we	were	not	forced	to	sell,	as	we	should	be,	prices	would	fall
sharply	and	Austria’s	credit	would	be	severely	damaged	.	.	.	[This	is]	my
conviction	as	to	what	would	happen	if	there	were	to	be	even	a	whisper	of
a	suggestion	that	another	loan	should	be	issued	this	year.
At	first	sight,	this	does	indeed	seem	like	the	exertion	of	financial	pressure	with
a	view	to	limiting	Metternich’s	room	for	aggressive	manoeuvre.	But	it	is
important	to	realise	that	it	came	at	a	time	of	relatively	low	international	tension:
the	Austrians	had	by	now	ratified	the	24	Articles	and	the	dispute	over	Ancona
had	been	resolved.	On	closer	inspection,	it	looks	more	like	a	primarily	financial
argument	to	avoid	a	slump	in	the	price	of	Austrian	bonds	which	would	have
been	detrimental	to	the	Vienna	house’s	balance	sheet.	Salomon	was	not	opposing
a	loan	altogether:	for	purely	technical	reasons,	he	was	arguing	that	“if	it	is

--- Page 343 ---
essential	to	get	money,	it	is	much	better	to	issue	Treasury	bills,	and	get	in	twelve
millions	of	silver	for	the	bank	.	.	.	a	procedure	which	costs	the	government
hardly	anything	and	provides	it	with	money	for	six	to	eight	months.”	A	year	later
he	and	the	three	other	Vienna	houses	were	perfectly	happy	to	participate	in
another	issue	of	metalliques	worth	40	million	florins,	and	in	1834	to	a	lottery
loan	of	25	million	gulden.	If	these	were	chains	of	peace,	they	did	not	bind
tightly.
	
Underwriting	Peace
In	fact,	it	was	not	so	much	by	denying	governments	money	as	by	making	it
available	to	them	that	the	Rothschilds	were	able	to	give	weight	to	their
diplomatic	efforts.	The	classic	illustration	of	this	point	is	the	way	they	responded
to	requests	for	credit	from	the	areas	where	revolutions	had	broken	out.
The	Rothschilds	had	been	doing	business	with	the	Belgian-based	Société
Générale	since	1827.	Within	days	of	the	revolution	in	Brussels,	James	had	re-
established	contact	with	it	and	over	a	period	of	months	advanced	over	a	million
francs	to	help	it	weather	the	storm	of	revolution.	At	the	same	time,	he	and
Nathan	discussed	a	possible	loan	to	Holland,	presumably	as	a	carrot	to	persuade
the	Dutch	King	to	accept	the	secession	of	Belgium;	Salomon	saw	such	a	loan	as
a	way	of	helping	“to	control	our	war	mongers.”	But	Nathan	could	also	wield	a
stick:	when	the	Dutch	invaded	Belgium	in	August	1831	he	at	once	offered	to	sell
guns	to	the	government	in	Brussels.	Only	when	the	Dutch	had	withdrawn	and
appeared	to	be	about	to	accept	the	loss	of	Belgium,	did	he	and	James	revive	the
possibility	of	a	6	per	cent	loan	to	the	Dutch	King,	“for	if	he	has	the	money,	he
will	not	consider	any	warlike	actions”—and	needless	to	say,	“a	lot	of	money
could	be	earned	from	the	Dutch	government.”
In	the	case	of	Belgium,	although	James	was	convinced	there	was	“a	fortune	to
be	made	there,”	the	brothers	waited	until	the	supposedly	definitive	24	Articles
had	been	signed	by	Leopold	before	making	their	move.	At	the	end	of	1831,	in
partnership	with	the	Belgian	banker	Osy,	they	floated	a	loan	worth	some	£2.75
million—five	times	as	much	as	the	previous	year’s	loan	to	Holland.	This	might
be	thought	something	of	a	gamble,	considering	that	a	diplomatic	resolution	of
their	differences	was	anything	but	sure.	Interestingly,	a	contemporary	British
cartoon	entitled	
The	Protocol-Society	in	an	Uproar
	shows	the	representatives	of
the	powers	gathered	in	Downing	Street,	with	Nathan	stage	left	complaining:
“Your	Potecols	are	no	use;	help	mi	Cot,	Shentlemen,	if	you	don’t	make	everyting
out	for	me,	I	will	lend	you	no	more	monish—vat	am	I	to	do	vit	your	Ponds”	(see

--- Page 344 ---
illustration	9.i).	An	etching	from	the	same	period	by	“J.W.W.”	depicts	Nathan
plucking	the	Belgian	goose,	and	muttering:	“cot	tam	you	and	your	Pelgian
Ponds!	I	could	not	find	a	shingle	flat	
to	puy	them;	upon	my	shoul,	they	are	not
worth	as	much	as	Spanish	ponds”	(see	illustration	9.ii).
9.i:	S.W.	Fores,
	
The	Protocol-Society	in	an	Uproar,	or	the	Conferees
Confounded
.
	
A	Sketch	in	Downing	Street
	
(1831).

--- Page 345 ---
9.ii:	“J.W.W.,”
	
PLUCKING	THE	GOOSE	OR	BELGIUM	SUPPORTED	BY
HER	FRIENDS	AND	ALLIES
	
(1831).
Anselm	for	one	feared	that	it	would	“prove	a	bad	concern,	as	I	do	not	think
that	Belgium	will	be	able	to	pay	the	Dividend	for	many	years.”	On	the	other
hand,	he	went	on,	“There	is	some	money	to	be	made	.	.	.	We	must	take	things	as
they	are	and	profit	of	the	folly	of	the	world.”	Provided	the	Dutch	did	not	resume
hostilities	during	the	period	when	the	loan	was	being	sold	to	investors,	the
Rothschilds	as	underwriters	could	only	profit;	and	if	they	did	invade	again	there
was	“a	clause	which	provides	that,	in	the	event	of	war,	we	need	not	take
anything	further.”	As	James	reported,	brokers	and	bankers	were	“snapping	[the
loan]	up	like	sugar	pumpernickel”	even	before	it	had	been	issued,	though	by	the
time	it	was	issued	news	of	unrest	in	Rome	and	delays	over	the	ratification	of	the
Belgian	agreement	weakened	demand,	forcing	James	to	support	the	market	with
repurchases.
By	the	spring	of	1832,	with	Holland	diplomatically	isolated,	the	brothers	were
ready	for	more.	The	diplomatic	settlement	had	created	a	Belgian	debt	to	Holland
by	allocating	a	portion	of	the	pre-1830	combined	Dutch	debt	to	the	new
government	in	Brussels,	and	this	raised	an	obvious	possibility.	“There	is	money
to	be	made	there,”	wrote	James.	“If	you	promise	Talleyrand	a	little	something,
my	dear	Nathan,	he	will	then	arrange	that	you	be	appointed	the	agent	for	the

--- Page 346 ---
handling	of	the	debt,	just	as	Baring	was	between	France	and	the	Powers	[in
1815].”	There	was	“money	to	be	made	if	we	place	ourselves	between	Belgium
and	Holland”—provided	of	course	
there	was	no	further	war	between	the	two.	In
August	1832	proposals	were	drawn	up	for	a	second	loan	of	£1.9	million,	a	third
of	which	was	to	be	issued	by	the	Rothschilds	in	Paris—despite	a	warning	from
the	French	government	that	“it	would	be	madness	for	us	to	give	the	Belgians
money	just	at	this	moment	&	to	give	them	every	facility	of	making	war.”	The
dandy	and	diarist	Thomas	Raikes	took	a	different	view.	“The	Belgian	question	is
just	as	near	settlement	as	it	was	twelve	months	ago,”	he	wrote	on	September	12:
The	mandates	of	the	Conference	are	of	no	avail.	Holland	will	not	abate	a	particle
of	its	demands.	Leopold	wishes	to	yield,	but	the	Belgians	will	not	hear	of	it.	His
treasury	is	empty,	and	Rothschild	will	not	contract	for	the	loan	without	binding
the	Belgians	not	to	go	to	war.	But	there	will	be	more	temporising,	as	the	stock-
jobbing	interest	must	prevail.	All	the	nations	of	Europe	want	money,	and	dread	a
fall	in	the	funds	more	than	any	other	calamity.
However,	when	French	troops	were	marching	into	Belgium	to	impose	terms
on	the	Dutch	the	following	November,	it	was	James’s	turn	to	think	twice	when
the	Belgian	minister	approached	him	for	a	short-term	loan	of	10	million	francs.
“One	must	help	these	people,”	he	wrote	somewhat	wearily,	“for,	otherwise,	they
will	simply	not	know	what	to	do,	and	will	only	resort	to	stupid	actions	.	.	.	In	a
word,	these	people	.	.	.	have	no	money	and	.	.	.	don’t	have	the	intelligence	to
make	any	money.”	Belgium,	he	grumbled,	was	“a	lousy	country.”	Only	when	it
was	apparent—and	the	assurances	came	from	both	Louis	Philippe	and
Metternich—that	the	Dutch	were	diplomatically	isolated	and	would	have	to
acquiesce	in	the	continuing	Belgian	occupation	of	Luxembourg	and	Limburg	did
the	Rothschilds	consent	to	the	Belgian	request.	In	partnership	with	the	Société
Générale,	the	Paris	house	now	took	more	than	half	of	a	new	issue	of	treasury
bills.	The	decision	to	lend	to	the	new	state	was,	in	many	ways,	a	remarkable
gamble,	for	the	Rothschilds	had	no	way	of	knowing	that	the	diplomatic	stand-off
would	end	peacefully.	But	it	was	a	gamble	that	paid	off,	not	least	because
Belgium	was	to	prove	one	of	the	dynamos	of	European	industrialisation.
Poland	was	a	different	case,	however.	Although	the	Rothschilds	had	business
links	in	Warsaw	just	as	they	had	in	Brussels,	they	were	never	seriously	interested
in	the	success	of	the	Polish	revolt.	Expressions	of	sympathy	aside—“poor	Poles,
I	pity	them,”	wrote	Charlotte	to	her	mother—they	did	nothing	to	assist	the
revolt;	on	the	contrary,	as	we	have	seen,	they	sought	to	lend	money	to	Russia

--- Page 347 ---
which	would	have	been	used	to	crush	the	revolt,	and	actually	sold	guns	to	St
Petersburg.
In	Italy	too	there	was	no	question	of	assisting	the	revolution.	Here,	even
before	the	political	situation	had	been	brought	under	control,	the	brothers
arranged	a	£400,000	loan	to	the	Papacy	in	partnership	with	an	Italian	banker
named	Torlonia.	Perhaps	more	than	any	other	Rothschild	transaction	of	the
1830s,	this	loan	fascinated	contemporaries,	who	were	in	varying	measures
amused	or	appalled	by	the	notion	of	a	Jewish	bank	lending	to	the	Holy	See.
Carl’s	audience	with	the	Pope	in	January	1832,	for	example,	was	widely
commented	upon.	“Now	things	are	getting	at	last	into	the	order	that	God	desired
when	He	created	the	world,”	sneered	Börne:
A	poor	Christian	kisses	the	Pope’s	feet;	a	wealthy	Jew	kisses	his	hand.	If
Rothschild	had	got	his	Roman	loan	at	60	per	cent	instead	of	65	and	so	
been	able
to	give	the	cardinal-chamberlain	another	10,000	ducats,	he	might	have	been
permitted	to	fall	on	the	Holy	Father’s	neck.	The	Rothschilds	are	assuredly	nobler
than	their	ancestor	Judas	Iscariot.	He	sold	Christ	for	30	small	pieces	of	silver;
the	Rothschilds	would	buy	Him,	if	He	were	for	sale.
“Like	pagan	Rome	Christian	Rome	too	was	overcome	and	even	obliged	to	pay
tribute,”	gloated	the	more	sympathetic	Heine,	conjuring	up	a	vision	of	the	portly
Papal	emissary	arriving	at	the	Rothschild	office	in	the	rue	Laffitte	to	deliver	“the
tribute	of	Rome”	to	“a	fair	haired	young	man	.	.	.	who	is	somewhat	older	than	he
looks	and	whose	aristocratic,	grand-seigneurial	nonchalance	has	something	so
solid,	so	positive	about	it	that	you	might	be	inclined	to	think	that	he	had	in	his
pocket	all	the	money	of	this	world.	And	indeed—he	does	have	all	the	money	of
this	world	in	his	pocket;	his	name	is	James	de	Rothschild	.	.	.	What	further	need,
then,	of	the	Talmud?”	“The	Jewish	banker	says:	‘[God]	has	given	me	the	royalty
of	wealth	and	the	understanding	of	opulence,	which	is	the	sceptre	of	society,’	”
wrote	Alfred	de	Vigny	in	July	1837.	“A	Jew	now	reigns	over	the	Pope	and
Christianity.	He	pays	monarchs	and	buys	nations.”
In	truth,	the	Rothschilds	themselves	had	their	doubts	about	the	wisdom	of	it.
At	first,	James	was	tempted	to	let	two	English	banks,	Wilson	&	Co.	and	Wright
&	Co.,	take	the	lead,	for	two	reasons:
First,	we	are	Jews,	and	if	we	should	have	a	different	Pope	who	is	an	evil	man,	he
will	say	to	himself	that	he	could	earn	a	ticket	to	Paradise	if	he	refuses	to	pay
anything	to	Jews.	Secondly,	I	think	the	Pope’s	financial	situation	is	in	a	bad	state,
similar	to	that	of	Spain,	and	if	they	should	decide	not	to	pay	their	interest,	we

--- Page 348 ---
will	then	not	be	involved	with	them	directly.
At	the	same	time,	he	and	Lionel	feared	that	while	the	British	banks	would	find	it
easy	to	sell	their	shares,	because	of	“the	certainty	of	[their]	being	able	to	place
amongst	their	Catholic	friends,	all	their	shares,”	the	Rothschilds,	“having	quite	a
different	connexion	&	not	having	the	confidence	of	the	friends	of	His	Holiness,
should	have	no	employment	for	this	stock	&	should	be	obliged	to	lock	up	our
own	money	in	it.”	This	partly	explains	the	Rothschilds’	uncharacteristic	caution
in	proposing	to	take	the	loan	in	three	separate	tranches,	retaining	the	option	to
withdraw	after	the	first.	On	the	other	hand,	the	stabilisation	of	Papal	finances
promised	at	least	short	term	and	diplomatic	benefits,	because	(as	Périer,	Pozzo
and	Apponyi	all	agreed)	“the	Pope,	if	he	is	in	need	of	money,	and	he	receives	the
same,	will	then	ensure	that	peaceful	conditions	are	maintained.”	Moreover,	there
was	much	more	public	demand	for	the	loan	than	James	had	anticipated,	leading
to	a	hasty	last-minute	renegotiation	of	the	deal	to	the	disadvantage	of	Wilson	and
Wright,	who	found	themselves	cut	out.	The	loan,	issued	at	70	but	soon	rising
above	79,	turned	out	to	be	a	“most	excellent	little	business,”	Lionel	reported
with	relief.	Although	the	recurrence	of	unrest	in	February	1832	caused	a
temporary	setback,	the	bonds	surged	to	a	peak	of	83	that	summer	and	rose	with
only	minor	checks	to	reach	par	in	1835.
At	first	sight,	there	was	something	contradictory	about	all	this,	an	echo	of
Heine’s	point	about	the	Rothschilds’	ambivalence	towards	revolution:	they	lent
at	one	and	
the	same	time	to	revolutionary	states	like	Belgium	and	conservative
states	like	the	Papacy.	On	closer	inspection,	the	rationale	was	consistent:	the
Rothschilds	made	money	available	to	new	states	if	they	had	the	backing	of	the
five	great	powers.	Formal	or	informal	guarantees	made	loans	attractive	whether
they	were	to	an	independent	Belgium	or	a	superficially	reforming	Papacy.	In	that
sense,	they	were	merely	carrying	on	the	policy	which	they	had	begun	in	the
1820s	and	which	contemporaries	had	misrepresented	when	they	called	them
bankers	to	the	Holy	Alliance.	The	obvious	precursor	to	their	support	for	Belgium
was	their	loan	to	Greece.	As	early	as	February	1830,	when	Leopold	of	Saxe-
Coburg	was	being	touted	as	a	possible	monarch	for	the	new	kingdom,	James
urged	Nathan:
to	pay	a	visit	to	your	Coburg	for	there	is	business	to	be	made	from	Greece.
England	has	already	agreed	that	if	Coburg	is	prepared	to	accept,	then	they	will
guarantee	to	pay	the	country	the	same	every	month	as	France	and	Russia	and	he
is	negotiating	with	them	that	England	should	join	in	granting	the	guarantee

--- Page 349 ---
together	with	France	and	Russia.
This	was	premature.	It	was	not	until	May	1832	that	a	treaty	was	signed	by	the
powers	guaranteeing	a	loan	to	the	new	King,	and	he	was	a	Bavarian	rather	than	a
Coburg	prince	(much	less	the	Dutch	prince	predicted	by	Ludwig	Börne).	But	the
Rothschilds	were	still	determined	to	handle	the	loan,	and	fought	a	hard	battle	for
control	against	the	Bavarian	banker	d’Eichthal	and	the	Spaniard	Aguado.	Greece
herself	might	be	“worthless,”	but	a	60	million	franc	loan	guaranteed	by	France,
England	and	Russia	looked	a	sure	thing.	The	feeling	was	mutual.	Apponyi	spoke
for	all	the	diplomats	when	he	said:	“Mr.	Rothschild,	it	must	not	happen	that	such
a	large	deal,	in	which	all	the	Powers	are	interested,	should	be	completed	without
your	participation.”	
7
	By	contrast,	where	the	powers	had	difficulty	in	agreeing—
for	example	over	Portugal,	where	the	years	1830-34	saw	the	return	of	Dom
Pedro	from	Brazil	and	his	successful	deposition	of	his	brother	Dom	Miguel—the
Rothschilds	kept	their	distance.
In	a	multi-polar	world,	in	which	five	powers	with	distinct	interests	sought	to
resolve	international	crises	without	resorting	to	war,	the	Rothschilds	acted	not	so
much	to	ensure	peace—their	power	was	more	limited	than	that—as	to
underwrite
	it	once	it	had	been	made.

--- Page 350 ---
TEN
The	World’s	Bankers
The	Rothschilds	are	the	wonders	of	modern	banking	.	.	.	We	see
the	descendants	of	Judah,	after	a	persecution	of	two	thousand
years,	peering	above	kings,	rising	higher	than	emperors,	and
holding	a	whole	continent	in	the	hollow	of	their	hands.	The
Rothschilds	govern	a	Christian	world.	Not	a	cabinet	moves
without	their	advice.	They	stretch	their	hand,	with	equal	ease,
from	Petersburg	to	Vienna,	from	Vienna	to	Paris,	from	Paris	to
London,	from	London	to	Washington.	Baron	Rothschild,	the
head	of	the	house,	is	the	true	king	of	Judah,	the	prince	of	the
captivity,	the	Messiah	so	long	looked	for	by	this	extraordinary
people.	He	holds	the	keys	of	peace	or	war,	blessing	or	cursing	.	.
.	They	are	the	brokers	and	counsellors	of	the	kings	of	Europe
and	of	the	republican	chiefs	of	America.	What	more	can	they
desire?
—NILES	WEEKLY	REGISTER,	1835-36
	
	
	
	
In	the	years	after	1832,	as	fears	of	revolution	and	war	gradually	subsided,	the
Rothschilds	appeared	to	increase	the	geographical	extent	of	their	financial
influence.	The	American	author	of	the	passage	quoted	above	was	just	one	of
many	writers	to	comment	on	this	expansion.	At	around	the	same	time,	Thomas
Raikes	observed	in	his	journal:	“The	Rothschilds,	who	began	by	sweeping	out	a
shop	at	Manchester,	have	become	the	metallic	sovereigns	of	Europe.	From	their
different	establishments	in	Paris,	London,	Vienna,	Frankfurt,	Petersburg	[
sic
]
and	Naples,	they	have	obtained	a	control	over	the	European	exchanges	which	no
party	ever	before	could	accomplish,	and	they	now	seem	to	hold	the	strings	of	the
public	purse.	No	sovereign	without	their	assistance	now	could	raise	a	loan.”	As

--- Page 351 ---
Prince	Pückler	had	put	it,	punning	on	the	German	word	
Gläubiger
	(believer	or
creditor),	“the	great	R[othschild]	could	be	compared	with	the	Sultan,	for	the
latter	was	the	ruler	of	all	believers,	while	the	former	was	the	creditor	of	all
rulers.”	The	German	economist	Friedrich	List	agreed:	Rothschild	was	“the	pride
of	Israel,	the	mighty	lender	and	master	of	all	the	coined	and	uncoined	silver	and
gold	in	the	Old	World,	before	whose	money	box	Kings	and	Emperors	humbly
bow”—in	short,	the	“King	of	Kings.”	William	Makepeace	Thackeray	made	the
same	point	in	some	early	and	undistinguished	verses	published	in	the	short-lived
National	Standard
	in	1833:
Here’s	the	pillar	of	’Change!	Nathan	Rothschild	himself,	
With	whose	fame	every	bourse	in	the	universe	rings;	
The	first	Baron	Juif;	by	the	grace	of	his	pelf,	
Not	“the	king	of	the	Jews,”	but	“the	Jew	of	the	kings.”
	
The	great	incarnation	of	cents	and	consols,	
The	eighths,	halves	and	quarters,	scrip,	options	and	shares;	
Who	plays	with	new	kings	as	young	Misses	with	dolls;	
The	monarch	undoubted	of	bulls	and	of	bears!
Cartoonists	echoed	and	even	amplified	such	comments.	One	English	print
dating	from	1829	shows	Nathan	as	“the	great	humming	top	spinning	a	loan,”
with	kings	bowing	before	him	as	he	distributes	coins	to	them	(see	illustration
10.i).
Perhaps	the	most	potent	(and	pejorative)	of	all	such	images	was	produced	by
an	anonymous	German	cartoonist	in	around	1840.
1
	
Die	Generalpumpe
	portrays	a
grotesquely	caricatured	Jew—evidently	a	composite	Rothschild—as	a	giant
money	pump,	a	play	on	the	double	meaning	of	the	German	
pumpen
,	to	pump	or
to	lend	(see	illustration	10.ii).	The	central	figure	stands	knee-deep	in	a	sack	full
of	gold;	his	bulging	stomach	is	the	earth	itself,	with	a	louis	d’or	(labelled
“earth’s	axis”)	for	a	North	Pole	or	belly-button;	and	on	his	head	he	wears	a	paper
crown	bearing	the	names	of	major	Rothschild	loans	of	the	1820s	and	1830s	(the
Prussian,	Russian,

--- Page 352 ---
10.i:	“A.	C.”	[Crowhill],
	
The	Great	Humming	Top	spinning	a	Loan
	
(1820).

--- Page 353 ---
10.ii:
	
Die	Generalpumpe
	
(
c
.	1840).
Neapolitan,	Austrian	and	Portuguese).	According	to	the	badge	on	his	waistcoat,
he	is	no	less	than	“the	Executor	of	the	Court	of	all	the	World.”	Two	diminutive
figures	on	either	side	grip	the	monster’s	fingers,	as	if	working	the	pump	(though
it	is	not	clear	how	far	they	really	control	its	motion).	One	on	the	left	represents	a
Turk,	one	on	the	right	an	Austrian.	Beneath	are	the	recipients	of	Rothschild
money,	into	whose	cash-boxes	and	hats	streams	of	coins	flow.	The	Egyptian
ruler	Mehemet	Ali	and	his	son	Ibrahim	Pasha	are	depicted	on	the	left,	spoon-
feeding	the	Sultan;	below	them	sits	a	bespectacled	figure	with	a	bulldog	who
may	represent	a	British	Chancellor	of	the	Exchequer	(though	the	couple	behind
him	“Edouard	and	Kunigunde”	are	not	easily	identifiable).	On	the	other	side,
there	is	no	mistaking	Louis	Philippe	and	the	French	politician	Adolphe	Thiers;
the	less	instantly	recognisable	character	to	their	right	is	probably	the	Spanish
general	Baldomero	Espartero.	But	although	these	individuals	are	the	recipients
of	Rothschild’s	money,	they	are	also	entangled	in	thorny	tendrils	which	sprout
from	his	bulging	money	bag.	So	too	are	the	smaller	figures	beneath	them:	the
people	standing	at	a	closed	customs	post	marked	“Imports	Prohibited”	and	those
passing	through	an	open	one	marked	“Imports	Allowed	or	New	Income”;	the
soldiers	massed	on	the	right	bank	of	the	Rhine;	and	those	beneath	Espartero

--- Page 354 ---
begging	for	their	“unpaid	wages.”	Rothschild,	the	cartoon	suggests,	not	only
pumps	money	to	the	world,	but	sucks	it	back	like	a	monstrous	heart.
The	Pillar
There	was,	however,	something	of	a	discrepancy	between	this	imposing	image
of	international	power	and	the	quite	humdrum	appearance	of	what	Nathan
Rothschild	and	his	brothers	actually	
did
.	The	real	Rothschilds	bore	little
resemblance	to	the	sinister	figure	portrayed	in	
Die	Generalpumpe
.	According	to
one	of	the	many	curious	visitors	drawn	to	the	City	to	see	him	doing	business	at
the	Royal	Exchange,
2
	Nathan	was	“a	very	common	looking	person,	with	heavy
features,	flabby	pendent	lips,	and	a	projected	fish	eye.	His	figure,	which	was
stout,	awkward	and	ungainly,	was	enveloped	in	the	loose	folds	of	an	ample
surtout.”	We	have	numerous	portraits	and	caricatures	which	bear	this	description
out.	One	of	the	earliest	is	an	etching	by	Richard	Dighton	entitled	
A	View	from	the
Royal	Exchange
	and	first	published	in	October	1817	(see	illustration	10.iii).	It	is
a	side	view	of	a	man	in	a	black	coat	and	top	hat,	stomach	thrust	forward,	one
hand	in	his	pocket,	the	other	holding	a	sheet	of	paper.	The	image	proved	a
popular	one	with	illustrators:	Nathan	appears	in	a	similar	pose	in	George
Cruikshank’s	
The	Royal	Exchange
	(1821)	and	in	his	
Beauties	of	Brighton
(1826).	Each	time	it	was	reproduced,	however,	it	changed	subtly.	Thomas	Jones
added	a	nice	detail	in	his	1829	version	
A	Pillar	of	the	Exchange
,	which	depicted
Nathan	in	front	of	his	favourite	pillar	at	the	south-east	corner	of	the	exchange
(see	illustration	10.iv).	There	is	a	clever	ambiguity	to	the	juxtaposition:	Nathan
is	like	the	
pillar	in	his	solidity	and	immobility,	but	there	is	also	an	implied
contrast	between	the	whiteness	and	regularity	of	the	pillar	and	Nathan’s	black,
protuberant	shape.

--- Page 355 ---
10.iii:	Richard	Dighton,
	
A	View	from	the	Royal	Exchange
	
(1817).

--- Page 356 ---
10.iv:	Thomas	Jones,
	
A	PILLAR	of	the	EXCHANGE
	
(1829).
Less	subtle	artists	went	further,	accentuating	Nathan’s	protruding	lower	lip
and	stomach	in	ways	which	were	unmistakably	hostile.	The	French	artist	Jean-
Pierre	Dantan,	for	example,	made	a	terracotta	statuette	of	Nathan	in	1832	which
ranks	as	one	of	the	most	grotesque	of	all	Rothschild	caricatures.	Here	Nathan’s
lips	droop	obscenely	from	beneath	the	brim	of	his	hat	like	those	of	a	large	cod,
while	his	distended	belly	defies	gravity	atop	his	skinny	legs.	Thackeray	omitted
the	fat	stomach	in	his	sketch	of	
N.	M.	Rothschild,	Esq
.	which	accompanied	the
lines	quoted	above	(see	illustration	10.v);	but	the	final	verses	left	no	doubt	that
the	author	found	Nathan	physically	repulsive:
Oh	Plutus!	your	graces	are	queerly	bestowed!	
Else	sure	we	should	think	you	behaved	
infra	dig
.,	
When	with	favours	surpassing,	it	joys	you	to	load	
A	greasy-faced	compound	of	donkey	and	pig.
Here,	just	as	he	stands	with	his	head	pointed	thus,	
At	full	length,	gentle	reader,	we	lay	him	before	ye;	
And	we	then	leave	the	Jew	(what	we	wish	he’d	leave	us,	
But	we	fear	to	no	purpose),	
a	lone
	in	his	glory.

--- Page 357 ---
10.v:	William	Makepeace	Thackeray,
	
N.	M.	ROTHSCHILD	ESQ.,	National
Standard,
	
May	18,	1833).
While	the	numerous	silhouettes	produced	after	Nathan’s	death—most	of
which	used	the	title	
The	Shadow	of	a	Great	Man
—were	more	sympathetic,	they
were	not	exactly	flattering	either.	Even	the	various	portraits	of	Nathan
commissioned	by	the	family	do	not	really	attempt	to	glamorise	him.	It	is	true
that	some	who	saw	him	at	work	detected,	or	thought	they	detected,	a	faintly
heroic	aura.	The	American	visitor	quoted	above	declared	that	“there	was
something	commanding	in	his	air	and	manner,	and	the	deferential	respect	which
seemed	voluntarily	rendered	him	by	those	who	approached	him	showed	that	he
was	no	ordinary	person.	‘Who	is	that?’	was	the	natural	question,	‘The	King	of
the	Jews,’	was	the	reply.”	But,	whatever	his	temperamental	resemblance	to
Napoleon,	the	Emperor’s	financial	counterpart	and	nemesis	was	never	recast	by
the	romantic	imagination	in	a	heroic	mould.	What	contemporaries	saw	was	a	fat
man	buying	and	selling	pieces	of	paper:
The	persons	crowding	around	him,	were	presenting	bills	of	exchange.	He	would
glance	for	a	moment	at	a	paper,	return	it,	and	with	an	affir	matory	nod,	turn	to
the	next	individual	pressing	for	an	audience.	Two	well-looking	young	men,	with

--- Page 358 ---
somewhat	an	air	of	dandyism,	stood	beside	him	making	a	memorandum	to	assist
in	the	recollections	of	bargains	regulating	the	whole	Continental	exchanges	of
the	day.
Nor	was	his	brother	James	any	more	ostentatious.	In	1837	a	Parisian	journalist
went	in	search	of	“M.	de	Rothschild	in	person	.	.	.	the	name	which	is	in	every
mouth,	the	Grand	Orient	of	the	rente,	the	key	to	the	safes	of	all	Europe.”	He	was
surprised	to	see	how	modestly	“the	sovereign”	entered	“his	capital”:
M.	de	Rothschild’s	appearances	are	of	short	duration,	between	3	and	3.25	p.m.,
that	is	to	say,	five	or	ten	minutes	before	the	close	of	business	.	.	.	He	usually
arrives	accompanied	by	one	of	his	nephews,	but	his	entrance	creates	not	the
slightest	sensation.	People	surround	him	eagerly,	above	all	the	brokers	who	are
almost	importunate,	which	does	not	prevent	him	from	listening	to	them	and
replying	to	them	with	his	habitual	good	humour.	He	himself	greets	and
approaches	first	some	of	his	fellow	bankers;	his	conversation	is	never	long	and
no	one	whispers	a	word	of	it;	the	bell	rings	[and]	people	start	to	leave;	they	go,
and	he	goes	just	like	everyone	else—with	no	more	ceremony	than	accompanied
his	arrival.
Salomon	was	apparently	even	more	approachable	in	Vienna:	“Every	day	from
the	opening	of	the	Bourse	at	12	o’clock	to	its	close	at	four,	he	[is]	besieged	by
brokers	and	stockjobbers	anxious	to	give	him	reports	of	the	tendency	of	the
market,	and	eager	to	receive	and	to	execute	his	commissions.”
Those	who	were	admitted	into	the	Rothschild	offices	were	struck	by	the	same
unpretentious—though	to	outsiders	enigmatic—bustle.	When	Prince	Pückler
first	sought	out	Nathan	in	1826,	he	was	surprised	to	find	that	“the	ruler	of	the
City	.	.	.	in	fact	.	.	.	occupies	here	only	an	insignificant	location	.	.	.	and	in	the
little	courtyard	of	the	counting	house	my	access	to	this	best-connected	member
of	the	Holy	Alliance	was	impeded	by	a	van	loaded	with	silver	ingots.”	No
detailed	descriptions	of	the	interior	of	New	Court	in	Nathan’s	day	have	survived;
but	we	have	what	(allowing	for	authorial	embroidery)	may	be	an	approximate
description	in	Disraeli’s	
Tancred
.	Like	Pückler,	Tancred	finds	that	the
Rothschild-like	Sidonia	is	already	closeted	with	a	foreign	ambassador:
Tancred	entered	Sequin	Court;	a	chariot	with	a	foreign	coronet	was	at	the	foot	of
the	great	steps	which	he	ascended.	He	was	received	by	a	fat	hall	porter	.	.	.	who,
rising	in	lazy	insolence	from	his	hooded	chair,	when	he	observed	that	Tancred
did	not	advance,	asked	the	newcomer	what	he	wanted.

--- Page 359 ---
“I	want	Monsieur	de	Sidonia.”
“Can’t	see	him	now;	he	is	engaged.”
“I	have	a	note	for	him.”
“Very	well,	give	it	me;	it	will	be	sent	in.	You	can	sit	here.”	And	the	porter
opened	the	door	of	a	waiting-room	which	Tancred	declined	to	enter.	“I	will	wait
here,	thank	you,”	said	Tancred,	and	he	looked	round	at	the	old	oak	hall,	on	the
walls	of	which	were	hung	several	portraits	and	from	which	ascended	one	of
those	noble	staircases	never	found	in	a	modern	London	mansion	.	.	.
“I	can’t	disturb	master	now	[said	the	porter];	the	Spanish	ambassador	is	with
him,	and	others	are	waiting.	When	he	is	gone,	a	clerk	will	take	in	your	letter	with
some	others	that	are	here.”
At	this	moment,	and	while	Tancred	remained	in	the	hall,	various	persons
entered,	and,	without	noticing	the	porter,	pursued	their	way	across	the	apartment.
“And	where	are	those	persons	going?”	inquired	Tancred.
The	porter	looked	at	the	enquirer	with	a	blended	gaze	of	curiosity	
and
contempt,	and	then	negligently	answered	him	.	.	.	“Some	are	going	to	the
counting-house	and	some	are	going	to	the	Bank,	I	should	think.”
After	this,	the	ingenuous	visitor	is	left	to	cool	his	heels	for	a	while	until	the
ambassador’s	departure	is	finally	heralded	by	“a	stir”:
“Now	your	letter	will	go	in	with	the	others,”	[the	hall	porter]	said	to	Tancred,
whom	for	a	few	moments	he	left	alone	.	.	.
Tancred	was	ushered	into	a	spacious	and	rather	long	apartment,	panelled	with
old	oak	up	to	the	white	coved	ceiling,	which	was	richly	ornamented	.	.	.	A
Turkey	carpet,	curtains	of	crimson	damask,	some	large	tables	covered	with
papers,	several	easy	chairs,	against	the	walls	some	iron	cabinets,	these	were	the
furniture	of	the	room,	at	one	corner	of	which	was	a	glass	door,	which	led	to	a
vista	of	apartments	fitted	up	as	counting-houses,	filled	with	clerks,	and	which,	if
expedient,	might	be	covered	by	a	baize	screen	which	was	now	unclosed.
The	only	thing	which	casts	serious	doubt	on	this	is	that	the	atmosphere	in	the
other	Rothschild	houses	was	so	very	different.	James,	for	instance,	was	always
surprisingly	accessible	in	his	office.	When	he	paid	a	visit	in	the	late	1820s,
Metternich’s	son	Viktor	found	it	was:
like	a	positive	magic	lantern	for	people	of	the	most	various	appearance	and
every	kind	of	expression	were	constantly	coming	in	and	out.	On	that	particular
day	the	constant	coming	and	going	was	specially	noticeable,	as	securities	quoted

--- Page 360 ---
on	the	bourse	were	fluctuating	violently.	The	great	banker	himself,	who
generally	maintains	an	attitude	of	such	dignified	calm,	betrayed	a	certain
nervousness.	Our	conversation	was	frequently	interrupted	by	bourse	agents
reporting	quotations	to	their	chief.
The	Frankfurt	bank	was	also,	according	to	a	rare	contemporary	description,
“open	plan”	in	its	design:
He	sits	in	his	office	in	the	midst	of	his	clerks	like	a	Padishah;	below	him	are	his
secretaries,	and	around	him	may	be	seen	a	crowd	of	brokers,	for	ever	coming
and	going.	With	a	few	words	he	dismisses	each,	for	like	a	true	business	genius
he	knows	at	once	what	answer	to	give	to	every	question,	and	what	decision	to
arrive	at	on	any	business	that	may	be	laid	before	him	for	consideration	.	.	.	To
speak	to	him	privately	on	a	matter	of	business	is	well	nigh	impossible;
everything	in	his	office	is	done	openly	as	in	a	law	court.
In	other	words,	what	went	on	in	the	Rothschild	offices	was	not	so	very	different
from	what	went	on	at	the	various	exchanges:	much	toing	and	froing	of	brokers,
much	exchanging	of	pieces	of	paper.
Those	who	came	expecting	some	visible	manifestation	of	Rothschild	power
therefore	were	invariably	disappointed	by	what	they	could	glimpse	of	the
brothers’	routine	activity—hence	the	temptation	which	lies	behind	so	much
Rothschild	mythology	to	imagine	some	invisible	mainspring:	the	Hebrew
talisman,	for	example,	or	some	sort	of	elaborate	fraud	of	the	sort	perpetrated	by
Balzac’s	Nucingen.	The	only	real	clue	contemporaries	could	find	to	illuminate
the	Rothschilds’	prodigious	success	was	the	speed	with	which	Nathan	was	able
to	make	complex	financial	calculations	and	the	ease	with	which	he	committed
these	to	memory.	“Even	without	[his	sons’]	assistance,”	another	writer	remarked,
“he	is	said	to	be	able	to	call	to	mind	every	bargain	he	has	made.”	The	same	point
was	later	made	by	his	obituarist	in	
The	Times
:
He	never	hesitated	for	a	moment	in	fixing	the	rate,	either	as	a	drawer	or	a	taker,
on	any	part	of	the	world,	and	his	memory	was	so	retentive,	that,	notwithstanding
the	immense	transactions	into	which	he	entered	on	every	foreign	post	day,	and
that	he	never	took	a	note	of	them,	he	could	dictate	the	whole	on	his	return	home
with	perfect	exactness	to	his	clerks.
“His	ambition,”	wrote	another	writer	after	his	death,	“was	to	arrive	at	his	aim
more	quickly	and	more	effectually	than	others	and	to	steer	towards	it	with	all	his
energy.	When	his	end	was	reached	it	had	lost	all	it	charm	for	him,	and	he	turned

--- Page 361 ---
his	never-	wearying	mind	to	something	else.”
To	some,	this	restless	aptitude	could	seem	almost	diabolical.	“There	is,”
observed	one	who	watched	Nathan	at	work,
a	rigidity	and	tension	in	his	features	that	would	make	you	fancy,	if	you	did	not
see	that	it	was	not	so,	that	someone	was	pinching	him	behind	and	that	he	was
either	afraid	or	ashamed	to	say	so.	Eyes	are	usually	denominated	the	windows	of
the	soul,	but	here	you	would	conclude	that	the	windows	are	false	ones,	or	that
there	were	no	soul	to	look	out	of	them.	There	comes	not	one	pencil	of	light	from
the	interior,	neither	is	there	one	scintillation	of	that	which	comes	from	without
reflected	in	any	direction.	The	whole	puts	you	in	mind	of	a	skin	to	let,	and	you
wonder	why	it	stands	upright	without	at	least	something	in	it.	By-and-by	another
figure	comes	up	to	it.	It	then	steps	two	paces	aside,	and	the	most	inquisitive
glance	that	you	ever	saw	.	.	.	is	drawn	out	of	the	erewhile	fixed	and	leaden	eye,
as	if	one	were	drawing	a	sword	from	a	scabbard.	The	visiting	figure,	which	has
the	appearance	of	coming	by	accident	and	not	by	design,	stops	but	a	second	or
two,	in	the	course	of	which	looks	are	exchanged	which,	though	you	cannot
translate,	you	feel	must	be	of	important	meaning.	After	these,	the	eyes	are
sheathed	up	again,	and	the	figure	resumes	its	stony	posture.	During	the	morning,
numbers	of	visitors	come,	all	of	whom	meet	with	a	similar	reception	and	vanish
in	a	similar	manner;	and	last	of	all,	the	figure	itself	vanishes,	leaving	you	utterly
at	a	loss	as	to	what	can	be	its	nature	and	its	functions.
Overdone	though	it	is,	this	account	nevertheless	captures	another	intimidating
quality	which	contemporaries	often	remarked	upon:	Nathan’s	tendency	to	veer
between	sang-froid	and	sudden,	alarming	action.	In	1821	he	was	reported	to
have	received	the	threat	of	assassination	“with	a	smile,	and	after	returning	his
thanks	for	the	intelligence,	with	the	observation,	that	as	he	felt	he	had	never	done
wrong	to	any	individual,	he	could	not	entertain	the	idea	that	any	persons	could
have	formed	so	atrocious	a	design	as	that	described,	and	that	he	really	thought
the	affair	unworthy	of	his	attention.”	Two	years	later,	however,	when	he	found	a
stranger	occupying	his	usual	place	at	the	Royal	Exchange,	he	became	“so
excited	by	being	displaced	that	it	was	some	time	before	he	could	compose
himself	and	commence	business.”	The	
Circular	to	Bankers
	tactfully	alluded	to
Nathan’s	“strong	and	unfettered	will”	and	the	“pride	of	temper	resulting	from	his
high	new	position	which	made	him	bear	down	at	any	personal	risk	all
opposition.”	This	overbearing	quality,	as	we	have	seen,	often	spilled	over	into
his	correspondence.	“The	language	which	Mr	Rothschild	could	use	when	his

--- Page 362 ---
anger	overbalances	his	discretion,”	recalled	one	who	had	evidently	witnessed
him	in	full	flow,	“was	a	licence	allowed	to	his	wealth	.	.	.	His	mode	of	dictating
letters	was	characteristic	of	a	mind	entirely	absorbed	by	money-making;	and	his
ravings	when	he	found	a	bill	unexpectedly	protested,	were	translated	into
mercantile	language	ere	they	were	fit	to	meet	a	correspondent’s	eye.”
His	brothers,	to	whom	he	wrote	in	his	own	hand,	were	not	thus	spared.	We
have	already	seen	how	brutal	Nathan	could	be	in	his	private	letters	to	his
brothers;	he	did	not	much	mellow	with	age.	In	1828	Salomon’s	son	Anselm
wrote	to	Lionel,	Nathan’s	eldest:	“Pray	tell	to	your	good	father	not	to	write	in
future	such	violent	letters	against	Uncle	Amschel.	They	hurt	his	health	I	assure
you,	and	for	what	reason?	because	he	wrote	to	your	Papa,	that	he	is	in	want	for
[
sic
]	money	and	that	you	owe	him	in	[
sic
]	Account	.	.	.	the	Man	gets	old	and
weak	and	if	you	are	not	a	little	careful	in	your	letters	he	will	give	it	up	.	.	.”	Six
years	later	Nat	reported	that	Amschel’s	“state	of	health	renders	him	very
nervous”	and	recommended	“very	strongly”	that	his	father	“coax	him	a	little	in
your	letters	&	by	no	means	.	.	.	scold	[him]	as	it	has	more	effect	than	you
imagine.”	There	were	occasional	clashes	with	the	more	resilient	James	too.	In
1832	he	“protested	vehemently”	against	making	a	loan	to	Greece,	for	example,
and	did	so	only	when	he	received	a	letter	from	New	Court	saying:	“Under	no
circumstances	must	you	allow	the	deal	to	slip	through	your	fingers.”	He	was
beside	himself	when	Nathan	then	changed	his	mind,	sending	him	a	second	letter
saying:	“Don’t	do	anything	concerning	Greece.”	The	two	had	a	similar
contretemps	over	Portugal	in	1835.
Yet	it	is	not	enough	to	explain	the	Rothschilds’	financial	success	purely	in
terms	of	Nathan’s	personality,	important	though	it	was.	Increasingly	in	the
1830s,	the	main	source	of	fraternal	strife	was	not	Nathan’s	dominance,	which
was	more	or	less	uncontested,	so	much	as	his	indifference.	In	1831,	for	example,
Lionel	relayed	a	message	to	his	father:	“Uncle	James	hopes	Papa	does	not	do	all
the	business	in	rentes	in	London	for	your	account	for	it	will	quite	destroy	all	the
business	between	the	two	Houses	and	in	the	end	others	will	run	away	with	the
business.”	Two	years	later,	Nat	wrote	from	Frankfurt	that	his	uncle	Amschel
“complain[ed]	my	dear	Papa	about	your	doing	so	little	business	with	him	.	.	.	I
am	sure,	my	dear	Papa,	you	will	see	what	our	good	uncle	wants,	he	wishes
particularly	that	you	should	do	as	much	business	with	him	as	formerly.”	When
this	elicited	no	response	from	New	Court,	Nat	was	forced	to	try	again:
He	begs	dear	papa	you	will	be	so	good	as	to	do	as	much	business	as	possible
with	him;	he	complains	not	a	little	of	your	giving	the	preference	to	Paris	&

--- Page 363 ---
Vienna.	I	must	say	that	he	is	a	most	excellent	man,	&	if	it	is	possible	to	please
him	one	ought	to	do	so	.	.	.	[W]ith	Uncle	A.	however	it	is	advisable	not	to	pay
attention	to	trifles.
Trifles	aside,	there	was	plainly	some	truth	in	Amschel’s	complaint.	By	the
early	1830s	the	financial	ties	between	the	London	and	Frankfurt	houses	seemed
to	be	
loosening	as	the	brothers	saw	less	of	one	another.	Nor	was	this	the	only
sign	that	centrifugal	forces	were	at	work.	Just	a	year	later	Carl	in	Naples	levelled
a	very	similar	charge	against	James.	This	time	it	was	Nathan	who	had	to	act	as
arbitrator	between	the	two.	“Concerning	what	our	brother	Carl	has	written	to
you,	my	dear	Nathan,	that	I	have	not	been	regularly	writing	to	him,”	James
wrote	in	response	to	some	rebuke	on	the	subject,
for	the	sake	of	maintaining	cordial	relations	and	in	accordance	with	your	wishes
and	those	of	our	brother	Salomon,	I	have	in	fact	written	to	him	on	five
occasions,	and	I	completely	forgot	the	stupid	letter	which	he	wrote	to	me	.	.	.	as
if	it	never	existed.	Please	ask	for	these	to	be	sent	to	you	from	Naples,	and	you
will	then	see	that	I	did	write,	for	I	want	to	maintain	peaceful	relations	and	don’t
want	any	quarrels.	Well,	I	did	all	that	I	consider	an	upright	man	is	obliged	to	do
for	his	brother.	[T]hey	can	complain	about	me,	but	I	will	not	write	any	more
until	such	time	as	I	receive	letters	from	them,	for	I	am	no	less	a	Rothschild	and	I
can	stand	on	my	honour	as	much	as	our	brother	Carl.
Of	course,	the	fact	that	the	other	brothers	appealed	to	Nathan	when	they	fell	out
shows	how	far	Nathan	remained	“the	commanding	general”—the	pillar	on	which
the	entire	Rothschild	edifice	rested,	as	unshakeable	as	the	pillar	he	stood	beside
at	the	Royal	Exchange.	But	disputes	such	as	these	suggest	that	additional
buttresses	were	needed	to	preserve	that	edifice	intact.
	
	
The	Rothschild	System
If	there	was	a	single	“secret”	of	Rothschild	success	it	was	the	system	of	co-
operation	between	the	five	houses	which	made	them,	when	considered	as	a
whole,	the	largest	bank	in	the	world,	while	at	the	same	time	dispersing	their
financial	influence	in	five	major	financial	centres	spread	across	Europe.	This
multinational	system	was	regulated	by	the	partnership	agreements	which	were
drawn	up	and	revised	every	few	years	and	which	were,	in	effect,	the	constitution
of	a	financial	federation.	The	earliest	such	agreement,	as	we	have	seen,	had	been

--- Page 364 ---
drawn	up	in	1810,	but	this	was	untypical	because	of	Mayer	Amschel’s
continuing	dominance	and	the	wartime	exclusion	of	Nathan.	It	was	the	three-
year	contract	of	1815	between	all	five	brothers	which	was	the	first	authentically
“federal”	agreement.	The	crux	of	the	matter	at	this	stage	was	the	superior	wealth
of	the	London	house.	According	to	the	preamble	of	the	agreement,	the	brothers’
“partnership	property	in	London[,]	at	Paris	and	at	Frankfurt	on	the	Main	consists
of	the	sum	of	£500,000	or	thereabouts,”	but	most	of	this	was	evidently	Nathan’s.
The	contract	sought	to	redefine	the	brothers’	collective	assets	by	excluding	some
items	(presumably	real	estate),	and	redistributing	some	£200,000	in	the	form	of
promissory	notes	of	£50,000	each	from	Nathan	to	his	four	brothers.	The
resulting	shares	of	a	total	notional	capital	of	£336,000	were	Nathan,	27	per	cent;
Amschel	and	Salomon,	20	per	cent	each;	Carl	and	James,	16	per	cent	each.
Moreover,	it	was	agreed	to	defray	all	expenses	from	the	London	house’s
revenues	and	to	share	net	profits	at	the	end	of	each	year	equally.
In	the	three	years	during	which	this	contract	ran,	as	we	have	seen,	the
brothers’	capital	grew	at	a	phenomenal	rate,	from	£336,000	to	£1,772,000.	So
much	of	this	
increase	was	due	to	Nathan’s	immensely	successful	speculations	in
consols	that,	although	the	proportions	of	the	total	capital	were	more	or	less
unchanged,	his	brothers	now	agreed	to	weight	the	distribution	of	profits	in	his
favour.	As	Carl	saw	it,
Nathan	should	have	a	bigger	part	than	a	fifth.	He	has	a	big	family,	he	needs
more.	Whatever	you	arrange,	I	will	give	my	agreement	.	.	.	You	told	me	yourself
that	Nathan	has	to	be	given	[some]	prerogatives.	We	owe	everything,	really
everything	to	him.	He	saved	us.	We	wanted	to	take	a	jump	earlier	[that	is,	to	sell]
and	he	kept	us	back.
There	were	now	technically	“three	joint	mercantile	establishments	[conducted]
under	.	.	.	the	.	.	.	five	partners’	mutual	responsibility”:	N.	M.	Rothschild	in
London,	M.	A.	von	Rothschild	&	Söhne	in	Frankfurt	and	James’s	new	house	in
Paris,	de	Rothschild	Frères.	Henceforth,	half	of	all	the	profits	of	the	London
house	would	go	to	Nathan,	while	his	brothers	would	receive	an	eighth	each;	he
would	also	receive	four-sixteenths	of	the	profits	of	the	other	two	houses,	while
his	brothers	received	three-sixteenths	apiece.	The	1818	agreement	also
introduced	a	new	system	whereby	each	of	the	partners	received	4	per	cent	of
their	individual	capital	share	per	annum	by	way	of	an	income	to	cover	their
expenses	(both	business	and	domestic);	any	lump	sums	spent	on	legacies	for
children,	houses	or	landed	estates	were	to	be	deducted	from	the	individual’s

--- Page 365 ---
capital.	In	addition,	“to	preserve	regularity	in	the	books	and	accounts	.	.	.	it	has
been	determined	that	in	the	running	transactions	of	the	three	joint	establishments
although	they	form	but	one	general	joint	concern
	each	respectively	is	to	charge
exchange,	brokerage,	postages,	stamps	and	interest	pro	and	contra	at	the	rate	of	5
per	cent.”	To	reinforce	the	sense	of	collective	identity	it	was	now	specified	that
each	House	had	to	inform	the	others	of	the	transactions	it	carried	out	on	a
weekly	basis.
Although	initially	intended	to	run	for	just	three	years,	this	agreement	in	fact
remained	in	force	until	1825.	However,	it	would	be	wrong	to	infer	from	this	a
high	level	of	fraternal	harmony.	Quite	apart	from	the	periodic	disputes	described
in	previous	chapters,	the	four	continental	brothers	on	one	occasion	felt	obliged	to
draw	up	a	separate	agreement	between	themselves,	the	terms	of	which	suggest	a
quite	serious	rift	between	themselves	and	Nathan.
3
	Significantly,	the	1825
agreement	restored	the	1815	system	whereby	profits	were	shared	equally,
reflecting	the	fact	that	the	capital	of	both	the	Frankfurt	and	Paris	houses	had
grown	so	rapidly	as	to	outstrip	that	of	the	London	house.	On	the	other	hand,
Nathan’s	personal	share	continued	to	be	counted	as	more	than	a	quarter	of	the
joint	capital,	which	now	stood	at	more	than	£4	million.	Moreover,	although
Salomon	and	Carl	had	more	or	less	settled	in	Vienna	and	Naples,	their	houses
were	not	given	equal	status	with	the	original	three,	and	continued	to	be	treated	as
mere	“branch	establishments”	of	the	Frankfurt	house,	without	any	separate
capital	until	1828	(and	thereafter	relatively	little).	This	was	probably	intended	to
check	the	centrifugal	tendencies	discussed	above.	The	partners	now	bound
themselves	to	“mutually	inform	each	other	.	.	.	of	all	the	transactions,	of
whatever	nature	they	may	be,	which	have	occurred”	on	a	monthly	rather	than
weekly	basis.
The	1825	agreement	also	saw	the	first	steps	taken	to	bring	the	next	generation
into	the	firm,	with	the	decision	to	admit	Salomon’s	son	Anselm	as	a	partner
following	his	marriage	to	Nathan’s	daughter	Charlotte.	The	brothers	were
experiencing	the	
first	intimations	of	mortality:	the	1825	documents	included	a
clause	permitting	Amschel	to	withdraw	from	the	business	“if	the	work	becomes
too	hard	for	him,”	and	sought	to	anticipate	possible	disputes	over	inheritance	by
binding	each	of	the	partners’	heirs	to	accept	whatever	their	share	might	be
without	resort	to	law.	It	was	specifically	stated	that,	if	the	heirs	of	a	deceased
partner	took	legal	action	against	the	surviving	partners,	a	third	of	the	deceased’s
share	of	capital	would	be	forfeit	and	would	be	given	to	the	poor	of	Frankfurt,
London	and	Paris!
4

--- Page 366 ---
In	describing	their	terms,	it	is	easy	to	lose	sight	of	the	secrecy	of	these
agreements,	which	such	sanctions	were	intended	to	preserve.	When	the	brothers
met	at	Frankfurt	in	August	1828	to	take	stock	of	what	had	been	a	relatively
disappointing	three	years,	Nathan’s	wife	and	two	of	his	sons	were	present	but
were	wholly	excluded	from	the	negotiations,	just	as	they	would	be	eight	years
later.	“Papa	and	his	Brothers	with	Anselm	are	almost	continually	engaged	in
deliberating	upon	the	arrangement	of	their	concerns,”	reported	Hannah,	“which
are	held	in	the	Tower	in	the	Garden	and	are	perfectly	secret.”	The	most	she	could
say	was	that	“every	thing	among	the	family	seemed	to	be	going	on	with	much
unanimity.”	This	was	probably	something	of	a	relief	to	her,	as	the	accounts
drawn	up	in	1828	revealed	that,	though	the	partners’	personal	shares	remained
formally	unchanged,	the	relative	importance	of	the	London	house	had	continued
to	decline.	Its	share	of	the	total	capital	was	now	just	over	27	per	cent,	compared
with	42	per	cent	in	1818.	This	share	increased	only	very	slightly	in	the	eight
years	which	intervened	before	the	next	such	meeting	at	Frankfurt—the	fateful
1836	gathering	during	which	Nathan	unexpectedly	died.	As	a	result,	the
continental	partners	were	able	to	secure	new	and	potentially	more	favourable
terms	for	the	distribution	of	profits:	henceforth,	Nathan	would	receive	60	per
cent	of	the	profits	of	the	London	house	but	just	10	per	cent	of	the	profits	from
Frankfurt,	Naples	and	Vienna,	while	his	brothers	would	each	get	10	per	cent
from	the	London	house	and	22.5	per	cent	from	the	continental	houses.
5
	This	rule
—which	undoubtedly	increased	the	relative	autonomy	of	the	London	house—
was	retained	despite	Nathan’s	death:	all	his	rights	were	simply	transferred	to	his
four	sons.
It	goes	without	saying	that	the	Rothschilds	were	financially	successful;
indeed,	the	rate	of	growth	and	size	of	their	capital	in	the	period	before	1850	were
unprecedented	in	banking	history.	Table	10a	summarises	the	available	figures	for
the	combined	capital	of	the	various	houses	in	the	first	half	of	the	century:
Table	10a:	Combined	Rothschild	capital,	1797-1844	(£	thousand).


--- Page 367 ---
Sources:	CPHDCM,	637/1/3/1-11;	637/1/3;	637/1/6/5;	637/1/6/7/7-14;
637/1/6/32;	637/1/6/44,	45;	637/1/7/48-52;	637/1/7/53-69;	637/1/8/1-7;
637/1/9/1-4;	RAL,	RFamFD,	B/1;	RAL,	RFamFD/3;	AN,	132	AQ	1.
The	sheer	scale	of	the	Rothschilds’	resources	can	hardly	be	over-emphasised:
to	take	a	single	year—1825—their	combined	resources	were	nine	times	greater
than	the	capital	of	Baring	Brothers	and	eleven	times	larger	than	the	capital	of
James’s	principal	rival	in	Paris,	Laffitte.	They	even	exceeded	the	capital	of	the
Banque	de	France	(around	£3	million	at	this	time).	Surviving	figures	for	the
individual	houses	are	patchy,	especially	before	1830.	For	the	London	house,
ledgers	survive	from	1809	but	there	are	no	profit	and	loss	accounts	for	the	years
before	1828.	Illustration	10.vi	gives	the	“bottom	line”	data	for	the	period	up	until
1850:	annual	profits	as	a	percentage	of	capital	at	the	beginning	of	the	year.	A
number	of	points	stand	out	from	these	figures:	firstly,	the	large	fluctuations	in
performance,	ranging	from	the	very	successful	(1834),	when	profits	were	close
to	a	quarter	of	capital,	to	the	wholly	disastrous	(1847),	when	close	to	a	third	of
the	firm’s	capital	was	lost.	Averaged	out,	profits	were	in	fact	rather
unremarkable,	though	this	partly	reflects	the	fact	that	all	expenses	were	deducted
before	net	profits	were	calculated,	rather	than	being	paid	out	of	profits.	The
figure	for	profits	(or	losses)	was	merely	added	to	(or	deducted	from)	the
previous	year’s	capital;	a	system	quite	unlike	that	used	by	the	Rothschilds’	great
rivals	Barings,	who	tended	to	calculate	gross	profits,	and	to	distribute	these	to
the	partners.	Perhaps	the	biggest	difference	between	the	Rothschilds	and	their
rivals	was	that	the	Rothschilds	ploughed	back	their	net	profits,	so	that	their
capital	tended	to	accumulate,	while	the	Barings	kept	their	capital	more	or	less
constant	and	sought	to	maximise	the	profits	on	which	they	could	then	live.
Between	1829	and	1846,	while	the	capital	of	N.	M.	Rothschild	increased	by	90
per	cent,	that	of	Barings	increased	by	just	50	per	cent.
The	other	house	for	which	detailed	accounts	survive	is	the	much	smaller
Naples	house.	Considering	its	size,	the	Naples	house	was	singularly	profitable,
especially	in	the	first	decade	of	its	existence.	Its	average	annual	profits	were
more	than	£30,000	between	1825	and	1829,	at	a	time	when	its	capital	was	little
more	than	£130,000;	and	throughout	the	1830s	and	1840s	its	profits	averaged
around	£20,000.	Unlike	the	London	and	Paris	houses,	it	appears	never	to	have
recorded	a	loss	despite	the	financial	crises	of	1825,	1830	and	1836.	Carl	may
have	been	regarded	by	contemporaries	as	the	least	gifted	of	the	five	brothers,	and
his	letters	intimate	a	certain	dullness.	Yet	there	can	be	no	doubting	his	financial
acumen.

--- Page 368 ---
There	are,	unfortunately,	no	complete	data	for	the	profits	of	the	Paris,
Frankfurt	or	Vienna	houses	in	this	period.	In	the	French	case,	the	only	surviving
figures	are	for	the	years	1824-28,	and	all	they	tell	us	is	the	extent	of	the	damage
done	to	James’s	position	by	the	crisis	of	1825	(when	his	losses	totalled	no	less
than	£356,000)	and	the	speed	with	which	he	recovered	from	the	setback	(his
profits	in	the	succeeding	two	years	were	£44,000	and	£124,000).	However,	it	is
possible	to	infer	average	annual	profits	for	all	the	houses	from	the	combined
capital	accounts	(table	10b),	though	the	different	periods	which	elapsed	between
agreements	make	these	a	rather	approximate	guide	to	performance.	These
suggest—rather	unexpectedly—that	the	London	house	was	in	fact	the	least
economically	successful	of	the	three	principal	Rothschild	houses:	average	annual
profits	were	higher	at	both	Frankfurt	and	Paris	for	the	period	1818-44.	Nathan’s
brothers—and	Amschel	in	particular—have	often	suffered	in	comparison	with
the	man	they	regarded	as	their	“commanding	general”;	but	even	in	the	period	of
Nathan’s	dominance,	the	Frankfurt	house	was	more	profitable	than	the	London
house.	The	Vienna	house	too	was	highly	profitable	in	view	of	its	small	capital
base.
10.vi:	N.	M.	Rothschild	&	Sons,	annual	profits	as	a	percentage	of	capital,
1830-1849.

--- Page 369 ---
Table	10b:	Average	annual	profits	of	the	five	Rothschild	houses,	1818-1844

--- Page 370 ---
(£	thousand).
Source:	As	table	10a.
The	question,	of	course,	is	whether	it	is	legitimate	to	make	such	comparisons
when	the	houses	were	still	regarded	by	the	partners	as	inseparably	linked.	The
Rothschild	correspondence	indicates	that	the	individual	houses	derived	a
substantial	part	of	their	profits	from	a	collective	strategy	whose	architect	before
1836	was	Nathan.	There	would	have	been	no	need	for	the	brothers	to	write	so
frequently	and	in	such	detail	to	one	another	if	this	had	not	been	the	case.	Nor
would	the	fundamental	principle	of	profit-sharing	have	lasted	for	long	if	the
individual	partners	had	not	continued	to	feel	dependent	on	one	another.	The
balance	sheets	of	the	Naples	house	give	a	good	indication	of	how	inextricable
the	activities	of	the	five	houses	were:	between	1825	and	1850	the	share	of	its
assets	which	were	monies	owed	to	it	by	the	other	Rothschild	houses	was	rarely
less	than	18	per	cent	and	sometimes	as	much	as	30	per	cent.	This	seems	to	have
been	the	case	for	all	the	houses.	In	1828	some	31	per	cent	of	the	assets	of	the
Paris	house	were	credits	to	the	other	Rothschilds,	mainly	to	New	Court.
How	exactly	did	the	brothers	make	their	money?	Thus	far,	we	have	principally
been	concerned	with	the	Rothschilds’	business	in	government	bonds,	as	(to	judge
by	their	letters)	this	was	the	activity	which	interested	them	most	in	the	period
before	1836.	It	was	also	the	activity	which	most	impressed	contemporaries,
because	of	its	obvious	political	implications.	Table	10c	provides	figures	for	the
total	nominal	value	of	the	loans	issued	by	the	London	and	Frankfurt	houses	in
the	period	(unfortunately,	no	lists	of	issues	appear	to	exist	for	the	other	houses).
Table	10c:	The	nominal	value	of	loans	issued	by	the	London	and	Frankfurt
houses,	1820-1859	(by	decade,	£).

--- Page 371 ---
Sources:	Ayer,	
Century	of	finance
,	pp.	16-81;	Berghoeffer,	
Meyer	Amschel
,	pp.
29-42,	206-28.
These	figures	confirm	that	the	Rothschilds	(and	especially	the	London	house)
were	throughout	the	period	the	dominant	force	in	international	bond	issues.
Between	1815	and	1859	the	London	house	issued	altogether	fifty	loans,
primarily	for	governments,	the	nominal	value	of	which	was	around	£250	million
—very	roughly	a	tenth	of	total	British	overseas	assets	in	the	1850s.	By
comparison,	Baring	Brothers	issued	just	fourteen	loans	in	the	same	period,	to	a
nominal	amount	of	£66	million.	Table	10d	shows	the	regional	distribution	of
loans—including	a	small	number	of	quite	large	private	sector	issues—in	which
the	London	house	participated	between	1818	and	1846.	These	figures	show	that
the	contemporary	view	of	the	Rothschilds	as	“bankers	to	the	Holy	Alliance”	was
exaggerated;	the	London	house’s	biggest	clients	were	France	and	Britain,	with
Prussia,	Russia	and	Austria	some	way	behind.
Table	10d:	Loans	issued	by	the	London	house,	1818-1846	(by	recipient).
Source:	Ayer,	
Century	of	finance
,	pp.	14-42.
It	is	relatively	easy	to	show	the	importance	of	government	bonds	in	the
balance	sheets	of	the	various	houses.	The	earliest	surviving	balance	sheet	of	the
London	house	(that	of	1828)	reveals	that	a	very	large	proportion	of	the	bank’s
assets—more	than	a	quarter—were	invested	in	British	government	bonds.	The

--- Page 372 ---
proportion	rises	to	37	per	cent	if	its	holdings	of	Danish	government	stock	are
added.	In	the	same	year,	35	per	cent	of	the	French	house’s	assets	took	the	form
of	French	3	per	cent	rentes.	The	“state	securities	account”	comprised	exactly	the
same	proportion	of	the	Vienna	house’s	assets,	suggesting	some	sort	of	rough
Rothschild	policy	to	keep	the	proportion	of	(supposedly)	“gilt-edged”	securities
at	around	a	third.	However,	it	is	much	harder	to	compute	the	profits	made	from
such	issues.	Commissions	and	other	charges	varied	considerably	from	case	to
case,	as	we	have	seen;	and	some	major	issues	actually	lost	large	sums	(the
French	loan	of	1830,	for	example).	In	any	case,	much	of	the	money	which	the
brothers	made	on	the	bond	market	came	not	from	issuing	new	bonds,	but	from
speculating	in	existing	bonds.	Here	too	precise	figures	are	hard	to	come	by.	To
judge	by	the	records	which	have	survived,	accounts	were	made	up	primarily
with	a	view	to	calculating	the	returns	on	specific	lines	of	business	or	transactions
and	ensuring	that	there	were	no	discrepancies	between	the	various	inter-
Rothschild	accounts.	Like	the	ledgers	of	most	nineteenth-century	firms,	the
London	house’s	did	not	group	its	transactions	according	to	type:	purchases	and
sales	of	all	kinds	were	logged	as	they	occurred	and	then	totted	up	at	the	end	of
the	year.	It	would	in	theory	be	possible	to	add	together	the	profits	obtained	from
purchases	and	sales	of	government	bonds,	but	it	would	be	exceedingly	laborious
and	it	has	not	been	attempted	here.	The	Naples	house	had	a	“rentes	account,”	but
it	also	maintained	separate	accounts	for	its	dealings	in	other	government
securities—Neapolitan,	Roman	and	so	on.	Because	it	constantly	changed	its
half-yearly	accounting	conventions,	creating	new	accounts	as	it	went	along,	it	is
well-nigh	impossible	to	make	more	than	an	impressionistic	assessment	of	its
activities.	The	most	that	can	be	
said	is	that	the	lion’s	share	of	its	profits	came
from	between	five	and	ten	joint	accounts,	some	with	other	Rothschild	houses,
some	with	other	Italian-based	banks;	from	commissions	charged	on	transactions
for	third	parties;	and	from	interest	on	various	unspecified	loans.
Of	course,	this	would	not	matter	if	the	Rothschilds	had	dealt	only	in
government	bonds.	But	their	banking	activities	were	in	fact	quite	heterogeneous,
and	grew	more	so	over	time.	Government	finance	was	their	first	love.	Of
comparable	importance,	however,	in	terms	of	the	
volume
	of	business,	if	not	the
profit-margins	achievable,	was	the	classic	business	of	the	London	“merchant
banker”:	the	acceptance	of	commercial	bills	or	bills	of	exchange.	In	the	words	of
the	1882	Bills	of	Exchange	Act—which	gave	statutory	precision	to	a	practice
dating	back	more	than	three	centuries—a	bill	of	exchange	was	“an	unconditional
order	in	writing	addressed	[and	signed]	by	one	person	(the	drawer)	to	another

--- Page 373 ---
(the	drawee)	.	.	.	requiring	.	.	.	the	drawee,	who	when	he	signs	it	becomes	the
acceptor,	to	pay	at	a	fixed	.	.	.	future	date	a	sum	.	.	.	to	.	.	.	a	specified	person	or
to	the	bearer.”	In	other	words,	the	seller	of	some	goods	would	draw	on	the	buyer
in	order	to	give	him	credit	for	a	specific	time	(often	three	or	four	months),	thus
allowing	him	to	put	off	payment	until	the	goods	had	arrived	and	been	sold	on	to
a	manufacturer	or	retailer.	The	role	of	the	merchant	banks	was	twofold:	to	act	as
a	bill’s	acceptor	on	behalf	of	a	buyer	(charging	an	acceptance	commission)	or	to
buy	it	from	a	drawer	at	a	discount	(charging	interest).	A	discount	house	could
also	rediscount	a	bill	by	selling	it	to	a	central	bank,	for	example,	and	adding	its
own	signature	or	endorsement.	The	banker	who	accepted	a	bill	was	effectively
“selling	the	use	of	[his]	name,”	that	is,	his	reputation	for	creditworthiness.
Such	buying	and	selling	of	commercial	bills	was	one	of	Nathan	Rothschild’s
principal	activities.	Its	importance	can	be	inferred,	again,	from	the	surviving
balance	sheets:	in	1828	“bills	receivable”	accounted	for	a	quarter	of	the	London
house’s	assets;	“bills	payable”	for	5	per	cent	of	its	liabilities.	Such	business	was
less	important	to	the	continental	houses,	reflecting	the	greater	volume	of
international	trade	conducted	through	London	in	the	nineteenth	century.	As
Nathan	put	it	in	his	evidence	to	the	Bank	Committee	in	1832,	“this	country	in
general	is	the	Bank	for	the	whole	world	.	.	.	all	transactions	in	India,	in	China,	in
Germany,	in	the	whole	world,	are	guided	here,	and	settled	through	this	country.”
Nevertheless,	the	other	Rothschild	houses	still	played	an	important	subsidiary
role	in	his	operations,	as	Nathan	explained:
I	buy	on	the	Exchange	bills	drawn	from	Liverpool,	Manchester,	New-castle	and
other	places,	and	which	come	to	every	banker	and	merchant	in	London.	I
purchase	£6,000	or	£7,000,	and	sometimes	£10,000	of	those	bills	in	a	week,	and
I	send	them	to	the	Continent	to	my	houses;	my	houses	purchase	against	them
bills	upon	this	country	which	are	purchases	for	wine,	wool	and	other
commodities	.	.	.	[I]f	there	be	not	a	sufficient	supply	of	bills	abroad	on	this
country	we	are	obliged	to	get	gold	from	Paris,	Hamburg	and	elsewhere.
This	was	a	reasonably	accurate	summary	of	what	went	on.	The	Rothschilds
did	not	seek	to	make	their	money	from	the	commissions	they	charged	for
accepting	bills	(indeed,	Nathan	was	well	known	for	charging	half	a	per	cent	less
than	other	
firms);	rather,	the	aim	was	to	profit	from	exchange	rate	differentials
between	the	various	European	markets.	The	Rothschild	correspondence
constantly	alludes	to	such	arbitrage	transactions:	was	the	price	of	“London”
(short-hand	for	bills	on	London)	high	enough	in	Paris	or	Frankfurt	to	justify

--- Page 374 ---
Nathan	sending	a	large	amount	to	James	or	Amschel?	“And	now,	dear	Nathan,”
wrote	James	in	a	typical	letter	of	1832,
I	am	starting	once	again	to	busy	myself	with	the	bills	of	exchange	business,	and
beg	you	to	evaluate	[precisely]	what	you	are	sending	us.	We	are	buying	London
here	at	25.65	francs	and	3	per	cent	[which]	is	equal	to	25.84½	francs	and	you
send	us	£21,000	Parisian	at	26.07½	[and]	4	per	cent,	which	is	equal	to	25.79,
that	is	a	loss	of	a	fifth	without	the	brokerage.	Well,	I	am	only	bringing	this	to
your	attention	because	we	don’t	want	to	operate	at	a	loss	when	dealing	with	the
bills	of	exchange.
This	gives	a	flavour	of	the	complex	calculations	involved,	and	the	very	narrow
differentials	the	brothers	sought	to	exploit.	As	a	multinational	partnership,	they
were	uniquely	positioned	to	do	such	business.
Yet	the	Rothschilds	were	not	as	dominant	in	the	market	for	bills	as	they	were
in	the	market	for	bonds.	In	his	influential	survey	of	the	City,	
Lombard	Street
,
Walter	Bagehot	called	them	“the	greatest	.	.	.	of	the	foreign	bill-brokers”;	but	this
accolade	properly	belonged	to	the	Barings.	In	1825	Nathan’s	acceptances
totalled	£300,000	compared	with	£520,000	for	Baring	Brothers.	Twenty-five
years	later,	acceptances	at	New	Court	had	risen	to	£540,000,	but	the	figure	for
the	Barings	was	£1.9	million;	and	the	gap	widened	still	further	in	the	second	half
of	the	century,	when	new-comers	like	the	Kleinworts	made	the	running.	Apart
from	the	obvious	fact	that	the	Rothschilds	put	government	finance	first—it	is
almost	invariably	discussed	before	commercial	business	in	the	brothers’	private
correspondence—this	primarily	reflected	the	fact	that	the	greater	part	of	the	bills
business	was	generated	by	transatlantic	trade,	rather	than	by	trade	between
Britain	and	continental	Europe,	which	the	Rothschilds	were	better	placed	to
finance.	As	we	shall	see,	there	were	attempts	to	increase	the	Rothschild	share	of
the	American	market,	but	they	were	only	fitful;	throughout	the	first	half	of	the
nineteenth	century,	the	Barings	had	the	upper	hand	there.
Bill-broking	led	naturally	into	numerous	connected	avenues	of	activity.	One	of
the	most	important	of	these,	from	an	early	date,	was	the	international	bullion
market.	As	Nathan	stated	in	his	1832	testimony,	there	was	often	a	gap	between
the	total	volume	of	bills	representing	British	imports	and	those	representing
exports;	in	the	terms	of	contemporary	classical	economics,	a	trade	deficit	or
surplus	automatically	necessitated	a	movement	of	specie	out	of	or	into	London
provided	it	was	big	enough	to	pay	the	cost	of	shipping	and	insuring	specie,	as
well	as	melting	and	re-minting	if	necessary.	When	the	exchange	rate	reached	the

--- Page 375 ---
so-called	“gold	points”	it	paid	to	import	or	export	gold	(or	silver	in	some
countries).	For	the	Rothschilds,	transfers	of	gold	from	England	to	the	continent
had	been	a	vital	stepping	stone	towards	direct	involvement	in	English	war
finance	before	1815,	and	the	brothers	never	lost	their	interest	in	the	bullion
business,	doing	substantial	amounts	of	business	with	the	Bank	of	England	and
the	Banque	de	France.	This	was	what	Nathan	alluded	to	when	he	loftily	told	a
Hamburg	house:	“My	business	.	.	.	consists	entirely	
in	Government	transactions
&	Bank	operations.”	Here	too	complex	calculations	were	involved,	especially
when	coins	were	being	melted	down	into	bars	to	be	re-minted	in	another	market.
“And	now,	dear	Nathan,”	wrote	James	in	another	typical	letter,	“[when	thinking
of	buying]	silver	at	11	grain	gold,	where	you	can	consider	the	rest	as	profit,	a	lot
will	depend	on	the	assay,	for	½	grain	is	equivalent	to	⅞	per	cent.	Well,	at	591/8,
this	is	equivalent	to	25.82	francs,	and	one	has	the	chance	here	to	make	a	profit
when	it	is	being	assayed,	and	I	therefore	strongly	urge	you	not	to	let	the
opportunity	pass	by.”	“The	van	loaded	with	silver	ingots”	which	blocked	Prince
Pückler’s	access	to	New	Court	was	no	rare	sight:	to	judge	by	the	brothers’
letters,	consignments	of	bullion	worth	tens	of	thousands	of	pounds	regularly
passed	between	Paris	and	London.
Another	related	field	of	activity	was	direct	involvement	in	commodity	trade
itself.	Buying	and	selling	goods	rather	than	paper	had,	of	course,	been	an	integral
part	of	Mayer	Amschel’s	business,	and	Nathan	himself	had	begun	his	career	in
Britain	as	a	textile	merchant,	later	branching	out	into	“colonial	goods.”	However,
to	judge	by	the	partners’	correspondence,	the	Rothschilds’	interest	in	such
business	appears	to	have	dwindled	in	the	1820s,	and	it	was	not	until	after	1830
that	it	revived.	Unlike	the	Barings,	who	dealt	in	a	wide	range	of	traded	goods,
the	Rothschilds	preferred	to	specialise,	aiming	to	establish	a	dominant	role	in	a
select	number	of	markets.	The	key	commodities	which	attracted	their	attention
were	cotton,	tobacco,	sugar	(primarily	from	America	and	the	Caribbean),	copper
(from	Russia),	and,	most	importantly,	mercury	(from	Spain).	More	will	be	said
about	these	below.	Very	occasionally	they	dabbled	in	other	goods:	iron,	wool	and
wine,	for	example.	The	hostile	cartoonist	who	portrayed	“Blauschild”	as	a
travelling	salesman	doing	business	“in	all	branches	of	commerce”	was	therefore
in	error:	the	Rothschilds	were	never	jacks-of-all-trades	(see	illustration	10.vii).
To	give	one	example:	although	their	relatives	the	Worms	brothers	established	a
tea	plantation	in	Ceylon—which	they	even	named	“Rothschild”—the	bank	never
seriously	involved	itself	in	the	tea	trade.
The	final	area	of	business	which	the	Rothschilds	entered	as	a	result	of	their

--- Page 376 ---
mercantile	activities	was	insurance.	The	first	half	of	the	nineteenth	century	saw	a
boom	in	insurance,	with	numerous	companies	being	founded	in	London	and
elsewhere.	Nathan’s	involvement	in	the	founding	of	the	Alliance	Assurance
Company	in	1824—the	only	joint-stock	company	in	which	he	ever	took	a
serious	interest—has	been	variously	explained,	but	never	satisfactorily.
According	to	the	company’s	official	history,	it	was	the	result	of	a	casual	meeting
with	his	brother-in-law	Moses	Montefiore;	others	have	suggested	that	the	aim
was	partly	to	provide	employment	as	an	actuary	for	their	relative	Benjamin
Gompertz,	an	accomplished	mathematician.	A	third	hypothesis	advanced	is	that
the	existing	insurance	companies	had	been	discriminating	against	the	Jewish
business	community.	In	fact,	the	Rothschilds	had	been	interested	in	insurance	for
some	years,	understandably	in	view	of	the	high	premiums	they	themselves	had
been	obliged	to	pay	to	insure	shipments	to	the	continent	before	1815.	As	early	as
1817	James	was	able	to	report	“quite	nice	profits”	from	an	unidentified	French
insurance	company.	In	1823	a	further	impetus	was	provided	by	a	request	for
assistance	from	the	Duke	of	Saxe-Coburg,	whose	applications	for	a	new	life
insurance	policy	had	been	rejected	by	two	existing	London	companies,	including
the	recently	founded	Guardian.	Above	all,	Nathan	seems	to	have	
wanted	to	break
the	cartel	of	Lloyd’s	(located	directly	above	him	on	the	first	floor	of	the	Royal
Exchange),	the	London	Assurance	and	the	Royal	Exchange	which	monopolised
marine	insurance	in	London.	Just	days	after	the	“Alliance	British	and	Foreign
Life	and	Fire	Assurance	Company”	had	been	established	with	a	capital	of	£5
million,	the	MP	Thomas	Fowell	Buxton,	one	of	the	new	company’s	auditors,
introduced	a	bill	into	the	House	of	Commons	to	end	the	monopoly	of	marine
insurance.	At	the	same	time,	Nathan	sought	to	enlist	the	support	of	his	old	friend
Herries	(then	Financial	Secretary	to	the	Treasury).	“The	object	of	this	Society,”
he	wrote,	adopting	the	characteristic	puffing	rhetoric	of	the	1820s	joint	stock
bubble,
is	to	promote	all	kinds	of	national	industry,	by	affording	facilities	in	the
advancement	of	Capital,	and	to	protect	Commercial	men	and	society	in	general
by	granting	insurancies	[
sic
]	on	shipping	and	every	species	of	property	exposed
to	risks.	There	are	other	ends,	equally	salutary,	towards	which	the	views	of	the
Company	will	be	directed,	all	tending	to	give	an	impetus	to	manufactures,	and	to
attract	and	retain	in	their	ports	every	branch	of	foreign	commerce.
This	is	.	.	.	the	policy	.	.	.	of	the	whole	European	Continent	at	the	present
moment:	everywhere,	efforts	are	[afoot]	to	introduce	a	spirit	of	commercial
enterprise,	to	revive	trade	where	it	has	languished,	and	to	discover	new	channels

--- Page 377 ---
in	which	it	may	be	directed	.	.	.	[I]	request	you	
will	bring	this	subject	before	the
consideration	of	my	Lord	Liverpool,	who	will	no	doubt	perceive	in	these	facts
additional	grounds	for	persevering	in	that	liberal	principle	upon	which	His
Majesty’s	Government	has	acted,	by	removing	every	obstacle	in	the	way	of	an
open,	free	and	unrestricted	trade.
10.vii:	I.	Nussgieg,	after	G.	Geissler,
	
Der	Musterreiter
	
(1825).
This	was	a	well-judged	appeal	to	the	economic	liberalism	of	the	government;	but
then	came	the	crux	of	the	matter.	According	to	Nathan,	the	existing	marine
insurance	companies	lacked:
that	energy	and	those	liberal	extended	views	which	are	necessary,	at	the	present
day,	to	retain	the	advantages	which	they	have	hitherto	monopolised,	and	I	am
sure	I	shall	be	borne	out	in	the	assertion	that	if	insurancies	are	to	be	tied	up	by
their	old	fashioned	modes	of	thinking	and	acting,	Establishments	of	a	similar
nature	will	arise	in	every	part	of	the	Continent,	and	will	eventually	wrest	from
their	hands	the	business	which	they	now	conduct	exclusively.

--- Page 378 ---
The	government	was	evidently	persuaded,	for	the	bill	received	the	royal	assent
in	June.	However,	one	of	the	new	company’s	shareholders	(who	was	also	an
underwriter	at	Lloyd’s)	managed	to	obtain	an	injunction	to	restrain	the	Alliance
from	becoming	involved	in	marine	insurance	on	the	ground	that	this	went
beyond	its	original	objects.	As	a	result,	a	second	company	had	to	be	created,	the
“Alliance	Marine	Assurance	Company,”	also	with	capital	of	£5	million.
The	Rothschilds’	new	incarnation	as	insurers	was	initially	greeted	with	some
public	scepticism.	A	contemporary	cartoon	(
A	New	Court	Fire	Screen
,	by	“an
Amateur”)	depicts	a	stagecoach	loaded	with	a	group	of	country	investors	and
their	bags	of	money	drawing	up	in	front	of	the	“Hollow	Alliance	Fire	and	Life
Preserving	Office”	(see	illustration	10.viii).	The	office	has	three	entrances:	one
marked	“German	Porter’s	Lodge,”	one	marked	“English	Porter’s	Lodge”	and
one	in	the	middle,	in	front	of	which	three	men	(Rothschild,	Montefiore	and
Gompertz)	converse	in	French.	Nathan	declares,	“Ma	fois,	c’est	entre	nous,”
Montefiore	replies,	“C’est	bien	fait	pour	mon	beau	père,”	and	Gompertz	mutters,
“Experience	makes	men	wiser.”	Another	sign	to	the	left	reads	“No	Holidays
except	Dog	Days	and	the	Fifth	of	November,”	while	on	the	other	side	the	office
hours	are	stated:	“From	Sun	rise	to	Moonshine.”	Above	the	middle	door	there	is
a	notice:	“No	Persons	to	be	admitted	but	those	with	empty	heads	and	full
pockets.”	The	English	porter	tells	the	newly	arrived	investors:	“No!	All	full	at	a
premium,”	but	his	German	counterpart	cries,	“No!	No!	Open	your	door	in	order
to	get	plenty	of	room	to	
take	in
	our	Gentry	Friends.”
Yet	this	cynical	assessment	was	unfounded.	Unlike	so	many	of	the	joint-stock
companies	of	the	period,	the	Alliance	was	no	mere	vehicle	for	mulcting	naive
investors,	but	a	securely	founded	enterprise	with	a	long	and	prosperous	future
ahead	of	it.	After	two	years	at	4	New	Court,	next	door	to	Rothschilds,	it	moved
to	Bartholomew	Lane.	Nor	was	this	the	only	Rothschild	foray	into	insurance.	In
1839	they	became	involved	(albeit	less	directly)	in	the	rapidly	developing
Rhineland	market,	lending	their	support	to	the	Colonia	fire	insurance	company
set	up	by	the	Oppenheims	and	others.	This	connection	survived	the	turbulent
events	of	the	1840s	(in	particular	the	great	Hamburg	fire	of	1842,	which	all	but
exhausted	
the	company’s	resources),	and	in	1852	the	London,	Frankfurt	and
Paris	houses	were	involved	again	as	major	shareholders	in	the	Cologne
Reinsurance	Society.

--- Page 379 ---
10.viii:	“An	Amateur,”
	
A	NEW	COURT	FIRE	SCREEN
	
(1824),	published	by
H.	Fores.
	
The	Rothschild	Network
The	ever-increasing	volume	of	the	Rothschilds’	business,	the	diversification	of
their	financial	activities	and	the	expanding	geographical	range	of	their	interests
inevitably	exceeded	the	capacities	of	five	brothers.	It	was	usually	possible	for
one	of	the	partners	to	make	personal	visits	to	Brussels,	the	Hague,	Berlin	or
Madrid	when	major	government	loans	were	being	negotiated.	But	if	they	wished
to	conduct	regular	business	in	those	capitals,	other	arrangements	had	to	be	made.
Similarly,	buying	and	selling	commodities	like	cotton,	tobacco,	sugar,	copper
and	mercury	were	impossible	without	effective	and	reliable	representation	in	the
key	markets:	New	York,	New	Orleans,	Havana,	St	Petersburg	and	Madrid.
Throughout	the	1820s	and	1830s	it	was	necessary	not	only	to	expand	the	number
of	partners	by	initiating	the	new	generation	into	the	management	of	the	five
houses,	but	also	to	increase	the	number	of	clerks	in	the	five	offices	and	to
establish	a	select	group	of	salaried	agents	employed	to	take	care	of	the	bank’s
interests	in	such	new	markets.	Radiating	out	from	London,	Paris,	Frankfurt,
Vienna	and	Naples,	the	lines	of	communication	with	these	agents	formed	a
complex	new	network,	greatly	increasing	the	volume	of	correspondence,	but	also

--- Page 380 ---
increasing	the	volume	of	business	which	could	be	done	in	the	name	of
Rothschild.	Nor	was	this	network	of	formal	influence	all;	of	comparable
importance	was	the	larger	but	looser	network	of	links	to	other	banks,	as	well	as
to	stockbrokers,	
central	banks	and	financial	newspapers.	If	every	individual	or
firm	which	conducted	regular	correspondence	with	the	Rothschilds	is	counted	as
a	part	of	their	network,	then	it	was	immense	indeed.
The	expansion	of	the	partnership	to	include	the	sons	of	Salomon,	Nathan,	Carl
and	finally	James	was	achieved	with	relatively	little	friction.	The	eldest	members
of	the	next	generation—Anselm	and	Lionel—seem	to	have	accepted	without
reservation	their	hereditary	vocation,	passing	without	complaint	through	the
successive	stages	of	a	Rothschild	apprenticeship:	work	in	the	paternal	house,
then	one	or	more	stints	in	an	uncle’s	house	and	finally	a	solo	foreign	mission.
Anselm	was	formally	made	a	partner	in	1826;	but	it	was	not	until	1830	that	the
brothers	had	sufficient	confidence	to	entrust	him	with	sensitive	negotiations	in
Berlin,	and	even	then	he	was	carefully	coached	beforehand	by	his	anxious	father,
who	gave	him	the	classic	Rothschild	advice	to	“listen	to	everything	and	say	little
in	reply”:
You	are	now	the	plenipotentiary	of	all	the	brothers	.	.	.	and	in	the	same	way	all
the	brothers	will	[have	to]	approve	everything,	as	fundamentally	the	business
entails	a	considerable	risk,	so	do	not	write	too	little	.	.	.	and	be	hard-working	and
busy	and	in	all	these	undertakings	put	your	reliance	in	the	Almighty,	who	will
give	you	luck	and	His	blessing.
In	fact,	it	was	not	long	before	Anselm	had	the	self-confidence	to	begin	asserting
his	notionally	equal	authority	as	a	partner.	Within	a	year	he	felt	sure	enough	of
himself	to	criticise	his	uncles’	investment	strategy	following	the	July	Revolution,
and	James	was	soon	asking	for	his	assistance	in	Paris	“as	he	really	has
character.”	This	was	perceptive:	when	the	next	and	far	greater	revolutionary
crisis	swept	across	Europe,	Anselm	would	play	a	decisive	role	in	limiting	the
damage	to	the	five	houses,	even	at	the	expense	of	his	own	father’s	feelings.
Nathan’s	eldest	son	Lionel	also	passed	through	his	apprenticeship	years	with
flying	colours.	In	1828	he	was	formally	“initiated	into	the	business”	when	he
was	appointed	“Lieutenant	General”	while	Nathan	travelled	to	Frankfurt	to	meet
his	brothers.	“You	are	now	the	General	all	on	your	own,”	wrote	James,	offering
avuncular	encouragement,	“and	you	will	no	doubt	attend	to	the	business	very
nicely.”	“Make	some	nice	business	deals,	like	a	man,”	he	added	a	few	days	later.
“Show	that	you	are	a	clever	and	good	businessman.”	Three	years	later,	as	he

--- Page 381 ---
struggled	to	remain	afloat	in	the	wake	of	the	1830	revolution,	James’s	tone	was
altogether	less	patronising:
Should	you,	dear	Nathan,	not	need	him	[Lionel]	you	know	how	much	pleasure	it
would	give	me	to	have	him	here	with	us.	It	is	always	better	to	work	in	pairs
rather	than	singly.	In	spite	of	our	unfortunately	doing	very	little	business	here,	it
is	nevertheless	always	useful	to	act	as	a	pair.	If	it	should	be	too	inconvenient	to
allow	him	to	come	here,	I	would	then	be	obliged	if	you	could	send	one	of	your
other	sons	here,	whom	I	always	treat	like	one	of	my	own	children.	I	hope	that
Lionel	has	no	reason	to	complain	about	me	and	that	he	will	return	here.
When	Lionel	was	sent	to	Brussels,	James	expressed	his	unease	at	being	left	“on
my	own”	in	Paris.	By	1833	Lionel	seemed	to	his	sister	a	“complete	man	of
business”:	“[He]	calls	to	pay	his	respects	in	the	morning	and	we	do	not	see	him
again	until	
dinner	at	7.”	His	trip	to	Madrid	in	1835	was	judged	a	success;	and	he
stepped	into	his	father’s	shoes	in	1836	apparently	without	difficulty.
By	contrast,	Lionel’s	younger	brothers	were	more	reluctant	bankers.	Anthony
had	to	cut	short	his	first	apprenticeship	in	Frankfurt	because	of	a	romantic
entanglement	of	which	his	father	disapproved,	and	harboured	an	intense	dislike
of	“that	stinking	place”	thereafter	(a	feeling	shared	by	his	brothers).	By
comparison	with	Paris	and	London,	Frankfurt	had	little	to	offer	in	the	way	of
fleshpots;	worse,	their	Uncle	Amschel	worked	longer	hours	than	his	nephews
were	used	to:	from	8	a.m.	to	7	p.m.,	six	days	a	week.	(Nathan	plainly	did	not
drive	his	sons	as	hard	as	he	had	once	driven	himself.)	Even	in	the	more
congenial	atmosphere	of	Paris,	Anthony	was	found	wanting.	As	James	put	it
tactfully,	although	he	was	“hard	working,”	he	failed	“to	bring	the	deals	which
after	all	will	remain	for	future	generations.”	His	uncles	tried	their	best.	James
encouraged	him	to	“observe	all	the	wheeling	and	dealing”	as	he	negotiated	a
major	contract;	Salomon	sought	to	“instil	in	him	a	degree	of	steeliness	which	on
the	one	hand	will	teach	the	young	man	not	to	be	too	quarrelsome,	and	on	the
other	hand,	not	to	be	too	tempestuous.”	But	Anthony	never	entirely	lost	his
unreliable	reputation:	as	late	as	1840	his	brother	Nat	felt	obliged	to	protest	at	the
“very	coarse	language”	of	his	letters.	“I	do	not	like	him	to	write	to	me	exactly	as
if	I	were	his	servant,”	he	complained	to	Lionel.	“I	do	not	think	I	am	touchy	but
there	is	a	way	of	saying	things	which	is	particularly	offensive	and	our	good
brother	Billy	[Anthony’s	nickname]	sometimes	adopts	that	way.”
Nat	had	an	altogether	more	placid	temperament	than	Anthony,	but	he	too
seems	to	have	chafed	at	the	constraints	of	his	apprenticeship.	“You	must	know,”

--- Page 382 ---
he	confided	in	his	sister	Charlotte,	“that	I	have	been	about	a	month	in	London,	I
go	regularly	to	the	counting	house	with	Papa	&	try	as	much	as	possible	to
become	an	accomplished	man	of	business	which	however	I	find	rather	a	difficult
thing	to	do.”	When	he	was	sent	to	Naples	he	liked	it	even	less,	as	he	complained
to	his	brother	Lionel:
I	have	now	rather	a	tender	subject	to	touch	upon,	namely	myself.	I	have
frequently	written	to	you	my	great	dislike	of	Naples	which	I	assure	you	increases
every	day,	I	assure	you	however	I	should	not	mind	that	at	all,	but	then	I	am
afraid	I	am	of	no	service	&	that	I	should	be	much	better	employed	in	London
where	I	certainly	might	learn	business	in	about	a	twentieth	of	the	time	&	twenty
times	as	well	as	here	.	.	.	[D]o	my	dearest	Rabbi	write	to	Papa	&	tell	him	to	let	us
come	home.
In	the	end,	it	was	once	again	James	who	took	charge,	putting	Nat	through	a
thorough	year’s	training	“just	like	any	other	apprentice,	to	enable	him	to	learn
how	to	keep	the	books	in	order.”	Nat	was,	he	assured	Nathan,	“a	very	nice	boy	.	.
.	and	I	can	guarantee	you	that,	if	he	is	prepared	to	listen,	he	will	become	the	most
skilful	of	all.”	Indeed,	Nat	seems	to	have	become	James’s	favourite	nephew:
soon	he	was	talking	of	“teaching	the	good	young	man	all	that	I	know.”	By	1833
he	felt	his	protégé	was	ready	for	a	foreign	mission,	though	the	choice	of
destination—Constantinople,	during	the	prolonged	Greek	loan	wrangle—was
probably	not	a	wise	one.	Ultimately,	it	was	Nat’s	fate	to	live	and	work	almost	all
his	life	in	his	Parisian	uncle’s	shadow,	never	quite	ceasing	to	be	a	disgruntled
English	gentleman	in	exile,	constantly	dismayed	by	the	political	volatility	of	the
French,	and	quietly	counting	the	long	hours	he	had	to	spend	in	“the	stinking
counting	house.”
Why,	when	they	had	so	many	sons—twelve	in	all—did	Nathan	and	his
brothers	not	follow	their	father’s	example	and	establish	at	least	some	of	them	in
new	financial	centres?	This	is	not	easy	to	answer.	While	their	sons	were	still
young,	the	brothers	seem	to	have	thought	of	establishing	new	houses	in	Madrid
or	St	Petersburg.	And	later	there	was	intermittent	talk	of	sending	one	of	the
members	of	the	younger	generation	to	the	United	States.	But	the	plan	for	a	“sixth
house”	on	the	other	side	of	the	Atlantic	remained	no	more	than	a	pipe-dream.
The	best	explanation	for	this	is	that	they	trusted	five	of	their	sons—Anselm,
Lionel,	Mayer	Carl,	Adolph	and	Alphonse	—enough	to	groom	them	as	their
successors,	but	the	others	insufficiently	to	give	them	the	major	responsibility	of
setting	up	new	houses.	For	if	Anthony	and	Nat	seemed	to	lack	the	spark	of

--- Page 383 ---
financial	ability	and	dedication	their	uncles	were	looking	for,	they	were	at	least
competent	by	comparison	with	Nathan’s	youngest	son	Mayer,	a	would-be
country	squire,	or	the	Orthodox	zealot	Wilhelm	Carl.	Another	obstacle	appears
to	have	been	Nathan’s	widow	Hannah,	who	resolutely	refused	to	allow	her
younger	sons	to	be	posted	overseas.
Instead,	the	Rothschilds	had	to	rely	on	a	small	group	of	paid	agents.	Of
course,	since	the	very	early	days	in	the	Judengasse	there	had	always	been	non-
family	members	employed	as	clerks.	We	know	little	about	these	shadowy	letter-
writers	and	bookkeepers,	save	that	the	partners	preferred	to	exclude	them	from
executive	activity:	they	were	regarded	as	drones,	to	be	worked	hard,	treated	well
—and	watched	carefully.	Some	were	little	more	than	servants,	like	the	cheerful
Jakob	who	was	injured	in	a	coach	crash	in	1814	while	delivering	a	consignment
of	gold	to	Warsaw	(“better	to	be	hurt	in	the	legs	than	hurt	in	the	gold,”	he	joked).
Others	were	skilled	linguists	and	accountants.	In	1818	there	were	at	least	nine
clerks	in	the	Frankfurt	office:	Radius	and	Kremm,	who	were	responsible	for	the
book-keeping;	Berend,	who	conducted	the	correspondence	and	ledger	for	all
Frankfurt	transactions;	Geiger,	who	also	handled	Frankfurt	business	and	matters
relating	to	coupons;	his	father,	who	dealt	with	current	accounts;	Hamburg,	who
conducted	all	correspondence	with	titled	customers;	his	brother,	who	dealt	with
foreign	letters;	Heisler,	who	looked	after	bills	of	exchange;	and	Kaiser,	who	took
care	of	domestic	matters.	There	was	also	an	office	boy	in	the	accounts
department	and	an	apprentice	letter-copier.	To	Carl,	however,	they	were	all	“the
young	people,”	and	when	he	contemplated	the	running	costs	of	the	office
(150,000	gulden	a	year,	or	around	£14,000),	he	suspected	them	of	“trickery”—
remembering,	no	doubt,	his	father’s	experience	with	Hirsch	Liebmann.	The	Paris
house	was	even	smaller	(and	cheaper):	at	around	the	same	time,	James	estimated
that	he	spent	34,000	francs	a	year	(£1,700)	on	eight	clerks,	a	porter,	a	messenger,
two	servants	and	a	coachman.
Often	the	clerks	were	drawn	from	extended	families	similar	to	the
Rothschilds’.	In	Vienna,	a	key	role	was	played	by	the	Goldschmidt	family,	which
included	Salomon’s	chief	clerk	Moritz	Goldschmidt,	who	had	moved	from
Frankfurt	to	Vienna	with	Salomon	in	1803,	and	his	sons	Julius,	Jacob	and
Alexander,	who	worked	in	Vienna,	Frankfurt	and	Paris	respectively.	Relations	of
the	Goldschmidts	were	also	regarded	as	trustworthy:	one	of	Moritz’s	nephews
worked	for	Rothschilds	in	Amsterdam,	but	died	young.	Another	nephew
(Moritz)	worked	at	the	London	house	for	eighteen	years,	while	a	third	(Ignaz
Bauer)	was	sent	to	Spain	to	assist	Weisweiller.

--- Page 384 ---
Inevitably,	the	numbers	of	staff	had	to	be	increased	to	keep	pace	with	the
amount	of	business,	so	that	by	the	1830s	New	Court	alone	employed	between
thirty	and	forty	people,	earning	between	£50	and	£500	a	year.	But	the
paternalistic	attitudes	of	the	partners	persisted.	“Pray	let	the	Clerks	have	a	good
dinner,”	wrote	Lionel	on	the	occasion	of	his	wedding	in	1836,	“and	get	all	drunk
or	if	they	like	.	.	.	I	think	they	might	make	a	party	to	Greenwich;	if	some	of	them
are	too	proud,	let	them	make	two	parties	and	take	their	better	halves	with
[them].”	The	nearest	thing	to	an	incentive	was	that	“on	our	becoming	the
contractors	of	an	English	and	foreign	loan	[we]	generally	allowed	the	clerks	a
small	interest	independent	of	a	gratuity	at	Christmas	which	of	late	years	we	have
allowed	them.”	When	it	became	apparent	that	both	Nat	and	Anthony	might	have
to	leave	their	posts	in	London	and	Paris	to	attend	their	father’s	deathbed,	there
was	consternation:	for	the	first	time	ever,	it	was	necessary	to	give	the	senior
clerks	in	both	houses	powers	of	attorney,	a	responsibility	which	had	previously
been	conferred	only	on	members	of	the	family.	In	the	case	of	London,	there	was
some	doubt	about	who	should	actually	be	appointed,	suggesting	the	absence	of
any	formal	hierarchy	within	the	office.	Part	of	the	problem	was	that	Nathan’s
monopoly	over	executive	decision-making	had	encouraged	a	degree	of	indolence
among	his	own	employees,	who	were	spared	difficult	decisions	and	all	but
guaranteed	bonuses.
This	explains	the	great	difficulty	the	Rothschilds	experienced	when	they	had
to	entrust	their	interests	in	remote	cities	like	Madrid,	St	Petersburg	or	New	York
to	men	who	had	generally	begun	their	careers	as	clerks.	For	inevitably	these
agents	could	not	be	treated	as	mere	office-boys,	subject	to	daily	orders	from	the
partners	and	denied	all	real	responsibility.	No	matter	how	many	letters	were	sent
from	New	Court,	the	men	on	the	ground	were	bound	to	be	better	informed	about
the	places	where	they	lived.	Sometimes	they	had	to	take	decisions	quickly,	so
that	consultation	with	London	or	Paris	could	only	be	retrospective.	And	no
matter	how	often	it	was	asserted	that	they	were	mere	agents	of	the	great
Rothschilds,	they	naturally	acquired	considerable	local	status	in	their	own	right,
disposing	as	they	did	over	substantial	resources.	All	this	the	Rothschilds	found
extremely	hard	to	stomach.	They	constantly	suspected	their	most	valuable	agents
of	disloyalty—above	all,	of	trading	on	their	own	account—and	complained
endlessly	of	their	insolence,	independence	and	incompetence.	“I	noticed	that
Gasser	[the	St	Petersburg	agent]	has	no	interest	at	all	in	our	business	affairs,”
James	wrote	to	Nathan	in	1829	on	hearing	of	a	large	consignment	of	silver
bound	for	Russia:

--- Page 385 ---
Another	man,	realising	that	so	much	silver	is	due	to	arrive,	would	say,	“I	will
meanwhile	send	you	a	remittance,”	but	no,	nothing	of	the	kind	occurred	to	him.
He	wrote	to	me	and	enquired	whether	I	wanted	to	make	with	him	c/meta	[a	joint
account]	for	three	months	which	would	give	him	more	courage	to	operate.	Well,
we	will	have	to	send	one	of	our	own	people	over	there,	someone	who	shows
greater	loyalty	to	our	House.	Well,	thank	God,	you	will	soon	have	grown	up
sons.
Gasser	was	repeatedly	the	target	of	such	criticism.	In	1838	James	threatened
to	stop	paying	his	salary	(14,000	roubles	a	year),	which	he	considered	excessive,
instead	paying	him	a	quarter	per	cent	of	“whatever	business	we	do	with	him.”	As
so	often,	the	charge	was	that	Gasser	was	putting	his	own	interests	before	those	of
the	
firm.	“Under	no	circumstances	should	you	write	even	a	single	word	to
Gasser,”	fumed	James	a	year	later.	“That	stiff	dog,	who	is	only	too	glad	to	hold
on	to	your	money	at	no	cost	to	himself,	is	doing	you	more	harm	than	any	good
he	could	possibly	render.”	Even	Lazare	Richtenberger—established	in	Brussels
in	1832	as	the	first	fully	fledged	Rothschild	agent—was	occasionally	dismissed
as	an	“ass.”	Despite	his	proximity	and	punctilious	subservience,	even	he
sometimes	made	the	mistake	of	acting	in	advance	of	James’s	instructions.
Perhaps	the	most	important	Rothschild	agent	in	the	1830s	was	Daniel
Weisweiller,	their	man	in	Madrid,	whose	name	was	first	discussed	for	the	job	in
1834.	Weisweiller	had	apparently	won	a	reputation	as	a	“businessman”	in	the
Frankfurt	office,	and	his	correspondence	over	the	years	was	detailed	to	a	fault.
But	it	was	not	long	before	he	too	was	suspected	of	neglecting	his	masters’
interests.	By	1843	there	was	even	talk	of	replacing	“that	young	man,	whose
pretensions	[according	to	Anselm]	become	more	unagreeable	[
sic
]	every	year”:
I	think	really	the	man	is	half	cracked	&	fancies	himself	of	the	highest	importance
.	.	.	By	today’s	post	I	shall	.	.	.	write	to	my	father	about	Landau	that	he	may
prepare	himself	for	Madrid	.	.	.	[T]he	best	were	[if]	one	of	us	could	or	would	go
to	Madrid	.	.	.	but	you	may	rely	that	I	shall	not	mention	Mayer	in	my	letter	to
London	as	your	good	Mama	wishes	him	to	remain	in	England.	I	think	Landau
will	do	very	well	in	Madrid	when	once	he	knows	the	terrain,	he	is	very	clear	.	.	.
[and,]	belonging	to	a	very	respectable	family[,]	he	will	never	express	such
ridiculous	preten	tions	[
sic
]	as	Weisweiller	does	&	will	not	fail	to	continue
doing.
Such	threats	were	idle.	Weisweiller	might	possess	“a	triple	dose	of	vanity,”	but
he	had	made	himself	more	or	less	indispensable.	Thus	it	was	decided	to	send

--- Page 386 ---
Mayer	to	Madrid	only	for	the	few	months	when	Weisweiller	was	abroad	getting
married:	as	Nat	put	it,	“Weisweiller’s	absence	will	oblige	Tup	[Mayer’s
nickname]	to	exert	himself	&	will	enable	him	at	once	to	be	master,	whilst	later
W.	will	be	there	&	it	wd	not	be	so	easy	for	Mayer	to	put	him	immediately	in	his
proper	position.”	When	Anthony	sought	to	bring	Weisweiller	to	heel,	he	made
little	headway:
He	complained	as	usual	and	was	as	cold	as	ice,	until	I	told	him	in	plain	terms
that	as	long	as	he	did	our	business	in	Madrid	to	our	satisfaction,	we	would	make
no	change,	but	if	he	went	on	giving	himself	airs	and	thought	our	gratitude
insufficient,	it	would	be	impossible	for	him	to	stay	in	Madrid	and	one	of	us
would	be	obliged	to	go	hitherto	[
sic
]	.	.	.	He	is	an	uncommonly	clever	agent	and
it	would	be	difficult	to	replace	him,	but	I	have	seldom	or	never	seen	a	more
disagreeable	cold	hearted	calculating	agent.	His	vanity	is	excessive.
Instead,	another	agent,	Hanau,	was	sent	to	the	United	States,	where	he	almost
immediately	incurred	the	partners’	irritation	by	over-hasty	dealings—though	one
suspects	that,	if	he	had	taken	more	time	to	learn	the	ropes,	he	would	have	been
criticised	for	idling.	Only	the	Rothschilds	could	have	found	fault	with	an	agent
for	“directing	too	much	of	his	attention	towards	finding	out	all	the	business	he
could	for	us.”
To	correct	a	long-standing	misapprehension,	it	is	important	to	distinguish
between	salaried	agents	like	Weisweiller	and	associated	banks	with	whom	the
Rothschilds	corresponded	regularly	and	did	business	on	a	preferential	basis.	To
list	all	these	would	be	tedious:	by	the	end	of	the	1840s	the	Rothschilds	had	such
associates	in	Amsterdam,	Baltimore,	Berlin,	Cologne,	Constantinople,	Florence,
Hamburg,	Milan,	Odessa,	Rome	and	Trieste,	to	name	just	some	of	the	more
important.	Two	famous	German	banking	names	are	sometimes	erroneously	said
to	have	been	Rothschild	agents	in	their	early	years:	Warburg	and	Bleichröder.	In
fact,	they	were	merely	two	of	these	many	associates,	and	before	1848	there	was
nothing	unusual	about	the	modest	role	they	played	in	the	bank’s	network.
Nevertheless,	the	two	cases	are	of	interest	because	they	illustrate	how	much
value	smaller	banks	(especially	in	Germany)	attached	to	establishing	some	sort
of	connection—however	tenuous—with	the	Rothschilds.
The	Warburgs	began	lobbying	for	Rothschild	business	in	Hamburg	as	early	as
1814,	though	regular	dealings	were	not	established	until	the	1830s,	and
preference	continued	to	be	given	to	Carl	Heine	(the	poet	Heinrich’s	uncle)	until
the	1860s.
6
	
In	much	the	same	way,	Samuel	Bleichröder	attempted	to	supplant	the

--- Page 387 ---
Mendelssohns	as	the	Rothschilds’	favoured	banker	in	Berlin;	again,	despite
much	sycophancy,	it	was	not	until	the	1860s	that	his	son	Gerson	was	accorded
any	special	status,	largely	on	account	of	his	proximity	to	Bismarck	and	the	good-
quality	political	news	this	enabled	him	to	provide.	Even	then,	he	continued	to	be
treated	with	a	measure	of	disdain:	“Bleichröder?”	James	was	heard	to	exclaim	to
Herbert	Bismarck.	“What	is	Bleichröder?	Bleichröder	is	the	one	per	cent	I	let
him	have.”	Many	other	banks	performed	the	same	role	in	the	Rothschilds’
operations,	participating	in	major	bond	issues,	helping	to	facilitate	large	bullion
transfers	and	engaging	in	occasional	arbitrage	transactions:	the	Oppenheims	in
Cologne,	the	Schröders	in	London	and	the	Banque	de	Bordeaux,	to	name	just
three.	At	this	stage	in	their	histories,	all	were	minor	players.
By	comparison,	the	Rothschilds	had	much	more	time	for	those	larger	banks
whom	they	regarded	primarily	as	rivals,	but	whose	co-operation	they	sometimes
sought	for	very	large	operations:	the	Barings,	Thomas	Wilson	and	Goldschmidt
in	London;	Laffitte,	Hottinguer	and	Mallet	in	Paris;	Geymüller,	Sina	and	Eskeles
in	Vienna;	and	Bethmann	and	Gontard	in	Frankfurt.	Far	from	wishing	such
competitors	ill—as	they	had	in	the	decade	of	cut-throat	competition	after	1814—
the	Rothschilds	increasingly	came	to	see	their	existence	as	complementary,	so
long	as	their	own	position	as	
primus	inter	pares
	remained	unchallenged.	The
1830s	and	1840s	saw	the	emergence	of	informal	syndicates	and	shifting
coalitions	of	banks	in	all	the	major	financial	centres.	At	the	same	time,	by	dint	of
their	size,	the	Rothschilds	came	to	see	themselves	as	bearing	a	degree	of
responsibility	for	the	stability	of	the	banking	system	as	a	whole.	This	explains
their	reluctance	to	see	their	rivals	fail.	In	the	1820s	they	had	watched	the
collapse	of	Parish	with	almost	callous	indifference.	In	the	subsequent	decades,
by	contrast,	they	were	occasionally	willing,	for	the	sake	of	financial	stability,	to
come	to	their	competitors’	rescue,	as	in	the	case	of	Laffitte	in	1831	and	1838.
Salomon’s	arguments	for	assisting	Geymüller	in	1841	are	illuminating:
To	sit	back	and	watch	the	bankruptcy	of	a	man	of	65	years—of	a	house	which
has	existed	for	so	long,	a	house	which	was	in	the	first	rank	here—and	not	to	be
able	to	help	.	.	.	
was	just	impossible
	.	.	.	If	Steiner	and	Geymüller	do	have	to	stop
their	payments,	what	a	spectacle	it	would	be,	
what	an	impression	it	would	make
abroad,	as	well	as	in	Frankfurt	and	other	German	markets,	because	several
million—as	many	as	3	or	4	million—gulden	of	acceptances	and	bills	would	be
turned	away	from	both	these	houses.
In	this	case,	Salomon	was	overruled	by	his	brothers	and	nephews.	But	his

--- Page 388 ---
sense	of	responsibility	for	financial	stability	
in	general
	also	informed	Lionel’s
atttitude	to	the	protracted	debate	on	monetary	policy	in	England.	In	1839	he
reported	to	his	uncle	on	“the	measures	to	be	enacted	with	regard	to	the	joint
stock	banks”	(a	new	generation	of	which	had	proliferated	since	the	mid-1820s)
and	their	likely	“effect	upon	our	internal	money	concerns.”	“The	question,”	as	he
put	it,	“is	how	to	keep	these	gentlemen	from	getting	too	fat	and	getting
themselves	and	the	country	into	scrapes	without	too	much	cramping	the
circulation.”
In	all	this,	the	Rothschilds	were	increasingly	beginning	to	think	in	a	way
fundamentally	similar	to	that	characteristic	of	central	bankers.	This	is	scarcely	to
be	wondered	at.	In	the	first	half	of	the	nineteenth	century,	the	central	banks	of
England	and	France	continued	to	be	partly	private	institutions,	albeit	with
evolving	public	responsibilities	governed	by	statute.	In	terms	of	their	financial
resources,	they	were	in	fact	the	only	banks	comparable	with	the	Rothschilds,
though	of	course	they	were	national	where	the	Rothschilds	were	international,
and	the	Rothschilds	had	no	interest	in	resisting	their	monopolisation	of	note-
issue.	The	relationships	between	the	Rothschilds	and	the	European	central	banks
were	thus	almost	always	close	and	sometimes	symbiotic.	We	have	already	seen
how	Nathan	made	use	of	the	Bank	of	England	for	short-term	loans	during	the
1820s;	how,	in	return,	he	had	come	to	its	rescue	in	1825;	and	how	it	had
provided	the	advances	of	bullion	needed	to	bail	out	James	in	1830.	Small
wonder	his	evidence	to	the	1832	Bank	Committee	was	so	positive:	“I	feel	the
management	and	I	know	that	it	is	good.”	After	the	1830-32	crisis,	James	appears
to	have	been	on	a	similar	footing	with	the	Banque	de	France;	and	Salomon’s
relations	with	the	Austrian	Nationalbank	were	even	closer.
	
’Change
In	1836	James	gave	his	nephews	some	advice	about	how	to	sell	securities	on	the
Paris	stock	exchange:
When	you	are	buying	or	selling	rentes,	try	not	to	look	at	making	a	profit,	but
rather	your	aim	should	be	to	get	the	brokers	used	to	the	idea	that	they	need	to
come	to	you	.	.	.	[O]ne	initially	has	to	make	some	sacrifices	so	that	the	people
then	get	used	to	the	idea	to	come	to	you,	my	dear	nephews,	and	as	such	one	first
has	to	spread	the	sugar	about	in	order	to	catch	the	birds	later	on.
It	is	easy	for	the	historian	to	lose	sight	of	that	throng	of	brokers	attracted	by	the
Rothschild	“sugar,”	for	the	simple	reason	that	most	of	their	dealings	were

--- Page 389 ---
conducted	orally	rather	than	by	correspondence.	Yet	the	brokers	were	the
indispensable	worker-ants	of	nineteenth-century	finance.	As	with	the	banks	they
dealt	with,	the	Rothschilds	had	their	favourites:	Menet	&	Cazenove	in	London,
for	example,	who	sold	foreign	stocks	amounting	to	£2	million	for	Rothschilds	in
1834	alone,	and	£1.4	million	the	following	year;	and	the	partnership	founded	by
John	Helbert	Israel	and	his	
nephew	John	Wagg.	However,	even	these	were
treated	rather	in	the	manner	of	casually	hired	grouse-beaters:	Alfred	Wagg
recalled	how	“on	the	fortnightly	settlement	days	my	grandfather	or	father	would
go	over	to	New	Court	with	a	statement	of	the	position	across	which	Baron
Lionel	would	write	£500	or	£1,000,	being	an	arbitrary	fee	which	he	fixed	as	our
renumeration,	varying	in	amount	according	to	the	humour	he	was	in.”	In	any
case,	it	made	tactical	sense	to	deal	with	many	brokers,	above	all	because	of	the
need	to	conduct	some	operations	surreptitiously.
When	contemporaries	called	Nathan	“the	master	of	the	exchange,”	they	were
not	wholly	exaggerating:	by	the	late	1820s	the	positions	he	took	were	watched
closely	by	smaller	traders	who—not	unreasonably—credited	him	with	superior
information	and	intuition.	This	meant	that	overt	Rothschild	sales	or	purchases
could	trigger	a	general	flight	from	or	into	a	particular	stock,	a	ripple	effect	the
brothers	generally	did	not	like	to	encourage.	Stories	abound	about	Nathan’s
techniques	for	averting	such	imitation.	“If	he	possessed	news	calculated	to	make
the	funds	rise,	he	would	commission	the	broker	who	acted	on	his	behalf
[initially]	to	sell	half	a	million.”	“It	was	a	common	practice	with	this	mighty
speculator	to	have	one	set	of	agents	selling,	and	another	buying	the	same	stock
so	that	there	was	no	ascertaining	what	in	reality	was	the	object	of	his
manoeuvres.”
7
	In	Vienna,	Salomon	delegated	much	of	his	stock	market	business
to	a	jobber	whom	he	paid	“a	fixed	salary	of	12,000	gulden,	irrespective	of	his
immense	commissions”:
This	person	used	to	wait	upon	Rothschild	early	every	morning,	when	together
they	concerted	their	plans	for	the	day’s	operations.	The	stock-jobber	had	his
clients	and	customers	not	only	in	the	Bourse	but	also	in	the	“Panduren-Lager”
[the	unofficial	bourse	in	the	Grünangergasse	café	where	out-of-hours	trading
went	on]	with	whom	he	concluded	his	purchases	and	sales.	He	kept	a	number	of
runners	in	his	employ,	whose	sole	duty	it	was	to	run	backwards	and	forwards
from	him	to	Rothschild’s	with	reports	of	all	the	fluctuations	in	prices.
Of	growing	importance	as	a	non-exclusive	source	of	financial	information
(and	misinformation)	in	this	period	was,	of	course,	the	press.	It	might	be	thought

--- Page 390 ---
that	the	proliferation	of	newspapers	in	the	nineteenth	century	tended	to	erode	the
advantages	which	the	Rothschilds	were	able	to	derive	from	their	private	system
of	communications;	and	to	some	extent	this	was	the	case.	On	the	other	hand,	the
existence	of	financial	pages	in	newspapers	presented	new	opportunities	for
influencing	the	markets	which	the	Rothschilds	were	not	slow	to	exploit.	This
was	not	at	first	easy:	as	we	have	seen,	in	the	1820s	the	Rothschilds	were	more
often	the	targets	of	press	criticism	than	manipulators	of	the	media,	and	there
were	always	radical	and	reactionary	journals	which	remained	unremittingly
hostile	to	them.	Gradually,	however,	a	group	of	papers	emerged	over	which	the
bank	could	exercise	at	least	some	influence.	We	have	already	noted	how
Salomon	was	able,	through	Gentz,	to	exert	pressure	on	the	German	
Allgemeine
Zeitung
,	and	its	use	of	Heinrich	Heine	as	a	correspondent	in	the	1830s	also
ensured	relatively	positive	(if	satirical)	coverage	of	James’s	activities.	James
himself	appears	to	have	steadily	increased	his	influence	over	papers	like	the
Moniteur	Universel
	and	the	
Journal	des	Débats
.	“Yesterday	a	deprecatory	article
concerning	us	was	published	in	one	of	the	newspapers,”	wrote	James	to	Nathan
in	1832.	“If	this	article	should	appear	in	one	of	the	larger	newspapers,	we	will
then	
publish	a	response	here.”	“Well,”	he	told	his	nephews	five	years	later,
following	some	sensitive	negotiations	in	Spain,	“I	am	arranging	for	several
articles	to	be	printed	in	the	newspapers	for	this	will	make	an	impression	in
Madrid	and	in	London	because	your	English	newspapers	often	follow	in	the
footsteps	of	our	French	ones	and	it	is	good	if	one	can	regulate	public	opinion.”
By	1839	he	could	assure	his	nephews	confidently	that	he	would	“see	to	it”	that
the	French	government	was	“attacked	in	all	the	newspapers”	if	it	had	the
temerity	to	oppose	his	railway	plans.	“If	one	can’t	make	oneself	loved	then	one
has	to	make	oneself	feared,”	he	declared,	repeating	a	favourite	Mayer	Amschel
maxim.	“Newspapers	can	make	a	strong	impact.”
Nathan	too	responded	to	early	press	attacks	by	establishing	what	was	to	be	an
enduring	relationship	with	the	most	influential	of	all	British	papers:	
The	Times
.
In	the	1820s	he	had	been	attacked	on	a	number	of	occasions	by	the	
Morning
Chronicle:
	for	example,	it	alleged	in	1829	that	one	of	its	rivals,	the	
Courier
,	had
used	inside	information	from	the	Foreign	Office	about	a	change	of	ministry	in
France	as	the	basis	for	a	stock	market	speculation	with	Nathan:	the	editor
allegedly	“told	Montefiore,	Montefiore	told	Rothschild,	and	a	very	neat	stock
job	was	got	up	with	the	rapidity	of	lightning.”	In	fact,	it	was	more	often	Nathan
who	was	in	a	position	to	provide	the	papers	with	news—in	particular,	political
communications	relayed	by	his	brothers	from	Vienna	and	Paris.	Indeed,	it	was

--- Page 391 ---
partly	their	common	interest	in	speedy	communication	which	brought	the
Rothschilds	and	
The	Times
	together:	by	the	end	of	the	1830s	they	were
effectively	sharing	a	pigeon-post	service	between	Boulogne	and	London.
Perhaps	more	importantly,	Nathan	struck	up	a	friendship	with	Thomas	Massa
Alsager,	who	had	joined	
The	Times
	in	1817	as	a	City	correspondent	and	was	one
of	its	leading	financial	writers	until	1846.
8
	Although	the	closeness	of	the	link
should	not	be	exaggerated	(Alsager	at	times	expressed	concern	about	the	scale	of
British	capital	export,	which	no	one	had	done	more	to	encourage	than	Nathan),
nevertheless	the	Radicals	and	Chartists	who	accused	the	paper	of	being	“the
Jew’s	harp”	were	not	wholly	fantasising.	In	1842	Anselm	wrote	to	his	cousins
enclosing	a	new	“regulation	which	the	Prussian	Govt.	intends	issuing	about	the
poor	Jews”:
[T]he	King	of	Prussia	being	very	vain	&	much	affected	when	the	
Journal	des
Débats
	or	the	English	disapprove	his	Govt.	it	would	be	very	desirable	for	those
papers	to	contain	from	time	to	time	articles	in	favour	of	the	Jews.	As	you	know
well	the	leading	men	of	
The	Times
,	you	will	easily	obtain	from	them	the
insertion	of	some	articles,	&	I	will	then	send	you	some	German	articles	you	may
have	translated.
Such	manipulation	of	the	media	goes	on	in	much	the	same	way	today,	of
course,	and	it	is	difficult	to	fault	the	Rothschilds	for	seeking	to	influence	an	often
hostile	press.	More	difficult	for	a	modern	reader	to	judge	are	the	financial
practices	of	a	period	when	there	was	little	formal	regulation	and	the	rapid	pace
of	financial	innovation	left	such	legislation	as	did	exist	lagging	some	way
behind.	There	is	no	question	that	the	Rothschilds	took	full	advantage	of	the
fluidity	of	the	financial	environment;	but	it	would	be	quite	anachronistic	to	level
retrospective	charges	of	“insider	dealing,”	or	any	of	the	other	modern	forms	of
fraud	which	were	then	unknown.	In	the	
Comédie	humaine
,	Balzac’s	Nucingen—
the	German-Jewish	banker	
modelled	on	James—is	reputed	to	have	made	his
fortune	by	a	succession	of	essentially	bogus	bankruptcies.	These	operations	are
described	in	considerable—and	entertaining—detail,	but	they	make	little
economic	sense;	nor	do	they	correspond	in	any	way	to	the	reality	of	Rothschild
practices.	In	fact,	there	appear	to	have	been	only	a	few	legal	actions	brought
against	Nathan	alleging	financial	malpractice,	and	in	only	one	case	did	the
charges	stick.	In	1823,	for	example,	a	subscriber	to	the	1822	Neapolitan	loan
claimed	that	Nathan	had	sought	to	retain	his	deposit	of	£1,255	without	handing
over	the	relevant	stock	certificates:	the	case	was	thrown	out,	and	it	would	appear

--- Page 392 ---
that	it	was	actually	the	plaintiff,	a	London	corn-merchant	named	Hennings,	who
had	acted	in	bad	faith	(refusing	to	pay	the	money	due	when	the	bonds	were
falling	as	a	result	of	the	French	invasion	of	Spain,	then	attempting	to	pay
belatedly	when	they	began	to	recover).
The	one	case	which	went	against	Nathan	was	filed	in	1829	by	a	man	named
Brookman,	who	alleged	that	the	Rothschilds	had	deliberately	given	him	bad
investment	advice,	and	had	then	charged	him	for	sales	and	purchases	of	stocks
which	had	not	in	fact	taken	place.	In	1818,	Brookman	claimed,	Nathan	had
advised	him	to	sell	20,000	francs	of	French	rentes	and	invest	in	the	new	Prussian
sterling	loan	then	being	issued	by	the	London	house.	Not	only	had	this	been	bad
advice—rentes	had	promptly	risen	10	per	cent,	while	the	Prussian	bonds	fell	7
per	cent—it	had	also	been	disingenuous,	for	instead	of	selling	Brookman’s	rentes
to	a	third	party,	Nathan	had	kept	them	for	himself.	Contrary	to	Brookman’s
instructions,	he	had	then	sold	the	Prussian	bonds,	advising	a	fresh	purchase	of
rentes	worth	115,000	francs.	“As	in	the	previous	cases,	the	moment	the	plaintiff
bought,	down	went	the	stock	into	which	he	purchased,	and	the	plaintiff	is	then
advised	to	sell	.	.	.	The	moment	the	plaintiff	’s	rentes	were	sold,	up	went	the
market.”	Brookman	had	then	asked	that	the	money	be	reinvested	in	rentes,	but
shortly	after	that	decided	to	sell	again.	According	to	the	accounts	of	the	Paris
house,	there	had	been	“regular	charges	for	exchange,	interest,	brokerage	and
commission”	deducted	from	Brookman’s	account	for	each	transaction;	yet	there
had	in	reality	been	no	actual	purchases	or	sales	of	rentes,	which	had	remained	in
the	Rothschilds’	hands	all	along.	Nathan’s	counsel	sought	to	argue	that
Brookman	was	merely	a	“veteran	stock-jobber,”	that	the	accounts	in	question
had	been	settled	ten	years	before	and	that	such	book	transactions	were	routine;
but	the	court	was	unimpressed.	According	to	the	Vice-Chancellor’s	scathing
judgement,	Nathan	was	guilty	of	having	made	“fallacious	statements,”	and	he
was	ordered	to	pay	to	Brookman	“the	amount	of	all	the	sums	which	he	has	lost
or	ought	to	have	received,”	plus	5	per	cent	interest,	plus	costs.	Predictably,	the
case	inspired	yet	another	cartoon	of	Nathan,	
The	Man	Wot	Knows	How	to	Drive
a	Bargain
,	which	portrayed	Nathan	as	a	dealer	in	old	clothes,	carrying	a	sack
marked	“French	Rentes	£20,000”	(see	illustration	10.ix).
Yet	this	example	of	apparently	Nucingen-like	behaviour	is	worth	mentioning
precisely	because	it	seems	to	be	unique.	In	reality,	the	Rothschilds	of	this	period
were	more	often	the	victims	of	fraud—not	to	mention	straightforward	robbery—
than	its	perpetrators.	In	1824	a	Frenchman	named	Doloret—who	had	also
brought	an	unsuccessful	action	against	Nathan	over	the	Neapolitan	loan—

--- Page 393 ---
fraudulently	obtained	from	the	London	house	bills	worth	£9,670,	drawn	in	his
favour	on	the	Paris	house.	A	year	later	one	of	James’s	clerks	stole	a	quantity	of
banknotes	(perhaps	as	much	as	1.5	million	francs)	by	smuggling	them	out	of	the
office	in	a	spe-cially	
designed	belt.	A	similar	robbery	occurred	at	New	Court	in
1838,	when	an	eighteen-year-old	clerk	named	Samuel	Green	absconded	with	a
cheque	for	£2,900.	In	1839	it	was	the	turn	of	the	Paris	house.	There	was	a	much
bigger	robbery	from	the	Madrid	office	six	years	later,	with	gold	and	securities
worth	around	£40,000	being	stolen.	And	seven	cases	of	Spanish	piastres	worth
around	£5,600	were	stolen	from	a	Rothschild	coach	on	its	way	from	London	to
Paris	in	1845.	Nor	were	fraud	and	robbery	the	only	threats	the	Rothschilds	had
to	contend	with.	In	1863	a	young	man	who	had	lost	heavily	on	the	bourse	sought
to	extort	100,000	francs	from	James	by	sending	him	threatening	letters.	Such
crimes	were	perhaps	the	inevitable	price	the	Rothschilds	paid	for	their	celebrity.
For	what	more	tempting	target	did	the	nineteenth	century	have	to	offer	its
aspirant	crooks	than	the	world’s	bankers?
10.ix:	“A	Sharpshooter,”
	
The	Man	Wot	Knows	How	to	Drive	a	Bargain
	
(July
14,	1829).

--- Page 394 ---
ELEVEN
“Il	est	mort”	(1836)
Sidonia	had	foreseen	.	.	.	that,	after	the	exhaustion	of	a	war	of
twenty-five	years,	Europe	must	require	capital	to	carry	on	peace.
He	reaped	the	due	reward	of	his	sagacity.	Europe	did	require
money,	and	Sidonia	was	ready	to	lend	it	to	Europe.	France
wanted	some;	Austria	more;	Prussia	a	little;	Russia	a	few	mil
lions.	Sidonia	could	furnish	them	all	.	.	.	It	is	not	difficult	to
conceive	that,	after	having	pursued	the	career	we	have	inti
mated	for	about	ten	years,	Sidonia	had	become	one	of	the	most
considerable	personages	in	Europe.	He	had	established	a
brother,	or	a	near	relative,	in	whom	he	could	confide,	in	most	of
the	principal	capitals.	He	was	lord	and	master	of	the	money
market	of	the	world	and	of	course	virtually	lord	and	master	of
everything	else.	He	literally	held	the	revenues	of	Southern	Italy
in	pawn;	and	monarchs	and	ministers	of	all	countries	courted
his	advice	and	were	guided	by	his	suggestions.	He	was	still	in	the
vigour	of	life,	and	was	not	a	mere	money-making	machine.	He
had	a	general	intelligence	equal	to	his	position,	and	looked	for
ward	to	the	period	when	some	relaxation	from	his	vast	enter
prises	might	enable	him	to	direct	his	energies	to	great	objects	of
public	benefit.	But	in	the	height	of	his	vast	prosperity	he	sud
denly	died.
—DISRAELI,	
CONINGSBY
	
	
	
	
A	Wedding	and	a	Funeral
On	June	15,	1836,	a	wedding	took	place	in	Frankfurt.	The	bride	was	Carl’s
daughter	Charlotte.	She	had	turned	seventeen	just	two	days	before	and	was,	it
was	generally	agreed,	rather	beautiful.	Her	future	mother-in-law—an	exacting
judge—found	her	as	“beautiful	as	members	have	already	said	and	her	manner

--- Page 395 ---
agreeable,”	“simple	and	amiable.”	This	was	not	just	familial	pride.	When
Benjamin	Disraeli	met	Charlotte	for	the	first	time	the	following	year,	he	was
struck	by	her	“tall,	graceful,	dark,	and	clear”	looks:	“picturesquely	dressed	[in]	a
robe	of	yellow	silk,	a	hat	and	feathers,	with	a	sort	of	“Sévigne”	[bandeau]
beneath	of	magnificent	pearls,”	she	looked	“quite	a	Murillo”	and	was
“universally	admired.”	The	two	characters	in	his	fiction	which	
she	later	inspired
—Eva	Besso	in	
Tancred
	and	Mrs	Neuchatel	in	
Endymion
—are	both	fascinating
and	exotic	beauties,	especially	the	former:
That	face	presented	the	perfection	of	oriental	beauty;	such	as	it	existed	in	Eden,
such	as	it	may	yet	occasionally	be	found	among	the	favoured	races	in	the
favoured	climes	.	.	.	The	countenance	was	oval,	yet	the	head	was	small.	The
complexion	was	neither	fair	nor	dark,	yet	it	possessed	the	brilliancy	of	the	north
without	its	dryness,	and	the	softness	peculiar	to	the	children	of	the	sun	without
its	moisture.	A	rich	subdued	and	equable	tint	overspread	this	visage,	though	the
skin	was	so	transparent	that	you	occasionally	caught	the	streaky	spleandour	of
some	vein	like	the	dappled	shades	in	the	fine	peel	of	beautiful	fruit.	But	it	was
the	eye	and	its	overspreading	arch	that	all	the	Orient	spake	.	.	.
Her	groom—and	also	her	cousin—was	Nathan’s	eldest	son	Lionel.	He	was
twenty-seven,	and	already	an	experienced	businessman,	having	recently	played	a
pivotal	role	in	his	father’s	intricate	financial	operations	in	Spain.	To	judge	by	his
letters,	he	was	a	rather	solemn,	serious	young	man,	conscious	already	of	his
daunting	responsibility,	as	the	eldest	son,	to	preserve	his	father’s	remarkable
financial	achievements;	but	also	increasingly	aware	of	a	more	general	obligation
to	advance	the	cause	of	Jewish	emancipation	not	only	in	England,	where	he	had
been	born	and	brought	up,	but	throughout	Europe.	He	was	presentable,	if	not
handsome,	and	not	a	little	amorous.
For	weeks	the	women	of	the	family	in	Frankfurt	had	been	preparing	for	the
great	event:	Gutle,	the	betrothed	couple’s	grandmother,	now	aged	eighty-two;
Eva,	her	eldest	son	Amschel’s	wife;	the	bride’s	mother,	Adelheid;	as	well	as
Lionel’s	eldest	sister	Charlotte,	who	had	married	her	cousin	Anselm	ten	years
before,	and	was	now	bringing	up	their	three	children,	with	another	on	the	way.
The	Rothschild	houses	in	Frankfurt	were	being	vigorously	“washed	and	cleaned”
in	preparation	for	the	anticipated	round	of	family	dinners:	Amschel’s	house,	with
his	beloved	garden,	in	the	northern	suburbs	of	the	town;	his	elegant	town	house
on	the	Zeil;	Anselm’s	newly	acquired	“palace”	in	the	Neue	Mainzer	Strasse;	and
the	more	modest	house	in	the	same	street	used	by	Carl	and	his	family	when	they

--- Page 396 ---
were	in	Frankfurt	rather	than	Naples.	The	original	family	home	in	the	former
Judengasse—where	Gutle	stubbornly	continued	to	live,	despite	her	sons’	great
wealth—seems	not	to	have	been	considered	a	fit	venue	for	the	festivities.
Of	the	London-based	Rothschilds,	Lionel	himself	was	among	the	first	to
arrive;	his	youngest	brother	Mayer	was	already	there,	as	he	was	in	the	process	of
completing	his	studies	in	Germany.	Their	father	set	off	from	London	at	the
beginning	of	June,	accompanied	by	his	wife	and	two	unmarried	daughters,	the
vivacious	Hannah	Mayer	and	the	musically	inclined	Louise.	Left	behind	in
London	to	mind	the	office	at	New	Court	was	Nathan’s	third	son,	Nat.	His	other
son	Anthony	was	in	Paris,	where	he	would	perform	the	same	deputising	role
when	his	uncle	James	also	left	for	Frankfurt.	This	he	did	on	June	4,	preceded	by
his	wife	Betty	and	their	four	young	children:	Charlotte,	the	eldest	at	eleven,
Alphonse,	Gustave	and	the	baby	Salomon	James.	They	arrived	in	Frankfurt	eight
days	later.	Just	before	them,	James’s	brother	Salomon	had	arrived	from	Vienna
accompanied	by	his	son	Anselm.	While	they	naturally	stayed	at	the	house	in	the
Neue	Mainzer	Strasse	where	Anselm’s	wife	Charlotte	
and	the	children	awaited
them,	the	less	frequent	visitors	to	Frankfurt	had	to	be	put	up	in	hotels:	the
London	Rothschilds	were	booked	into	the	Römische	Kaiser,	the	Paris
Rothschilds	stayed	at	the	Russische	Hof,	and	the	Montefiores—doubly	related	to
the	Rothschilds	by	marriage—in	the	Englische	Hof.	Altogether,	by	the	time	all
had	assembled,	there	were	around	thirty-six	Rothschilds	in	Frankfurt.	Perhaps
not	surprisingly,	there	were	few	other	guests:	the	only	“outsiders”	referred	to	in
the	surviving	correspondence	are	Mayer’s	tutor,	Dr	Schlemmer,	and	the
composer	Gioacchino	Rossini,	a	friend	of	both	James	and	Lionel,	whose	role
was	“to	add	to	the	gaiety	of	our	party.”
Left	alone	in	charge	of	the	Paris	office	for	the	first	time,	Anthony	felt	ill	at
ease,	though	this	was	a	consequence	more	of	boredom	than	of	the	burdens	of
responsibility.	“Am	not	in	good	spirits,”	he	complained	to	his	brother	Nat,
similarly	situated	in	London.	“Nothing	is	so	disagreeable	than	to	remain	alone.
Everything	is	uncommonly	flat	.	.	.	How	do	you	amuse	yourself	quite	alone?	You
are	better	off	than	I	am	for	here	they	have	all	gone	and	shut	up	the	house,	so	I
dine	every	day	at	a	Cabaret	[tavern].”	The	Paris	market	was	in	the	traditional
summer	doldrums,	and	his	uncle	James’s	advice	from	Brussels—where	he	and
Nathan	had	stopped	briefly	on	business—had	scarcely	been	an	encouragement	to
undertake	new	business:
In	my	opinion	you	should	try	to	leave	everything	alone	until	your	good	father
returns,	and	if	anyone	should	put	a	proposal	to	you,	you	should	reply	that	you

--- Page 397 ---
will	first	have	to	consult	your	father,	and	you	will	thereby	gain	some	time	and
some	peace	and	quiet.	Don’t	take	any	of	this	to	heart	and	take	my	advice,	hold
on	to	your	money	and	don’t	spend	any	of	it.
Nat,	by	contrast,	was	under	pressure,	for	his	father	preferred	to	keep	his	sons
busy	in	his	absence.	No	sooner	had	he	arrived	in	Frankfurt	than	he	despatched	a
characteristically	restless	letter,	not	only	urging	Nat	to	buy	this	security	or	sell
that,	but	also	exerting	an	indirect	pressure	on	his	brother	in	Paris:
You	must	always	put	Anthony	in	the	way	of	selling,	as	he	belongs	to	the	Bull
party	and	does	not	like	to	sell	until	you	have	made	some	few	purchases,
therefore	when	the	prices	are	low	you	can	buy	a	little	and	encourage	Billy
[Anthony]	to	do	business	and	write	to	him	at	the	same	time,	that	you	are	pleased
and	satisfied	with	his	remittances	and	with	everything	he	does.	I	have	written	to
him,	that	every	day	he	must	do	something	whatever	may	be	the	price,	the	same
you	can	write	to	him.
A	few	days	later—before	James	himself	had	arrived	in	Frankfurt—Nathan	wrote
directly	to	Anthony	telling	him	“to	keep	business	going”	and	“keep	yourselves
occupied.”	Neither	he	nor	Nat	could	feel	comfortable	on	receiving	such
contradictory	instructions	from	their	father	and	uncle.
Lionel	too	was	faintly	disgruntled.	He	was	impatient	to	be	married.	Though
the	match	was	an	arranged	one,	intended	primarily	to	strengthen	the	links
between	the	London	and	Naples	branches	of	the	family—and	to	prevent	precious
family	capital	going	to	outsiders—he	had	fallen	in	love	with	his	future	wife,	or
at	least	had	persuaded	himself	that	he	had.	He	was	also	eager	to	leave	Frankfurt.
As	he	put	it	to	his	brother	Anthony,	he	was	“heartily	glad	the	day	for	me	quitting
beautiful	Frankfurt	will	soon	be	here”;	for,	like	all	the	younger	Rothschilds	who
had	grown	up	in	England,	he	found	his	father’s	birthplace	not	only	tediously
provincial	but	also	socially	uncomfortable,	in	that	the	generality	of	Jews	in
Frankfurt	were	still	subject	to	more	legal	discrimination	than	their	counterparts
in	London	or	Paris,	even	if	he	and	his	family	were	to	some	extent	exempted.	His
unease	was	only	increased	by	his	father’s	late	arrival	from	Brussels,	and	by
every	subsequent	delay.
Besides	the	wedding	itself,	there	were	two	ulterior	motives	for	this	large
family	gathering—one	of	the	biggest	Rothschild	conclaves	of	the	nineteenth
century,	and	without	question	the	most	important.	Lionel’s	marriage	to	Charlotte
was	not	the	first	endogamous	marriage	in	the	family’s	history:	as	we	have	seen,
their	uncle	James	had	married	their	cousin	(and	his	own	niece)	Betty	in	1824;

--- Page 398 ---
and	Anselm	had	married	his	cousin	Charlotte	two	years	later.	More—many	more
—such	intermarriages	were	to	follow.	The	only	question,	as	Lionel	put	it,	was
“how	the	younger	branches	of	the	family	will	agree”;	or,	to	be	precise,	who
would	be	paired	off	with	whom.	This	was	the	real	reason	for	the	presence	in
Frankfurt	of	the	numerous	younger	siblings	and	cousins:	they	were	being
assessed	for	their	potential	compatibility.	Thus	Carl’s	son	Mayer	Carl	was
tentatively	identified	as	a	suitable	match	for	Lionel’s	youngest	sister	Louise;
Louisa	Montefiore	was	discussed	as	a	possible	wife	for	Anthony;	Joseph
Montefiore	was	spurned	by	both	Hannah	Mayer	and	Louise;	and	their	brother
Mayer	ruled	out	as	a	husband	for	James’s	Charlotte.	The	marriage	market
evidently	provided	more	entertainment	for	mothers	than	for	daughters:	Hannah
Mayer	complained	of	“dreadful	tedious	long	dinners	every	day”	punctuated	by
German	and	embroidery	lessons.	“Only	fancy,”	wrote	a	dismayed	Louise	to	her
brother	in	London:	“to	be	seated	as	I	am	sometimes	between	
Grossmutter
	and
aunt	Eva	and	to	be	stuffed	so	full	as	scarcely	to	be	able	to	breathe.”	The	tedium
was	relieved	only	by	her	daily	music	lesson	with	Rossini.
The	third	reason	for	the	family	gathering—and	the	most	important—was
business.	Accustomed	though	they	were	to	reaching	major	business	decisions	on
the	basis	of	their	regular	correspondence,	even	the	five	Rothschild	brothers
sometimes	found	face-to-face	meetings	indispensable.	In	the	years	before	1836
James	had	often	crossed	the	Channel	to	meet	Nathan,	and	Nathan	had	sometimes
reciprocated;	Salomon,	the	most	peripatetic	of	the	five,	had	been	a	frequent
visitor	to	Paris	and	still	travelled	back	and	forth	regularly	between	Frankfurt	and
Vienna;	while	Carl	too	divided	his	time	between	Naples,	where	he	did	business,
and	Frankfurt,	where	he	preferred	to	educate	his	children.	Yet	the	regularity	of
such	shuttling	had	declined	over	the	years	as	the	brothers	had	aged,	and	as	their
business	and	family	commitments	in	their	respective	places	of	residence	had
increased.	The	last	time	all	five	had	met	together	had	been	in	1828.
The	most	important	item	on	their	agenda	in	1836	was	nothing	less	than	their
future	relations	with	one	another.	Since	1810,	as	we	have	seen,	the	house	of
Rothschild	had	been	a	partnership,	based	primarily	on	a	detailed,	legally	binding
contract	as	well	as	on	the	wills	of	the	various	partners,	which	determined	how
individual	shares	in	the	firm	would	be	passed	on	to	the	next	generation.	It	had
been	the	custom	to	revise	and	renew	the	partnership	agreement	every	few	years:
thus	there	had	been	new	contracts	in	1815,	1818,	1825—when	Salomon’s	son
Anselm	had	been	admitted	as	a	sleeping	partner—and	1828,	when	he	had
become	a	“real	Associé.”	Since	then,	Nathan’s	three	elder	sons,	Lionel,	Anthony

--- Page 399 ---
and	Nat,	had	all	entered	the	firm	to	serve	their	financial	apprenticeships.	By
1836	Nathan	felt	his	eldest	son	was	ready	to	
become	a	partner	on	the	same
footing	as	Anselm;	and	it	was	primarily	to	agree	the	terms	of	his	elevation	that
the	brothers	now	met.
Apart	from	the	new	partnership	agreement,	there	were	other	matters	which	the
brothers	needed	to	discuss.	The	year	1836	was	critical	in	the	history	of	their
operations	in	Spain,	where	a	bloody	civil	war	was	raging;	and	there	were	also
important	transactions	afoot	with	respect	to	Greece,	Naples	and	Belgium,	all
countries	in	which	the	brothers	had	a	financial	interest.	In	addition,	three	of	the
brothers	had	recently	begun	to	involve	themselves	in	an	entirely	new	line	of
business:	the	financing	of	railway	construction.	James	in	particular	was	deeply
embroiled	in	battles	for	control	of	the	fast-developing	French	rail	network—
business	which	to	some	extent	depended	on	his	access,	through	Nathan,	to	the
larger	British	capital	market.	Yet	it	was	far	from	obvious	that	Nathan	himself
approved	of	this	new	direction	the	firm	was	taking.	The	first	British	railway
“mania”	was	reaching	its	peak	in	1836,	when	no	fewer	than	twenty-nine	new
railway	companies	were	chartered;	but	he,	in	common	with	all	but	one	of	the
established	London	banks,	had	played	no	part	in	it.	His	preference	was	for
stepping	up	the	bank’s	involvement	in	the	United	States,	continuing	to
concentrate	on	making	loans	to	states	and	financing	trade,	rather	than	investing
in	industrial	concerns.	Here	too,	however,	there	was	matter	for	discussion,	not
least	because	of	the	brewing	financial	crisis	on	the	other	side	of	the	Atlantic,	the
beginnings	of	which	had	begun	to	manifest	themselves	(in	the	form	of	a
monetary	tightening	in	London)	on	the	eve	of	the	brothers’	meeting.
The	negotiations	went	on	between	the	partners	in	strict	secrecy:	all	other
family	members	were	excluded.	“They	are	now	all	assembled,”	reported	Lionel
to	his	brother,	“that	is,	the	four	are	alone	in	[Papa’]s	room	and	we	are	shut	out.
Papa	I	believe	said	something	about	our	having	a	share	in	the	London	profit.
They	all	seem	to	let	him	do	as	he	likes.	I	do	not	know	.	.	.	whether	they	think	of
getting	him	round	by	good	words	and	coaxing.”	“The	Family	arrangements	go
on	very	amicably,”	thought	his	mother.	“There	has	been	no	difference.”	By	June
12	it	appeared	that	Nathan	had	got	his	way	without	the	“high	words”	his	son	had
feared:
Papa	proposed	that	we	should	have	half	the	profits	of	the	London	House	and	that
he	should	have	only	half	the	profit	the	others	make.	Everything	was	agreed	to
immediately	and	not	a	word	said.	I	was	not	in	the	room	but	this	morning	have
heard	so	.	.	.	I	am	sure	you	will	be	pleased	in	knowing	that	they	all	are	pleased

--- Page 400 ---
with	each	other	and	that	there	have	not	been	any	disputes	.	.	.	They	all	are	very
satisfied	with	the	different	cash	accounts	and	did	not	expect	to	have	seen	the
Houses	so	flourishing.
“All	parties,”	it	seemed,	were	“inclined	to	keep	the	peace.”	Such	fraternal
harmony	was	evidently	somewhat	unusual.	“Till	now,	thank	heavens,	there	has
not	been	one	angry	word	between	the	Brothers,”	wrote	Lionel	with	evident
surprise.	“They	pass	their	time	at	[Papa’s	room]	and	the	[counting]	house,	and
dine	altogether	at	one	of	the	three	houses	quite	
en	famille
.”	It	was	one	of	the	rare
occasions	when	the	five	brothers	lived	up	to	the	first	of	the	three	ideals	enshrined
in	their	adopted	motto:	“Concordia.”	The	Frankfurt	artist	Moritz	Daniel
Oppenheim	captured	this	mood	of	harmony	in	the	portraits	he	painted	of	the	five
brothers	to	mark	the	occasion.
Only	one	shadow	hung	over	the	brothers’	deliberations	and	over	the	nuptial
preparations	beyond	their	closed	doors;	and	that	was	the	fact	that	Nathan
Rothschild	was	dying.	Or	rather	he	was	ill;	for	no	one	could	conceive	that	the
man	who,	since	the	death	of	his	father	in	1812,	had	been	the	unquestioned	leader
of	the	house	of	Rothschild,	might	die	at	the	very	height	of	his	powers.	While	at
Brussels,	Nathan	had	suffered	a	recurrence	of	an	earlier	complaint,	probably	an
ischio-rectal	abscess.	As	his	wife	put	it,	he	had	“again	a	visit	from	his	most
unpleasant	visitor,	a	disagreeable	boil	in	a	most	inconvenient	place	and	[which]
annoys	him	considerably	particularly	in	sitting	down.”	His	son	was	more	blunt:
“Papa	has	a	most	terrible	boil	on	his	bottom	and	suffers	very	much	from	it.	He
has	not	yet	been	able	to	leave	his	bed	and	has	a	great	deal	of	pain.	The
movement	of	the	carriage	inflamed	it,	so	that	he	requires	now	double	rest.”
The	final	illness	and	death	of	Nathan	Rothschild	is	a	case	study	in	the
inadequacies	of	nineteenth-century	medicine.	The	German	doctors	may	not
actually	have	killed	their	patient	by	their	interventions,	which	aimed,	not
unreasonably,	at	draining	the	abscess;	but	they	inflicted	excruciating	pain	on
him,	unmitigated	by	any	form	of	anaesthesia.	Shortly	after	his	arrival,	an	attempt
was	made	to	lance	the	boil,	but	another	swelling	quickly	formed	which	“creates
the	same	pain	and	confinement	as	the	first.”	“This,	dear	Anthony,”	reported	his
distraught	wife,	“is	very	distressing	as	these	things	are	so	painful	.	.	.	but	the
doctors	assure	us	of	no	danger.	You	know	how	impatient	Papa	is	if	he	is	ill,”	she
concluded	hurriedly,	“and	I	therefore	must	go	to	him.”	“The	large	opening,”
Lionel	was	able	to	report	on	June	13,	“has	been	running	famously	and	no	other
operation,	it	is	expected,	will	be	necessary.	Professor	Chelius	arrived	this
morning	and	found	both	wounds	in	a	much	more	forward	state	than	he	had

--- Page 401 ---
imagined;	in	fact	he	is	quite	satisfied	with	the	way	they	are	going	on	and	assures
us	that	only	time	is	requisite	to	see	Papa	quite	restored.”	His	mother	was	equally
reassured	by	this	“celebrated	Professor	from	Heidelberg,	who	unites	great
safeness	of	manner	and	incessant	attention,	with	renowned	ability”	and	by	his
“assurances	that	there	is	nothing	more	forming	and	the	opening	[is]	going	on
well.”
Needless	to	say,	Nathan’s	illness	blighted	the	wedding	celebrations.	Although
the	bride’s	parents	decided	to	proceed	with	the	ball	they	had	planned	to	give	on
June	13,	the	bride	herself	was	so	“agitated”	that	she	could	not	attend.	Yet	Nathan
—with	the	phenomenal	resolve	which	had	characterised	his	whole	life—refused
to	have	the	wedding	postponed	on	his	account.	Indeed,	he	insisted	on	being
present	at	it.	On	the	day	of	the	wedding,	as	his	wife	recorded,	“he	took	courage
at	6	o’clock	in	the	morning	to	get	up	and	walk	to	Charlotte’s	which	he	effected
tolerably	and	afterwards	dressed—and	went	to	Charles’s	[Carl’s]	to	be	present	at
the	celebration	of	the	ceremony.”	“Everything	passed	off	perfectly	well,”	the
relieved	groom	was	able	to	report	to	his	absent	brothers	that	afternoon.	“Papa
was	well	enough	to	come	.	.	.	and	as	his	complaint	is	only	one	that	gives	pain,	it
required	but	a	little	resolution,	of	which	you	know	Papa	has	enough.	The
ceremony	lasted	but	half	an	hour	and	was	very	solemn	.	.	.	[It]	went	off
uncommonly	well	as	Papa	was	there	and	our	family	circle	complete.”	Indeed,
Nathan	seems	to	have	gone	out	of	his	way	to	play	down	his	illness,	trying	“with
jokes	of	every	kind	.	.	.	to	shorten	the	speech	of	the	worthy	Rabbi	and	to	cheer
up	those	present.”	It	was	an	act.	Immediately	after	the	ceremony,	“he	was	seized
with	the	excessive	pain	which	usually	comes	on	about	2	o’clock	and	lasts	for	6
hours.”	Rather	than	return	to	the	hotel,	he	was	put	to	bed	in	his	
daughter’s	house.
While	the	newlyweds	departed	for	a	brief	twenty-four-hour	honeymoon	at
Wilhelmsbad,
1
	an	increasingly	irritable	Nathan	submitted	once	again	to	the
surgeon’s	knife.	Although	he	bore	“all	his	operations	and	dressing	without	a
murmur,”	he	was	now	worried	enough	to	insist	that	his	doctor	and	erstwhile
neighbour	in	New	Court,	Benjamin	Travers,	be	summoned.
For	six	weeks	the	family	waited	in	vain	for	Nathan	to	recover.	By	the	end	of
June	he	was	well	enough	to	resume	dictating	his	orders	to	Nat	via	Lionel,	but	the
final	negotiation	of	the	partnership	agreement	was	postponed—to	the	evident
irritation	of	James,	who	complained	of	eye-ache	and	longed	for	the	comfort	of	a
spa.	Lionel	was	equally	impatient.	“Papa	is	going	on	pretty	well	but	slowly,”	he
told	his	brothers.	“Every	day	we	have	a	family	dinner	which	is	long	and	tedious
and	all	the	day	long	they	are	running	from	one	house	to	the	other,	doing	nothing

--- Page 402 ---
and	talking	of	nothing.”	But	the	doctors	continued	to	open	and	drain	the	wounds
of	“hardness,”	“matter”	and	“fibres”	with	little	sign	of	real	improvement	in	the
long-suffering	patient,	who	sought	comfort	in	“Soda	Water,	Lavender,	Oranges,
Arrowroot	and	fruit”	sent	by	courier	from	England.	“The	second	[wound]	was
opened	this	morning,”	reported	Lionel	on	July	9,	a	month	after	his	father	had
arrived	in	Frankfurt.	“Papa	underwent	the	operation	with	the	greatest	possible
courage	and	all	the	time	made	jokes.	The	wound	was	larger	than	the	first	as	the
boil	was	most	terribly	deep	and	must	have	been	very	painful.”	And	so	it	went	on,
with	the	gathering	financial	crisis	eerily	mirroring	the	patient’s	condition.
Finally,	on	July	24,	Nathan	lapsed	into	a	“violent”	fever	and	was	plainly	“in
danger”—probably	the	onset	of	septicaemia.	The	next	day,	in	an	agitated	and
near-delirious	state,	he	summoned	his	son.	“He	has	this	instant	called	me,”	an
anxious	Lionel	wrote	to	Nat,
to	write	that	he	wishes	you	to	go	on	selling	English	Securities	and	Exchequer
Bills,	as	well	as	£20,000	India	Stock	more.	You	are	also	to	send	an	account	of
the	different	Stocks	on	hand.	I	do	not	know	if	I	misunderstood	him,	but	I	did	not
like	to	ask	for	an	explanation.	[He	also]	said	you	are	to	sell	.	.	.	the	securities	that
the	Portuguese	Government	has	given	for	the	money	they	owe	us,	not	minding
one	or	two	per	cent.
To	Lionel,	such	sales	across	the	board—and	heedless	of	losses	as	large	as	2	per
cent—seemed	so	out	of	character	as	to	be	almost	incomprehensible.	Suddenly
conscious	that	their	father	was	dying,	Nat	and	Anthony	prepared	to	leave	for
Frankfurt.	
2
	But	on	July	28,	before	they	could	reach	him,	his	brothers,	his	wife
and	the	two	sons	present	gathered	round	what	was	now	unmistakably	Nathan’s
deathbed.
It	was	a	decisive	as	well	as	fraught	moment	in	the	history	of	the	firm:	for	the
head	of	the	family	was	dying	before	the	new	partnership	agreement	had	been
signed.	As	Salomon	told	the	Austrian	Chancellor	Metternich	in	a	letter	written
less	than	two	weeks	after	his	brother’s	death:	“The	agreements	between	us	for	a
further	period	of	three	years	[had]	been	drawn	up,	embodying	every	point,	and
they	were	ready	for	signature,	for	we	still	believed	that	our	late	brother	would,
with	God’s	help,	recover.	However,	this	was	not	to	be,	fate	had	decided
otherwise.”	Yet	Nathan	had	just	enough	energy	left	for	a	final	exercise	of	his
domineering	will.	Salomon	described	how	“three	days	before	his	death	he	told
me	all	his	thoughts	and	wishes	with	regard	to	the	will	which	he	then	drew	up,
and	which	I	then	had	written	out	in	accordance	
with	his	intentions.”	He	was	not

--- Page 403 ---
always	coherent	now:	his	brothers	remarked	how	he	alternated	between	“more
decisive	demands”	and	“utterances	already	gradually	interrupted	and	obscured
by	his	sufferings.”	But	his	message	to	the	family	was	intelligible	enough.	Above
all,	they	were	to	maintain	“harmony,	constant	love	and	firm	unity”—a	conscious
echo	of	his	own	father’s	last	words.	What	that	meant	in	practice	he	spelt	out	with
characteristic	precision.
Firstly,	Nathan	called	on	his	sons	to	“carry	on	in	harmony	and	peace	the
banking	house	founded	by	me	under	my	name	in	London.”	Secondly,	he	stressed
that	they	were	to	do	so	in	consultation	with	his	widow:	“My	dear	wife	Hannah	.	.
.	is	to	co-operate	with	my	sons	on	all	important	occasions	and	to	have	a	vote
upon	all	consultations.	It	is	my	express	desire	that	they	shall	not	embark	on	any
transaction	of	importance	without	having	previously	demanded	her	motherly
advice	.	.	.”	Thirdly,	he	expressed	his
earnest	wish	that	the	association	between	my	firm	in	London,	now	carried	on	by
my	four	sons,	and	the	other	Houses,	which	my	four	dear	brothers	direct,	shall	be
allowed	to	continue,	that	they	shall	continue	to	remain	partners	together	.	.	.	I
thereby	recommend	my	sons	in	their	business	always	willingly	to	follow	the
advice	and	recommendations	of	my	brothers	.	.	.
Finally,	as	his	brother	recalled,	Nathan	spelt	out	a	series	of	amendments	to	the
new	partnership	agreement:
On	his	deathbed,	Nathan	asked	me	to	have	the	contract	renewed	with	his
surviving	sons,	with	the	provision	that	it	should	not	be	terminated	within	a
period	of	five	years	.	.	.	The	firm	of	N.	M.	Rothschild	[thus]	remains	unaltered,
the	sons	together	acting	as	a	unit	with	one	vote	in	the	partnership.	The	whole
trading	capital	of	the	four	brothers	and	of	the	late	N.	M.	Rothschild	cannot	be
touched	for	the	next	five	years,	and	nobody	can	draw	anything	out	of	the
working	capital,	while	we	have	reduced	the	interest	that	we	draw	individually
from	four	to	three	per	cent,	so	that	the	partnership	as	a	whole	will,	with	God’s
help,	still	further	improve	its	position	in	the	five	years,	as	the	proportion	of	the
funds	which	can	be	spent	has	been	reduced,	and	there	is	no	necessity	for	the
young	men	to	be	drawn	into	speculative	ventures.
These	wishes	were	duly	incorporated	in	a	hastily	drafted	annexe	to	the	original
agreement.
The	practical	provisions	for	the	future	having	been	made,	Nathan	proffered
some	parting	advice:

--- Page 404 ---
[He]	charged	his	eldest	son,	and	through	him	all	those	who	were	not	present,
always	to	apply	all	their	efforts	to	keep	the	business	property	intact	and	not	to
participate	in	any	risky	ventures.	He	gave	them	much	wise	counsel,	bade	them
avoid	all	evil	company	and	always	to	keep	in	the	way	of	true	virtue,	religion	and
righteousness.	My	late	brother	told	them	that	the	world	would	now	try	to	make
money	out	of	us,	so	that	it	behoved	them	to	be	all	the	more	careful,	and	he
remarked	that,	whether	any	son	had	£50,000	more	or	less,	was	a	matter	of
indifference	to	him.	All	that	mattered	was	that	they	should	hold	together	in	unity.
“He	died,”	Salomon	wrote,	“in	the	full	possession	of	his	faculties,	and	ten
minutes	before	his	death	he	said,	as	he	received	the	last	consolations	of	religion
that	are	customary	with	us:	“It	is	not	necessary	that	I	should	pray	so	much,	for,
believe	me,	according	to	my	convictions	I	have	not	sinned.”	.	.	.	[Then]	to	my
daughter	Betty,	as	she	took	leave	of	him,	he	said	in	the	truly	British	style,	‘Good
night	for	ever.’	”
Five	days	later	a	carrier	pigeon	from	Boulogne	conveyed	the	news	to	London
in	a	single,	three	word	sentence:	“Il	est	mort.”
	
Legacy	and	Legend
The	deaths	of	only	a	handful	of	individuals	in	the	nineteenth	century	can	be	said
to	have	had	economic	effects	comparable	with	those	caused	by	the	death	of
Nathan	Rothschild.	When	the	Austrian	Emperor	Francis	had	died	a	year	before,
there	had	been	a	minor	panic	on	the	Viennese	stock	exchange	and	the	price	of
Austrian	government	bonds	had	fallen	sharply;	but	the	Rothschilds	had
intervened	to	prop	up	the	markets.	When	Nathan	died,	by	contrast,	it	appeared
that	the	markets’	strongest	prop	had	been	removed.	The	financial	press	had	been
anxiously	reporting	on	Nathan’s	health	for	nearly	a	week	before	the	news	of	his
death	was	first	published.	On	July	27	
The	Times
	had	felt	able	to	report	(wrongly)
that	his	condition	was	“not	at	all	dangerous.”	On	August	2	it	categorically	denied
reports	in	other	papers	that	he	had	died.	But,	as	its	“Money	Market	and	City
Intelligence”	column	admitted,	opinion	in	the	City	was	less	sanguine:
The	dangerous	state	in	which	Mr	Rothschild	remained,	by	the	accounts	from
Frankfort,	has	again	today	had	its	effect	upon	Spanish	and	Portuguese	securities,
and	a	further	depression	of	1½	per	cent	has	taken	place	with	them	.	.	.	[I]t	seems
generally	accepted	that	the	firm	would	call	in	all	the	loans	advanced	upon	those
securities	by	Mr	Rothschild,	and	hence	the	anxiety	of	the	borrowers	to	dispose	of
their	stock,	so	as	to	be	in	a	position	to	meet	the	demands	upon	them.	The	sales

--- Page 405 ---
today	were	extensive,	but	from	the	weak	state	of	the	market	it	was,	in	fact,
possible	to	realize	but	a	limited	amount	.	.	.	There	was	very	little	business	doing
in	the	share	market.	Consols	have	partly	recovered	the	depression	they	sustained
on	Saturday,	in	consequence	of	the	accounts	from	Frankfort	above	referred	to,
but	they	do	not,	on	the	whole,	present	a	very	firm	appearance.
When	the	news	of	Nathan’s	death	was	finally	confirmed	the	following	day,	there
was—paradoxically—a	slight	rally,	suggesting	that	the	markets	had	been
discounting	the	event:
Government	securities	of	all	descriptions,	but	more	particularly	those	of	the
foreign	markets,	have	been	falling	in	value	during	the	week,	in	anticipation	of
this	event,	but	its	confirmation	has	had	a	contrary	effect,	probably	on	account	of
the	understanding	there	is	that	his	business,	under	the	management	of	his	sons,
will	go	on	as	usual.
However,	this	was	only	temporary.	For	Nathan’s	death	coincided	with,	and
perhaps	also	exacerbated,	the	onset	of	the	international	financial	crisis	which	had
been	developing	throughout	his	illness.
The	period	from	May	1834	until	July	1836	had	been	one	of	general	financial
stability.	The	price	of	consols	had	fallen	below	90	only	in	a	handful	of	weeks,
and	it	had	been	above	91	for	the	last	six	months	of	the	period.	But	from	the	first
week	of	August—when	the	news	of	Nathan’s	death	broke—until	the	end	of	the
year,	it	fell	steadily,	reaching	a	nadir	of	87	in	November	(see	illustration	11.i).
Just	days	before,	on	July	21,	Bank	rate	(in	effect,	the	Bank	of	England’s	base
lending	rate)	had	been	raised	for	the	first	time	in	nine	years	from	4	to	4.5	per
cent;	on	September	1,	it	went	up	by	another	half	point.	The	Rothschilds’	own
profit	and	loss	accounts	show	that	in	1836	the	London	house	suffered	its	first
loss—equivalent	to	more	than	4	per	cent	of	its	capital—since	the	revolutionary
year	of	1830.	These	losses	very	probably	accrued	in	the	second	half	of	the	year.
Nathan’s	
Times
	obituarist—probably	his	friend	Thomas	Massa	Alsager—was
not	exaggerating	when	he	called	Nathan’s	death	“one	of	the	most	important
events	for	the	city	and	perhaps	for	Europe,	which	has	occurred	for	a	very	long
time”:	for	his	“financial	transactions	[had]	certainly	pervaded	the	whole	of	the
continent,	and	may	be	said	for	years	past	to	have	exercised	more	or	less
influence	on	money	business	of	every	description.”	“The	variations	of	all	stocks
&	their	wild	fluctuations,”	remarked	Alexander	Baring,	“seem	to	arise	much
from	Nathan’s	death.	In	the	end	the	emancipation	of	the	money	market	will	be	a
benefit,	but	the	sudden	cessation	of	a	despotic	rule	is	apt	to	exhibit	such

--- Page 406 ---
symptoms.”	Similar	views	were	expressed	some	months	later	in	a	pamphlet	on
monetary	matters	by	David	Salomons,	who	described	Nathan’s	death	as	“an
event	of	some	importance	in	the	derangement	of	the	circulation	of	the	country”:
It	is	well	known	with	what	dexterity	that	eminent	individual	managed	the
exchanges;	how	he	prided	himself	in	distributing	his	immense	resources	so	that
no	operation	of	his	own	should	abstract	for	a	lengthened	period	the	bullion	of	the
Bank	of	England;	and	although	it	may	be	urged	he	kept	the	exchanges	in	an
artificial	state,	and	therefore	produced	no	ultimate	good,	yet	the	sudden
withdrawal	of	this	artificial	aid	in	an	inopportune	moment	has	tended	to
aggravate	evils	which	his	energy	and	promptitude	might	have	checked.	The
difficulties	which	we	have	been	experiencing	since	his	death	induce	me	to	think
that	no	one	ever	displayed	greater	ability	than	he	did	in	equalising	the
exchanges;	and	I	attribute	much	of	the	late	embarrassment	to	the	loss	of	that
activity,	zeal	and	enterprise,	which	he	always	displayed	in	times	of	financial
difficulty,	and	although	the	operations	of	his	important	house	are	continued,	it	is
impossible	at	once	to	replace	that	moral	influence	which	the	acknowledged	good
judgement	of	the	head	of	that	opulent	firm	had	established	for	himself	not	only
in	Great	Britain	but	throughout	the	whole	of	the	commercial	world.
It	is	understandable,	then,	that	the	financial	world	paid	more	than	ordinary
respects	to	the	deceased.	As	
The	Times
	described	it,	Nathan’s	funeral	cortège	on
the	morning	of	Monday,	August	8
was	headed	by	a	party	of	the	city	police	four	a-breast,	followed	by	an	inspector
on	horseback;	next	came	several	other	city	officers,	and	these	were	immediately
followed	by	the	hearse.	The	sons	and	immediate	relations	of	the	deceased
followed	in	mourning	coaches;	and	the	whole	line	of	these	vehicles	consisted	of
40,	containing	numerous	branches	of	the	
Goldsmid,	Cohen,	Samuel	and	Israel
families.	After	the	mourning	coaches	came	the	carriages	of	the	deceased	and	his
two	sons,	and	behind	these	the	carriages	of	the	Lord	Mayor,	Mr	Sheriff
Salomons,	and	a	line	of	foreign	Ambassadors’	and	noblemen’s	carriages,	in	all	to
the	number	of	35.	The	whole	procession	consequently	consisted	of	75	carriages;
and	it	was	more	than	a	quarter	of	an	hour	in	passing	through	Cornhill.	The	crowd
of	people	who	had	come	to	this	part	of	the	city	was	so	great	that	many	of	the
shops	were	shut	to	protect	the	windows	from	the	pressure	and	there	was	scarcely
a	window	in	the	line	that	was	not	crowded	with	spectators.
11.i:	The	weekly	closing	price	of	3	per	cent	consols	in	1836.

--- Page 407 ---
The	occasion	was	appropriately	commemorated.	A	lithograph	was	produced,

--- Page 408 ---
The	Shadow	of	a	Great	Man
,	which	depicted	in	silhouette	the	already	well-
known	image	of	Nathan	in	front	of	his	pillar	in	the	Royal	Exchange,	holding
four	keys	to	represent	the	succession	of	his	four	sons	(see	illustration	11.ii).	This
image	was	reproduced	by	several	different	artists,	including	one	of	Nathan’s	own
clerks	(see	illustration	11.iii).
Just	two	days	after	the	funeral,	the	poetaster	William	Heseltine	published	his
“Reflections	at	the	Grave	of	N.	M.	Rothschild	Esq.,”	verses	which	tempered
formu	laic	praise	of	“the	Croesus	of	the	Land”	with	just	a	hint	of	realism:
11.ii:	Mons.	Edouart,
	
The	Shadow	of	a	Great	Man,
	
published	by	J.	Knight,
Standidge	and	Lemon	(August	6,	1836).

--- Page 409 ---
11.iii:	R.	Cullen,
	
SHADOW	of	the	late	N.	M.	ROTHSCHILD	ESQ
.	(1837).
.	.	.	Europe’s	kings	in	adverse	hour	
Have	sought	and	found	thine	aid.	
More	than	their	swords	thy	gold	hath	done,	

--- Page 410 ---
In	many	a	bloodless	triumph	won,	
And	many	a	panic	stay’d	.	.	.
Upon	thy	struggling	path	of	life	
Strong	lights	and	shades	were	cast,	
Which	led	through	toil,	suspense	and	strife	
To	triumph	at	the	last!	
In	the	continual	conflict	then,	
With	selfish,	artful,	flattering	men	
Through	which	thy	spirit	pass’d	
What	wonder	though	some	stains	of	earth,	
Were
	blended	with	thine	inward	worth.
Though	cold	unto	a	stranger’s	sight,	
Thy	heart	was	generous	found,	
Nor	didst	thou,	like	the	Upas,	blight	
The	lowly	shrubs	around;	
But	friends,	protected	at	thy	side,	
Grew	with	thy	growth	and	flourish’d	wide	
In	safe	and	prosperous	ground:	
As	unto	Egypt’s	saviour	came,	
All	that	could	boast	of	Israel’s	name.
Mourning	rings	and	broaches	were	produced,	as	well	as	a	medal	featuring
Nathan’s	face.	There	was	even	a	printed	silk	mourning	scarf,	again	picturing
Nathan	at	his	pillar,	bearing	a	rather	more	succinct	tribute	(in	four	languages)
—“Equally	Distinguished	for	his	Commercial	Skill	&	Enterprize	&	for	his
Charitable	and	Benevolent	Disposition”—as	well	as	a	list	of	his	best-known
loans	and	a	statement	of	his	total	wealth.	Such	mementoes	(as	the	scarf’s
multilingual	text	suggests)	reached	an	international	audience.	Copies	of	the	scarf
itself	were	sold	in	Vienna;	Heseltine’s	verses	inspired	a	similar	German	tribute;
and	obituaries	appeared	not	only	in	the	English	press	but	also	in	the	
Journal	des
Débats
	and	(at	Salomon’s	prompting)	in	the	
Allgemeine	Zeitung
.
Needless	to	say,	it	was	not	only	the	financial	community	which	mourned	the
great	man’s	demise.	As	
The	Times
	mentioned,	the	diplomatic	and	political	world
was	also	well	represented	at	the	funeral:	among	the	mourners	were	the	Prussian,
Russian,	Austrian	and	Neapolitan	ambassadors,	as	well	Lord	Stewart	and—
according	to	one	account—the	Duke	of	Marlborough.	And,	of	course,	the	Jewish
community	also	turned	out	in	force.	“A	great	number	of	Jews	.	.	.	had	assembled
long	before	the	hour	fixed	for	the	funeral”	and	a	special	delegation	of	children

--- Page 411 ---
from	the	Jews’	Free	School	preceded	the	coffin.	At	the	Great	Synagogue	in	Duke
Place,	the	Chief	Rabbi	Solomon	Hirschell	preached	a	sermon;	and	Nathan’s
remains	were	finally	buried	in	the	north-west	corner	of	the	Jewish	burial	ground
in	Whitechapel	Road.	Seven	members	of	the	community	of	the	Great	Synagogue
attended	New	Court	daily	in	the	year	after	Nathan’s	death	to	form	the	required
“minyan”	for	the	Kaddish,	the	traditional	prayers	for	the	dead.
How	are	we	to	account	for	this	extraordinary	public	interest	in	the	death	of	a
German-born,	Jewish	banker?	The	obvious	answer	is	that	Nathan	Rothschild
was	quite	simply	the	richest	man	in	Britain	and	therefore,	given	Britain’s
economic	lead	at	this	time,	almost	certainly	the	richest	man	in	the	world.	His
share	of	the	combined	capital	of	the	five	houses	which	he	ran	in	partnership	with
his	brothers	was	£1,478,541	when	he	died	(a	quarter	of	the	total	of	just	over	£6
million).	He	had	also	given	his	children	before	his	death	around	£800,000,	and
was	able	in	his	will	to	bequeath	in	total	a	further	£1,192,500	to	them	and	other
members	of	his	family.	This	implies	that	Nathan’s	total	wealth—excluding	his
properties	in	Piccadilly	and	Gunnersbury	Park	but	including	money	he	had
already	given	his	children	prior	to	making	his	will—was	around	£3.5	million.
This	was	a	fortune	vastly	in	excess	of	the	Rothschilds’	nearest	banking	rivals
in	London,	Baring	Brothers,	whose	capital	in	the	year	of	Nathan’s	death	was	a
mere	£776,650.	It	also	easily	outstripped	the	money	accumulated	by
contemporary	industrialists	and	the	largely	inherited	fortunes	of	the	country’s
wealthiest	aristocratic	landowners.	Rubinstein’s	figures	for	British	millionaires
do	not	give	precise	figures	for	fortunes	in	excess	of	£1	million	before	1858;	but
it	seems	unlikely	that	
any	of	the	eleven	other	individuals	listed	for	the	period
1810-56	left	his	heirs	as	much	as	Nathan:	the	nearest	was	that	of	the	banker
William	J.	Denison,	who	left	£2.3	million	including	real	estate	worth	£600,000
in	1849.	It	was	not	until	1857	that	someone	left	more	than	Nathan	to	his	heirs—
the	textile	warehouseman	and	Anglo-American	banker	James	Morrison,	who	left
between	£4	million	and	£6	million	at	his	death.	Nathan	not	only	died	richer	than
the	ironmaster	Richard	Crawshay	and	the	cotton	manufacturers	Robert	Peel	and
Richard	Arkwright;	he	also	left	more	than	the	Duke	of	Queensberry,	the	Duke	of
Sutherland	and	the	Duke	of	Cleveland.
Of	course,	it	is	far	from	easy	to	compare	a	fortune	such	as	Nathan’s,	which
overwhelmingly	took	the	form	of	financial	assets,	with	the	wealth	of	the	great
landowners.	However,	the	incomes	from	their	different	forms	of	capital	can	be
compared.	The	available	figures	suggest	that	a	handful	of	aristocrats	had
incomes	comparably	large,	if	not	slightly	larger:	the	Duke	of	Northumberland,

--- Page 412 ---
Earl	Grosvenor,	the	Marquess	of	Stafford	and	the	Earl	of	Bridgewater	were	all
said	to	have	£100,000	a	year	“clear	of	everything”	in	1819;	and	not	far	behind
them	were	the	dukes	of	Bedford,	Richmond,	Sutherland	and	Buccleuch,	the
marquesses	of	Westminster	and	Bute,	and	the	earls	of	Derby,	Lonsdale,	Dudley
and	Leicester.	The	6th	Duke	of	Devonshire,	to	take	one	example,	had	an	income
of	between	£80,000	and	£100,000	in	the	decade	of	Nathan’s	death.	By
comparison,	Nathan’s	income	in	the	last	five	full	years	of	his	life	(taking	the
average	profits	of	the	London	house	as	a	proxy)	averaged	£87,623	per	annum.
However,	these	figures	overlook	a	vital	factor	which	gave	Nathan	financial
superiority	over	his	noble	contemporaries.	He	had	debtors:	they	had	debts.	By
the	1830s	the	Duke	of	Devonshire’s	lavish	lifestyle	had	increased	the
encumbrances	on	his	estates	from	£593,000	to	£700,000;	and	interest	charges	on
these	debts	consumed	fully	half	of	his	income,	with	a	further	£36,000	per	annum
being	consumed	by	the	costs	of	his	household	at	Chatsworth.	Indeed,	a	number
of	the	great	landowners	were	heading	rapidly	for	the	financial	rocks	at	the	very
time	that	Nathan	died.	By	1844	the	Duke’s	debts	were	just	short	of	£1	million,
and	he	was	increasingly	obliged	to	sell	off	land	to	keep	afloat.	In	1848	the	Duke
of	Buckingham	actually	went	bankrupt,	with	encumbrances	on	his	estates	in
excess	of	£1.5	million.	The	idea	that	Nathan	Rothschild	had	died	“leaving
Property	to	the	Amount	of	5,000,000	Sterling”	was	therefore	in	itself	a	matter
for	public	curiosity,	not	to	say	astonishment:	hence	its	publication	at	the	very
centre	of	the	mourning	scarf	described	above.	The	figure	may	have	been	a	slight
exaggeration,	but	it	was	a	pardonable	one.	In	terms	of	
net
	wealth	he	was	in	a
league	of	his	own.
What	was	even	more	remarkable	was	how	much	more	Nathan	Rothschild	was
worth	when	he	died	than	when	he	had	first	arrived	in	Britain.	According	to	his
own	account,	he	had	arrived	in	England	with	just	£20,000.	Moreover,	he	had
worked	his	way	up	into	the	City	from	the	much	less	refined	textiles	sector,
having	begun	his	British	business	career	as	a	cloth	merchant	in	Manchester.	He,
more	than	most	wealthy	Jews	of	the	nineteenth	century,	really	had	gone	from
“rags”	to	riches.	As	such,	he	embodied	perfectly	the	developing	nineteenth-
century	ideal	of	the	self-made	man.	And	of	course	he	was	not	the	only	rich
Rothschild.	Muhlstein’s	figures	suggest	that	James	was	already	probably	the
richest	man	in	France.	In	the	less	prosperous	parts	of	Europe	where	they	lived,
Amschel,	Salomon	and	Carl	were	even	further	ahead	of	their	rivals.	Together,
the	Rothschilds	were	without	question	the	richest	family	in	the	world.
To	poorer	Jews	in	particular,	Nathan’s	extraordinary	rise	to	riches	had	an

--- Page 413 ---
almost	mystical	significance—hence	the	legend	of	the	“Hebrew	talisman,”	the
magical	source	of	his	good	luck,	which	became	associated	with	him	in	Jewish
lore.	This	extraordinary	story—a	version	of	which	was	published	by	an
anonymous	author	in	London	just	four	years	after	Nathan’s	death—is	one	of	the
most	bizarre	early	examples	of	what	might	be	called	the	“Rothschild	myth.”
Although	apparently	by	a	Jewish	author,	the	possibility	that	(like	the	later	and
much	better	known	
Protocols	of	the	Elders	of	Zion
)	it	was	in	fact	the	work	of	an
anti-Jewish	
agent	provocateur
	cannot	be	ruled	out,	so	militant	is	its	tone.	Indeed,
the	story	anticipates	many	of	the	more	fantastic	allegations	of	the	overtly	anti-
Rothschild	French	pamphleteers	of	the	1840s.
The	story	is	narrated	by	a	mysterious	phantom,	who	describes	himself	as
“detesting	.	.	.	the	followers	of	the	Nazarene,	with	a	most	holy	and	fervent
detestation”	and	having	been	“doomed	to	long	ages	of	agony	and	travail”	by	“the
avenging	one	of	Nazareth.”	He	is	the	custodian	of	a	talisman,	which	confers	on
its	holder	magical	powers.	“Could	I	not	command	gold?	Yea	.	.	.	had	I	not	the
talisman?—Had	I	not	the	ineffable	words?—Could	I	not	buy	the	whole	evil	race,
from	the	false	prophet	even	to	the	lowest	among	the	evil	genii?—Could	I	not
task	them	in	the	midnight	incantation,	and,	lo!	would	not	plenty	make	the	hearts
of	my	people	glad	at	sunrise?”	His	aim	is	to	give	the	talisman	to	“a	zealous	hater
of	the	Nazarenes,—a	man	exceedingly	desirous	of	working	their	degradation	and
destruction	.	.	.	a	champion	to	avenge	the	wrongs	of	Israel.”
Arriving	in	Frankfurt	during	the	Napoleonic	occupation	of	the	town,	the
narrator	witnesses	hideous	scenes	of	pillage	by	French	troops.	The	Frankfurt
Jews	in	particular	are	the	objects	of	systematic	extortion.	In	a	looted	office	in	the
heart	of	the	Jewish	quarter,	he	comes	across	a	young	man,	“his	eyes	.	.	.	red	with
much	weeping,	and	his	cheeks	pale	and	haggard,	as	much	with	sorrow	and	long
vigils.”	As	he	looks	on,	a	French	soldier	bursts	into	the	office	demanding	yet
more	money.	“	‘God	of	Abraham,	Isaac,	and	Jacob!’	[the	young	man]	exclaimed,
as,	kneeling,	he	lifted	up	his	trembling	hands	to	the	east,	‘how	long,	O	God!	how
long?	.	.	.	How	long	.	.	.	shall	the	unbeliever	triumph,	and	thy	people	be	a	jest
and	a	bye	word?’	”	Unmoved,	the	Frenchman	seizes	his	last	remaining	object	of
value,	the	family	teraphim	(household	shrine).	After	he	departs,	the	young	man
“cursed	the	Nazarenes,	and	prayed	in	fervent	tones	that	he	might	have	the	power
to	crush	them,	and	vowed	by	the	ineffable	name	of	Jehovah	to	lose	no
opportunity	of	despoiling	their	wealth,	and	trampling	down,	yea,	utterly	bruising,
their	black	and	unsparing	and	unbelieving	hearts.”	“Here,”	declares	the	narrator,
“was	a	servant	fit	for	the	great	master—here	a	champion	fit	for	the	great	cause.

--- Page 414 ---
His	wrongs	.	.	.	would	make	him	a	faithful	and	very	zealous	foeman	of	the
Nazarene	of	whatever	nation.	Here	was,	at	length,	the	man,	the	long	hoped,	the
long	sought,	who	should	build	up	the	temple	of	the	Lord,	and	make	Israel	and
Judah	feared	and	obeyed	in	all	the	quarters	of	the	earth.”
The	phantom	narrator	therefore	makes	himself	visible	(“clad	in	the	flowing
robes	of	the	far	East,”	he	is	“pallid	as	a	corpse	.	.	.	with	hoary	hair	and	beard”
and	“great	black	eyes,	that	shot	forth	lurid	fires,	upon	which	no	mortal	could
look	and	not	
tremble”).	“I	spake	the	words	of	power,	and	the	talisman	was	once
more	committed	to	a	man	of	my	persecuted	race,”	on	this	occasion	in	the	form	of
“a	ring	holding	the	keys	of	his	rifled	drawers.”	“I	gave	to	that	ring	the	influence
and	might	of	the	signet	of	the	wise	Solomon.	Having	done	this,	I	commanded	the
young	man	to	name	some	wish	for	instant	accomplishment;	and	ere	he	had
thrice,	according	to	my	instructions,	whirled	the	ring	upon	his	forefinger,	steps
were	heard.”	A	man	enters	(later	revealed	to	be	a	prince),	weighed	down	with	a
huge	bag	of	gold,	which	he	entrusts	to	the	young	man.	Needless	to	say,	it
contains	“
the	very	sum	for	which	he	had	wished	aloud	while	making	his	first
essay	of	the	power	of	the	talisman
.”
“Men	of	the	accursed	and	plundering	race!”	the	narrator	exclaims,	revealing	at
last	the	identity	of	the	chosen	one:
Ye	whose	estates	were	within	a	brief	space	to	have	been	within	his	grasp;	ye,
whose	equipages	and	whose	liveried	lacquies	I	so	lately	saw	following	to	his
premature	grave	the	man	of	Israel	whom	I	thus	enabled	to	war	upon	ye	in	your
vulnerable	quarter,—accursed	and	detested	Nazarenes—the	young	Israelite,	to
whom	I	thus	committed	the	Talisman,	and	who	thus	early	and	thus	fully
experienced	its	mighty	power—he	who	for	years	despoiled	you	of	the	gold
which	ye	make	to	yourselves,	even	as	a	god—that	man	whom	ye	fawned	upon,
even	while	you	hated	him,	and	knew	that	he	despised	you—that	man	was
NATHAN	MEYER	[
sic
]	ROTHSCHILD.	[He]	waxed	wealthy,	more	wealthy
than	any	who	had	gone	before	him,	his	riches	astonished	the	gentiles	and	very
justly	they	said,	such	amazing	wealth	could	not	be	amassed	by	one	man,	in	so
short	a	time	by	any	human	agency—they	were	right,	it	was	the	agency	of	the
talisman	.	.	.
There	then	follows	a	brief	but	classic	mythologised	account	of	Nathan’s	rise
from	the	ruins	of	looted	Frankfurt	to	fame	and	fortune.	“He	came	by	my
direction	to	this	paradise	of	loan-contracting	and	speculating	fools,	and	became
the	leviathan	of	the	money	markets	of	Europe	.	.	.	the	loan	contractor,	the	jobber,

--- Page 415 ---
and	the	money	lender	of	the	gentile	kings.”	When	Napoleon	(encouraged	by	the
narrator)	invaded	Russia,	“Rothschild	was	right	speedy	to	make	[his]	ruin	utter
and	inevitable—not	to	be	repaired.”	When	the	Emperor	returned	from	Elba,	“by
whom	was	his	hope	blasted?	.	.	.	simply	by	Nathan	Meyer	[
sic
]	Rothschild
armed	with	the	Talisman.”	The	British	government	needed	money	not	only	to
pay	Wellington’s	army	at	Waterloo,	but	also	to	bribe	“the	Generals	and	the
Senators	of	France”	to	desert	Napoleon.	“There	was	but	one	man	on	earth	
who
both
	COULD	and	
would
	provide	the	millions	of	golden	pounds,	required	for	the
instant	purposes	of	the	English	minister.—
That	man	was
	
ROTHSCHILD.	By	my
instructions,	he	let	the	Minister	have	the	hard	gold	.	.	.”
But	all	this,	it	transpires,	was	for	a	higher	purpose:	for	Nathan	lent	the	money
only	“on	one	condition	.	.	.	the	re-establishment	of	Judah’s	kingdom—the
rebuilding	of	thy	towers,	Oh!	Jerusalem!”:
That	most	elaborate	of	bad	jokes,	history,	will,	no	doubt,	say	that	the	Jew
Rothschild	lent	the	Nazarene	elder	called	Lord	Liverpool,	the	sum	necessary	to
crush	Napoleon	Buonaparte,	in	consideration	of	some	such	Judean	motive	as	25
per	cent	interest.	The	writers	of	history,	in	that	case,	will,	as	usual,	lie	.	.	.
Rothschild	was	commanded	to	lend	the	
money	.	.	.	[in	return	for]	the	restoration
of	Judea	to	our	ancient	race;	the	guarantee	of	England	for	the	independence	of
the	kingdom	of	Judea	.	.	.	In	twelve	hours,	the	millions	were	in	the	possession	of
the	minister,	and	a	secret	agreement,	guaranteed	by	the	sign	manual	of	royalty,
was	in	the	possession	of	Rothschild,	for	the	restoration	of	Judea	in	21	years	from
the	day	on	which	Napoleon	should	finally	be	driven	from	France.
And	here	is	the	twist	in	the	tale:
This	very	year	my	task	should	have	been	completed;	
would
	have	been
completed,	but	he,	Rothschild	.	.	.	at	the	twelfth	hour	proved	false	.	.	.	His	long
round	of	success	(unchecked	save	once	when	I	reproved	his	presumption	with
the	loss	of	a	hundred	thousand	pounds	in	a	single	day’s	business	in	Spanish
Stock)	.	.	.	made	him	more	and	more	purse-proud	.	.	.	[so]	that	it	was	rather	with
grief	than	surprise	that	I	recently	heard	from	his	own	lips	that	he	had	basely	sold
the	agreement	for	the	restoration	of	Judea	for	the	promise	of	a	petty	English
Emancipation	Bill	for	our	people,	and	a	petty	English	peerage	for	himself.	This
delectable	job,	this	high-minded	bargain,	was	to	be	completed	in	the	ensuing
years,	by	which	time	the	purse-proud,	haughty	renegade	reckoned	upon	being
worth	5,000,000	£	of	money.	He	was	already	worth	above	four.

--- Page 416 ---
But	of	course,	having	betrayed	his	master,	these	vain	dreams	could	only	be
dashed.	“His	
talisman
	disappeared,	and	I	took	care	he	should	know	it	had
disappeared	forever.	He	never	ventured	upon	the	Exchange	again,	or	the	scribe
who	wrote	his	will	should	have	been	saved	much	trouble	and	time.”
Did	I	give	him	the	talisman,	to	enable	him	like	Sampson	to	Gideon	to
intrude	his	family	and	found	a	peerage	among	the	Normans?	or	to	stifle
his	conscience	with	the	weight	of	riches?	or	to	flatter	it	with	ostentatious
charities?	No	Israelite	can	put	his	hand	to	the	plough	of	this	great	work,
look	back	and	live!
In	this	bizarre	fantasy,	Nathan’s	death	therefore	becomes	his	punishment	for
his	failure	to	fulfil	his	promise	to	restore	Palestine	to	the	Jews;	and	the	narrator
moves	on	in	search	of	a	new	“heaven-appointed	champion”	to	bear	the	talisman.
Like	a	Jewish	version	of	the	Nibelung	saga,	with	its	magic	ring	which	corrupts
as	it	empowers,	the	story	of	the	“Hebrew	talisman”	vividly	illustrates	the
mystique	that	as	early	as	1840	had	begun	to	surround	the	career	of	Nathan
Rothschild	and	his	brothers.
It	is	a	good	illustration	of	the	wide	currency	of	such	legends	that,	shortly	after
Nathan’s	death	an	American	paper—evidently	not	a	Jewish	one—reported	that
“an	extra	number	of	watchmen,	after	the	interment,	will	be	placed	at	the	grave
for	a	length	of	time,	to	prevent	the	committal	of	any	sacrilegious	act	towards	the
deceased.”	We	suppose	that	this	is	a	hint	to	“our	peo	plesh”	[
sic
]	to	keep	their
fingers	off	the	fingerer	of	millions.	A	rumor	is	current	that	a	large	sum	is	bid	for
one	of	his	ogles—in	the	hope	that	a	“Jew’s	eye”	would	be	worth	a	fortune.
As	Nathan	Rothschild	died,	a	myth	was	born	which	was	to	prove	as	enduringly
potent	and	dangerous	as	any	myth	of	the	nineteenth	century.
Succession
To	whom—in	reality—did	the	“talisman”	of	Rothschild	leadership	pass	on	the
death	of	“the	commanding	general?”	The	traditional	assumption	has	been	that
the	youngest	of	the	five	brothers,	James,	immediately	inherited	Nathan’s	mantle.
That	was	his	friend	Heine’s	view.	“Since	the	death	of	his	distinguished	brother	in
England,	all	the	political	significance	of	the	House	of	Rothschild”	was
concentrated	in	his	hands,	he	wrote	not	long	afterwards.	“The	head,	or	rather	the
brain,	of	this	family	is	Baron	James,	a	remarkable	man	.	.	.”	It	is	not	difficult	to
see	why	Heine	assumed	this.	In	an	earlier	piece	written	in	March	1841,	he	had
portrayed	James	only	half-ironically	as	a	kind	of	financial	emperor,	literally

--- Page 417 ---
holding	court	in	the	rue	Laffitte	at	the	centre	of	“a	labyrinth	of	halls,	a	barracks
of	wealth.”	Indeed,	he	noticed	that	James—in	imitation	of	his	brother	Nathan—
had	begun	to	decorate	his	office	with	“busts	of	all	the	European	monarchs	who
have	contracted	loans	from	his	firm.”	Like	Nathan	too,	James	was	an
intimidating	figure	in	this,	his	natural	habitat.	“One	must	have	respect	for	this
man,”	Heine	went	on,	“if	only	because	of	the	respect	he	inspires	in	others”:
I	like	best	to	visit	him	in	the	offices	of	his	banking	house,	where	I	can
philosophically	observe	people—not	only	the	Chosen	People,	but	all	the	others
too—bow	and	scrape	before	him.	There	you	may	watch	a	twisting	and	bending
of	backbones	such	as	the	most	accomplished	acrobat	would	find	difficult.	I	have
seen	people	who	twitched	convulsively	when	they	drew	near	the	great	Baron	as
though	they	had	touched	a	Voltaic	battery.	Even	while	approaching	the	door	of
his	private	office	many	experience	a	thrill	of	awe	such	as	Moses	once	felt	on
Mount	Horeb	when	he	realised	that	he	was	standing	on	holy	ground.	And	just	as
Moses	then	removed	his	shoes,	so	many	a	broker	or	commission	agent	who
dared	to	enter	Rothschild’s	inner	sanctum	would	willingly	remove	his	boots	if	he
were	not	afraid	that	the	odour	of	his	feet	might	give	offence.
“That	inner	sanctum	is	a	remarkable	place	indeed,”	Heine	continued;	“it	inspires
sublime	thoughts	and	feelings,	like	the	sight	of	the	ocean	or	the	starry	heavens.
Here	we	may	see	the	littleness	of	man	and	the	greatness	of	God.”
Of	course,	Heine	was	letting	his	comic	imagination	run	away	with	him
completely	when	he	described	“a	stock	exchange	speculator”	doffing	his	hat
respectfully	before	James’s	“mighty”	chamber	pot;	or	an	unidentified	friend
offering	to	“give	half	his	nose	to	purchase”	the	honour	of	lunch	with	the	Baron.
But	the	recollections	of	just	such	a	minor	denizen	of	the	bourse,	Ernest	Feydeau,
vividly	confirm	the	quasi-regal	status	James	enjoyed	in	Paris,	an	irascible	despot
in	a	chaotic	court,	besieged	from	nine	in	the	morning	until	the	bourse	closed	at
four	by	a	procession	of	sycophantic	brokers,	jobbers	and	assorted	hangers-on.
James,	recalled	Feydeau	(who	visited	the	rue	Laffitte	regularly	in	the	1850s),
felt	obliged	to	receive	all	these	sullen,	busy	people,	sometimes	sickeningly
banal,	almost	all	of	them	obsequious	in	their	manner,	dull	in	their	solicitations,
servile	in	their	flattery.	Leaning	back	in	his	chair,	he	absent-mindedly	took	the
quotation	handed	to	him	by	each	of	these	uninteresting	beings,	who	filed	from
door	to	door	in	front	of	his	desk,	
barely	cast	a	glance	over	it,	sometimes	allowing
himself	the	malicious	pleasure	of	dropping	it	in	his	wastepaper	basket,	usually
giving	it	back	to	whoever	had	presented	it	to	him	and	passing	on	to	another.

--- Page 418 ---
As	he	ran	this	depressing	gauntlet	day	after	day,	Feydeau	never	ceased	to
marvel	at	the	“truly	infernal	din,	the	bewildering	disorder	in	the	middle	of	which
the	baron	found	the	means	of	handling—every	day,	and	without	an	instant	of
respite—the	most	colossal	financial	operations.”	The	office	was	filled	with
the	deafening	and	unceasing	cacophony,	the	incessant	racket	produced	by	the
banging	of	doors,	the	coming	and	going	of	employees	carrying	despatches	or
requesting	signatures.	The	importunities	of	the	brokers’	clerks	and	the	jobbers
looking	for	orders	added	no	little	noise	to	the	tumult,	which	gave	the	office	of
“Monsieur	le	baron”	an	air	akin	to	the	Tower	of	Babel.	Here	all	the	tongues	of
the	world	were	spoken,	including	Hebrew.	A	crowd	of	friends	of	all	three	sexes
—men,	women	and	beggars—followed	one	after	the	other	throughout	the	day,
all	in	quest	of	news.	There	were	jewellers	opening	their	cases	of	precious	stones
before	the	baron’s	ailing	eyes,	porcelain	dealers	and	art	dealers	coming	to	offer
their	choicest	items.	Pretty	women	wove	their	way	everywhere,	soliciting	for
information—or	something	else.	And	across	this	merciless	and	incessant
procession,	while	the	brain	of	the	toiling	millionaire	must	have	been	bursting
under	the	accumulation	of	figures	and	calculations,	the	youngest	of	his	sons—a
large	and	chubby-cheeked	child	whom	I	can	still	picture—would	periodically
charge	in,	using	his	father’s	cane	as	a	horse,	and	blowing	on	his	trumpet	like	the
angel	of	the	valley	of	J[eh]osaphat.
And	the	poor	baron	did	not	utter	a	word	of	complaint,	did	not	so	much	as
frown.
He	“did	not	even	have	the	right	to	eat	and	sleep	in	peace.	From	five	in	the
morning,	in	winter	and	in	summer,	the	bringers	and	takers	of	news	besieged	his
door	.	.	.	When	business	required	it,	he	dined	with	his	entire	family	in	a	small
room	beside	his	office,	seasoning	his	meal	with	stock	exchange	quotations,	while
the	procession	of	brokers	continued	round	his	dinner	table	with	merciless
persistence.”	Indeed,	at	times	James	seemed	to	Feydeau	less	a	king	holding	court
than	a	prisoner	of	his	own	work	ethic.	What	else	could	explain	the	willingess	of
a	man	who	was	already	so	rich	to	continue	working	under	such	gruelling
conditions	but	“a	singular	tyranny	of	habit,	as	much	as	a	commendable
sentiment	of	professional	ambition?”
Ultimately,	however,	James	was	more	to	be	abhorred	for	his	tyranny	towards
others—including	Feydeau	himself—than	pitied:
One	of	[his]	malicious	habits	.	.	.	consisted	in	not	saying	a	word,	not	even	lifting
his	eyes	to	look	at	the	intermediary,	leaving	him	there,	with	a	look	of

--- Page 419 ---
embarrassment,	his	hat	in	his	hand	and	standing	on	one	leg,	and	passing	his
quotation	successively	to	all	the	members	of	his	family,	who	paid	scarcely	any
more	attention	to	it	than	he	had.	One	day,	when	he	had	played	this	wretched	trick
on	me,	and	as	I	was	showing,	despite	myself,	some	impatience,	he	felt	obliged	to
pay	me	a	courtesy,	after	his	fashion,	in	the	charitable	aim	of	calming	me	down.	It
was	the	month	of	January,	and	on	the	table	there	was	a	dish	full	of	large,	white
strawberries.	With	his	fork	he	picked	the	most	appetising	of	these	strawberries,
the	one	which	lay	on	the	top	of	the	pile,	and,	presenting	it	to	me	as	he	might
have	done	to	a	parrot,	said:
“Vould	you	like	von?”
Feydeau	was	naturally	mortified	by	this	humiliating	treatment,	especially	as
James’s	wife	and	daughter	were	evidently	witnesses	to	it.	However,	he	tried	to
put	a	brave	face	on	it:
“You	are	a	thousand	times	too	kind,”	I	replied,	taking	a	step	backwards,	“but	I
would	prefer	an	order.”
The	baron	was	not	perturbed.	He	nailed	me	cruelly	by	saying:
“Buy	five	Northern	shares	for	cash.”
The	price	of	five	Northern	shares	then	being	around	50	francs,	the	amount	I
could	make	from	such	an	attractive	transaction	was	just	12	francs	and	50
centimes.
Such	brutal	treatment	of	underlings	was,	according	to	Feydeau,	quite	routine
(a	view	corroborated	by	Alexander	Herzen’s	description	of	a	visit	to	the	rue
Laffitte	in	1849):
3
“You	are	annoying	me!	Dat	isn’t	true!	Leaf	me	in	peace!”	were	the	civilities	he
addressed	to	me	.	.	.	whenever	I	took	it	upon	myself	to	make	some	observation
concerning	an	order.	It	is	necessary	to	bear	in	mind	that	because	of	the	peculiar
language	which	he	spoke	and	his	accent,	it	was	not	always	easy	to	understand
him.
One	day,	prompted	by	a	stock	market	price	which	annoyed	him,	he	became	so
angry	that	he	tore	my	quotation	in	two,	obliging	me	to	make	it	up	again,	and
called	me	a	“blested	impecile!”
Others—even	fellow	Jews—fared	just	as	badly:	“	‘Ah!	Dere	you	are,	you
tamned	thief	of	a	Cherman	Chew!’	he	said	one	day	to	one	of	his	coreligionists,	a
jobber,	as	he	came	into	his	office	.	.	.	The	unfortunate	man	stood	crushed,
deflated,	speechless	and	blank-faced.	Perhaps	he	took	it	for	a	compliment.”	The

--- Page 420 ---
occasion	when	a	broker	named	Manuel	dared	to	speak	his	mind	to	James	had
become	part	of	bourse	mythology.	“Good	day,	baron,”	he	had	said,	as	he	entered
James’s	office.	“How	are	you	keeping?”
“Vat’s	dat	got	to	do	vit	you?”	James	had	retorted	cantankerously.
“You	are	quite	right,”	exclaimed	Manuel.	“You	could	drop	down	dead	as	I
stand	here,	and	I	would	no	more	care	than	if	a	dog	died.”
Small	wonder	so	many	of	his	Parisian	contemporaries	assumed	that	James
was	Nathan’s	heir.
Yet	it	is	far	from	clear	that	James	ever	wielded	the	same	power	
within
	the
Rothschild	family	that	his	brother	had.	He	was	undoubtedly	quick	to	try	to
impose	his	authority	on	his	nephews	following	Nathan’s	death.	One	of	the	first
letters	he	wrote	to	Lionel	and	his	brothers	under	the	new	dispensation	of	1836
began	in	no	uncertain	terms:
I	would	ask	you	kindly,	my	dear	nephews,	to	pay	a	little	more	attention	to	my
letters,	because	quite	frankly	I	was	very	cross	today,	for	I	would	very	much	have
wished	to	continue	working	with	London	in	the	same	
way	that	I	had	done	in	the
past	with	your	late	father,	and	not	to	have	to	write	argumentative	letters,	for	a
business	can	only	be	managed	well	if	one	pays	as	much	attention	to	the	smaller
business	transactions	as	one	does	to	the	larger	ones.
And	there	followed	three	specific	sins	of	omission	allegedly	perpetrated	by	the
London	house.	Such	rebukes	were	issued	on	a	fairly	regular	basis	over	the	next
decade,	with	James’s	favourite	criticism	being	that	his	nephews	were	too	busy
hunting	to	read,	much	less	answer,	their	uncle’s	letters.	Pointed	allusions	to	the
way	things	had	been	in	Nathan’s	day	were	also	regularly	made,	not	only	by
James	but	by	all	the	brothers.	“You	can	now	see	how	right	I	was,”	wrote
Salomon	patronisingly	in	September	1837,
when	I	wrote	you	about	the	business	deals	and	you	will	now	have	to	admit	it,	my
dear	children	.	.	.	We	now	have	to	push	the	business	with	the	bills,	my	dear
children.	This	is	what	your	late	father	had	always	said.	Whenever	he	saw	that
others	wanted	to	push	us	out	of	a	business	deal	he	always	wrote,	“My	dear
brother,	we	have	to	push	it	through.”	It	is	all	the	same	whether	we	make	a	loss	or
a	profit,	whether	we	earn	something	or	suffer	a	loss,	we	must	not,	nor	should	we
let	anyone	grow	above	our	heads	or	we	will	be	simply	pushed	aside.	I	hope	that
you	will	now	listen	to	my	advice,	my	dear	nephews,	and	irrespective	of	whether
we	make	a	profit	or	a	loss	we	have	to	push.

--- Page 421 ---
Not	long	after,	James	wrote	to	point	out	“that	in	the	lifetime	of	your	dear	Papa
he	used	to	give	us	discount	notes	at	2½	per	cent	and	that,	as	good	bills	can	now
be	freely	discounted	in	London	at	3	per	cent,	the	other	houses	take	advantage	of
it	.	.	.	so	that	if	you	wish	us	to	be	able	to	compete	with	them	and	do	business	you
must	discount	for	us	on	the	same	terms.”	Amschel	harped	on	the	same	theme.	He
and	James	could	only	agree	in	1839	that	“the	loss	of	our	brother	Nathan	was	a
terrible	blow	and	one	can’t	expect	that	youngsters	will	get	the	same	respect,	fear
and	trust	as	do	the	older	generation.”
Yet—as	James’s	complaint	about	preferential	discounting	suggests—the	most
serious	complaint	made	by	the	continental	Rothschilds	was	that	the	London
house	was	neglecting	their	interests;	and,	as	we	have	seen,	just	the	same	had
been	alleged	on	a	number	of	occasions	before	Nathan’s	death.	Indeed,	it	might
be	said	to	testify	to	the	success	of	his	sons	in	defending	their	relative	autonomy
that	this	charge	was	being	heard	again	within	just	over	a	year	of	his	death.	It	was
frequently	repeated	thereafter.	In	September	1839,	for	example,	James	accused
the	London	house	of	collecting	half	the	profits	on	their	business	in	Spain	but
leaving	the	Paris	house	to	run	all	the	risks.	“I	think	that	it	is	only	right	and
proper,”	he	complained	irritably,	“that	we	share	the	other	business	operations
where	the	Paris	House	runs	just	as	much	of	the	risk	as	does	London,	and	that	no
House	has	any	advantage	over	the	other,	for	as	soon	as	one	House	notices	such
behaviour	in	the	other	this	will	generate	a	feeling	of	mistrust	and	everything	will
then	simply	collapse,	God	forbid.”	A	week	later	he	repeated	his	grievance.	“As
long	as	I	am	alive,”	he	told	Nat,	“I	will	never	countenance	that	one	of	our
Houses	should	seek	to	achieve	an	advantage	over	another	or	perpetrate	an
injustice	[against	another].”	But	“when	you	[meaning	the	London	house]	see	that
a	deal	is	going	well	then	you	say,	‘Let	us	keep	it	here,’	whereas	if	it	is	
not	going
well	then	you	give	a	share	of	it	to	the	Paris	House.	My	dear	and	good	Nat,	this
sort	of	attitude	acts	as	a	dampener	and	only	gives	rise	to	annoying
correspondence.”	Such	minor	disputes	about	the	collective	accounts	between	the
houses	became	more	frequent.	There	was	also	friction	in	1840	and	1841,	when
both	James	and	Amschel	accused	their	nephews	of	sending	bills	to	rival	banks	in
Paris	and	Frankfurt.
For	their	part,	the	younger	Rothschilds	were	often	irritated	by	the	older.	“I
assure	you	that	it	is	a	great	bother	to	arrange	with	people	who	are	so	very
sententious	about	money	affairs,”	grumbled	Anthony	to	Lionel,	at	a	time	when
all	four	of	his	uncles	seemed	to	be	taking	an	inordinate	interest	in	his	marriage
plans.	“I	assure	you	that	although	Uncle	Charles	is	your	father	in	law,	that	the

--- Page 422 ---
less	one	has	to	do	with	this	gentleman,	the	better.”	Amschel’s	will,	which	he
constantly	redrafted	in	the	hope	of	exerting	some	sort	of	leverage	over	his
nephews,	was	another	source	of	discontent.
The	reality	was	that,	in	terms	of	resources,	the	London,	Paris	and	Frankfurt
houses	were	now	quite	evenly	matched,	so	that	no	one	of	them	was	really	in	a
position	to	dictate	to	the	others	as	Nathan	once	had.	“My	very	dear	nephews,”
James	had	to	write	apologetically,	following	a	disagreement	in	March	1838,	“I
am	very	pleased	with	you	and	I	fervently	request	of	you	not	to	take	my	words	
à
la	lettre
	because	one	has	to	put	up	with	such	torments	over	here	that	at	times	one
becomes	very	critical	and	discontented.	My	nerves	are	about	to	snap	and	I	am
easily	irritated.”	Nor	was	James	in	a	position	to	dominate	his	brothers.	When
Amschel	made	one	of	his	periodic	threats	to	give	up	business	on	the	ground	of	ill
health,	James	rushed	off	to	Frankfurt;	but	it	was	on	Salomon,	his	son	Anselm
and	Carl’s	eldest	son	Mayer	Carl	that	the	onus	of	responsibility	naturally	fell,
reflecting	the	closer	community	of	business	interest	between	Frankfurt,	Vienna
and	Naples.	When	James	himself	was	taken	seriously	ill	in	the	winter	of	1838-9,
any	thought	of	his	playing	the	role	of	“commanding	general”	had	to	be	put	aside.
Indeed,	there	were	few,	if	any,	occasions	before	1848	when	he	explicitly	opposed
his	elder	brothers’	wishes.	As	Nat	commented	when	Salomon	demanded	a	bigger
share	of	some	railway	and	state	loan	business,	“here	we	are	in	the	habit	of	giving
way	to	Frankfurt.”
As	in	the	past,	the	older	Rothschilds	sought	to	counteract	the	firm’s
centrifugal	tendencies	by	appealing	to	the	hallowed	principle	of	fraternal
“concordia”:	“In	what	has	our	strength	been	until	now?”	remonstrated	James	in
1839,	when	he	and	his	nephews	were	once	again	at	odds.	“Only	in	that	people
knew	that	one	place	will	support	the	other	.	.	.	[A]s	you	well	know,	the	well-
being	of	our	family	is	closer	to	my	heart	than	anything	else.”	In	1841	Amschel
felt	so	worried	about	the	extent	of	internecine	friction	that	he	sent	all	his	brothers
and	nephews	a	passionate	appeal	for	family	unity,	invoking	the	memory	of
Mayer	Amschel.	“Let	us	do	business	again	in	peace	and	in	harmony	and	not
quarrel	with	each	other,”	pleaded	James	the	following	year.	“If	peace	reigns
between	us	this	will	only	bring	us	good	fortune	and	blessings	and	both	you	and
we	should	not	lack	anything.”
Perhaps	wisely,	it	was	decided	when	the	partners	met	at	Paris	that	same	year
to	leave	the	1836	agreement	unaltered,	as—in	Hannah’s	words—“the	Elder
Brothers	appear	to	be	content	with	things	as	they	are	and	require	no	change.”
However,	she	added	significantly:	“The	counting	house	of	each[,]	having	their

--- Page 423 ---
[
sic
]	own	capital[,]	should	be	independent,	and	they	must	regulate	the	income	of
each	party	to	make	all	
those	concerned	equally	so[;]	the	Elder	Members’	capital
being	so	much	greater	they	have	more	to	say.”	This	was	also	the	view	of	her
elder	sons.	Two	years	later,	Lionel	was	able	to	modify	the	partnership	agreement
in	precisely	that	way.	By	formally	withdrawing	£340,250	from	their	personal
share	of	the	combined	capital,	he	and	his	brothers	brought	their	proportion—and
therefore	the	amount	of	annual	interest	they	received,	calculated	as	3	per	cent	of
that	proportion—into	line	with	those	of	their	uncles,	ending	the	situation
whereby	Nathan	had	been	the	biggest	“shareholder.”
In	doing	so,	it	might	be	thought,	Lionel	was	surrendering	an	advantage.
Indeed,	he	surrendered	even	more	by	leaving	the	1836	system	intact	for	the
distribution	of	the	combined	profits,	which	had	specified	that	10	per	cent	of	the
continental	houses’	profits	went	to	the	London	house.	“As	I	was	quite	sure	that	it
would	have	given	rise	to	disagreeable	disputes	or	discussions,”	Lionel	reported
to	his	brothers,	“and	I	am	quite	certain	we	should	have	got	nothing	by	it,	I	of
course	said	not	a	word	about	our	having	a	larger	share	of	the	profits;	thank	God
for	what	we	have	and	may	we	have	to	divide	as	much	the	next	time	we	meet.”
However,	Lionel’s	objective	was	primarily	to	retain	the	relative	autonomy	of	the
London	house.	His	real	victory	was	to	defeat	James’s	proposal—first	put
forward	nearly	thirty	years	before—that	the	partnership	between	the	five	houses
should	be	made	public:
Uncle	James	wanted	this	act	of	partnership,	without	any	mention	of	our	money
matters	so	that	he	might	show	it	at	Paris,	in	case	they	wanted	to	know	who	the
partners	of	the	House	are—now,	
as	we	in	London	always	have	said	that	our
house	has	nothing	to	do	with	any	others
	we	just	want	to	avoid	having	any
document	which	anyone	might	show,	the	agreement	with	all	the	money	matters
is	not	likely	to	be	produced	but	one	as	was	proposed	might	very	easily	have	been
made	public	and	will	therefore	not	be	made,	they	immediately	agreed	to	my
observations.
Thanks	to	Lionel,	the	precise	nature	of	the	relationship	between	the	five	houses
remained	shrouded	in	mystery,	a	secret	between	the	partners	and	their	lawyers.
Such	secrecy	was	a	Rothschild	tradition;	but	it	seems	reasonable	to	conclude	that
Lionel	already	preferred	not	be	bound	too	tightly	to	the	other	four	houses.
“Thank	God	for	what	we	have”:	that	sentiment	was	typical	of	Nathan’s	sons.
Both	Nat	and	Anthony	had	used	almost	exactly	the	same	phrase	just	a	few
months	before:	“We	must	thank	God	for	what	we	have	got	&	try	to	keep	it.”

--- Page 424 ---
Indeed,	it	is	tempting	to	identify	a	“generation	gap”	in	entrepreneurial	attitudes
as	one	explanation	for	the	disagreements	of	the	1830s	and	1840s.	There	is	no
question	that	New	Court	was	a	more	financially	staid	place	than	it	had	been
under	Nathan:	there	was	less	bond	market	speculation	and	more	bill-broking	for
example.	“We	prefer	dealing	largely	with	a	little	less	profit	to	keeping	a	very
large	stock	on	hand	and	holding	out	for	very	high	prices,”	wrote	Nat	to	his
brothers	from	Paris,	one	of	many	essentially	cautious	business	maxims	he
committed	to	paper.	Exiled	as	he	was	on	the	other	side	of	the	Channel,	he	tended
to	interpret	differences	between	New	Court	and	the	rue	Laffitte	as	national	in
character.	“The	more	I	see,”	his	younger	brother	declared	when	he	visited	Paris
in	1846,	“I	am	convinced	the	more,	there	is	no	place	like	our	old	New	Court.
Where	would	the	rubbishy	French	shares	be,	if	we	did	not	support	them?	I	think
we	may	give	ourselves	a	few	airs	and	be	as	great	men	as	
others.”	But	it	is	hard	to
imagine	Nathan	saying	such	a	thing.	Although	only	sixteen	years	separated
Lionel	and	his	uncle	James,	their	attitudes	to	business	were	separated	by	much
more.	For	James	and	his	brothers	retained	the	restless,	insecure	drive	born	of	the
Frankfurt	ghetto.	“Whenever	we	write	to	you	that	other	people	are	more
attentive	to	what	is	going	on	and	do	more	business,	you	immediately	assume	that
we	are	trying	to	pick	a	quarrel	with	you,”	James	wrote	to	his	nephews	in	a
somewhat	pained	letter	of	1845.	“However,	I	assure	you,	my	dear	nephews,	I
have	nothing	of	the	sort	in	mind,	but	my	heart	breaks	when	I	see	how	everyone
is	trying	to	push	us	out	of	[every]	business	deal.	[Even]	the	stone	on	the	wall	is
envious	and	is	our	enemy.”	That	tendency	to	regard	all	competition	as	a	threat
was	not	something	the	next	generation	could	inherit.
Yet	even	without	such	differences	of	attitude,	there	would	probably	have	been
increased	friction	between	the	five	houses,	for	it	was	the	inevitable	price	of
success.	By	the	mid-1830s	each	of	the	five	Rothschild	houses	had	securely
established	itself	as	the	pre-eminent	force	in	the	public	finances	of	its	respective
base	country.	Admittedly,	the	great	powers	were	inclined	to	draw	in	their	horns
in	the	wake	of	the	revolutionary	crisis	of	1830-33.	With	the	exception	of	the
1835	loan	to	indemnify	the	West	Indian	slave-owners,	Britain,	France	and
Austria	did	not	borrow	big	sums	until	1839-41.	Nevertheless,	the	experience	of
the	revolutionary	alarms	of	the	early	1830s	had	cemented	the	links	between	the
three	main	Rothschild	houses	and	the	states	where	they	were	based.	On	the	part
of	Lionel	and	his	brothers,	there	was	evidently	a	degree	of	emotional
identification	with	England.	Salomon	too,	influenced	by	his	growing	intimacy
with	Metternich,	was	increasingly	inclined	to	give	consideration	to	Austrian

--- Page 425 ---
imperial	interests.	Even	James,	for	all	his	disdain	for	the	ministers	of	Louis
Philippe,	could	not	wholly	avoid	taking	national	priorities	into	account.	Such
national	identifications	did	not	greatly	matter	if	peace	prevailed	in	Europe.	But
when	the	interests	of	the	great	powers	clashed,	as	they	periodically	did,	it	was
less	and	less	easy	for	the	Rothschilds	to	remain	neutral.
The	Rothschilds’	natural	response	to	the	reduced	capital	needs	of	the	great
powers	was	to	seek	business	elsewhere.	However,	there	were	few	regions	of	the
world	in	which	the	European	powers	had	no	interest,	and	no	regions	in	which
their	interests	coincided	perfectly.	In	four	areas—Iberia,	America,	the	Low
Countries	and	the	Near	East—the	challenge	was	to	arrive	at	a	policy	which	was
in	the	Rothschilds’	collective	interest	even	when	the	national	interests	of	their
“local”	governments	were	in	conflict.	This	was	difficult	enough	while	Nathan
was	still	in	charge;	after	his	death	it	became	all	but	impossible.

--- Page 426 ---
III
Uncles	and	Nephews

--- Page 427 ---
TWELVE
Love	and	Debt
[T]he	very	society	which	you	think	is	today	rejecting	you	because	you	are	not
being	very	friendly	to	it	over	a	sister	who	is	behaving	against	the	wishes	of	her
family,	that	very	same	society	will	be	just	as	friendly	to	you	and	will	hold	you	in
even	greater	esteem	when	they	see	that	you	stick	to	your	principles	.	.	.
—JAMES	TO	NAT,	JULY	16,	1839
	
	
	
	
On	April	29,	1839,	a	catastrophe	befell	the	Rothschilds—or	so	it	seemed	to	the
family	at	the	time.	Less	than	three	years	after	the	unexpected	death	of	Nathan	at
the	very	height	of	his	powers,	his	second	daughter,	Hannah	Mayer,	renounced
Judaism	to	marry	a	Christian.
In	every	other	respect,	the	Hon.	Henry	Fitzroy	might	have	been	thought	a
perfectly	suitable,	indeed	desirable,	spouse	for	the	daughter	of	a	German-Jewish
immigrant	who	owed	his	fortune	to	“trade.”	True,	he	was	the	younger	son	of
Lord	Southampton,	and	therefore	unlikely	to	inherit	much	in	the	way	of	a	title	or
land;	on	the	other	hand,	at	the	age	of	thirty-two	he	was	already	(after	Magdalen,
Oxford,	and	Trinity,	Cambridge)	Deputy	Lieutenant	for	Northamptonshire	and
MP	for	Lewes,	with	realistic	prospects	of	one	day	achieving	political	office.	Not
that	this	was	a	consideration	in	the	mind	of	Hannah	Mayer.	At	some	point	in
1838	she	had	fallen	in	love	with	the	dark-haired,	blue-eyed	young	man.	It	was	an
apostasy	for	which	she	would	never	wholly	be	forgiven.
	
The	Crime	and	Punishment	of	Hannah	Mayer
In	the	classic	topos	of	the	nineteenth-century	novel,	it	is	the	aristocratic	family

--- Page 428 ---
which	disapproves	of	the	mercantile	match.	Fitzroy’s	family	undoubtedly	did
disapprove,	cutting	off	his	allowance.	However,	they	did	not	disapprove	nearly
as	violently	as	the	Rothschilds.	This	was	not,	in	fact,	the	first	time	Hannah
Mayer	had	formed	an	attachment	to	a	Gentile:	before	her	father’s	death,
according	to	one	account,	Prince	Edmond	de	Clary	had	proposed	to	her	in	Paris.
Then	Nathan	had	bluntly	dismissed	the	idea;	and	when	his	brother	James	heard
of	her	new	affair	with	Fitzroy,	he	was	no	more	sympathetic:
Well,	my	dear	Lionel,	your	letters	wherein	you	speak	about	the	distressing
circumstances	and	the	love	affair	of	your	sister	Hannah	Mayer	break	our	heart.
You	can	imagine	why	this	is	so	because	nothing	could	possibly	be	more
disastrous	for	our	family,	for	our	continued	well-being,	for	our	good	name	and
for	our	honour	than	such	a	decision,	God	forbid.	I	hardly	even	dare	mention	it.
To	renounce	our	religion,	the	religion	of	our	[father]	Rabbi	Mayer	[Amschel]
Rothschild	of	blessed	memory,	the	religion	which,	thank	God,	made	us	so	great.
Yet	James	was	from	the	outset	pessimistic	about	the	likelihood	of	stopping	her
a	second	time.	This	was	not	so	much	because	he	felt	he	lacked	Nathan’s
patriarchal	power;	for	Nathan	had	formally	stated	in	his	will	that	his	younger
daughters	could	marry	only	with	the	consent	of	their	mother	and	brothers,	with
his	own	brothers	having	the	final,	binding	word	in	the	event	of	a	disagreement.
The	real	problem	was	that	the	financial	sanctions	intended	to	enforce	this	clause
were	an	insufficient	deterrent.	On	her	father’s	death,	Hannah	Mayer	had	received
£12,500,	having	already	been	given	the	same	sum	on	attaining	her	majority,	as
well	as	a	further	£50,000	which	was	invested	in	the	family	bank	to	yield	4	per
cent	per	annum.	Had	she	married	with	her	family’s	blessing,	she	would	have
received	another	£50,000	as	a	dowry;	but	this	was	money	she	evidently	felt	she
could	do	without.	James	advised	his	nephews	to	inform	their	uncle	Salomon	of
Hannah’s	intentions,	but	was	doubtful	whether	he	would	be	able	“to	do	any	more
good	as	far	as	this	issue	is	concerned	than	I	can.”	He	also	agreed	to	come	to
London	before	February	20	to	try	to	dissuade	his	niece	in	person.	“But,”	he
wrote	gloomily,
whether	our	trip	will	turn	out	to	be	successful	and	what	kind	of	impression	this
will	make	on	the	public,	this	I	can’t	possibly	predict,	or	whether	Hannah	Mayer
will	take	any	notice	of	our	well-meaning	advice	when	she	well	knows	that	the
only	purpose	of	our	visit	to	London	is	to	frustrate	her	love	adventure.	I	am	more
inclined	to	believe	that	in	view	of	this	girl’s	independent	character	we	are	more
likely	to	exasperate	her	even	more	than	convince	her	to	abandon	this	ill-starred

--- Page 429 ---
love	affair.	However,	I	want	nothing	more	than	the	well-being	of	our	family	and
nothing	will	prevent	me	from	going	to	London	.	.	.	I	am	extremely	concerned.
In	fact,	James	was	prevented	from	visiting	England	by	a	bout	of	illness.
Instead,	he	suggested	that	Hannah	Mayer—chaperoned	by	her	mother—come	to
stay	with	him	in	Switzerland,	where	he	planned	to	continue	his	convalescence.
This	suggested	“diversion”	came	too	late.	The	very	day	after	James	sent	his
invitation,	the	wedding	took	place	at	St	George’s	in	Hanover	Square.	Only	her
brother	Nat	attended	the	service,	the	bride’s	mother	having	escorted	her	no
further	than	the	church	gates.	A	few	weeks	later	the	scandal	made	it	into	
The
Times
:
It	is	confirmed	that	the	condition	imposed	upon	Miss	Rothschild	on	her	marrying
the	Hon.	Mr.	Fitzroy	was	that	she	should	embrace	the	Christian	religion.	This	is
the	first	instance	of	a	member	of	the	Rothschild	family	abandoning	the	faith	of
their	fathers,	a	circumstance	which	makes	the	deeper	impression	at	their	native
place	[Frankfurt],	as	they	had	hitherto	distinguished	themselves	by	their
adherence	to	the	Jewish	
creed.	It	is	said	that	the	bride’s	uncles	are	by	no	means
pleased	with	a	match	which	renders	a	change	of	religion	necessary.
This	last	was	an	understatement.	“I	admit	quite	frankly,”	wrote	an
incandescent	James	from	Paris,
that	the	story	about	Hannah	Mayer	made	me	so	ill	that	I	did	not	have	the	courage
to	pick	up	a	pen	and	write	about	this	matter.	She	has	unfortunately	robbed	our
whole	family	of	its	pride	and	caused	us	such	harm	that	it	can	no	longer	be
redressed.	You	say,	my	dear	Nat,	that	she	has	found	everything	except	for
religion.	However,	I	believe	that	[religion]	means	everything.	Our	good	fortune
and	our	blessings	depend	upon	it.	We	shall	therefore	wipe	her	from	our	memory
and	never	again	during	my	lifetime	will	I	or	any	other	member	of	our	family	see
or	receive	her.	We	now	want	to	wish	her	all	the	best	and	banish	her	from	our
memory	as	if	she	had	never	existed.
Even	her	own	mother	echoed	these	sentiments.	“The	first	impressions	and
regrets	experienced	on	account	of	the	recent	Marriage,”	she	told	her	son	Nat,	“is
[
sic
]	only	exceeded	by	a	desire	to	avoid	any	similar	circumstances	so	very	much
against	the	habits	and	inclinations	of	us	all.”	Although	she	confided	that	she
would	“be	most	happy	to	receive	daily	bulletins	of	Domestic	as	well	as	all	other
concerns	in	which	I	so	strongly	participate	if	there	should	be	any	news	from	an
Individual	who	still	so	much	interests	me,”	that	individual	had	irrevocably

--- Page 430 ---
“separated	herself	from	me.”	Nat—and	he	alone—stood	by	Hannah	Mayer.	In
July	he	wrote	to	James	arguing	that	his	sister	had	done	“no	more	than	marry	‘a
Christian	in	a	Christian	country.’	”	The	response	this	elicited	from	his	uncle
deserves	to	be	quoted	at	length	for	the	light	it	sheds	on	the	older	generation’s
attitudes	to	the	subject.	“From	the	beginning,”	thundered	James,	who	had
evidently	been	nursing	his	wrath,	“I	correctly	predicted	that	.	.	.	this	most
unfortunate	matter	.	.	.	would	disrupt	the	unity	of	our	family	.	.	.	and	I	can	tell
you	that	this	event	has	made	me	so	ill	that	I	honestly	think	that	I	may	not	survive
it”:
I	would	like	to	know	what	more	one	could	do	than	to	abandon	one’s	own
religion	and	publicly	declare	that	since	the	age	of	fifteen	one	never	had	any
thought	of	doing	anything	else.	My	dear	Nat,	both	as	your	friend	and	Uncle	I
want	to	give	you	my	very	frank	and	honest	opinion	.	.	.	We	are	determined	that,
as	long	as	the	Almighty	grants	us	good	health,	neither	we	nor	my	children	will
again	come	into	contact	with	Hannah	Mayer,	for	it	is	not	only	one	thing	[which
has	brought	us	to	this	decision]	but	so	many	that	I	could	fill	endless	pages.
In	part,	James’s	argument	was	about	the	structure	of	authority	within	the
family	and	the	obedience	the	younger	generation	owed	to	their	elders:
What	sort	of	an	example	will	it	set	for	our	children	when	a	girl	says,	“I	will
marry	against	the	wish	of	my	family?”	I	don’t	even	want	to	take	the	notion	of
religion	into	account	.	.	.	I	should	then	be	expected	to	welcome	and	entertain	this
girl	as	if	nothing	at	all	had	happened?	Why	should	my	children,	or	my	children’s
children,	ever	follow	the	wishes	of	their	parents	if	they	don’t	get	punished?
But	“the	main	point,”	as	he	put	it,	was	“religion”:
I	and	the	rest	of	our	family	have	.	.	.	always	brought	our	offspring	up	from	their
early	childhood	with	the	sense	that	their	love	is	to	be	confined	to	members	of	the
family,	that	their	attachment	for	one	another	would	prevent	them	from	getting
any	ideas	of	marrying	anyone	other	than	one	of	the	family	so	that	the	fortune
would	stay	inside	the	family.	Who	will	give	me	any	assurance	that	my	own
children	will	do	what	I	tell	them	if	they	see	that	there	is	no	punishment
forthcoming?	What	if	my	own	daughter,	after	she	has	married,	should	say,	“I	am
miserable	because	I	didn’t	marry	a	Duke	although	I	had	enough	money	to	do	so,
and	I	see	that,	despite	the	fact	that	this	woman	renounced	her	religion,	and
despite	the	fact	that	[she]	married	against	the	wishes	of	her	family,	she	is
nevertheless	accepted	[by	the	family].	It	would	have	been	the	same	with	me?”

--- Page 431 ---
Do	you	really	think	that	all	the	nicely	conceived	projects	[will	come	to	fruition]
—that	is,	that	Mayer	will	marry	Anselm’s	daughter,	that	Lionel’s	daughter	will
marry	the	child	of	another	member	of	the	family	so	that	the	great	fortune	and	the
Rothschild	name	will	continue	to	be	honoured	and	transmitted	[to	future
generations]—if	one	doesn’t	put	a	stop	to	this?
Finally,	James	added	some	reflections	on	the	social	implications	of	the
marriage	(evidently	in	response	to	points	made	by	Nat):
Of	course,	one	could	perhaps	take	some	steps	to	prevent	this	from	happening	but
society	may	well	look	askance	at	such	measures.	This	may	indeed	be	the	case
but	I	personally	don’t	entirely	share	this	opinion	.	.	.	[T]he	very	society	which
you	think	is	today	rejecting	you	because	you	are	not	being	very	friendly	to	it
over	a	sister	who	is	behaving	against	the	wishes	of	her	family,	that	very	same
society	will	be	just	as	friendly	to	you	and	will	hold	you	in	even	greater	esteem
when	they	see	that	you	stick	to	your	principles	and	are	not	prepared	to	be	upset
by	empty	words.	The	honest	and	upright	man	will	always	value	a	man	of	similar
character.	Adieu.
Admittedly,	James	added	a	disclaimer	to	this	impassioned	outburst.	Nat	“should
view	this	as	my,	and	only	my,	thoughts	and	feelings	and	don’t	think	that	I	want
in	any	way	to	influence	your	mother	or	any	other	member	of	the	family.	It	would
be	unseemly	and	I	don’t	wish	to	do	so.	Everyone	is	entitled	to	do	what	he
wants.”	But	these	were	empty	words.	He	concluded	by	asking	Nat	to	show	his
eldest	brother	Lionel	his	letter	“and	I	am	sure	that	he	shares	my	opinion.”	For	the
first	time	since	his	brother’s	death,	James	was	speaking	in	the	unmistakable	tone
of	the	new	head	of	the	family,	secure	in	the	knowledge	that	the	majority	of	its
members	were	equally	dismayed,	if	not	more	so.	A	letter	dated	the	following	day
from	Anthony—who	was	in	Paris	during	the	crisis—confirms	this	impression:
What	they	wish	us	to	do	is	not	to	receive	H[annah]	M[ayer]	for	the	present	and
that	is	easily	understood.	They	say:	a	sister	is	married	against	the	consent	of
one’s	family;	if	after	two	months	you	will	receive	her—what	example	will	it
have	upon	the	remainder	part	of	the	family[?]	They	say:	will	my	daughter,	who
sees	her	cousin	who	married	against	the	consent	of	all	her	family	received	by
them,	will	she	marry	whom	I	like[?]—no,	she	will	also	fall	in	love	with	a
Christian	and	God	knows	what	the	boys	will	also	do	.	.	.	I	recommend	you	.	.	.
now	for	your	own	sake	and	also	to	keep	the	union	amongst	us—not	to	receive	H.
M.	for	the	present.

--- Page 432 ---
Nat	made	a	final	effort	to	defend	his	sister,	but	was	firmly	sat	on	by	his	uncle.
The	most	striking	point	about	James’s	response	is,	of	course,	the	way	he
equated	“religion”	with	endogamy:	“pride	in	religion”	meant,	if	his	words	are	to
be	taken	literally,	intermarriage	within	the	Rothschild	family	“so	that	the	fortune
would	stay	inside	the	family.”	We	may	well	ask	how	much	this	eminently
practical	principle	had	to	do	with	“religion”	at	all.	For	the	thrust	of	James’s
argument	was	not	that	younger	Rothschilds	should	marry	only	other	Jews;	it	was
that	they	should	marry	only	
other	Rothschilds
.	By	encouraging	other	members	of
the	family	to	follow	their	own	inclinations,	Hannah	Mayer’s	rebellion	had
jeopardised	“all	the	nicely	conceived	projects	.	.	.	that	Mayer	will	marry
Anselm’s	daughter,	that	Lionel’s	daughter	will	marry	the	child	of	another
member	of	the	family.”	In	Disraeli’s	
Coningsby
,	it	is	said	of	the	younger	Sidonia
that	“no	earthly	considerations	would	ever	induce	him	to	impair	that	purity	of
race	on	which	he	prides	himself	”	by	marrying	a	Christian.	Yet	in	reality	“earthly
considerations”	counted	for	as	much	in	the	eyes	of	some	Rothschilds	as	any
racial	or	religious	exclusivity.	James	came	close	to	admitting	this	in	his	letter:
“Don’t	imagine,	my	dear	Nat,	that	I	have	taken	to	playing	the	role	of	a	religious
man,	but	I	must	admit	that	I	take	a	lot	of	pride	in	my	religion	and	very	much
wish	that	my	children	will	do	the	same.”	This	tallies	with	what	we	know	of	his
religiosity:	as	Nat	was	well	aware,	James	was	far	from	strict	in	his	observance.
Like	his	brothers,	he	dutifully	played	his	part	within	the	Jewish	community,
supporting	the	Society	for	the	Encouragment	and	Aid	of	[Jewish]	Indigents	in
1843	and	asking	the	Education	Minister	“why	no	Jews	had	been	appointed	to	the
academic	council	of	Bordeaux”	in	1847.	He	campaigned	as	energetically	as	any
Rothschild	to	improve	the	civil	rights	of	Jewish	communities	outside	France
(where	full	religious	equality	had	been	secured	in	1830).	But	fundamentally	his
loyalty	to	his	religion	was	clannish:	few,	if	any,	Jews	were	on	a	par	with	the
Rothschilds;	nevertheless,	every	Rothschild	had	to	be	a	Jew.
James’s	appeal	was	heeded.	When—just	months	after	Hannah	Mayer’s
marriage—Anthony	was	suspected	of	harbouring	similar	intentions,	his	uncle
Amschel	leant	on	him	heavily	to	abide	by	the	“nicely	conceived	project”	that	he
marry	one	of	his	Montefiore	cousins,	Louisa	(sometimes	called	Louise).	This
time	the	pressure	was	effective,	not	least	because	Anthony	was	at	once	less
romantic	and	more	biddable	than	his	sister.	“Uncle	A.	was	a	regular	bother
asking	me	about	getting	married,”	he	complained	to	his	brothers,	“and	writing	to
Uncle	S.	that	I	only	waited	until	his	death	to	marry	a	Christian	.	.	.	I	told	him
quite	short	that	if	Aunt	Henrietta	[Montefiore]	would	cash	up,	I	was	ready,	when

--- Page 433 ---
he	said	of	course	he	would	not	advise	me	[to	do	so]	without	Louis[a]	had	the
same	fortune	as	Joseph	and	Nathaniel.	So,	I	said	very	well,	and	I	believe	he
wrote	to	that	effect—for	later	we	left	much	better	friends.”	James	was	apparently
less	worried	about	Anthony	than	Amschel.	“I	am	absolutely	convinced,”	he
wrote	from	Naples,	in	a	letter	which	shows	how	much	attention	the	uncles	were
now	paying	to	the	marriage	question,
that	Anthony	does	not	intend	to	marry	the	girl.	He	is	a	very	weak	person	but	I
don’t	think	that,	even	for	a	moment,	such	a	silly	idea	could	enter	his	head.	He	is
weak	and	is	easily	led	and	I	give	you	my	word	that	I	don’t	treat	this	matter
lightly	and	when	I	am	back	in	Paris	again	I	will	do	everything	in	my	power	to
bring	this	affair	to	an	end.	When	I	was	in	Paris	I	often	discussed	this	matter	with
him	but	as	you	well	know,	my	dear	Amschel,	people	would	much	rather	lay
down	in	a	ready-made	and	warm	bed.	Regrettably,	he	considers	the	whole	matter
to	be	rather	[?humorous].	Well,	you	can	rest	assured	that	one	can	no	longer	tell
the	youngsters	what	to	do	as	one	could	previously.	As	our	good	[brother]
Salomon	is	coming	to	Paris	too,	God	willing,	so	we	will	deal	with	this	matter
then	.	.	.	I	am	delighted	to	see	that	the	discussions	with	our	brother	Carl’s	son
have	been	successfully	concluded	and	that	everything	will	be	well,	God	willing.
This	last	allusion	was	to	the	parallel	project	to	marry	Mayer	Carl	to	Louise,
Hannah	Mayer’s	younger	sister.
In	due	course,	James’s	confidence	was	amply	vindicated.	“I	am	pleased	to
note,	my	dear	Anthony,	that	you	are	so	in	love,”	he	was	able	to	write
approvingly	in	November	1839;	a	few	days	later	came	the	announcement	of	his
engagement	to	Louisa	Montefiore;	by	February	they	were	married	and	the
recipients	of	pointedly	warm	congratulations.	Three	years	later—as	planned—
Mayer	Carl	married	his	cousin	Louise	in	London.	In	August	of	the	same	year
Nat	married	another	cousin,	James’s	daughter	Charlotte.	The	contrast	between
this	last,	exuberant	occasion	and	the	miserable	weddings	of	1836	and	1839	could
not	have	been	more	complete:
The	ceremony	was	performed	[at	Ferrières]	in	a	little	temple	erected	for	that
purpose	in	the	garden,	the	road	to	it	strewn	with	rose-leaves.	After	the	ceremony
some	went	back	to	Paris,	but	the	greater	part	remained,	with	whist,	billiards,
walking	in	the	garden	etc.	.	.	.	Billy	&	I	had	a	bottle	of	champagne.	At	7	we
dined	in	the	orangery,	which	was	beautifully	arranged.	Lots	of	toasts	were	drunk.
Your	Uncle	James	proposed	the	King’s	health	in	a	very	good	speech.

--- Page 434 ---
A	pattern	had	been	established—or	rather,	re-established—which	would	be
continued	into	the	1870s.
It	is	a	moot	point	how	far	such	arranged,	endogamous	marriages	were	happy.
James’s	marriage	to	Betty	seemed	to	many	contemporaries	to	have	paired	beauty
with	the	beast:	“She	handsome—he	vulgar,”	was	how	the	British	diplomat	Lord
William	Russell	summed	it	up	in	1843;	others	were	struck	by	Betty’s	more
refined	manners	and	cultural	sophistication.	(This	was	roughly	the	way	Heinrich
Heine	saw	the	couple,	though	he	never	underrated	James’s	intellect;	and	it	is	not
too	far	removed	from	the	portrayal	of	Nucingen	and	his	wife	by	Balzac—though
he	never	underrated	Madame.	Nucingen’s	fundamental	toughness.)	Yet	Betty’s
letters	suggest	a	genuine	and	deep	affection	for	her	husband	and	there	is	no
evidence	whatever	of	marital	strife.
In	London,	Lionel	and	his	cousin	Charlotte,	who	were	married	in	1836,	also
seemed	ill	matched	to	some	outsiders.	He	was	an	industrious,	conscientious	man,
dedicated	to	his	father’s	firm	and	to	the	cause	of	Jewish	emancipation,	but	not
passionate	in	his	personal	relations,	nor	sophisticated	in	his	cultural	tastes.	When
Disraeli	says	of	Sidonia,	“he	was	susceptible	of	deep	emotions,	but	not	for
individuals,”	we	are	perhaps	not	far	from	the	true	Lionel.	She,	by	contrast,	was
not	only	very	good-looking,	but	one	of	the	most	intellectually	gifted	Rothschilds
of	her	generation.	It	is	hard	to	believe,	judging	from	the	frequently	mordant,	not
to	say	downright	malicious	tone	of	her	voluminous	letters	and	diaries—with
their	troubling	subtext	of	frustrated	boredom—that	she	was	wholly	fulfilled	as
“Baroness	de	Rothschild,”	wife,	mother,	hostess	and	do-gooder.	“Ever	since	I
became	your	wife,”	she	wrote	to	her	husband	in	a	rare	outburst,	“I	have	had	to
do	what	others	want,	never	what	I	would	like	to	do.	Pray	that	I	shall	be
compensated	in	Heaven.”	Disraeli	gives	some	hints	of	this	in	his	fictionalised
relationship	between	the	Neuchatels	in	
Endymion
:
Adrian	had	married,	when	very	young,	a	lady	selected	by	his	father.	The
selection	seemed	a	good	one.	She	was	the	daughter	of	a	most	eminent	banker,
and	had	herself,	though	that	was	of	slight	importance,	a	large	portion.	She	was	a
woman	of	abilities,	highly	cultivated	.	.	.	And	yet	Mrs.	Neuchatel	was	not	a
contented	spirit;	and	though	she	appreciated	the	great	qualities	of	her	husband
and	viewed	him	even	with	reverence	as	well	as	affection,	she	scarcely
contributed	to	his	happiness	as	much	as	became	her.	And	for	this	reason	.	.	.	Mrs
Neuchatel	had	imbibed	not	merely	a	contempt	for	money,	but	an	absolute	hatred
of	it	.	.	.	In	one	respect	the	alliance	between	Adrian	and	his	wife	was	not	an
unfortunate	one	.	.	.	Adrian	.	.	.	was	so	absorbed	by	his	own	great	affairs,	was	a

--- Page 435 ---
man	at	the	same	time	of	so	serene	a	temper	and	so	supreme	a	will,	that	the	over-
refined	fantasies	of	his	wife	produced	not	the	slightest	effect	on	the	course	of	his
life.
Yet	no	matter	what	private	miseries	were	inflicted	as	a	consequence	of	the
intermarriage	strategy—and	we	can	rarely	do	more	than	guess	at	them—all
concerned	felt	or	came	to	feel	precisely	the	sense	of	clannish	collective	identity
which	it	had	been	the	intention	of	their	elders	to	foster.	Nothing	illustrates	this
better	than	the	subtly	retributive	way	Hannah	Mayer	was	subsequently	treated	by
the	rest	of	the	family,	and	not	least	by	Charlotte	herself.
Hannah	Mayer	was	not	ostracised	forever.	By	1848,	if	not	before,	she	and	her
husband	were	on	good	enough	terms	with	her	eldest	brother	to	receive	presents
from	him	for	their	children,	Arthur	and	Blanche,	and	to	invite	him	to	visit	them
at	their	house	at	Garboldisham.	More	surprisingly,	Betty	reported	to	her	son	in
1849	that	she	had	“made	my	peace	with	HM”	by	“invit[ing]	her	to	my	place”
when	the	Fitzroys	visited	Paris.	But	within	the	family	circle	Hannah	Mayer	was
always	regarded	with	that	disdain	generally	reserved	by	the	Victorians	for	“fallen
women”;	and,	like	good	Victorians,	her	sister	Louise	and	her	cousin	and	sister-
in-law	Charlotte	could	not	resist	interpreting	every	misfortune	that	befell	her	as	a
kind	of	divine	punishment.	In	1852	they	registered	with	grim	satisfaction
Hannah	Mayer’s	“fury”	when	her	husband	was	passed	over	by	Lord	Aberdeen
for	the	post	of	Secretary	at	the	Admiralty.	When	the	Fitzroys’	son	Arthur	died	six
years	later	(the	victim	of	a	fall	from	a	pony),	even	their	niece	Constance—then
just	fifteen—could	“not	help	thinking	that	all	the	misfortune	and	distress	which
have	overwhelmed	poor	Aunt	Hannah	Mayer	have	been	a	punishment	for	having
deserted	the	faith	of	the	fathers	and	for	having	married	without	her	mother’s
consent.	All	the	grief	that	she	caused	to	
that	mother	she	now	feels	doubly
herself.”	The	death	of	Henry	Fitzroy	himself	the	following	year	made	the
portrait	of	nemesis	all	but	complete.	All	that	was	now	lacking	was	a	suitably
wretched	end	for	his	widow	and	their	daughter	Blanche.	Neither	was	long	in
coming—or	so	it	seemed	to	Charlotte	de	Rothschild,	whose	letters	to	her
youngest	son	Leopold	chronicled	with	outward	sympathy	and	inward	relish	each
step	of	the	Fitzroys’	decline	and	fall.
From	February	1864	onwards,	Hannah	Mayer	was	seriously	ill:	Charlotte
reported	that	she	had	“an	enormous	swelling	on	her	back,	like	a	hump	of	a
camel”	and	“looked	perfectly	awful—her	face	white	and	shrunk,	and	furrowed
with	deep	lines	expressive	of	intense	suffering.	It	made	one’s	heart	break	to	see
her	in	such	pain.	The	swelling	on	her	back	is	perfectly	enormous,	and	quite	hot.

--- Page 436 ---
Yet	shivering	and	trembling	with	pain,	she	would	talk	of	nothing	but	parties	.	.	.
Her	ideas	are	constantly	running	upon	marriage.”	Hannah	Mayer’s	sole
preoccupation	henceforth	was	to	find	a	suitable	husband	for	her	daughter.	As	her
Rothschild	relatives	could	hardly	fail	to	notice,	all	the	“candidates”	considered
were	Christians;	moreover,	there	was	an	obvious	discrepancy	between	her	ideal
—“she	would	not	hear	of”	Lords	Loughborough,	Sefton	and	Coventry	though
the	Marquess	of	Blandford	was	considered	acceptable—and	the	realistic
contenders.	Blanche	might	be	pretty	and	artistically	talented	but,	cut	off	from	her
Rothschild	relations	and	low	in	the	Fitzroy	pecking-order,	she	was	no	prize
catch.
The	successful	suitor	proved	to	be	the	artist	and	architect	Sir	Coutts	Lindsay,	a
prosperous	but	Bohemian	figure	twice	her	age	with	a	Scottish	estate,	ten
thousand	a	year,	a	suspiciously	close	friendship	with	Lady	Virginia	Somers	and	a
shady	retinue	of	plebeian	mistresses	and	bastards.	When	Charlotte	paid	one	of
her	numerous	half-patronising,	half-prurient	visits	to	her	sister-in-law’s	house	in
Upper	Grosvenor	Square—ostensibly	to	offer	her	congratulations—she:
found	her	very	ill	and	completely	overcome	by	her	conflicting	feelings;	she	had
been	crying	and	sobbing	almost	shrieking,	and	is	indeed	so	much	to	be	pitied
that	the	congratulations	died	on	my	lips.	The	marriage	itself,	
ceci	entre	nous
,
does	not	satisfy	her	completely,	for	the	bridegroom	elect	is	forty,	and	has	grey
locks,	and	perhaps	her	ambition	would	have	soared	higher,	and	selected	a
nobleman	with	a	grand	title	for	her	daughter.
With	poetic	justice,	Blanche	had	followed	Hannah	Mayer’s	own	example,	set
twenty-five	years	before,	by	choosing	a	husband	for	love	and	in	spite	of	her
mother’s	wishes.	Though	the	latter	sought	to	make	the	best	of	a	bad	job—Sir
Coutts,	she	insisted,	was	“the	most	fascinating	person	I	ever	met”—Charlotte
omitted	no	defect	in	her	back-handed	descriptions	of	the	bridegroom	(he	was
“picturesque,”	“one-sided,”	his	gifts	to	his	fiancée	were	miserly,	and	so	on).
Nor	was	this	the	end	of	Hannah	Mayer’s	“punishment.”	From	the	moment	of
her	engagement,	Blanche	appeared	to	distance	herself	from	her	ailing	mother,
and	cut	herself	off	almost	completely	from	the	Rothschilds.	According	to
Charlotte—who	poured	pity	over	her	sister-in-law	while	simultaneously	kindling
antipathy	towards	the	new	“Lady	Lindsay”—she	visited	her	mother’s	bedside	as
infrequently	as	possible.	She	was	(variously)	“utterly	heartless,”	“the	heartless
bride,”	“a	heartless	serpent,”	“quite	affected	and	namby	pamby,”	“an	icicle,”	“a
horrible	humbug	and	
heartless	hypocrite,”	“that	heartless,	incomprehensible

--- Page 437 ---
woman,”	“the	unnatural	daughter”	and	“that	horrible	Blanche.”	The	object	of
this	torrent	of	vituperation	was	“immensely	happy	at	being	Lady	Lindsay,	and
far	too	much	so,	to	feel	deep	anxiety	for	her	suffering	and	perhaps	dying
mother.”	When	Charlotte	paid	a	call	on	her,	she	found	“the	heartless	staring
creature	giggling	and	grinning	and	simpering	while	she	asked	after	her	dying
mother	as	if	the	poor	sufferer	had	had	a	mere	cold.”
By	mid-November	the	end	was	in	sight.	“Poor	Aunt	H.M.’s	married	life	and
widowed	existence	have	become	one	chain	of	such	uninterrupted	sorrow	and
suffering,”	she	told	her	son,	“that,	for	her	sake,	one	can	hardly	wish	to	see	her
days	prolonged.	As	for	Blanche—no	one	need	waste	a	moment’s	pity	upon	her.
—She	is	either	a	monster	or	an	enigma.	It	is	less	disagreeable	to	look	upon	her	in
the	light	of	the	latter,	and	not	to	un-riddle	her	character.”	“I	feel	very	sad,”	she
added	the	next	day,	“when	I	think	of	such	a	life	of	torture,	and	of	a	deathbed	so
lonely.	Blanche	arrives	at	5	o’clock	in	the	evening,	stays	five	minutes,	and	then
departs.	Do	not	mention	this	heartless	behaviour	as	it	is	a	perfect	disgrace	to	our
family,	and	must	shock	the	domestics	from	whom	constant	fidelity	is	expected.”
And	so	it	went	on.	“Upon	the	plea	that	the	invalid	is	too	weak	to	bear	even	her
adored	presence	beyond	five	or	six	minutes	in	the	course	of	the	day,	[she]	never
puts	her	foot	into	the	house	before	5	o’clock	in	the	evening,	viz	not	before	the
shades	of	evening	put	an	end	to	her	drawing,	in	Sir	C.	Lindsay’s	studio;	then	she
arrives	novel	in	hand,	while	her	unfortunate	mother	carries	on	the	unequal	battle
with	disease	and	death.”
On	the	night	of	December	1,	1864,	Hannah	Mayer	finally	expired.	Her	life
had	been,	Charlotte	reflected,	using	carefully	chosen	words,	“a	long
martyrdom”;	indeed,	in	her	last	weeks	she	had	sometimes	looked	“like	one	of	the
lovely	martyrs	so	much	admired	in	Italian	picture-galleries	and	churches.”	But
Charlotte,	like	her	uncle	James,	did	not	interpret	Hannah	Mayer’s	downfall	in
purely	religious	terms:	it	irked	her	that	her	sister-in-law’s	will	had	omitted	to
dispose	of	£7,000	in	a	savings	account,	money	which	passed	by	default	to	the
Lindsays.	The	idea	of	Rothschild	money	passing	into	other	hands	still	rankled,	a
quarter	of	a	century	after	Hannah	Mayer’s	initial	lapse	from	grace.	Retribution
even	followed	her	to	the	grave	and	beyond,	for	Charlotte	missed	no
transgression	on	the	part	of	Blanche	Lindsay,	notably	her	absence	from	her
mother’s	funeral	(where	“the	Duke	of	Grafton,	Lord	Charles	Fitzroy	and	Lord
Southampton,	who	had	known	and	seen	the	deceased	so	little	.	.	.	never	alluded
to	her	but	talked	of	railroads,	horses	etc.”)	and	her	attempt	to	sell	the	portraits
she	had	inherited	of	her	Rothschild	grandparents	(“To	sell	her	grandmother	and

--- Page 438 ---
her	grandfather;	it	is	not	to	be	believed”).	Everything—her	louche	Pre-
Raphaelite	dresses,	her	widening	girth,	her	deteriorating	eyesight—could	be
construed	as	a	consequence	of	her	mother’s	peculiar	form	of	original	sin.	And
when	her	marriage	foundered	on	the	rocks	of	Lindsay’s	habitual	infidelity,
Anselm’s	son	Ferdinand	could	not	resist	predicting	that	she	would	“repent	.	.	.	in
the	long	run”	her	decision	to	“leave	the	conjugal	room.”	Even	as	late	as	1882,	it
seems,	Hannah	Mayer’s	crime,	though	punished,	had	not	been	forgiven.
	
City	and	Country
Nothing	tells	us	more	about	the	nineteenth-century	Rothschilds’	exceptionally
acute	sense	of	kinship	than	their	treatment	of	Hannah	Mayer.	The	paradox	is	that
her	persecution	coincided	with	an	acceleration	in	the	pace	of	the	family’s	social
and	
cultural	assimilation.	By	not	only	marrying	a	Christian	but	converting	to
Christianity,	she	had	crossed	one	of	the	few	barriers	which	remained	between	the
Rothschilds	and	the	European	social	elite,	and	perhaps	the	only	one	which	the
Rothschilds	themselves	wished	to	preserve.
In	his	satirical	“Book	of	Snobs,”	published	in	
Punch
	in	1846-7,	Thackeray
cited	“the	Scharlachschild	family	at	Paris,	Naples,	Frankfort	&c.”	as	the
archetypes	of	the	“Banking	Snob,”	who	“receives	all	the	world	into	his	circle,”
dispensing	“princely	hospitalities”	and	“entertain[ing]	all	the	world,	even	the
poor,	at	their	fêtes.”	This	was	not	far	wide	of	the	mark.	In	the	decade	after
Nathan’s	death,	the	Rothschilds	greatly	increased	the	amount	of	time	and	energy
they	devoted	to	social	and	cultural	pursuits,	with	James	in	the	vanguard.	To
begin	with,	their	residences	grew	grander	and	more	numerous	in	both	town	and
country.	In	1836	James	commissioned	the	architect,	designer	and	theatre
producer	Charles-Edmond	Duponchel	to	reconstruct	and	redecorate	his	rue
Laffitte	hôtel,	with	money	no	object.	The	result	was	the	quintessential
millionaire’s	palace,	combining	extravagant	historicist	decoration	with	the	latest
modern	comforts.	Among	Duponchel’s	more	spectacular	touches	was	a	wood-
panelled	salon	in	the	Renaissance	style	which	was	dominated	by	Joseph-
Nicholas	Robert-Fleury’s	series	of	Renaissance	scenes	(including	Charles	V	in
Spain,	Luther	preaching	and	Henry	VIII	hunting),	but	which	also	subtly
juxtaposed	the	Rothschild	arms	with	those	of	the	Medici.	(There	was	also	a
billiard	room	with	a	Pom	peii-style	mural	by	François-Edouard	Picot.)	But	this
was	historicism	with	all	mod	cons.	Central	heating	was	provided	for	the	ground
floor	salons	and	dining	room	by	four	brick	ovens	in	the	cellars,	and	all	floors	had
running	water	from	tanks	on	the	top	floor.	There	were	also	four	large	closed

--- Page 439 ---
tanks	for	waste	in	the	cellar,	to	say	nothing	of	gas	lighting	in	the	form	of
moustached	statuettes	holding	mock	torches.	Salomon’s	house	next	door	was
given	similar	treatment,	as	was	the	new	hôtel	Talleyrand	which	James	acquired
in	1838	in	the	more	fashionable	rue	Saint-Florentin	in	the	8th	arrondissement.
The	effect	was	evidently	imposing.	In	1836,	after	a	post-theatre	ball	given	by
James	to	show	off	the	redecorated	rue	Laffitte	house,	Heine	admiringly
described	what	he	called	“the	Versailles	of	the	absolute	reign	of	money”:
Here	everything	comes	together	which	the	spirit	of	the	sixteenth	century	could
invent	and	the	money	of	the	nineteenth	century	could	pay	for;	here	the	genius	of
the	visual	arts	competes	with	the	genius	of	Rothschild.	The	palace	and	its
decorations	have	been	continuously	worked	on	for	two	years	and	the	sums
expended	on	them	are	said	to	be	enormous.	M.	de	Rothschild	smiles	when
someone	questions	him	about	this	.	.	.	One	must,	however,	admire	the	flair	with
which	everything	has	been	done,	as	much	as	the	costliness.
A	Parisian	journal,	the	
Bon	Ton
,	was	even	more	impressed:	the	two	adjacent
houses	“appeared	to	realise	the	tales	of	the	thousand	and	one	nights.	Such	luxury
is	awesome	to	those	who	do	not	have	at	their	command	the	bourses	of	Naples,
Paris	and	London.”	“The	mantels	are	covered	in	gold-fringed	velvet,”	observed
the	vicomte	de	Launay	admiringly.	“The	armchairs	have	lace	antimacassars;	the
walls	are	concealed	under	marvellous	embroidered,	brocaded,	spangled	fabrics
of	such	thickness	and	strength	they	could	stand	alone	and,	if	needed,	actually
support	what	they	
cover,	should	the	walls	give	way.	The	curtains	are	fabulously
beautiful;	they	are	hung	double,	triple,	and	all	over	the	place	.	.	.	Every	piece	of
furniture	is	gilded;	the	walls	too	are	gilded.”	The	Austrian	diplomat	Apponyi,
who	attended	the	same	ball	as	Heine,	was	less	easily	impressed:	he	found	the
Renaissance	style	of	the	new	interiors	“unsuitable	for	a	hôtel	in	Paris;	I	would
prefer	it	in	a	château.”	But	even	he	had	to	admit	that	it	was	“impossible	to	see	a
better	imitation:”
The	paintings	are	on	a	gold	base,	executed	by	excellent	artists,	the	fireplaces	are
admirably	carved.	The	chairs	are	of	ormolu	bronze,	with	very	high	backs,
surmounted	by	figures	holding	the	arms	of	the	house	of	Rothschild	in	enamel.
The	carpets,	the	candelabras,	the	chandeliers,	the	material	of	the	draperies	with
heavy	tassels	of	gold	and	silver—in	short,	everything	is	in	the	same	style;	there
are	clocks	inlaid	and	enamelled	on	azure	base,	solid	gold	vases	encrusted	with
precious	stones	and	fine	pearls.	In	a	word,	it	is	a	luxury	which	surpasses	all
imagination.

--- Page 440 ---
This	was	what	became	known	as	
le	style	Rothschild
—a	style,	in	the	words	of	a
later	critic,	“which	combined	all	the	richest	elements	of	those	which	had
preceded	it	.	.	.	The	heavy	golden	cornices,	the	damask	hung	walls,	the	fringed
and	tasselled	curtains	of	Genoese	velvet,	the	marble	and	the	parquet	.	.	.	Nothing
in	[it]	.	.	.	was	new	save	the	gasoliers.”
To	a	twentieth-century	eye,	all	that	gas-lit	gilt	is	oppressive;	at	the	time	it	was
all	the	rage.	“It	is	infinitely	superior	to	the	house	of	his	daughter-in-law	[
sic
],”
reported	the	duchesse	de	Dino,	after	seeing	Salomon’s	“temple,”	“because	the
proportions	are	more	elevated	and	larger;	the	luxury	of	it	beggars	belief,	but	it	is
tasteful,	pure	Renaissance,	without	any	admixture	of	other	styles	.	.	.	In	the	main
salon,	the	armchairs	instead	of	being	made	of	gilt	wood	are	of	gilt	bronze	and
cost	a	thousand	francs	apiece.”	The	young	Disraeli	concurred.	“Above	all
spectacles,”	he	reported	to	his	sister	Sarah	from	Paris	in	1843,	“was	the	ball	at
B[aron]	Salomon	de	Rothschild	[’s]—an	hotel	in	decoration	surpassing	all	the
palaces	of	Munich—a	greater	retinue	of	servants	&	liveries	more	gorgeous	than
the	Thuilleries	[
sic
]—&	pineapples	plentiful	as	blackberries.	The	taste	of	this
unrivalled	palace	is	equal	to	the	splendour	and	richness	of	its	decorations.”	He
later	paid	a	fictionalised	tribute	to	the	Rothschild	hôtels	in	
Coningsby,
	in	a
passage	describing	Sidonia’s	Paris	residence,	which
had	received	at	his	hands	such	extensive	alterations,	that	nothing	of	the	original
decoration	.	.	.	remained	.	.	.	A	flight	of	marble	steps,	ascending	from	a	vast
court,	led	into	a	hall	of	great	dimensions,	which	was	at	the	same	time	an
orangery	and	a	gallery	of	sculpture.	It	was	illumined	by	a	distinct,	yet	soft	and
subdued	light,	which	harmonised	with	the	beautiful	repose	of	the	surrounding
forms,	and	with	the	exotic	perfume	that	was	wafted	about.	A	gallery	led	from
this	hall	to	an	inner	hall	of	quite	different	character;	fantastic,	glittering,
variegated;	full	of	strange	shapes	and	dazzling	objects.
The	roof	was	carved	and	gilt	in	the	honeycomb	style	prevalent	in	the
Saracenic	buildings;	the	walls	were	hung	with	leather	stamped	in	rich	and	vivid
patterns;	the	floor	was	a	flood	of	mosaic;	about	were	statues	of	negroes	of
human	size	with	faces	of	wild	expression,	and	holding	in	
their	outstretched
hands	silver	torches	that	blazed	with	an	almost	painful	brilliancy.
From	this	inner	hall	a	double	staircase	of	white	marble	led	to	the	grand	suite
of	apartments.
These	saloons,	lofty,	spacious,	and	numerous,	had	been	decorated	principally
in	encaustic	by	the	most	celebrated	artists	of	Munich.	The	three	principal	rooms
were	only	separated	from	each	other	by	columns,	covered	with	rich	hangings,	on

--- Page 441 ---
this	night	drawn	aside.	The	decoration	of	each	chamber	was	appropriate	to	its
purpose.	On	the	walls	of	the	ball	room	nymphs	and	heroes	move	in	measure	in
Sicilian	landscapes,	or	on	the	azure	shores	of	the	Aegean	waters.	From	the
ceiling	beautiful	divinities	threw	garlands	on	the	guests	.	.	.	A	large	saloon
abounded	in	ottomans	and	easy	chairs	.	.	.
James	also	spent	substantial	sums	on	his	château	house	outside	Paris	at
Ferrières,	turning	it	into	a	state-of-the	art	gentleman’s	country	retreat.	Here	the
theme	was	English.	A	laundry	was	built	by	the	architect	Joseph-Antoine
Froelicher	in	the	mock-Tudor	style	and	in	1840	James	added	a	model	farm,
sending	the	estate	manager	to	England	to	pick	up	tips.	He	later	added	an
English-style	dairy	as	well	as	a	brick-kiln	and	British-made	machinery	to	make
water	pipes	for	the	estate.	There	were	also	stables,	a	riding	school	and	riding
track,	not	to	mention	an	orangerie	and	a	new	garden	laid	out	by	Placide	Massey.
When	his	sister-in-law	Hannah	visited	Ferrières	in	1842	she	found	it	“most
imposing.”	Once	again,	aristocratic	guests	like	Apponyi	and	Princess	Lieven,
who	came	to	stay	two	years	later,	were	less	easy	to	impress.	According	to
Apponyi—though	a	hint	of	aristocratic	irony	is	detectable	here—the	Princess
was	much	impressed	by	“the	superb	laundry”	James	and	Betty	had	built	in	the
grounds,	“a	veritable	chef-d’oeuvre	of	the	genre,	picturesque	and	very
convenient.”	However,	when	shown	to	her	room—once	reserved	for	the	late	duc
d’Orléans—the	Princess	complained	that	the	mattresses	were	“hard	and	damp,”
so	that	they	had	to	be	“changed,	dried,	beaten,	placed	and	replaced.”	Apponyi
himself	ridiculed	the	stables	James	had	built,	“a	superb	and	totally	pompous
construction	in	the	style	of	Louis	XIII.”	“Perhaps	it	is	a	little	too	beautiful,”	he
mused,	“as	this	palace	somewhat	overwhelms	the	château	itself.”	The
supercilious	diplomat	also	found	fault	with	the	pond,	which	he	thought	“too	near
the	house,”	and	the	absence	of	formal	gardens	and	flowerbeds.	“Park	and	garden
are	not	separated,”	he	observed	disapprovingly,	“so	that	the	game	can	come	right
into	the	court	of	the	château.”	Yet	even	this	most	discerning	of	guests	had	to
concede	that	the	interiors	“left	nothing	to	be	desired”:
Everything	is	in	good	taste	and	is	very	magnificent.	There	are	some	beautiful
pictures	and	an	infinity	of	beautiful	things	of	all	descriptions,	suits	of	armour,
statuettes,	ewers	in	silver	gilt,	ivory	or	gold,	enriched	by	pearls	and	precious
stones,	consoles	in	bronze,	iron,	silver,	in	old	lacquer,	then	vases	of	every	kind,
decorated	with	precious	stones,	then	antique	cabinets	encrusted	with	ivory	and
silver,	and	Florentine	mosaics.	The	guests’	rooms	are	comfortably	furnished,

--- Page 442 ---
without	excessive	luxury,	but	with	good	carpets,	good	settees,	armchairs,
mirrors,	excellent	beds,	wash-hand	basins	with	plenty	of	towels	.	.	.
Guests	could	also	be	taken	to	see	the	gardens	at	the	Rothschilds’	other
châteaux	at	Boulogne	and	Suresnes.	At	the	former,	the	gardens	were	steadily
enlarged	and	the	
dining	room	combined	with	an	orangerie	for	summer	dining.
James	also	added	a	mock	farm	with	cows,	chickens	and	exotic	breeds	of	sheep.
Despite	the	fact	that	he	spent	little	time	there,	Salomon	lavished	money	on
Suresnes.	The	château	was	enlarged	and	redecorated,	acquiring	elaborate	glass
galleries	round	its	sides.	Like	his	younger	brother,	Salomon	also	played	at
farming,	building	a	dairy	and	accumulating	a	large	stock	of	wildfowl;	but	his
real	love	was	the	garden,	which	he	extended	throughout	his	life,	later	adding
greenhouses	and	a	system	of	irrigation.	As	Lord	William	Russell	reported	when
he	visited	Suresnes	in	1843,	“nature	is	made	to	yield	to	money,	&	produce	the
fruits	&	flowers	of	summer	in	the	spring.”	Two	years	later	James	was	said	to	be
“transplanting	a	great	number	of	very	large	full-grown	yew-trees”	from	Melun	to
Suresnes,	presumably	as	a	gift	to	Salomon.	“Each	tree,”	marvelled	
The	Times
,
“is	a	sufficient	load	to	require	11	horses	to	draw	it.	It	was	thus	that	Louis	XIV
planted	the	grounds	at	Versailles.”	The	parallel,	as	we	have	seen,	had	already
occurred	to	Heine,	and	was	one	to	which	he	and	others	would	return.
The	English	Rothschilds	also	invested	in	their	residences	in	both	country	and
town,	though	on	a	less	Bourbon	scale.	When	Disraeli	attended	a	fête	given	by
Nathan’s	widow	Hannah	at	Gunnersbury	in	1843,	it	impressed	him	as	“a	most
beautiful	park	and	a	villa	worthy	of	an	Italian	Prince,	though	decorated	with	a
taste	and	splendour	which	a	French	financier	in	the	olden	times	could	alone	have
rivalled	.	.	.	[with]	beautiful	grounds,	temples	and	illuminated	walks.”	If	the
interior	of	Sidonia’s	country	house	in	
Tancred
	(1847)	was	partly	modelled	on
Gunnersbury,	as	seems	likely,	there	were	nevertheless	points	of	contrast	with	the
French	Rothschilds’	residences:
Passing	through	a	marble	antechamber,	Tancred	was	ushered	into	an	apartment
half	saloon	and	half	library;	the	choicely-bound	volumes,	which	were	not	too
numerous,	were	ranged	on	shelves	inlaid	in	the	walls,	so	that	they	ornamented,
without	diminishing,	the	apartment.	These	walls	were	painted	in	encaustic,
corresponding	with	the	coved	ceiling,	which	was	richly	adorned	in	the	same
fashion.	A	curtain	of	violet	velvet	covering	if	necessary	the	large	window,	which
looked	upon	a	balcony	full	of	flowers,	and	the	umbrageous	Park;	an	Axminster
carpet,	manufactured	both	in	colour	and	design	with	the	rest	of	the	chamber;	a

--- Page 443 ---
profusion	of	luxurious	seats;	a	large	table	of	ivory	marquetry,	bearing	a	carved
silver	bell	which	once	belonged	to	a	pope;	a	Naiad,	whose	golden	urn	served	as
an	inkstand;	some	daggers	that	acted	as	paper	cutters,	and	some	French	books
just	arrived;	a	group	of	beautiful	vases	recently	released	from	an	Egyptian	tomb
and	ranged	on	a	tripod	of	malachite;	the	portrait	of	a	statesman,	and	the	bust	of
an	emperor,	and	a	sparkling	fire,	were	all	circumstances	which	made	the	room
both	interesting	and	comfortable	.	.	.
If	this	was	rather	more	cosy	than	the	mock-Renaissance,	five-star	splendour	of
Paris,	it	was	meant	to	be.	To	English	eyes,	the	rue	Laffitte	hôtels	seemed	almost
too	grand.	“When	finished,”	Louise	told	her	father	in	1830	(after	a	visit	to	the
house	at	number	17	which	Salomon	had	just	bought),	“I	think	it	will	be	most
magnificent,	it	is	immense	and	could	hold	almost	three	families.”	Lionel	felt	the
same	ambivalence	when	he	took	a	similar	house	in	Paris	shortly	before	his
marriage:	the	ground	floor	would,	he	told	his	bride-to-be,	“rival	.	.	.	any	palace;
at	Paris,	a	rich	man	
whether	Banker	or	Prince	can	act	in	the	same	way,	but	in
every	other	place,	such	an	establishment	would	appear	ridiculous.	The	first	floor,
the	daily	habitation,	is	nearly	as	splendid,	so	much	gold	that	for	the	first	few
days	one	is	quite	dazzled.”	“The	houses	here	are	splendid,”	Nat	wrote	to	Lionel
two	years	later,	“you	know	about	them.	[Aunt]	Betty’s	rooms	are	very	nice,
indeed	rather	too	fine.”
There	were	differences	too	between	the	English	and	French	residences	in	the
country.	For	most	of	his	life	James	stuck	close	to	Paris:	neither	Ferrières	nor
Boulogne	was	very	far	from	the	city.	His	English	nephews,	by	contrast,	began
looking	within	five	years	of	their	father’s	death	for	some	more	authentically
rural	seat	than	semi-suburban	Gunnersbury.	It	still	sufficed	for	certain	social
functions,	and	the	family	remained	fond	of	it:	Hannah	added	33	acres	to	the	76
she	inherited	from	her	husband	and	Lionel	extended	the	estate	to	no	less	than
620	acres	between	1840	and	1873.	But,	as	Disraeli	said	of	its	fictional	analogue
Hainault	House	(in	
Endymion
),	it	was	not	“fashionable.”	Above	all,	it	was	too
close	to	the	city	for	its	owners	to	indulge	in	that	favourite	pastime	of	Victorian
England:	hunting.	No	sooner	had	they	added	to	the	Gunnersbury	property	than
they	began	looking	further	afield,	perhaps	encouraged	by	their	mother’s	glowing
descriptions	of	the	Devonshire	and	Fitzwilliam	estates	in	Derbyshire.	Of	course,
it	would	have	been	quite	impracticable	for	“City	men”	to	have	bought	land	so	far
from	London;	but	Buckinghamshire	seemed	to	offer	all	the	advantages	of
genuine	country	life	at	a	manageable	distance.	The	first	step	in	this	direction
came	when	Nathan	rented	Tring	house	in	1833	for	the	summer.	Three	years	later

--- Page 444 ---
Hannah	bought	some	land	near	Mentmore,	north-east	of	Aylesbury,	and	in	1842,
alerted	by	a	newspaper	advertisement,	Mayer	bought	a	small	group	of	farms	in
the	parishes	of	Mentmore	and	Wing,	laying	the	foundation	of	what	would
rapidly	become	a	substantial	Rothschild	enclave	in	the	county.	Absent	on	duty	in
Paris,	his	elder	brother	Anthony	was	envious:	“It	is	no	harm	to	have	your	money
in	Land.	I	wish	I	knew	of	a	nice	place,	I	would	do	the	same	&	I	hope	one	of
these	days	to	have	it.”
Contrary	to	what	has	sometimes	been	assumed,	the	purchase	of	rural	land	by
the	Rothschilds	did	not	symbolise	some	kind	of	dilution	of	their	capitalist
“spirit”	or	compromise	with	the	“feudal”	old	regime.	Lionel	was	singularly
unimpressed	by	the	vast	piles	of	the	nobility	when	he	visited	them:	Castle
Howard	he	thought	“rather	a	nice	place	but	nothing	wonderful.	It	is	in	fact	just
the	same	as	Blenheim,	only	much	smaller	.	.	.	altogether	a	place	not	worth
putting	oneself	out	to	go	to	see.”	What	he	and	his	brothers	were	doing	in	the
1840s	was	buying	farmland,	and	it	would	have	been	uncharacteristic	if	they	had
not	regarded	their	purchases	at	least	partly	as	straightforward	investments.	There
is	no	doubt	that	Lionel	drove	a	hard	bargain	when	the	family	sought	to	acquire
another	property	at	Creslow.	“I	should	not	mind	having	it,”	he	told	his	brothers
in	1844,	“as	a	33	per	cent	purchase	would	pay	me	3	per	cent,	and	there	are	so
many	little	places	round	it	which	might	be	bought	worth	the	money,	that	the
whole	together	might	be	made	to	pay	a	fair	rate	of	interest.”	Indeed,	the	estates
he	and	his	brother	Anthony	subsequently	bought	to	the	south	of	Mentmore
following	the	bankruptcy	of	the	Duke	of	Buckingham	in	1848	and	the	death	of
Sir	John	Dashwood	the	following	year,	were	typical	Rothschild	acquisitions:
bought	at	the	bottom	of	the	market.	There	was	also,	as	we	shall	see,	a	secondary
and	equally	pragmatic	rationale	for	buying	several	estates	in	one	county:	the
British	system	of	local	government	and	parliamentary	representation	made	such
a	
concentration	of	land	a	useful	source	of	political	influence.	(According	to	one
account,	this	was	why	their	land	agents	Horwood	and	James	advised	buying	land
in	one	area	only.)	It	was	not	until	the	1850s	that	the	brothers	began	to	indulge
themselves	by	building	their	own	“stately	homes.”
Outside	France	and	England,	as	we	have	seen,	there	were	limits	on	how	much
property	the	Rothschilds,	as	Jews,	could	acquire.	After	1830	these	restrictions
began	to	crumble.	In	1841	Carl	bought	himself	the	Villa	Pignatelli	near	Naples,
which	his	daughter	fondly	remembered	as	“a	paradise	upon	earth,	with	a	view
over	the	bay	and	the	islands,	over	the	celebrated	Mount	Vesuvius,	the	most
animated	street	and	the	Villa	Reale,	the	Neapolitan	Kensington	Gardens.”	It	was

--- Page 445 ---
more	difficult	in	Vienna,	however,	where	Salomon	continued	to	live	in	the	rented
Hotel	zum	Römischen	Kaiser	in	the	Renngasse.	Of	course,	he	owned	property
elsewhere,	in	Paris	as	well	as	in	Frankfurt.	But	there	was	a	principle	at	stake—or
so	Salomon	argued	in	a	“special	appeal”	he	addressed	to	Metternich	in	January
1837	concerning	“the	destiny	of	my	co-religionists	.	.	.	the	hopes	of	so	many
fathers	of	families	and	the	highest	aspirations	of	thousands	of	human	beings.”
When	the	government	once	again	refused	to	grant	any	general	relaxation	of
discrimination—lest	“the	public	.	.	.	suddenly	draw	the	conclusion	that	full
emancipation	of	the	Jews	is	contemplated”—Salomon	faced	a	dilemma;	for
Metternich	intimated	that	the	Emperor	was	willing,	at	his	own	discretion	and	as
a	special	privilege,	to	grant	
individual
	Jews	permission	to	own	houses	in	Vienna.
This	was	the	old	story	of	the	prince	and	the	
Hofjude
,	whereby	the	state	“bought
off	”	the	Jewish	banker	on	whom	it	was	dependent	with	special	exemptions.
Salomon	did	not	rush	to	take	advantage	of	this	offer;	but	in	1842—five	years
later—he	succumbed.	His	request	to	own	real	estate	in	the	city	was	speedily
granted,	allowing	him	finally	to	buy	the	Renngasse	hotel	as	well	as	the	adjoining
house,	which	he	demolished	and	rebuilt.	As	he	acknowledged,	this—along	with
the	grant	of	honorary	citizenship	which	went	with	it—made	him	“a	privileged
exception	in	the	midst	of	my	fellow	believers,	who	.	.	.	[ought	to]	have	the	right
to	enjoy	the	same	rights	as	those	who	belong	to	other	religious	confessions.”
It	might	be	thought	that	this	compromise	ran	counter	to	the	stance	taken	on
questions	of	Jewish	civil	rights	by	other	members	of	the	family;	but,	like	Mayer
Amschel	before	them,	most	Rothschilds	seem	to	have	seen	general	rights	and
individual	privileges	as	complementary	rather	than	dichotomous:	if	the	former
could	not	be	had,	the	latter	should	be	accepted.	Salomon	was	not	criticised	for
his	decision	to	accept	Metternich’s	offer.	Indeed,	even	before	he	did,	one	of	his
English	nephews	was	urging	him	“to	get	permission	from	Prince	Metternich	to
purchase	an	estate	in	Bohemia.”	In	1843	Salomon	took	his	advice,	though	it	was
in	fact	in	neighbouring	Moravia	that	he	sought	the	Emperor’s	permission	not
only	to	buy	an	estate	but	also	to	pass	it	on	to	his	heirs.	Once	again	he	was
obliged	to	adopt	the	tones	of	the	humble	but	deserving	court	Jew,	listing	his
various	financial	contributions	to	the	Empire	as	“adequate	proof	of	his
unshakeable	devotion	to	the	Austrian	monarchy”	and	expressing	his	“most
ardent	desire	to	own	property	in	a	country	whose	rulers	have	shown	him	so
many	signal	marks	of	their	favour.”	Again	the	petition	was	granted,	despite	the
reservations	of	the	Moravian	estates.	As	one	official	put	it,	Salomon’s	“position
in	society	is	so	exceptional	that	he	has	been	entirely	removed	from	the	ordinary

--- Page 446 ---
circumstances	of	his	co-religionists;	his	remarkable	qualities	and	rare
intelligence	make	it	entirely	inappropriate	to	apply	strictly	in	his	case	the
regulations	in	force	with	regard	to	other	Israelites.”	The	Lord	Chancellor	Count
Inzághy	was	rather	more	candid:	it	was,	he	argued,
highly	desirable	that	Baron	Rothschild	should	be	more	closely	bound	to	the
Imperial	State	of	Austria	by	the	investment	of	his	money	in	real	property	in	this
country;	and	.	.	.	it	would	create	a	very	strange	impression	abroad	if	his
particular	wish	to	settle	permanently	in	that	country,	where	he	has	been	so
actively	engaged	for	a	long	period	of	years,	and	has	been	associated	with	the
Government	in	more	extensive	and	important	transactions	than	has	ever	been	the
case	before	with	a	private	individual,	were	to	be	refused	after	the	special
distinctions	that	have	been	conferred	upon	him.
In	addition	to	the	estate	Salomon	duly	purchased	at	Koritschau	in	Moravia—
which	together	with	his	property	in	Vienna	gave	him	real	estate	in	the	Empire
worth	2	million	gulden—he	also	acquired	property	in	Prussia,	buying	the	castle
of	Schillersdorf	in	1842.	It	was	a	dispute	relating	to	the	rights	attached	to	this
estate	which	prompted	Heine’s	warning	in	1846	that	“Prussian	aristocrats	would
like	to	use	the	paw	of	the	plebeian	to	stir	up	public	opinion	against	the
exceptional	family
	
(for	that	term	is	the	one	constantly	used	to	describe	the	house
of	Rothschild	in	proceedings	regarding	the	right	of	patronage	over	Schillersdorf
and	Hültschin).”
Surprisingly,	in	view	of	the	protracted	efforts	of	the	town	authorities	to	return
the	Jewish	community	to	the	ghetto	in	the	years	after	1814,	“the	exceptional
family”	encountered	less	of	this	sort	of	hostility	when	they	sought	to	buy	new
properties	in	Frankfurt—a	reflection	perhaps	of	the	changed	political	climate	in
the	town	after	1830.	In	1831,	after	much	hesitation,	Amschel	finally
commissioned	the	Paris-trained	Friedrich	Rumpf	to	redesign	and	expand	the
house	in	his	beloved	garden	on	the	Bockenheimer	Landstrasse.	Rumpf
transformed	the	original	and	quite	modest	cube-shaped	house	into	the	central
pavilion	of	a	larger	neo-classical	villa,	adding	two	wings	with	Corinthian	three-
quarter	columns	and	remodelling	the	garden	itself	along	strictly	symmetrical
lines.	This	mélange	of	Baroque	and	Renaissance	styles	was	fairly	typical	of	the
houses	favoured	by	the	town’s	Gentile	elite	in	this	period,	suggesting	a	new	self-
confidence	on	Amschel’s	part—in	marked	contrast	to	the	mood	of	insecurity
when	he	had	first	acquired	the	property.	In	the	succeeding	years,	his	attachment
to	it	showed	no	sign	of	waning:	during	a	visit	to	her	married	daughters	Charlotte

--- Page 447 ---
and	Louise	in	1844,	Hannah	was	able	to	report	that	“a	handsome	and	very	large
orangery	and	some	magnificent	trees	of	many	sorts”	had	been	added	to	the
garden.
An	even	clearer	signal	of	assumed	equality	with	the	Bethmanns	and	Gontards
came	in	1834,	when	Amschel	bought	the	large,	four-storey	town	house	at
number	34	on	the	prestigious	street	known	as	the	Zeil.	In	the	same	year	Anselm
bought	a	similar	“palais”	(indeed,	by	the	same	architect)	in	the	nearby	Neue
Mainzer	Strasse	(number	45),	a	much	grander	residence	than	the	building	at
number	33	acquired	by	Carl	in	1818	and	made	even	more	grand	by	Rumpf,	who
was	commissioned	to	add	a	new	façade	in	the	Renaissance	style.	It	was	also
Rumpf	whom	Mayer	Carl	commissioned	to	expand	the	house	he	bought	on	the
banks	of	the	Main	in	1846;	but	by	this	time	mere	imitation	was	no	longer	the
Rothschild	objective.	Untermainkai	15—which	today	houses	the	Frankfurt
Jewish	Museum—had	been	built	in	1821	at	
the	end	of	an	elegant	row	of	neo-
classical	houses	for	the	banker	Joseph	Isaak	Speyer,	and	was	already
distinguished	from	its	neighbours	by	its	Italian	Renaissance	style.	Rumpf	made	it
stand	out	even	more.	Although	he	preserved	some	original	features,	notably	the
polygonal	vestibule	projecting	from	the	side	wall,	he	doubled	its	length	and
added	some	distinctly	Oriental	features	(notably	two	new	oriels	with	Moorish
corner	pillars	and	arabesque	balustrades).	The	effect	was	to	dominate,	albeit
subtly,	the	rest	of	the	street—a	symbol	of	the	Rothschilds’	now	well-established
dominance	of	the	city’s	economic	life.
The	Rothschilds	also	acquired	rural	retreats	in	the	vicinity	of	Frankfurt	during
this	period.	In	1835	Amschel	bought	a	country	
Schloss
	at	Grüneburg	and	two
years	later	Carl	acquired	a	similar	property,	the	Günthersburg.	In	fact,	the	literal
translation	(“castle”)	somewhat	exaggerates	the	size	of	the	original	houses,	and
at	150	acres	or	so	their	grounds	were	relatively	modest.	In	one	respect,	however,
the	Frankfurt	Rothschilds	were	more	ambitious	than	their	relatives,	for	they	were
the	first	members	of	the	family	to	build	their	own	country	houses	rather	than
merely	renovate	the	existing	buildings.	This	gave	rise	to	an	aesthetic	debate
within	the	family,	in	which	the	English	(represented	at	Frankfurt	by	Anselm’s
wife	Charlotte	and	Mayer	Carl’s	wife	Louise)	emphatically	lost.
In	1840	Mayer	Carl	commissioned	Rumpf	to	build	a	new	“country	residence”
at	Günthersburg.	The	design	was	not	dissimilar	to	that	of	the	Untermainkai
house,	with	Doric	pilasters	across	the	ground	and	first	floors	and	Corinthian	ones
on	the	upper	floors	of	the	two	side	projections.	“The	house	is	large	and	when
finished	will	be	a	magnificent	residence,”	reported	his	mother-in-law	Hannah,

--- Page 448 ---
“but	the	grounds	and	garden	do	not	accord	with	English	taste.”	Her	son	shared
her	opinion:	it	would	be	“a	most	magnificent	house,	large	enough	to	hold	us	all”
and	the	garden	would	be	“pretty,”	“but	it	is	a	pity	that	such	a	large	house	is	not	in
the	middle	of	10,000	acres	about	ten	miles	from	the	town.”
1
	The	argument
continued	when	Anselm	resolved	to	build	a	new	“garden	house”	on	the
Grüneburg	estate.
2
	Doubtless	remembering	her	childhood	at	Gunnersbury,	his
wife	Charlotte	insisted	that	the	new	house	be	“perfectly	English”	in	style,	and
asked	her	brothers	to	supply	designs	from	London.	“I	am	hesitating	between	the
Elizabethan	and	the	cottage	style,”	she	told	her	mother.	“She	wants	some	of	the
Gothic,	Elizabethan	and	all	sorts,”	reported	Lionel	somewhat	dismissively.	“Not
a	palace	but	a	good	sized	House.”	But	she	was	evidently	overruled.	The	design
she	and	her	husband	eventually	agreed	on	was	for	a	long	rectangular	house	in	the
style	of	a	Loire	château.	With	its	tower-like	projections	at	the	corners,	its	layers
of	sandstone	on	the	ground	floor,	its	balustrades,	obelisks,	volutes	and	chimneys,
it	was	an	eclectic	edifice.	The	only	concession	to	Charlotte	was	a	tall	neo-Gothic
brick	tower	at	the	northern	end	of	the	park—a	conspicuously	English	touch.
	
Elite	Pursuits
Such	arguments	about	architectural	style	are	indicative	of	an	important	sea-
change	in	Rothschild	attitudes	in	the	period	which	followed	Nathan’s	death.
Before	1836,	as	we	have	seen,	he	and	his	brothers	had	tended	to	regard	the
acquisition	of	more	spacious	residences	in	an	essentially	functional	light:	apart
from	simply	being	more	comfortable,	they	provided	settings	where	the	great	and
the	good	could	be	wined	and	dined—and	pumped	for	useful	news	or	lucrative
business.	After	1836,	the	endless	round	of	dinner	parties	and	balls	continued.
The	ball	in	March	1836	which	James	threw	to	show	off	his	refurbished	hôtel	was
probably	not	untypical:	“As	at	all	Rothschild	soirées,”	Heine	reported,	the	guests
were	“a	strictly	selected	set	of	aristocratic	illustrations,	able	to	make	an
impression	by	reason	of	great	name	or	high	rank	or	(in	the	case	of	the	ladies)
beauty	and	finery.”	Contemporaries	generally	agreed	on	this:	whereas	before
1830	there	had	been	one	or	two	Restoration	grandees	who	had	continued	to
decline	James’s	invitations,	after	the	advent	of	the	“bourgeois	monarchy”	the
faubourg	Saint-Germain	had	less	cause	to	remain	aloof.	“The	company	all	the
elite	of	Paris,”	was	Disraeli’s	succinct	summary	of	the	guests	invited	to	the	ball
he	attended	at	Salomon’s	in	1843.	The	guest	lists	of	dinners	given	by	James	tell
much	the	same	story.

--- Page 449 ---
In	London	too	Rothschild	hospitality	became	more	lavish,	more	modish.	In
July	1838	Lionel	hosted	an	extravagant	summer	ball	at	Gunnersbury	to	which	he
invited	over	500	people,	among	them	the	dukes	of	Cambridge,	Sussex,	Somerset
and	Wellington.	After	a	concert	by	leading	musicians	and	singers,	dinner	was
served	followed	by	(according	to	Moses	Montefiore)	“a	grand	ball	.	.	.	in	a
magnificent	tent	erected	for	the	purpose.”	The	Cambridges	dined	at	Gunnersbury
again	that	September;	and	five	years	later	they	were	in	attendance	at	another	ball
there,	along	with	the	Duchess	of	Gloucester	and	Ernst	I	of	Saxe	Coburg,	Prince
Albert’s	father—an	impressive	trio	of	royal	relations.	Even	in	Frankfurt	the	last
social	constraints	seemed	to	fall	away.	In	1846,	for	example,	Lionel’s	sister
Charlotte	gave	“a	magnificent	ball”	there.	Among	the	Frankfurt	Rothschilds’
dinner	guests	in	this	period	were	the	King	of	Württemberg,	Prince	Loewenstein
and	Prince	Wittgenstein.	Disraeli	is	once	again	apposite	(this	time	fictionalising
in	
Endymion
):
In	a	very	short	time	it	was	not	merely	the	wives	of	ambassadors	and	ministers	of
state	that	were	found	at	the	garden	fêtes	of	Hainault,	or	the	balls,	and	banquets,
and	concerts	of	Portland	Place,	but	the	fitful	and	capricious	realm	of	fashion
surrendered	like	a	fair	country	conquered	as	it	were	by	surprise.	To	visit	the
Neuchatels	became	the	mode;	all	solicited	to	be	their	guests,	and	some	solicited
in	vain.
As	the	frequency	of	such	descriptions	suggests,	the	scale	and	ostentation	of
Rothschild	hospitality	never	ceased	to	fascinate	contemporaries—especially
socially	ambitious	men	of	letters	like	Disraeli.	In	
Tancred
,	there	is	an	exquisite
dinner	at	Sidonia’s,	“served	on	Sèvres	porcelain	of	Rose	du	Barry,	raised	on	airy
golden	stands	of	arabesque	workmanship;	a	mule	bore	your	panniers	of	salt,	or	a
sea-nymph	proffered	it	you	on	a	shell	just	fresh	from	the	ocean,	or	you	found	it
in	a	bird’s	nest;	by	every	guest	a	different	pattern	.	.	.	The	appearance	of	the	table
changed	as	if	by	the	waving	of	a	wand,	and	as	silently	as	a	dream.”	In	
Endymion
,
the	same	author	caricatures	what	is	unmistakably	a	weekend	party	at
Gunnersbury.	“Sunday	was	a	great	day	at	Hainault,	the	Royal	and	the	Stock
Exchanges	were	both	of	them	always	fully	represented;	and	then	they	often	had
an	opportunity,	which	they	highly	appreciated,	of	seeing	and	conferring	with
some	public	characters,	MPs	of	note	or	promise,	and	occasionally	a	secretary	of
the	Treasury,	or	a	privy	councillor.”	At	dinner	a	sycophantic	writer	named	St
Barbe—a	caricature	of	Thackeray—holds	forth	in	praise	of	his	hosts:
“What	a	family	this	is!”	he	said;	“I	had	no	idea	of	wealth	before!	Did	you

--- Page 450 ---
observe	the	silver	plates?	I	could	not	hold	mine	with	one	hand,	it	was	so	heavy.	I
do	not	suppose	there	are	such	plates	in	all	the	world	.	.	.	But	they	deserve	their
wealth,”	he	added;	“nobody	grudges	it	to	them.	I	declare	when	I	was	eating	that
truffle,	I	felt	a	glow	about	my	heart	that,	if	it	were	not	indigestion,	I	think	must
have	been	gratitude	.	.	.	He	is	a	wonderful	man,	that	Neuchatel.	If	I	had	only
known	him	a	year	ago!	I	would	have	dedicated	my	novel	to	him.	He	is	a	sort	of
man	who	would	have	given	you	a	cheque	immediately	.	.	.	If	you	had	dedicated
it	to	a	lord,	the	most	he	would	have	done	would	have	been	to	ask	you	to	dinner,
and	then	perhaps	cut	up	your	work	in	one	of	the	Quality	reviews.”
3
In	truth,	for	the	Rothschilds	themselves	these	occasions	continued	to	be	more
a	duty—an	early	form	of	corporate	hospitality—than	a	pleasure.	“Here	we	have
stinking	balls	night	after	night,”	complained	Nat	to	his	brothers	in	1843;	“you
have	no	idea	how	sweaty	the	old	French	ladies	smell	after	a	long	waltz.”	Nor
were	the	nightly	dinners	for	diplomats	and	politicians	much	more	enjoyable:	on
April	30,	1847,	when	the	guests	included	the	Prince	of	Holstein-Glücksburg,	the
Duke	of	Devonshire	and	Lord	and	Lady	Holland,	Apponyi	could	not	help
noticing	the	“affreuses	douleurs	névralgiques	à	la	tête”	from	which	Nat’s	wife
was	all	too	plainly	suffering.	As	for	the	incessant	games	of	whist	which	were
such	a	characteristic	feature	of	nineteenth-century	elite	socialising—and	which
seem	to	have	been	the	main	form	of	entertainment	at	Naples—these	too	palled
after	a	time.	Most	members	of	the	family	also	had	decidedly	mixed	feelings
about	the	time	they	spent	each	year	“taking	the	waters”	at	spas	like	Aix,	Gastein,
Wildbad	and	Kissingen,	a	practice	first	adopted	by	James	in	the	early	1830s.
Though	this	was	the	“done”	thing,	James	rarely	enthused	about	taking	a	
Kur
;
indeed,	he	appears	to	have	regarded	it	primarily	as	a	medical	necessity	and	often
took	the	waters	after	illnesses	or	periods	of	intense	and	exhausting	work.	As	he
grew	older,	he	tended	to	spend	longer	and	longer	periods	of	the	summer
recuperating	in	this	way,	but	he	generally	continued	to	bombard	his	nephews	or
sons	in	Paris	with	peremptory	letters,	and	insisted	on	being	kept	informed	of	any
business	developments.	Salomon	enthused	about	“the	air	and	the	mountains,	the
waterfalls	[and]	the	good	bath	water”	at	Gastein	in	1841,	and	Anthony	joked	that
the	waters	were	good	for	James’s	libido;	but	Mayer’s	reaction	to	Wildbad	was
more	typical.	“You	have	no	idea,”	he	complained	to	Lionel	in	1846,	“how	dull
this	place	is	and	if	I	had	not	determined	on	taking	the	number	of	baths
prescribed,	how	soon	I	would	bolt.”
The	image	of	bolting,	however,	was	a	hint	at	more	enjoyable	pastimes	which,

--- Page 451 ---
by	the	1830s,	James	and	his	nephews	were	discovering.	Of	these,	hunting	was	an
early	favourite.	It	is	necessary	to	distinguish	here	between	three	separate,	though
related	activities,	all	of	which	were	to	become	staple	Rothschild	hobbies.	Firstly,
there	was	shooting,	mainly	of	pheasants,	which	James	was	doing	at	Ferrières	by
the	early	1830s.	Secondly,	there	was	stag-hunting,	which	was	one	of	the	things
which	attracted	his	English	nephews	to	Buckinghamshire	in	the	1840s.	Finally,
there	was	horse-racing,	an	enthusiasm	related	to	hunting,	though	requiring	more
carefully	bred	and	trained	horses—not	to	mention	professional	jockeys.
Of	these	pastimes,	shooting	was	the	most	closely	related	to	the	pattern	of
social	activity	established	in	the	1820s.	In	September	1832,	with	the	aftershocks
of	the	July	Revolution	still	reverberating,	Lionel	“accompanied	Montalivet	&
Apponyi	out	shooting	which	in	any	other	times	than	the	present	would	be	very
amusing,	but	now	one	goes	with	these	great	personages	to	hear	what	is	going	on
more	than	for	the	sake	of	the	amusement.”	That	instrumental	approach	continued
to	inform	his	uncle	James’s	attitude	throughout	the	decade,	most	obviously	in
1835,	when	he	staged	an	immense	slaughter	of	506	partridges,	359	hares	and	110
pheasants	in	honour	of	the	duc	d’Orleans.	This	was	corporate	hospitality	at	its
most	grotesque,	with	the	unfortunate	birds	and	beasts	being	bought	in	specially
for	the	occasion,	and	each	of	the	eminent	guests	being	provided	with	a	servant,	a
dog	and	a	gun.	Inevitably,	more	discerning	huntsmen	looked	askance	at	such
carnage.	Capefigue	is	quite	vehement	on	the	subject	of	the	sport	at	Ferrières:
“Bad	kennels,	bad	hounds,	horses	dead-beat	after	the	first	gallop,	greedy
gamekeeper,	game	sold	off,	venison	scrawny,	servants	scoffing	and	lacking	in
intelligence.”	And	even	James’s	own	nephews	were	conscious	that	there	was
room	for	improvement.	In	1843,	in	an	ambitious	bid	to	re-educate	their	uncle,
they	invited	him	to	shoot	grouse	with	them	in	Scotland.	“The	shooting	is
different	to	what	we	are	accustomed	to	see	and	particularly	to	that	which	our
good	Uncle	has	at	Ferrières	where	all	the	game	is	driven	to	him	and	he	has	but	to
fire	away,”	Lionel	observed	acerbically.
Here	we	have	to	walk	after	the	dogs	and	to	seek	for	the	game,	which	is	a
much	greater	excitement	and	at	the	same	time	more	fatiguing.	In	the
beginning	the	Baron	was	very	eager	and	followed	the	dogs	very	well,	and
was	rather	lucky	in	killing	about	15,	but	he	soon	got	tired,	when	I	was
then	able	to	shoot	a	little	and	killed	about	as	many	.	.	.	[T]he	walking	is	a
little	fatiguing,	as	the	heath	in	most	places	is	nearly	up	to	one’s	knees.
The	younger	generation	evidently	relished	the	discomfiture	of	“the	Baron”:	both

--- Page 452 ---
Nat	and	Anselm	gleefully	visualised	James	returning	to	Paris	clad	“as	a	real
highlander,	in	a	tartan	dress,	the	claymore	in	his	hand	and	exhibiting	a
flourishing	view	of	stout	legs	and	calves.”
The	hunting	preferred	by	James’s	English	nephews	was	stag-hunting	on
horseback	with	hounds.	Probably	at	Mayer’s	instigation,	they	began	hunting
with	a	pack	of	staghounds	in	the	Vale	of	Aylesbury	in	1839,	renting	stables	and
kennels	at	Tring	Park.	It	was	this	new	enthusiasm,	more	than	anything	else,
which	prompted	the	purchase	of	Mentmore	three	years	later.	By	1840,	“turning
out	the	stag”	was	a	recreation	attracting	not	only	the	male	Rothschilds	but	their
wives	to	Buckinghamshire,	though	it	was	not	until	five	years	later	that	they	felt
ready	to	hold	a	public	hunt.	The	most	passionate	Rothschild	testaments	to	the
pleasures	of	the	chase	come,	poignantly,	from	Nat,	the	exile	in	Paris,	whose	early
letters	abound	with	allusions	to	hunting.	“What	magic	there	is	in	a	pair	of	leather
breeches,”	he	wrote	home	in	1842.	“I	have	half	a	mind	to	put	a	pair	on	and
gallop	round	the	bois	de	Boulogne—old	Tup	[Mayer]	would	exclaim,	“Go	it,
you	cockney!”	Write	more	about	hunting	&	whether	old	Tup	manages	to	tumble
into	the	dirty	black	ditches,	how	H.	Fitzroy	was	induced	to	go	out	with	the
staghounds—everything	is	of	interest	to	us	poor	fellows	who	can	only	hunt
through	the	columns	of	Bell’s	Life.”	And	in	
the	same	year:	“We	are	going	to
Lady	Ailesbury’s	tonight.	I’d	sooner	have	a	run	for	40	minutes	across	the	vale
than	look	at	her	ugly	face	without	a	veil.”	In	1841	Sir	Francis	Grant	was
commissioned	to	paint	all	four	brothers	at	full	tilt	on	their	hunters,	resplendent	in
matching	scarlet	coats	and	top	hats.	In	fact,	it	was	seldom	that	all	four	were	able
to	ride	to	hounds	together.
It	is	tempting	to	conclude	from	such	evidence	that	the	fad	for	stag-hunting
was	nothing	more	than	the	hedonism	of	wealthy	youth,	the	stuff	which	would
later	be	immortalised	by	Surtees	and	Siegfried	Sassoon.	Yet	there	is	a	phrase	of
Nat’s	which	hints	at	something	more.	“Ride	like	trumps,”	he	exhorted	his
brothers	in	1840,	“and	do	not	let	the	Queen’s	people	fancy	we	are	all	tailors.”	As
in	Paris,	hunting	inevitably	had	a	social	significance:	it	meant	mixing	with
members	of	the	aristocracy,	including	courtiers,	men	who	would	tend	to	be
accomplished	riders.	It	mattered	to	the	sons	of	the	textile	merchant	Nathan
Rothschild	to	prove	that	they	were	not	“all	tailors”	by	acquitting	themselves	well
over	the	hedges	and	gates	of	Buckinghamshire.	And	of	course	it	was	good
exercise:	something	which	their	grandfather,	confined	in	the	Judengasse,	had
been	denied	and	their	father	had	scorned.	It	is	not	inconceivable	that	the	older
Rothschilds’	very	sedentary	lifestyles	made	them	susceptible	to	the	kind	of

--- Page 453 ---
ailment	which	killed	Nathan.	On	the	other	hand,	the	fact	that	Nat	suffered	a
serious	injury	as	a	result	of	a	riding	accident	bore	out	his	father’s	warnings	many
years	before	about	the	incompatibility	of	bankers	and	horses.
The	same	was	true	of	the	brothers’	first	forays	into	horse-racing.	We	know
from	Buxton	that	Nathan	had	whetted	his	sons’	appetites	for	Arab	horses,	and
Lionel	was	self-confessedly	“extravagant”	in	his	expenditure	on	horses	while
serving	his	apprenticeship	in	Paris.	It	was	not	until	around	1840,	however,	that
Anthony	began	to	own	and	compete	racehorses:	in	that	year	one	of	his	horses
won	the	Champs	de	Mars	in	Paris.	This	was	in	some	ways	the	height	of
Rothschild	social	pretension	in	the	period,	as	the	pre-eminent	owner	of	the	day
in	Paris	was	none	other	than	the	duc	d’Orléans.	His	death	in	a	carriage	accident
in	July	1842	left	the	field	to	some	extent	open:	as	Disraeli	wrote	that	October,
“Anthony	succeeds	the	Duke	of	Orleans	in	his	patronage	of	the	turf	&	gives
costly	cups	to	the	course	wh[ich]	his	horses	always	win.”	Nat,	still	fondly
dreaming	of	the	Vale,	was	disapproving,	and	warned	his	youngest	brother:	“Race
horses	are	ticklish	things,	very	pleasant	to	have	a	lot	when	they	win,	quite	the
contrary	when	they	lose	.	.	.	Dear	Tupus	stick	to	the	scarlet	coat,	instead	of	the
silk	jacket,	it	is	more	beneficial	to	the	health	and	less	expensive.”	But	Mayer,
evidently	inspired	by	Anthony’s	success,	shortly	afterwards	established	a	racing
stable	at	Newmarket;	it	was	he	who	in	1843	(after	toying	with	the	more	garish
combination	of	amber,	lilac	and	red)	registered	the	Rothschild	colours	as	dark
blue	and	yellow.
	
Investing	in	Art
The	pleasures	of	the	field	were	not	the	only	ones	discovered	by	James	and	his
nephews	after	1830.	An	even	more	important	new	source	of	enjoyment—and
prestige—was	patronage	of	the	arts;	and	here	we	see	clearly	that	Rothschilds
were	doing	much	more	than	merely	“aping”	aristocratic	mores.
Of	course,	there	were	those	who	erroneously	took	James	de	Rothschild	for	a
philistine.	“If	only	I	had	Rothschild’s	money!”	exclaims	Gumpelino	in	a	draft	of
“The	Baths	of	Lucca”	written	by	Heine	in	around	1828,	three	years	before	he	left
Germany	for	Paris:
But	what	use	is	it	to	him?	He	lacks	culture	and	understands	as	much	about	music
as	an	unborn	calf,	about	painting	as	a	cat,	about	poetry	as	Apollo—that’s	the
name	of	my	dog.	When	men	like	that	lose	their	money,	they	cease	to	exist.	What
is	money?	Money	is	round	and	rolls	away,	but	education	endures	.	.	.	But	if	I—

--- Page 454 ---
God	forbid—were	to	lose	my	money,	I	would	still	remain	a	great	connoisseur	of
art,	painting,	music	and	poetry.
Fifteen	years	later,	by	which	he	time	he	knew	James	pretty	well,	he	took	a	rather
different	view,	though	the	compliments	were—as	so	often	with	Heine—strictly
back-	handed.	James,	he	now	admitted,	had
the	capacity	of	finding	(if	not	always	of	judging)	the	leading	practitioners	in
every	other	sphere	of	activity.	Because	of	this	gift	he	has	been	compared	with
Louis	XIV;	and	it	is	true	that	in	contrast	to	his	colleagues	here	in	Paris,	who	like
to	surround	themselves	with	mediocrities,	Herr	James	von	Rothschild	always
appears	in	association	with	the	notabilities	of	any	subject;	even	if	he	knew
nothing	about	it	himself,	he	still	always	knew	who	most	excelled	in	it.	He	does
not,	perhaps,	understand	a	single	note	of	music;	but	Rossini	was	always	a	friend
of	the	family.	Ary	Scheffer	is	his	court	painter	.	.	.	Herr	von	Rothschild	knows
not	a	word	of	Greek;	but	the	Hellenist	Letronne	is	the	scholar	he	favours	most	.	.
.	Poetry,	whether	French	or	German,	is	also	very	eminently	represented	in	Herr
von	Rothschild’s	affections;	although	it	seems	to	me	as	if	.	.	.	the	Herr	Baron	is
not	as	wildly	enthusiastic	about	the	poets	of	our	own	day	as	he	is	for	the	great
poets	of	the	past,	for	example,	Homer,	Sophocles,	Dante,	Cervantes,
Shakespeare,	Goethe—pure,	dead	poets,	enlightened	geniuses,	who	are	free	from
all	earthly	dross,	removed	from	all	wordly	needs,	and	do	not	ask	him	for	shares
in	the	Northern	Railway.
As	we	shall	see,	this	last	remark	was	a	pointed	allusion	to	Heine’s	own
relationship	with	James;	but	leaving	that	aside—and	making	due	allowance	for
Heine’s	satirical	hyperbole—it	is	obvious	that	the	above	passage	(published	in
1843	in	the	
Augsburger	Zeitung
)	could	hardly	have	been	written	of	a	man	with
no	interest	in	the	arts.	Even	if	James	himself	was	no	expert,	he	admired	expertise
—and	that	is	a	very	different	thing	from	being	a	philistine.	When	another
ambitious	young	man	of	letters	(also,	like	Heine,	a	converted	Jew)	first	met
James	at	a	dinner	in	Paris	the	year	before,	he	hit	the	nail	on	the	head.	“I	found
him,”	Benjamin	Disraeli	told	his	sister,	“a	happy	mixture	of	the	French	Dandy	&
the	orange	boy.	He	spoke	to	me	with[ou]t	ceremony	with	‘I	believe	you	know
my	
nephew
.’	”	The	“orange	boy”	in	James	was	most	strongly	evident	in	the
strong	Frankfurt	accent	with	which	he	spoke	French,	and	in	the	peremptory
manner	which	he	shared	with	his	brother	in	London;	but	the	“French	Dandy”
was	the	man	within,	who	always	enjoyed	the	company	of	artists,	musicians	and
writers.	An	English	visitor	to	Paris	in	the	1850s	noticed	this	too,	when	she	called

--- Page 455 ---
on	“Mme.	de	Roth	.	.	.	whose	poetic	abode	has	more	the	air	of	the	palace	of	a
wealthy	artist	than	the	hôtel	of	a	millionaire.”	For	all	his	rough	manners,	James
was,	in	his	heart,	something	of	an	aesthete—even	a	Bohemian—though	he
indulged	this	trait	vicariously,	surrounding	himself	with	beautiful	objects	and
introducing	one	or	two	of	their	more	entertaining	creators	into	his	otherwise
stuffy	social	round.	Something	similar	could	be	said	of	his	English	nephews,
whose	love	of	hunting	was	only	one	facet	of	their	wide-ranging	activity	beyond
the	walls	of	the	counting	house.
It	was	on	other	walls	that	the	“acculturation”	of	the	Rothschilds	was	perhaps
most	immediately	obvious—specifically,	on	the	walls	of	their	houses,	which
gradually	became	covered	with	paintings	of	the	very	highest	quality.	The	first
picture	of	note	bought	by	a	Rothschild	was	French	artist	Jean-Baptiste	Greuze’s
The	Milkmaid
	—a	typically	rustic-romantic	work	of	the	late	rococo—which
James	acquired	as	early	as	1818.	Greuze	was	a	favourite	Rothschild	artist:	James
bought	another	of	his	paintings—
Little	Girl	with	Bouquet
—from	the	auction	of
Cardinal	Fesch’s	estate	in	1845,	and	his	nephew	Lionel	began	his	collection	by
buying	his	
Virtue	Faltering
	at	Phillips’	auctioneers	in	1831;	he	later	acquired
four	other	works	by	the	same	artist,	among	them	
The	Parting	Kiss
.	His	brother
Anthony	owned	another	two,	including	
The	Nursery
.	Such	pictures
complemented	the	numerous	items	of	
ancien	régime
	furniture	and	ornamentation
acquired	by	the	family,	like	the	Marie	Antoinette	secretaires	and	Sèvres
porcelain	owned	by	James.	Another	favourite	artist	was	the	seventeenth-century
Spanish	artist	Bartolomé	Estebán	Murillo,	whose	work	Lionel	may	have
discovered	when	he	went	to	Madrid	in	1834,	where,	as	he	freely	admitted,	he
spent	“all	my	leisure	time	.	.	.	in	running	about	after	pictures	which	are	in	very
great	number	but	few	good	ones.”	By	the	end	of	the	1840s	he,	his	uncle	and	his
mother	all	owned	Murillos.
But	it	was	the	art	of	seventeenth-century	Holland	which	the	family	found	most
attractive.	In	1840	James	bought	Rembrandt’s	
The	Standard	Bearer
	from	George
IV’s	collection,	which	he	hung	in	the	grand	salon	at	the	rue	Laffitte;	he	also
owned	the	same	artist’s	
Portrait	of	a	Young	Man
	(which	was	in	the	sitting	room)
as	well	as	Franz	Hals’s	
Portait	of	a	Nobleman
	and	works	by	Anthony	van	Dyck,
Peter	Paul	Rubens,	Jacob	van	Ruisdael	and	Philips	Wouwermans.	In	1836	Lionel
bought	Gerard	ter	Borch’s	
Young	Lady	with	her	Page
	in	Frankfurt,	and	a	year
later	added	four	paintings	by	Wouwermans	from	the	sale	of	the	duchesse	de
Berry’s	collection	as	well	as	three	by	Jan	van	der	Heyden,	including	
Rosendaal
Castle
	and	his	
View	of	Haarlem
	.	He	bought	two	more	Wouwermans	works	and	a

--- Page 456 ---
Pieter	de	Hooch	from	George	Lucy’s	collection	in	1845.	By	the	time	the	German
art	expert	Gustav	Waagen	visited	him	in	Piccadilly	in	around	1850,	his	collection
included	three	paintings	by	Meindert	Hobbema,	three	by	van	Ruisdael,	a	Paulus
Potter,	a	Karel	du	Jardin,	an	Adam	Pynacker,	two	Jan	Wynants	and	an	Isaac	van
Ostade.	He	later	added	two	pictures	by	Nicolaes	Berchem,	five	works	by	Aalbert
Cuyp—including	his	
View	on	a	Frozen	River
—six	paintings	by	the	van	Mieris,
father	and	son,	two	by	Gaspar	Netscher,	three	by	Gerard	ter	Borch	and	seven	by
David	Teniers	the	Younger,	as	well	as	still-lifes	by	Jan	David	de	Heem,	Jan	van
Huysum,	Rachel	Ruysh,	Jan	Weenix	and	Peter	Gysels.	This	taste	was	evidently
shared	by	his	brother	Anthony:	in	1833	he	bought	a	picture	of	a	nurse	and	child
playing	with	a	goat	which	appeared	to	bear	Rembrandt’s	signature	(it	was	later
reattributed	to	Nicolaes	Maes	when	the	signature	was	shown	to	be	a	forgery)	and
by	1850	had	acquired	works	by	Wouwermans,	Teniers,	Van	Dyck,	Rubens	and
van	Ostade.
That	something	resembling	a	collective	“Rothschild	taste”	developed	in	this
period	is	not	surprising,	as	to	a	large	extent	the	family	acted	in	concert,	alerting
one	
another	to	major	sales	and	acting	for	one	another	in	different	markets.	In
1840	James	asked	Anthony	“to	dispose	of	the	Rembrandt	if	it	could	be	done	with
advantage,”	but	“on	reflection”	decided	against	buying	a	Murillo	through	his
nephew.	He	and	his	nephews	sought	to	ensure	that	a	major	Roman	collection
was	auctioned	in	Paris	rather	than	London	in	1841.	“We	want	to	do	it	together,”
wrote	James.	“Perhaps	we	will	get	some	nice	paintings.”	Typically,	when	two
Murillos	were	offered	for	auction	in	Paris	in	1843,	Nat	considered	buying	them
for	his	mother,	though	in	the	end	he	left	them	to	Salomon’s	wife	Caroline.	By	the
time	of	her	death,	Hannah	owned	works	by	Murillo,	Cuyp	and	Teniers,	all
probably	bought	for	her	by	her	sons.	There	was	also	a	natural	shared	tendency	to
favour	secular	subjects	over	religious	works—perhaps	the	best	explanation	for
the	over-representation	of	Dutch	artists—though	this	was	far	from	being	a	rule.
Interestingly,	the	Rothschilds	bought	not	only	Old	Testament	scenes	(such	as
Paul	Delaroche’s	
Moses	in	the	Bullrushes
)	but	also	some	works	of	explicitly
Christian	iconography.	In	1840	Lionel	acquired	Murillo’s	
Infant	Christ	as	the
Good	Shepherd
	from	a	London	dealer	and	he	later	purchased	Domenichino’s
Head	of	a	Magdalene
	and	Andrea	del	Sarto’s	
Madonna	and	Child
;	while	James
owned	Jan	van	Eyck	and	Petrus	Christi’s	
Chartreux	Madonna
	and	a	Luini	
Virgin
and	Child
.	In	1846	Anthony	was	given	Van	Dyck’s	
The	Abbot	Scaglia	Adoring
the	Virgin	and	Child
	by	his	father-in-law.
It	would	be	wrong,	however,	to	exaggerate	the	homogeneity	of	Rothschild

--- Page 457 ---
collections	even	at	this	early	period.	When	Nat	bought	Velazquez’s	
Lady	with
Fan
,	he	observed	that	“pictures	are	something	like	ladies,	everyone	must	please
himself	and	select	according	to	his	taste	.	.	.	It	would	not	please	everyone	as	the
face	is	not	a	pretty	one,	although	very	well	painted.”	His	brother	Lionel’s
enthusiasm	for	eighteenth-century	English	artists	was	not	shared	by	James	(and
was	in	many	ways	ahead	of	its	time	in	Britain	too).	In	1846	he	acquired	Sir
Joshua	Reynolds’s	
Portrait	of	Master	Braddyl
	at	Christie’s,	the	first	of	several
Reynolds	works	(the	others	were	his	
Portrait	of	Mrs	Lloyd
,	
Portrait	of	Miss
Meyer	as	Hebe
	and	
Snake	in	the	Grass:	Love	Unbinding	the	Zone	of	Beauty
).
Later	he	turned	to	Thomas	Gainsborough,	buying	his	
Portrait	of	the	Hon.
Frances	Duncombe
	for	£1,500	in	1871	and	his	
Portrait	of	Mrs	Sheridan
	the
following	year	at	Christie’s.	He	also	owned	George	Romney’s	
Portait	of	Emma,
Lady	Hamilton
	and	works	by	Sir	William	Beechey	and	John	Hoppner.	This
enthusiasm	for	relatively	recent	portraits	of	individuals	quite	unrelated	(and	in
all	probability	unknown)	to	the	Rothschilds	is	especially	surprising,	though	later
in	the	nineteenth	century	such	works	were	all	the	rage.	Lionel’s	youngest	brother
Mayer	owned	a	Gainsborough	too—a	fox-coursing	scene—but	he	also	bought
works	by	Cranach	and	Titian,	who	are	not	represented	in	other	Rothschild
collections	of	the	period.
The	Frankfurt	Rothschilds	had	rather	different	tastes	again.	It	is	hard	to
imagine	Wilhelm	Tischbein’s	
Goethe	in	the	Campagna	di	Roma
	(which	Mayer
Carl	bought	in	1846)	hanging	in	Paris	or	London,	for	example.	In	any	case,
Mayer	Carl	was	a	good	deal	more	interested	in	gold	and	silver	ornaments	than	in
paintings.	Although	his	English	cousins	collected	
objets	d’art
	too—among
Lionel’s	prized	possessions	was	the	so-called	“Lycurgus	cup,”	an	ancient
Alexandrian	or	Byzantine	glass	goblet—they	were	less	systematic.	By	the	1870s
Mayer	Carl	had	accumulated	a	dazzling	“Goldschatz”	of	5,000	items,	among
them	such	treasures	as	Wentzel	Jamnitzer’s	Merkelsche	Tafelaufsatz,	a
masterpiece	of	the	German	Renaissance,	and	an	
ivory	horn	on	silver	gilt	in	the
same	style—in	fact	a	contemporary	forgery	by	Reinhold	Vasters,	but	a	brilliant
one.
Evidently,	the	Rothschilds	were	little	interested	in	the	art	of	their	own	day—
although	the	myth-makers	have	exaggerated	this	indifference.	The	story	that
James	antagonised	two	artists,	Jadin	and	Horace	Vernet,	in	his	efforts	to	secure	a
cut-price	portrait	seems	implausible;	it	cannot	be	right	that	Vernet	took	his
revenge	by	depicting	James	as	a	cowardly	Jew	in	
On	the	way	to	Smala
,	because
the	figure	in	question	bears	no	resemblance	whatever	to	him	or	any	other

--- Page 458 ---
Rothschild.	What	is	true	is	that,	with	very	few	exceptions,	the	only
contemporary	paintings	the	family	owned	were	portraits	they	commissioned
themselves:	for	example,	Alfred	de	Dreux’s	portait	of	Lionel	driving	a	gig
(1838),	Sir	Francis	Grant’s	portrait	of	the	four	brothers	riding	to	hounds	(1841),
Ary	Scheffer’s	portrait	of	James’s	daughter	Charlotte	and	Jean-Auguste-
Dominique	Ingres’	portrait	of	his	wife	Betty	(1848)—not	to	mention	the
numerous	family	pictures	painted	by	Moritz	Daniel	Oppenheim	and	the	portraits
of	James	by	artists	like	Charles-Emile	Champmartin,	Louis-Amié	Grosclaude
and	Hippolyte	Flandrin.
It	would	be	a	mistake	to	explain	all	this	solely	in	terms	of	family	(or
individual)	“taste.”	For	the	“Old	Masters”	were	attractive	to	men	like	James	and
Lionel	for	reasons	other	than	the	strictly	aesthetic.	Quite	apart	from	their	value
as	“status	symbols,”	celebrated	paintings	were	as	much	a	form	of	investment	in
the	nineteenth	century	as	they	are	today.	The	fact	that	James’s	entire	collection
was	insured	for	10	million	francs	(£400,000)	is	indicative	of	the	scale	of	the
investment	undertaken	in	this	period:	in	1844	that	sum	was	equivalent	to	a
quarter	of	James’s	share	in	the	combined	capital	of	the	five	houses.	Moreover,
the	market	was	a	lively	one,	still	feeling	the	ripples	generated	by	the	French
Revolution:	by	uprooting	so	much	of	the	French	aristocracy,	the	Revolution	had
made	numerous	private	collections	available	to	new	buyers,	and	the	practice	of
selling	them	
en	bloc
	at	auction	had	continued	into	the	nineteenth	century.	It	was
another	revolution,	that	of	1830,	which	ultimately	led	to	the	sale	of	the	duchesse
de	Berry’s	collection,	one	of	the	most	important	early	sources	of	Rothschild	art;
1848	saw	the	great	Stowe	auction.	Despite	the	frequency	of	such	sales,	the
demand	for	Old	Masters	often	tended	to	outstrip	supply.	It	speaks	for	itself	that	a
picture	like	Velazquez’s	
Lady	with	Fan
	could	sell	(to	Nat)	for	12,700	francs	in
1843,	more	than	three	times	more	than	the	banker	Aguado	had	paid	for	it	just	six
years	before.
Given	their	immense	wealth,	the	Rothschilds	could	afford	to	outbid	almost
anyone,	and	some	members	of	the	family	seemed	inclined	to	do	so.	As	Mayer
said	while	shopping	for	Italian	sculpture	in	1846,	“one	ought	always	to	buy	the
very	best	of	everything	and	not	to	mind	the	price,”	on	the	ground	that	“the	very
best”	could	only	appreciate	in	value.	But	the	political	upheavals	of	1848-9,	when
the	art	market	slumped	as	steeply	as	the	financial	markets,	called	that	bullish
assumption	into	question.	In	later	life,	James	was	always	content	to	let	a	picture
go	to	another	bidder	if	he	felt	the	price	was	excessive.	In	1860	he	bid	3,000
guineas	for	a	Rubens,	only	to	see	it	go	to	someone	else	for	7,500.	“Fabulous

--- Page 459 ---
prices,”	commented	James;	“I	don’t	have	the	money	to	pay	10,000	guineas	for	a
Murillo”	(especially	when	the	artist’s	
Christ	as	the	Good	Shepherd
	had	cost	just
over	£3,000	twenty	years	before).	Of	course,	he	of	all	people	did	have	the
money;	but,	compulsive	investor	that	he	was,	he	hated	the	idea	of	buying	at	what
might	prove	to	be	the	peak	of	the	market.
Piano	Lessons
Art,	then,	was	an	investment	as	well	as	a	form	of	decoration.	The	Rothschilds’
enthusiasm	for	music	is	perhaps	less	easily	explained.	That	the	Rothschilds
patron	ised	some	of	the	most	famous	composers	and	performers	of	the
nineteenth	century	is	well	known;	and	the	most	obvious	reason	for	this	is	that
musicians	were	a	prerequisite	for	a	successful	soirée	or	a	ball.	In	January	1828,
for	example,	Nathan	was	able	to	treat	his	dinner	guests	to	a	post-prandial
performance	by	Ignaz	Moscheles—Felix	Mendelssohn’s	tutor.	Similarly,	when
the	maréchal	de	Castellane	had	dined	with	James	the	year	before,	the	star
performer	was	Rossini,	to	whom	Salomon	had	been	introduced	by	Metternich	at
the	Congress	of	Verona	five	years	before.	It	is	also	said—though	scholars	debate
the	authenticity	of	the	story—that	Chopin’s	career	in	Paris	was	launched	by	a
performance	he	gave	at	the	rue	Laffitte	in	1832.	He	played	there	again	in	1843
alongside	his	pupil	Karl	Filtsch,	whose	playing	James	was	reported	to	“adore.”
Other	notable	performers	who	played	at	Rothschild	houses	included
Mendelssohn	himself,	Franz	Liszt,	the	pianist	and	conductor	Charles	Hallé	and
the	violinist	Joseph	Joachim.
Even	more	important	than	their	role	as	performers,	however,	was	their	role	as
teachers.	This	was	especially	important	for	female	Rothschilds,	who	were
encouraged	from	an	early	age	to	excel	at	the	keyboard	(the	piano	was	perhaps
the	nearest	thing	the	nineteenth	century	had	to	the	television,	with	the	difference
that	it	required	skill	to	operate).	Not	surprisingly,	Nathan	and	his	brothers	gave
them	the	best	tutors	money	could	buy.	Charlotte’s	
livre	d’or
,	in	which	she	invited
her	teachers	to	jot	musical	mementoes,	records	many	of	their	names:	Moscheles
appears	there,	as	does	Mendelssohn,	Vincenzo	Bellini	(who	inscribed	the	song
“Dolente	immagine	di	Fille	mia,”	which	he	had	composed	in	1821),	Louis	Spohr
(who	contributed	a	version	of	his	song	“Nachgefühl”),	Rossini	(who	added	one
of	his	many	settings	of	“Mi	lagnero	tacendo”	from	Metastio’s	
Siroe
)	and
Giacomo	Meyerbeer	(who	offered	a	song	called	“The	Rare	Flower”).	In	the
1840s	Charlotte’s	contributors	included	the	elderly	Luigi	Cherubini	(who	wrote
in	the	aria	“Canto	d’Armida”	from	his	opera	
Armida	abbandonata
)	and	Chopin
(who	added	a	version	of	the	Mazurka	Op.	67	no.	4).	Rossini	also	wrote	a	six

--- Page 460 ---
page	piano	solo	for	her	as	a	“Petit	Souvenir.”	Charlotte’s	sister	Hannah	Mayer
was	also	an	accomplished	harpist	and	took	lessons	from	Parish	Alvars,	who
dedicated	his	Serenade	Op.	83	to	her;	and	when	the	youngest	sister	Louise
showed	musical	leanings,	Rossini	himself	offered	to	give	her	singing	lessons.	He
was,	she	reported	to	her	father,	“very	good	natured	and	always	comes	at	the	hour
and	day	I	like.”	When	the	two	were	together	in	Frankfurt	three	years	later,	she
had	lessons	with	him	every	day.	Chopin	too	gave	lessons	to	a	number	of
Rothschild	women:	not	only	to	Nathan’s	daughter	Charlotte	but	also	to	her
daughter	Hannah	Mathilde	and	to	Betty’s	daughter,	another	Charlotte.	Indeed,	he
dedicated	two	pieces	to	members	of	the	family:	the	Waltz,	Op.	64,	No.	2	and	the
Ballade,	Op.	52.	With	such	a	source	of	inspiration,	it	is	not	surprising	the	girls
themselves	tried	their	hand	at	composition:	the	younger	Charlotte	published	four
short	piano	pieces	while	Hannah	Mathilde	composed	piano	pieces,	an	orchestral
waltz	and	six	sets	of	songs,	including	settings	of	Victor	Hugo,	Théophile
Gautier,	Goethe	and	Longfellow—the	most	successful	of	which	(“Si	vous	n’avez
rien	à	me	dire”)	was	performed	at	the	Paris	Opéra	by	the	soprano	Adelina	Patti.
The	Rothschilds	not	only	employed	musicians	to	perform	and	teach,	however;
they	also	mixed	with	them	socially	and	enjoyed	their	company.	Meyerbeer	dined
with	Betty	and	James	in	1833,	for	example,	and	Rossini	was	invited	to	Lionel’s
wedding	in	1836	primarily	as	a	friend—“to	add	to	the	gaiety	of	our	party”—
rather	than	as	an	entertainer	or	teacher.	As	he	himself	put	it,	“the	entire	purpose	.
.	.	was	to	attend	at	Frankfurt	the	marriage	of	Lionel	Rotschildt	[
sic
],	my	very
dear	friend.”	James	and	he	remained	friendly	throughout	their	lives.	Similarly,
Chopin	was	said	to	have	“loved	the	house	of	Rothschild	and	that	this	house
loved	him”;	after	his	premature	death	in	1848,	his	pupil	Charlotte	preserved	“a
touching	remembrance	of	him”—a	cushion	she	herself	had	embroidered	for	him.
Such	intimacy	with	musicians	was	somewhat	unconventional.	When	the
Rossinis	dined	with	Nathan	at	a	fairly	aristocratic	gathering	shortly	before	the
wedding,	Lady	Grenville	commented	sniffily	that	it	was	“Madame	Rossini[’s]	.	.
.	first	appearance	in	decent	company	I	believe.”	But	the	composer	and	his	wife
were	there	partly	in	order	to	liven	up	the	proceedings.	Anthony’s	account	of	the
private	recital	he	heard	Liszt	give	in	1842	is	illuminating,	showing	how	the
Rothschilds	derived	pleasure	not	only	from	the	playing	but	also	from	the
company	of	such	stars	of	nineteenth-century	romanticism.	“The	most
extraordinary	player	in	the	world,”	he	reported	to	his	wife,	was
as	curious	to	look	at	as	to	hear,	with	his	long	hair	at	times	streaming	over	his
face,	at	others	completely	thrown	back	by	a	violent	toss	of	the	head,	his	wild

--- Page 461 ---
eyes	which	he	now	and	then	turns	on	every	side	as	if	to	mean	sometimes	“Am	I
not	wonderful?”	at	others	that	he	is	delighted	with	his	own	performance.
Dearest,	he	is	an	agreeable	and	talkative	man	in	society,	and	is	no	doubt	a	dear
and	pleasant	companion.
Musicians	educated	and	entertained—and	not	just	by	their	playing.	In	return,
the	family	were	happy	to	give	their	favourites	a	measure	of	financial	assistance
—usually	in	the	form	of	personal	banking	services.	Johann	Strauss	senior’s	tour
of	England	in	1838	was	partly	financed	by	Lionel;	after	1842	Rossini	banked	at
de	Rothschild	Frères;	Niccolo	Paganini	used	the	Rothschilds	to	relay	a	gift	of
20,000	francs	to	Hector	Berlioz;	and	Adelina	Patti	on	one	occasion	borrowed
more	than	£4,000	from	the	Paris	house	while	on	tour	in	Argentina.	Even	that
most	vociferous	of	musical	anti-Semites,	Richard	Wagner—who	demonised	the
influence	of	“Jewry	in	Music”—may	be	said	to	have	banked	with	the
Rothschilds	as	his	second	wife	Cosima	had	an	account	with	the	Paris	house.	The
beneficiaries	were	more	privileged	than	they	may	have	realised:	the	Rothschilds
generally	offered	such	facilities	only	to	royalty	and	the	political	elite.	It	was	a
sign	of	the	value	they	attached	to	their	relations	with	the	musical	world;	and
perhaps	this	sprang	from	a	certain	sense	of	affinity.	Like	the	self-made
millionaire	revered	for	his	money,	the	musical	star	idolised	for	his	(or	her)
virtuosity	was	a	nineteenth-century	invention.	Both	were	to	some	extent
parvenus	(and	foreigners):	Nathan	as	much	as	the	Rossinis	at	the	dinner
mentioned	above.	Indeed,	many	of	the	nineteenth	century’s	most	gifted
musicians—Meyerbeer	and	Joachim	spring	to	mind—were,	like	the	Rothschilds,
beneficiaries	of	Jewish	emancipation.
	
Men	of	Letters
Musicians	gave	private	lessons	and	performances.	Nineteenth-century	writers,
by	contrast,	wrote	for	a	burgeoning	public	and	were	supposed	to	be	freeing
themselves	
thereby	from	the	traditional	constraints	of	patronage.	Yet	men	of
letters	too	were	recipients	of	Rothschild	favours—and	two	of	the	best-
documented	cases	were	Heinrich	Heine	and	Honoré	de	Balzac,	both	of	whom
became	closely	associated	with	James	in	the	1830s	and	1840s.	(Because	of	its
political	significance,	the	analogous	relationship	between	Lionel	and	Disraeli	is
discussed	separately	in	volume	II.)
On	the	face	of	it,	it	is	amazing	that	the	wealthiest	banker	in	Paris,	the
confidant	of	kings	and	ministers,	should	have	had	anything	to	do	with	either.	In

--- Page 462 ---
political	terms	alone,	they	were	extremists:	Heine	was	exiled	from	Germany	for
his	liberal	views	and	remained	a	lifelong	enthusiast	for	revolutionary	and
nationalist	causes;	Balzac,	by	contrast,	was	by	temperament	a	romantic
conservative	who	considered	seeking	election	as	a	Bourbon	legitimist	in	1831-2,
and	devoted	a	lifetime	to	portraying	the	society	of	the	July	Monarchy	in	a	less
than	flattering	light.	Financially,	they	were	both	feckless,	and	without	question
had	mercenary	motives	for	cultivating	good	relations	with	the	Rothschilds.	And
above	all	they	periodically	depicted	James	in	their	writings	in	ways	which	would
have	sent	a	thinner-skinned	man	rushing	to	his	lawyers.	Yet	James	evidently
liked	both;	and	if	the	relationships	he	formed	with	them	were	not	quite	unalloyed
friendships,	it	seems	that	he	would	have	liked	them	to	be.	Nothing	gives	a	better
insight	into	James’s	complex	personality	than	this.
We	have	already	encountered	some	of	Heine’s	most	penetrating	commentaries
on	the	nature	of	Rothschild	power	before	and	after	the	1830	revolution.	It	is	now
time	to	say	something	about	his	relationship	to	the	family.	The	nephew	of	the
Hamburg	banker	Salomon	Heine,	he	had	been	intended	by	his	mother	for	a
career	in	banking	and	seems	to	have	had	some	sort	of	encounter	with	Nathan
—“a	fat	Jew	in	Lombard	Street,	St.	Swithin’s	Lane”—in	London	in	1827.
Indeed,	Nathan	may	have	been	the	“famous	merchant,	with	whom	I	wished	to	be
an	apprentice	millionaire”	who	told	him	he	“had	no	talent	for	business.”	By
1834,	however,	he	had	struck	up	a	very	different	relationship	with	the	French
Rothschilds.	A	number	of	anecdotes	exist	which	cast	Heine	as	a	kind	of	licensed
jester	at	the	court	of	Baron	James.	When	the	Austrian	playwright	Grillparzer
dined	with	Heine	(and	Rossini)	at	the	Rothschilds’,	he	was	shocked:	“It	was
apparent	that	his	hosts	were	afraid	of	Heine,	and	he	exploited	their	fear	by	slyly
poking	fun	at	them	at	every	opportunity.	But	it	is	not	admissible	to	dine	with
people	whom	you	don’t	care	for.	If	you	despise	a	person	you	should	not	dine
with	him.	In	point	of	fact,	our	acquaintance	did	not	progress	after	this.”
Barbs	of	the	sort	Grillparzer	alluded	to	invariably	cast	James	as	Heine’s	slow
witted	straight-man.	“Dr	Heine,”	he	asks,	“could	you	tell	me	why	this	wine	is
called	‘Lachrymae	Christi’?”	“All	you	have	to	do	is	translate,”	Heine	answers.
“Christ	weeps	when	rich	Jews	can	afford	such	good	wines	while	so	many	poor
folk	go	hungry	and	thirsty.”	“Comment	trouvez-vous	mon	chenil?”	says	James,
welcoming	some	guests	to	his	house.	“Don’t	you	know	that	
chenil
	means	dog-
kennel?”	chips	in	Heine.	“If	you	have	so	low	an	opinion	of	yourself,	at	least
don’t	trumpet	it	abroad!”	Rothschild	contemplates	the	filthy	state	of	the	River
Seine	and	observes	that	its	source	is	perfectly	clear;	Heine	replies:	“Yes,	M.	le

--- Page 463 ---
baron;	and	I	hear	that	your	late	father	was	a	most	honest	man.”	A	third	party
expresses	a	desire	to	meet	James.	“He	only	wants	to	get	to	know	him,”	quips
Heine,	“because	he	doesn’t	know	him.”
Such	anecdotes	seem	superficially	plausible	in	the	light	of	the	more	satirical
passages	about	James	in	Heine’s	journalism.	Yet	the	surviving	correspondence
suggests	a	
rather	different	relationship,	in	which	Heine	increasingly	came	to	play
the	more	or	less	humble	supplicant	to	James’s	indulgent	patron.	As	we	have
seen,	one	of	the	first	references	Heine	made	to	James	was	in	
Ludwig	Börne
,	in
which	he	suggested	that	James’s	development	of	financial	capital	made	him	as
much	of	a	social	“revolutionary”	as	Richelieu	and	Robespierre.	Though	a	fairly
outrageous	parallel,	this	was	far	from	insulting;	if	anything,	it	rather	exaggerated
James’s	influence.	Surprisingly,	Heine	felt	nervous	enough	about	the	liberties	he
had	taken—apparently	quoting	at	length	from	a	private	conversation	with	James
—that	he	took	the	precaution	of	sending	a	copy	of	the	proofs	to	his	wife	Betty.
“You	now	have	in	your	hands	the	
corpus	delicti
	that	gives	me	some	anxiety,”	he
wrote.	“May	I	still	appear	before	you?	.	.	.	Perhaps	you	will	forgive	me	with	a
merry	smile.	For	my	part	I	cannot	reproach	myself	enough	for	having	spoken,
not	with	ill	intent,	but	in	an	unbecoming	manner,	of	a	family	that	conceals	so
much	nobility	of	feeling	and	so	much	good	will.”
A	few	months	before,	he	had	publicly	denied	being	the	author	of	some
malicious	remarks	about	a	ball	given	by	James	which	had	been	attributed	to	him
in	the	columns	of	the	
Quotidienne
.	In	his	
Augsburger	Zeitung
	articles	of	the
early	1840s,	he	repeatedly	went	out	of	his	way	to	praise	James,	comparing	him
favourably	with	other	bankers	like	Benoît	Fould,	for	example,	and	praising	his
philanthropic	work.	The	most	fulsome—if	faintly	facetious—praise	of	all	came
in	the	article	published	in	June	1843	(later	incorporated	in	his	“Lutetia”)	which
likened	James	to	Louis	XIV	for	his	ability	to	identify	talent	in	others:	“In	order
to	make	quite	sure	of	not	causing	offence	I	will	today	compare	M.	de	Rothschild
to	the	sun.	I	can	do	this,	firstly,	because	it	costs	me	nothing;	and	secondly,	I	can
well	justify	it	at	a	time	like	the	present	because	now	everyone	pays	homage	to
M.	de	Rothschild	in	the	hope	of	being	warmed	by	his	golden	rays.”	A	few
months	later	Heine	was	able	to	do	more	than	merely	praise	James	when	his
publisher	Julius	Campe	sent	him	the	manuscript	of	a	highly	critical	history	of	the
Rothschilds—the	radical	republican	Friedrich	Steinmann’s	
The	House	of
Rothschild:	Its	History	and	Transactions
.	Heine	wrote	that	if	the	manuscript
were	to	be	suppressed	it	would	repay	the	service	“which	Rothschild	has	shown
me	for	the	past	12	years,	as	much	as	this	can	honestly	be	done.”

--- Page 464 ---
Many	subsequent	writers	have	assumed	that	the	main	reason	for	Heine’s	kid-
gloved	treatment	of	James	at	this	time	was	financial.	But	there	is	no	record	of
any	financial	assistance	from	James	to	Heine	until	1845,	for	the	reason	that
before	then	Heine	did	not	need	such	help.	That,	in	fact,	is	the	whole	point	of	the
passage	in	“Lutetia”	which	follows	the	comparison	with	Louis	XIV,	in	which
Heine	explicitly	denies	wishing	to	join	the	horde	of	beggars	who	surround
James:
If	I	may	speak	in	confidence,	this	frenzied	veneration	is	no	small	affliction	to	the
poor	sun	which	gets	no	respite	from	its	adorers	.	.	.	I	really	believe	that	money	is
more	a	curse	than	a	blessing	to	him;	if	he	had	a	harder	heart	he	would	endure
less	discomfort	.	.	.	I	counsel	every	man	who	is	in	dire	need	of	money	to	go	to
M.	de	Rothschild;	not	in	order	to	borrow	from	him	(I	doubt	whether	he	would
have	much	success	in	that	endeavour!)	but	to	comfort	himself	with	the	sight	of
the	misery	money	can	cause.
James,	argues	Heine,	is	tortured	“because	he	has	too	much	money,	because	all
the	money	in	the	world	has	flowed	into	his	gigantic	cosmopolitan	pocket	and
because	
he	has	to	carry	such	a	burden	around	with	him	while	all	around	the	great
rabble	of	starvelings	and	thieves	stretch	out	their	hands	to	him.	And	what
terrible,	what	dangerous	hands	they	are!”	And	Heine	then	tells	a	very	different
kind	of	joke,	in	which	he	is	the	straight-man	and	James	the	wit:	“	‘How	are	you?’
a	German	poet	once	asked	M.	le	baron.	‘I	am	going	mad,’	the	latter	replied.	‘I
won’t	believe	that,’	said	the	poet,	‘until	you	start	throwing	money	out	of	the
window.’	The	baron	interrupted	him	with	a	sigh.	‘That,	precisely,	is	my	madness:
that	I	don’t	throw	money	out	of	the	window	occasionally.’	”
When	Heine	came	to	rework	the	original	newspaper	articles	into	“Lutetia”	ten
years	later,	however,	he	was	able	to	add	(in	his	“Retrospective	Explanation”)	a
kind	of	postscript	to	this	joke.	Then	he	had	been	well	off;	but	that	was	no	longer
the	case.
The	indigent	men	whom	I	had	liberally	aided	laughed	at	me	when	I	said	that	in
future	I	would	not	have	enough	for	my	own	needs.	Was	I	not	related	to	all	sorts
of	millionaires?	Had	not	[Rothschild],	the	generalis	simo	of	all	millionaires,	the
millionairissimo,	called	me	his	friend?	What	I	could	never	make	my	clients
understand	was	that	this	great	millionairissimo	called	me	his	friend	only	because
I	never	asked	him	for	money.	Had	I	done	so,	our	friendship	would	soon	have
been	at	an	end.	The	days	of	David	and	Jonathan,	of	Orestes	and	Pylades	are	past.
The	poor	blockheads	who	wanted	my	help	thought	it	was	easy	to	obtain	this

--- Page 465 ---
commodity	from	the	rich.	They	never	saw,	as	I	did,	the	terrible	locks	and	bars
with	which	their	great	money	chests	are	secured.
To	appreciate	the	significance	of	this,	it	is	necessary	to	know	a	little	of	Heine’s
financial	circumstances.	Before	his	uncle	Salomon	Heine’s	death	in	December
1844,	Heine	had	received	an	annual	allowance	from	his	rich	relative	of	4,000
marks.	Salomon	Heine’s	will	left	Heine	a	lump	sum	of	8,000	marks,	but	his
allowance	was	promptly	halved	by	his	cousin	Carl,	plunging	the	Heine	family
into	a	protracted	and	bitter	wrangle	which	was	not	resolved	until	1847.	It	was	at
this	point	that	Heine	for	the	first	time	began	to	need	the	Rothschilds	for	their
money	as	well	as	their	friendship.	To	begin	with,	he	merely	sought	investment
advice,	but	as	his	health	deteriorated	this	gradually	acquired	a	charitable
dimension.	In	1846	James	involved	Heine	in	a	speculation	in	railway	shares
which	earned	him	20,000	francs.	The	following	year	he	offered	to	give	his
“friend”	“the	most	preferential	treatment”	in	the	new	French	government	loan.
By	1852,	however,	Heine’s	tone	was	detectably	that	of	the	
Schnorrer
:
Whenever	fortune	smiled	on	your	colossal	business	operations	with	particular
favour,	you	allowed	not	only	the	closest	friends	of	your	house,	but	also	that	great
child	the	poet	to	have	a	bite	at	the	cherry.	At	this	moment,	when	you	are	again
taking	the	leading	part	in	a	tremendous	enterprise	and	are	emerging	victorious
and	more	of	a	millionaire	than	ever	from	the	revolutionary	storms,	I	take	the
liberty	of	reminding	you	that	I	have	not	yet	died,	although	my	condition	hardly
deserves	to	be	called	“life.”
When	the	request	was	granted,	Heine	was	pathetically	grateful	for	“this	latest
proof	of	your	goodness	.	.	.	The	blessing	of	God	is	clearly	upon	you,	and	any
contact	with	you	brings	good	luck.”	Three	years	later	he	made	a	similar	request
to	
Anselm	for	shares	in	the	new	Austrian	Creditanstalt;	this	too	was	granted,	to
the	tune	of	100	shares.	Heine’s	letters	of	thanks—alternately	sycophantic	and
embarrassed—indicate	how	hard	he	found	it	to	be	reduced	to	begging.	Less	than
two	months	later	he	was	dead.
In	all	this,	an	important	role	was	played	by	James’s	wife	Betty,	with	whom
Heine	had	conducted	what	might	be	described	as	an	elegant	flirtation	in	the
1830s.	They	had	met	at	James’s	Boulogne	château:	looking	back	many	years
later,	Heine	recalled	in	a	letter	to	Betty	“the	sunny	day	in	Boulogne	where	you
first	appeared	to	me	with	all	your	magical	charm.”	The	meeting	must	have	taken
place	some	time	before	1834,	when	he	sent	her	a	copy	of	his	new	book	
Der
Salon
,	signing	himself	as	“Ihr	ergebener	Schützling”—“your	faithful	protégé.”	A

--- Page 466 ---
year	later,	he	described	her	to	a	friend	as	his	“earliest	patroness	in	Paris.”	When
he	wrote	promising	to	visit	her,	he	could	not	resist	adding	that	her	“pretty,
smiling	face”	was	“constantly	in	his	memory.”	Nor	did	he	confine	such
expressions	to	private	communications,	praising	her	in	one	of	his	articles	of	the
1830s	as	“not	only	one	of	the	best	looking	women	in	Paris	but	[one]	who	is	also
distinguished	in	intellect	and	knowledge.”	Nothing	is	more	futile	than	for	the
historian	to	try	to	infer	the	intensity	of	such	an	attraction,	much	less	the	real
nature	of	such	a	relationship,	from	a	few	written	remnants;	but	these	seem	more
than	merely	formal	compliments	to	the	wife	of	a	patron.	“I	discovered	the	other
day	by	chance,”	he	wrote	to	her	in	1840,	enclosing	the	proofs	of	
Ludwig	Börne
,
“that	the	beautiful	lady	whom	I	took	to	be	only	intelligent	and	virtuous	also
possesses	a	great	soul.	Baron	James	is	indeed	the	richest	of	men—but	not
because	of	his	money	.	.	.	Please	believe,	Mme	la	baronne,	that	the	interest	I	take
in	your	house	is	of	no	common	sort;	and	accept	my	assurance	of	complete
devotion	for	the	rest	of	my	days.”	Yet	at	some	point	in	the	1840s	the	friendship
began	to	fade.	He	continued	to	send	her	his	books:	in	1847	copies	of	
Atta	Troll
and	a	poem	called	“The	Angel”	which	may	have	been	inspired	by	her;	in	1852	a
copy	of	
Romancero;
	
two	years	later	the	
Vermischte	Schriften
	and	in	1855	his
Poèmes	et	légendes
.	But	they	saw	little	of	one	another—she	became,	as	he	put	it,
“a	doubting	Thomas”	towards	him—perhaps	because	of	Heine’s	deteriorating
health;	perhaps	because	he	disapproved	of	the	Rothschilds’	role	in	the	1848
revolutions;
4
	most	probably	because,	as	Heine	had	foreseen,	his	need	for	money
corrupted	the	relationship.
The	contrast	between	Heine’s	relationship	with	the	Rothschilds	and	that	of	his
French	contemporary	Balzac	is	pronounced;	indeed,	they	are	like	mirror	images
of	each	another.	While	Heine	fretted	that	James	might	take	umbrage	at	his
writings,	Balzac	blithely	caricatured	him	with	only	the	most	perfunctory
disclaimers.	While	Heine	decorously	flirted	with	James’s	wife,	Balzac	sought	to
palm	off	one	of	his	old	mistresses	on	him.	And	while	Heine	agonised	about
accepting	share	options	from	the	Rothschilds,	Balzac	happily	borrowed	from
James	and	sought	to	avoid	repaying	him	for	as	long	as	possible.	In	a	famous
aside,	Balzac	described	encountering	Heine	and	James	in	the	street	one	day	in
1837:	“C’est-à-dire	tout	l’esprit	et	tout	l’argent	des	Juifs.”	It	was	the	latter	which
interested	him	more,	though	with	characteristic	egocentricity	he	persistently
misspelt	James’s	name,	usually	as	“Rostchild.”
The	two	first	met	at	Aix	in	the	summer	of	1832.	James	at	once	took	to	the
mercurial	writer,	who	combined	the	carnal	appetites	of	Byron	with	the	prose

--- Page 467 ---
output	of	Dickens.	He	immediately	offered	to	assist	him	with	his	plan	to	visit
Italy,	offering	a	letter	of	introduction	to	Carl	and	the	use	of	his	couriers	to
Naples.	A	few	months	
later,	having	heard	nothing	more,	James	wrote	to	remind
Balzac	of	his	offer	and	to	invite	him	to	dinner,	chiding	him	affably	for	not
calling	on	them	since	his	return	to	Paris.	In	Vienna	two	years	later,	Balzac	took
advantage	of	this	goodwill	by	borrowing	500	francs	from	Salomon	against	a	bill
drawn	on	his	unsuspecting	publisher	in	Paris.	He	also	seems	to	have	asked	Betty
that	same	November	for	some	kind	of	guarantee	during	negotiations	with
another	publisher.
Relations	were	at	their	most	cordial	in	the	mid-1840s.	In	1842	Balzac	offered
James	tickets	for	his	disastrous	play	
Les	Ressources	de	Quinola
	(appropriately
enough,	about	the	sinking	of	a	steamship),	and	two	years	later	dedicated	
Un
Homme	d’affaires
	to	“Monsieur	le	Baron	James	de	Rothschild	/	Conseil	Général
d’Autriche	à	Paris,	Banquier.”
5
	In	return,	James	forwarded	his	letters	to	the
Polish	Countess	he	was	wooing	and	eased	her	passage	through	customs	when
she	went	to	Naples.	More	importantly,	he	provided	Balzac	with	150	shares	in	the
new	Northern	railway	line	in	1846;	having	paid	the	first	instalment,	the	writer
promptly	borrowed	17,000	francs	from	James,	offering	the	shares	as	security.	He
also	borrowed	a	further	sum—around	50,000	francs—by	mortgaging	his
fiancée’s	Polish	estate	in	order	to	buy	a	large	house	in	the	rue	Fortunée.	As	he
prepared	to	leave	for	Poland	in	1846,	Balzac	even	asked	James	to	help	him
establish	his	former	housekeeper	(and	mistress)	in	a	stamp	shop,	for	which	a
licence	was	required.	Balzac’s	account	of	the	negotiations	is	worth	quoting	for
the	light	it	sheds	on	James’s	capacity	for	Rabelaisian	banter:
Rotschild	.	.	.	asked	me	whether	
she
	was	pretty,	whether	I	had	had	her.	“A
hundred	and	twenty-one	times,”	I	told	him,	“and,	if	you	want	her,	I’ll	give	you
her.”
“Does	she	have	children?”	he	inquired.
“No,	but	give	her	some.”
“I’m	sorry,	but	I	protect	only	women	with	children.”	This	was	his	way	of
escaping.	Had	she	had	children	he	would	have	said	he	never	protected
immorality.
“Well	now,	do	you	actually	believe,	Baron,	that	you	can	split	hairs	with	me?
I’m	a	Northern	shareholder!	I	am	going	to	write	you	out	a	note,	and	you’ll	take
care	of	my	business	as	if	it	were	a	railway	with	400,000	shares.”
“How’s	that?”	he	said.	“If	you	can	make	me	do	it,	I’ll	admire	you	all	the

--- Page 468 ---
more.”
“And	you	shall	do	it,”	I	told	him,	“otherwise,	I’ll	turn	your	wife	loose	on	you
so	she	can	keep	an	eye	on	you.”
He	burst	out	laughing	and	fell	back	into	his	armchair	saying:	“I	give	in	out	of
sheer	exhaustion;	business	is	killing	me.	Make	out	your	note.”
I	made	it	out	and	went	to	see	Madame	James.
Presumably	Balzac	considered	the	complete	edition	of	his	works	which	he	sent
to	Betty	that	same	year	repayment	enough	for	all	these	favours.
But	the	years	after	1847	were	not,	as	we	shall	see,	a	time	when	James	could
afford	to	be	indulgent	towards	his	debtors,	no	matter	how	trifling	the	sums
involved,	and	no	matter	how	amusing	the	debtor.	In	October	1848	Balzac—now
ensconced	in	Wierzchownia—was	appalled	to	hear	from	his	mother	that
Rothschilds	had	refused	to	accept	a	draft	for	2,500	francs	drawn	by	one	of	his
other	bankers.	Concluding	
that	James	now	intended	to	call	in	the	17,000	francs
he	owed	him,	and	fearing	that	he	would	accordingly	deduct	the	money	from	any
new	remittances	Balzac	received,	the	author	attempted	a	crude	fraud:	instead	of
having	money	paid	to	himself,	he	arranged	for	a	payment	of	31,000	francs	to	be
made	to	his	mother	in	her	maiden	name.	The	ruse	evidently	failed,	and	by
February	1849	Balzac	was	frantically	trying	to	meet	the	next	payment	due	on	the
Northern	shares	by	means	of	another	banker’s	draft.	“You	have	no	idea,”	he
wrote	irascibly	to	his	mother	that	March,	“how	much	that	debt	of	17,000	francs
to	R[othschild]	restricts	me	and	restricts	all	my	movements.”	Not	that	Balzac
took	the	matter	personally:	veteran	spendthrift	that	he	was,	he	could	always	see
the	creditor’s	point	of	view.	“The	House	of	Rothschild,”	he	acknowledged,	“like
beavers	after	a	thunderstorm,	has	to	occupy	itself	with	repairing	the	disasters
which	1848	has	wrought	in	all	its	finances.”	By	the	time	he	returned	to	Paris	in
the	summer	of	1850,	normal	service	had	been	resumed:	on	June	11,	just	two
months	before	his	death	from	a	bewildering	concatenation	of	ailments,	Balzac
was	arranging	with	Rothschilds	to	invest	in	a	hundred	Banque	de	France	shares.
Behind	his	coffin,	along	with	Victor	Hugo,	Alexandre	Dumas	and	a	throng	of
Parisian	hacks	and	literati,	as	if	sprung	from	
La	Comédie	humaine
	itself,	walked
James.	The	Rothschilds	did	Balzac	one	final	favour	thirty-two	years	later,	when
they	bought	the	house	in	the	rue	Fortunée	from	his	widow	for	ten	times	the
original	purchase	price.
Literal-minded	modern	scholars	tend	to	dispute	the	notion	that	James	was	the
model	for	Balzac’s	fictional	banker	Nucingen.	They	point	to	obvious
dissimilarities:	Nucingen	is	said	to	be	from	Alsace,	he	is	the	son	of	a	convert

--- Page 469 ---
from	Judaism,	he	has	no	brothers,	he	is	too	old	(at	sixty	in	1829)	to	be	James,
has	only	one	daughter	and	so	on.	Yet	Balzac	himself	told	his	future	wife	in	1844
that	James—“the	high	Baron	of	financial	feudalism”—was	“Nucingen	to	the	last
detail,	and	worse.”	And	a	careful	reading	of	the	relevant	parts	of	Balzac’s	great
work	shows	how	much	of	Nucingen	was	inspired	by	James.	None	of	the	other
financiers	of	the	day	is	more	plausible	as	a	model;	fictionalised	he	may	be,	but
Nucingen	
is
	James,	to	the	extent	that	Balzac	could	never	have	created	the	former
had	he	never	known	the	latter.
Nucingen	is	first	introduced	in	
Le	Père	Goriot
	(1834-5)	as	the	husband	of	one
of	the	two	self-centred	daughters	of	the	impoverished	
vermicellier
	Goriot.	He	is
a	“banker	of	German	origin	who	had	been	made	a	baron	of	the	Holy	[Roman]
Empire,”	speaks	with	a	thick,	phonetically-spelt	German	accent	(for	example,
“quelque	chose”	becomes	“keke	chausse”)	and	lives	in	the	rue	Saint-Lazare,	“in
one	of	those	light	houses,	with	thin	columns	[and]	mean	porches	which	are
considered	
pretty
	in	Paris,	a	true	banker’s	house,	full	of	expensive	elegance,
ornaments	[and]	stair	landings	in	marble	mosaic.”	In	this	early	incarnation—as
also	in	his	second	appearance	in	the	
Histoire	de	la	Grandeur	et	de	la	Décadence
de	César	Birotteau
	
(1833-7)—Nucingen	is	portrayed	as	coarse	and	ruthless.
When	the	bankrupt	parfumier	Birotteau	finally	secures	an	audience	with	him—
again	the	“superb	staircase”	and	“sumptuous	apartments”	are	described—he	is
subjected	to	a	baffling	interview	and	referred	back	to	another	banker,	du	Tillet,
who	is	in	reality	the	architect	of	his	destruction.	Again,	Balzac	makes	much	of
Nucingen’s	atrocious	pronunciation	of	French:	“The	shrewd	baron,	in	order	to	be
able	to	renege	on	promises	given	well	but	badly	kept,	had	retained	the	horrible
pronunciation	of	German	Jews	who	flatter	themselves	that	they	can	speak
French.”
This	suggestion	of	fraudulent	practice	is	developed	at	great	length	in	
La
Maison	Nucingen
	(1837-8),	in	which	Nucingen’s	origins	and	methods	are
discussed.	The	key	to	Nucingen’s	success,	Balzac	suggests,	is	a	succession	of
bogus	suspensions	of	payment,	whereby	he	has	forced	his	creditors	to	accept
depreciated	paper	in	payment.	Having	done	this	in	1804	and	again	in	1815,	he	is
poised	to	unfold	his	third	and	most	ambitious	scheme,	a	swindle	perpetrated	at
the	expense	of	(among	others)	a	young	nobleman	and	the	widow	and	daughters
of	the	Alsatian	banker	from	whom	he	had	made	his	first	fortune.	Naturally,	given
the	imputation	of	criminality,	Balzac	is	careful	to	ensure	that	his	character	is
formally	distinguishable	from	Rothschild:	thus	Nucingen	is	described	as	“the	son
of	some	Jew	who	converted	[to	Christianity]	out	of	ambition,”	and	is	said

--- Page 470 ---
“secretly	to	envy	the	Rothschild	brothers.”	But	the	resemblances	are	hard	to
miss.	His	second	great	coup	involves	a	massive	purchase	of	funds	before	the
battle	of	Waterloo,	for	example.	There	is	a	description	of	Nucingen’s	appearance
which	also	has	a	familiar	ring:	“Cubic,	fat,	he	is	as	heavy	as	a	sack,	as	immobile
as	a	diplomat.	Nucingen	has	the	heavy	hand	and	a	lynx	look	that	never	lights	up;
his	depth	is	not	apparent	but	concealed;	he	is	impenetrable,	and	you	never	see
him	coming.”	The	sheer	extent	of	Nucingen’s	financial	influence	is	also
suggestive:	“His	genius	embraces	everything.	This	elephant	of	finance	sells
deputies	to	the	ministers	and	the	Greeks	to	the	Turks.	For	him	commerce	is	.	.	.
the	totality	of	varieties,	the	unity	of	specialities.”	At	one	point	Nucingen	is	even
compared,	as	Nathan	had	been	in	his	lifetime,	with	Napoleon.	And,	perhaps	most
tellingly,	he	is	said	to	have	been	“created	a	peer	by	the	July	Revolution,	and	a
grand	officer	of	the	Legion	of	Honour”—the	latter	of	which	honours,	as	we	have
seen,	James	did	in	fact	receive	from	Louis	Philippe.
La	Maison	Nucingen
	is	not,	of	course,	intended	to	be	a	realistic	portrait	of
James	de	Rothschild.	The	book	is	primarily	a	satire	on	the	volatile	financial
markets	of	the	1830s,	which	the	character	of	Nucingen	personifies	
ad	absurdum
.
Its	underlying	“moral”	is	that	“the	debtor	is	stronger	than	the	creditor,”	and	its
most	memorable	passage	summarising	“the	true	principles	of	the	age	of	gold	in
which	we	live”	makes	it	easy	to	see	why	the	political	left	sought	to	claim	Balzac
as	one	of	their	own	after	his	death:	“There	are	arbitrary	acts	which	are	criminal
when	committed	by	an	individual	against	another	individual,	which	are
expunged	when	they	are	extended	to	a	multitude,	just	as	a	drop	of	prussic	acid
becomes	innocent	in	a	bucket	of	water.”
Yet	this	was	far	from	Balzac’s	last	word	on	Nucingen.	In	
Splendeurs	et
Misères	des	Courtisanes
	(1838-47),	he	is	cast	in	a	wholly	different	light,	as	the
world-weary	
vieil	lard
	who	falls	in	love	with	a	prostitute	he	has	glimpsed	in	the
bois	de	Vincennes.	In	fact,	she	is	the	lover	of	the	amoral,	ambitious	Lucien
Chardon,	who	is	himself	in	thrall	to	the	Mephistophelean	master-criminal
Vautrin,	and	the	three	aim	to	extort	a	million	francs	from	the	lovesick	Nucingen.
Once	again	Balzac	takes	the	opportunity	to	develop	his	romantic	critique	of
capitalism:	“All	rapidly	accumulated	wealth	is	either	the	result	of	luck	or
discovery,	or	the	result	of	a	legalised	theft	.	.	.	The	1814	constitution	proclaimed
the	reign	of	money,	and	success	became	the	supreme	rationale	of	an	atheistical
epoch.”	Once	again,	however,	it	is	remarkable	how	many	Rothschild	allusions
crop	up.	Nucingen	is	described	here	as	“this	Louis	XIV	of	the	counting	house.”
Indeed,	Balzac	describes	Nucingen’s	role	as	a	patron	in	terms	which	are	almost

--- Page 471 ---
identical	to	those	used	by	Heine	in	“Lutetia”	(so	much	so	that	plagiarism	seems
possible):
M.	de	Nucingen,	a	pure	banker,	without	any	inventiveness	beyond	his
calculations	.	.	.	only	believed	in	certain	values.	As	regards	art,	he	had	the	good
sense	to	turn,	gold	in	hand,	to	the	experts	in	such	things,	taking	the	best
architect,	the	best	surgeon,	the	most	eminent	connoisseur	of	paintings	and
statues,	the	most	skilful	lawyer,	as	soon	as	it	was	a	matter	of	building	a	house,
checking	his	health,	acquiring	some	artefacts	or	a	property.
It	is	also	worth	noting	how	much	more	sympathetically	Nucingen	is	portrayed
here,	suggesting	the	influence	of	the	growing	friendship	between	Balzac	and
James.	Nucingen	knows	he	is	making	a	fool	of	himself:	“Hêdre	hâmûreusse	à
mon	hâche,	cheu	zai	piène	que	rienne	n’ai	blis	ritiquille;	mai	ké	foullez-vû?	za	y
êde!”	(“Etre	amoureux	à	mon	âge,	je	sais	bien	que	rien	n’est	plus	ridicule;	mais
que	voulez-vous?	ça	y	est!”)	And	he	manages	to	recover	some	dignity	when	she
spurns	his	advances,	writing	her	an	elegant	and	sensitive	letter—in	perfect
French.
By	contrast,	Nucingen’s	final	appearances	in	
Un	Homme	d’affaires
	(1845)	and
La	Cousine	Bette
	(1846)	are	brief:	here	he	is	merely	the	last	resort	of	desperate
borrowers	like	Maxime	de	Trailles,	the	Balzac-like	wastrel	Desroches	and	Baron
Hulot,	the	poor	Bonapartist	functionary	in	need	of	a	dowry	for	his	daughter.	By
this	time,	the	exigencies	of	his	own	financial	position	were	plainly	uppermost	in
the	writer’s	mind:	the	dedication	of	a	book	about	disreputable	creditors	to	James
on	the	eve	of	Balzac’s	own	request	for	financial	assistance	is	thus	revealed	as	a
characteristic	joke.	Even	the	sum	of	money	which	Hulot	tries	to	borrow	from
Nucingen	is	similar	to	the	amount	Balzac	borrowed	from	James	in	the	same	year
La	Cousine	Bette
	was	published.	Historians	are	usually	nervous	of	using
literature	as	evidence;	but	when	art	so	closely	imitates	life,	and	in	doing	so	sheds
so	much	light	on	the	otherwise	obscure	private	life	of	a	man	like	James	de
Rothschild,	it	would	be	a	pity	to	ignore	it.

--- Page 472 ---
THIRTEEN
Quicksilver	and	Hickory	(1834-1839)
I	simply	can’t	see	why,	when	we	ask	you	for	the	time	being	not	to	do	something	or
other,	then,	without	any	particular	reason,	the	very	same	thing	happens,	because
everyone	must	know	what	is	best	for	the	place	where	he	resides.
—JAMES	TO	HIS	ENGLISH	NEPHEWS,	OCTOBER	1836
	
	
	
	
The	Rothschild	system	of	issuing	and	trading	bonds	for	the	European	powers
was	immensely	lucrative	as	well	as	giving	the	family	real	political	leverage.	Yet
it	had	its	limits.	When	the	Rothschilds	attempted	to	extend	their	geographical
reach	to	new	regions	in	the	course	of	the	1830s,	they	encountered	difficulties.
With	the	benefit	of	hindsight,	the	historian	can	see	that	one	of	the	greatest
omissions	of	the	period	was	the	failure	to	establish	a	stable	and	reliable
Rothschild	base	in	the	United	States	of	America.	However,	to	see	why	this	did
not	happen	it	is	necessary	to	unravel	a	complex	story	of	trial	and	error	which	had
its	roots	in	the	highly	unstable	finances	of	Spain	and	Portugal;	for	the	route
which	led	the	Rothschilds	to	the	Americas	started	here.
	
Iberian	Dilemmas
While	the	rest	of	Europe	had	revolutions,	it	might	be	said,	Iberia	had	dynastic
civil	wars.	Superficially,	there	were	ideological	divisions,	as	elsewhere,	between
ultra-conservative	clericals,	moderate	constitutional	liberals	and	more	radical
democrats.	Fundamentally,	however,	the	politics	of	Spain	and	Portugal	in	the
1830s	and	the	1840s	had	more	in	common	with	the	politics	of	the	Wars	of	the
Roses.	From	a	banker’s	point	of	view,	there	is	nothing	
a	priori
	wrong	with	civil

--- Page 473 ---
war	in	a	foreign	country.	Like	any	other	kind	of	war,	civil	wars	require	money
and	with	domestic	tax	systems	in	disarray	that	money	usually	has	to	be
borrowed.	Though	they	were	more	cautious	than	other	bankers,	the	Rothschilds
proved	ready	and	willing	to	lend	to	whichever	side	they	thought	would	win	in
both	Portugal	and	Spain.	Their	principal	concern	in	the	first	phase	of	this
involvement	was	that	other	powers	might	become	
embroiled	in	the	conflicts,
leading	to	the	general	European	war	which	was	the	Rothschilds’	recurrent
nightmare.	As	it	turned	out,	no	such	escalation	occurred,	though	Britain,	France
and	Austria	all	sought	to	interfere	indirectly	in	the	affairs	of	the	Peninsula.	The
real	difficulty	was	that,	in	the	absence	of	decisive	foreign	intervention,	the
Iberian	civil	wars	dragged	on	inconclusively.	This	meant	that	by	the	late	1830s
the	interest	was	no	longer	being	paid	on	loans	raised	just	a	few	years	before.	As
a	result,	Spanish	and	Portuguese	bonds	performed	the	same	role	in	the	bond
market	of	the	1830s	as	had	been	played	by	Latin	American	bonds	in	the	1820s:
as	James	put	it	succinctly	(and	repeatedly),	they	were	little	better	than	“shit.”
This	resemblance	was	not	coincidental.	For	earlier	events	in	Latin	America
were	not	only	responsible	for	sending	inveterate	troublemakers	like	Dom	Pedro
back	to	Europe;	they	also	fundamentally	weakened	the	fiscal	systems	of	both
Portugal	and	Spain,	which	had	come	to	rely	heavily	on	the	revenues	from	their
transatlantic	empires.	Portugal	and	Spain	were	thus	not	merely	politically
unstable;	in	many	ways	that	was	also	true	of	France,	where	a	similar	kind	of
dynastic	feud	had	seemed	a	possibility	after	1830.	The	Iberian	problem	was	one
of	chronic	national	insolvency.	Trying	to	make	money	from	two	countries	which
recurrently	teetered	on	the	verge	of	bankruptcy	proved	much	less	easy	than	the
more	sanguine	Rothschilds	initially	assumed.
The	Portuguese	story	is	the	less	complex	of	the	two;	it	also	proved	to	be	the
less	lucrative.	We	have	already	seen	that	Nathan	had	interested	himself	in	the
affairs	of	Portugal	and	her	sister-kingdom	Brazil	in	the	1820s,	arranging	loans
for	both,	secure	in	the	knowledge	that	this	was	a	traditional	British	sphere	of
interest.	In	doing	so,	he	had	unwittingly	been	lending	to	both	the	combatants	in
the	impending	civil	war:	Dom	Miguel,	whose	coup	he	had	backed	in	1828,	and
his	brother	Dom	Pedro,	the	Emperor	of	Brazil	and	father	of	Maria	II,	the	Queen
of	Portugal	whom	Miguel	had	overthrown.	In	April	1831	Pedro	was	forced	to
abdicate	in	Brazil	in	favour	of	his	son;	he	at	once	set	off	for	France,	intent	on
restoring	his	daughter	to	power	in	Portugal.	For	no	very	good	reason,	French
liberals	(and	some	British	Whigs)	tended	to	assume	that	Pedro	was	a	kindred
spirit,	casting	Miguel	as	a	kind	of	Portuguese	Charles	X.	Pedro	therefore	had

--- Page 474 ---
little	difficulty	in	raising	money	in	Paris	and	men	in	London,	and	by	July	1832
was	able	to	seize	control	of	Oporto.	However,	in	the	absence	of	popular	support
it	took	him	until	May	1834	finally	to	secure	Miguel’s	surrender—a	victory
which	he	mainly	owed	to	the	assistance	he	received	from	the	English	sea	captain
Charles	Napier.	Four	months	later	Pedro	himself	expired,	having	lived	just	long
enough	to	restore	his	daughter	to	power.
Yet	that	did	not	bring	Portugal’s	political	troubles	to	an	end.	Finding	Maria	a
suitable	husband	proved	harder	than	expected	when	her	first	consort,	the	Duke
of	Leuchtenberg,	died	after	just	four	months	of	marriage,	and	a	replacement—
Ferdinand	of	Saxe-Coburg,	nephew	of	the	Belgian	King—was	not	found	until
1836.	More	seriously,	Maria’s	supporters	quickly	split	into	two	rival	factions:
moderate	“Chartists”	(loyal	to	the	constitution	of	1826)	and	more	radical
“Septembrists”	(who	looked	further	back	to	the	more	liberal	1822	version).
Shortly	after	Maria’s	marriage	to	Ferdinand,	the	latter	faction	forcibly	seized
power.	The	Chartists	attempted	to	do	the	same	in	1837	and	succeeded	five	years
later.	In	1846	there	was	yet	another	revolution,	which	precipitated	joint	Anglo-
Spanish	intervention	the	following	year.
The	Rothschilds	watched	the	unfolding	of	the	Portuguese	civil	war	with
mixed	feelings,	loath	to	miss	out	on	any	lucrative	new	business,	but	worried	that
the	conflict	might	escalate.	By	1832	James	had	begun	tentatively	to	participate
in	the	operations	of	the	Spanish	financier	Juan	Alvarez	Mendizábal,	who	had
issued	a	£2	million	loan	for	Pedro	in	Paris	the	year	before.	This	was	a	gamble,
for	although	there	was	indirect	British	and	French	support	for	Pedro,	Austrian-
backed	support	for	Miguel	could	not	be	ruled	out.	Moreover,	Miguel	was	able	to
raise	a	40	million	franc	loan	in	Paris	that	same	year.	This	explains	why	James
was	so	pessimistic	about	the	“Portuguese	rubbish”	from	the	outset.	His	view	was
that	only	a	guarantee	from	Britain	and	France	would	make	a	Portuguese	loan
into	“a	nice	piece	of	business”;	but	this	Palmerston	(wisely)	refused	to	give.	It	is
therefore	not	unreasonable	to	conclude	that,	when	he	and	Nathan	issued	a	£4
million	loan	for	the	restored	government	of	Maria	II	in	1835,	they	were
consciously	dealing	in	what	might	today	be	called	“junk	bonds.”	For,	even	with
Pedro	dead	and	Miguel	exiled,	the	likelihood	of	Portugal	maintaining	interest
payments	on	these	bonds	was	low.	Thus	James	regarded	those	to	whom	he	sold
the	bonds	as,	to	put	it	mildly,	naive.	“We	have	a	great	many	asses	who	have	been
buying	this	shit,”	he	candidly	reported	to	Nathan	in	early	April.	The	3	per	cent
bonds—which	the	Rothschilds	issued	at	67.5—enjoyed	a	temporary	vogue,	but
within	a	matter	of	months	were	sliding	rapidly	as	political	instability	persisted	in

--- Page 475 ---
Lisbon.	Within	a	year	they	had	fallen	to	55;	and	by	1839	they	stood	at	just	25.
James	later	explained	the	rationale	of	the	Rothschild	involvement:	such	bonds
were	“the	only	thing	on	which	one	can	gamble	and	speculate,	for	what	is	there	to
gain	from	the	French	rentes?	Nothing.	So	the	world	is	now	speculating	on	this
shit.	One	can	gamble	with	these	but	one	can	never	hold	on	to	them.”	In	other
words,	these	high-yielding	bonds	were	never	seriously	regarded	as	assets	for
long-term	investors.	They	were	mere	speculative	objects.
The	trouble	with	selling	“rubbish”	is	that	some	naive	investors—or	unlucky
speculators—will	inevitably	be	left	holding	it	when	the	interest	ceases	to	be
paid;	and	they	are	unlikely	to	think	very	highly	of	the	original	vendor.	For	the
sake	of	their	own	reputation,	and	therefore	their	ability	successfully	to	float
future	bond	issues,	it	was	in	the	Rothschilds’	interest	to	avoid	a	Portuguese
default.	As	early	as	March	1835	James	was	nervously	suggesting	that	the
Rothschilds	“should	send	someone	over	there	[to	Lisbon]	two	months	before	the
interest	falls	due	so	as	to	assist	the	Government.	We	are	too	deeply	involved	in
this	matter	not	to	try	to	render	any	assistance	we	can	to	these	people.”	By	May	it
was	obvious	that	even	with	a	change	of	Finance	Minister	there	was	not	going	to
be	enough	cash	to	pay	the	interest	due	that	year.	“I	think	that	we	will	have	to	pay
the	interest,”	he	concluded	gloomily.	The	disadvantage	of	this,	however,	was	that
bondholders	would	“get	accustomed	to	the	idea	that	you	will	[always]	have	to
extend	your	helping	hand,	and	in	the	end	you	will	be	unable	to	retreat.”
As	it	turned	out,	however,	Nathan’s	plan	for	a	further	£1	million	advance	was
rejected	in	favour	of	a	more	generous	offer	by	Goldschmidt,	prompting	a	wave
of	retaliatory	selling	by	the	Rothschild	houses	in	London	and	Paris.	“There	is	no
occasion	for	our	supporting	the	market	now	that	others	have	interfered	in	the
Portuguese	affairs,”	wrote	Lionel	angrily	from	his	dying	father’s	bedside	in
Frankfurt.	“We	can	job	in	and	out	and	only	study	our	own	advantage.”	James
was	beside	himself	at	the	conduct	of	the	Lisbon	government:	“The	miserable
Portuguese	Minister	wants	to	cut	the	throat	of	his	own	credit	so	that	one	can’t
tell	the	world	with	any	degree	of	certainty	that	the	interest	will	be	paid,	and	so	he
makes	it	appear	as	if	he	wants	to	bring	everything	down.”	“Your	Portuguese	are
giving	me	a	fever,”	he	wrote	to	London	in	December	1836.	“Never	before	in	my
life	has	anything	upset	me	so	much.	These	people	are	nothing	more	than	the
scum	of	the	earth.”	The	only	aim	now	was	to	“persuade	the	public	that	these
people	have	positively	decided	to	ruin	the	credit	and	that	we	on	our	part	have
been	doing	everything	in	our	power	to	prevent	this.”	“We	have	to	get	out	of	this
shit	as	quickly	as	we	can,”	he	reiterated	a	day	later,	“because	we	are	dealing	here

--- Page 476 ---
with	thoroughly	disreputable	people	and	with	a	minister	who	speculates	on	the
demise	of	his	own	country.”
Yet	when	the	same	problem	arose	in	1837	Lionel	had	no	option	but	to	offer
once	again	to	bail	the	government	out:	after	all,	the	bonds	on	which	the	interest
was	due	were	still	the	bonds	which	had	been	issued	by	Rothschilds	two	years
before.	James	too	could	see	no	alternative	but	to	offer	another	short-term
advance,	especially	now	that	the	Rothschilds’	old	friends	the	Saxe-Coburgs	had
become	involved	through	Ferdinand’s	marriage	to	Maria.	The	strategy	in	1837
was	to	give	Lisbon	one	final	injection	of	cash	“to	prevent	it	being	said	that	a
Rothschild	loan	was	not	paid,”	and	then	to	pull	out.	Even	this	attempt	at	damage-
limitation	misfired,	leading	to	a	protracted	and	highly	embarrassing	legal
wrangle	with	the	Portuguese	government.	
1
	Lionel	sought	to	rationalise	what	had
happened:	Portuguese	bonds	might	have	fallen	from	75	to	25,	but	“still	our	name
is	not	lost.”	His	uncle	was	unconvinced.	“I	don’t	wish	to	speculate	with	any
money	whatsoever	on	this	muck”	was	more	or	less	his	last	word	on	the	subject
of	Portugal.	Subsequent	attempts	to	involve	the	Rothschilds	in	the	country’s
finances	were	firmly	rebuffed.	Nor	did	their	rivals	let	them	forget	the	débâcle.
When	Barings	were	approached	for	a	loan	in	1846,	one	of	the	partners	argued
strongly	against	any	involvement	on	the	grounds	that	“Portuguese	credit	has
been	so	tainted	by	the	mismanagement	of	the	Jews	and	Jobbers	.	.	.	that	it	would
not	be	a	very	desirable	connexion	for	any	House	wishing	to	stand	well	with	the
public.”
Spain	was	politically	not	so	very	different,	though	economically	she	had	much
more	to	offer	than	Portugal.	Here	too	the	source	of	conflict	was	dynastic:	did
Salic	law—giving	preference	to	the	male	line—apply	in	Spain,	in	which	case
Ferdinand	VII’s	brother	Carlos	was	his	rightful	heir;	or	should	the	throne	pass	to
his	only	child,	Isabella,	born	in	1830?	Technically,	Isabella’s	case	was	the
stronger:	although	Salic	law	had	been	introduced	in	1713,	it	had	been	repealed—
albeit	secretly—by	Carlos	IV	in	the	Pragmatic	Sanction	of	1789,	and	Ferdinand
took	the	precaution	of	publi	cising	this	fact	five	months	before	his	daughter’s
birth.	On	the	other	hand,	when	he	fell	ill	in	1832,	it	became	apparent	that	his
brother	Carlos	had	enough	might	(if	not	right)	on	his	side	to	challenge	Isabella’s
claim,	forcing	her	mother	Maria	Christina	into	temporarily	revoking	the
Pragmatic	Sanction.	Ferdinand’s	unexpected	recovery	forced	Carlos	to	flee	to
Portugal,	but	civil	war	was	now	more	or	less	inevitable.	When	the	king	finally
died	in	September	1833,	Carlos	revealed	that	he	had	no	intention	of	recognising
Maria	Christina’s	regency,	returning	to	Spain	to	mobilise	his	supporters	ten

--- Page 477 ---
months	later.	As	in	Portugal,	the	dynastic	dispute	had	an	ideological
significance:	Carlos	was	the	Spanish	Dom	Miguel,	the	reactionary	“wicked
uncle,”	while	his	sister-in-law	Christina	(after	an	initial	dalliance	with	reforming
absolutism	in	the	person	of	Cea	Bermudez)	allied	herself	with	“moderate”
liberals	
like	Martinez	de	la	Rosa,	and	therefore	enjoyed	conditional	support	from
the	more	“progressive”	democrats	who	harked	back	to	the	revolution	of	1820.
The	war	also	had	a	regional	dimension:	while	Carlism	was	strongest	in	the
countryside	of	Navarre	and	the	Basque	provinces,	Isabella’s	cause	appealed
more	to	the	bureaucrats	of	Madrid	and	the	financiers	of	the	country’s	main
commercial	centres.
There	were	four	reasons	for	offering	financial	support	to	the	government	of
the	young	Queen.	As	in	the	case	of	Portugal,	there	were	the	short-run	profits	to
be	made	from	selling	new,	high	yield	bonds	to	investors	bored	with	increasingly
predictable	consols	and	rentes;	but	of	course	such	bonds	could	just	as	easily	be
issued	for	Don	Carlos.	The	decision	to	plump	for	Isabella	was	partly	diplomatic:
the	Quadruple	Alliance	of	1834	between	Britain,	Portugal,	Spain	and	(later)
France	seemed	to	signal	unequivocal	foreign	support	for	Isabella’s	regime	from
the	two	powers	who	traditionally	wielded	most	influence	in	the	Peninsula.	More
importantly,	however,	Spain	(unlike	Portugal)	had	a	particular	kind	of	asset
which	proved	irresistibly	attractive	to	the	Rothschilds	as	a	security	for	any	loans:
the	mercury	mines	of	Almadén	to	the	west	of	Ciudad	Real,	one	of	only	two
major	sources	of	the	metal	in	the	world	at	this	time.	For	over	three	centuries,	the
mines	had	played	a	pivotal	role	in	the	international	monetary	system	because	of
the	use	of	mercury	(or	“quicksilver”	as	the	Rothschilds	preferred	to	call	it)	in	the
refining	of	silver	and	gold	in	Latin	America.	This	in	itself	made	them	attractive
to	bankers.	The	crucial	point	was	that	the	Spanish	government	traditionally	sold
the	rights	to	work	the	mines	and	to	market	their	output	to	private	companies,
most	famously	mortgaging	them	in	the	sixteenth	century	to	the	Augsburg
bankers,	the	Fuggers.	Decisively,	these	mines	were	controlled	by	Isabella’s
forces	for	most	of	the	civil	war.	Finally,	despite	the	dramatic	contraction	of	her
American	empire,	Spain	still	had	lucrative	commercial	ties	with	her	remaining
colonies,	notably	Cuba	and	the	Philippines;	the	former	in	particular	was
attractive	to	the	Rothschilds	because	of	its	importance	in	the	tobacco	trade.
There	were	also,	on	the	other	hand,	three	difficulties	attendant	on	any
financial	involvement	with	Spain.	Firstly,	and	most	obviously,	there	was	the
confusion	caused	by	the	country’s	protracted	and	inconclusive	civil	war.	It	was
not	until	1839—six	years	after	Ferdinand’s	death—that	the	Carlist	forces	were

--- Page 478 ---
effectively	defeated.	During	that	period,	there	were	repeated	changes	of
government	in	Madrid,	as	“Moderados”	and	“Progresistas”	(to	give	the	factions
their	later	names)	vied	for	control,	the	latter	pressing	for	a	more	parliamentary
and	anti-clerical	regime	than	Maria	Christina	had	ever	intended.	Matters	were
further	complicated	by	the	growth	in	political	influence	of	the	leading	military
commanders;	indeed	it	was	one	of	these,	General	Baldomero	Espartero,	who,
with	Progresista	support,	forced	Maria	Christina	to	abdicate	as	Regent	just	a	year
after	leading	her	forces	to	victory.	Espartero	in	turn	was	ousted	in	1843	and
replaced	a	year	later	by	his	rival	General	Narváez,	who	presided	over	what
amounted	to	a	decade	of	Moderado	hegemony	until	yet	another	revolution	in
1854.
The	second	argument	against	involvement	in	this	unstable	country	was
furnished	by	the	bonds	issued	under	the	liberal	regime	of	the	early	1820s,	the	so-
called	“Cortes”	(that	is,	parliament)	bonds,	which	King	Ferdinand	had	refused	to
honour	following	the	suppression	of	the	revolution.	A	law	of	1831	formally
“deferred”	interest	payments	on	these	bonds	for	forty	years,	but	this	was	scant
consolation	to	
the	investors	who	had	bought	them;	and	the	English	holders	of	the
Cortes	bonds	were	determined	to	oppose	any	further	issues	of	Spanish	paper	on
the	London	stock	exchange	until	they	had	secured	better	terms.	Events	were	to
reveal	the	extreme	difficulty	of	re-establishing	Spanish	credit	internationally
with	memories	of	default	so	fresh.	Finally,	the	support	of	the	so-called	“Northern
courts”—Austria,	Russia	and	Prussia—for	the	Carlist	cause	proved	to	be
stronger	than	their	support	for	Dom	Miguel.	Even	if	he	could	not	contemplate
direct	military	intervention,	Metternich	proved	able	to	exert	considerable
diplomatic	influence	over	events	in	Spain.
For	all	these	reasons,	the	Rothschilds	were	initially	reluctant	to	act	alone	in
Spain.	As	early	as	December	1830	James	and	Nathan	entered	a	kind	of
“sleeping”	partnership	(in	return	for	a	2.5	per	cent	commission	on	sales)	with	the
company	which	leased	the	Almadén	mines	in	that	year.	This	was	intended	as	a
first	step	towards	greater	involvement.	“When	the	time	comes	that	the
Government	wants	to	farm	it	out,”	James	observed	to	his	brother,	“you	will	then
be	well	placed	to	know	exactly	who	all	the	customers	are	and	how	much	one	can
sell	and	you	will	then	find	it	that	much	easier	to	submit	a	proposal	for	the	whole
sum.”	More	problematically,	as	it	proved,	James	committed	the	Rothschilds	to
share	all	Spanish	financial	business	with	a	consortium	of	Paris	bankers	led	by
the	Spaniard	Aguado.	This	provided	a	degree	of	camouflage	for	speculative
dealings	in	existing	Spanish	paper	(for	the	Cortes	bonds	continued	to	be	traded,

--- Page 479 ---
though	at	a	price	of	around	30);	but	it	placed	awkward	restrictions	on	Rothschild
room	for	manoeuvre	when	new	business	had	to	be	discussed	with	the	Spanish
government.	By	the	summer	of	1833,	when	a	major	tobacco	deal	came	to
nothing,	Lionel	was	already	finding	the	agreement	with	Aguado	and	his
associates	more	a	hindrance	than	a	help.
The	debate	over	whether	to	increase	or	diminish	this	involvement	in	Spain
placed	a	greater	strain	on	familial	harmony	than	any	other	issue	the	Rothschilds
had	to	contend	with	before	1848;	indeed,	it	is	not	too	much	to	say	that	it
threatened	to	break	up	the	partnership	between	the	five	houses.	Nathan	was
evidently	keen	to	play	a	bigger	and	more	independent	role	in	Spanish	finances,	a
position	consistently	supported	by	his	nephew	Anselm	and	rather	less
consistently	by	Lionel.	James	vacillated	endlessly,	one	day	seeing	all	the
advantages,	the	next	day	seeing	only	the	risks:	“With	this	country	there	is	a	lot	of
money	to	be	made,	but	on	the	other	hand,	one	could	lose	a	great	deal	of	one’s
reputation”—this	was	James’s	constant	refrain	throughout	the	1830s.	“You	know
my	dear	Papa	how	he	[James]	is,”	wrote	Lionel	impatiently:	“One	minute	he	is
for	and	one	minute	he	is	against	the	Business.”	Unlike	his	own	son,	Salomon
was	generally	opposed	to	direct—or,	to	be	precise,	overt—involvement,
primarily	because	of	the	intense	pressure	to	which	he	was	subjected	by
Metternich.	But	he	too	was	inclined	to	waver:	“Be	so	good	as	to	read	Uncle
Salomon’s	letters,”	Lionel	urged	his	father	sarcastically	in	March	1834,	“the	first
for	the	
Spanish
	,	the	second	
against
,	the	third	
for
.”
Nathan’s	initial	strategy	seems	to	have	been	to	secure	some	sort	of	agreement
on	the	old	Cortes	bonds	as	the	prelude	to	any	new	Spanish	loan.	However,	all	the
Spanish	negotiators	with	whom	the	Rothschilds	dealt	carefully	avoided	giving	a
commitment	on	the	issue.	After	exceptionally	convoluted	and	protracted
negotiations,	Nathan	decided	to	ignore	the	warnings	of	Metternich,	the	Austrian
ambassador	Apponyi,	the	Russian	ambassador	Pozzo	and	no	fewer	than	three
French	ministers	(Broglie,	Rigny	and	Soult),	all	of	whom	strongly	advised	the
Rothschilds	
to	avoid	Spain.
2
	Despite	the	reservations	of	James	and	Lionel,	who
continued	to	argue	for,	at	most,	a	joint	and	preferably	anonymous	operation	with
the	Paris	consortium,	on	April	18	Nathan	unilaterally	proposed	to	advance	the
Spanish	government	15	million	francs	to	pay	the	interest	due	at	the	end	of	June
on	its	undeferred	bonds.	He	had	obtained	no	firm	guarantee	from	Madrid	that	the
Cortes	bonds	would	be	revalued,	merely	an	empty	promise	that	the	issue	would
be	raised	when	the	Cortes	met.	Nor	did	he	receive	any	security	for	his	advance
when	the	agreement	was	signed	with	the	Spanish	ambassador	in	Paris	and	a

--- Page 480 ---
representative	of	the	Bank	of	San	Fernando	on	June	7.	As	the	Carlist-inclined
Duke	of	Wellington	sardonically	observed,	the	Rothschilds	were	now	well	and
truly	“in	the	boat”;	and,	just	as	Metternich	and	the	rest	had	predicted,	“the	boat”
began	to	sink	almost	at	once.	Given	the	country’s	notorious	record	of	default,	it
is	not	surprising	that	Nathan’s	decision	to	involve	himself	in	Spanish	finances
attracted	satirical	comment.	Two	cartoons	portrayed	him	as	a	“Jew-dish-us
cakeman,”	standing	by	his	trademark	pillar	selling	a	“rice	cake”	marked	“Loan”
(see	illustrations	13.i	and	13.ii).	“Who’s	for	a	slice?	Who’s	for	a	slice?”	reads	the
caption	on	the	first.	“All	Hot!	All	Hot!	Take	care	you	don’t	burn	your	Fingers,
Plenty	of	cakes	but	none	like	I	make.”	From	his	pocket	portrudes	a	bill	marked
“Spanish.”	The	second	cartoon	shows	the	“cakeman”	with	his	stall	under	his
arm,	having	sold	the	cake.	“Dat	rice	cake	sold	very	well—I	hope	it	vill	agree	wid
my	customers—I	vil	make	anoder.”
13.i:	Anon.,
	
No.	1.	CITY	POLITICS—JEW-DISH-US	CAKEMAN:	WHO’S
FOR	A	SLICE?	WHO’S	FOR	A	SLICE?
	
(1834	or	1835).

--- Page 481 ---
13.ii:	Anon.,
	
No.	2.	CITY	POLITICS—JEW-DISH-US	CAKEMAN.	DAT
RICE	CAKE	SOLD	VERY	WELL
	
(1834	or	1835).
It	is	not	easy	to	see	why	Nathan	acted	as	he	did.	It	is	possible	that	he	(along
with	Anselm)	was	lulled	by	the	announcement	of	the	Quadruple	Alliance	into
thinking	that	the	danger	of	civil	war	would	fade,	though	there	is	no	indication	of
any	official	nudge	in	this	direction	from	Palmerston;	on	the	contrary,
Palmerston’s	man	in	Madrid,	Charles	Villiers,	indignantly	accused	Nathan	of
“
doing
”	the	Spanish	government	with	“not	very	advantageous	conditions.”	The
most	likely	explanation	was	that	he	wanted	to	pre-empt	a	rival	bid	by	Thomas
Wilson	or	Aguado	and	establish	himself	(or	James)	as	“court	banker”	to	Maria
Christina,	in	anticipation	of	a	major	new	loan	and	conversion	operation	when	the
Cortes	finally	met.	He	plainly	had	a	plan	ready	to	convert	the	old	Cortes	bonds
and	probably	also	anticipated	short-run	speculative	profits,	assuming	that	the
announcement	of	a	Rothschild	advance	would	boost	their	prices.	One
(admittedly	hostile)	Austrian	diplomat	recalled	his	saying:	“I	must	grant	it	[the
loan]	because	if	I	don’t,	somebody	else	will.”	Whatever	his	motive,	the	advance
was	uncharacteristically	reckless.	As	James,	Lionel	and	Anselm	had	all	foreseen,

--- Page 482 ---
the	other	French	bankers	promptly	sued	James,	on	the	ground	that	Nathan	had
acted	without	due	regard	to	the	consortium	contract.	Only	by	offering	Aguado	a
new	agreement	to	share	any	future	loan	was	James	able	to	avert	a	costly	defeat
in	the	courts.	Nor	did	the	Spanish	government’s	promise	to	bring	the	question	of
the	deferred	bonds	before	the	new	Cortes	satisfy	
the	Committee	of	the	stock
exchange	in	London.	In	Paris	too	the	markets	were	unconvinced	by	Nathan’s
plan:	Spanish	bonds	fell	sharply	in	late	June.	Worse	still,	no	sooner	had	the	15
million	francs	been	paid	over	than	a	new	Finance	Minister	took	over	in	Madrid
who	a	month	later	reneged	on	the	agreement,	claiming	that	the	Rothschilds	had
promised	to	lend	twice	the	amount;	this	too	Nathan	had	been	warned	to	expect.
It	is	not	known	for	sure	why	the	Minister	in	question,	Toreno,	was	(as	James
put	it)	an	“enemy.”	Partly,	he	was	responding	to	domestic	pressure	to	deal	with
Spanish	bankers	like	Ardouin,	with	whom	he	concluded	an	alternative	loan
agreement	for	£4	million;	more	importantly,	he	was	intent	on	a	drastic
“reduction”	of	the	existing	Spanish	public	debt—a	conversion	which	would	have
cut	the	nominal	value	of	Spanish	bonds	by	as	much	as	75	per	cent—something
the	Rothschilds	regarded	as	a	“declaration	of	bankruptcy.”	To	make	matters
worse,	Toreno’s	appointment	coincided	with	the	return	of	Don	Carlos	to	Spain
and	an	outbreak	of	cholera	in	Madrid.	With	Apponyi,	the	Austrian	ambassador	in
Paris,	issuing	dire	warnings	as	to	the	consequences	of	French	intervention
against	Carlos,	the	price	of	Spanish	bonds	plummeted,	occasioning	suicides	and
murder	threats	on	the	Paris	bourse.	Yet	the	Rothschilds,	while	doing	their	fair
share	of	selling,	could	not	risk	an	all-out	financial	“war”	against	Toreno,	for	the
top	priority	in	the	midst	of	this	débâcle	was	to	retrieve	as	much	as	possible	of
Nathan’s	15	million	francs,	if	only	in	the	form	of	“those	stinking	[bonds]	with
which	he	is	going	bankrupt.”	It	was,	as	James	said,	“an	awful	mess”;	and	it
revealed	very	starkly	the	limitations	of	financial	power	when	confronted	by	a
government	unafraid	of	the	international	bond	market.	“All	I	want	you	to	declare
is	that	we	will	get	our	money	back	and	I	ask	nothing	further	of	you,”	James
implored	the	Spanish	representative.	“My	commission	is	now	over,”	the	latter
replied,	“I	have	been	recalled.”	In	vain,	James	appealed	to	the	ambassador,	to	the
French	government	and	to	Toreno	himself.	“My	dear	Nathan,”	he	admitted,
putting	his	finger	on	the	Rothschilds’	fundamental	weakness,	“we	don’t	have	any
troops	to	force	the	Government	to	do	that	which	it	does	not	want	to	do.”
All	along,	the	Rothschilds	had	suffered	from	a	lack	of	first-hand	knowledge	of
Spanish	affairs:	none	of	them	had	visited	Madrid	and	there	was	no	dedicated
full-time	employee	there	until	July.	This	explains	why	in	August	1834	it	was

--- Page 483 ---
decided	to	send	Lionel	(accompanied	by	the	lawyer	Adolphe	Crémieux)	to
thrash	out	some	kind	of	agreement	with	Toreno	face	to	face.	The	British
ambassador	was	impressed	by	the	young	man’s	negotiating	skills;	however,	the
Rothschild	correspondence	reveals	that	Toreno	was	able	to	convince	Lionel	that
a	fully	fledged	loan	to	Spain	was	now	the	only	way	of	averting	outright
bankruptcy	and	the	advent	of	a	republican	government.	Anselm	alone	agreed.
James	and	Nathan	by	now	were	interested	solely	in	retrieving	the	money	they
had	advanced	to	Toreno’s	predecessor.	In	January	1835	they	reluctantly	agreed
to	accept	the	equivalent	of	15	million	francs	as	a	share	of	the	new	loan	to	be
issued	by	Ardouin.	Salomon	later	estimated	their	losses	on	the	contract	at	1.6
million	francs.
Yet	Lionel’s	negotiations	achieved	what	proved	to	be	a	more	important
concession	from	Toreno;	for	during	his	stay	at	Madrid	the	contract	for	the
Almadén	mines	fell	due	for	renewal.	As	we	have	seen,	the	Rothschilds	already
had	a	stake	in	the	mines	and	they	had	begun	to	think	of	increasing	their	control
over	the	Spanish	mercury	market	during	1834.	Indeed,	Lionel	had	explicitly
suggested	asking	for	the	
mines	as	a	guarantee	for	the	15	million	francs	advanced.
He	now	outbid	four	other	companies	to	secure	the	new	contract—essentially	by
bribing	Toreno	and	the	Queen	and	by	offering,	instead	of	a	sealed	bid,	to	pay	5
per	cent	more	than	the	highest	rival	bid.	The	following	year	the	contract	was
renegotiated	in	such	a	way	that	it	became	rather	more	advantageous	for	the
Rothschilds.	This	was	the	beginning	of	a	long	and	profitable	involvement.
According	to	the	Rothschilds’	own	estimates,	the	mines	at	the	time	of	the	1835
agreement	were	producing	between	16,000	and	18,000	hundredweight	of
mercury	a	year.	Under	the	1835	contract,	they	paid	the	government	rather	more
(54.5	pesetas	or	£2.18	per	hundredweight)	than	they	had	paid	under	the	previous
contract	(37	pesetas);	but	were	then	able	to	resell	the	mercury	in	London	for	76-
80	pesetas	or	to	silver	refineries	in	Mexico	for	as	much	as	150	pesetas	per
hundredweight.	In	sterling	terms,	that	represented	a	profit	of	at	the	very	least
£13,000	a	year,	with	the	possibility	of	more	if	the	output	of	the	mines	could	be
increased	without	depressing	prices.	When	production	was	stepped	up	in	1838,
the	Rothschilds’	annual	income	from	the	mines	rose	to	£32,000,	though	this	level
of	output	proved	unsustainable.	That	amounted	to	more	than	13	per	cent	of	the
total	net	revenue	from	the	mines—and	no	less	than	38	per	cent	of	the	London
house’s	profits	(though	half	the	money	was	shared	with	the	Paris	house).	By	the
1840s,	20	per	cent	was	James’s	target	return	from	Almadén.
The	acquisition	of	the	mercury	rights	also	signalled	a	radical	change	of	policy.

--- Page 484 ---
From	now	on,	rather	than	issue	bonds	for	Spain	against	effectively	worthless
paper	securities,	they	would	finance	the	country’s	chronically	unreliable
government	by	making	relatively	short-run	advances	on	the	royalties	they	had	to
pay	for	the	Almadén	mercury.	Later,	similar	advances	would	be	made	on	the
basis	of	copper	and	tobacco	from	Cuba.	Commodities	thus	proved	to	be	the	best
kind	of	security	for	loans	to	unstable	states.	In	his	comic	poem	“Romancero”
Heine	joked	that	Mendizábal	(who	became	Finance	Minister	in	1835)	had
pawned	an	ancient	pearl	necklace	“to	cover	certain	/	deficits	in	state	finances”;
these	had	duly	appeared	“at	the	Tuileries	.	.	.	shimmering	on	the	neck	of	Madame
Solomon,	baroness.”	Contemporaries	would	probably	have	recognised	the
allusion	to	the	“jewels”	of	Almadén.
Of	course,	the	Spanish	government	may	have	hoped	that	the	mercury	deal
would	lure	the	Rothschilds	into	making	a	full-scale	loan.	But	in	this	they	were
sorely	disappointed.	True,	by	the	spring	of	1835	James	was	feeling	more
sanguine	about	Spain	following	the	success	of	Ardouin’s	loan.	This,	however,
proved	to	be	short-lived	as	the	Carlists	seemed	to	gain	the	upper	hand.	The	key
question	now	became	whether	any	foreign	power	would	intervene	to	decide	the
outcome	of	the	civil	war.	This	had	always	been	a	possibility:	France	had
intervened	in	Spain	just	over	a	decade	before	and	there	had	been	abortive	liberal
expeditions	in	the	wake	of	the	1830	revolution.	The	Quadruple	Alliance	also
seemed	to	imply	some	sort	of	British	action	on	behalf	of	Maria	Christina’s
regime	(provided	the	Whigs	stayed	in	power).	But	it	was	only	after	Toreno	had
wrecked	his	financial	plans	that	Nathan	became	a	convert	to	the	idea	of	military
intervention,	as	did	Lionel.	James,	summoned	to	London	to	decide	the	next
move,	once	again	wavered.	The	experience	of	the	early	1830s	had	made	him
deeply	suspicious	of	the	more	hawkish	French	politicians,	and	he	was	inclined	to
reinforce	Louis	Philippe’s	pacific	inclinations	against	the	projects	for
intervention	hatched	by	Thiers.	On	the	other	hand,	he	found	it	difficult	to	oppose
his	elder	brother	on	the	Spanish	issue	and	gradually	came	round	to	supporting
intervention.	By	contrast,	their	brother	Salomon—who	had	all	along	had	his
doubts	about	getting	involved	with	Spain—now	acted	energetically	to	counter
Nathan’s	arguments	for	intervention,	ultimately	going	to	extraordinary	lengths	to
dissociate	himself	from	his	brother’s	actions	in	his	correspondence	with
Metternich.
Metternich	had	been	kept	well	informed	of	Nathan’s	actions	by	the	Austrian
chargé	d’affaires	in	London,	Hummelauer,	and	a	junior	official	named	Kirchner
who	was	supposedly	assisting	Nathan	with	his	consular	duties.	He	therefore

--- Page 485 ---
knew	that	Nathan	was	arguing	for	British	intervention;	indeed,	Nathan	appears
to	have	admitted	it	openly	to	the	Austrian	ambassador	Esterházy.	To	clear
himself	of	guilt	by	association,	Salomon	therefore	had	to	write	one	of	the	most
extraordinary	of	all	Rothschild	letters,	addressed	to	his	senior	clerk	in	Vienna,
Leopold	von	Wertheimstein,	but	explicitly	intended	for	Metternich’s	eyes.	He
began	by	claiming	that	the	collapse	in	Spanish	bond	prices	following	Toreno’s
appointment	as	Finance	Minister	had	been	engineered	by	the	Rothschilds	as	an
act	of	“vengeance”	on	Toreno	for	the	losses	he	had	caused	them.	According	to
accounts	which	Salomon	enclosed,	Nathan	had	sold	no	less	than	£2	million	of
Spanish	bonds,	ruining	Toreno’s	credit	and	proving	that	the	Rothschilds	were
now	“confirmed	enemies	of	Spain.”	Not	only	that,	but	Salomon	and	James	had
then	gone	to	see	Talleyrand,	Guizot,	Broglie	and	Louis	Philippe	himself	to	argue
“that	France’s	credit	would	go	to	the	devil	if	they	intervened,	and	that	they
would	have	to	face	a	second	and	third	revolution.”	There	was	therefore	no
question	of	the	Rothschilds	lending	“a	single	farthing”	more	to	Spain.	As	if	to
convince	Metternich	of	his	sincerity,	Salomon’s	letter	concluded	by	heaping
abuse	on	Nathan’s	head.	“My	brother	Nathan	Mayer,”	he	wrote,
is	one	of	the	ablest	men	as	far	as	the	Exchequer	and	price	movements	are
concerned	but	has	no	special	aptitude	in	other	matters	.	.	.	[H]e	is	a	child	in
politics	.	.	.	[and]	believes	that	the	Powers	will	be	pleased	by	intervention	.	.	.	In
other	matters	that	are	not	concerned	with	the	Bourse,	[he]	is	not	particularly
bright;	he	is	exceedingly	competent	in	his	office,	but	apart	from	that,	between
ourselves,	he	can	hardly	spell	his	own	name.	This	brother	of	mine,	however,	is
so	disgusted	with	Spain	that	he	can	hardly	bear	himself,	just	like	all	of	us,	only
perhaps	he	feels	it	more	because	he	realises	that	he	made	the	advance	of
15,000,000	francs	without	asking	any	of	his	partners	about	it.
Nor	was	that	all.	Salomon	even	went	so	far	as	to	suggest	that	Nathan’s	error
had	put	the	entire	future	of	the	brothers’	partnership	in	jeopardy:
I	myself	do	not	yet	know	when	we	brothers	will	meet;	whether	the	affair	of	the
Spanish	Loan	will	cause	a	split	we	shall	see.	I	am	sixty,	my	brother	at	Frankfurt
is	sixty-two;	I	have	only	two	children	and	if	I	live	very	carefully	I	can	live	on	the
interest	of	my	capital;	I	have	fortunately	only	to	provide	for	my	son,	as	my	Betty
is	as	rich	as	her	father.	I	do	not	mean	that	I	intend	to	give	up	business	but	only	to
see	to	it	that	I	can	sleep	peacefully.	The	Spanish	affair	has	completely	ruined	my
nerves;	it	is	not	the	loss	of	money,	for	even	if	the	whole	15,000,000	francs	had
been	lost	my	share	would	have	been	only	3,000,000,	but	the	unpleasantness

--- Page 486 ---
which	we	have	had	with	this	business.	Now	Nathan	Mayer	Rothschild	has	four
grown-up	sons,	and	Carl	has	two	younger	boys,	so	they	manage	on	the	basis	of	a
dozen	heads.	Because	my	father	has	so	disposed	we	shall	
probably	have	to
remain	together,	but	I	must	confess	that	it	has	all	very	much	tired	and	exhausted
Your,
S.	M.	v.	Rothschild.
For	good	measure,	Salomon	then	accused	the	Russian	ambassador	Pozzo	of
slandering	James	because	he	had	been	excluded	from	a	profitable	issue	of
Austrian	bonds.	This	was	no	mere	charade:	the	Rothschilds’	private
correspondence	indicates	how	strongly	Salomon	felt	on	this	issue.	As	late	as
1840—after	Don	Carlos	had	been	defeated—James	could	still	tell	his	nephews:
[W]e	can’t	make	a	loan	for	Spain	under	our	own	name,	unless	a	guarantee	is
provided	by	England	and	by	France	and	.	.	.	nevertheless	I	tell	you,	my	dear
nephews,	I	don’t	want	to	have	anything	to	do	with	it	.	.	.	[I]t	is	only	if	the
Governments	provide	us	with	the	necessary	guarantees	that	we	can	give	the
Northern	Powers	a	reason,	otherwise	I	can	tell	you,	my	dear	nephews,	that	the
first	thing	which	my	good	Salomon	will	do	will	be	to	withdraw	from	the
business.	Do	you	think	that	this	deal	will	generate	a	large	enough	profit	to	justify
doing	something	like	this?
It	has	generally	been	assumed	that	on	this	issue	Metternich’s	political	power
prevailed	over	the	Rothschilds’	financial	interests.	Armed	with	good-quality
intelligence	and	making	the	most	of	Salomon’s	desire	to	acquire	the	title	of
Austrian	consul	for	his	son	and	nephews,	Metternich	appears	to	have	succeeded
in	scuppering	the	project	of	an	Anglo-French	guaranteed	loan	to	Toreno’s
mercurial	successor,	Mendizábal.	Like	the	British	ambassador	in	Spain,
Mendizábal	assumed	that	the	Rothschilds	would	back	this	project,	not	least
because	of	his	business	links	with	James,	with	whom	he	had	done	business	in
Portuguese	bonds.
3
	But	Nathan—apparently	responding	to	Salomon’s	pressure
—chose	to	leak	the	Anglo-French	plan	to	Vienna	and	more	or	less	deliberately
allowed	the	project	to	fall	through,	leaving	Mendizábal	high	and	dry.	Indeed,	he
told	Palmerston	that	he	had	no	confidence	in	the	solvency	of	Mendizábal’s
government.	When	the	British	Foreign	Secretary	pointed	out	that	the	planned
sale	of	crown	lands	would	raise	money,	Nathan	replied	with	a	characteristically
earthy	image:	“Yes,	in	time,	but	not	in	time	for	the	May	dividend.	It	is	like
telling	me	at	seven	o’clock	when	I	want	my	dinner	[that]	there	is	a	calf	feeding
in	a	field	a	mile	off.”	Contrary	to	the	widespread	expectation	in	diplomatic

--- Page 487 ---
circles	that	they	were	itching	to	make	such	a	guaranteed	loan,	in	fact	Nathan	and
James	were	steadily	baling	out	of	Spanish	bonds	altogether.
The	decisive	moment	in	the	civil	war	coincided	with	the	Frankfurt	family
“summit”	and	Nathan’s	death.	Ultimately,	despite	pressure	from	the	French
government	to	come	to	Maria	Christina’s	assistance,	the	Rothschilds	kept	on
selling	Spanish	bonds;	indeed,	Nathan’s	last	instructions	to	his	sons	were	to
liquidate	all	their	holdings.	After	his	death,	this	clear-out	continued,	so	that	by
1837	the	Rothschilds	had	more	or	less	withdrawn	completely	from	the	market
for	Spanish	bonds.	The	Spanish	Prime	Minister	was	now	“that	stinking
Mendizábal,”	whom	James	had	“never	trusted”;	Spanish	bonds—now	trading	as
low	as	19—were	simply	“muck”	or	“shit.”	The	fact	that	Salomon	moved	so
quickly	after	Nathan’s	death	to	secure	for	Lionel	the	Austrian	consulship	in
London	also	seems	to	point	to	the	importance	of	Metternich’s	leverage.
However,	although	Metternich	appeared	to	have	won,	the	private	Rothschild
letters	show	that	if	France	and	Britain	had	intervened	militarily—rather	than	just
financially—the	Rothschilds	might	well	have	resumed	large-scale	lending	to
Spain.	In	ditching	Mendizábal,	Nathan	was	not	merely	bowing	to	pressure	from
Vienna.	He	was	acting	out	of	self-interest,	in	the	belief	that	any	loan	to	Spain
was	bound	to	fail	in	the	absence	of	military	intervention:	no	Spanish	government
could	now	afford	to	pay	both	the	interest	on	its	external	debt	and	an	army	big
enough	to	beat	the	Carlists.	Despite	all	that	Salomon	had	said	to	Metternich,	by
March	1836	James	was	privately	itching	for	France	to	intervene.	As	he	put	it	to
Nathan	following	an	inconclusive	meeting	with	Louis	Philippe	and	Thiers:
If	we	should	be	so	fortunate	that	we,	over	here,	decide	to	intervene	[in	Spain],
this	could	make	a	difference	for	us	of	many	hundreds	of	thousands	of	pounds
sterling,	and	we	could	earn	a	great	deal	of	money,	because	we	could	then	calmly
deal	in	bills,	quicksilver	and	everything	else,	but,	unfortunately,	I	don’t	have	any
influence,	nor	indeed,	does	anyone	else	have	influence	over	the	King	.	.	.	I	hope
to	God	that	they	will	indeed	decide	to	intervene	and	you	can	then	imagine	how
much	business	this	will	generate.	I	spoke	so	much	[in	favour	of	intervention]	that
my	tongue	nearly	fell	out	of	my	throat.
When	the	possibility	of	French	intervention	surfaced	again	in	July,	he	and	Lionel
were	again	briefly	enthused,	only	to	be	disappointed	at	the	half-heartedness	of
the	measures	taken.
4
	It	was	the	same	story	when	Thiers	failed	to	overcome	the
King’s	opposition	to	intervention	in	the	spring	of	1837.	Nor	should	it	be	assumed
that	the	Rothschilds’	refusal	to	back	a	full-scale	loan	to	Mendizábal	implied	a

--- Page 488 ---
complete	withdrawal	from	Spanish	finances.	Before	long,	the	practice	of	making
advances	on	the	mercury	from	the	Almadén	mines	was	resumed	(despite
Salomon’s	assurances	to	the	contrary	to	Metternich),	making	sums	of	the	order
of	£100,000	available	to	the	government.	James	also	became	increasingly
interested	in	the	revenue	Spain	was	earning	from	Havana.	In	January	1837	some
sort	of	deal	was	proposed	by	Mendizábal	involving	a	buy-back	of	the	deferred
Cortes	bonds	in	return	for	bills	on	Havana.	Interestingly,	the	Rothschilds—
Salomon	included—were	keen	to	do	this,	provided	it	could	be	kept	secret.	They
were	also	continuing	to	pay	the	salaries	of	Spanish	diplomats	in	Paris	at	this
time,	an	arrangement	dating	back	to	1834.	Where	they	drew	the	line	was	at
issuing	bonds.	Even	when	the	idea	was	put	forward	for	a	loan	secured	on	Cuban
revenues,	they	showed	little	serious	inclination	to	get	involved	(though	this
hesitation	was	probably	reinforced	by	the	impact	of	the	1837	American	crisis	in
Cuba	and	by	the	contemporaneous	gains	made	by	Don	Carlos	in	Spain).
Of	course,	it	would	have	been	difficult	to	retain	control	of	the	lucrative
mercury	business	without	making	any	concessions	to	the	Spanish	government.	A
shot	was	fired	across	Rothschild	bows	when,	not	long	after	the	fall	of
Mendizábal	in	August	1837,	the	Cortes	sought	to	revoke	the	Almadén	contract,
arguing	that	it	had	been	improperly	modified	two	years	before.	Defenders	of	the
1835	contract	in	Madrid	warned	that,	if	deprived	of	the	Almadén	mines,	the
Rothschilds	might	back	Don	Carlos	“for	they	are	the	monetary	dynasty	of
Europe,	and	a	new	lever	in	the	balance	of	power,	which	might	decide	the	success
of	the	Pretender	by	inclining	the	scales	in	
his	favour.”	But	only	by	agreeing	to
make	more	(and	larger)	advances	on	mercury	and	Havana	bills	were	the
Rothschilds	able	to	retain	the	contract;	and	increasingly	they	had	to	allow	their
agent	Weisweiller	considerable	latitude	in	the	granting	of	such	advances	to	avoid
similar	challenges,	even	turning	a	blind	eye	to	the	partnership	he	struck	up	with
the	governor	of	the	Queen’s	court,	Manuel	Gaviria.	Of	all	the	threats	to	their
position,	the	biggest	was	probably	posed	by	the	banker	Aguado,	who	returned	to
dangle	the	possibility	of	a	large	loan	in	front	of	the	new	Espartero	government,
with	a	view—so	the	Rothschilds	suspected—to	challenging	their	monopoly	at
Almadén.	The	new	Finance	Minister	Alejandro	Mon	did	his	best	to	convince
James	that	without	a	loan	of	£5	million	the	Rothschilds	would	lose	the	mines.
But	Salomon,	with	Metternich	still	breathing	down	his	neck,	continued	to
oppose	involvement	in	any	such	loan	unless	it	could	be	done	through	a	“front”
like	the	Bank	of	San	Fernando;	and	James	remained	leery	of	the	purely
economic	risks	involved	(not	least	because	the	Carlists	managed	to	occupy

--- Page 489 ---
Almadén	briefly	in	the	course	of	April	1838).	Once	again	it	proved	possible	to
hold	on	to	the	mines	by	means	of	large	advances,	which	fluctuated	between
around	£200,000	and	£400,000.	In	1839,	with	the	Carlist	threat	more	or	less
dead,	there	was	renewed	talk	of	a	loan,	but	the	Rothschilds	still	declined	to	be
involved,	showing	much	more	interest	in	establishing	some	kind	of	tobacco
monopoly.	As	James	shrewdly	anticipated,	the	defeat	of	Don	Carlos	merely
unleashed	the	Moderado	opposition	to	Espartero,	replacing	one	form	of	political
instability	with	another.
The	price	of	this	strategy—which	gave	the	Spanish	government	as	much
money	as	a	bond	issue,	if	not	more—was	a	good	deal	of	Austrian	irritation.
Despite	their	best	efforts,	the	Rothschilds	could	not	hope	to	conceal	what	they
were	up	to	from	Metternich	(it	was	at	this	point	that	they	began	to	realise	that
Kirchner	was	effectively	spying	on	them).	Yet	the	consequences	were	not
serious:	even	James’s	fears	that	Lionel	might	lose	his	Austrian	consulship
proved	unfounded.	Throughout	the	successive	revolutions,	coups	and
pronunciamentos	of	the	early	1840s,	Rothschild	policy	remained	consistent:	to
hang	on	to	Almadén	(albeit	on	rather	less	lucrative	terms),	to	expand	their
involvement	with	the	Cuban	and	Philippines	trade,	but	to	eschew	bond	issues.
Politically,	their	position	remained	ambiguous:	they	apparently	continued	to	act
as	Maria	Christina’s	bankers	even	after	Espartero	had	overthrown	her,	while	at
the	same	time	leaving	Weisweiller	to	maintain	normal	service	first	with
Espartero	and	then	with	his	Moderado	successor	Narváez.	This	proved	to	be	the
only	way	of	reconciling	the	sharply	conflicting	interests	of	the	London,	Paris	and
Vienna	houses.	The	agreement	reached	in	1843	with	the	Austrian	government
for	the	import	of	12	million	Havana	cigars	may	be	seen	as	a	kind	of	Rothschild
peace-offering,	designed	to	reconcile	Metternich	to	the	continuation	of	such
business	with	Spain	and	her	colonies.
A	quite	different	diplomatic	complication	arose	in	the	mid-1840s	when	the
powers	began	to	debate	the	question	of	Queen	Isabella’s	marriage.	The	French
wished	to	marry	Isabella	to	her	hypochondriac	(and,	they	hoped,	impotent)
cousin	Francisco	de	Asis	and	her	sister	to	one	of	Louis	Philippe’s	sons,	the	duc
de	Montpensier;	Palmerston,	appreciating	that	this	might	one	day	put	a	grandson
of	Louis	Philippe	on	the	Spanish	throne,	favoured	the	inevitable	Coburg;	while
Metternich	argued	for	a	marriage	between	Isabella	and	Don	Carlos’s	son
Montemolin,	to	bridge	
symbolically	the	dynastic	rift.	There	was	an	economic
subtext,	as	usual,	with	France	and	Britain	seeking	trade	agreements	with	Spain,
as	well	as	the	usual	talk	of	internationally	guaranteed	loans	and	renewed	efforts

--- Page 490 ---
by	the	British	bondholders	to	get	their	unpaid	interest.	There	was	a	good	deal	of
excitement	about	this	at	the	time,	including	fanciful	rumours	in	Madrid	that
James	was	refusing	to	lend	money	to	Spain	until	Isabella	had	settled	the
succession	question	by	having	a	son.	However,	the	Rothschilds	were	little	more
than	reluctant	onlookers	and	occasional	messengers	in	all	this:	it	merely
hardened	them	in	their	resolve	to	abandon	Spanish	bonds.	When	Guizot	and	his
ambassador	in	Madrid	interpreted	James’s	refusal	to	back	a	loan	to	Narváez	and
Mon	as	a	vote	of	no	confidence	in	their	marriage	schemes,	they	failed	to	see	that
this	was	merely	the	continuation	of	a	Rothschild	policy	dating	back	fully	ten
years.	Once	again	the	great	powers’	conflicting	interests	threatened	to	impinge
on	the	interests	of	the	Rothschild	houses;	but	this	time	a	position	of	neutrality
was	easier	to	sustain	as	none	of	the	Queen’s	possible	spouses	posed	a	threat	to
the	Almadén	monopoly.	Control	of	the	mines	remained	the	sole	object	of
Rothschild	policy	in	Spain.	Nor	was	it	to	be	their	last	step	away	from	“pure”
finance	and	commerce,	into	the	very	different	business	of	mineral	extraction
(and	later	also	refining).
Yet	even	the	commitment	to	Almadén	was	not	unconditional.	On	the	contrary:
when	the	mercury	contract	came	up	for	renewal	in	1847,	the	Rothschilds	were	so
unimpressed	by	the	terms	the	Spanish	government	was	prepared	to	offer	that
they	began	to	contemplate	withdrawal.	This	partly	reflected	their	assessment	of
the	world	mercury	market.	Lionel	Davidson’s	confirmation	in	1845	of	the
existence	of	substantial	mercury	deposits	in	Mexico	raised	the	possibility	of
discoveries	elsewhere	in	the	New	World.	(The	price	which	the	Rothschilds	had
to	pay	for	the	mercury	monopoly	crept	up	steadily	from	54.5	pesetas	in	the
beginning	to	70	pesetas	in	1850,	while	the	price	at	which	it	could	be	sold	abroad
began	to	slip	following	these	discoveries.)	With	demand	falling	especially	low	in
the	depressed	economic	conditions	of	1847,	the	Rothschilds	not	unreasonably
expected	the	government	to	improve	its	terms.	For	a	government	which	was
struggling	financially,	the	choice	was	between	maximising	revenue	from	the
mines	and	securing	further	cash	advances	from	the	Rothschilds.	Opting	for	the
former,	the	Minister	elected	to	publish	his	offer,	effectively	ruling	out	further
bargaining.	The	result	was	deadlock,	with	Spanish	requests	for	an	advance	of
£600,000	being	firmly	refused	in	the	absence	of	better	terms	for	the	mercury
contract.	As	James	put	it,	“If	one	could	earn	20	per	cent	then	I	would	be	all	in
favour	of	going	ahead	with	the	deal,	but	as	matters	stand	at	present	we	stand	to
make	only	a	trivial	sum	.	.	.	I	can’t	see	the	big	fortunes	we	stand	to	make	from
this	deal,	nor	why	we	should	invest	our	money	in	such	a	venture	in	these	present

--- Page 491 ---
times.”	By	now,	as	we	shall	see,	James	had	found	more	lucrative	financial
opportunities.
	
“That	Blasted	Country”:	America
The	Rothschilds’	interest	in	Spain	not	only	led	them	to	establish	new	links	with
Cuba,	the	Philippines	and	Mexico.	More	by	accident	than	design,	it	also	led
them	to	establish	a	permanent	agency	in	the	country	which	was	to	emerge	as	the
dominant	force	on	the	other	side	of	the	Atlantic:	the	United	States.	Yet,	despite
its	phenomenal	economic	potential	and	the	furious	pace	of	its	development	after
1820,	America—it	might	as	well	be	said	at	the	outset—was	a	challenge	to	which
the	Rothschilds	never	quite	rose.
The	reason	for	this	has	not	previously	been	explained.	Of	course,	it	was	far
away,	and	in	many	ways	quite	different	in	its	business	culture	from	Europe
—“very	sharp	and	peculiar”	was	the	phrase	once	used	at	New	Court,	a	view
echoed	and	immortalised	by	Dickens	in	
Martin	Chuzzlewit
.	But	the	same	might
easily	be	said	
a	fortiori
	
of	Brazil,	with	which	the	Rothschilds	developed	an
enduring	relationship.	It	has	been	suggested	that	the	American	market	had	been
“sewn	up”	by	the	Barings	before	Rothschilds	arrived	on	the	scene,	and	later
developed	its	own	home-grown	bankers,	like	J.	P.	Morgan,	who	would	ultimately
eclipse	Rothschilds	not	only	in	the	US	but	in	the	world.	Yet	this	too	will	not
quite	do:	the	Rothschilds	proved	on	numerous	occasions	in	the	nineteenth
century	that	they	had	the	financial	muscle	to	oust	even	their	most	powerful	rivals
from	business	they	coveted.	That	they	did	not	do	so	in	America	requires	a	better
explanation.
In	fact,	the	answer	may	partly	lie	in	the	peculiarities	of	American	democracy.
The	Rothschilds,	as	we	have	seen,	always	gave	first	place	to	public	finance	in
their	operations,	and	rarely	conducted	commercial	business	in	a	country	without
also	lending	to	its	government.	However,	this	proved	difficult	in	the	US.	The
federal	system	meant	that	the	financial	needs	of	the	central	government	were
strictly	limited,	while	some	of	the	individual	states	proved	to	be	among	the	least
reliable	creditors	of	the	entire	nineteenth	century.	A	second	and	ultimately	more
serious	obstacle	was	the	American	tradition	of	suspicion	towards	big	banks.	The
Rothschilds	generally	liked	to	have	a	reliable	local	partner	in	their	international
operations,	often	a	national	or	central	bank	in	the	mould	of	the	Bank	of	England
or	the	Banque	de	France.	In	Spain,	that	role	was	played	by	the	Bank	of	San
Fernando.	In	the	United	States,	however,	it	proved	politically	impossible	to
establish	such	an	institution	on	an	enduring	basis.	The	first	Bank	of	the	United

--- Page 492 ---
States	(BUS),	set	up	by	Alexander	Hamilton	in	1791,	expired	twenty	years	later
when	the	Republican-dominated	Congress	refused	to	renew	its	charter	on	the
ground	that	it	was	unconstitutional.	The	second	BUS,	established	in	1816	with	a
capital	of	$25	million,	became	the	focus	of	a	powerful	political	campaign	against
the	“money	power”	which	was	blamed	for	the	deflationary	pressures	of	the
succeeding	years.	Though	it	survived	a	legal	challenge	by	the	state	of	Maryland,
the	Philadelphia-based	bank	fell	victim	to	the	populist	President	Andrew
Jackson,	who	recognised	the	electoral	advantages	of	an	attack	on	the	“monster,”
identified	as	it	was	with	his	rival	Henry	Clay.	When	the	BUS’s	president,
Nicholas	Biddle,	applied	to	have	its	charter	renewed	in	1832	(four	years	earlier
than	was	necessary),	Jackson	vetoed	it,	vowing:	“The	Bank	is	trying	to	kill	me,
but	I	will	kill	it.”	Despite	Biddle’s	effort	to	precipitate	a	financial	panic	in
retaliation,	“Old	Hickory”—Jackson’s	nickname—carried	the	day,	and	in	1836
the	bank	lost	its	public	status,	though	it	continued	to	exist	as	a	state	bank	in
Pennsylvania.	As	we	shall	see,	the	Rothschilds’	instinct	was	to	do	business	with
the	BUS;	but	Jackson’s	attack	fatally	undermined	its	position.	It	should	be	added
that	American	suspicion	of	big	banks	was	allied	to	a	suspicion	of	foreign	banks,
and	especially	Jewish	ones.	No	sooner	had	the	Rothschilds	appeared	on	the
American	scene	than	Governor	McNutt	of	Missisippi	was	denouncing	“Baron
Rothschild”	for	having	“the	blood	of	Judas	and	Shylock	flow[ing]	in	his	veins,
and	.	.	.	unit[ing]	the	qualities	of	both	his	countrymen.”
Rothschild	interest	in	the	US	dates	from	the	early	1830s,	when	an	opportunity
arose	to	arrange	the	payment	of	a	million	pounds	owing	to	the	Treasury	in
Washington	from	France.	This	coup	led	to	the	Rothschilds	replacing	the	Barings
as	the	federal	government’s	London	agents.	At	the	same	time,	Nathan	and	James
began	to	interest	themselves	for	the	first	time	in	American	state	loans	and
commercial	finance.	American	exports	of	cotton	and	tobacco	to	Europe	were
advancing	by	leaps	and	bounds,	and	by	the	mid-1830s	the	London	and	Paris
houses	were	doing	a	considerable	volume	of	business	in	the	bills	generated	by
this	trade,	advancing	substantial	sums	to	a	number	of	American	bankers,	notably
J.	L.	and	S.	I.	Joseph.	In	the	American	financial	crisis	of	1836-7,	they	and	all	the
other	firms	with	which	the	Rothschilds	had	dealings	got	into	serious	difficulties;
and	it	was	at	this	point	that	the	Rothschilds	were	forced	to	make	a	decision	about
the	future	of	their	involvement	in	the	US,	and	above	all	about	the	nature	of	their
representation	there.
The	“appointment”	of	August	Belmont	(originally	Schönberg)	as	the
Rothschilds’	agent	in	New	York	was	an	accident.	Belmont	had	joined	the

--- Page 493 ---
Frankfurt	house	as	an	apprentice	at	the	age	of	fifteen,	and	had	risen	rapidly
through	the	ranks,	getting	up	at	5	a.m.	each	morning	to	improve	his	French,
English	and	arithmetic.	By	1834	he	was	acting	as	secretary	to	one	of	the
partners,	visiting	Paris,	Naples	and	Rome;	and	in	1837	it	was	decided	to	send
him	across	the	Atlantic.	However,	contrary	to	a	report	in	the	
Allgemeine	Zeitung
des	Judenthums
,	the	intention	was	definitely	not	that	Belmont	should	establish
himself	as	the	bank’s	New	York	agent.	His	orders	were	to	take	stock	of	the
financial	crisis	there—to	“let	us	know	what	is	going	on	and	one	can	then	decide
accordingly	what	to	do”—and	then	to	proceed	to	Havana.	This	planned	itinerary
reveals	that,	in	James’s	view,	the	family’s	interests	in	Cuba	were	what	mattered:
as	he	put	it,	quite	apart	from	existing	commitments	there	of	around	£100,000,
“Spain	receives	all	her	income	from	that	land	and	it	is	one	of	the	most	profitable
business	ventures.”	By	contrast,	he	and	his	nephews	had	managed	to	reduce	their
commitments	in	the	US	to	just	£9,000	by	the	end	of	April,	and	James	was
prepared	to	write	this	remainder	off	as	“a	lost	cause.”	The	possibility	of
establishing	a	Rothschild	house	in	New	York	was	not	wholly	ruled	out,	for
James	recognised	the	American	market’s	potential	and	was	convinced	that	there
were	bargains	to	be	snapped	up	from	the	“shipwreck”	left	by	the	banking	crisis;
but	he	evidently	regarded	this	as	a	job	far	in	excess	of	Belmont’s	capabilities.
His	trip	was	intended	to	be	of	short	duration;	indeed,	there	was	not	even	any
question	of	his	taking	over	the	Havana	office.	What	James	really	wanted	was	for
a	Rothschild	to	go	to	America.
But	who?	The	debate	on	this	question	illuminates	the	fundamental	problem
which	was	to	bedevil	the	Rothschilds’	American	policy	for	decades	to	come:	no
one	wanted	to	go	there—witness	James’s	vain	attempts	to	persuade	his	nephews
to	accept	the	mission.	Anthony,	he	claimed,	had	“long	indicated	that	he	would
like	to	go	to	America	[and]	would	gladly	make	use	of	this	opportunity:”
I	am	strongly	urging	him	to	do	so	without	delay.	We	have	so	many	interests	in
that	country	and	in	Havana	that	one	of	us	should	immediately	go	over	there.
However,	I	don’t	believe	that	you,	my	dear	Anselm,	should	go	there.	It	is
Anthony’s	turn	to	do	so.	I	know	very	well	that	it	is	not	a	pleasure	trip	but	the
business	has	to	be	attended	to	and	you,	my	dear	Anselm,	can’t	go	there,	firstly,
because	my	brother	Amschel	is	not	feeling	
well	enough	to	remain	in	Frankfurt
with	my	brother	Carl	this	coming	summer.	The	latter	also	wants	to	take	the
waters	.	.	.	and	thirdly,	you	are	a	married	man	whereas	Anthony	is	a	bachelor	so
that	I	can’t	see	any	reason	whatsoever	why	it	should	not	be	Anthony	rather	than
you	who	should	go.	Well,	I	don’t	have	anyone	here	who	knows	English	.	.	.	I

--- Page 494 ---
think	that	it	will	be	possible	to	earn	a	lot	of	money	in	America.	The	American
funds	which	one	can	sell	in	London	will	be	purchasable	in	America	for	next	to
nothing,	for	no	House	has	any	credit	over	there	and	.	.	.	one	can	earn	some	very
nice	profits.	Well,	once	you	are	in	America	you	can	then	send	Belmont	ahead	of
you	to	Havana	.	.	.	In	short,	my	dear	nephew,	I	urge	you	to	think	it	over	very
carefully	but	whatever	plan	you	decide	to	proceed	with	the	main	thing	is	that	you
do	it	without	any	delays.
For	reasons	which	are	unclear,	this	proposal	was	abandoned	or	rejected,
possibly	because	of	the	opposition	of	Anthony’s	mother.	However,	a	month	later
—and	a	week	and	a	half	after	Belmont	had	reached	New	York—James	tried
again.	“Don’t	you	think,”	he	asked	his	nephews	somewhat	disingenuously,	“that
Belmont	should	go	from	America	to	Havana,	for	our	interests	in	America	are	no
longer	so	substantial?	I	don’t	have	anyone	here	and	if	you	so	want	then	I	will	go
to	America	and	Belmont	can	then	go	to	Havana	for	the	trip	to	America	is	no
great	deal.	It	is	child’s	play.”	If	this	was	intended	to	throw	down	the	gauntlet	to
his	nephews,	it	very	nearly	worked,	to	judge	by	James’s	next	letter:
Well	my	dear	Nat,	you	ask	me	what	I	meant	when	I	said	that	had	I	been	younger
I	would	have	gone	to	Havana	and	whether	I	was	trying	to	give	you	a	subtle	hint.
I	must	therefore	tell	you	quite	frankly	what	my	thoughts	regarding	this	matter
are.	I	would	most	certainly	have	gone	to	Havana	in	person	.	.	.	For	me	personally
this	would	have	been	a	trip	which	I	would	gladly	have	undertaken.	However,	if
one	of	my	nephews	wanted	to	go	there	I	would	then	oppose	such	a	plan	with	all
my	strength	and	my	love	and	would	not	permit	it	for	[Havana]	is	too	far	away
and	too	dangerous	because	of	the	heat	and,	moreover,	it	is	not	important	enough
for	our	business	to	justify	one’s	exposure	to	such	dangers.
This,	of	course,	was	mere	soft	soap.	James	now	came	to	the	point.
However,	America	is	a	different	matter	altogether,	as	the	voyage	there	is
no	less	safe	than	a	voyage	from	Calais	to	Dover	where	one	can	calculate
in	advance	how	many	days	the	trip	will	take.	I	would,	however,	like	to
put	a	question	to	you.	Do	we	or	don’t	we	want	to	get	involved	in	the
American	government’s	business	schemes?	If	the	answer	is	“no”	then	I
too	will	say	that	there	is	no	need	for	anyone	to	go	there	for	we	are	unable
to	make	good	the	losses	suffered	by	Joseph	and	Phillips	and	no	one	there
can	do	anything.	If,	however,	[it	is	“yes”]	in	that	case	then	I	would	say
that	it	is	necessary	to	take	a	close	look	at	the	place	to	see	whether	and

--- Page 495 ---
how	one	can	go	about	doing	business	there	.	.	.	[Q]uite	frankly,	why
should	Anthony	not	go	there,	and	maybe	he	should	be	joined	by	Anselm
if	it	is	thought	that	such	a	trip	would	be	useful	and	beneficial	for	us?	If,
God	forbid,	the	good	and	upright	Hannah	does	not	approve,	then	we
mustn’t	even	think	of	it,	but	to	place	our	trust	entirely	in	the	hands	of
strangers	is	difficult	.	.	.	I	am	not	at	all	opposed	to	the	idea	of	establishing
a	company	for	the	American	business	but	can	such	a	project	
be	realised,
that	is,	to	set	up	a	business	house	with	associates	who	are	in	fact	not
responsible?	Won’t	the	established	Houses	there	be	given	preference	and
won’t	those	people	who	agree	to	join	us	perhaps	simply	skim	the	cream
off	for	themselves	although	we	could	do	the	same	and	get	the	best
morsels?
The	Rothschilds	never	satisfactorily	answered	these	questions.	Despite
James’s	reassurances	that	they	would	only	be	expected	to	stay	for	“three	to	six
months,”	neither	Nat,	Anthony	or	Mayer	went	to	New	York;	and,	although
James’s	sons	Alphonse	and	Salomon	visited	the	US	some	years	later,	they	did
not	stay.	The	fundamental	problem	was	that	while	it	was	James	who	had	the
enthusiasm	for	America,	his	nephews	conducted	most	of	the	family’s	business
with	the	US,	because	Britain	was	always	a	bigger	customer	for	American	cotton
and	tobacco	than	France.	James	therefore	had	to	defer	to	his	nephews’	greater
familiarity	with	the	American	market,	even	when	he	felt	that	they	were	passing
up	a	crucial	opportunity.	As	he	frequently	admitted:	“America	is	more	suited	to
England	than	it	is	to	France.”	(This	imbalance	between	the	London	and	Paris
houses	also	gave	rise	to	persistent	friction	as	to	the	distribution	of	profits—and
losses.)
As	a	result,	the	decisions	which	determined	the	nature	of	their	representation
in	America	for	the	rest	of	the	century	were	taken	by	the	man	on	the	spot.	Despite
James’s	repeated	orders,	Belmont	did	not	go	to	Cuba.	Instead,	and	to	the	intense
but	impotent	irritation	of	his	masters,	he	acquired	an	office	at	78	Wall	Street	and
announced	the	establishment	of	August	Belmont	&	Co.,	with	the	plan	of	acting
as	the	Rothschild	agent	there.	“We	received	a	letter	from	Belmont,”	reported	a
furious	James,	“but	I	didn’t	have	the	patience	to	read	it”:
He	is	a	stupid	young	man	.	.	.	and	we	are	not	so	desperate	for	new	business	and
would	rather	sort	the	old	business	matters	out	so	that	there	is	no	need	for	anyone
to	go	to	America.	That	is,	and	remains,	our	opinion	as	far	as	our	dependence	on
a	scoundrel	such	as	Belmont	is	concerned.	Instead	of	going	to	Philadelphia	to

--- Page 496 ---
collect	the	300,000	francs	from	Cohen	he	says,	“I	shall	remain	in	New	York.”
Such	an	ass	needs	to	be	kept	on	a	short	leash.
Nevertheless,	James	found	he	had	little	option	but	to	reply,	and	a	regular	corre
pondence	commenced	in	September.	When	Belmont	requested	the	right	to
discount	bills	(presumably	in	the	Rothschild	name),	James	was	unable	to	refuse:
“He	writes	every	day	that	he	wants	to	get	the	authority	to	discount	which	I	well
understand	and	the	man	is	quite	right.	If	one	says	‘A’	then	one	must	also	say	‘B’
[a	favourite	James	turn	of	phrase],	though	it	is	always	dangerous	to	do	so.”	The
following	month	it	was	agreed	to	increase	his	salary	to	£500,	paid	jointly	by	the
London	and	Paris	houses.	By	the	1840s	he	had	a	credit	facility	with	the	London
house	of	£10,000.	When	Belmont	wished	to	increase	that	limit,	he	threatened	to
start	doing	business	for	other	houses.
The	Rothschilds	never	quite	forgave	Belmont	for	taking	such	a	profoundly
important	initiative,	and	never	ceased	to	regard	him	as	unreliable	(feelings	not
alleviated	by	his	involvement	in	a	duel	in	1841	and	his	conversion,	evidently	for
the	sake	of	social	advancement,	to	Christianity).	“We	received	letters	today	from
Belmont,”	wrote	Anthony	in	August	1838,	“which	frighten	us	tremendously.
How	can	
the	man	be	so	mad	as	to	think	of	doing	the	things	that	he	is	doing	.	.	.	I
should	not	mind	going	out	myself	.	.	.	if	you	think	my	presence	there	can	be	of
use	I	will	go	for	I	then	can	write	to	Anselm	to	come	here	.	.	.	I	don’t	think	that
any	person	is	justified	in	doing	what	he	has	been	without	asking.”	Two	months
later	James	accused	Belmont	of	playing	the	London	and	Paris	houses	off	against
one	another,	giving	his	favour	“today	.	.	.	to	the	English	House	and	tomorrow	to
the	Parisian	House.”	“I	think	Belmont	is	a	great	ass,”	declared	Nat	in	1840.	“He
treats	business	so	lightly	that	I	do	not	like	him	at	all	as	an	agent.”	He	was	“too
great	a	cripple	to	leave	New	York	&	we	have	been	so	uniformly	unlucky	in
everything	he	has	had	the	management	of.”	James	agreed:	“I	don’t	have	too
much	confidence	in	that	man	Belmont,”	he	commented,	“because	.	.	.	he	deals
only	for	himself.”	There	were	fitful	efforts	to	replace	him,	or	at	least	to	control
him	better	by	sending	an	additional	agent,	as	Anselm	suggested	(following
reports	that	Belmont	was	evincing	suicidal	tendencies).	In	1839	Lionel	Davidson
was	despatched	to	New	York,	presumably	for	this	purpose.	“He	seems	a	clever
intelligent	fellow,”	commented	Nat,	implying	a	favourable	comparison	with
Belmont,	“and	will	do	very	well	if	you	can	manage	to	keep	him	down”—a
phrase	which	tells	us	much	about	the	Rothschilds’	attitude	towards	their	agents.
However,	it	made	more	sense	to	send	him	on	to	Mexico	and	the	American	West,
while	Hanau,	who	was	sent	in	1843,	went	to	New	Orleans.	Belmont	remained

--- Page 497 ---
ensconced	in	New	York,	and	was	soon	embarked	on	a	political	career	which
would	take	him	to	the	commanding	heights	of	the	Democrat	Party.
The	debate	over	the	American	agency	thus	exposed	a	fundamental	conflict	of
interests	between	the	London	and	Paris	houses,	and	revealed	the	limits	of
James’s	power	over	his	nephews.	There	is	little	doubt	as	to	who	was	right:	in
refusing	to	establish	a	Rothschild	house	in	New	York,	the	English	Rothschilds
made	what	must	have	been	the	single	greatest	strategic	error	in	the	bank’s
history.	On	the	other	hand,	it	is	easy	to	see	why	they	hesitated.	For	even	the
limited	involvement	in	the	American	market	symbolised	by	Belmont’s
grudgingly	conceded	role	as	agent	very	soon	cost	the	Rothschilds	dear.	And	it	is
doubtful	whether	Anthony	or	Nat,	in	Belmont’s	place,	would	have	been	able	to
avoid	the	disaster	which	lay	ahead.
Even	before	Belmont	arrived	in	New	York,	an	irresistibly	tempting
opportunity	had	arisen	for	the	Rothschilds	to	step	into	another	niche	vacated	by
Alexander	Baring.	The	Bank	of	the	United	States	had	employed	Barings	as	its
European	agent;	but	the	relationship	broke	down	in	1836-7,	and	the	Rothschilds
hurried	to	offer	their	services.	Biddle	had	ambitious-sounding	plans,	including	“a
business	with	a	guarantee	of	two	million	pounds	sterling	to	provide	advances	for
goods	and	stocks,”	and	a	scheme	for	a	quasi-monopoly	on	cotton	exports.	It
seemed	to	James	like	a	financial	marriage	made	in	heaven:	these	were,	he
enthused,	“the	wealthiest	people	in	America”	and	“no	less	solid”	than	the
Banque	de	France.	At	once,	he	began	to	imagine	“flooding	the	American
market”	with	his	Spanish	mercury	“so	that	in	six	months	time	we	will	be	masters
of	the	market.”
At	first	the	partnership	with	the	BUS	went	well.	The	Rothschilds	found
themselves	on	the	receiving	end	of	large	quantities	of	American	state	bonds	from
not	only	New	York	but	also	newer	states	like	Indiana,	Alabama,	Missouri	and
even	Michigan,	which	had	only	just	been	admitted	into	the	Union,	as	well	as
shares	in	a	number	of	new	banks	and	a	canal	company.	However,	by	September
1839	James	and	his	nephews	were	beginning	to	discern	why	Barings	had	parted
company	with	
BUS	when	they	had.	Without	its	charter	and	its	government
business,	the	BUS	was	vulnerable;	when	the	American	cotton	crop	proved	poor,
it	began	to	look	seriously	over-extended,	its	capital	tied	up	in	all	kinds	of	long-
term	ventures,	its	managers	reliant	on	the	sale	of	high-yield	obligations,	post
notes	(promissory	notes	due	in	six	months	time)	and	foreign	drafts.	In	order	to
secure	money	from	the	Rothschilds,	the	BUS’s	agent	in	Europe,	Samuel	Jaudon,
warned	that	he	might	be	unable	to	meet	his	acceptances.	Uncomfortably	aware

--- Page 498 ---
that	their	advances	to	him	now	totalled	some	£300,000—“upon	stock	which	it
would	be	most	difficult	to	dispose	of”—James	and	his	nephews	had	little	option
but	to	bail	Jaudon	out.	Reluctantly,	they	agreed	to	take	over	BUS	drafts	on
Hottinguer	worth	5.5	million	francs	(£220,000),	though	it	was	hoped	to	pass	the
buck	to	other	investors	by	selling	BUS	debentures.	James	raised	objections	to
this,	arguing	that	the	Rothschilds’	reputation	would	suffer	if	the	BUS	were	to
collapse	“You	make	yourselves	
uneasy
	about	nothing	at	all,”	Lionel	assured	him:
Every	person	knows	upon	what	security	these	Debentures	are	issued	and	if	they
are	not	paid,	it	is	not	our	fault.—I	think	it	the	greatest	madness	in	the	world	to
give	a	sort	of	moral	guarantee,	that	a	stock	which	pays	10	to	20	per	cent
Int[erest]	will	be	punctually	paid,	the	purchaser	must	take	his	chance	and	must
know	that	he	is	running	some	risk	.	.	.	[Even]	if	we	take	the	very	blackest	side	.	.
.	I	am	still	of	the	same	opinion	in	thinking	that	we	have	got	very	well	out	of	a
nasty	affair	and	that	we	ought	to	be	delighted	to	get	our	money	back	so	easily.
This	revealed	a	streak	of	ruthlessness	of	which,	one	suspects,	his	father	would
have	approved.	Moreover,	as	Nat	pointed	out,	it	had	been	James	who	had
originally	urged	their	involvement	with	the	BUS:
You	appear	to	forget	that	it	was	the	Paris	house	that	accepted	the	5,500,000
francs	[from	Jaudon]	in	direct	opposition	to	our	letters	&	wishes,	you	also	forget
that	it	was	the	Paris	house	and	not	us	who	encouraged	Belmont	to	do	business	to
such	an	extent	and	now	after	we	try	[moving]	heaven	&	earth	to	get	our	money
back	by	issuing	a	marketable	security	.	.	.	you	write	to	us	as	if	by	your	issuing	a
similar	lot	of	debentures	you	run	the	risk	of	losing	your	good	name	in	the	event
of	their	not	being	reimbursed.
Nothing	could	better	illustrate	the	conflict	of	interests	and	attitudes	exposed	by
the	American	question—a	conflict	which	continued	throughout	the	next	year.
Yet	James’s	pessimism	was	justified;	for	in	October	1839	the	BUS	suspended
payments	and	in	1841	finally	collapsed.	Its	failure	coincided	with	a	rash	of
defaults	by	states,	including	a	number	whose	bonds	Jaudon	had	handed	over	as
securities.	In	the	wake	of	this	fiasco,	which	saddled	the	London	and	Paris	houses
with	a	large	quantity	of	thoroughly	bad	debts,	the	Rothschilds	were	content	to
hand	back	to	Barings	the	position	of	bankers	to	the	federal	government:	“You
may	tell	your	government,”	James	was	reported	as	telling	representatives	of	the
US	Treasury,	“that	you	have	seen	the	man	who	is	at	the	head	of	the	finances	of
Europe,	and	that	he	has	told	you	that	you	cannot	borrow	a	dollar,	not	a	dollar.”

--- Page 499 ---
The	experience	with	the	BUS	had	made	James	wish	he	had	had	“never	become
involved	with	[America].”	In	future,	he	concluded,	unless	the	federal
government	were	“prepared	to	guarantee	all	
the	States	and	make	the	payments
with	us”	and	to	set	up	an	officially	backed	central	bank,	he	would	keep	his
distance.	This	was	a	view	which	his	nephews	more	than	endorsed.	In	1842
Anthony	wrote	to	his	brothers,	urging	them	to	sell	“New	Yorks	&	all	the
[American]	stocks	which	pay	an	interest”:
You	may	be	certain	it	will	be	the	same	with	all	the	states	.	.	.	none	will	pay	any
Interest	&	therefore	follow	my	advice—let	us	get	out	of	them	that	we	can—with
them	that	we	cannot	get	out	[of]	we	must	make	up	our	mind,	but	follow	my
advice	&	let	us	get	rid	of	that	blasted	country—as	much	as	we	profitably	can.	It
is	the	most	blasted	&	the	most	stinking	country	in	the	world—&	we	must	get	rid
of	it,	&	that	stinking	Belmont	in	the	Bargain.
Of	course,	such	drastic	disengagement	did	not	occur:	even	as	they	were	winding
up	the	sorry	remains	of	the	BUS	loan,	the	Rothschilds	were	resuming	their
dealings	in	American	cotton	and	tobacco	(hence	the	need	to	send	Hanau	to	New
Orleans).	And	the	project	of	sending	a	Rothschild	in	person	to	the	United	States
was	revived,	as	we	shall	see,	in	1848.	Nevertheless,	the	scars	left	by	the	BUS
affair	are	the	best	explanation	we	have	for	the	lingering	suspicion	of	the
American	economy	which	characterised	subsequent	Rothschild	policy.
	
	
Trouble	in	Threadneedle	Street
The	negative	repercussions	of	the	American	crisis	did	not	end	there,	however.
For	the	financial	crisis	of	1836-9	also	strained	to	breaking	point	relations
between	the	Rothschilds	and	the	Bank	of	England.	This	was,	to	say	the	least,	a
difficult	time	for	the	Bank	of	England.	In	Britain,	the	deflationary	tendency
which	had	been	manifest	since	the	1825	crash	continued	more	or	less	unabated:
the	Bank’s	note	circulation	declined	almost	without	interruption	between	1825
and	1840,	reflecting	in	part	the	restrictive	effect	of	the	bullionist	system	in	the
absence	of	major	gold	discoveries.	At	the	same	time,	the	American	financial
crisis	played	havoc	with	the	international	payments	system,	drawing	both	gold
and	silver	across	the	Atlantic.	The	Rothschilds	found	themselves	torn	between
the	need	to	sustain	their	new	American	commitments	and	intense	pressure	from
both	the	Bank	of	England	and	the	Banque	de	France	to	maintain	liquidity	in

--- Page 500 ---
Europe.
The	trouble	began	at	the	time	of	the	brothers’	fateful	Frankfurt	summit	in
1836.	From	the	outset	of	the	American	crisis,	James	and	the	ailing	Nathan	urged
Nat	“not	to	let	the	people	drive	you	round	the	bend	and	convince	you	not	to	send
any	gold	[just]	because	this	might	meet	with	the	disapproval	of	the	Governor.
You	should	always	take	into	consideration	that	whatever	you	don’t	do,	others
will	not	hesitate	to	do.	Was	Baring	too	timid	to	take	some	gold	out	for
America?”	“Send	Gold	as	long	as	it	answers,”	echoed	Lionel,	“and	[do]	not
bother	yourself	with	the	Governor	of	the	Bank	but	pay	him	off.”	This	was	an
allusion	to	the	fact	that	the	London	house	owed	the	Bank	at	least	£300,000,
money	borrowed	in	December	1835	and	not	due	for	repayment	until	October,	as
well	as	a	short-term	advance	of	£120,000	negotiated	on	June	1	“in	consequence
of	a	pressure	on	the	Money	Market.”	On	returning	to	Paris,	James	promptly
committed	himself	to	supplying	the	Banque	de	France	with	silver,	while
expressing	scathing	criticism	of	the	Governor	in	London	for	allowing	his	own
gold	reserve	to	sink	so	low.	It	was	not	until	the	end	of	November	that	he	
acted	to
send	gold	to	London.	Not	long	after	that	he	was	alarmed	by	a	rumour	to	the
effect	that
your	Government	wants	to	try	to	introduce	a	silver	standard	as	is	the	case	with
gold.	I	would	consider	this	a	great	misfortune	for	Europe	.	.	.	If	England	were	to
do	the	same	[gold	would	flow]	from	here	over	there	and	this	will	bring	about	a
crisis	everywhere.	I	think	we	have	to	do	everything	in	our	power	to	prevent	such
a	move.
What	he	meant,	of	course,	was	that	it	would	be	a	great	misfortune	for	
France
if	England	began	to	compete	with	her	for	silver	as	a	reserve	metal:	when	the
Bank	did	start	buying	silver	in	the	summer	of	1837,	James	immediately
threatened	to	stop	sending	gold	to	London.	On	the	other	hand,	he,	James,
accused	the	Bank	of	indecision	when	his	offers	of	gold	(at	a	price)	were	not
immediately	accepted:	the	Governor,	he	complained,	“changed	his	mind	from
day	to	day	and	tomorrow	he	may	think	differently	again.”	Worse,	he	seemed	to
be	ignoring	James’s	advice	“that	under	no	circumstances	should	he	allow	any
American	House	to	collapse.”	Timothy	Curtis,	the	former	Governor	of	the	Bank,
wrote	an	emollient	letter,	assuring	James	of	his	“sincere	wish	to	co-operate	with
your	nephews	in	everything	relating	to	the	foreign	exchange”	and	“to	act	as
nearly	we	can	in	union	with	your	House,”	but	firmly	insisting	that	“it	is	your
interest	as	well	as	ours	that	the	Bank	should	possess	a	good	portion	of	silver.”

--- Page 501 ---
The	damage	was	done:	by	March	the	following	year	James	was	convinced	that
“your	English	Bank	is	out	to	destroy	our	business.”	Nor	was	the	fence	mended
by	a	loan	by	the	Bank	to	the	London	house	of	£200,000	in	silver	dollars	the
following	December.
The	culmination	of	this	feud	came	in	1839,	when	the	Bank	of	England	turned
to	the	Banque	de	France	for	assistance	in	replenishing	its	reserve,	now	reduced
by	the	American	crisis	to	£3.7	million.	When	he	heard	that	the	Governor	of	the
Banque,	comte	d’Argout,	was	offering	assistance,	James	was	initially	wholly
opposed:
The	French	Bank	has	already	been	trying	for	a	long	time	to	reach	an
understanding	with	the	English	because,	purely	out	of	a	sense	of	pride,	they	want
to	be	able	to	claim	that	England	is	in	debt	to	them,	but	where	would	things	be	if,
God	forbid,	war	were	to	break	out?	What	would	happen	if	France	were	to
require	money?	Would	the	English	Bank	then	open	its	coffers	and	come	to	the
aid	of	the	French?	I	read	in	the	newspapers	that	the	two	Banks	are	trying	to	reach
an	understanding	and	that	is	why	I	am	writing	to	you	about	this	matter.	Our	own
interests	are	very	much	against	this	scheme	succeeding	and	we	must	therefore	do
everything	we	can	to	frustrate	its	success.
Despite	the	entreaties	of	the	Banque’s	Deputy	Governor	“that	a	House	like	ours
which	has	rendered	eminent	service	to	the	Bank	of	England	ought	to	take	part	in
the	intended	operation,”	James	and	Anselm	were	unyielding.	And	to	reinforce
the	resolve	of	his	cousins	in	London,	Anselm	added	an	intimidating	postscript:
Do	not	take	any	rash	step	in	a	large	operation.	Your	mother	tells	me	that	Herries
told	your	good	father	in	her	presence	to	mind	and	not	trust	the	Bank	without	any
guarantees	.	.	.	as	the	Bank	being	involved	in	difficulties	may	
stop
	suddenly.
Mind,	you	are	not	your	good	father	and	do	not	
have	his	influence,	and	he	was
capable	of	acting	in	other	ways	than	prudence	would	direct	you.
The	point	was	echoed	by	Hannah	herself	a	few	days	later:	“I	would	not	advance
any	thing	to	the	Bank	without	having	Exchequer	Bills	or	any	other	Government
security	for	it	is	absolutely	necessary	to	be	well	prepared	and	to	have	a	sufficient
supply	of	available	property.	I	do	not	forget	a	former	event	when	Herries	was
very	apprehensive	of	a	stoppage	of	the	Bank.”
Did	the	Rothschilds	really	believe	that	the	Bank	of	England	might	be	about	to
suspend	payments?	It	seems	unlikely.	What	was	really	at	issue	was	whether	the
Banque	and	Bank	between	them	could	resolve	a	monetary	crisis	without

--- Page 502 ---
recourse	to	Rothschilds.	However,	if	James	thought	a	Rothschild	boycott	would
suffice	to	undermine	the	agreement	reached	between	Curtis	and	d’Argout,	he
was	badly	mistaken.	Realising	that	the	deal	was	unstoppable	and	that	the	profits
would	be	substantial,	he	was	forced	to	execute	an	abrupt	volte-face,	now
resolving	“to	go	into	the	business	with	the	Bank	as	far	as	I	possibly	can.”	He	had
left	it	too	late,	and	the	business	was	entrusted	to	Barings	and	a	consortium	of
Paris	houses.
5
	This	was	the	last	straw	for	James:
[In	1825]	we	arranged	for	such	large	quantities	of	gold	to	be	brought	in	and
thereby	saved	the	Bank,	and	now	it	is	Baring	who	is	the	recipient	of	everything.
The	Bank	should	at	least	share	[the	business]	out	.	.	.	so	that	the	business	is
properly	distributed	.	.	.	You	have	no	other	defender	at	the	Bank	than	that	man
Curtis	who	is	a	two-faced	scoundrel	.	.	.	If	gold	should	go	out,	and	it	is	no
different	to	Paris,	then	I	will	most	certainly	give	preference	to	gold	and	[this
time]	I	won’t	say,	“I	don’t	want	to	do	it	because	of	the	Bank.”	No!	On	the	one
hand	I	will	make	it	clear	that	if	we	have	an	interest	in	the	deal	we	will	do
everything	to	be	of	service	to	the	Bank	but	on	the	other	hand	they	will	treat	us
with	respect	.	.	.	Only	if	we	engage	in	a	lot	of	wheeling	and	dealing	can	we	stay
in	the	public	eye	and	make	ourselves	an	object	of	fear.	Baring	can’t	say,	“I	won’t
give	Rothschild	anything.”
This,	however,	was	bluster.	Although	James	talked	of	spoiling	the	market	for
the	bills	on	London	Baring	would	need	to	buy,	he	knew	full	well	that,	with	the
Bank	of	England	as	Baring’s	client,	“everyone	will	therefore	lick	his	backside	to
get	the	business.”	There	was	no	realistic	way	of	starting	a	“war	with	the	Bank,	at
least	not	for	the	time	being,”	because,	as	he	had	to	admit,	“they	are	stronger	than
us.”	All	he	could	do	was	ruefully	assess	what	had	gone	wrong	and	fantasise
about	revenge:
As	far	as	the	Bank	of	England	is	concerned,	when	the	time	comes	and	it	is	in	our
power	to	do	so	then	we	can	show	them	that	it	is	a	lot	better	to	maintain	friendly
relations	with	us.	I	don’t	know	whether	I	should	not	perhaps	write	to	Curtis	that
we	would	prefer	not	to	renew	the	£5,000	next	time	round	[possibly	a	reference	to
a	private	loan	to	Curtis].	This	will	need	some	very	careful	thought	given	to	it	for
it	will	doubtless	result	in	him	bearing	an	enormous	grudge	against	us.	Indeed,
over	the	recent	past	he	has	not	shown	himself	to	have	been	too	great	a	friend	of
ours	and	had	it	not	been	for	the	English	House	I	would	not	have	cared	the	least
for	his	friendship	.	.	.	[I]t	would	perhaps	have	been	smarter	if	at	the	
time	we	had
given	him	a	small	share	of	the	commission	from	the	Bank	and	this	would	have

--- Page 503 ---
been	a	lot	better	than	everything	else.	The	man	is	a	businessman	just	like	us	and
purely	out	of	a	sense	of	friendship	people	don’t	always	treat	us	preferentially.
Although	there	were	half-hearted	attempts	to	re-establish	links	towards	the	end
of	the	year,	the	damage	had	been	done.	“I	am	not	prepared	to	run	after	the
Deputy	Governor	and	lick	his	backside,”	declared	James	as	the	negotiations	over
the	BUS	dragged	on.	In	1843,	after	a	period	of	more	or	less	frozen	relations,
Lionel	closed	the	Rothschild	account	at	the	Bank	of	England.
In	truth,	the	row	had	been	allowed	to	grow	out	of	all	proportion:	as	Nat
sensibly	observed	in	its	aftermath,	“I	think	the	only	advantage	of	a	[central]	bank
is	in	being	able	to	get	out	money	whenever	you	want	it	&	that	it	is	folly	to	care
about	what	people	say.”	In	his	determination	to	get	the	better	of	Baring	and	to
establish	the	Rothschilds	in	a	pre-eminent	position	in	the	United	States,	James
had	lost	sight	of	that.	The	net	result	of	his	enthusiasm	for	America—an
enthusiasm	his	nephews	had	never	wholly	shared—had	been	a	large	amount	of
bad	debts	from	the	defunct	Bank	of	the	United	States;	and	a	comparable	quantity
of	bad	feeling	at	the	Bank	of	England.

--- Page 504 ---
FOURTEEN
Between	Retrenchment	and	Rearmament	(1840)
Monsieur	Rothschild	knows	Europe	prince	by	prince	and	the	bourse	courtier	by
courtier.	He	carries	all	their	bank	balances	in	his	head,	those	of	the	courtiers	as
well	as	those	of	the	kings;	he	can	tell	them	how	they	stand	without	consulting	his
books.	He	says	to	one	such:	“Your	account	will	go	into	the	red	if	you	appoint	that
minister.”
	“
—MICHELET
	
	
	
	
In	the	troubled	years	immediately	after	the	1830	revolution,	James	and	his
brothers	had	constantly	urged	the	great	powers	to	avoid	war.	To	say	that	they
were	successful	in	this	would	be,	as	we	have	seen,	to	exaggerate	their	influence
over	great	power	diplomacy;	nevertheless,	the	fact	remains	that	the	Rothschilds
got	what	they	wanted:	peace.	Yet	there	was	a	fundamental	paradox	at	the	heart	of
Rothschild	pacifism.	For	governments	which	heeded	their	advice	and	avoided
international	confrontation	were	in	a	position	to	curtail	their	military
expenditures—and	therefore	to	dispense	with	the	need	for	new	loans.	This	meant
that	in	the	years	after	1833	all	the	major	powers	effectively	ceased	to	be
Rothschild	clients.	Peace	seemed	to	be	making	the	five	houses	redundant.
This	was	especially	obvious	in	Prussia,	where	the	need	for	new	loans	had
more	or	less	been	eliminated.	With	revenues	rising	from	the	new	Customs	Union
(Zollverein)	founded	in	1834,	and	expenditure	static	or	falling,	Prussia	was	able
to	halve	the	proportion	of	total	expenditure	which	went	on	debt	service	from	22
per	cent	in	1821	to	11	per	cent	in	1850.	Having	been	more	than	three	times	the
size	of	total	annual	revenue,	public	debt	was	just	twice	as	much	by	mid	century.
Thus,	when	negotiations	resumed	in	1844	to	complete	the	process	of	converting

--- Page 505 ---
the	old	1818	sterling	loan	into	lower-interest,	thaler-denominated	bonds,
Rothschild	hopes	that	this	might	pave	the	way	to	a	new	loan	were	unrealistic.
Their	old	friend	Rother	no	longer	needed	them.
In	Britain	too,	the	period	before	1848	saw	public	borrowing	dwindle	to
nothing.	The	1835	loan	to	compensate	the	slave-owners	in	the	West	Indies	was
the	last	major	
loan	issued	by	a	British	government	before	the	Crimean	War.	This
reflected	above	all	the	liberal	reformation	of	British	public	finances	associated
with	the	career	of	Sir	Robert	Peel	as	Conservative	leader.	In	the	years	after	1835,
the	Whig	government	came	under	scathing	attack	from	Peel	for	running	what
were,	in	view	of	the	economic	circumstances	of	the	mid-1830s,	very	trifling
deficits.	Altogether	in	the	five	years	1836	to	1841	the	government’s	net
borrowing	came	to	around	£4	million.	However,	there	was	a	hand-to-mouth
quality	to	the	way	this	was	done	which	strengthened	Peel’s	case,	as	did	the	fact
that	much	of	the	excess	of	expenditure	over	receipts	could	be	blamed	on	a
variety	of	overseas	“adventures.”	The	1839	funding	operation	involving	£5
million	of	exchequer	bills,	which	the	London	Rothschilds	happily	monopolised,
was	a	case	in	point.	Peel’s	remedy	on	coming	to	power	after	his	sweeping
election	victory	in	1841	was	the	product	of	two	decades	of	reflection	on	the
fiscal	and	monetary	implications	of	liberal	doctrine,	and	had	four	aspects.	Firstly,
and	most	conventionally,	he	carried	out	a	conversion	operation,	reducing	the
interest	on	£250	million	of	stock	from	3.5	to	3.25	per	cent.	Secondly,	and
unprece	dentedly,	he	secured	the	reintroduction	of	income	tax	(at	a	flat	rate	of	7d
in	the	pound	on	incomes	above	£150),	hitherto	regarded	as	a	wartime	expedient.
Thirdly,	developing	a	conception	of	monetary	policy	which	dated	back	to	the
1819	committee	he	himself	had	chaired,	he	redrafted	the	Bank	of	England’s
Charter	in	an	effort	to	perfect	the	working	of	the	bullionist	system.	Finally,
following	the	practice	initiated	by	Huskisson	in	the	1820s	and	in	conformity
with	the	classical	economists’	principle	of	
laissez-faire
,	he	stepped	up	the	pace
of	trade	liberalisation,	reducing	the	number	of	duties	on	imports.	Altogether	605
import	duties	were	repealed	between	1842	and	1846	and	a	further	1,035	were
reduced.	The	logical	culmination	of	this	process	was	the	repeal	of	the	Corn
Laws,	a	step	which	the	majority	of	Peel’s	own	backbenchers,	with	their
pronounced	agrarian	interests,	regarded	as	a	betrayal	of	commitments	made	by
them	to	their	rural	constituents	during	the	1841	election	campaign.
With	hindsight,	this	programme	of	reforms	was	less	coherent	than	it	appeared
to	Peel	at	the	time.	Quite	apart	from	its	politically	self-destructive	quality	(by	no
means	unique	in	nineteenth-century	British	history),	its	economic	consequences

--- Page 506 ---
were	far	from	comfortable,	even	by	the	standards	of	what	has	been	called	the
“Age	of	Atonement.”	Theoretically,	lower	import	duties,	by	increasing	the
volume	of	trade,	were	supposed	to	generate	additional	income.	But	this	was
unlikely	to	happen	under	the	depressed	conditions	of	the	1840s,	which	the	Bank
Charter	Act	tended	to	aggravate	by	restricting	domestic	banknote	circulation	as
the	Bank	of	England’s	gold	reserve	declined.	As	a	result,	the	income	tax—
supposedly	a	temporary	measure—soon	began	to	look	more	like	a	permanent
fact	of	life,	even	if	Peel’s	ideological	heir,	Gladstone,	never	quite	gave	up	hope
of	doing	away	with	it.	Nor	was	Peel	able	to	set	the	nation	on	the	course	of	debt
redemption	which	he	had	intended:	it	was	not	until	1844-5	that	the	government
was	able	to	eliminate	the	deficit,	and	it	proved	possible	to	run	surpluses	for	just
three	consecutive	years	before	the	1847-8	crisis	put	the	government	back	in	the
red.	Nevertheless,	there	was	no	denying	the	“soundness”	of	Peelite	finance	at	the
time:	indeed,	it	set	the	benchmark	of	fiscal	and	monetary	orthodoxy	for	the	rest
of	the	nineteenth	century.	The	price	of	3	per	cent	consols	rose	from	87	in
October	1841	to	101	just	over	three	years	later,	a	clear	indication	of	City
approval.
It	was	still	possible,	on	the	other	hand,	for	bankers	to	grumble	about	the
medicine	they	were	being	given,	even	when	they	knew	it	was	doing	the	nation’s
finances	good.	It	is	significant	in	this	context	that,	as	early	as	1830,	Peel	had
conceived	a	revived	income	tax	as	a	way	of	“reach[ing]	such	men	as	Baring,	his
[Peel’s]	father,	Rothschild,	and	others,	as	well	as	absentees	[from]	Ireland	.	.	.	to
reconcile	the	lower	with	the	higher	classes	and	to	diminish	the	burthen	of
taxation	on	the	poor	man.”	The	Rothschilds	were	less	than	pleased	when	they
were	duly	“reached”	in	1842.	Of	course,	they	had	other	reasons	for	feeling
hostile	to	Peel’s	government.	Not	only	were	the	Tories	opposed	to	Jewish
emancipation,	but	the	advent	of	a	Tory	ministry	threatened	to	revive	the
possibility	of	an	Anglo-Russian	alliance	against	liberal	France.	Still,	Rothschild
opposition	to	Peel’s	fiscal	policy	was	pronounced	from	the	outset,	and	the	main
reason	seems	to	have	been	the	income	tax.
While	Nat	could	see	the	advantages	of	balancing	the	budget,	and	rightly
foresaw	the	rise	in	consols	which	would	follow	it,	he	disliked	the	means	Peel
had	adopted.	He	anticipated	practical	difficulties	in	assessment,	for	example.
“How	will	it	be	possible,”	he	mused	shortly	after	Peel’s	Chancellor	Goulborn
had	unveiled	his	first	budget,	“for	the	tax	collectors	to	ascertain	the	real	incomes
of	merchants	&	bankers	who	by	and	large	do	not	know	themselves	what	they	can
term	their	income	until	their	balances	are	made?”	A	year	later	he	candidly	asked

--- Page 507 ---
his	brothers	whether,	in	preparing	their	tax	return,	“you	value	all	the	stock	at	the
market	price	and	add	the	increased	price	to	your	profit	or	whether	you	take
unrealized	stock	at	the	valuation	of	last	year	&	pay	only	upon	realized	profits	&
real	income?”—a	question	which	reveals	some	of	the	difficulties	inherent	in
taxing	men	like	the	Rothschilds,	whose	approach	to	accounting	had	always	been
quite	cavalier.	“It	is	a	most	disagreeable	business	with	yr	stinking	tax
gentlemen,”	he	wrote	in	early	1844,	“&	particularly	if	you	have	to	show	yr
books	to	the	commissioners—let	me	know	how	yr	balance	is,	I	recommend	your
taking	no	profit	in	the	account	upon	unsold	stock.”
This	is	not	to	suggest	that	the	Rothschilds	contemplated	tax	evasion:	on	the
contrary,	Nat	advised	his	brothers	“most	strongly	to	give	[the	Commissioners	of
the	Income	Tax]	an	exact	amount	of	the	profits	.	.	.	a	few	hundred	pounds	more
or	less	[in]	charges	is	of	little	consequence,	whilst	it	would	be	terribly
disagreeable	to	be	fined	or	even	blamed	by	the	gents	in	offices.”	They	were	only
too	well	aware	that	“the	amount	in	question”	would	be	one	“of	serious	import	to
the	Revenue.”	Rather,	their	anxieties	related	to	the	possible	unintended	side-
effects	of	the	new	tax.	Their	biggest	concern	was	that,	if	earnings	from	foreign
investments	were	taxed,	bondholders	would	switch	to	domestic	investments—a
worrying	prospect	for	a	bank	which	specialised	in	capital	export.	“I	think	my
dear	Lionel,”	Nat	urged	from	Paris,	“you	ought	to	make	strong	representations	to
the	government	about	charging	the	income	tax	upon	all	coupons	of	foreign
bonds	paid	in	London	.	.	.	it	is	a	great	pity	&	will	in	a	good	measure	stop
business.”	At	the	very	least,	the	fact	that	British	(but	not	foreign)	holders
henceforth	paid	tax	on	their	income	from	foreign	bonds	seemed	likely	to	tempt
some	clients	to	do	business	through	the	Rothschilds	under	bogus	foreign	names.
The	advent	of	income	tax—a	model	which	James	feared	would	soon	be	adopted
in	other	countries—seemed	to	herald	an	end	to	the	golden	age	when
governments	had	borrowed	from	capitalists	like	the	Rothschilds	and	their	clients,
rather	than	taxing	them.
Even	in	Austria	and	France,	where	such	an	overhaul	of	the	fiscal	system	was
only	
a	remote	possibility,	the	years	from	1834	to	1841	were	relatively	lean	for
the	Rothschilds.	In	Austria,	public	spending	remained	more	or	less	constant	and
there	were	no	new	loans.	It	was	even	possible	to	repay	the	“fortress	money”
which	had	been	borrowed	from	the	Rothschilds	in	the	name	of	the	German
Confederation	in	1831.	The	same	was	true	in	France:	although	the	July
Monarchy	experimented	with	public	works	schemes,	these	were	financed	out	of
taxation	before	1841.	Indeed,	total	expenditure	was	slightly	lower	in	1839	than	it

--- Page 508 ---
had	been	in	1831	and	the	national	debt	was	actually	reduced	by	169	million
francs.	The	most	Molé	could	offer	was	yet	another	conversion,	an	operation
which	James	regarded	with	little	enthusiasm	in	the	light	of	past	experience.
The	financial	position	of	Russia	was	altogether	different,	though	the	net	effect
was	essentially	the	same	from	the	Rothschilds’	point	of	view.	Russian	public
spending	continued	to	rise	in	nominal	terms	from	1833	until	1839,	but	this	was
to	some	extent	a	monetary	phenomenon	as	recurrent	deficits	were	financed	by
the	printing	of	paper	roubles.	The	resulting	inflation	was	halted—albeit
temporarily—by	Kankrin’s	reforms	of	the	currency	in	1839	and	1843,	which
replaced	the	paper	rouble	with	a	new	“hard”	rouble	backed	by	a	gold	and	silver
reserve.	This	reform	raised	the	possibility	of	a	stabilisation	loan	to	establish	the
new	currency’s	bullion	reserve.	James	eagerly	proposed	floating	such	a	loan
simultaneously	in	London	and	Paris.	“It	should	not	be	too	difficult	to	impress
upon	the	Russian	Government	the	advantage	of	this,”	he	wrote	revealingly,
not	only	because	it	will	enhance	their	credit	but	also	because	it	is	in	their	own
best	interest	to	ensure	that	all	the	wealthy	people	[in	England	and	France]	have	a
substantial	investment	in	Russia	and	would	suffer	a	financial	loss	if	ever	such	an
unfortunate	idea	as	to	march	into	Russia	and	wage	war	or	to	castigate	the
Russian	state,	were	to	be	implemented	.	.	.	I	am	extremely	keen	for	this	deal	to
succeed	and	not	because	of	the	profit	we	stand	to	make	but	rather	because	I	want
our	House	to	resume	the	relationship	we	had	with	Russia.
Salomon	wholeheartedly	agreed.	A	loan	to	Russia	would,	he	argued,	be	“a	very
desirable	.	.	.	even	a	very	brilliant	deal”:	“Quite	apart	from	the	pecuniary	returns
which	it	would	bring,	such	a	loan	would	be	of	great	importance	for	us,	in	that	a
new,	close	relationship	with	Russia	would	bring	us	back	on	top	with	all	the
[great	powers?]	in	Europe,	and	a	loan	with	Russia	is	always	good	for	the	morale
of	our	house.”	Amschel	echoed	this	sentiment.	But	not	for	the	first	time
Rothschild	efforts	to	supplant	the	traditional	dominance	of	Hope	&	Co.	in	St
Petersburg	came	to	nothing.	The	younger	Rothschilds—and	particularly	those	in
London—evidently	had	their	doubts	about	the	project,	proposing	terms	which
struck	Salomon	as	excessively	harsh:
For	Russian	3	per	cent	paper	you	offer	70,	less	commission	of	2	per	cent	makes
68!	Is	that	a	reasonable	price,	when	you	consider	that	.	.	.	Austrian	3	per	cents
[stand	at]	81	and	Belgian	3	per	cents	[at]	71?	When	the	bonds	of	a	state	which
has	scarcely	emerged	from	revolution	are	valued	at	[such]	prices?	We	must	fear
with	good	reason	that	such	a	proposal,	coming	from	the	House	of	Rothschild,

--- Page 509 ---
would	make	us	a	laughing	stock.	In	addition	to	this	all	too	low	price,	you
propose	to	take	[only]	[£]
1	million
	for	yourselves	and	to	take	the	rest	only	in
commission	and	even	this	is	not	to	be	binding	in	the	event	of	a	war	breaking	out
between	any	two	of	the	great	powers	in	Europe	or	America	within	six	weeks	[of
the	agreement	being	signed].
Even	when	the	possibility	of	a	40	million	rouble	Russian	loan	resurfaced	in
the	more	tranquil	conditions	of	1841-2,	the	negotiations	foundered.	This	time	it
was	Salomon’s	turn	to	sound	the	note	of	caution.	Evidently	having	been	briefed
by	Metternich,	he	argued	that	Kankrin’s	stated	intention	of	investing	the	money
in	railways	was	merely	a	cover	for	increased	expenditure	on	the	army.	He	also
echoed	Amschel’s	argument	that	a	Russian	loan	was	unlike	a	loan	to	any	of	the
other	great	powers:	“In	the	case	of	a	loan	for	England,	France	or	Austria	the
money	remains	in	circulation,	and	quickly	returns	from	the	government’s	coffers
to	the	public.	With	Russia,	the	money	that	flows	in	is	buried,	poured	away	into
the	colossal	European	and	even	Asian	[domains?]	of	this	empire.”
Once	again,	the	Rothschilds	pitched	their	terms	too	low	to	break	the	Hope
monopoly,	refusing	to	buy	more	than	a	small	proportion	of	the	proposed	loan
firm	(“à	forfait”	in	contemporary	parlance)	as	opposed	to	selling	it	in
commission	(with	the	option	to	return	any	unsold	bonds).	Subsequent	desultory
talks	with	St	Petersburg	in	1844	and	1846	were	no	more	conclusive.	Once	it	had
seemed	that	the	Rothschilds	no	longer	needed	the	great	powers;	now	it	began	to
seem	that	the	powers	no	longer	needed	the	Rothschilds.
	
	
Spreading	the	Net
As	we	shall	see,	one	response	to	this	diminution	of	government	business—
adopted	most	enthusiastically	by	James	and	Salomon—was	to	become	involved
in	industrial	finance,	and	especially	in	the	formation	of	railway	companies.	The
alternative	was	to	drum	up	new	business	with	smaller	states.	This	was	the
strategy	adopted	by	the	Frankfurt	house.	To	cite	only	the	most	important
transactions	of	the	period	from	Berghoeffer’s	list,	it	issued	bonds	totalling	3.5
million	gulden	for	the	Duchy	of	Saxe-Coburg-Gotha	between	1837	and	1842,
and	9.9	million	gulden	for	the	Duchy	of	Nassau;	a	6.7	million	reichsthaler	lottery
loan	for	the	family’s	oldest	such	client,	Hesse-Kassel,	in	1845,	as	well	as	loans
to	its	neighbour	Hesse-Darmstadt;	and	a	14	million	gulden	loan	to	Baden	in	the
same	year.	There	was	also	a	loan	to	Bavaria	in	1835	which	led	to	the

--- Page 510 ---
appointment	of	Carl	and	Amschel	as	“court	bankers”	and	various	other	honours
(including	the	Bavarian	consulship	in	Frankfurt	for	Anselm).	In	the	mid-1840s
loans	were	also	floated	for	Württemberg	and	Frankfurt	itself.	Hanover	too	was
approached	but	this	deal	fell	through	at	the	eleventh	hour.	Nor	was	it	only	in
western	Germany	that	the	Rothschilds	were	active.	There	was	an	attempt	in	1835
to	revive	the	firm’s	old	connection	with	the	Danish	Kingdom	by	issuing	a	£3
million	loan.	None	of	this	would	have	been	possible	had	the	other	German	states
been	as	parsimonious	as	Prussia.	But	Prussia	was	the	exception	to	a	rule	of	rising
indebtedness	which	applied	to	almost	all	other	German	states	during	the	
Vormärz
period.	In	Hanover,	Württemberg,	Baden	and	Bavaria,	the	ratio	of	debt	to
revenue	rose	between	1825	and	1850;	only	in	Prussia	did	it	fall.	(The	difference
is	probably	best	explained	by	the	growing	involvement	of	the	western	
German
states	in	railway	construction	during	this	period,	and	the	restriction	on	Prussian
borrowing	established	by	the	1819	State	Debt	Decree.)
From	the	Rothschilds’	point	of	view,	such	loans	to	even	the	medium-sized
German	states	were	relatively	minor	transactions;	yet	they	often	took	just	as
much	time	to	arrange	as	loans	to	great	powers	(in	some	cases	because	of	the
growing	pressures	from	representative	bodies	on	previously	more	or	less
autonomous	financial	bureaucracies).	On	the	other	hand,	the	volume	of	business
evidently	compensated	for	the	effort	involved—witness	the	profitability	of	the
Frankfurt	house	in	this	period.	Amschel	and	the	nephews	who	assisted	him	in
Frankfurt	were	apparently	indifferent	to	the	political	character	of	the	German
states	they	did	business	with:	while	Baden	(for	example)	was	a	“model”
constitutional	monarchy,	Hanover—after	the	abrogation	of	its	constitution	by
King	Ernst	August	in	1837—was	among	the	most	conservative	regimes	in	all
Germany.
From	the	point	of	view	of	the	German	states,	it	was	becoming	harder	and
harder	to	raise	a	loan	without	going	to	the	Rothschilds,	so	dominant	were	they	in
the	German	capital	market.	This	was	especially	true	in	south-west	Germany.	Not
only	in	Frankfurt,	but	in	other	commercial	centres	like	Cologne,	the	Rothschilds
were	able	to	exercise	all	the	influence	of	a	central	bank:	local	people	talked	of
“Rothschild	shipments”	of	specie	and	“Rothschild	money.”	This	dominance
inevitably	aroused	comment,	most	of	it	hostile.	As	in	the	1820s,	the	Rothschilds
were	seen	by	liberals	as	shoring	up	reactionary	regimes.	“Many	of	the	smaller
German	Governments,”	reported	one	Austrian	diplomat,	“have	recourse
exclusively	to	the	House	of	Rothschild,	and	.	.	.	refuse	to	be	influenced	by	the
dissatisfaction	frequently	expressed	by	their	subjects.”	This	dissatisfaction	was

--- Page 511 ---
to	come	to	a	head	in	a	matter	of	years.	When	the	Hanoverian	liberal	Johann
Stüve	came	to	power	in	1848,	for	example,	he	sought	to	avoid	“dirty	transactions
with	Rothschild,”	which	he	associated	with	the	era	of	Metternich.
Quite	apart	from	floating	bonds	for	medium-sized	German	states,	the
Frankfurt	house	also	made	good	profits	from	loans	to	minor	German	princes
such	as	Prince	von	Bentheim-Tecklenburg	and	Prince	Viktor	zu	Isenburg	(to
name	just	two),	as	well	as	to	major	aristocratic	landowners	like	Count	Hugo
Henckel	von	Donnersmarck.	In	many	ways	this	represented	a	continuation	of
business	dating	back	to	the	time	of	Mayer	Amschel.	What	was	novel	in	the
1840s	was	the	extension	of	such	business	to	the	non-German	parts	of	the
Habsburg	Empire.	Between	1843	and	1845	loans	to	the	value	of	12.3	million
gulden	were	issued	by	Salomon	and	his	Vienna	associates	to	a	group	of	Austro-
Hungarian	noblemen	notable	for	the	size	of	their	estates	and	the	extent	of	their
political	influence,	all	but	one	of	whom—the	Habsburg	Archduke	Karl	Ludwig
—were	Hungarian.	Much	the	largest	loan,	to	Prince	Paul	Esterházy,	was,	of
course,	far	from	being	the	first	Rothschild	loan	to	that	powerful	family.	But	the
sudden	spate	of	loans	to	other	eminent	Hungarians	is	striking.	The	likes	of	Count
Móric	Sándor,	Count	Joseph	Hunyady	and	Count	Lajos	Széchényi,	eldest	brother
of	the	multi-talented	Magyar	reformer	Istvrán	Széchényi,	were	at	the	apex	of
Hungarian	society.	In	principle,	these	transactions	were	little	different	from	the
lending	facilities	provided	by	West	End	banks	like	Coutts	&	Co.	to	the	English
aristocracy.	(Indeed,	Esterházy	had	a	close	counterpart	in	the	Duke	of
Buckingham,	another	land-rich	but	cash-poor	grandee.)	But	this	new
involvement	with	the	Magyar	elite	was	to	prove	a	source	of	political	as	well	as
financial	embarrassment	to	the	Rothschilds	when,	just	a	few	years	later,	Hungary
was	plunged	into	a	secessionist	war	with	Austria.
In	Italy,	the	Rothschilds	pursued	the	same	strategy	of	diversification.	They
continued	to	play	a	leading	role	in	the	finances	of	the	Bourbon	regime	in	the
Two	Sicilies,	though	James	and	his	nephews	worried	that	local	bankers	would
sooner	or	later	challenge	Carl’s	dominant	position	there.	Here,	as	in	Spain,	there
was	a	shift	away	from	conventional	bond	issues	in	the	1830s.	For	example,	the
state-owned	Sicilian	sulphur	mines	were	considered	as	a	possible	source	of
guaranteed	revenue	against	which	advances	might	be	made	to	the	government.
Another	possibility	raised	was	that	of	a	lottery	loan,	an	idea	which	James
disliked	because	such	loans	had	been	prohibited	on	the	Paris	bourse.	It	is	evident
from	their	private	correspondence	that	the	Rothschilds	had	a	low	opinion	of	the
Neapolitan	government	(which	was	to	be	famously	excoriated	by	Gladstone	in

--- Page 512 ---
1850).	On	the	other	hand,	they	had	no	scruples	about	continuing	to	do	business
with	“His	Macaroni	Majesty.”	“Your	Finance	Minister	is	not	a	man	you	can
reliably	count	on,”	James	told	Carl	after	a	visit	to	Naples	in	1839.	“He	is	a	real
blackguard.	He	is	afraid	to	speak	with	the	King	and	if	one	wants	to	accomplish
anything	at	all	in	Naples,	the	only	man	who	can	do	so	is	the	King	himself	and
[
sic
]	the	Minister	of	the	Interior,	who	is	a	very	smart	fellow.”
Relations	with	the	Papacy	had	a	similar	character:	a	fundamental	contempt	for
the	Roman	government	was	no	barrier	to	a	profitable	business	relationship.	As	in
the	case	of	Naples,	the	mid-1830s	saw	attempts	by	rivals	to	break	the
monopolistic	position	over	Papal	finances	which	the	Rothschilds	had	established
after	1830.	These	were	successfully	seen	off,	and	the	management	of	the	Papal
debt	remained	firmly	and	profitably	in	the	hands	of	their	Roman	partner
Torlonia.	This	gave	the	Rothschilds	a	degree	of	leverage	over	the	Papal
government:	on	at	least	two	occasions	Salomon	protested	through	Metternich
against	ill-treatment	of	the	Jewish	community	of	Rome,	reinforcing	the
widespread	belief	that	(in	the	words	of	Alfred	de	Vigny)	“A	Jew	now	reigns	over
the	Pope	and	Christianity.”	However,	this	aspect	of	the	relationship	should	not	be
exaggerated:	the	primary	concern	was	profit	from,	not	reform	of,	the	Papal
regime.
It	proved	rather	more	difficult	to	establish	financial	relations	with	the	state
which	was	to	pose	the	most	successful	challenge	to	Habsburg	power	in	Italy:	the
Kingdom	of	Piedmont-Sardinia.	In	1834	the	Paris	house	was	invited	by	the
government	in	Turin	to	bid	for	the	management	of	a	£1	million	loan	it	was
proposing	to	make.	From	the	outset	the	competition	for	the	business	was	fierce
and	Lionel	was	sent	to	Turin	in	an	attempt	to	clinch	the	deal.	The
correspondence	between	him	and	his	uncle	James	during	this	mission	sheds	light
not	only	on	Rothschild	negotiating	techniques	but	also	on	the	difficulties	of
dealing	with	an	essentially	absolutist	regime.	Finding	the	Piedmontese	Finance
Minister	impossibly	obtuse,	Lionel	sought	to	strike	a	behind-the-scenes	deal
with	his	secretary,	but	was	unable	to	overcome	the	King’s	preconceptions	about
how	the	loan	should	be	arranged.	“If,”	James	advised,
our	competitors	
come	to	you	(for	in	no	case	must	you	go	to	them	yourself	)
,
saying	that	they	are	disposed	to	understand	with	you	[
sic
]	for	the	Loan,	we	beg
you	will	receive	their	overtures	and	to	make	a	contract	with	them,	conceding	to
them	a	fourth	or	the	half	of	the	affair,	to	be	disposed	of	as	they	like	.	.	.	but	in
this	case	the	business	must	be	done	by	
you	in	
our	sole	name
;	for	you	were	the
first	on	the	spot,	and	in	no	case	can	it	suit	us	to	be	in	the	background	or	to	join

--- Page 513 ---
our	name	to	another.
However,	if	they	did	not	accept	such	a	proposal,	Lionel	should	improve	his	offer,
for	“we	are	disposed	to	take	the	business	if	not	at	any	price,	at	least	at	a	price
that	will	make	them	pay	dear	for	it	if	they	go	beyond	us	.	.	.	
If	the	business	be	in
the	least	feasible,	do	it,	even	if	it	should	give	no	profit	whatever,	even	if	it	were
necessary	to	lose	2	or	3	hundred	thousand	francs	to	prove	to	those	gent[leme]n.
that	we	are	not	afraid	of	a	sacrifice	when	we	want	to	baffle	them
.”	James
carefully	outlined	how	Lionel	should	deal	with	the	government	in	order	to	outbid
the	competition:
Your	principal	object	[he	wrote]	must	be	to	do	well	to	captivate	the	minister,	and
so	clearly	to	prove	to	him	that	it	is	[in]	his	interest	to	contract	with	us	rather	than
with	another,	never	giving	him	your	last	word,	and	to	show	yourself	in	such
dispositions	that	he	can	conclude	nothing	with	the	others	without	having	enabled
you	to	cover	their	offers—and	when	you	must	come	to	the	
last	word
	you	must
insist	that	it	shall	in	fact	be	the	last,	and	that	your	offer	shall	be	accepted
immediately	and	without	reserve.
If	however	these	gentlemen	are	clever	enough	to	place	themselves	in	an	equal
or	better	position	than	yours	in	this	respect	.	.	.	your	plan	must	be	to	make	them
pay	as	dear	for	it	as	possible,	and	to	abandon	the	field	to	them	only	when	you
have	sown	so	many	difficulties	&	thorns	in	it	that	they	can	gather	nothing	but
weeds.	In	such	case	we	will	be	easily	consoled	.	.	.	there	are	cases	when	victory
costs	more	than	a	prudent	retreat	.	.	.
This	gives	an	indication	of	the	way	James	himself	would	have	operated	had	he
himself	been	in	Turin;	and	perhaps	he	might	have	succeeded.	But	the
inexperienced	Lionel	was	ultimately	outmanoeuvred—or	rather	outbid—by	what
he	called	the	“Bande	Noire”	of	French	bankers	led	by	Hagermann.	It	was	not
until	1843	that	renewed	attempts	were	made	to	do	business	with	Turin	and
relations	remained	embryonic	before	1848.
This	expansion	into	new	areas	explains	why,	by	the	early	1840s,	many
observers	had	begun	to	see	the	Rothschilds	as	more	than	merely	allies	of	the
European	states:	they	now	appeared	to	have	acquired	a	unique	power	of	their
own	which	was	independent	of	the	great	powers	and	nearly	universal.	In	his
essay	“Rothschild	and	the	Finances	of	Europe”	(1844),	Alexandre	Weill—one	of
many	writers	of	Jewish	origin	who	were	fascinated	by	the	Rothschild
phenomenon—made	the	point	succinctly:	while	“Rothschild”	had	needed	the
states	to	become	“Rothschild,”	he	now	no	longer	needed	them.	In	1842,	the

--- Page 514 ---
liberal	historian	Jules	Michelet	declared	in	his	journal	that	James	knew	“Europe
prince	by	prince,	and	the	bourse	courtier	by	courtier”	(see	the	epigraph	to	this
chapter).	This	was	barely	an	exaggeration.	Leaving	aside	the	two	outstanding
Rothschild	failures—Portugal	and	the	United	States—and	the	exceptional	case
of	Spain,	where	control	of	the	country’s	mercury	mines	took	precedence	over	the
floating	of	loans,	the	list	of	states	for	which	the	Rothschilds	raised	money	in	the
decade	or	so	before	1848	is	impressively	long.	Conservative	states	borrowed	to
avoid	parliamentary	influence	over	financial	policy,	often	the	necessary	corollary
of	tax	reforms.	More	progressive	states	borrowed	to	pay	for	public	works,
notably	railways,	when	the	private	sector	seemed	unable	or	unwilling	to	fund
investment.	Few	did	not	at	least	contemplate	employing	the	Rothschilds	as
bankers	and	underwriters.	The	benefits	of	this	widening	of	the	financial	net	were
obvious.	The	risks	would	only	become	apparent	in	1848.
	
“Absolument	le	Maître	des	Finances	de	Ce	Pays”:	Belgium
Perhaps	the	best	example	of	Rothschild	strategy	in	the	pre-1848	period	is	their
involvement	in	the	finances	of	the	newly	created	Kingdom	of	Belgium.	James
and	his	brothers	had	moved	swiftly	to	establish	a	financial	foothold	in	Brussels
in	the	wake	of	the	Belgian	secession	from	Dutch	rule	in	1830,	providing	the	new
government	with	a	lifeline	of	credit	in	the	first	three	stormy	years	of	its
existence.	In	the	period	of	relative	tranquillity	between	mid-1833	and	1838,
James	energetically	sought	to	defend	and	develop	the	position	of	dominance	he
and	the	Société	Générale	had	established	in	Brussels.	A	variety	of	transactions
helped	to	sustain	Rothschild	interest—above	all,	state	loans	to	finance	Leopold
I’s	policy	of	economic	development,	the	centrepiece	of	which	was	the	building
of	a	railway	network.
In	directly	involving	itself	in	railway	(and	canal)	construction,	the	Belgian
government	was	to	some	extent	breaking	with	the	established	British	practice
whereby	the	financing	of	railways	was	at	first	left	more	or	less	entirely	to	the
private	sector.	But	it	was	a	precedent	which	other	powers	would	soon	follow.
What	the	Belgians	had	appreciated	was	the	strategic	significance	of	possessing	a
railway	network—an	insight	which	owed	much	to	their	strained	relations	with
Holland	and,	in	particular,	the	need	to	avoid	dependence	on	the	established
network	of	canals	and	rivers	in	the	Low	Countries	which	the	Dutch	controlled.
From	the	Rothschild	point	of	view,	there	were	obvious	advantages	to	such	a
policy:	it	always	struck	them	as	less	risky	to	issue	state	bonds	than	private
railway	shares.	More	importantly,	the	development	of	the	Belgian	railway

--- Page 515 ---
system	dovetailed	neatly	with	plans	for	a	railway	link	between	Paris	and
Belgium	in	which	James	had	already	expressed	an	interest.	On	the	other	hand,
the	Belgian	strategy	of	industrial	development	would	have	made	little	sense	if	it
had	not	been	accompanied	by	a	parallel	development	of	the	country’s	own
banking	system.	Having	created	three	new	institutions	in	partnership	with	the
Société	Générale	(the	Société	de	Commerce	de	Bruxelles,	the	Société	nationale
pour	entre-prises	industrielles	et	commerciales	and	the	Banque	foncière),	James
had	done	his	best	to	maintain	his	dominant	position.	But	the	Banque	de	Belgique
(founded	in	1835	with	largely	French	capital)	was	a	genuine	rival	and	James	had
to	decide	whether	to	resist	the	challenge	to	his	position	or	to	join	forces	with	it.
In	the	boom	years	of	the	mid-1830s,	the	Paris	house	worked	closely	with	the
Société	Générale	in	floating	a	succession	of	Belgian	mining	companies	on	the
Paris	bourse.	But	in	the	sphere	of	government	finance,	as	the	inconclusive
negotiations	over	a	conversion	operation	in	1837	revealed,	even	the	Société
Générale	had	to	be	regarded	as	a	rival	as	much	as	an	ally.	Intimate	though	their
relations	were	with	King	Leopold,	the	Rothschilds	were	never	able	to	rest	on
their	laurels	as	the	financiers	of	independence,	especially	in	view	of	the
suspicion	with	which	they	were	viewed	by	sections	of	the	Belgian	parliament
and	press.	Moreover,	the	possibility	could	not	be	ruled	out	that	the	Belgian
government	might	one	day	seek	to	make	military	use	of	its	railway	network,	or
indeed	of	the	money	it	was	borrowing	to	pay	for	it.	The	government	spent
roughly	three	times	what	it	spent	on	railways	during	the	1830s	on	building	up	an
army.
All	these	conflicting	factors	had	to	be	taken	into	consideration	when	the
Dutch-Belgian	question	returned	to	the	European	diplomatic	agenda	in	1838-9.
In	essence,	the	question	now	arose	whether	or	not	the	Belgian	government
would	abide	by	the	terms	of	the	1832	articles	and	evacuate	Luxembourg	and
Limburg,	in	return	for	a	Dutch	recognition	of	Belgian	independence.	Quite	apart
from	the	territorial	sacrifice,	the	1832	articles	entailed	a	financial	sacrifice,
because	they	envisaged	a	roughly	equal	division	of	the	pre-1830	Dutch	debt
between	the	two	states.	It	so	happened	that	the	resumption	of	negotiations
coincided	with	a	new	Belgian	proposal	for	a	36	million	franc	loan	(and	a	parallel
Dutch	request),	giving	the	Rothschilds	more	than	usual	diplomatic	leverage.
Despite	the	small	sum	involved,	James	was	extremely	eager	to	secure	this	new
loan,	partly	because	he	expected	it	to	be	relatively	easy	to	float,	but	mainly
because	it	would	be	the	first	major	Rothschild	bond	issue	since	Nathan’s	death.
It	was	a	chance,	in	other	words,	for	him	to	assert	not	only	the	Rothschilds’

--- Page 516 ---
continuing	dominance	of	the	bond	market,	but	also	his	own	leadership	within	the
firm.	If	the	terms	were	right,	he	declared	in	May	1838,	“I	will	immediately	say
yes,	despite	all	the	political	problems,	because	there	won’t	be	any	war.	Belgium
will	have	to	yield	and	the	world	is	so	keen	to	do	business	that	one	really	has	to
hurry.”	The	Belgians	might	huff	and	puff,	James	reasoned,	but	without	French
support	they	could	do	little.
Momentarily,	when	Prussia	occupied	Luxembourg	in	order	to	force	the
Belgian	government	into	submission,	James	hesitated:	“the	sound	of	cannon
fire”	had	its	usual	effect	on	the	Paris	bourse.	But,	when	it	appeared	that	even	this
would	not	provoke	a	French	intervention	on	the	side	of	Brussels,	he	went	ahead
swiftly	with	the	loan,	aiming	to	issue	it	as	quickly	as	possible	in	London,	Paris
and	Brussels,	before	there	could	be	any	deterioration	in	the	diplomatic	position.
Although	the	bonds	proved	slightly	less	easy	to	market	than	James	had
anticipated,	the	issue	went	ahead	smoothly.	The	fact	that	the	Belgian	coal	bubble
also	burst	in	1838	may	have	strengthened	James’s	position,	as	the	sudden	slump
in	industrial	shares	very	nearly	broke	the	Banque	de	Belgique	and	put	even	the
Société	Générale	itself	under	pressure.	Now	it	was	James	who	stepped	in	to	bail
the	two	banks	out.
James	was	right	to	anticipate	that	the	negotiations	might	sooner	or	later	run
into	difficulties,	though	fortunately	for	him	this	did	not	happen	until	the	new
Belgian	bonds	had	largely	been	placed.	There	was	considerable	political
opposition	in	Belgium	(and	in	France)	to	the	reimposition	of	the	1832
settlement.	Yet	the	fact	remained	that	the	Belgians	lacked	the	wherewithal	to
resist,	for,	although	the	bonds	for	the	new	loan	had	by	now	been	sold,	the
Rothschilds	had	not	yet	finished	paying	over	the	money	raised.	To	make	the
position	unambiguously	clear,	in	December	1838	James	requested	that	a	clause
be	inserted	in	the	loan	agreement	to	the	effect	“that	if	war	were	to	break	out	or	if
any	disputes	were	to	arise	then	we	would	be	at	liberty	to	annul	our	contract.”
Somewhat	optimistically,	the	Belgians	continued	to	negotiate	with	the
Rothschilds	in	the	hope	of	securing	additional	funds	in	the	form	of	an	advance
against	treasury	bills.	“Well,	the	Belgians	are	asses,”	James	commented	on
hearing	reports	of	military	preparations	in	Brussels.	“I	am	not	at	all	pleased	to
see	all	the	troop	concentrations,	and	they	are	quite	capable	of	turning	a	joke	into
a	serious	affair,	although	as	long	as	the	major	powers	are	
opposed	to	war,	they
can’t	do	anything.”	The	request	for	an	advance	was	turned	down	flat.	Playing,	as
usual,	on	Metternich’s	hostility	to	“revolutionary”	regimes,	Salomon	(who	was
in	Paris	during	the	crisis)	sent	Apponyi	a	copy	of	his	instructions	to

--- Page 517 ---
Richtenberger,	the	Rothschilds’	agent	in	Brussels:
We	do	not	in	the	least	resent	the	fact	that	the	[Belgian]	Government	is	somewhat
angry	at	our	refusal	with	regard	to	the	Treasury	Bills.	It	is	not	at	all	a	bad	thing
that	these	gentlemen	should	realise	that	they	may	count	on	us	only	as	long	as
they	mean	to	follow	a	policy	of	wisdom	and	moderation.	We	have	certainly
given	sufficient	proof	of	our	intention	to	support	and	help	the	Belgian
Government	but	our	goodwill	necessarily	stops	short	of	the	point	of	providing
the	rod	with	which	we	are	to	be	beaten,	that	is	to	say,	providing	the	money
wanted	to	make	a	war	which	would	destroy	the	credit	that	we	are	applying	all
our	energies	and	resources	to	maintain.	You	may	tell	these	gentlemen	what	I
have	written	freely	and	frankly	and	without	mincing	words.
Lest	there	be	any	doubt	in	Austria	about	Rothschild	policy,	he	followed	this
letter	up	with	another	to	his	Vienna	office	“for	Prince	Metternich’s	information”
detailing	Richtenberger’s	conversations	with	the	Belgian	government:
They	won’t	get	a	farthing	from	me	until	they	give	way,	and	before	I	go	away	I
shall	leave	similar	instructions	with	my	brother	James	.	.	.	I	hope	that	Belgium
will	now	sign	the	twenty-four	articles	especially	as	they	lack	the	“nervus	rerum”
and	as	long	as	the	articles	are	not	accepted	the	Belgian	Government	will	not	get
a	halfpenny	from	us,	although	they	have	been	begging	for	money	for	months.
Difficult	though	I	[have]	found	it	to	keep	on	refusing,	I	shall	feel	compensated,
should	Belgium	yield	and	peace	be	restored,	by	the	reflection	that	I	shall	have
done	my	best	to	contribute	to	such	a	result.
It	was,	of	course,	as	much	the	lack	of	a	pro-Belgian	government	in	Paris	as	the
lack	of	4	million	francs	from	the	Rothschilds	which	obliged	the	Belgians	to	give
way.	Still,	the	leverage	which	the	Rothschilds	were	able	to	exert	in	Brussels	had
been	considerable.	Moreover,	it	seemed	to	present	a	perfect	opportunity	to
consolidate	Rothschild	dominance	in	Belgian	finance.	Even	before	the	treaty	had
been	signed,	James	was	urging	his	nephews	that	“a	Belgian	security	is	always
marketable	and	I	would	suggest	that	one	of	you	.	.	.	should	go	to	Brussels	to
make	the	acquaintance	of	the	new	Minister	in	order	to	establish	a	close
relationship	with	him	and	to	tell	him	that	you	are	[now]	prepared	to	make	all	the
loans	and	to	receive	treasury	bills”—something	which	had	previously	been
refused.	What	James	now	aimed	at	was	nothing	less	than	a	monopoly.	As	he	put
it	bluntly:	“[T]he	arrangement	of	the	Belgian	question	is	going	to	be	followed	by
a	need	for	money	and	this	will	be	a	moment	we	ought	to	exploit	in	order	to	make

--- Page 518 ---
ourselves	the	absolute	masters	of	the	finances	of	this	country.”	Even	by
Rothschild	standards,	this	was	strong	stuff;	but	in	many	ways	the	position
subsequently	achieved	was	not	far	short	of	mastery	over	the	government’s
borrowing,	even	if	it	had	to	be	shared	with	the	Société	Générale.	In	early	1840,
when	James	travelled	to	Brussels	to	discuss	the	terms	of	a	new	loan	of	60-80
million	francs,	he	found	the	government	“very	well	disposed”:	“I	left	all	the
people	there	exceedingly	pleased	with	my	visit,	and	I	lectured	them	about	how	to
put	themselves	on	a	better	footing,	at	least	for	a	while.	They	are	content	enough
to	
let	us	guide	them,	now	that	I	have	pointed	out	to	them	all	the	mistakes	they
have	made	in	attempting	to	act	without	us.”
After	protracted	discussions,	a	loan	was	duly	agreed	in	November,	and
another	(for	28.6	million	francs)	followed	two	years	later.	Whether	to	pay	its
indemnity	to	Holland	or	to	embark	on	new	railroad	projects,	the	Belgian
government	seemed	addicted	to	borrowing,	and	its	reliance	on	the	Rothschilds	to
find	buyers	for	its	bonds	was	almost	complete.	Typically,	when	James	fell	out
with	a	Belgian	minister	in	1842,	he	requested	Lionel	“to	go	to	Windsor	on
Sunday	to	see	the	King	of	the	Belgians”:
Constantin	has	written	a	letter	which	you	will	receive	in	due	time	explaining
how	matters	stand	at	Brussels	&	you	will	be	able	to	tell	the	King	if	.	.	.	the
present	minister	remains	there	will	be	no	market	anywhere	for	Belgn	Bonds	&
no	possibility	of	undertaking	a	large	financial	operation,	you	must	be	careful	not
to	speak	against	[the	minister]	but	only	let	his	Majesty	find	out	yr	opinion.
Altogether,	Belgium	raised	five	major	loans	between	1830	and	1844	with	a
combined	nominal	value	of	close	to	300	million	francs;	almost	all	had	been
underwritten	by	the	Rothschilds.
Nor	was	it	only	Belgian	finance	which	the	Rothschilds	now	sought	to	control.
In	October	1840	Anselm	visited	the	Hague,	where	the	Dutch	government	was
demanding	the	payment	of	a	capital	sum	from	the	Belgians	(as	opposed	to	the
annuity	of	5	million	francs	they	had	agreed	to	pay	in	1839).	When	the	Dutch
blamed	their	deficit	on	the	fact	that	the	Belgians	were	delaying	these	payments,
Anselm	obliged	with	a	modest	advance.	Two	years	later,	when	an	agreement	was
reached	with	Belgium	to	capitalise	the	money	in	the	form	of	bonds,	it	was	the
Rothschilds	who	then	offered	to	cash	them	(at	a	substantial	discount)	for	the
Dutch	government.	It	was	entirely	typical	of	the	Rothschilds	to	act	on	behalf	of
both	parties	in	such	an	international	transfer.
In	both	Belgium	and	Holland,	there	was	considerable	opposition	to	the	role

--- Page 519 ---
played	by	the	Rothschilds	in	public	finances.	For	example,	the	Rothschilds	were
closely	identified	with	the	French	government’s	abortive	scheme	for	a	customs
union	with	Belgium.	Protectionists	in	Brussels	detected	a	sinister	French	plan	for
economic	annexation,	though	there	is	in	fact	no	evidence	that	the	Rothschilds
supported	the	scheme.	Anselm	feared	similar	attacks	by	the	liberal	press	in
Holland	when	the	possibility	was	raised	of	a	conversion	of	the	Belgian	bonds
given	to	Holland	in	1841.	The	Dutch	Finance	Minister,	he	complained,	was	as
well	disposed	for	us	[
sic
]	as	can	[be],	but	he	is	so	much	under	the	influence	of
the	public	opinion	&	the	newspapers	which	say	that	he	is	sold	to	us,	that	really
the	man	has	not	the	courage	to	contract	with	us,	altho	he	is	very	well	aware	that
no	other	one	has	the	means,	the	credit,	the	influence	we	dispose	of	&	has	the
power	to	raise	so	much	the	public	credit	of	the	country	as	we	might	possibly	do
it	.	.	.	Really	the	Man	is	so	terrified	by	every	stupid	Article	in	the	news	papers
saying	that	he	has	sold	himself	to	us,	that	he	told	me,	“I	wish	most	sincerely	to
do	alone	with	you,	if	only	I	could	save	my	reputation	of	an	honest	man	or	prove
to	others	that	they	are	in	the	impossibility	[
sic
]	of	doing	so	well	as	you.”
The	Minister	was	right	to	worry;	three	months	later	he	was	forced	to	tender	his
resignation	in	the	face	of	opposition	pressure.
Although	Anselm	was	able	to	retain	Rothschild	control	over	the	
transfer
	of
the	40	million	guilders	still	owed	by	Belgium	to	Holland,	both	the	Dutch	and
Belgian	governments	now	sought	to	emancipate	themselves	from	the
Rothschilds	in	their	capacity	as	underwriters	by	selling	Belgian	bonds	by	public
subscription.	Needless	to	say,	the	Rothschilds	viewed	this	development	with
extreme	hostility,	fearing	a	precedent	which	(like	the	British	income	tax)	other
governments	might	follow.	Nat	was	characteristically	fatalist:	“I	fear	folks	have
become	too	clever	everywhere	&	governments	will	not	pay	commission	when
they	can	manage	without.”	“If	the	govt.	succeeds,”	he	told	his	brothers	gloomily,
“which	is	most	probable,	they	will	be	able	to	do	without	us	at	present	&	in	future
—We	can	not	oppose	them	openly.”	But	his	uncle	James	never	gave	up	business
without	a	fight.	“The	Baron	wishes	the	thing	not	to	succeed,”	Nat	reported,	“&
consequently	avoids	helping	the	minister	thro”—cer	tainly	it	is	against	our
interest	that	the	Government	should	make	open	loans	&	if	we	can	prevent	them
so	doing	it	is	our	duty	to	act	accordingly.”
It	would	seem	that	James’s	aggressive	view	prevailed.	“The	Belgian	Finance
Minister	will	not	find	it	a	very	easy	job	to	get	rid	of	his	loan	by	subscription,”
Nat	wrote	some	days	later.	“I	think	he	will	be	obliged	to	have	recourse	to	us	after

--- Page 520 ---
all	which	will	very	much	delight	us	all—Try	&	make	Belg[iu]m	flat	by	selling	a
few	1840	or	1842	bonds	for	the	J[oint]	A[ccount],	it	will	be	a	good	thing	if	they
write	to	Brussels	from	every	where	that	the	market	is	flat.”	This	was	a	classic
Rothschild	tactic—selling	off	bonds	to	embarrass	a	recalcitrant	government.	The
aim	was	to	force	the	Belgian	government	to	return	to	Rothschilds,	cap	in	hand.
This	appears	to	have	had	its	effect;	for,	although	the	public	sale	of	the	Belgian
4.5	per	cents	went	ahead,	it	was	not	long	before	the	government	once	again	had
to	turn	to	Rothschilds.	Meanwhile,	Anselm’s	indefatigable	negotiations	in	the
Hague	had	won	over	the	new	Dutch	Finance	Minister	to	the	view	that
Rothschilds	should	after	all	handle	the	sale	of	the	£6	million	Belgian	2.5	per
cents	he	wished	to	realise.	In	1845	the	Belgian	government	returned	contritely	to
the	Rothschild	fold	and	James	was	able	to	exact	tough	conditions	for	relatively
modest	advances	in	1846	and	1847.	Without	Rothschild,	reported	the	French
ambassador	in	Brussels,	the	Belgian	government	had	“realised	that	it	would	be
impossible	for	it	to	find	a	penny	on	any	bourse,	domestic	or	foreign.”	This	was
only	a	slight	exaggeration.	To	all	intents	and	purposes,	the	Rothschild	monopoly
on	Belgian	public	finance	was	complete—though	the	abortive	attempt	to	sell
bonds	directly	to	the	public	was	an	intimation	of	how	that	monopoly	might	be
challenged	in	the	future.
	
Roads	to	Damascus
In	many	ways	the	most	important	aspect	of	the	Belgian	crisis	of	1838-9	had	been
its	impact	in	France.	Along	with	its	alleged	foreign	policy	failures	in	Spain	and
Switzerland,	the	Orléanist	regime’s	unwillingness	to	stand	up	for	Belgian
interests	was	widely	criticised	as	appeasement	of	France’s	old	enemies,
conservative	Austria	and	perfidious	England.	Ever	since	the	revolution	of	1830,
the	Rothschilds	had	fretted	about	the	possibility	of	a	French	return	to	the	old
combination	of	internal	radicalism	and	external	aggression	which	had	set	Europe
ablaze	in	the	1790s.	When	yet	
another	international	crisis—this	time	in	the
Middle	East—confronted	France	with	diplomatic	isolation,	that	possibility
threatened	to	become	a	reality.	This	was	the	first	of	many	“Eastern	Crises”	the
Rothschilds	would	have	to	weather.	Its	outcome—the	fall	of	the	bellicose	Thiers
government	and	the	diplomatic	humiliation	of	France—marked	one	of	the	high
points	of	their	political	power.
In	fact,	James	had	never	really	stopped	worrying	that	international
developments	might	lead	to	a	change	of	government	in	Paris.	“Rentes	will	fall
because	Thiers	is	in	favour	of	a	policy	of	intervention	[in	Spain],”	he	warned

--- Page 521 ---
when	it	was	rumoured	that	the	latter	might	be	about	to	return	to	government	in
April	1837,	recalling	his	efforts	to	send	troops	across	the	Pyrenees	the	previous
year.	Indeed,	the	very	thought	of	another	Thiers	ministry	was	enough	to
convince	James	of	the	need	to	“get	out	of	the	[French]	funds,	for	the	end	will	not
be	good.”	“A	good	ministry,”	according	to	James’s	definition,	was	essentially
one	which	would	pursue	pacific	policies	abroad	and	balance	the	budget	at	home:
he	liked	the	Molé	ministry	which	ultimately	emerged	that	April	precisely
because	it	was	“weak.”	When	Molé	survived	the	elections	held	the	following
November,	James	regarded	them	as	having	“gone	well”;	and	he	urged	the
government	“to	stay	united	and	convince	themselves	that	they	are	strong	and
powerful,”	promising	“firm	and	steadfast	support”	when	Thiers	mounted	a	new
challenge	in	December	1838.
The	Rothschilds	were	nervous	when	Molé’s	position	finally	crumbled
following	the	elections	of	March	1839,	fearing	a	ministry	“composed	of	the
Thiers	party”	and	the	
doctrinaire
	liberals.	“It	is	a	very	bad	thing	according	to	my
opinion,”	wrote	Anthony	uneasily,	“and	the	King	is	obliged	to	give	way	&	to	do
everything	as	Thiers	wishes—I	assure	you	that	we	become	a	little	frightened.”
As	it	turned	out,	Thiers’	insistence	on	a	more	aggressive	foreign	policy	was	still
too	much	for	Louis	Philippe	to	accept	and	another	moderate	government	was
formed	by	Marshal	Soult.	But	this	proved	short-lived,	and	on	March	1,	1840,
Thiers	was	at	last	back	in	office.	His	seemingly	irresistible	rise	made	James
pessimistic:
After	a	new	Ministry	has	been	formed	no	one	gives	this	matter	any	further
thought,	especially	so	during	the	summer,	but	in	the	long	run	I	am	very	sorry	to
say	that	France	will	only	be	able	to	extricate	herself	from	her	current
predicament	by	means	of	war.	As	long	as	Louis	Philippe,	may	God	preserve	him,
remains	[on	the	throne]	I	think	that	peace	will	be	maintained	but	his	son,	I
believe,	will	have	no	option	but	to	wage	war.	Well,	be	that	as	it	may	my	dear
nephews,	I	intend	to	remain	faithful	to	my	previously	voiced	opinion	slowly	but
surely	to	sell	our	3	per	cent	rentes	.	.	.	It	is	a	disgrace	that	no	Ministry	can	be
formed	and	whoever	may	eventually	head	the	Ministry	.	.	.	we	can	expect	to	see
the	various	Parties	in	the	Chamber	at	each	other’s	throats,	but	if	the	securities
suffer	a	fall	then	one	can	buy	again	because	in	France	the	people	are	just	like	in
Spain,	one	day	they	fight	each	other	and	the	next	day	they	are	good	friends
again.
With	Thiers	as	premier,	he	warned	his	nephews,	he	was	“not	too	happy	with	the

--- Page 522 ---
fundamental	situation,	that	is,	with	the	internal	state	of	affairs.”	The	regime	was
“losing	those	friends	who	were	most	dedicated	to	her.”	Although	James	was
soon	talking—in	his	usual,	adaptable	way—of	“build[ing]	up	a	friendly
relationship	with	[Thiers],”	this	proved	to	be	unrealistic.
The	issue	which	led	to	open	war	between	the	Rothschilds	and	Thiers	is
usually	referred	to	as	the	“Eastern	Question”:	could	the	sprawling	Ottoman
Empire,	which	notionally	encompassed	most	of	North	Africa,	much	of	the
Balkans	and	nearly	all	of	the	Middle	East,	be	preserved	intact?	If	not,	what
should	take	its	place?	Economically	backward,	religiously	divided,
administratively	ramshackle	and	politically	despotic—the	Ottoman	Empire	was
all	of	these	things.	So,	of	course,	were	the	Romanov	and	Habsburg	empires;	but
less	so,	and	they	were	Christian	states—hence	the	effective	exclusion	of	Turkey
from	the	“pentarchy”	of	European	great	powers	in	the	modern	period.	At	this
time,	four	of	the	“big	five”	had	interests	in	the	areas	where	Ottoman	rule
appeared	to	be	in	decline.	Austria	and	Russia,	for	obvious	geographical	reasons,
had	the	longest	history	of	territorial	conflict	with	their	southern	neighbour;	while
Britain	and	France	were	becoming	more	and	more	interested	in	the	region	for	a
mixture	of	commercial,	strategic	and	religious	reasons.
In	the	course	of	the	nineteenth	century	the	future	of	Ottoman	rule	came	to
hinge	on	the	interaction	of	these	powers:	the	consistent	theme	which	links	all	the
various	Eastern	crises	is	that,	while	each	power	had	her	own	distinct	objectives,
none	could	achieve	these	alone.	The	Rothschilds	came	to	play	a	vital	role	in	the
diplomacy	of	the	Eastern	Question	mainly	because,	whether	the	status	quo	was
preserved	or	new	structures	created,	money	was	needed;	for	one	of	the
fundamental	problems	of	governing	the	region	was	the	chronic	narrowness	of	its
tax	base.	There	was,	however,	a	second	and	very	different	reason	why	the
Rothschilds	took	an	interest	in	Ottoman	affairs:	the	position	of	their	“co-
religionists.”
As	we	have	seen,	it	was	the	successful	Greek	bid	for	independence	which	had
first	involved	the	Rothschilds	in	the	Eastern	Question.	Once	the	diplomatic
wrangles	over	the	extent	and	constitution	of	the	Greek	state	were	over,	they	were
only	too	happy	to	help	provide	the	funds	required	to	indemnify	the	Turks	and	set
the	new	government	in	Athens	on	its	feet.	The	loan	looked	at	first	sight	a
relatively	straightforward	business,	as	the	Greek	bonds	were	to	be	guaranteed	by
three	of	the	interested	powers,	Britain,	France	and	Russia.	However,	James	had
to	fight	hard	in	Paris	to	secure	a	satisfactory	share	from	Aguado	and	d’Eichthal,
who	was	in	a	position	to	dominate	the	transaction	because	of	his	close	links—as

--- Page 523 ---
a	fellow	Bavarian—with	the	new	Greek	King.	Moreover,	the	execution	of	the
transaction	proved	a	good	deal	more	difficult	than	had	been	anticipated.
Essentially,	60	million	francs	were	supposed	to	be	issued,	a	third	guaranteed	by
each	of	the	powers.	Of	the	money	raised,	11	million	francs	were	to	be	paid	to
Turkey	through	the	Rothschilds,	while	the	rest	went	to	the	Greek	government	via
d’Eichthal.
Renewed	tension	in	the	region	almost	immediately	disrupted	these
arrangements,	however.	In	November	1831	Mehemet	Ali,	ruling	Pasha	of	Egypt,
revolted	against	Sultan	Mahmud	II	on	the	ground	that	he	had	been	inadequately
recompensed	for	his	military	efforts	against	the	Greeks	in	the	Balkans.	Ali—
himself	an	Albanian	by	birth—sent	his	son	Ibrahim	to	invade	Syria,	the	territory
he	most	coveted.	Within	a	matter	of	months	he	had	taken	possession	of	Gaza,
Jerusalem	and	Damascus	itself.	The	Sultan	initially	sought	to	enlist	British
support	against	his	rebellious	vassal,	but	Palmerston	rejected	the	advice	of	his
man	in	Constantinople,	Stratford	Canning,	and	refused	assistance,	seeking
instead	to	broker	some	sort	of	compromise.	The	Sultan	therefore	turned	to
Russia,	accepting	the	Tsar’s	offer	of	military	assistance	in	February	1833.	Five
months	later,	to	British	and	French	
dismay,	a	treaty	(that	of	Unkiar	Skelessi)	was
concluded	between	Turkey	and	Russia	which	included	a	secret	article	binding
the	Sultan	to	close	the	Straits	of	the	Black	Sea	to	warships	of	all	nations	“au
besoin”—in	effect,	if	Russia	requested	it.	The	Russian	diplomatic	triumph	was
complete	when	Austria	and	Prussia	endorsed	the	treaty	at	Münchengrätz.
To	the	Rothschilds,	all	this	was	at	first	just	another	of	many	threats	to
European	peace.	Salomon	hastened	to	warn	James	on	Metternich’s	behalf	that
France	should	not	retaliate	by	backing	Mehemet	Ali,	whose	Napoleonic	public
image	in	Paris	was	further	enhanced	by	his	apparently	progressive	economic
policy	of	state	monopo	lies.	The	financial	implications	of	the	crisis	were,
however,	less	clearcut	because	the	French	guarantee	for	the	Greek	loan	had	yet
to	be	ratified,	while	the	indemnity	payment	to	Turkey	was	now	due	to	be	paid.
Under	the	strained	diplomatic	circumstances,	it	was	predictable	that	these
transactions	were	plagued	by	(ostensibly)	technical	difficulties.	The	Greeks
delayed	sending	the	necessary	bonds	to	London,	for	example,	while	the	Turks
refused	to	admit	a	Greek	delegation	to	Constantinople	if	they	arrived	in	a
warship.	Nat	had	set	off	for	Constantinople	fantasising	about	the	exotic
decorations	he	would	receive	from	the	Sultan	in	return	for	facilitating	the
indemnity	payment.	By	the	time	he	left,	however,	he	was	“sick	&	tired	of	the
Turks	and	their	shameful	double	dealing	&	regret	exceedingly	that	I	ever	came

--- Page 524 ---
here	to	do	business	.	.	.	[in]	this	detestable	place.”
There	were	further	difficulties	in	1836-7,	when	the	Greek	government
threatened	to	default	on	the	interest	payments	due	on	its	loan,	a	crisis	which	put
the	international	guarantee	to	a	test	it	only	just	managed	to	pass.	In	an	operation
similar	to	that	which	the	Rothschilds	had	to	carry	out	for	Portugal	at	around	the
same	time,	new	bonds	were	issued	to	raise	the	cash	for	the	dividends	on	the
existing	bonds;	but	the	financial	markets	quickly	learned	to	value	the	various
Greek	bonds	differently,	preferring	those	guaranteed	by	Britain	to	those
guaranteed	by	France	and	Russia.	The	problem	persisted	into	the	1840s,	with	the
guarantor	powers	seeking	to	pay	only	the	interest	due,	without	the	Rothschilds’
commission.
It	was	at	this	moment	that	French	and	British	policy	on	the	Eastern	Question
began	to	diverge.	The	period	1836-7	saw	the	resumption	of	French	colonisation
of	another	formerly	Ottoman	fiefdom,	Algeria—a	project	initiated	in	the	dying
days	of	the	Bourbon	regime	and	now	brought	to	a	successful	military
conclusion.	Palmerston,	on	the	other	hand,	was	now	steering	British	policy	in	a
more	pro-Turkish	direction,	in	the	hope	of	undermining	the	dominant	Russian
position	in	Constantinople.	When	war	broke	out	again	between	the	Sultan	and
Mehemet	Ali	in	April	1839,	the	French	government	gradually	found	itself
isolated	in	its	support	for	the	latter.	In	the	course	of	tortuous	diplomatic
manoeuvring,	an	Anglo-Russian	deal	was	struck	whereby	the	Treaty	of	Unkiar
Skelessi	would	be	replaced	by	an	international	agreement	on	access	to	the	Black
Sea,	while	Mehemet	Ali	would	be	forced	to	quit	Syria	but	allowed	to	keep	the
fortress	of	Acre.	In	October	1839	the	Soult	government	rejected	this	proposal,
but	there	was	very	little	it	could	do.	It	was,	as	the	Paris	house	reported	to	New
Court,	“in	a	rather	embarrassing	position.	In	effect	.	.	.	the	French	government
either	will	be	obliged	to	accept	[Lord	Palmerston’s	proposals]	too	or	may	well
find	itself	completely	isolated	in	its	view	of	Eastern	affairs.”	Coming	so	soon
after	the	government’s	inert	response	to	the	Belgian	crisis,	this	
diplomatic
reverse	seemed	a	compelling	argument	for	giving	Thiers’	more	aggressive
approach	to	foreign	policy	a	chance.
Up	until	this	point,	the	Rothschilds	had	done	little	more	than	monitor
diplomatic	developments.	Then,	on	February	5,	1840,	something	happened	in
Egyptian-occupied	Damascus	which	dramatically	altered	the	complexion	of	the
crisis.	Under	circumstances	which	remain	obscure,	a	Sardinian	Capuchin	friar
named	Father	Tommaso	and	his	servant	Ibrahim	went	missing	without	trace.	As
they	had	last	been	seen	in	the	city’s	Jewish	quarter,	allegations	soon	began	to

--- Page 525 ---
circulate	that	they	had	been	murdered	there.	Egged	on	by	the	French	consul,	the
comte	de	Ratti-Menton,	who	wished	to	assert	France’s	responsibility	for
Catholics	in	Damascus,	the	Egyptian	Governor	arrested	a	number	of	Jews	and
subjected	them	to	torture.	One	Jew	who	alleged	that	he	had	seen	Tommaso	in	the
Muslim	market	was	arrested	and	tortured	to	death,	as	was	his	servant.	After	500
lashes,	a	Jewish	barber	alleged	that	he	had	seen	Tomasso	with	two	rabbis	and
seven	leading	members	of	the	Jewish	community,	including	one	David	Arari.
They	were	all	arrested,	along	with	a	third	rabbi.	When	they	protested	their
innocence,	the	unfortunate	barber	was	whipped	again,	whereupon—in	return	for
immunity—he	claimed	that	the	suspects	had	offered	him	money	to	murder	the
monk	so	that	his	blood	could	be	used	to	make	unleavened	bread	for	Passover.
Although	he	had	refused,	the	barber	claimed	to	have	witnessed	Tomasso’s	“ritual
murder”	at	Arari’s	house.
After	torture	and	a	promise	of	immunity,	Arari’s	servant	confessed	to	the
murder,	and	what	were	supposed	to	be	Tommaso’s	remains	were	duly	“found”	in
a	sewer,	whereupon	the	seven	suspects	were	tortured	until	they	“confessed”	their
guilt.	One	of	them—who	converted	to	Islam	to	save	himself	and	his	family—
confirmed	the	ritual	murder	story:	Tommaso’s	servant	had,	he	said,	been
murdered	in	the	same	way.	As	with	early	modern	witch-hunts,	the	more	bizarre
the	story	grew,	the	greater	the	number	of	people	who	were	implicated.
Altogether	some	seventy	people	were	arrested,	and	almost	as	many	children
were	taken	hostage	to	force	those	“suspects”	who	had	fled	Damascus	to	give
themselves	up.	Throughout,	the	French	consul	played	the	role	of	witchfinder-
general,	exploiting	not	only	the	anti-Semitism	of	the	Catholic	community	but	the
social	divisions	within	the	Jewish	community.
It	was	the	arrest	of	Isaac	de	Picciotto,	a	Jewish	merchant	who	also	happened
to	be	an	Austrian	subject,	which	transformed	the	witch-hunt	into	a	major
international	incident.	Determined	to	prevent	his	suffering	the	same	fate	as	Ratti-
Menton’s	other	victims,	the	Austrian	consul,	Caspar	Giovanne	Merlatto,
protested	to	the	Damascus	authorities	and	asked	his	superior	in	Egypt,	the
consul-general	Anton	Laurin,	to	do	the	same	in	Alexandria.	On	March	31	Laurin
—who	regarded	the	whole	notion	of	ritual	murder	as	spurious—not	only
complained	to	Mehemet	Ali,	but	also	sought	to	get	his	French	counterpart	in
Alexandria	to	restrain	Ratti-Menton.	For	good	measure,	Laurin	simultaneously
took	the	somewhat	unusual	step	of	sending	copies	of	his	own	reports	and	some
of	those	he	had	received	from	Merlatto	directly	to	the	Austrian	consul-general	in
Paris.	The	latter	should,	Laurin	suggested,	press	the	French	government	to	“issue

--- Page 526 ---
a	strong	order	.	.	.	seriously	rebuking	the	consul	in	Damascus”	and	“hold[ing]	the
government	there	responsible	.	.	.	[lest]	the	animosity	of	the	non-Jewish
population	develop	into	a	real	persecution	of	the	Jews.”
The	Austrian	consul-general	in	Paris	and	the	author	of	the	letter	quoted	above
was,	of	course,	James	de	Rothschild,	and	Laurin’s	was	only	one	of	a	number	sent
to	him	and	to	other	members	of	the	Rothschild	family	seeking	support	for	the
Damascus	Jews,	as	well	as	those	of	Rhodes	who	were	experiencing	similar
persecution.	On	March	15	letters	on	the	subject	had	reached	the	Dutch	Jewish
leader	Hirsch	Lehren	from	a	Beirut	Jew	who	urged	that	they	be	passed	on	to	the
Rothschilds	so	that	they	might	“speak	to	the	kings	and	to	their	ministers.”	Two
days	later	another	letter	from	an	English	businessman	based	in	the	Middle	East
prompted	Lehren	to	write	to	James,	arguing	that	only	“the	renowned	Rothschild
family	.	.	.	has	the	power	to	save	the	brethren	suffering	persecution.”	On	March
27	the	Constantinople	community	had	sent	letters	from	Damascus	and	Rhodes	to
Salomon,	Carl	and	Lionel,	appealing	to	“the	tie	which	so	strongly	binds	together
the	whole	Jewish	community.”
James	did	as	Laurin	suggested.	However,	the	French	Foreign	Ministry	merely
ordered	that	their	vice-consul	in	Alexandria	should	investigate	Ratti-Menton’s
conduct,	which,	as	James	divined,	was	“only	a	temporising	measure,	since	the
vice-consul	is	under	the	consul,	so	that	he	has	no	authority	to	call	the	latter	to
account	for	his	actions.”	“In	such	circumstances,”	he	informed	Salomon	on	April
7,
the	only	means	we	have	left	is	the	all-powerful	method	here	of	calling	in	the
newspapers	to	our	assistance,	and	we	have	accordingly	today	had	a	detailed
account,	based	on	the	reports	of	the	Austrian	consul	[in	Damascus],	sent	in	to	the
[
Journal	des
]	
Débats
	and	other	papers,	and	have	also	arranged	that	this	account
shall	appear	in	similar	detail	in	the	
Allgemeine	Zeitung
	of	Augsburg.
This	decision	to	involve	the	press	was	partly	a	response	to	the	widespread
support	for	the	ritual-murder	theory	in	French	newspapers	like	the	
Quotidienne
and	the	
Univers
.	Determined	that	this	should	be	countered	as	effectively	as
possible,	James	turned	to	Adolphe	Crémieux,	vice-president	of	the	Consistory	of
French	Jews	since	1834,	whose	forensic	skills	were	as	celebrated	as	his
journalistic.	Crémieux’s	long	letter	on	the	subject	appeared	in	the	
Gazette	des
Tribunaux
	and	the	
Journal	des	Débats
	
the	next	day.	In	the	course	of	the
subsequent	press	debate,	James	also	authorised	Crémieux	to	publish	documents
Laurin	had	sent	him—much	to	the	irritation	of	Metternich	who,	while

--- Page 527 ---
sympathising,	abhorred	the	involvement	of	the	(by	Austrian	standards)
uninhibited	press.
This	was	only	the	beginning	of	the	Rothschilds’	involvement	in	the	campaign
to	secure	the	release	of	the	Damascus	prisoners.	In	London,	Lionel	was	present
when	the	Board	of	Deputies	met	to	discuss	the	affair	on	April	21	(as	was
Crémieux),	and	he	was	also	a	member	of	the	delegation	which	Palmerston
received	nine	days	later.	Six	weeks	later	it	was	Nat	who	suggested	that	Crémieux
write	an	official	letter	addressed	to	Lionel	and	the	British	Board	of	Deputies,	“&
that	will	afford	you	an	opportunity	of	addressing	Lord	Palmerston	on	the
subject”;	and	it	was	Nat	who	suggested	that	Lionel	“get	up	a	good	subscription
to	pay	the	expenses	of	sending	Crémieux	there	[to	the	Middle	East]	fast.”	This
led	directly	to	the	idea	of	the	highly	publicised	expedition	to	Alexandria	by
Crémieux	and	Sir	Moses	Montefiore,	the	purpose	of	which	was	to	clear	the
prisoners’	names	and	secure	their	release.	The	Rothschilds	contributed	a
substantial	sum—at	least	£2,500—towards	the	costs	of	this	venture,	as	well	as
acting	as	treasurers	for	the	Damascus	Jews’	
fund.	In	Vienna,	Salomon
meanwhile	persuaded	Metternich	to	press	the	Vatican	about	rumours	that
Tommaso	was	in	fact	alive	and	hiding	in	a	monastery	(he	was	not).	In	Naples,
Carl	loaded	Montefiore’s	ship	with	provisions,	gave	him	some	negotiating	tips
and	later	helped	him	in	his	fruitless	attempts	to	persuade	the	Catholic	church	to
expunge	the	allegation	of	murder	on	Father	Tommaso’s	supposed	gravestone.	In
Paris,	Anselm	received	regular	communications	from	Laurin,	detailing	the
progress	of	Montefiore’s	negotiations	in	Alexandria.
It	has	usually	been	assumed	that,	in	taking	up	the	cause	of	the	Damascus	Jews,
the	Rothschilds	were	motivated	by	sincere	outrage	at	the	way	their	fellow	Jews
were	being	treated.	Heine—one	of	the	journalists	James	tipped	off—contrasted
James’s	altruism	with	the	indifference	of	other	French	Jews,	and	in	particular	his
rival	in	the	sphere	of	railway	finance,	Benoît	Fould.	James,	Heine	observed,	had
“shown	a	nobler	spirit	in	his	sympathies	for	the	House	of	Israel	than	his	learned
antagonist.”	There	is	no	question	that	all	the	Rothschilds	sincerely	sympathised
with	their	co-religionists.	It	was,	said	Nat,	“an	unpleasant	business,	but	one	must
exert	oneself	to	prevent	such	calumnies	being	spread	against	our	religion	&	such
horrid	tortures	being	practised	on	our	unfortunate	brethren	in	the	East.”	The	aim,
he	added	a	few	days	later,	was	“to	show	people	generally	that	the	day	is	gone	by
when	any	religious	sect	may	be	neglected	with	impunity.”	The	French
government’s	attempts	to	defend	the	conduct	of	Ratti-Menton	enraged	Nat:
“[W]hen	the	Prime	Minister	of	France	declared	in	the	Chamber	that	he	thought

--- Page 528 ---
the	Jews	committed	murder	for	the	sake	of	Christian	blood	to	be	used	in	a
Hebrew	religious	ceremony	.	.	.	it	strikes	me	that	such	a	calumny	upon	all	those
who	have	any	Jewish	blood	in	their	veins	ought	not	only	to	be	contradicted	but
proved	to	be	false.”	He	and	the	rest	of	the	family	shared	the	widespread	Jewish
jubilation	at	the	success	of	Montefiore’s	mission	in	securing	not	only	a	solemn
firman
	from	Mehemet	Ali	himself	denying	the	existence	of	ritual	murder	as	a
Jewish	practice	(August	28),	but	also	the	“honourable	discharge”	of	the	prisoners
a	week	later.	All	this	gave	the	lie	to	the	charges	which	had	been	levelled	at	the
Rothschilds	in	the	1830s	of	indifference	to	the	fate	of	their	fellow	Jews.	“Who
can	come	forward,”	the	editor	of	the	
Allgemeine	Zeitung	des	Judenthums
Ludwig	Philippson	had	demanded	to	know	in	1839,	“to	say	that	these	people
have	done	anything	substantial	for	Judaism,	for	its	external	or	inner
emancipation,	for	its	civil	or	spiritual	elevation?”	Like	the	American	writer	who
had	claimed	that	James	did	not	“care	[about]	the	barren	seacoast	of	Palestine,”
Philippson	had	to	eat	his	words	after	the	Damascus	affair—or,	alternatively,
conclude	that	they	had	been	heeded.
On	the	other	hand,	the	extent	of	the	Rothschilds’	ambitions	for	the	Jewish
communities	of	the	Middle	East	should	not	be	exaggerated.	Even	before	1840	it
was	an	idea	frequently	canvassed	in	the	press	and	elsewhere	that	the	Rothschilds
had	some	sort	of	design	to	reclaim	the	Holy	Land	for	the	Jewish	people.	As	early
as	1830,	an	American	journal	(
Niles	Weekly	Register
)	suggested	that	“the
pecuniary	distress	of	the	sultan”	might	lead	him	to	sell	Jerusalem	to	the
Rothschilds:
They	are	wealthy	beyond	desire,	perhaps	even	avarice;	and	so	situated,	it	is	quite
reasonable	to	suppose	that	they	may	seek	something	else	to	gratify	their
ambition	.	.	.	If	secured	in	the	possession,	which	may	be	brought	about	by
money,	they	might	instantly,	as	it	were,	gather	a	large	nation	together,	soon	to
become	capable	of	defending	itself,	and	having	
a	wonderful	influence	over	the
commerce	and	condition	of	the	east—rendering	Judah	again	the	place	of	deposit
of	a	large	portion	of	the	wealth	of	the	“ancient	world.”	To	the	sultan	the	country
is	of	no	great	value;	but,	in	the	hands	of	the	Jews,	directed	by	such	men	as	the
Rothschilds,	what	might	it	not	become,	and	in	a	short	period	of	time?
At	around	the	same	time,	a	correspondent	asked	Nathan	directly:	“How	is	it	that
your	people	with	so	extensive	an	influence	have	made	no	efforts	to	re-acquire
Palestine,	the	land	of	your	forefathers,	from	the	Porte,	the	Ruler	of	Egypt	and	the
Powers	of	Europe?”	As	we	have	seen,	this	question	was	answered	in	mystical

--- Page 529 ---
terms	in	the	pamphlet	
The	Hebrew	Talisman
	in	1836;	and	one	“proto-Zionist”
Jewish	writer	formally	proposed	that	Amschel	purchase	land	in	Palestine	that
same	year.	The	early	French	socialist	Charles	Fourier	was	another	who	thought
that	“The	restoration	of	the	Hebrews	would	be	a	splendid	coronation	for	the
gentlemen	of	the	House	of	Rothschild:	like	Esra	and	Serubabel,	they	can	lead	the
Hebrews	back	to	Jerusalem	and	erect	once	again	the	throne	of	David	and
Solomon,	in	order	to	call	into	being	a	Rothschild	dynasty.”	Almost	exactly	the
same	image	was	conjured	up	at	the	other	end	of	the	political	spectrum	by	the
Univers
	in	October	1840.
1
	British	Evangeli	cals	were	also	attracted	to	this	idea.
As	Lady	Palmerston	commented	in	the	wake	of	the	Damascus	affair,	“the
fanatical	and	religious	elements	.	.	.	in	this	country	.	.	.	are	absolutely	determined
that	Jerusalem	and	the	whole	of	Palestine	shall	be	reserved	for	the	Jews	to	return
to;	this	is	their	only	longing	(to	restore	the	Jews).”	Though	Stanley	was	surprised
when	Disraeli	raised	the	subject	eleven	years	later,
2
	it	was	scarcely	an	original
thought.	Indeed,	it	is	possible	to	see	such	remarks	as	expressions	of	Christian
millenarian	hopes,	with	the	Rothschilds	supposedly	hastening	the	Second
Coming.
3
	But	there	is	no	evidence	that	the	Rothschilds	harboured	any	such
intentions;	the	involvement	of	individual	members	of	the	family	in	what	became
known	as	Zionism	was	a	much	later	development.
What	is	more,	a	number	of	members	of	the	family	had	reservations	even	about
the	way	the	campaign	for	the	release	of	the	Damascus	prisoners	was	conducted.
It	appears	from	Nat’s	letters	that	Lionel	was	uneasy	about	the	“rumpus”	being
made	by	Crémieux	and	some	of	the	more	vociferous	British	Jews.	They	had,	he
felt,	shown	“rather	too	much	warmth	of	feeling.”	Indeed,	one	reason	for
suggesting	that	Montefiore	accompany	Crémieux	to	Alexandria	was	“to
moderate	[the	latter’s]	zeal.”	Nor,	it	seems,	did	Nat	or	Anselm	expect	the
expedition	to	achieve	its	objectives.	When	it	did	succeed,	Anselm	was
“decidedly	against	any	public	demonstration”	and	deplored	the	hero’s	welcome
which	Crémieux	was	accorded	in	Frankfurt	and	elsewhere.	The	Damascus
agitation	galvanised	Jews	throughout	Western	Europe,	and	led	to	a	variety	of
schemes	for	improving	the	condition	of	the	Jews	in	the	Holy	Land,	notably	the
plan	for	a	Jewish	hospital	in	Jerusalem	devised	by	Philippson.	At	first	the	French
Rothschilds	seemed	willing	to	follow	the	lead	of	Montefiore,	who	supported	the
scheme;	but	they	made	their	contribution	conditional	on	the	founding	of	a
secular	school	alongside	the	hospital.	When	the	Jewish	community	in	Palestine
vetoed	this,	the	Rothschilds	withdrew,	and	it	was	not	until	1853-4	that	the
hospital	scheme	was	revived.
4
	The	Rothschilds	continued	to	try	to	use	their

--- Page 530 ---
influence	to	improve	the	condition	of	Jewish	communities	elsewhere	(in
Russian-controlled	Poland	for	example),	as	they	had	in	the	past;	but	their	efforts
were	always	
regarded	with	suspicion	by	more	radical	Jews	who	aimed	at
something	more	than	economic	amelioration.
For	the	Rothschilds,	the	real	significance	of	the	Damascus	affair	can	be
understood	only	when	it	is	set	in	its	diplomatic	context.	Sympathetic	though	they
undoubtedly	were	to	the	Damascus	prisoners,	James	and	Salomon	in	particular
attached	more	importance	to	the	diplomatic	ramifications	of	their	plight.	For	the
Damascus	affair	presented	James	with	an	ideal	opportunity	to	undermine	the
position	of	Thiers,	who	had	become	premier	a	matter	of	weeks	after	the
supposed	“murder”	of	Father	Tommaso.	In	essence,	the	affair	tended	to
accentuate	the	problem	of	French	diplomatic	isolation	which	had	helped	bring
Thiers	to	power.	The	British	government	had	its	own	reasons	for	backing	the
campaign	for	the	release	of	the	Jews.	Having	decided	to	break	the	power	of
Mehemet	Ali	and	isolate	France,	Palmerston	was	only	too	delighted	to	portray
the	Egyptian	regime	in	Syria	as	barbaric.	Similarly,	Metternich	welcomed	the
chance	to	challenge	the	French	claim	to	defend	the	interests	of	Catholics	in	the
Holy	Land.	Thiers,	on	the	other	hand,	could	hardly	be	seen	to	criticise	Mehemet
Ali’s	regime	in	Syria,	much	less	disown	his	own	consul.	Instead,	he	went	on	the
offensive.	In	early	May	he	told	James	“that	the	case	is	based	on	truth;	and	we
had	better	let	the	matter	rest	.	.	.	[as]	the	Jews	in	the	East	still	maintain	such
superstitions	.	.	.”	He	said	much	the	same	to	Crémieux.	On	June	2,	in	response	to
a	speech	by	Fould	in	the	Chamber	of	Deputies,	Thiers	sarcastically	called	into
question	the	patriotism	of	the	French	Jews:
You	protest	in	the	name	of	the	Jews;	well,	I	protest	in	the	name	of	the	French.
And	if	I	may	be	permitted	to	say	so,	something	extremely	honourable	is
happening	among	the	Jews.	Once	the	story	became	public	knowledge,	their
disquiet	was	apparent	all	over	Europe,	and	they	have	handled	the	affair	with	a
zeal	and	a	fervour	that	profoundly	honours	them	in	my	eyes.	If	I	may	be
permitted	to	say	so,	they	are	more	powerful	in	the	world	than	they	pretend	to	be,
and	at	the	very	moment,	they	are	lodging	complaints	at	every	foreign
chancellery.	And	they	do	it	with	a	zeal,	an	ardour	that	exceeds	all	imagination.	A
minister	must	have	courage	to	defend	his	agent	who	is	attacked	in	this	way.
This	unleashed	a	spate	of	attacks	on	“the	man	who	owns	the	splendid	mansion
on	the	rue	Lafitte	.	.	.	who	sought	at	all	costs	a	
coup	d’état
	against	.	.	.	our	consul
at	Damascus”	(the	
Univers
)	and	“the	incredible	arrogance”	of	“Mr	Rothschild”

--- Page 531 ---
(the	
Quotidienne
).
It	is,	of	course,	tempting	to	dismiss	such	remarks	as	an	expression	of	that	anti-
Semitic	streak	which	periodically	surfaced	in	French	politics	throughout	the
nineteenth	century.	Yet	there	was	a	sense	in	which	Thiers	had	little	alternative
but	to	defend	Ratti-Menton.	The	Rothschilds—and	James	in	particular—
were
determined	to	undermine	his	position,	though	more	because	of	the	threat	he
posed	to	international	stability	than	because	of	the	threat	he	posed	to	the	Jews	of
Damascus	(to	say	nothing	of	the	Jews	of	France).
It	would	be	an	oversimplification	to	say	that	the	Rothschilds	toppled	Thiers
from	power.	Quite	apart	from	the	events	in	Damascus,	the	summer	of	1840	saw	a
steady	worsening	of	the	French	position.	Rather	than	accept	the	Anglo-Russian
solution	to	the	problem	posed	by	Mehemet	Ali,	Thiers	sought	to	engineer	a
bilateral	
agreement	between	Ali	and	the	new	Sultan.	However,	this	merely
provoked	the	other	powers	into	signing	an	agreement	(on	July	15)	to	use	force	if
necessary	to	compel	Mehemet	Ali	to	accept	their	terms,	which	would	have
confirmed	him	as	hereditary	Pasha	of	Egypt,	given	him	the	title	of	Pasha	of
Acre,	but	entrusted	him	with	no	more	than	the	administration	of	southern	Syria
for	life.	It	was	now	beyond	doubt	that	Palmerston	put	the	preservation	of	British
influence	in	Constantinople	before	the	preservation	of	the	already	moribund
Entente	Cordiale.	Nor	was	Thiers	helped	by	Louis	Napoleon’s	abortive	landing
in	August	and	the	outbreak	of	unrest	in	Paris	the	following	month.	In	any	case,
Nat	explicitly	stated	at	the	height	of	the	crisis	that	it	would	be	“almost
impossible	and	would	indeed	be	dangerous	and	altogether	unwise,	to	overthrow
him.”	On	the	other	hand,	when	Nat	inveighed	against	the	“irresponsibility	and	.	.
.	nationalistic	peasant	obstinacy”	and	the	“pseudo	liberalism”	of	“this	most
arrogant	of	all	parvenus”	it	was	obvious	what	kind	of	“happier	future”	he	had	in
mind.	The	question	is	how	far	the	Rothschilds	were	able	to	hasten	Thiers’
downfall.
On	the	face	of	it,	their	sole	objective	in	the	frenetic	months	of	August	and
September	1840	was	to	promote	peace	through	their	tried	and	tested	channels	of
diplomatic	communication.	Lionel	reassured	Lord	Clarendon	that	France	would
not	fight;	James	relayed	to	Metternich	Louis	Philippe’s	repeated	pleas	for	an
Austrian	
deus	ex	machina
;	Lionel	sought	to	involve	the	King	of	the	Belgians;
James	visited	the	bellicose	duc	d’Orléans;	Lionel	relayed	Nat’s	warning	to
Palmerston	not	to	push	the	French	too	far—and	so	on.	But	the	financial	subtext
of	this	diplomatic	activity	was	calculated	to	undermine	Thiers’	position.	The	key
was	the	impact	of	the	crisis	on	the	price	of	rentes.	On	August	3	there	had	been	“a

--- Page 532 ---
tremendous	fall	in	the	price	of	rentes”	which	sent	Nat	and	James	scurrying	back
to	join	Anselm	in	Paris.	It	was	the	beginning	of	a	protracted	slide.	As	the	British
naval	expedition	closed	in	on	Ibrahim	Pasha	and	Palmerston	intransigently
rejected	Thiers’	bids	for	a	face-saving	compromise,	so,	inexorably,	the	price	of
rentes	declined.	Three	per	cents	fell	from	a	high	of	87	in	July	to	79	in	early
August,	touching	a	low	of	73.5	in	early	October.	It	would,	no	doubt,	be	wrong	to
suggest	that	the	Rothschilds	were	single-handedly	responsible	for	this	fall,	which
was	the	product	of	a	generalised	panic	on	the	Paris	bourse.	On	the	other	hand,
they	did	nothing	to	check	it.	More	importantly,	they	had	no	reason	to	do	so.	For,
unlike	comparable	crises	in	the	early	1830s,	this	was	costing	them	nothing.	The
clue	lies	in	Nat’s	comment	on	August	2:	“Thank	God	the	house	has	scarcely	any
[rentes].”	Quite	simply,	they	had	covered	themselves	in	advance	of	the	crisis	by
clearing	out	of	French	government	bonds	altogether.	This	was	what	Guizot,
struggling	as	French	ambassador	in	London,	failed	to	realise.	“Do	you	think	he
is	praying	to	God	for	the	safety	of	his	money?”	he	asked	the	Princess	Lieven
after	a	visit	from	Lionel	on	September	9.	Heine	too	was	taken	in	by	James’s
furrowed	brow:	“The	rente,	which	had	opened	down	two	per	cent,	tumbled	by
another	two	per	cent.	M.	de	Rothschild,	it	is	said,	had	the	toothache	yesterday;
others	say	he	had	a	colic.	What	does	this	portend?	The	storm	draws	ever	nearer.
The	beating	of	the	Valkyries’	wings	can	be	heard	in	the	air.”	In	fact,	James	was
play-acting	for	the	benefit	of	Heine’s	readers.	Nat’s	only	regret	was	that	he	did
not	have	more	liquid	funds	available	to	speculate:	“I	could	make	a	fortune,”	he
mused.
Thiers	fought	back.	On	October	12,	the	pro-government	
Constitutionnel
	fired
a	broadside	at	“M.	de	Rothschild	and	his	manoeuvres”:
[According	to	
The	Times
]	M.	de	Rothschild	is	a	man	of	finance	and	does	not
want	war.	Nothing	could	be	easier	to	understand.	M.	de	Rothschild	is	an
Austrian	subject	and	the	Austrian	consul	in	Paris,	and	as	such	he	has	little
concern	for	the	honour	and	interests	of	France.	This	too	is	understandable.	But
what,	pray,	have	you	to	do,	M.	de	Rothschild,	man	of	the	Bourse,	M.	de
Rothschild,	agent	of	Metternich,	with	our	Chamber	of	Deputies	and	our
majority?	By	what	right	and	by	what	authority	does	this	King	of	Finance	meddle
in	our	affairs?	Is	he	the	judge	of	our	honour,	and	should	his	pecuniary	interests
prevail	over	our	national	interests?	We	speak	of	pecuniary	interests,	but,
surprisingly	enough,	if	one	can	believe	highly	accredited	reports,	it	is	not	just
financial	grievances	that	the	Jewish	banker	would	lodge	against	the	cabinet	.	.	.
There	also	seems	to	be	wounded	vanity	to	satisfy.	M.	de	Rothschild	had

--- Page 533 ---
promised	his	co-religionists	to	have	our	consul-general	in	Damascus	dismissed
for	the	position	he	took	in	the	trial	of	the	Jews	being	held	in	that	city.	Thanks	to
the	steadfastness	of	the	president	of	the	council	[Thiers],	these	insistent	demands
of	the	mighty	banker	have	been	resisted	and	M.	Ratti-Menton	upheld—hence,
the	irritation	of	the	mighty	banker	and	the	fervour	with	which	he	throws	himself
into	intrigues	where	he	has	no	business.
This	tirade	overlooked	the	fact	that,	in	one	fundamental	respect,	the	“King	of
Finance”	
was
	in	a	position	to	“meddle”	in	government	policy.	If	Thiers	was
serious	about	making	military	preparations	and	ultimately	even	fighting	a	war,
the	question	inevitably	arose:	how	was	this	to	be	paid	for?	The	only	conceivable
answer	in	view	of	the	already	stretched	budget	was	by	borrowing.	Yet	the
government	was	in	no	position	to	borrow	money	with	the	price	of	rentes
slumping.	This	was	the	way	in	which	not	only	the	Rothschilds	but	the	financial
markets	as	a	whole	exerted	leverage	over	a	government	they	disapproved	of.	The
financial	crisis	effectively	destroyed	the	credibility	of	Thiers’	foreign	policy	by
depriving	him	of	the	possibility	of	borrowing	money.	In	his	reply	to	the	article	in
the	
Constitutionnel
,	James	made	the	point	with	subtle	menace:
I	have	never	at	any	time	encouraged	opposition	to	the	Government,	for	the
simple	reason	that	I	have	never	wished	to	play	a	political	role.	I	am,	as	you	state,
a	financier.	If	I	desire	peace,	I	desire	it	honourably,	not	only	for	France,	but	for
the	whole	of	Europe.	
Financiers	have	the	opportunity	of	rendering	services	to
the	country	under	any	circumstances,	and	I	think	that	in	this	respect	I	have	never
been	slow	to	respond
.
The	point	was	that	this	time	James’s	services	would	not	be	forthcoming.	Less
than	a	week	later,	on	October	20,	“the	little	blackguard”	resigned.	Ten	days	later
a	new	government	was	formed	by	Soult	and	Guizot	in	which,	as	Nat	affirmed
with	satisfaction,	“the	bourse	has	the	greatest	confidence.”
Of	course,	it	took	long	months	of	negotiation	to	arrange	a	lasting	peace	in	the
Middle	East—during	which	time	the	symptoms	of	popular	“war	fever”	persisted
not	only	in	France	but	in	Germany	too.	For	the	Rothschilds,	however,	Thiers’	fall
was	the	turning	point	in	the	crisis.	As	Heine	reported	in	March	1841:
Monsieur	de	Rothschild,	who	seemed	somewhat	indisposed	for	a	time,	is	now
quite	restored	and	looks	sound	and	well.	The	augurs	of	the	Stock	
Exchange,	who
are	experts	at	interpreting	the	great	Baron’s	physiognomy,	assure	us	that	the
swallows	of	peace	nestle	in	his	smile,	that	every	anxiety	about	the	possibility	of

--- Page 534 ---
war	has	vanished	from	his	countenance,	that	there	are	no	electric	sparks	which
forbode	storms	visible	in	his	eyes,	and	that	therefore	the	warlike	stormy	weather,
the	
Kanonendonnerwetter
	
which	threatened	the	whole	world,	has	been	altogether
dissipated.	Even	his	sneezes,	these	augurs	tell	us,	portend	peace.
Walls	of	Jericho
The	aftermath	of	the	Eastern	Crisis	demonstrated	how	international	tension
could	be	beneficial	to	the	Rothschilds—provided	that	increased	defence
expenditure	did	not	lead	to	outright	war.	To	be	sure,	the	Rothschilds	had
consistently	used	their	financial	power	to	promote	peace	throughout	the	1830s.
But	when	the	great	powers	had	been	completely	restrained	in	their	foreign
policies,	as	we	have	seen,	the	stream	of	new	loan	business	had	begun	to	dry	up.
By	contrast,	when	they	embarked	on	policies	of	rearmament,	as	they	did	from
1840	onwards,	this	was	not	necessarily	detrimental	to	Rothschild	interests.
The	fall	of	Thiers	led	almost	at	once	to	new	business	for	James.	The	increased
expenditure	on	armaments	which	was	Thiers’	legacy—particularly	on	the	costly
new	system	of	fortifications	around	Paris—obliged	the	new	government	of
Marshal	Soult	to	issue	a	major	new	loan	in	1841.	The	Rothschilds	had	every
reason	to	dislike	the	fortifications	project:	quite	apart	from	fuelling	the	bellicose
mood	throughout	Europe,	it	threatened	to	reduce	the	value	of	Salomon’s	villa	at
Suresnes,	which	was	close	to	the	planned	line	of	defences.	Nevertheless,	they
did	not	hesitate	to	meet	the	government’s	needs.	Admittedly,	James	grumbled
about	the	amount	and	issue-price	proposed	by	the	new	Finance	Minister,
Théodore	Humann—yet	another	former	banker	turned	politician,	and	a	man
whom	James	privately	regarded	as	a	“rogue”	and	a	“blackguard.”	Indeed,	the
negotiations	were	characterised	by	brinkmanship	which	was	extreme	even	by
James’s	standards.	He	bluntly	refused	to	cut	short	a	visit	to	see	Salomon	at
Gastein	and	Vienna	when	Humann	requested	a	meeting	in	Paris,	and	on	more
than	one	occasion	intimated	that	he	would	leave	the	business	to	others	if	the
terms	were	not	improved.	But	in	truth	he	had	no	intention	of	doing	so:	as	he	put
it,	“We	want—indeed	have—to	make	the	loan”;	and	he	was	confident	enough
that	Humann	would	not	act	without	him	to	drive	a	hard	bargain.	The	150	million
franc	loan	was	duly	issued	in	October	more	or	less	exactly	on	James’s	terms.
To	contemporaries,	this	merely	confirmed	James’s	unrivalled	dominance	over
French	finances.	However,	the	real	significance	of	the	loan	may	lie	in	the
peculiar	character	of	the	“armed	peace”	(Guizot’s	phrase)	which	made	it
necessary.	The	striking	point	is	that	now	James	and	Nat	were	willing	not	only	to
justify	but	also	to	finance	a	policy	of	rearmament	which	they	had	opposed	when

--- Page 535 ---
Thiers	had	been	in	power.	The	new	French	government,	they	assured	the	London
and	Vienna	houses,	was	arming	merely	to	mollify	public	opinion.	“No	cabinet	in
the	last	ten	years	has	pursued	more	peaceful	policies	than	the	one	formed	on
Oct[ober]	9,	but	it	has	things	to	take	into	consideration,	susceptibilities	to
overcome,	ardent	enemies	to	contend	with.”	Once	the	cost	of	the	increased
armaments	made	itself	felt,	the	popular	mood	would	become	more	pacific.	On
March	8	James	was	able	to	report	“a	
triumph”:	“The	Commission	dealing	with
the	Budget	refused	to	ratify	the	establishment	of	the	36	new	Regiments	and	this
is	a	slap	in	the	face	for	Thiers	who	wanted	to	increase	the	size	of	the	army	and
this	will	result	in	a	saving	of	40	million	and	a	genuine	disarmament	and	is	proof
that	they	seek	to	maintain	peace.	I	bought	rentes	.	.	.”
The	1841	loan	marked	the	resumption	of	“normal	service”	in	Rothschild
relations	with	the	French	Treasury.	Further	loans	followed	in	1842	and	1844	(for
200	million	francs	apiece),	despite	challenges	to	the	Rothschilds’	dominant
position	from	Hottinguer,	Baring	and	Laffitte.	International	tension	led	to
increased	expenditure	on	armaments	in	the	German	states	too.	“As	long	as
France	continues	arming,”	reasoned	Anselm,	“Germany	must	follow.”	Again,
this	meant	new	business	for	the	Rothschilds.	Thus,	after	seven	uneventful	years,
1841	saw	a	new	Austrian	government	loan	for	38.5	million	gulden,	shared	as
usual	with	Sina	and	Arnstein	&	Eskeles.	Another	loan	for	40	million	gulden	was
issued	by	the	same	banks	two	years	later.	Once	the	Rothschilds	had	regarded
peace	as	the	
sine	qua	non
	of	financial	stability;	but	an	armed	peace	was	more
profitable.
Small	wonder,	then,	that	Countess	Nesselrode	thought	James	“viceroy	and
even	King”	at	this	time.	When	he	told	her	that	he	knew	all	the	French	ministers,
saw	them	daily	and	complained	directly	to	the	King	if	the	policies	they	adopted
were	“contrary	to	the	interests	of	the	government,”	he	was	not	exaggerating.
“Comme	il	sait	que	
j’ai	beaucoup	à	perdre
	et	que	je	ne	désire	que	la	tranquillité,
il	a	toute	confi-	ance	en	moi,	m’écoute	et	tient	compte	de	tout	ce	que	je	lui	dis”:
in	that	sentence,	with	its	subtle	reminder	of	the	regime’s	financial	reliance	on	the
Rothschilds,	lies	the	key	to	James’s	power	over	the	“bourgeois	monarch.”	When
Heine	called	James	a	“weathercock,”	he	was	thus	underestimating	the	extent	to
which	he	could	influence	the	direction	of	the	wind.	Throughout	the	period	from
1840	to	1847,	Rothschild	financial	support	for	Guizot	was	effectively
conditional	on	his	avoiding	outright	conflict	with	Britain—and	devoting	a	rising
share	of	the	proceeds	to	constructing	railways	rather	than	fortifications.	At	times
even	Nat	and	his	brothers	were	surprised	by	the	extent	of	their	uncle’s	leverage

--- Page 536 ---
in	Paris.	When	an	Anglo-French	argument	over	the	Pacific	island	of	Tahiti	blew
up	and	then	blew	over	in	1844,	Nat	remarked,	“His	Majesty	was	amazingly
polite	and	almost	kissed	him	so	pleased	was	he,”	crediting—erroneously—the
Rothschilds	with	having	restrained	Peel	in	London.
Nevertheless,	there	were	limits	to	James’s	power,	just	as	there	had	been	limits
to	the	Rothschilds’	power	in	the	1830s.	A	more	serious	Anglo-French	dispute
over	Spain	gave	James	a	real	scare	in	1846-7,	when	it	appeared	that	Louis
Philippe’s	determination	to	marry	his	son	to	the	Spanish	Queen’s	sister	might	be
seized	on	by	Palmerston	as	a	
casus	belli
.	James	rushed	back	and	forth,	trying	to
get	the	French	to	agree	to	an	Anglo-Spanish	trade	treaty	as	a	kind	of
compensation	for	the	Montpensier	marriage,	but	Guizot	on	this	occasion	stood
his	ground.	James’s	letter	to	London	of	September	26	gives	a	good	insight	into
his	unease:
We	are	extremely	anxious	.	.	.	for,	as	I	was	told	by	the	English	Minister	[Lord
Normanby],	he	is	very	concerned	that	they	may	take	very	firm	measures.	I	can’t
imagine	that	they	will	immediately	issue	a	declaration	of	war.	The	truth	is	that
Montpensier	is	due	to	depart	[for	Spain]	on	Monday.	Well,	Guizot	said	to	me
that	if	England	were	to	issue	a	declaration	of	war	then	the	wedding	will	[still]
take	place	.	.	.	Well,	my	dear	nephews,	there	is	a	lot	of	ill	feeling.	I	did	not
imagine	that	it	would	be	so	bad	and	I	tell	you	we	must	be	careful	because	in	the
end,	something	or	other	will	happen.	The	[English]	Minister	said	to	me,	“We
can’t	sit	by	calmly	and	watch	the	situation	unfold.”	Whether	he	made	this
comment	so	that	I	should	then	repeat	it	only	God	knows	.	.	.	I	tend	to	see	the
future	as	rather	bleak.
James	went	so	far	as	to	propose	to	Guizot	that	Montpensier	renounce	any
claim	of	his	heirs	to	the	Spanish	throne.	But,	as	Anthony	reported	nervously,
“Guizot	thinks	that	we	have	been	intriguing	against	him	and	you	have	no	idea
how	careful	we	must	be	.	.	.	I	assure	you	I	am	very	anxious—the	French	do	not
want	war	and	cannot	go	to	war,	but	they	make	things	quite	as	bad	as	one.”
Indeed,	Nat	declined	to	relay	to	Louis	Philippe	a	letter	from	Lionel	which
evidently	contained	some	strong	Palmerstonian	meat:
The	arguments	of	our	worthy	uncle	in	favor	of	the	alliance	between	England	&
France	are	quite	conclusive	but	the	suppositions	of	my	Ld	Palmerston	in	the
event	of	the	Queen	of	Spain	being	poisoned,	of	her	not	having	any	children	&	of
its	being	the	Queen	dowager’s	interest	not	to	let	her	daughter	breed[,]	that	the
present	King	of	Spain	&	the	D[uc]	of	Mont[pensier]	wd	fight	&	the	Ld	knows

--- Page 537 ---
what,	wd	have	a	bad	effect	on	our	statesmen	&	make	them	believe	Ld	P	.	.	.	had
talked	a	lot	of	nonsense	with	you—I	should	be	sorry	to	be	the	bearer	of	such	a
missive.
By	October	1846	James	was	in	deep	gloom,	expecting	French	and	Austrian
troops	to	be	sent	to	Spain	at	any	moment	and	fretting	at	news	of	British	naval
increases.	When	he	went	to	see	Guizot	on	the	29th,	he	was	told	firmly	that
France	would	not	rule	out	a	future	claim	by	Montpensier’s	heirs	to	the	Spanish
throne.	The	nadir	came	when	James	sought	to	defend	Normanby’s	decision	not
to	attend	a	reception	for	Montpensier	after	his	return	from	Spain.	As	Nat
reported,	Guizot	was	“very	angry	.	.	.	[and]	told	him	that	situated	as	he	was	it
would	be	just	as	well	for	him	to	keep	his	opinion	to	himself.”	James	drew	the
obvious	conclusion:	“I	fear	that	all	diplomatic	communications	between	us	here
and	England	will	be	broken	and	the	Government	here	is	prepared	for	anything
that	may	happen.	Never	before	have	I	seen	the	Government	so	strong	and
stubborn.	I	think	that	even	if	this	were	to	lead	to	an	outbreak	of	war,	God	forbid,
they	would	still	not	change	their	stand.”	Even	when	he	sought	the	assistance	of
his	old	friend	the	King	of	the	Belgians	his	reception	was	“cold.”
Such	open	conflict	between	France	and	Britain	inevitably	placed	a	strain	on
cross-Channel	relations	within	the	Rothschild	family.	Alphonse	obviously	felt
resentful	of	Palmerston’s	aggressive	style	of	foreign	policy.	When	he	heard
Lionel	argue	the	British	case	during	a	visit	to	Paris	in	early	1847,	he	sarcastically
asked	him	if	French	policy	should	be	“to	kiss	humbly	the	British	lion’s	claws.”
Hannah	was	somewhat	embarrassed	to	find	both	Anselm	and	Carl	taking	the
French	side	when	she	visited	Frankfurt	at	around	the	same	time.	“I	now	and	then
have	rather	a	strong	conversation	with	our	friends,”	she	reported	to	Lionel,
“particularly	Anselm	who	is	an	enthusiast	in	favour	of	Guizot.”	Anselm	also
took	issue	with	James’s	unhappy	efforts	to	play	the	mediator,	advising	his	uncle
tersely	“not	to	mix	personally	in	the	evolution	of	great	historical	events.”
As	so	often	in	the	diplomacy	of	the	1830s	and	1840s,	the	war	which	everyone
feared	failed	to	break	out:	by	the	end	of	February	1847	James	was	able	to	report
that	the	Spanish	affair	was	as	good	as	settled:	“Apponyi	is	here	with	me	now	and
he	says	that	it	is	now	out	of	the	question	even	to	think	of	war	any	more.
Normanby	invited	him	and	Guizot	to	visit	him	on	Tuesday	week.	So	peace	will
be	made	over	a	bottle	of	champagne	and	I	and	my	dear	wife	will	be	present	to
witness	it,	God	willing.”	Yet	the	champagne	cork	was	scarcely	out	the	bottle
when	Palmerston	seized	on	a	new	bone	of	contention:	Greek	arrears	on	British-
held	bonds.	This	was	the	cue	for	another	Anglo-French	war	of	words,	with	the

--- Page 538 ---
Rothschilds	once	again	acting	as	reluctant	messengers.	“Guizot	told	the	Baron,”
reported	Nat	wearily	in	April	1847,	“that	England	would	be	alone	in	her
proceedings	against	Greece	.	.	.	&	if	she	(England)	were	to	kick	up	a	row	about
the	stupid	business	.	.	.	[Guizot]	wd	be	able	to	return	the	compliment	&	get	his
country	into	such	a	state	that	it	wd	be	very	hot	for	every	body—do	not	repeat
this	at	all	events	in	these	terms	or	as	coming	from	us.”
And	even	if	war	never	came	between	the	powers,	there	was	a	second	danger—
one	which	the	Rothschilds	were	inclined	to	overlook.	For	the	tendency	for	so
many	European	states	to	run	deficits	in	the	1840s	meant	more	than	just	good
business	for	their	bankers.	It	was	also	a	symptom	of	a	fundamental	political
malaise	within	those	states.	Military	expenditure	was	not,	in	fact,	the	sole	cause
of	the	deficits	of	the	mid-	1840s.	Of	similar	importance,	as	we	shall	see,	were
state	subsidies	for	railway	construction,	combined	with	stagnant	or	declining	tax
revenues—a	little-regarded	side	effect	of	slackening	economic	growth.	As	the
Rothschilds	insatiably	added	one	state	after	another	to	the	list	of	their	clients,
they	could	congratulate	themselves	on	the	diplomatic	influence	this	gave	them.
The	crises	over	Belgium	and	Syria	really	did	seem	to	suggest	that	war	could	be
averted	by	discreet	manipulation	of	the	European	states’	purse-strings.	But
financial	power	was	not	absolute.	Above	all,	it	depended	on	the	internal	stability
of	the	European	states.	When	that	could	no	longer	be	maintained,	the
Rothschilds	proved	almost	as	vulnerable	as	the	princes	and	ministers	whose
purse-strings	they	held.	In	the	end,	it	was	not	a	war	which	brought	the	defensive
walls	of	the	July	Monarchy	tumbling	down	but	a	revolution;	and	against	that
threat	the	fortifications	round	Paris	offered	no	protection.

--- Page 539 ---
FIFTEEN
“Satan	Harnessed”:	Playing	at	Railways	(1830-1846)
They’ve	got	the	Devil	into	reins!
—EICHENDORFF,	
DAS	INCOGNITO
	
	
I	know	just	how	these	bankers	think.	What	they	are	after	is	a	chance	of	immediate
profit,	not	an	affair	which	they	have	to	bury	in	their	portfolios	for	eighteen	months,
no	matter	how	good	it	may	be.
—CASIMIR	LECOMTE,	DECEMBER	1841
	
	
	
	
In	1836	the	composer	Rossini	travelled	by	train	for	the	first	time.	He	was	on	his
way	from	Paris	to	Frankfurt,	and	took	advantage	of	the	recently	built	lines	in
Belgium	to	speed	up	his	journey.	He	loathed	the	experience,	refusing	ever	to
travel	by	train	again;	but	it	inspired	him	nonetheless.	In	an	ironical	tribute	to	the
new	mode	of	transport,	he	composed	a	short	piece	for	solo	piano	entitled	“Un
petit	train	de	plaisir	(Comico	Imitatif	),”	a	humorous	musical	evocation	of	a
railway	journey	which	culminates	in	a	derailment,	the	deaths	of	two	passengers,
and	their	journeys	to	Heaven	and	Hell.	A	sardonic	coda	evokes	the	celebrations
of	the	wealthier	victim’s	heirs.
Disasters	are,	of	course,	perennially	fascinating,	and	the	nineteenth	century
had	no	shortage	of	both	natural	and	man-made	calamities	to	stir	the
contemporary	imagination.	The	1830s	and	1840s,	in	particular,	saw	a	succession
of	failed	harvests,	great	fires	and	epidemics,	providing	encouragement	to	the
various	idealist	and	materialist	millenarians	who	prophesied	an	impending

--- Page 540 ---
apocalypse	in	the	years	before	1848.	Railway	accidents,	however,	were	an
entirely	novel	kind	of	disaster,	and	they	provided	a	distinctive	source	of	artistic
inspiration.	If	the	railways	were	talked	up	by	the	engineers	and	financiers	who
built	them	as	the	supreme	achievements	of	the	modern	age,	their	susceptibility	to
derailments	and	other	spectacular	mishaps	enthralled	more	sceptical	observers;
for	the	railway	accident	was	in	many	ways	the	perfect	symbol	of	that	crisis	of
capitalism	which	malcontents	on	both	the	left	and	the	right	awaited.	In	his	comic
play	
Das	Incognito
,	for	example,	the	romantically	
inclined	German	playwright
Joseph	von	Eichendorff	brought	the	drama	to	a	noisy	climax	with	an	on-stage
railway	disaster:
The	sentry	sounds	the	fire	alarm,	fleeing	peasants	burst	suddenly	on	to	the	stage
.
SOME.	Help!	Flames!
OTHERS.	They’ve	got	the	Devil	into	reins!
OTHERS.	Nothing	but	murder	and	smoke!
VOICES	
off
.	Alas!	The	locomotive	has	run	amok!
FIRST	SERVANT.	No,	that	really	is	impertinence,	It’s	hit	the	city	battlements.
Immense	crash,	followed	by	a	cloud	of	dust.	As	the	dust	clears,	a	toppled
locomotive	and	wrecked	carriages	can	be	seen	.	.	.
Quite	apart	from	relishing	the	pyrotechnics	involved	in	such	a	scene,	a
contemporary	audience	would	have	appreciated	the	potent	image	of	a	diabolical,
renegade	locomotive	smashing	down	the	walls	of	an	ancient	German	town.	For,
by	the	time	Eichendorff	wrote	
Das	Incognito
,	the	railways’	political	potential
was	already	widely	understood.	To	the	nationalist	economist	Friedrich	List,	the
railway	was	“a	tonic	for	the	national	spirit”	and	“a	tight	belt	around	the	loins	of
the	German	nation”	which—in	conjunction	with	the	Prussian	customs	union
established	in	1834—would	bring	about	the	long-overdue	“internal	unification”
of	Germany.	For	this	and	other	reasons,	railways	made	conservatives	like
Metternich	uneasy:	the	“transformation	in	political	and	social	conditions”	which
he	saw	as	their	inevitable	consequence	did	not	seem	likely	to	assist	him	in
defending	the	Central	European	status	quo.
That	the	Rothschilds	came	to	play	a	leading	role	in	the	development	of	the
European	railway	network	might	seem,	at	first	sight,	natural.	It	was,	after	all,
Lionel	who	prevailed	upon	Rossini	to	take	his	first	and	only	train	ride,	and
Amschel	who	(allegedly)	provided	the	inspiration	for	one	of	the	principal
characters	in	
Das	Incognito
	—the	royal	adviser,	Paphnatius.	By	the	late	1840s
the	Rothschilds	had	firmly	established	themselves	as	the	pre-eminent	private

--- Page 541 ---
financiers	of	continental	railway	construction.	Yet	there	was	nothing	inevitable
about	this.	Indeed,	the	move	from	commercial	and	public	finance	into	industrial
finance	was	in	many	ways	an	unusual	one,	which	relatively	few	established
bankers	even	attempted,	much	less	achieved.
The	most	obvious	illustration	of	this	point	is	Nathan’s	almost	complete	lack	of
involvement	in	industrial	finance	in	Britain.	In	many	ways,	he	of	all	the
Rothschilds	ought	to	have	been	the	most	keen	to	participate	in	the	burgeoning
new	industrial	sectors	of	the	early	nineteenth	century;	after	all,	it	was	he	who
had	spent	nearly	a	decade	as	a	cotton	merchant	and	(for	a	time)	manufacturer.
Yet	apart	from	an	apparently	abortive	mining	venture	in	North	Wales	in	1825,
Nathan	had	virtually	nothing	to	do	with	industrial	finance	once	he	had	moved	to
London	and	established	himself	as	a	banker.	In	particular,	he	took	no	part
whatever	in	the	great	railway	“mania”	which	followed	the	opening	of	the	first
fully	fledged	passenger	and	freight	line	between	Liverpool	and	Machester	in
1830.	When	James	visited	the	north	of	England	in	1843,	the	traffic	on	this	line
profoundly	impressed	him:	“What	is	happening	here	with	the	railways	is	quite
amazing	and	had	I	come	here	earlier	we	would	most	certainly	have	built	this
railway.	It	must	yield	enormous	sums.	Never	have	I	seen	so	many	people	as	[are
travelling]	between	Liverpool	and	Manchester.”
Yet	his	brother	had	sat	idly	by	throughout	the	pioneering	phase	of	British
railways.	A	year	later	Nathan’s	wife	Hannah	wrote	to	her	eldest	son	in	a	similar
vein,	as	if	he	had	yet	to	be	persuaded	of	the	utility	of	the	new	form	of	transport:
The	rail	road	travelling	is	so	productive	of	good	and	general	advantages	to	all
classes	of	society	[as]	to	make	us	grateful	for	this	scientific	invention—to	this
we	are	indebted	for	the	earliest	information[;]	from	our	most	distant	friends	we
are	favoured	with	the	most	constant	and	frequent	communications,	the	loss	of
their	society	is	lessened	from	the	facility	of	obtaining	this	and	affords	great
consolation	and	adds	much	to	our	enjoyment	of	life	by	this	wonderful	rapid
communication.
Hannah	was	evangelical—indeed	visionary—in	her	enthusiasm.	In	1846	she
returned	to	the	subject	with	equal	warmth	in	a	letter	to	her	eldest	daughter
Charlotte:
There	is	some	luxury	in	going	in	a	carriage	and	[being]	propelled	by	horses:	but
the	many	delays	and	other	inconveniences	one	is	subject	to	give	us	a	decided
preference	[for]	railroad	travelling	.	.	.	and	[although]	it	may	be	objected	to	by
many	and	particularly	by	the	refined,	for	my	part	I	prefer	the	amusement	of

--- Page 542 ---
scenes	and	the	bustle	of	changes	one	gains	.	.	.	by	this	mode	of	travelling.
The	striking	thing	about	these	letters	is	that	she	felt	the	need	to	detail	the
advantages	of	railways,	particularly	to	the	younger	generation	who	might	have
been	expected	to	take	these	for	granted.	Clearly	they	did	not.	Indeed,	Hannah
had	to	conclude	her	effusion	to	Lionel	with	an	apology:	“I	feel	I	am	encroaching
on	your	patience	and	you	will	say	I	am	an	enthusiast	for	rail	roads.”	We	know
for	certain	that	his	brother	Nat	was	the	reverse:	in	1848	he	declined	to	meet
Lionel	at	Calais	because	“railway	travelling	makes	my	head	ache	so	terribly	that
I	really	can	not	make	up	my	mind	to	a	30	hours	shaking.”
Why	was	Hannah	the	sole	rail	“enthusiast”	among	the	English	Rothschilds,	as
she	appears	to	have	been?	Writing	more	than	four	decades	after	the	banker’s
death,	Disraeli	suggested	that	Nathan	(in	the	guise	of	“Mr	Neuchatel”)	had
anticipated	the	inevitable	bust	which	brought	the	first	railway	boom	to	an	abrupt
end.	But	Nathan	was	scarcely	risk-averse	in	this	sense.	It	seems	more	plausible
that	he	preferred	to	concentrate	on	the	business	he	knew	best,	namely
government	and	commercial	finance.	His	advice	to	Thomas	Fowell	Buxton’s	son
on	this	point	bears	repeating:
“If	I	were	to	listen	to	all	the	projects	proposed	to	me,	I	should	ruin	myself	very
soon.	Stick	to	one	business,	young	man,”	he	said	to	Edward,	“stick	to	your
brewery,	and	you	may	be	the	great	brewer	of	London.	Be	a	brewer,	and	a	banker,
and	a	merchant,	and	a	manufacturer,	and	you	will	soon	be	in	the	Gazette.”
It	is	possible,	though	it	cannot	be	proven,	that	Nathan	had	in	fact	burnt	his
fingers	in	1825,	when	mining	companies	like	the	one	he	contemplated	came	to
grief	in	large	numbers.	It	is	also	possible	that	he	saw	too	late	that	he	had	missed
a	golden	opportunity	in	steering	clear	of	home	railways;	but	it	is	unlikely.	In	fact,
such	specific	explanations	are	probably	unnecessary;	for	the	English
Rothschilds’	lack	of	interest	in	domestic	industry	was	wholly	unexceptional	in
the	context	of	the	mid-nineteenth-century	City	of	London.	To	put	it	simply,	the
overwhelmingly	commercial	and	overseas	orientation	of	the	major	London
banks—with	the	single	exception	
of	Glyn’s—disinclined	them	to	involve
themselves	in	railways.	At	the	same	time,	the	ease	with	which	railway
companies	were	able	to	sell	their	shares	and	scrip	directly	to	the	public—
sometimes	even	before	they	had	secured	parliamentary	incorporation—made
banking	intermediation	more	or	less	superfluous.	We	know	from	his	reports	as
Austrian	consul	that	Lionel	paid	attention	to	the	development	of	the	British
railway	system,	as	well	as	to	the	almost	equally	revolutionary	impact	of	steam

--- Page 543 ---
power	in	sea	transport.	But	it	is	also	evident	from	such	communications	that	he
and	his	brothers’	principal	interest	lay	in	exporting	such	innovations	
after
	they
had	been	tried	and	tested	in	Britain.	Where	British	industry	did	require	banking
facilities,	it	tended	to	turn	to	the	provincial	joint	stock	banks	which	proliferated
in	the	1830s	and	1840s,	rather	than	to	the	City	banks.
In	France,	by	contrast,	the	so-called	
haute	banque
	in	Paris	was	not	as	wary	of
industrial	investment	as	the	City.	From	the	1820s	onwards,	there	were	repeated
efforts	to	organise	new	kinds	of	financial	institution	large	enough	and	ambitious
enough	to	undertake	major	infrastructural	investments,	notably	the	digging	of
canals.	But	the	various	projects	like	the	one	instigated	by	Laffitte	in	1825	(the
Société	Commanditaire	de	l’Industrie)	foundered	because	of	government
opposition.	In	particular,	the	Banque	de	France	was	extremely	suspicious	of
attempts	to	create	joint-stock	banks—hence	the	need	to	use	the	word	
caisse
.	This
suspicion	was	shared	by	James.	When	Laffitte	revived	his	1825	scheme	twelve
years	on	with	a	proposal	for	a	
caisse
	with	a	capital	of	up	to	250	million	francs	to
be	raised	by	selling	shares,	he	was	sceptical,	just	as	he	would	be	when	the
Pereires	attempted	a	similar	(but	better-timed)	institutional	challenge	to	the
traditional	Parisian	banking	structures	in	the	1850s.	There	was	no	indication
before	1835	that	James	would	be	any	more	interested	than	Nathan	in	expanding
the	scope	of	his	financial	operations.
Yet	a	subtle	shift	in	Rothschild	policy	can	be	detected	in	the	mid-1830s.	We
have	already	seen	how	the	need	for	improved	securities	for	Spanish	government
loans	led	Nathan	and	James	to	acquire	rights	over	the	Almadén	mercury	mines.
This	did	not	mean	that	the	Rothschilds	themselves	directly	organised	the
business	of	mining,	of	course.	All	they	were	buying	was	a	monopoly	over	the
sale
	of	Spanish	mercury	once	it	had	been	extracted.	Nevertheless,	the	success	of
this	venture	encouraged	the	brothers—and	Salomon	in	particular—to	seek
similar	arrangements	with	other	governments.	It	was,	for	example,	the	logical
complement	of	the	Almadén	deal	to	secure	a	monoply	over	the	mercury	mines	in
Austrian-controlled	Istria	and	Dalmatia.	It	also	made	sense	to	become	more
directly	involved	in	the	physical	process	of	refining	silver	and	gold	and	minting
coins,	though	it	was	not	until	the	1840s	(in	France)	and	the	1850s	(in	England)
that	the	Rothschilds	formalised	their	involvement	in	this	industry.
As	bankers,	the	Rothschilds	naturally	had	an	interest	in,	and	experience	of,	the
process	of	manufacturing	money.	In	the	same	way,	it	might	be	said,	they	had	an
interest	in	any	technological	innovation	that	accelerated	communications	within
Europe,	given	their	legendary	enthusiasm	for	the	rapid	transmission	of	financial

--- Page 544 ---
and	political	news.	Railways	undoubtedly	represented	a	revolutionary
breakthrough	in	communications;	yet	they	were	in	some	ways	less	exciting	to
the	Rothschilds	than	might	at	first	be	assumed.	From	the	vantage	point	of	the
1830s,	it	would	obviously	be	a	very	long	time	before	enough	railway	track	had
been	laid	to	reduce	by	much	the	time	it	took	to	relay	a	letter	from	Frankfurt	to
London.	And	because	it	was	letters	
and	financial	documents	which	the
Rothschilds	were	primarily	interested	in	transporting,	they	stood	to	gain
relatively	less	from	the	development	of	railways	than	merchants	and
industrialists	who	wished	to	transport	bulky	commodities	like	coal	and	grain,	or
regular	travellers	who	latched	on	to	the	railways	as	an	easy	way	to	transport
themselves.	In	any	case,	trains	could	not	give	the	Rothschilds	any	advantage
even	when	they	did	begin	to	transport	mail;	for	what	the	Rothschilds	could	use
their	rivals	could	use	too.
For	this	reason,	the	Rothschilds’	interest	in	the	development	of	railways	must
be	understood	primarily	in	financial	rather	than	developmental	terms.	What
excited	Nathan’s	brothers—to	be	precise,	what	excited	Salomon	and	James—
was	not	really	the	prospect	of	more	rapid	and	more	comfortable	travel	from	Paris
to	Brussels,	though	they	doubtless	looked	forward	to	this.	It	was	plainly	not	the
substantial	“social	savings”	with	which	railways	have	retrospectively	been
credited	by	economic	historians,	though	the	Rothschilds	appreciated	that
railways	would	not	only	boost	the	demand	for	coal,	iron	and	steam	engines	but
also	integrate	regional	commodity	markets	and	facilitate	labour	mobility.	It	was
the	short-run	benefits	of	railway	finance	which	initially	attracted	them;	in
particular,	the	profits	to	be	made	from	issuing	railway	shares	to	the	public.
In	essence,	the	Rothschilds	were	inclined	to	see	railway	shares	as	surrogate
state	bonds	at	a	time	(the	mid-1830s)	when	European	governments	were	issuing
fewer	and	fewer	new	bonds.	And	because—unlike	in	Britain—continental
governments	became	indirectly	or	directly	involved	in	railway	construction	from
a	relatively	early	stage,	this	was	not	an	unreasonable	notion.	Indeed,	in	the	case
of	Belgium	as	well	as	some	of	the	South	German	states,	the	building	of	national
railway	systems	was	actually	financed	by	the	sale	of	state	bonds	and	carried	out
by	the	public	sector.	The	Rothschilds	were	perfectly	willing	to	underwrite	such
loans:	after	all,	a	state	bond	was	a	state	bond,	a	relatively	secure	asset,	however
the	money	raised	was	used.	Of	course,	the	case	was	slightly	different	in	those
countries	(such	as	France)	where	the	state	did	not	act	so	directly,	but	contented
itself	with	licensing	and	subsidising	private	companies.	Nevertheless,	the	fact	of
state	involvement	meant	that	it	was	comparatively	easy	for	the	Rothschilds	to

--- Page 545 ---
apply	their	traditional	underwriting	techniques	to	the	sale	of	railway	shares.	In
essence,	this	was	how	the	Vienna	and	Paris	houses	were	drawn	into	the	business
of	railway	finance.	However,	the	realities	of	railway	construction	made	it	hard
for	both	Salomon	and	James	to	sustain	the	arm’s-length	role	they	had	initially
envisaged.	It	took	time	to	secure	a	railway	concession;	time	to	acquire	the	land
required;	time	to	build	the	line	and	stations—usually	longer	than	expected.	Even
once	a	line	had	opened,	it	took	time	to	build	up	a	steady	level	of	freight	and
passenger	traffic,	and	it	was	very	rare	that	this	level	matched	original
projections,	which	were	largely	a	matter	of	guesswork.	Investors	in	railway
shares	were	therefore	not	like	investors	in	bonds,	who	could	count	on	a
predictable	and	steady	flow	of	interest	from	states,	barring	some	unanticipated
revolution	or	military	disaster.	Railway	investors	who	bought	shares	were
buying	a	stake	in	a	concern	which	would	only	begin	to	pay	unspecified
dividends	in	the	future.	It	was	therefore	practically	impossible	for	the	bankers
who	marketed	such	shares	to	be	indifferent	to	the	future	profitability	of	the
companies	concerned.	Just	as	the	Rothschilds	could	not	ignore	the	politics	of	the
states	whose	bonds	they	marketed,	they	could	not	ignore	the	management	of	the
railways	whose	shares	they	sold.	The	short-term	attractions	of	railway	finance
thus	tended	to	lead	the	brothers	into	longer-term	commitments.
Moreover,	those	commitments	in	turn	exposed	the	Rothschilds	to	new	and
unwelcome	kinds	of	public	attention.	For	railways	had	in	many	ways	a	more
direct	and	perceptible	impact	on	the	lives	of	ordinary	men	and	women	than	the
states	which	notionally	governed	them;	and	the	Rothschilds	were	in	some	ways
much	more	publicly	conspicuous	as	railway	financiers	than	they	had	ever	been
as	the	financiers	of	states.	In	theory,	ordinary	people	might	have	complained	that
the	indirect	taxes	they	paid	on	articles	of	consumption	were	partly	going	towards
paying	the	Rothschilds	their	commissions	and	the	interest	on	the	bonds	they	held
for	themselves;	in	practice,	that	connection	was	rarely	made	in	the	Vormärz
period.	The	impact	of	railway	companies	on	everyday	life,	by	contrast,	was	more
obvious,	particularly	when	things	went	wrong—and	never	more	glaringly	than
when	there	were	railway	accidents.	One	unintended	consequence	of	their
involvement	with	railway	finance	was	that	the	Rothschilds	were	subjected	to	a
new	and	militant	kind	of	criticism,	in	which	they	were	cast	not	as	the	mere
paymasters	of	reactionary	regimes,	but	as	exploitative	capitalists	in	their	own
right.	Interestingly,	it	was	in	the	critiques	of	the	early	railway	era	that,	for	the
first	time,	the	family’s	Judaism	began	to	be	thought	of	less	as	a	religious	identity
and	more	as	a	racial	explanation	for	their	alleged	exploitativeness.
1

--- Page 546 ---
	
Salomon’s	Line:	The	Nordbahn
Given	the	revolutionary	implications	of	railways,	it	is	perhaps	surprising	that	the
first	Rothschild	railway	should	have	been	conceived	and	constructed	in
Habsburg	territory.	Salomon	was	not	the	most	enterprising	of	the	Rothschild
brothers;	indeed,	to	an	extent	he	had	allowed	himself	to	lapse	into	the	rather	old-
fashioned	role	of	“court	Jew”	to	Metternich,	with	whose	political	objectives	he
increasingly	tended	to	identify.	Nor	did	he	himself	much	enjoy	the	experience	of
railway	travel;	as	late	as	1846	he	still	refused	to	take	advantage	of	the	rail	link
through	Belgium	when	going	from	Frankfurt	to	Paris.	Taken	as	a	whole,
moreover,	the	Habsburg	Empire	was	very	far	from	being	the	most	economically
dynamic	state	in	Europe;	and	the	suspicious	attitude	of	its	bureaucracy	towards
any	innovation	which	might	have	unpredictable	social	side-effects	was
notorious.	Yet	it	was	Salomon	who	became	the	first	Rothschild	to	interest
himself	directly	in	a	railway	project	in	1830.	It	was	not	his	own	idea	but	that	of	a
professor	at	the	Vienna	Polytechnic	Institute	named	Franz	Xavier	Riepel,	a
mining	expert	who	believed	that	the	new	technology	of	railways	could	be	used
to	link	the	salt	mines	of	Wieliczka	in	Galicia	and	the	iron	and	coal	mines	of
Moravian	Ostrau	(Ostrava)	to	the	imperial	capital	more	than	200	miles	to	the
south-west.	Nevertheless,	it	is	a	tribute	to	Salomon’s	vision—or	perhaps	to	his
growing	financial	foolhardiness—that	he	regarded	this	scheme	as	practicable.	To
say	the	least,	this	was	an	ambitiously	long	line	for	the	time.	Even	more
remarkably,	Salomon	seems	to	have	envisaged	from	an	early	stage	that	it	would
also	be	extended	southwards	from	Vienna	to	Trieste	on	the	Adriatic.	Such	things
were	possible	in	England,	where	Salomon	despatched	Riepel	(along	with
Leopold	von	Wertheimstein)	to	acquire	some	practical	experience	of	railway
building	and	operation.	But	was	it	realistic	to	embark	on	such	a	long	line	in
Habsburg	territory?
Initially,	the	biggest	obstacle	to	the	scheme	was	political	inertia	in	Vienna
itself.	
On	the	basis	of	a	report	drafted	by	Riepel	after	his	visit	to	England,
Salomon	submitted	a	petition	to	the	Emperor	to	allow	land	to	be	acquired	for	the
project.	Predictably,	it	was	shelved,	the	Crown	Prince	observing	with	true
Habsburg	insight	that	“Even	the	coach	to	Kagran	isn’t	always	full.”	The	postal
authorities	also	expressed	reservations,	fearing	a	threat	to	their	monopoly.
Undaunted,	Salomon	pressed	on.	He	took	over	the	horse-drawn	railway	line
linking	the	Danube	and	the	Gmündensee	from	an	insolvent	French	engineer
named	Zola	(the	novelist’s	father),	and	commissioned	Riepel	to	investigate	the

--- Page 547 ---
best	possible	route	for	the	line	to	Moravia	and	Galicia.	Finally,	in	April	1835—
just	six	weeks	after	the	death	of	the	Emperor	Franz	—he	felt	ready	to	renew	his
appeal	for	imperial	and	royal	backing.	This	time	he	was	successful—an	outcome
which	probably	owed	more	to	Metternich’s	and	Kolowrat’s	decision	to	back	the
scheme	than	to	the	credibility	of	Salomon’s	claims	that	“the	achievement	of	this
great	means	of	communication	would	be	of	benefit	to	the	State	and	the	public
weal,	no	less	than	to	those	who	join	in	the	undertaking”	and	that	the	proposal
was	“based	.	.	.	strongly	upon	the	interests	of	the	common	weal”	and	“entirely
patriotic”	motives.
It	was	agreed	that	a	joint-stock	company	should	be	set	up	to	construct	a	line
between	Vienna	and	Bochnia	(south-east	of	Cracow).	As	a	second	thought,	to
ensure	that	there	would	be	no	royal	change	of	mind,	Salomon	suggested	that	the
line	be	called	the	“Kaiser-Ferdinands-Nordbahn.”	This	appeal	to	royal	vanity
was	successful.	For	good	measure,	he	also	sought—as	he	put	it	to	Metternich—
to	“take	such	steps	as	may	be	appropriate	for	inducing	such	statesmen	as	are	the
bearers	of	honoured	names	to	place	themselves	as	patrons	at	the	head	of	this
national	undertaking.”	Specifically,	he	sought	to	enlist	Metternich,	Kolowrat	and
the	head	of	the	imperial	Treasury,	Count	Mittrowsky,	as	board	members.	This
use	of	noble	names	to	lend	respectability	to	new	companies—in	return	for
financial	perks—was	a	device	widely	employed	in	England	and	elsewhere;	in
the	Austrian	case	it	was	essential	to	overcome	royal	and	bureaucratic	opposition.
In	fact,	the	benefits	of	the	Nordbahn—as	the	line	was	usually	known—might
well	have	ended	up	being	greater	for	the	“common	weal”	than	for	those	who
actually	invested	their	money	in	it.	The	line	was	supposed	to	take	ten	years	to
build.	The	final	stretch	to	Bochnia	was	not	completed	until	1858.	It	was
supposed	to	cost	12	million	gulden	(£1	million),	roughly	16,600	gulden	per	mile.
The	actual	figure	was	closer	to	27,750	gulden.	Yet—as	so	often	in	the	history	of
railways—short-term	benefits	to	investors	tended	to	compensate	for	(or	at	least
to	distract	from)	such	long-term	cost	overruns.	From	the	moment	the	concession
was	granted,	demand	for	shares	in	the	firm	dramatically	outstripped	supply.	Of
12,000	shares	(each	worth	1,000	gulden),	Salomon	retained	8,000,	so	that	just
4,000	were	offered	to	the	public.	There	were	27,490	applications,	driving	the
share	price	up	well	above	par.
These	short-term	capital	gains	help	explain	why	other	Austrian	bankers
hurried	to	compete—even	when	they	realised	better	than	Salomon	the
formidable	practical	problems	involved.	No	sooner	had	he	secured	the	Nordbahn
concession	than	Sina	petitioned	to	be	granted	the	concession	for	the	line	from

--- Page 548 ---
Vienna	to	Trieste,	a	petition	which	enjoyed	some	official	support	on	the	familiar
grounds	that	Sina,	unlike	Salomon,	was	Austrian	born	and	hence	a	Habsburg
subject.	It	is	not	wholly	apparent	why,	after	so	many	years	of	amicable	co-
operation	in	the	realm	of	Austrian	bond	issues,	the	major	Vienna	banks	failed	to
co-operate	over	railways;	but	Salomon	did	
not	fire	the	first	shot.	Indeed,	in
allowing	Sina	and	Arnstein	&	Eskeles	substantial	shareholdings	in	the	Nordbahn
and	according	them	due	influence	on	the	company’sIs	provisional	board	of
management,	he	was	singularly	accommodating.	Unfortunately,	the	other
bankers	appear	to	have	been	intent	on	some	sort	of	spoiling	operation.	At	the
second	general	meeting	of	the	Nordbahn,	Ludwig	von	Pereira	(a	partner	at
Arnstein	&	Eskeles)	launched	a	well-researched	technical	critique	of	the
engineering	plans	and	financial	projections,	a	move	which	succeeded	in	arousing
the	hitherto	dormant	anxieties	of	the	Emperor.	It	was	only	with	difficulty	that
Salomon	and	Riepel	were	able	to	rebut	Pereira’s	criticisms,	at	least	some	of
which,	it	must	be	said,	were	to	prove	quite	justified.	The	climax	of	this
prototypical	boardroom	battle	came	in	October	1836,	when	Salomon	moved	a
resolution	demanding	that	the	building	of	the	railway	be	commenced	or	the
company	liquidated.	With	76	out	of	the	83	votes	in	favour,	he	was	able	to	force
Sina	and	Eskeles	to	resign.
From	the	outset,	Salomon	had	intended	that	the	Nordbahn	should	be	the	basis
for	a	succession	of	branch	lines	to	the	major	cities	on	either	side	of	it:	his
original	petition	had	specifically	mentioned	subsidiary	lines	to	Brünn,	Olmütz
and	Troppau.	Even	while	he	was	locking	horns	with	Pereira—and	before	a	single
rail	had	been	laid	down—he	therefore	continued	to	secure	supplementary
concessions	from	the	government	to	allow	him	to	add	further	branches:	to
Pressburg,	to	Bielitz,	to	Deutsch-Wagram	and	so	on.	Work	finally	began	on	the
first	stretch	of	line	north	from	Vienna	in	1837,	and	trains	were	running	along	the
first	section	between	Deutsch-Wagram	and	Florisdorf	by	the	end	of	the
following	year.	It	was	not	until	1839,	however,	that	freight	and	passengers	began
to	be	carried	between	Vienna	and	Brünn,	so	that	for	more	than	two	years	the
company	was	pouring	money	into	materials	and	men	(some	14,000	in	all)	for	no
return,	and	was	kept	going	only	by	a	Rothschild	advance	of	some	8	million
gulden.	Small	wonder	Lionel	felt	it	advisable	to	reassure	Metternich	that	most
English	railways	“will	yield	a	profit	of	eight	to	ten	per	cent”;	there	was	no	sign
at	this	stage	that	the	Austrian	line	would	do	so,	and	its	shares	duly	fell	below	par.
As	Salomon	later	recalled,	the	Nordbahn	had	required	“the	expenditure	of	large
sums	of	money,	and	.	.	.	patient	waiting;	sacrifices	that	I	was	called	upon	to

--- Page 549 ---
make,	to	the	amount	of	several	hundred	thousand.”
Yet	from	1841	onwards	Salomon’s	senior	manager	Goldschmidt	began	to
detect	an	improvement	on	his	weekly	visits	to	monitor	traffic	at	the	main
terminus.	As	with	the	British	railways,	it	was	the	unexpectedly	large	amount	of
passenger	traffic—especially	families	of	day-trippers	on	Sundays—which	helped
to	boost	receipts.	As	early	as	1841	up	to	10,000	people	were	regularly	using	the
initial	stretch	of	line	from	Vienna	to	the	suburb	of	Vienna-Neustadt.
2
	In	1843	the
shares	rose	for	the	first	time	since	their	issue	above	par	to	103;	a	year	later	they
reached	129	and	by	1845	they	stood	at	no	less	than	228.	This	represented	a	huge
if	belated	capital	gain	to	the	original	investors—above	all,	to	Salomon	himself.
Yet	it	would	be	unjust	to	Salomon	to	suggest	that	he	operated	with	the	short-
term	speculative	gains	solely	in	mind.	On	the	contrary,	he	genuinely	does	seem
to	have	had	an	entrepreneurial	vision	of	an	integrated	Austrian	transport	system.
Not	only	did	he	envisage	from	the	outset	a	railway	which	would	link	Galicia	and
Moravia	to	the	imperial	capital	and	southwards	to	Italy;	he	hoped	also	to	extend
his	network	into	Hungary.	A	good	illustration	of	the	extraordinary—almost	mes
sianic—role	Salomon	saw	himself	playing	in	the	Habsburg	lands	in	this	period	is
provided	by	the	police	report	of	his	trip	to	Pressburg	in	June	1844	to	attend	a
meeting	of	the	Central	Hungarian	Railway	Company.	It	was	little	short	of	a	royal
visit.	The	Danube	steamer	made	an	unscheduled	stop	at	Königsplatz	to	allow
him	to	disembark.	The	occupants	of	rooms	at	the	Hotel	zur	Sonne	were
unceremoniously	evicted	from	their	rooms	to	make	way	for	the	Rothschild	party,
despite	the	fact	that	they	planned	to	return	to	Vienna	by	coach	that	night.	And
when	it	was	rumoured	that	the	mercurial	Hungarian	reformer	Istvàn	Széchényi—
who	was	already	running	his	own	Danube	steamship	company—intended	to
support	a	challenge	by	Sina	to	Salomon’s	dominance	of	the	Central	Hungarian
board,	the	venue	of	the	meeting	was	hastily	changed.	To	cap	it	all,	Salomon
responded	to	the	flattering	toasts	proposed	in	his	honour	that	evening	by	Carl
Esterházy,	Andrássy	and	other	pro-Rothschild	bigwigs	with	a	pompous	speech,
concluding	that	he	would	follow	the	example	of	his	schoolmaster	who	told	his
pupils:	“I	am	going	but	I	am	leaving	my	cloak	behind,	and	it	will	tell	me	what
everybody	has	done,	and	how	they	have	behaved	in	my	absence.”	Salomon’s
self-importance	can	hardly	have	been	diminished	by	the	enthusiastic	welcome	he
had	received	earlier	in	the	day	from	the	local	Jewish	community,	a	crowd	of
whom	gathered	on	the	river	bank	to	greet	him.	“Count	Esterházy,”	the	police
observer	reported,

--- Page 550 ---
frustrated	their	intention	of	according	the	Baron	a	special	welcome,	as	he	would
not	allow	the	Jews	to	carry	out	their	scheme	of	letting	off	forty	rockets.	They
were	restrained	even	from	shouting	their	welcome	which	in	view	of	the	ill
feeling	between	the	citizens	and	the	Jews	here,	might	easily	have	led	to	a	breach
of	the	peace.
Esterházy	might	be	willing	to	ingratiate	himself	with	the	Austrian	railway	king,
but	he	had	no	desire	to	let	Salomon’s	poor	co-religionists	bask	in	his	reflected
glory.
Nor	was	Salomon	content	to	dominate	the	development	of	the	Habsburg
railway	system.	He	also	pursued	a	strategy	of	“vertical	integration”	(bringing
together	different	stages	in	a	particular	economic	process	under	a	single
corporate	roof	).	As	early	as	1831	he	saw	the	need	to	foster	independent	Austrian
supplies	of	iron	and	steel,	so	that	the	development	of	the	imperial	railways
would	not	be	reliant	on	imports	from	the	foundries	of	Britain.	Although	his	first
bid	to	purchase	the	Witkowitz	Ironworks	company	in	the	Ostravian	coalfields
was	unsuccessful	(because	as	a	Jew	he	was	prohibited	from	owning	land),	he
was	able	to	lease	the	works	indirectly	from	the	Archibishop	of	Olmütz,	Count
Chotek,	in	1841	by	setting	up	a	company	in	partnership	with	the	banker
Geymüller.	When	Geymüller	went	bankrupt	soon	after,	Salomon	petitioned
again	to	be	allowed	to	buy	the	works	and	this	time	was	successful.	The
Witkowitz	works—the	first	in	the	Habsburg	Empire	to	use	the	puddling	process
necessary	for	the	production	of	rails—was	to	remain	one	of	the	Austrian	house’s
principal	industrial	assets	for	almost	a	century.	At	the	same	time,	Salomon	began
to	interest	himself	in	coal	mining.
Finally,	Salomon’s	vision	of	a	rail	link	from	Vienna	to	Trieste	led	him	to
expand	Rothschild	interests	beyond	land	transportation	into	shipping,	taking	a
leading	role	in	the	foundation	of	the	Austrian	Steamship	Company	or	Austrian
Lloyd	in	1835.	When	the	company	got	into	difficulties	in	the	1830s,	Salomon
gave	it	the	same	life-saving	injection	of	capital	he	gave	the	Nordbahn	at	the
same	time,	in	the	form	of	a	500,000	gulden	loan	in	return	for	a	mortgage	on	the
company’s	seven	steamers.	As	
with	the	Nordbahn,	the	investment	proved	a
sound	one,	with	profits	rising	from	around	82,000	gulden	to	nearly	370,000
gulden	between	1841	and	1847.	Salomon’s	decision	to	invest	in	a	salt	factory	in
Venice	at	around	this	time	needs	to	be	seen	as	part	of	a	strategy	of	expansion	into
the	Adriatic	region.
The	question	which	remained	to	be	answered	was	whether	this	bold	business
strategy	would	prove	financially	sustainable.	As	we	have	seen,	there	had	been	a

--- Page 551 ---
recurrent	need	to	inject	cash	into	the	various	concerns	which	Salomon	was
seeking	to	knit	together.	Such	strategies	of	vertical	integration,	though
apparently	rational,	do	not	always	deliver	the	internal	gains	in	efficiency	and
economies	of	scale	they	seem	to	imply.	Moreover,	loosely	connected	business
empires	of	the	sort	he	was	building	are	often	especially	vulnerable	to	a
deterioration	in	economic	conditions.	Unfortunately	for	Salomon,	such	a
deterioration	was	fast	approaching.
	
Frankfurt:	The	Taunusbahn
By	comparison	with	its	Vienna	branch,	the	Frankfurt	house	itself	played	a
relatively	modest	role	in	railway	finance	before	1848.	This	may	have	been	a
matter	of	temperament;	it	is	more	likely	to	have	reflected	the	different	political
environment	of	southern	Germany	in	the	Vormärz	era.	Although	(like	the	British
state)	the	Austrian	state	did	little	to	facilitate	the	building	of	railways	other	than
to	grant	concessions,	it	was	at	least	a	single	entity,	so	that	negotiations	for	a	line
stretching	as	far	as	the	Nordbahn	could	be	conducted	at	the	imperial	level.	In
southern	Germany,	by	contrast,	even	relatively	short	railway	lines	could	cross
multiple	state	borders,	and	therefore	required	co-operation	between	several
governments.	Particularist	jealousies,	however,	meant	that	such	co-operation	was
rarely	forthcoming;	indeed,	the	larger	states	self-consciously	pursued	railway
policies	which	were	designed	to	maximise	their	own	internal	cohesion	at	the
expense	of	inter-state	communications.	In	Bavaria	(where	the	first	German
railway	was	opened	to	link	Nuremberg	with	Fürth	less	than	four	miles	away),	as
well	as	in	Baden,	Württemberg	and	Hanover,	the	construction	of	railways	was
undertaken	on	the	Belgian	model	by	the	state	governments	themselves.	Here,
therefore,	the	most	that	the	Rothschilds	could	do	was	to	underwrite	the	bonds
issued	to	finance	railway	building.	The	state	nearest	to	them,	Hesse-Kassel,	by
contrast,	allowed	some	railways	to	be	constructed	privately,	as	did	Prussia	and
Saxony.	The	result	was	a	degree	of	confusion	which	precluded	a	grand	strategy
of	the	sort	adopted	by	Salomon	in	Vienna	and	doomed	to	disappointment	the
hope	expressed	in	the	Leipzig-based	
Allgemeine	Zeitung	des	Judenthums
	in	1837
that	“the	House	of	Rothschild	[would]	unerringly	place	itself	at	the	head	of	a
movement	which	will	completely	reshape	the	European	monetary	system:	the
destruction	of	the	trade	in	paper	[meaning	stock	exchange	speculation]	[and]	the
injection	of	capital	into	industry.”
As	early	as	January	1836,	Amschel	ran	into	difficulties	when	he	sought	to
secure	a	concession	for	a	line	between	Frankfurt	(a	free	city)	and	Mainz	(in

--- Page 552 ---
Hesse-Darmstadt),	which	naturally	had	also	to	pass	through	Hesse-Kassel:	three
separate	jurisdictions	for	a	line	of	less	than	twenty	miles.	It	took	seventeen
months	merely	to	secure	the	legislation	needed	for	the	compulsory	purchase	of
land	in	Hesse-Kassel.	When	in	1838	a	concession	was	secured	from	the
Frankfurt	Senate	for	the	so-called	Taunusbahn,	Amschel	and	Bethmann	had	to
buy	out	a	rival	company	which	had	been	authorised	to	build	a	line	along	a
parallel	route	by	the	authorities	in	Kassel.	A	
similar	conflict	arose	in	the	case	of
the	plan	to	link	Cologne	to	the	Belgian	network	between	the	proponents	(led	by
David	Hansemann)	and	opponents	(led	by	Ludolf	Camphausen)	of	a	route
through	Aix-la-Chapelle.	A	merger	of	their	two	companies	to	produce	the
Rheinische	Eisenbahngesellschaft	could	be	achieved	only	at	the	price	of
Camphausen’s	withdrawal.
All	this	helps	explain	why	Amschel	and	his	nephew	Anselm	preferred	to	let
other	banks	in	the	region	take	the	lead	in	such	negotiations.	As	Anselm
explained	in	1838,	“here	in	Germany,	railways	get	off	the	ground	only	with	a
great	deal	of	effort.”	It	was	not	untypical	that	the	Elector	of	Hesse-Kassel’s	son
expected	Amschel	to	secure	him	a	bribe	from	the	company	seeking	the
Frankfurt-Kassel	concession.	Quite	apart	from	the	time	wasted	in	negotiations,
he	grumbled,	railway	shares	in	Frankfurt	were	being	adversely	affected	by	such
delays.	The	Rhineland	company’s,	for	example,	fell	by	around	20	per	cent	in
1838	after	cost	overruns	had	necessitated	an	issue	of	6,000	new	shares.	It	was
therefore	not	the	Rothschilds	but	the	Oppenheims	and	Bethmanns	who	took	the
lead	in	private	railway	building	in	south-west	Germany,	though	Amschel	was
happy	to	participate	as	a	sleeping	partner.	It	was	Oppenheim	who	led	the
Rhineland	consortium,	taking	around	25	per	cent	of	its	3	million	thaler	capital,
compared	with	a	combined	Paris	and	Frankfurt	Rothschild	holding	of	just	a
fortieth;	similarly,	it	was	the	Bethmanns	who	led	the	£200,000	Taunusbahn
consortium.	By	comparison	with	these	activities,	there	were	easier	profits	to	be
made	from	issuing	the	Baden	government’s	railway	bonds,	though	this	business
also	had	to	be	shared	with	others;	or	acting	as	the	agent	for	British	locomotive
exporters,	notably	George	Stephenson.	By	the	mid-1840s	the	Frankfurt	house
was	confining	itself	to	floating	state	bonds	earmarked	for	railways	(for	example,
for	Hesse-Kassel	in	1845),	turning	down	private	schemes	like	the	Leipzig-
Frankfurt	line	proposed	the	same	year.	When	Anthony	visited	Frankfurt	in	1844,
he	was	impressed	by	the	“tremendous	speculation”	in	railway	shares,	but	viewed
the	phenomenon	with	a	marked	detachment.
Political	fragmentation	(and	entrepreneurial	differences)	also	explain	the	very

--- Page 553 ---
limited	involvement	of	the	Rothschilds	in	Italian	railway	building	before	1848.
Although	there	is	some	evidence	that	the	London	and	Paris	houses	bought	shares
in	the	Milanese	railway	line	built	in	the	mid-1830s,	this	interest	soon	waned.	The
following	year	approaches	to	James	by	an	Italian	company	planning	a	line
between	Florence	and	Leghorn	were	politely	rebuffed.	As	James	put	it,	“We
have	enough	railways	of	our	own	[in	France]	without	embarking	on	those	of
Italy	as	well.”	Schemes	for	railways	in	the	Two	Sicilies	and	the	Papal	states	were
discussed	in	the	1840s,	but—despite	Metternich’s	(somewhat	unexpected)
encouragement	in	the	latter	case—did	not	get	far	beyond	the	drawing	board.
“The	Chief	Rabbi	of	the	Rive	Droite”
When	he	felt	like	flattering	James,	Heine	sometimes	gave	the	impression	that	he
had	been	the	
fons	et	origo
	of	the	French	railway	network.
3
	“Herr	von	Rothschild
alone	discovered	Emile	Pereire,	the	Pontifex	Maximus	of	railways,	and	he
immediately	made	him	his	chief	engineer	.	.	.”	It	was	really	the	other	way	round:
Pereire	“discovered”	Rothschild,	in	the	sense	that	he	persuaded	James	to	commit
his	enormous	financial	resources	to	railways.	It	was	an	unlikely	partnership,
which	reflected	James’s	susceptibility	to	clever	men	of	letters	as	much	as	his
financial	acumen.	True,	Emile	
and	his	younger	brother	Isaac	were	Jews,	like
James;	but	there	the	resemblances	ended.	Where	James	was	an	immigrant	from
Germany,	the	Pereires	were	Sephardic	Jews	whose	grandfather	had	left	Spain
and	settled	in	Bordeaux.	Moreover,	where	James	had	no	explicit	political	or
philosophical	allegiances,	the	Pereires	were	disciples	of	comte	Henri	de	Saint-
Simon,	the	utopian	prophet	of	a	technocratic,	corpo	ratist	industrial	society	in
which	the	“productive”	classes	would	displace	the	idle	and	rule	benignly	under
the	influence	of	a	“new	Christianity.”
For	such	men,	partnership	with	the	Rothschilds	represented	a	perilous
compromise,	if	not	a	Faustian	pact:	the	Pereires’	friend	Prosper	Enfantin
hesitated	to	become	associated	with	“the	damned	soul	of	a	Rothschild.”	Yet
Emile	Pereire	was	enough	of	a	realist	to	grasp	the	indispensability	of	Rothschild
financial	support	if	he	really	was	to	write	his	projects	“on	the	earth”	rather	than
just	on	the	pages	of	papers	like	the	
National
.	Between	them,	he	and	his	brother
could	muster	no	more	than	30,000	francs.	Yet	their	pilot	project—a	railway	from
Paris	to	Pecq	in	the	elegant	suburb	of	Saint-Germain—would	cost,	they
estimated,	more	than	a	hundred	times	as	much	to	construct.	As	Emile	put	it	in
May	1835,	“The	involvement	of	the	Rothschild	bank	in	the	railway	from	Paris	to
Saint-Germain	is	not	only	of	great	importance	for	this	particular	venture;	it	will
necessarily	have	a	determining	influence	on	the	later	realisation	of	all	the	great

--- Page 554 ---
industrial	undertakings.”
Wisely,	the	Pereires	did	not	pin	all	their	hopes	on	James.	Having	secured
political	backing	from	Emile	Legrand,	the	Director-General	of	the	Ponts	et
Chaussées	(in	effect,	the	Department	of	Transport)	and	the	more	sceptical	Thiers
(who	dismissed	the	railway	as	a	“toy”),	they	approached	Adolphe	d’Eichthal	and
Auguste	Thurneyssen	for	the	200,000	francs	needed	to	secure	the	initial
concession,	and	then	recruited	J.	C.	Davillier	as	well	as	James	to	act	as
shareholders.	In	fact,	d’Eichthal	had	as	big	a	stake	as	James—23.5	per	cent	of
the	original	5	million	franc	capital.	As	an	advertisement	for	investment	in	future
railways,	the	Saint-Germain	line	was	a	qualified	success.	The	twelve	mile	track
cost	a	good	deal	more	to	build	than	had	been	anticipated	(11	million	francs
instead	of	3.9	million)	and	the	volume	of	passenger	traffic	fluctuated	much	more
than	had	been	anticipated,	soaring	on	summer	Sundays	and	plummeting	on
winter	weekdays.	On	the	other	hand	it	was	completed	and	opened	ahead	of
schedule	in	August	1837,	and	in	the	first	three	years	of	its	operation	the	Pereires
succeeded	in	reducing	running	costs	from	52	to	44	per	cent	of	gross	receipts,
ensuring	that	the	shareholders	were	not	disappointed.	James	was	a	convert.	As
he	wrote	to	his	nephew	Anthony	in	June	1836,	after	himself	taking	the	train
through	Belgium	on	his	way	to	Frankfurt:
I	would	recommend	that	we	don’t	sell	any	St-Germain	shares	for	the	time	being,
because	I	believe	that	there	will	be	a	substantial	rise	in	these.	I	am	absolutely
convinced	that	people	in	France	simply	have	no	idea	how	easy	it	is	to	travel	by
such	means	.	.	.	I	want	to	tell	you,	the	cheaper	one	sets	the	price,	the	more
passengers	there	will	be,	and	the	greater	will	be	the	profit	one	stands	to	make.
Having	seen	what	has	been	happening	in	Antwerp,	I	am	more	and	more
convinced	that	this	is	a	lucrative	and	successful	enterprise.	I	am	certain	that	in
twenty	years’	time	there	won’t	be	a	single	Postmaster	left	in	the	world,	and
people	will	only	travel	by	train	.	.	.	I	am	in	love	with	the	railway.
The	Pereires	always	conceived	of	the	Saint-Germain	line	as	the	nucleus	of	a
much	larger	railway	system.	Their	hope	was	to	concentrate	as	much	of	the	traffic
into	and	out	of	Paris	as	they	could	through	the	Saint-Germain	line	and	into	the
terminus	station	they	built	at	the	Gare	Saint-Lazare.	At	the	same	time,	they
always	hoped	to	avoid	financial	dependence	on	any	single	banker.	This	was
easily	attained	as	French	railways	were	financed	from	an	early	stage	by
consortiums,	reinforcing	a	tendency	towards	the	formation	of	loose	business
“groups”	which	had	already	manifested	itself	on	the	Paris	bond	market.

--- Page 555 ---
However,	the	project	of	a	Pereire-led	monopoly	on	rail	traffic	in	and	out	of	Paris
inevitably	aroused	both	financial	competition	and	political	opposition.	Thus,
when	the	brothers	embarked	on	the	next	phase	of	their	programme—a	line
between	Paris	and	Versailles,	running	along	the	right	bank	of	the	Seine—the
move	did	not	go	unchallenged.	The	“Rive	Droite”	was	a	financial	as	well	as	a
geographical	extension	of	the	original	Saint-Germain	line:	de	Rothschild	Frères
were	the	largest	shareholder	with	just	under	a	third	of	the	11	million	franc
capital;	the	other	major	shareholders	were	once	again	d’Eichthal,	Davillier	and
Thurneyssen,	with	an	additional	16	per	cent	being	provided	by	the	house	of	J.
Lefebvre	&	Cie.
At	first	James	was	optimistic	about	his	investment.	Shares	in	both	the	Saint-
Germain	and	the	Rive	Droite	soared:	the	former	reaching	a	high	of	950,
compared	with	an	issue	price	of	500	francs.	“Profit	smiles,”	wrote	James
gleefully	as	he	sold	a	couple	of	hundred.	“[To]	go	from	500	to	950	is	quite	nice.”
However,	he	was	disturbed	to	hear	that	“that	miserable	Fould	is	organising	a
subscription	for	our	railway	on	which	we	have	been	labouring	for	such	a	long
time.”	After	“a	campaign	of	intrigues”	in	the	Chamber	of	Deputies,	the	Fould
brothers	and	their	partners	secured	a	rival	concession	to	build	a	parallel	line	to
Versailles	along	the	
left
	bank	of	the	Seine.	“Well,	this	will	ruin	everything,”
James	lamented,	“and	one	can’t	do	anything	any	more	in	this	world.”	The
absurdity	of	the	ensuing	rivalry	was	not	lost	on	contemporaries.	Heine	ridiculed
“the	Chief	Rabbi	of	the	Rive	Droite,	Baron	Rothschild”	and	“the	Chief	Rabbi	of
the	Rive	Gauche”:
For	the	French	Jews,	as	for	the	French	as	a	whole,	gold	is	the	god	of	our	times
and	industry	the	prevailing	religion.	In	this	respect,	it	is	possible	to	divide	the
Jews	of	this	country	into	two	sects:	the	sect	of	the	Right	Bank	and	the	sect	of	the
Left	Bank.	These	names	refer	to	the	two	railways	which	lead	to	Versailles,	the
one	along	the	right	bank	of	the	Seine,	the	other	along	the	left	bank,	which	are	run
by	two	famous	rabbis	of	finance,	who	rub	each	other	up	the	wrong	way	as	much
as	Rabbi	Sham	mai	and	Rabbi	Hillel	in	the	ancient	city	of	Babylon.
For	the	investors	concerned,	however,	it	was	no	laughing	matter.	There	was
not	enough	traffic	between	Paris	and	Versailles	to	justify	the	existence	of	two
lines,	and	the	actual	returns	and	dividends	on	the	shares	of	the	new	companies
were	correspondingly	meagre	(especially	as	there	were	cost	overruns	during
construction).
4
	
The	Saint-Germain	shares	also	began	to	be	affected	by	the	rising
cost	of	expanding	the	line’s	capacity	to	accommodate	the	increased	traffic	not

--- Page 556 ---
only	of	the	Versailles	line	but	of	other	proposed	branches,	which	necessitated	a
series	of	three	loans	from	its	bankers	totalling	around	10	million	francs.	More
generally,	the	proliferation	of	new	industrial	companies	was	beginning	to
exhaust	the	market’s	appetite	for	new	
shares:	as	James	warned	grimly	in
September	1837,	“One	of	these	days	it	will	start	to	stink	.	.	.	because	too	many
shares	are	arriving	on	the	scene.”	A	sudden	slump	in	the	market	almost	exactly	a
year	later	forced	the	rival	Versailles	lines	to	discuss	some	kind	of	merger,	the
prime	objective	of	which,	as	far	as	James	was	concerned,	was	to	scrap	the	Rive
Gauche	altogether	with	a	view	to	boosting	the	shares	of	the	Rive	Droite.	In	the
end	the	Rothschild	company	effectively	took	over	the	Fould	company	and	both
were	later	absorbed	into	the	Ouest	line	in	1851.
These	problems	help	explain	the	difficulties	which	beset	the	next	phase	of	the
Pereires’	activity.	From	an	early	stage	they	had	envisaged	much	longer	railway
lines	than	the	initial	connections	to	Saint-Germain	and	Versailles.	Of	the	various
plans	they	considered,	the	most	ambitious	was	for	a	railway	connection	between
France	and	Belgium,	where	the	first	state-financed	lines	were	already	operating.
This	project	had	substantial	political	appeal	to	the	French	government,	which,	as
we	have	seen,	was	keen	to	assert	its	influence	over	its	newly	independent
neighbour.	It	also	appealed	greatly	to	James,	who	had	been	impressed	by	the
Belgian	lines	he	had	used	on	his	way	to	Frankfurt,	as	well	as	attracting	the
interest	of	British	railway	entrepreneurs	like	George	Stephenson	and	the
Belgium-based	John	Cockerill.	However,	the	Société	Générale—which	would
have	been	the	obvious	financial	partner	for	the	Rothschilds—was	lukewarm	in
its	response.	After	much	prevarication,	the	governor	of	the	Société	Générale,
Méeus,	indicated	that	he	“did	not	want	his	name	to	be	associated	with	the
Belgian	railway,”	as	it	would	be	“too	risky”	and	he	put	“honour	before
everything,	money	second.”	For	his	part,	James	took	the	view	from	an	early
stage	that	“if	[Méeus]	is	not	prepared	to	.	.	.	join	then	we	will	have	to	stay	away
from	the	project	for	we	don’t	want	to	make	enemies	of	them.”	But	it	was	not
only	Méeus	who	had	reservations	about	the	project.	James	also	came	under
pressure	from	the	Frankfurt	house	to	drop	it:	the	proposed	line	was,	as	Anselm
put	it,	just	“too	long.”
Although	it	was	partly	due	to	the	diplomatic	crisis	over	Belgium	of	1838-9,
the	stalling	of	the	plan	for	a	Paris-Brussels	connection	primarily	reflected	the
lack	of	confidence	of	continental	bankers	in	their	own	ability	to	finance	major
railway	lines	without	state	assistance	(or	perhaps	their	desire	to	get	their	hands
on	subsidies).	As	early	as	December	1836	James	was	toying	with	the	idea	of

--- Page 557 ---
some	kind	of	state	subvention	to	make	the	proposed	Northern	Line	(or	“Nord”
for	short)	more	attractive	to	investors.	“It	is	a	difficult	business,”	he	told	his
nephews	in	London,	“because	the	bankers	here	[in	Paris]	are	not	inclined	to
support	it.	Don’t	you	think	that	it	[would	be]	possible	to	sell	a	great	deal	in
London	if	the	French	Government	[were]	to	guarantee	an	interest	payment	at	3
per	cent?”	James	could	see	the	difficulties	with	such	an	arrangement,	however.
“If	we	had	chosen	to	go	for	the	interest,”	he	reported	a	few	days	later,	“then
every	scoundrel	would	have	appeared	on	the	scene	and	would	have	made	plans
and	would	have	placed	obstacles	in	our	path.	Secondly,	I	believe	that	the
[government’s]	credit	might	have	suffered	terribly	as	a	result	of	such	a	move
because	every	other	département	would	have	demanded	the	same	terms.”	On	the
other	hand,	he	discerned	that	the	Nord	would	never	be	built	without	some	sort	of
state	support.	The	alternative	method	of	subsidy	he	contemplated	at	this	time
was	a	straightforward	“gift”	of	a	third	of	its	estimated	cost:	“We	calculate	the
cost	of	the	Railway	to	be	75	million	and	the	Government	will	give	25	million
without	expecting	to	receive	anything	in	return	as	encouragement	for	the	boys.”
Without	a	subsidy,	James	argued,	it	would	be	impossible	to	sell	enough	shares	to
the	public,	no	matter	how	“crazy	about	railways”	they	were;	or	rather	the	shares
would	be	sold,	but	would	not	rise	by	the	15	or	20	per	cent	which	investors	were
coming	to	expect.	This,	however,	seems	to	have	been	unacceptable	to	Méeus.	It
may	also	be	that,	as	Léon	Faucher	suspected,	the	French	government	was	wary
of	such	involvement.	James	regarded	“Legrand,	whose	assistance	we	much
require	.	.	.	[as]	no	great	friend	of	ours.”
Up	until	this	point,	the	government	had	confined	itself	to	devising	bold
schemes	for	a	national	network	of	major	lines	radiating	outwards	from	Paris.	For
example,	the	Molé	ministry	in	May	1837	had	envisaged	six	principal	railways
linking	Paris	to	Belgium	in	the	north,	Orléans	in	the	south,	Rouen	in	the	north-
west	and	Mulhouse	in	the	east,	with	separate	links	to	Lyon	and	Marseille	in	the
far	south.	A	year	later,	Legrand	envisaged	a	total	of	nine	major	lines,	adding
links	to	Nantes	and	Bordeaux	in	the	west	and	south-west	as	well	as	a	link	from
Lyon	to	Basle.	However,	there	was	opposition	to	the	planned	system	of
concessions,	and	such	plans	remained	no	more	than	suggestions	until	the	1840s.
This	left	the	private	sector	more	or	less	to	its	own	devices.
James	soon	formed	the	view	that	“the	various	railways	have	to	be	viewed	as
cousins	of	each	other	and	when	[the	share	price	of]	one	rises	the	others	will	then
follow.”	However,	there	was	a	tendency	for	more	than	one	“family”	of	railway
financiers	to	emerge.	For	example,	James	was	happy	to	lend	financial	support	to

--- Page 558 ---
Paulin	Talabot,	the	driving	force	behind	the	Grand-Combe	line,	which	aimed	to
link	the	coal	mines	of	the	Grande	Combe	(near	Alès)	to	Beaucaire	and	ultimately
Marseille.	A	visit	to	the	Midi	in	1838	seems	to	have	convinced	him	that	the	area
would	be	ideal	for	railway	development,	and	he	had	no	objection	to	advancing	6
million	francs	to	keep	the	project	afloat	in	late	1839.	By	contrast,	he	was	more
wary	of	the	route	to	Bordeaux,	and	limited	his	involvement	to	a	small
shareholding	in	the	company	set	up	to	build	the	line	from	Paris	to	Orléans—a
wise	decision,	as	the	company	folded	in	August	1839.	The	concession	was
subsequently	granted	to	an	Anglo-French	partnership	of	Charles	Laffitte	and	the
English	financier	Edward	Blount,	which	also	won	the	concession	to	link	Paris
and	Boulogne	via	Amiens.	Despite	the	fact	that	the	Orléans	line	was	obliged	to
use	the	Saint-Lazare	terminus	controlled	by	the	Saint-Germain	company,	a	fierce
rivalry	soon	developed	between	the	Laffitte-Blount	group	and	the	Rothschild
group.
The	1839	crisis	increased	James’s	desire	to	involve	the	state	in	the	financing
of	railways,	if	only	to	bolster	the	performance	of	Saint-Germain	and	Rive	Droite
shares.	Here,	as	with	international	affairs,	his	bullying	of	French	politicians	was
unabashed.	“In	the	event	that	the	Government	is	not	prepared	to	do	anything
with	regard	to	the	Rive	Droite,”	he	told	his	nephews	in	June	1839,	“then	I	will
see	to	it	that	it	is	attacked	in	all	the	newspapers.”	Two	months	later	he	went
further:
If	they	are	indeed	making	things	very	difficult	for	you	then	you	should	tell	them
that	I	wrote	you	that	I	am	resigning	from	my	position	as	administrator	[of	the
Rive	Droite	company]	and	at	the	same	time	I	will	be	announcing	in	the
newspaper	that	due	to	the	implacable	opposition	of	the	present	Ministry	we	have
been	forced	to	relinquish	our	position	and	to	assure	the	general	public	that	as
long	as	the	Ministry	of	Commerce	remains	in	the	hands	of	the	current
incumbents	we	will	completely	withdraw	from	doing	any	business	in	the
industrials.	If	you	put	this	to	Marshal	Soult	then	I	can	promise	you	that	M.
Dufour	will	change	his	attitude.	If	you	can’t	gain	someone’s	friendship	then	you
have	to	make	them	fear	you.
As	these	remarks	suggest,	James’s	influence	over	sections	of	the	French	press
was	an	important	weapon	in	his	railway	policy.
It	was	the	question	of	the	line	to	Belgium,	however,	which	was	to	become	the
most	notorious	example	of	French	governmental	subservience	to	Rothschild
financial	power.	Even	before	the	various	diplomatic	storms	of	1839	and	1840

--- Page 559 ---
had	died	away,	James	returned	to	the	idea	of	a	Northern	railway	more	convinced
than	ever	that	it	would	be	“a	good	piece	of	business.”	The	idea	he	now	advanced
to	ministers	was	that	the	government	should	guarantee	to	pay	the	interest	on
railway	
bonds
	(4	per	cent)	for	a	specified	period—a	suggestion	of	Emile
Pereire’s	designed	to	appeal	to	the	more	cautious	investors	who	regarded	private
sector	shares	as	too	risky.	Now	the	government	proved	more	receptive.	The
principle	enunciated	in	Legrand’s	law	of	1842	was	that	the	state	would	purchase
the	rights	of	way	and	construct	the	railways	and	buildings,	leasing	the	lines	to
the	railway	companies,	who	would	provide	the	rolling	stock	and	run	trains	for
specified	periods.	What	this	meant	in	practice,	however,	took	years	to	resolve,
especially	in	the	case	of	the	Belgian	line.
In	James’s	eyes,	the	route	north	from	Paris	to	Lille	and	Valenciennes	promised
to	be	the	most	profitable	of	all	the	main	French	lines	because	it	would	link	the
French	market	not	only	to	Belgium	but	(via	branch	lines	to	Calais	and	Dunkirk)
to	England;	the	prospect	of	a	government	subsidy	made	it	“a	golden	business
opportunity.”	But	precisely	for	that	reason	there	was	bound	to	be	political
opposition	to	giving	the	Rothschilds	the	concession.	“Well	now,	my	dear	Nat,”
complained	James	when	it	seemed	that	the	government	was	going	to	deny	him,
“the	business	with	our	railways	is	not	working	out	at	all.	The	whole	world	is
against	us.	People	say	we	are	a	monopoly	and	that	we	want	all	the	railways	for
they	can	see	that	it	would	not	be	possible	to	build	the	Belgian	[railway]	without
us.”	James	was	right.	Although	the	two	sides	failed	to	reach	a	final	agreement
until	1845,	the	government	ultimately	seemed	to	have	no	alternative	but	to	deal
with	the	Rothschilds.	A	crucial	factor	was	the	government’s	own	need	to	borrow
precisely	in	order	to	finance	the	Legrand	plan.	James’s	near-monopoly	on	issues
of	rentes	gave	him	an	invaluable	lever	in	the	negotiations	leading	to	the	award	of
the	Nord	concession.	As	he	commented	with	satisfaction	in	December	1842:	“If
we	get	the	loan	then	we	are	masters	over	the	railways.	The	Finance	Minister	said
to	me	today,	‘I	won’t	do	anything	without	you	and	the	whole	Ministry	shares	my
views.	The	railway	from	Belgium	will	be	offered	to	you	in	preference	to	anyone
else.’	”
In	two	respects,	it	might	be	thought,	James	had	to	compromise	in	order	to	win.
Firstly,	the	Pereires’	dream	that	the	line	would	terminate	at	the	Gare	Saint-Lazare
had	to	be	jettisoned,	despite	the	negative	impact	this	had	on	Saint-Germain
shares.	Secondly,	James’s	rivals	were	allowed	to	participate	in	the	consortium
which	founded	the	company:	with	the	continuing	reluctance	of	Méeus	to	commit
the	Société	Générale	to	a	major	stake	in	the	company,	James	had	no	alternative

--- Page 560 ---
but	to	allot	substantial	shareholdings	to	Laffitte-Blount,	Hottinguer	and	other
lesser	rivals.	Yet	in	practice	these	were	minor	concessions.	It	would	seem	that
James	felt	
less	strongly	about	having	Saint-Lazare	as	the	terminus	than	Pereire;
as	for	his	fellow	investors,	none	of	them	could	pretend	that	they	were	anything
other	than	junior	partners.	Laffitte	had	hoped	to	revive	his	own	long-standing
ambitions	by	launching	a	single,	grandiose	loan	to	construct	the	entire	network
envisaged	by	Legrand;	in	becoming	little	more	than	a	sleeping	partner,	he	was
effectively	admitting	defeat	yet	again.
When	the	contract	was	finally	awarded	in	September	1845,	the	Paris	and
London	houses	were	the	biggest	shareholders—with	a	25.7	per	cent	stake	of	the
200	million	franc	capital,	compared	with	Hottinguer’s	20.15	per	cent	and
Laffitte-Blount’s	19.5—and	held	the	key	executive	positions.	The	only	real
compromises	which	had	to	be	made	related	to	the	specific	terms	of	the	contract:
the	subsidy	to	be	paid	per	mile	of	track	constructed;	the	duration	of	the	period
during	which	the	company	would	run	it;	the	level	of	fares	to	be	charged	for	the
three	classes	of	passenger;	and	the	regularity	of	services.	But	these	were	political
rather	than	commercial	compromises,	reflecting	the	need	to	overcome	opposition
within	the	Chamber	of	Deputies	(where	an	influential	group	of	deputies	favoured
complete	public	sector	construction	and	control	of	railways).	Similarly,	James’s
decision	to	withdraw	altogether	from	the	consortium	bidding	three	months	later
for	the	Paris-Lyon	concession	was	designed	to	ensure	that	he	could	make	the
most	competitive	bid	for	the	Creil-Saint-Quentin	line	being	auctioned
simultaneously.
The	winning	of	the	Nord	concession	needs	to	be	seen	as	part	of	a	general
carving-up	of	the	primary	French	railway	network—a	process	in	which	the
Rothschilds	played	a	leading	role.	Although	the	Nord	was	the	line	in	which
James	most	visibly	interested	himself,	it	was	by	no	means	the	only	one.	As	we
have	seen,	he	had	contemplated	taking	a	modest	share	in	the	Paris-Lyon	line.	He
had	also	thought	of	involving	himself	in	the	line	to	Bordeaux,	and	in	1844
formed	a	consortium	to	bid	for	the	concession.	Although	the	line	was	awarded	to
another	company,	he	was	soon	seeking	some	kind	of	partnership	with	it	to
finance	the	connection	from	Bordeaux	to	Cette.	The	Rothschilds	also	took	a
substantial	shareholding	in	the	company	which	had	won	the	Paris-Strasbourg
concession;	and	it	had	a	small	stake	in	the	Lyon-Avignon	concession	too.
Smaller	players	vied	with	one	another	to	see	who	could	win	the	backing	of	“the
all	powerful	name	of	the	House	of	Rothschild”	for	their	companies.	All	this	was
part	of	an	early	move	towards	the	concentration	of	ownership	within	the	French

--- Page 561 ---
railway	industry	which	Saint-Simonians	like	Enfantin	sought	to	encourage.	In
fact,	though	they	lacked	Enfantin’s	grandiose	vision,	the	bankers	did	not	need
much	persuading.	As	early	as	1844	Hottinguer,	Blanc	and	d’Eichthal	were
proposing	to	James	that	“with	respect	to	the	grand	affair	of	the	railroad	from
Calais	to	Avignon	.	.	.	we	should	all	write	&	endeavour	to	get	the	whole	line	of
railroads	so	as	to	avoid	competition,	that	we	should	interest	all	the	different
companies	&	then	all	of	us	put	together.”	By	November	1845	the	craze	for
“fusions”—that	is,	mergers	between	railway	companies—was	in	full	swing.
“You	have	no	idea	what	a	quantity	of	people	are	in	the	Counting	House	for	the
fusion	of	Creil	&	St	Quentin	à	Lyons,”	reported	Anselm,	“which	fusion	creates
such	a	confusion	that	our	office	is	rather	like	an	inn	in	Switzerland	where	all	the
tourists	run	in	after	a	long	excursion	in	the	Mountains.”	The	time-consuming
contest	for	concessions	had	begun	to	pall.	Increasingly,	collaboration	seemed
more	rational	than	competition.
Geographical	concentration	was	also	taking	place.	In	securing	the	biggest
shareholding	in	the	Nord	line	and	a	majority	of	the	Creil-Saint-Quentin	line’s
capital	(both	in	partnership	with	Hottinguer	and	Laffitte-Blount),	James	ensured
that	he	controlled	the	two	major	rail	links	north	to	Belgium,	to	say	nothing	of
two	important	routes	within	Paris—a	total	of	388	miles	of	line.	This	represented
a	formidable	geographical	base	for	the	pan-European	railway	empire	he	was
beginning	to	dream	of.
	
The	English	Connection
The	attitude	of	James’s	English	nephews	towards	all	these	projects	was	at	first,
to	say	the	least,	ambivalent.	James	delegated	a	good	deal	of	the	detailed	work	on
railway	finance	to	them—especially	to	Anthony,	who	consequently	became
more	expert	than	his	uncle.	Yet	he	and	his	brothers	never	wholly	lost	the
suspicion	of	industrial	finance	which	they	had	acquired	at	New	Court.	“There	is
nothing	new	here—but	Railroad	Companies,”	complained	Anthony	in	May
1838,	“and	there	are	so	many	that	one	gets	quite	sick	of	them—there	is	such	a
Jealousy	on	the	part	.	.	.	of	the	other	Companies	that	[one?]	is	a	little	disquieted.”
Nat	admitted	that	the	Paris	house	did	“not	think	much	of	our	poor	London	house
in	these	[railway]	matters”;	but	he	himself	never	tired	of	pointing	out	the
disadvantages	of	the	Nord	project.	“We	are	continually	bored	with	Pereire	&
Eichtahl	[
sic
]	[trying]	to	induce	us	to	go	largely	into	the	railroad	to	Chartres,”	he
complained	in	the	spring	of	1842.	“The	stinking	railroads	engross	all	our
attention	&	for	my	part	I	wish	his	.	.	.	Majesty	had	them	all,	they	only	give	us

--- Page 562 ---
trouble	&	bother	&	no	remuneration	.	.	.	I	am	by	no	means	anxious	that	the
house	shd	go	largely	into	railroad	concerns.”	“We	are	up	to	our	necks	in	steam,”
he	grumbled	a	few	weeks	later,	“&	get	nothing	for	all	the	bother	&	trouble.”	At
times	he	denied	that	the	railways	would	be	profitable:	“People	are	afraid	of
holding	the	shares	and	of	travelling	by	the	railroad.”	At	other	times,	it	was	the
attendant	risks	he	objected	to:
For	my	part	I	hope	&	trust	we	shall	have	nothing	more	to	do	with	the	Be[lgia]n
railroad	than	to	take	a	lot	of	shares	which	we	will	be	able	to	sell	when	good
opportunity	offers—I	am	by	no	means	desirous	of	going	up	to	one’s	neck	in	a
stinking	railroad	&	if	the	least	thing	happens	one	[soils?]	one’s	breeches,	whilst
others	know	all	about	it	&	when	we	wish	to	be	acquainted	with	the	occurrence
we	must	address	ourselves	to	Pereire—Besides	the	bother	&	trouble	with	the
Govt	.	.	.
But	the	criticism	he	most	frequently	expressed	was	that	becoming	involved	in
operating	railways—as	opposed	to	speculating	in	their	shares—could	tie	up
capital	in	a	potentially	dangerous	way:
I	am	against	the	[Belgian	railway]	affair	because	I	am	afraid	of	the	anxiety,
bother	&	trouble	which	it	will	surely	occasion	us—the	moral	responsibility	of	it
will	rest	entirely	on	us,	&	I	wd	sooner	leave	to	others	the	profit	which	the	shares
are	likely	to	bring	than	engage	in	a	concern	of	such	magnitude	without	the
possibility	of	attending	to	it	properly—Such	is	my	way	of	thinking	&	most
sincerely	do	I	trust	the	Baron	will	remain	satisfied	with	purely	financial	affairs
which	we	understand	&	which	we	can	get	out	of	when	we	think	fit.
Nat	was	delighted	when	the	Nord	concession	appeared	to	fall	through,	and
alarmed	when	it	was	finally	granted.	Although	less	hostile	than	his	brother,
Anthony	could	be	almost	as	unenthusiastic.	“As	regards	the	Railroad,”	he	told
Lionel	in	June	1842,	“I	think	the	best	thing	is	.	.	.	not	to	have	anything	to	do	with
them.”
These	attitudes	reveal	a	fundamental	difference	of	attitude,	though	how	far
this	was	a	generational	difference	and	how	far	a	matter	of	milieu	is	hard	to	say:
the	fact	that	Anselm,	who	had	spent	most	of	his	working	life	in	Paris	or
Frankfurt,	also	opposed	too	much	involvement	in	railways	suggests	a	generation
gap	of	some	sort.	In	admitting	that	“in	these	times	the	conservative	feeling	has
the	ascendant	over	the	acquiring	sentiment—with	me	at	least,”	Nat	spoke	for	all
the	younger	Rothschilds.	Like	the	
Journal	des	Débats
,	they	were	inclined	to	fear

--- Page 563 ---
that	in	bidding	for	the	Nord	concession	James	was	bidding	“for	the	privilege	to
ruin	himself.”	As	Nat	put	it,	contemplating	the	extent	of	their	commitments,
by	hook	&	by	crook	we	shall	have	lots	of	shares	in	the	market	&	probably
deeply	engaged	in	them	all—I	have	no	doubt	if	things	remain	as	they	at	present
are	all	share	concerns	will	turn	out	uncommmonly	well,	but	God	forbid	if	the
least	political	or	financial	crisis	were	to	take	place	what	wd	become	of	all	the
shares?
“The	Baron,”	however,	was	too	embroiled	in	“wheeling	and	dealing”	with	the
plethora	of	new	scrip	and	shares	coming	on	to	the	market	seriously	to
contemplate	such	an	eventuality.
In	this	context,	Nat’s	description	of	James’s	contrasting	mood	is	especially
illuminating:
[T]he	Baron	is	in	a	sort	of	fever	about	it,	he	thinks	it	a	good	business,	&	is	afraid
of	it,	he	fancies	the	rival	company	will	get	it	&	then	regrets	it	doubly,	on	the
other	hand	he	trembles	head	&	foot	at	the	idea	of	having	to	direct	a	railroad
company	of	such	importance	without	being	able	to	do	without	such	a	pair	of
jobbers	as	Eichthal	&	Pereire.
James	knew	the	risks,	in	other	words,	but	could	not	face	losing	the	business	to
his	rivals;	his	nephews	were	less	furiously	competitive.	Nat’s	view	“with	respect
to	the	railroad	[was]	not	to	be	too	greedy	&	not	to	wish	to	jouer	le	grand	rôle,	we
may	take	a	share	&	a	good	large	one	&	take	our	profit	thereon	but	not	assume
more	responsibility	than	others.”	James,	by	contrast,	could	not	resist	playing	“le
grand	rôle.”	He	had	no	illusions	about	the	dangers	and	difficulties	involved	in
“trying	to	do	too	much	at	once,”	but	nevertheless	exhorted	his	nephews	to	“apply
themselves	seriously”:
I	urgently	beg	you	to	take	on	several	new	brokers	so	that	we	can	do	business	on
an	equal	footing	with	the	others	and	try	to	put	some	life	into	the	railway
business.	I	feel	that	the	world	wants	to	find	something	new	each	year	with	which
to	busy	itself.	At	the	moment	“industry”	seems	to	be	the	fashionable	thing.	If
that	is	the	case	and	we	decide	to	enter	the	fray	then	we	have	to	apply	ourselves
seriously	to	the	business	and	will	have	to	engage	in	doing	business	even	if	there
is	nothing	to	be	earned	only	so	that	we	stay	busy.
Enfantin	was	not	wrong	when	he	suggested	that	“playing	at	railways”	had
supplanted	even	playing	politics	in	James’s	affections:	“Playing	at	gossip	with
Thiers,	
Guizot	or	Molé—a	game	which	Louis	Philippe	plays	so	well—is	child’s

--- Page 564 ---
play	for	Rothschild,	which	he	scarcely	deigns	to	play;	he	profits	from	its	ups	and
downs,	but	for	his	part	he	plays	at	railways	.	.	.	that	was	the	great	game	for
strong	men.”
Yet	James’s	project	ultimately	depended	on	the	London	house,	in	that	only	the
resources	of	the	London	capital	market	could	satisfy	the	demands	of	the
projected	line,	even	with	government	subsidies.	The	Nord	would,	as	Nat	saw,
only	be	“a	capital	concern	if	we	can	get	some	good	people	in	London	to	go
largely	into	it.”	“[I]t	is	impossible	for	us	to	undertake	so	extensive	a	line	unless
backed	by	English	capitalists,”	he	advised	Lionel.	In	particular,	he	urged	him	to
involve	Glyn’s,	the	one	City	house	which	had	interested	itself	seriously	in
railways,	and	George	Stephenson,	whose	engineering	expertise	would	be
invaluable.	Given	the	obvious	importance	of	the	branch	lines	from	the	Nord	to
the	Channel	coast,	other	English	businessmen	were	not	slow	to	become
involved,	though	not	all	were	welcome:	the	attempts	of	David	Salomons	to
elbow	his	way	into	the	business	were	a	source	of	considerable	irritation.	The	fact
that	there	was	so	much	English	interest	in	the	line	may	explain	why	Nat’s
opposition	to	involvement	diminished	during	1843.	If	nothing	else,	he	came	to
believe	that	the	shares	would	jump	to	a	“famous	high	price”	and	“go	like	hot
rolls”	on	issue.	Sure	enough,	French	railway	shares	were	a	great	success	on	the
London	market.	As	Mayer	reported:
The	people	here	are	quite	determined	upon	entering	every	undertaking	that	is
brought	out	in	your	good	country,	no	matter	whether	it	is	a	railroad	or	loan	.	.	.
[G]iven	the	fortune	being	made	here	by	the	share	jobbers	one	has	no	doubt	that,
however	immense	the	scheme	may	appear	to	be,	a	very	strong	party	will	be
made.
Despite	their	reservations	about	the	long-term	profitability	of	French	railways,
the	London	brothers	could	not	help	taking	pride	in	the	superior	capacity	of	the
British	market.	“I	hope	that	you	have	sold	a	good	lot	of	the	Northern	Shares,”
Anthony	urged	Lionel	in	September	1845.	“Try	my	dear	Rabbi	to	show	that	the
English	people	can	take	off	as	many	shares	as	the	stinking	French	frogs.”	His
youngest	brother	expressed	the	same	feeling	the	following	year:	“The	more	I
see,	I	am	convinced	the	more	there	is	no	place	like	our	old	New	Court;	where
would	all	the	rubbishy	French	shares	be	if	we	did	not	support	them?	I	think	we
may	give	ourselves	a	few	airs	and	be	as	great	men	as	the	others.”	Such
chauvinistic	sentiments	were	another	important	aspect	of	the	Rothschild
generation	gap.

--- Page 565 ---
The	combination	of	James’s	entrepreneurial	vision	and	the	London	market’s
capacity	was	a	recipe	for	success.	As	the	price	of	Nord	shares	soared	from	500
francs	to	760,	his	gamble	on	the	line	seemed	amply	justified.	Even	his	London
nephews	had	to	acknowledge	that	its	prospects	seemed	excellent:	its	daily
takings	exceeded	20,000	francs	as	soon	as	it	opened,	despite	the	fact	that	the	line
was	far	from	complete	and	the	company	was	short	of	capable	engine-drivers.
Although	that	was	roughly	half	its	projected	income,	it	still	promised	a
respectable	return	to	the	operators—and	more,	with	a	little	fine-tuning.	James
was	soon	following	his	brother	Salomon’s	example,	exploring	the	possibility	of
“vertical	integration”	in	the	form	of	further	investment	in	Belgian	coal	mines.
“Everyone	thinks	that	coal	is	like	gold,”	he	enthused,	a	view	which	even	the
cautious	Anselm	could	not	dispute.	The	3	million	franc	investment	which	the
Paris	house	made	in	coal	mines	(in	conjunction	with	the	
Talabot	brothers)	would,
he	was	confident,	“become	with	a	little	time	a	most	capital	concern	as	the
consumption	of	coal	becomes	stronger	day	to	day	owing	to	so	many	railroads	on
the	continent	and	the	progress	of	industry	.	.	.”	The	Nord	could	get	its	coal	at	a
competitive	price;	by	the	same	token,	the	transportation	of	Belgian	coal	became
a	staple	of	the	railway	line’s	revenue.
Those	critics	who	had	accused	him	of	being	interested	only	in	a	quick	profit
on	railway	issues	now	had	to	recant:	like	Salomon,	James	was	building	up	a
substantial	portfolio	of	long-term	industrial	investments,	at	the	core	of	which
was	his	stake	in	the	Nord.	It	was	a	profoundly	important	departure,	not	least
because	the	London	house	chose	not	to	do	the	same.	This	was	the	safer	option	in
the	short	run,	and	undoubtedly	reduced	New	Court’s	exposure	when	the	market
for	railway	shares	slumped	in	1847-8;	but	in	the	long	run	it	meant	that	only	the
Paris	house	would	share	in	the	immense	capital	gains	realised	by	investors	in
industry	during	the	second	half	of	the	century.
	
The	Impact	of	Rail
The	economic	significance	of	railways	can	be	quantified	with	some	degree	of
precision.	Between	1828	and	1848	around	1,250	miles	of	track	were	built	in
France,	with	peaks	of	investment	in	1841,	1843	and	1846-7.	In	the	first	instance,
the	railways	were	financed	by	a	multitude	of	small	companies—between	1826
and	1838	around	500	
sociétés	en	commandite
	were	formed	with	nominal	capital
of	520	million	francs.	In	1845	alone,	twenty-eight	companies	were	set	up	with
almost	as	much	capital.	The	Rothschilds	were	without	question	the	dominant
force	in	this	process.	To	be	sure,	their	name	figures	in	only	four	out	of	thirty-two

--- Page 566 ---
concessions	granted	between	1835	and	1846.	But	of	225	million	francs
contributed	by	French	banks	to	railway	capital	formation	between	1835	and
1846,	the	Rothschilds	accounted	for	84.6	million—38	per	cent	of	the	total,	and
nearly	a	tenth	of	all	capital	subscribed.
This	dominance	was	in	many	ways	quite	natural.	Apart	from	the	superior
resources	of	de	Rothschild	Frères	compared	with	its	French	rivals,	James	had	the
unique	advantage	of	a	direct	familial	link	to	the	London	market.	This	was
crucial,	for	without	British	capital	(and	technology),	the	progress	of	French
railway	construction	would	without	question	have	been	slower.	It	has	been
roughly	estimated	that	half	the	capital	invested	in	French	railways	by	1847	was
British,	and	only	a	quarter	of	French	locomotives	were	domestically	produced.
The	role	of	the	state	in	the	railway	boom	can	also	be	quantified.	From	1840,
when	the	first	state	subsidies	began	to	be	paid	out	by	the	new	Ministry	of	Public
Works,	until	1849,	around	7.2	million	francs	were	spent	annually	on	railways	by
the	state,	between	a	fifth	and	a	quarter	of	annual	average	gross	investment.	In
aggregate	terms,	this	would	generally	be	considered	by	modern	economic
historians	as	money	well	spent.	Problematic	though	it	is	to	calculate	exactly	the
“social	savings”	generated	by	railways	(in	the	form	not	only	of	more	efficient
internal	and	external	communications	but	also	of	“backward	linkages”	to	the
coal,	iron	and	steel	industries),	France	would	unquestionably	have	been	worse
off	without	them.
Yet	contemporaries	did	not	tend	to	assess	the	Rothschilds’	role	in	railways	in
such	arid,	macroeconomic	terms.	In	general,	they	were	more	concerned	with	the
distribution	of	the	benefits	generated	by	the	railway	boom	than	with	their
developmental	
impact.	They	were	also	more	concerned	with	the	social	costs	of
railways	than	modern	economic	historians.	This	helps	to	explain	why	the
cultural	and	political	responses	to	the	railways	were	in	such	stark	contrast	to
their	macroeconomic	impact.
To	be	sure,	there	was	no	shortage	of	writers	who	were	ready	and	willing	to
“puff	”	rail	travel	as	the	wonder	of	the	age.	The	1830s	and	1840s	saw	a	spate	of
odes	and	hymns	to	the	railway,	a	classic	example	of	which	was	composed	by	an
obscure	poetaster	named	Hugelmann	to	mark	the	inauguration	of	the	Nord	line
on	June	14,	1846.	It	was	entitled	simply:	“To	Rothschild”:
A	dragon	hurtled	through	space,	
Throwing	fire	down	on	the	lanes;	
A	genius	covered	its	face;	
Put	its	powerful	hands	in	chains;	

--- Page 567 ---
And	turning	towards	our	world	
He	threw	up	the	dust	in	a	whirl	
With	the	smoking	beast	in	his	thrall	
He	transported	it	with	a	firm	hold;	
Then	showing	this	giant	in	chains	
To	the	waiting	millions	of	men,	
He	says:	“I	will	make	you	some	reins;	
Be	enslaved;	here	is	my	gold	.	.	.”	
He	speaks	and	the	mountain	sides	yield,	
They	fall	and	their	clifftops	descend;	
The	dragon	traverses	the	fields,	
The	earth	it	shakes	under	its	bonds;	
Germans,	united	with	Gaul,	
For	this	power	their	defences	let	fall	
Who	is	come	back	to	life	to	recall	
The	forts	that	the	emperors	quit,	
And	whose	urn,	as	it	inclines	
Disperses	his	seed	divine	
On	the	running	board	lined	with	ermine	
And	the	labourers’	humble	hamlet.
Even	the	usually	acerbic	Heine	was—on	occasion—moved	to	write	in	a
similar,	if	rather	less	hyperbolic,	vein.	“All	eyes	are	now	turned	to	the	House	of
Rothschild,”	he	reported	when	James’s	intention	to	bid	for	the	Nord	concession
was	first	made	public,	“which	represents	the	society	formed	to	construct	the
Northern	French	railway	system	in	a	way	that	is	financially	as	sound	as	it	is
socially	praiseworthy.	The	House	of	Rothschild,	which	in	former	times	directed
its	talents	and	resources	exclusively	to	the	needs	of	governments,	now	places
itself	at	the	head	of	great	national	undertakings,	devoting	its	enormous	capital
and	its	immeasurable	credit	to	the	advancement	of	industry	and	the	prosperity	of
the	people.”	When	the	lines	to	Orléans	and	Rouen	were	opened	in	May	1843,
Heine	was	positively	lyrical	in	his	enthusiasm.	He	detected	in	Paris
a	tremor,	which	is	felt	by	everyone,	unless	he	has	been	sent	into	solitary
confinement.	The	whole	population	of	Paris	constitutes	at	this	moment	a	chain,
which	communicates	the	electric	shock	from	one	person	to	another.	While	the
great	mass	of	people	gapes	astounded	and	dumb-struck	at	the	outward
manifestation	of	these	great	motive	forces,	the	
philosopher	is	seized	by	a	strange

--- Page 568 ---
horror,	the	way	we	always	feel	when	the	most	monstrous,	unheard	of	thing
happens,	the	consequences	of	which	are	unforeseeable	and	incalculable.	Let	us
just	say	that	our	entire	existence	is	being	ripped	up	and	hurled	on	to	new	tracks;
that	new	relationships,	pleasures	and	torments	await	us,	and	the	unknown	exerts
its	ghastly	fascination,	irresistible,	yet	at	the	same	time	fearful.	Our	forefathers
must	have	felt	the	same	when	America	was	discovered,	when	the	invention	of
gunpowder	announced	itself	with	the	first	shots,	when	the	printing	press	sent	the
first	proof	copies	of	the	Word	of	God	into	the	world.	The	railways	are	another
such	providential	event	.	.	.
Yet	already	Heine	sounded	a	characteristically	ambivalent	note	of	warning
when	he	considered	the	political	influence	which	the	railways	were	conferring
on	those	who	built	them.	The	“ruling	aristocracy	of	money,”	he	suggested,
exercised	“more	and	more	control	every	day	over	the	rudder	of	state”:	“Soon
those	people	will	constitute	not	only	the	supervisory	board	of	the	railway
company,	but	also	the	supervisory	board	of	our	entire	civil	society.”	For	Heine,
the	most	intriguing	aspect	of	the	railway	boom	was	the	way	that	aristocratic	and
military	elites	(even	admirals)	flocked	to	associate	themselves	with	it.	They	lent
their	names	as	non-executive	directors	and	invested	their	savings.	They	were
even	reduced	to	begging	for	share	options	in	new	companies	like	the	Nord:
[E]very	share	which	members	of	this	house	[of	Rothschild]	grants	to	individuals
is	really	a	great	favour—speaking	plainly	I	should	say	that	it	is	in	fact	a	present
of	money	which	M.	de	Rothschild	makes	his	friends.	The	shares	ultimately
issued	.	.	.	are	from	the	beginning	worth	several	hundred	francs	above	par,	and
whoever	asks	Baron	James	de	Rothschild	for	such	shares	at	par,	begs	from	him
in	the	literal	sense	of	the	word.	But	then—the	whole	world	is	begging	from	him;
he	is	inundated	by	begging	letters,	and	where	the	greatest	aristocrats	have	set
such	a	noble	example,	begging	can	no	longer	be	considered	a	disgrace.
Heine	was	not	alone	in	portraying	James’s	mutation	into	a	railway	baron	in	an
essentially	light-hearted	light.	Rothschild	railway	jokes	were	another
characteristic	by-product	of	the	era.	Punning	on	the	double	meaning	of	the
French	
action
	(a	share)	the	writer	Prosper	Mérimée	told	Madame	de	Montijo	a
typical	one	in	February	1846:
The	rabbi	who	teaches	the	children	of	M.	de	Rothschild	asked	one	of	them,	a
young	lad	of	seven,	if	he	knew	the	difference	between	a	good	action	and	a	bad
action.	“Without	a	doubt,”	replied	the	child.	“A	good	action	is	an	action	of	the

--- Page 569 ---
Nord,	a	bad	action	is	an	action	of	the	Rive	Gauche.”	Believe	me,	that	boy	will
not	lose	his	father’s	millions.
Seven	years	later,	Count	Nesselrode	told	his	cousin	a	“mot	de	Rothschild”	which
may	even	have	been	true	as	well	as	archetypal.	“Count	Tassilo	Festeticz
consulted	him	about	the	investment	of	a	considerable	sum.	‘M.	le	comte,’
Rothschild	told	him,	‘if	you	want	your	capital	without	interest,	buy	land.	If	you
want	your	interest	without	capital,	buy	shares.’	”	“It	happened	in	Paris,”	added
Nesselrode,	“but	it	is	universally	true.”	Such	anecdotes	are	too	easily	dismissed
as	apocryphal.	But	the	
Rothschilds’	private	correspondence	confirms	that	at	least
one	of	them	was	not	far	from	the	truth.	In	November	1848	Betty	told	her	son
Alphonse	how	his	four-year-old	brother	Edmond	had	“got	into	the	habit	of
taking	my	prayer	book	for	his	devotions.	And	yesterday,	in	one	of	his	pious
outbursts,	what	if	he	doesn’t	say,	‘I	pray	to	our	good	Lord	God	for	Papa	[and]	for
the	
chemin	de	fer	du	Nord
	!’	”
Yet	not	everyone	was	so	amused.	In	the	course	of	the	1840s,	a	growing
number	of	journalists	began	to	express	hostility	towards	what	they	regarded	as	a
dangerous	and	corrupting	private	monopoly.	Above	all,	the	Nord	concession
came	to	symbolise	what	more	radical	critics	of	the	July	Monarchy	regarded	as	its
fundamental	rottenness.	It	began	in	newspapers	like	the	
Courrier	Français
,	the
Réforme
,	the	
Univers
	and	the	
Quotidienne
.	But	it	took	its	most	virulent	form	in
cheaply	produced	polemical	books	and	pamphlets	like	Alphonse	Toussenel’s	
The
Jews,	Kings	of	the	Epoch:	A	History	of	Financial	Feudalism
.
In	some	respects,	Toussenel	was	in	a	tradition	dating	back	to	the	1820s	of
radical	critics	who	laced	their	diatribes	against	political	corruption	with	a	strong
dose	of	anti-Semitism.	The	thrust	of	his	argument	was	directed	against	the
financial	terms	under	which	the	Nord	concession	had	been	granted	(and	could
just	as	easily	have	been	made	without	reference	to	James’s	Jewishness).
According	to	Toussenel,	the	government	had	effectively	ceded	all	the	profits
from	the	line	to	the	Rothschild-led	company	for	forty	years,	while	retaining	all
the	expenses	for	itself—that	is	“for	the	nation.”	The	state	would	pay	out	an
estimated	100	million	francs	for	the	land	across	which	the	railway	would	be
built,	while	the	company	would	merely	advance	the	state	the	cost—around	60
million	francs—of	the	rails	and	rolling	stock,	money	which	the	state	would
reimburse	when	the	concession	expired.	In	effect,	Toussenel	argued,	the
company	was	lending	the	state	60	million	francs	in	return	for	an	income	from	the
line	of	around	14	million	francs	a	year,	to	say	nothing	of	the	speculative	profits
on	the	shares	it	issued	to	the	public.	Would	it	not	have	been	more	rational,	he

--- Page 570 ---
asked,	for	the	state	to	have	borrowed	the	money	itself—which	would	have	cost
just	2.4	million	francs	a	year	in	interest—and	to	have	built	and	run	the	railways
as	a	state	enterprise?	Why	pay	five	times	that	much	to	acquire	the	line	forty
years	in	the	future?
At	one	level,	this	was	a	not	implausible	argument	for	public	sector	control	of
the	railway	network	on	the	Belgian	model:	similar	economic	nationalism	was
being	advocated	in	Germany	at	around	this	time.	And	in	its	critique	of	the
distributional	consequences	of	government	policy,	Toussenel’s	book	evinced	a
debt	to	early	socialist	thinkers	like	Fourier.	“The	enormous	profits”	generated	by
the	railways	came	partly	from	the	“labour	of	the	French	worker	and	artisan”:
“Who	pays	for	the	speculator’s	premiums	of	hundred	of	millions?	The	worker,
the	people.	Who	suffers	on	account	of	the	ignorance	and	cowardice	of	those	in
power?	The	people.”
However,	Toussenel’s	economic	argument	was	inextricably	linked	to	a
visceral	anti-Semitism.	He	angrily	denounced	the	“traitors,	hacks,	deputies,
ministers	who	would	sell	France	to	the	Jews	.	.	.	in	these	times	of	irritation	and
political	senility.”	This	identification	of	the	railway	companies	with	a	single
religious	group	required	a	considerable	definitional	elasticity,	given	the
prominent	role	of	manifestly	non-Jewish	investors	from	England	and
Switzerland.	But	Toussenel—setting	an	example	which	future	generations	of
anti-Semites	would	readily	follow—had	no	difficulty	
with	this.	Rattling	off	the
names	of	the	various	railway	companies	and	their	principal	shareholders,	he
portrayed	them	all	as	satellites	of	a	single	cosmopolitan,	Jewish	
haute	banque
,
personified	by	“Baron	Rothschild,	the	King	of	Finance,	a	Jew	ennobled	by	a
very	Christian	King.”	In	the	1840s	“Jew”	ceased	to	be	a	purely	religious
category	and	became	synonymous	with	the	type	of	the	exploitative	capitalist.
Toussenel’s	book	was	profoundly	influential,	spawning	a	succession	of
imitators—who	were	generally	only	too	glad	to	repeat	verbatim	his	charges,	and
add	some	more	for	good	measure.	Within	a	year	of	the	first	edition,	a	still	more
violent	pamphlet	was	published	under	the	pseudonym	of	“Satan”	by	an	obscure
hack	named	Georges	Dairnvaell,	entitled	
The	Edifying	and	Curious	History	of
Rothschild	I,	King	of	the	Jews
.	According	to	Dairnvaell,	the	Rothschilds	had
secured	the	Nord	contract	by	corrupt	means,	distributing	15,000	shares	to
deputies;	moreover,	they	had	then	defrauded	these	same	shareholders	by	an
unauthorised	issue	of	shares,	which	reduced	the	value	of	the	original	stock.
James	was	“Rothschild	I	.	.	.	the	speculator-monarch	.	.	.	a	capitalist	who
enriches	himself	incessantly	while	the	fathers	of	children	lose	all	but	their	last

--- Page 571 ---
crust	of	bread.”	In	the	later	wave	of	anti-Semitic	journalism	of	the	1880s	and
1890s,	similar	allegations	were	trotted	out:	Chirac,	for	example,	claimed	that
James	distributed	Nord	shares	to	friendly	papers	like	the	
Constitutionnel
	or	the
Journal	des	Débats
	and	even	slipped	a	couple	of	shares	under	the	serviettes	of
selected	dinner	guests!	Drumont	repeated	the	charges	made	by	Toussenel;
Scherb	merely	translated	the	relevant	chunk	of	Dairnvaell.	The	same	stories
were	being	repeated	even	after	1945.
Was	there	any	substance	to	these	attacks?	One	modern	historian	has	argued
that	“The	system	of	[railway]	finance	.	.	.	seemed	to	guarantee	the	maximum
costs	to	the	state	with	the	maximum	secure	benefits	to	shareholders.”	The	public
appetite	for	Nord	shares	was	enormous.	The	list	of	names	who	approached
James	and	Lionel	for	this	purpose	is	an	impressive	one:	as	one	contemporary
joked,	James	must	have	had	a	“rather	precious	autograph	collection”	of	the
Parisian	social	elite	by	the	time	the	deadline	for	applications	passed.	Baron
Stockmar	was	an	early	investor	in	French	rails,	conceivably	on	behalf	of	Prince
Albert.	Lady	Ailesbury,	the	widow	of	the	1st	Marquess,	was	another.	Disraeli
bought	150	shares	in	the	Paris-Strasbourg	line	in	1845,	though	this	proved	a
“very	indifferent”	speculation	and	he	sold	them	just	a	few	months	later.	Lionel
also	“gave”	him	some	shares	in	the	Nord.	Another	investor	in	the	Nord	was
Balzac,	though	he	had	to	pay	for	his	150	shares—unlike	a	less	well-known
writer	Jules	Janin,	who	later	wrote	that	“M.	de	Rothschild	.	.	.	saved	me	and	my
novel	[
Clarisse	Harlowe
]	with	a	few	Nord	shares.”	Yet	evidence	that	shares
were	allocated	to	needy	writers	with	the	specific	intention	of	influencing	the
granting	of	the	concession	is	lacking.	Indeed,	one	contemporary	had	the
impression	that	most	of	the	shares	were	being	allocated	“arbitrarily.”	This	seems
plausible	given	the	sheer	number	of	shareholders	involved.	As	the	Minister	of
Public	Works	Dumon,	pointed	out,	there	were	12,461	subscribers	for	the	Nord,
31,000	for	the	Strasbourg	line	and	24,000	for	the	line	to	Lyon.	It	is	also	worth
asking	whether	such	large	numbers	would	have	come	forward	in	the	absence	of	a
government	subsidy.	It	seems	unlikely.	Even	with	the	subsidy,	those	who	held	on
to	their	Nord	shares	saw	only	a	temporary	(if	impressive)	capital	gain.	In	the
months	between	the	granting	of	the	concession	and	the	opening	of	the	line,	the
shares	were	being	traded	at	
prices	above	750	francs,	compared	with	a	nominal
price	of	500.	However,	within	days	of	its	inauguration,	a	tragic	and	not	wholly
unpredictable	event	provided	a	reminder	that,	government	subsidy	or	no,
railways	were	a	risky	business.	In	the	light	of	the	events	of	1846-8,	the	allegation
that	the	Rothschilds	made	immense	and	improper	profits	from	the	Nord

--- Page 572 ---
concession	must	be	regarded	with	scepticism.
	
An	Accident	Happens
On	June	14,	1846,	James	de	Rothschild	invited	1,700	guests	to	celebrate	the
opening	of	the	Nord	line.	Transported	in	first	class	carriages	of	the	Compagnie
du	Chemin	de	Fer	du	Nord,	the	party	lunched	at	Lille,	dined	at	Brussels	and	then
returned	to	Paris	the	next	day.	A	cantata	was	composed	specially	for	the	occasion
by	Berlioz	and	Jules	Janin	and,	to	ensure	the	best	possible	press	coverage,
invitations	were	sent	to	Victor	Hugo,	Alexandre	Dumas,	Prosper	Mérimée	and
Théophile	Gautier,	who	described	the	inauguration	in	a	piece	for	the	
Presse
.	It
was	the	day,	in	Dairnvaell’s	words,	“when	the	royalty	of	Rothschild	I	was
officially	recognised”	and	James	Rothschild	was	proclaimed	“
King	of	Europe,
Asia,	Africa,	America,	Oceania	and	other	places
,	and	above	all,	
King	of	the
Jews
.”	Just	twenty-four	days	later,	at	3	p.m.	on	July	8,	a	train	running	north	on
the	same	line	was	derailed	at	Fampoux	when	a	rail	gave	way	on	an	embankment
running	along	the	side	of	a	marshy	lake.	According	to	an	eyewitness	account,	the
first	locomotive	pulling	the	twenty-nine-carriage	train	kept	going,	but	the	second
came	to	a	sudden	halt,	snapping	the	connecting	chains	between	the	carriages
behind	it.	Thirteen	carriages	came	off	the	track,	one	was	crushed	by	the	impact
and	three	others	sank	in	the	lake.	Despite	heroic	efforts	by	passengers	in	the	rear
coaches,	between	fourteen	and	thirty-nine	people	died.
The	conflicting	estimates	of	the	death	toll	were	products	of	the	subsequent,
violent	public	debate	between	the	railway	company	and	a	chorus	of	hostile
journalists,	led	by	Georges	Dairnvaell,	for	whom	the	accident	seemed	to
encapsulate	the	wickedness	not	just	of	the	company	but	of	the	political	system
which	had	granted	the	concession,	of	the	Jews	and	above	all	of	the	Rothschilds.
There	had,	of	course,	been	railway	accidents	before.	Heine	had	already	written
bitter	words	on	the	subject	following	a	fire	on	the	Versailles	line:
What	a	dreadful	disaster,	for	instance,	was	the	fire	on	the	Versailles	railway!	I
am	not	referring	now	to	the	Sunday	crowd	roasted	or	parboiled	on	this	occasion;
I	refer	rather	to	the	surviving	Sabbath	company,	whose	stock	tumbled	by	so
many	per	cent,	and	which	now	awaits,	with	fear	and	trembling,	the	outcome	of
the	lawsuits	brought	against	it	after	this	catastrophe.	Will	the	promoters	or
founders	of	the	company	be	made	to	disgorge	some	money	to	compensate	the
orphaned	or	maimed	victims	of	their	avid	pursuit	of	profit?	How	terrible	that
would	be!	These	millionaires	are	much	to	be	pitied	.	.	.

--- Page 573 ---
But	Dairnvaell	took	his	recriminations	much	further.	The	Nord	company,	he
alleged,	had	ignored	warnings	about	the	poor	quality	of	its	rails	and	continued
running	the	normal	service	after	the	accident	had	happened,	despite	the	fact	that
the	signals	were	not	working	properly.	At	the	same	time,	its	directors	had
profited	by	selling	their	own	shares	before	news	of	the	accident	got	out.	This
was	bad	enough	
by	itself;	but	in	truth,	he	argued,	it	was	just	the	latest	example	of
the	way	“Rothschild”	and	the	Jews	treated	the	French	people.	Dairnvaell	thus
used	the	Nord	accident	as	the	basis	for	a	vitriolic	recounting	of	the	Rothschilds’
“history”	of	battening	off	France,	beginning	with	the	battle	of	Waterloo	and
culminating	at	Fampoux:
They	have	enriched	themselves	from	our	impoverishment	and	from	our	disasters
.	.	.	they	have	stayed	with	us	the	way	the	leech	stays	on	a	man’s	vein	.	.	.	[like]
the	vampires	of	commerce	and	the	scourges	of	nations	.	.	.	The	Rothschilds	have
only	ever	gained	from	our	disasters;	when	France	has	won,	the	Rothschilds	have
lost.	This	house	is	our	evil	genius.
Dairnvaell’s	allegations	unleashed	an	extraordinary	and	protracted	pamphlet
war.	At	least	seven	separate	publications	appeared	in	the	succeeding	months,
some	denouncing	James	in	similar	terms,	others	defending	him,	still	others
claiming	to	judge	the	two	sides	impartially.	The	so-called	
First	Official	Response
of	M.	Baron	James	Rothschild
	claimed	that	Dairnvaell	was	little	better	than	a
blackmailer	who	had	demanded	5,000	francs	from	James	in	return	for	not
publishing	his	
Edifying	History
,	and	had	gone	into	print	when	James	had	offered
him	only	a	thousand	francs.
5
	A	similar	attack	on	Dairnvaell	appeared	in	the
Response	of	Rothschild	I,	King	of	the	Jews,	to	Satan	the	Last,	King	of	the
Impostors
.	In	swift	response	came	three	further	anti-Rothschild	pamphlets:	
War
on	the	Swindlers
	(by	Dairnvaell	himself	),
6
	
Rothschild	I,	his	Valets	and	his
People
	and	
Ten	Days	in	the	Reign	of	Rothschild	I,	King	of	the	Jews
	
(both
anonymous).	Finally,	there	were	attempts	to	adjudicate.	The	
Letter	to	M.	Baron
de	Rothschild
	rebutted	Dairnvaell’s	historical	allegations,	but	concluded	that	“the
Rothschild	brothers	have	done	nothing	for	the	peoples	[of	the	world],	and
consequently,	nothing	for	humanity	.	.	.	M.	de	Rothschild	.	.	.	has	a	thirst	for
money,	and	that’s	all	there	is	to	it.”	More	overtly	hostile	to	James	was	the	
Grand
Process	between	Rothschild	I,	King	of	the	Jews,	and	Satan,	last	King	of	the
Impostors
,	which	described	James	as	“King	of	the	Jews,	sometime	bailiff	of	the
courts	of	Europe,	farmer	general	of	public	works	of	France,	Germany,	England
etc.	etc.,	and	sovereign	of	discount,	usury,	pawn-broking,	speculation	etc.”

--- Page 574 ---
Of	all	these	works	of	hackery,	perhaps	the	most	sophisticated	was	the
anonymous	
Judgement	Passed	against	Rothschild	and	Georges	Dairnvaell
,
which	rejected	the	charge	of	culpability	for	the	Fampoux	disaster,	but	argued	that
“the	proletarian”	had	been	right	to	attack	“the	millionaire”	with	his	“pockets	full
of	banknotes	and	shares.”	Like	Toussenel,	the	author	of	the	
Judgement
essentially	equated	Judaism	and	capitalism:	James	was	“the	Jew	Rothschild,
king	of	the	world,	because	today	the	whole	world	is	Jewish.”	The	name
Rothschild	“stands	for	a	whole	race—it	is	a	symbol	of	a	power	which	extends	its
arms	over	the	entirety	of	Europe.”	Yet	the	Rothschilds	were	breaking	no	laws	in
“turning	and	returning”	their	capital	and	“exploiting	all	that	is	exploitable”:	they
were	merely	“the	model	of	all	the	bourgeois	and	mercantile	virtues.”	It	was	the
bourgeoisie	as	a	whole	which	had	“bent	its	knee	before	the	Jewish	golden	calf	”
and	embraced	the	“Jews”	hereditary	doctrine	of	the	unlimited	exploitation	of
property.”	Rothschild,	in	short,	personified	“a	system	which	is	responsible	for
the	misery	and	desperation	of	millions	of	men.”	In	constructing	his	railways	for
industrial	and	commercial	gain,	rather	than	to	promote	
“the	fraternisation	and
amalgamation	of	the	whole	human	race,”	Rothschild	was	thus	fulfilling	“the
development	of	the	bourgeoisie.”	This	combination	of	anti-Semitism	and
socialism	would	prove	the	most	dangerous	of	all	threats	to	the	Rothschilds’
position	in	the	years	which	lay	ahead.
As	might	be	expected,	the	Rothschilds	themselves	were	appalled	by	this
extensive	and	generally	defamatory	press	exposure.	In	a	letter	to	the	Prussian
government,	Anselm	deplored	what	he	called	“the	foulest	and	entirely
unfounded	imputations	upon	the	character	and	morality	of	our	business.”	There
was	little,	however,	that	could	be	done	in	the	absence	of	censorship	of	the	press
in	France;	only	when	similar	pamphlets	appeared	in	Prussia	could	the
Rothschilds	lobby	to	have	them	suppressed,	pointedly	reminding	the	government
in	Berlin	of	“important	services”	they	had	rendered	to	Prussia	in	the	past,	and	the
“special	claim”	this	implied.	James	thundered	impotently,	accusing	the	press	of
mindless	Luddism:	“The	world	can	no	longer	live	without	the	railways	and	the
best	answer	one	can	give	to	the	
National
	is	that	if	France	should	opt	to	exclude
herself	from	the	railway	developments	and	if	they	hope	to	achieve	their	goal	of
frightening	the	world	from	using	the	railways	then	the	result	will	be	that	all	the
travellers	will	make	use	of	the	other	railway	routes”:
In	an	article	I	will	ask	whether	the	newspapers	want	to	see	France	.	.	.	pushing
the	bounds	of	civilisation	back	and	whether	they	are	trying	to	prevent	the
railways	from	being	completed,	for	their	whole	thrust	seems	to	lead	in	that

--- Page 575 ---
direction,	so	that	the	remaining	payments	are	not	met	[and]	they	can	then	buy
them	back	again	cheaply[;]	at	the	same	time	everyone	can	see	with	what
enormous	strides	the	railways	are	being	developed	everywhere	else.	I	am,
however,	convinced	that	the	opposition	will	not	succeed	in	its	aim.	It	is	best	if
one	simply	lets	them	scream	and	talk	.	.	.	I	am	therefore	not	in	favour	of
initiating	legal	proceedings	which	will	only	mean	that	this	issue	will	be	a
permanent	topic	of	discussion	when	the	damned	Augsburg	and	Cologne
newspapers	are	always	opposed	to	us.	It	would	be	best	if	one	would	make	use	of
these	other	than	as	reading	material.
Contemplating	the	poisonous	prose	of	pamphleteers	like	Dairnvaell,	the
modern	reader	is	tempted	to	sympathise	with	James’s	attitude.	Yet	it	cannot	be
denied	that	the	Rothschilds’	private	correspondence	suggests	at	least	a	degree	of
callousness	towards	the	victims	of	the	Fampoux	accident.	Accidents	were
regrettable,	of	course,	but	principally	because	of	their	negative	financial
consequences	for	the	railway	companies	concerned.	The	development	of	this
attitude	can	be	traced	back	to	the	first	minor	accidents	on	the	Saint-Germain	line
in	the	1830s.	When	these	led	to	a	sharp	fall	in	the	price	of	the	company’s	shares,
James	blamed	the	press:
The	newspapers	are	astounded	by	the	falls	suffered	by	all	the	shares.	They
themselves	are	wholly	responsible	for	this.	Instead	of	behaving	as	they	do	in
England	where	they	don’t	discuss	any	accident	and	provide	statistics	to	show
how	rarely	accidents	happen	on	the	railways—when	Huskisson	lost	his	life	in
Manchester	the	talk	was	.	.	.	not	that	the	railway	was	to	blame—in	Paris	they	do
exactly	the	opposite.	Whenever	an	accident	occurs,	every	newspaper	asks,	“Who
will	now	want	to	travel	[by	train]?	Why	are	the	police	not	dealing	with	this?”	.	.	.
I	think	that	
you	will	do	well	if	you	will	arrange	through	Pereire	for	an	article	to
be	published	against	these	newspaper	articles	to	explain	to	the	newspapers	the
true	reason	for	the	falls	we	have	been	experiencing.	I	see	that	there	has	been	a
drastic	fall	in	the	income	from	the	St-Germain	railway	and	this	is	probably	the
reason	why.
In	1842	an	accident	on	another	line	persuaded	James	to	postpone	further
negotiations	for	the	Nord	concession:	it	was	decided,	Nat	reported,	“to	wait	to
see	what	damages	will	be	awarded	to	the	wounded	&	to	the	families	of	the
Killed	before	entering	into	new	affairs	of	this	sort,	you	know	in	Paris	the	juries
are	very	severe	with	those	who	are	the	direct	or	even	indirect	causers	of
accidents.”	When	“a	meeting	of	Engineers”	was	“silly	enough	to	recommend	all

--- Page 576 ---
sorts	of	foolish	plans	to	be	adopted	in	order	to	prevent	the	recurrence	of
accidents,”	James	immediately	“called	upon	several	of	the	Ministers	&	told	them
he	would	send	in	his	resignation	as	administrateur	unless	they	acted	in	concert
with	the	direction	of	the	railroads	which	they	have	promised	to	do.”	Similarly,
the	collapse	of	a	viaduct	on	the	line	from	Rouen	to	Le	Havre	interested	James
primarily	because	of	its	likely	impact	on	the	share	price.
It	would	be	wrong	to	suggest	that	the	family’s	response	to	the	Fampoux
accident	was	wholly	lacking	in	compassion.	“Poor	people,”	wrote	Anthony	when
the	news	of	the	“stinking	slip”	first	reached	Paris.	It	was	he	added,	“a	thousand
pities—as	it	will	certainly	do	no	good	for	the	moment—it	has	certainly	put	me
out	a	great	deal.”	James,	it	was	reported,	was	“very	much	affected,”	having	used
the	line	“only	two	days	earlier”	on	his	way	to	take	the	waters	at	Wildbad.	But	the
true	nature	of	their	distress	became	evident	in	Anthony’s	next	bulletin	to	New
Court:
It	is	a	thousand	pities—as	everything	was	going	on	so	well.	They	took	27,000
fr[ancs]	a	day	for	the	last	four	days	&	it	is	more	every	day.	It	has	not	stopped	the
working	of	the	line	&	there	are	as	many	people	as	formerly.	It	will	only	require
very	great	care.	I	cannot	give	you	the	reason	of	the	Accident	&	you	must	have	a
little	patience.	In	the	meantime	it	is	very	unpleasant	&	it	makes	our	head	ache
most	famously	.	.	.	They	talk	of	nothing	else	but	of	this	accident,	&	you	know
what	an	impression	it	makes	in	Paris.	The	price	of	shares	have	[
sic
]	fallen	to	712
&	I	should	not	at	all	be	astonished	to	see	them	lower	.	.	.	We	have	just	received
the	accounts	from	Pereire	who	says	that	there	were	only	14	[killed]	in	all	&	that
the	accident	is	not	so	bad	as	reported.—In	a	day	or	two	it	will	be	forgotten	but
they	will	try	to	knock	the	shares	down.
Salomon’s	reaction	is	also	revealing.	It	was,	he	remarked,	a	“stroke	of	luck	no
person	of	high	rank	was	grieved	by	the	disaster,	as	the	alarm	about	it	would	have
been	even	stronger.”
To	be	fair,	the	Rothschilds	did	not—as	Dairnvaell	alleged—act	improperly.
James	protested	that	only	days	before	the	accident	he	had	“left	[the	train]	at
every	station	and	inspected	the	carriages	and	then	let	the	train	continue	on	its
way,”	a	fact	he	was	glad	to	see	reported	in	the	German	press.	An	investigation
into	the	cause	of	the	accident	was	immediately	undertaken	and	drivers	were
issued	with	instructions	“to	go	as	slow	as	possible	over	the	places	when	there	is
the	least	danger.”	Yet	there	is	no	escaping	the	fact	that	Anthony	and	his	brothers’
primary	concern	was	to	
limit	the	damage	to	the	Nord	share	price	by	intervening

--- Page 577 ---
on	the	Paris	market,	and	resuming	normal	service	on	the	line	as	quickly	as
possible.	Anthony’s	letter	to	Lionel	of	July	gives	an	insight	into	his	priorities	in
the	wake	of	the	disaster:
There	is	a	good	deal	of	speculation	going	forward	in	the	shares.	The	Baron	has
made	so	much	money	that	they	do	everything	that	they	can	to	make	the	shares
fall.	They	spread	all	the	lies,	stories	&	God	knows	what	else—The	line	is	a	most
tremendously	long	one—it	is	quite	new	&	of	course	as	all	new	lines	are	it	will
require	a	good	deal	of	time	to	get	everything	in	to	proper	order—You	cannot
make	a	regiment	of	French	frogs	in	a	minute—They	have	that	nationality	that
they	think	that	they	can	do	always	everything	better	than	others—I	hope	that
they	will	listen	to	reason—&	have	a	few	people	from	England.	They	will	write
to	you	to	night	to	engage	
12	very	first	rate	Engine	Drivers
	.	.	.	They	have
decided	upon	making	the	line	wider	in	a	great	many	places	&	put	down	more
[sleepers?]	and	to	support	the	rails	&	to	have	the	line	again	looked	at.	This
accident	was	a	great	misfortune—The	shares	would	certainly	have	been	800
fr[ancs]	.	.	.	the	receipts	have	fallen	a	great	deal	within	the	last	few	days—I	do
not	much	care	about	it	as	the	whole	affair	will	be	able	to	be	better	organised	&
when	once	it	is	en	train	the	receipts	will	very	soon	get	up	again.
With	the	share	price	falling	towards	the	650	mark	and	receipts	down	40	per
cent,	the	Rothschilds	naturally	sought	a	scapegoat.	By	July	21	Anthony	was
claiming	“that	the	accident	was	done	intentionally	&	that	it	was	got	up	by	some
people	for	the	fall	of	the	shares,”	on	the	ground	that	twenty	or	thirty	of	the
clamps	holding	the	rails	to	the	sleepers	appeared	to	have	been	tampered	with.
One	suspects	this	was	wishful	thinking.	“I	wish	we	could	find	it	out,”	he	told	his
brothers	in	London,	“but	the	people	who	speculate	for	the	fall	are	such	a	set	of
Blackguards	in	this	part	of	the	world	that	I	almost	think	that	they	got	[it]	done	.	.
.	[I]f	it	was	the	case	it	would	be	the	best	thing	in	the	world	for	the	company.”
It	did	not	prove	necessary	to	develop	this	conspiracy	theory	any	further.	As
the	weeks	passed,	the	traffic	on	the	Nord	line	began	to	recover	(beginning	with
the	third	class	passengers),	and	with	it	the	daily	take.	By	the	end	of	August	the
first	freight	trains	had	begun	to	run	and—symbolically—the	Nord	timetable	was
published	for	the	first	time	in	Bradshaw,	the	rail	traveller’s	bible.	Three	months
later	confidence	was	sufficiently	restored	for	Hannah	to	propose	to	her	sons	“a
little	Spec	in	[100]	Northern	shares”—a	not	unreasonable	proposition	when
James	could	estimate	gross	profits	for	the	line	at	3.2	million	francs.	“It	is	a
curious	circumstance,”	noted	Mayer	with	heroic	insouciance,	“that	on	the

--- Page 578 ---
Austrian	line	a	dreadful	accident	occurred	the	very	first	day	and	now	the	shares
are	at	100	per	cent	premium	which	I	am	positive	the	French	Northern	will	be.”
This	was	hubris;	and,	in	the	light	of	the	stark	economic	rationality	of	their
reaction	to	the	Fampoux	accident,	it	is	difficult	not	to	see	the	revolutionary	storm
which	was	to	break	over	the	Rothschilds’	heads	less	than	two	years	later	as	a
kind	of	terrible	nemesis.	(Perhaps	a	more	fitting	nemesis	came	eighteen	years
later,	when	Lionel’s	son	Natty	and	his	sister	Evelina	narrowly	escaped	serious
injury	when	an	express	taking	them	from	Paris	to	Calais	collided	with	a	goods
train.)
7
	To	vary	the	dramatic	image,	in	deciding	not	only	to	invest	in	but	also	to
construct	and	manage	railways,	the	Vienna	and	Paris	Rothschilds	had	made	a
pact	which	contemporaries	saw	in	Faustian	terms:	they	had	harnessed	Satan,	as
Eichendorff	put	it.	Yet	“Satan”—in	the	person	of	Dairnvaell—now	turned	on
Faust.	The	public	prominence	which	the	railways	had	given	the	Rothschilds
made	them	obvious	targets	for	the	new	social	revolution	which	was	already	in
preparation.

--- Page 579 ---
SIXTEEN
1848
Dans	toute	l’Europe	il	n’y	a	qu’un	cris	[sic]:
a	[sic]	bas	l’infâme	famille	des	Rothschild
NEMESIS
Le	peuple	se	vengera!
Le	peuple	ne	veut	pas	l’argent	qu’il	a	perdu	.	.	.	mais	le	peuple
veut	le	[sic]	peau	de	les	[sic]	infâmes	juifs.
—ANONYMOUS	LETTER	TO	NEW	COURT,	MARCH	1848
	
	
The	only	thing	we	must	aim	at,	is	to	maintain	our	name	in	honour,	&	for	that
purpose,	one	house	must	support	the	other	with	all	its	means	&	power,	for	the
dishonour	of	one	reflects	on	the	other.
—ANSELM	TO	HIS	LONDON	COUSINS,	APRIL	1848
	
	
	
	
“
[T]
here	is	no	error	so	vulgar,”	wrote	Benjamin	Disraeli	in	1844,	“as	to	believe
that	revolutions	are	occasioned	by	economical	causes.	They	come	in,	doubtless,
very	often	to	precipitate	a	catastrophe;	very	rarely	do	they	occasion	one.”	The
succeeding	four	years	were	to	prove	him	badly	wrong.
Unheralded	by	economic	crisis,	the	1830	revolution	had	seemed	to	the
Rothschilds	like	a	bolt	from	the	blue.	By	contrast,	the	1848	revolution	came	after
such	a	protracted	period	of	economic	depression	that	they	almost	grew	weary	of
waiting	for	the	storm	to	break—and	perhaps	even	began	to	imagine	that	it	never
would.	If	they	did	ultimately	fail	to	prepare	themselves	adequately	for	what	was
the	greatest	of	all	nineteenth-century	Europe’s	political	crises,	the	reason	perhaps
lies	in	the	timing	of	the	revolution.	The	economic	nadir	of	the	1840s	in	fact	came

--- Page 580 ---
in	1847;	by	the	spring	of	1848	the	worst	was	over.	With	hindsight,	historians	can
infer	that	it	was	precisely	at	this	point	that	political	instability	was	most	likely	to
occur,	as	popular	expectations	rose;	but	to	contemporary	bankers	that	was	far
from	apparent.
Another	difference	between	1830	and	1848	was	the	Rothschilds’	own	position
as	targets	of	revolutionary	action.	In	1830	James	had	been	sufficiently	distanced
from	the	regime	of	Charles	X	to	allow	a	relatively	easy	switch	to	the	Orléanist
side.	Eighteen	years	later	he	and	his	brothers	had	become	much	more	closely
identified	with	
the	established	regimes	not	only	in	France,	but	throughout
Europe.	As	bankers	not	only	to	the	Austrian	imperial	government	itself	but	also
to	numerous	smaller	states	in	Germany	and	Italy,	they	appeared—especially	to
the	nationalist	elements	within	the	revolutionary	movements—as	the
paymasters,	if	not	the	masters,	of	the	Metternichian	system.	Eduard
Kretschmer’s	1848	cartoon,	
Apotheosis	and	Adoration	of	the	Idol	of	our	Time
,
portrays	“Rothschild”	seated	upon	a	throne	of	money,	surrounded	by	kneeling
potentates	(see	illustration	16.i)—a	popular	image	of	the	period.	At	the	same
time,	the	Rothschilds’	financial	commitments	to	these	various	states	made	it
difficult	for	them	to	welcome	the	radical	redrawing	of	Europe’s	boundaries
implied	by	the	first	principle	of	political	nationalism—that	political	and	ethnic	or
linguistic	structures	should	be	congruent.	Writing	in	1846,	the	poet	Karl	Beck
lamented	“Rothschild’s”	refusal	to	use	his	financial	power	on	the	side	of	the
“peoples”—and	particularly	the	German	people—instead	of	their	detested
princes.

--- Page 581 ---
16.i:	Eduard	Kretschmer	(after	Andreas	Achenbach),
	
Apotheose	und
Anbetung	des	Götzen	unserer	Zeit
	
(1848).
Nor	was	it	as	easy	for	the	Rothschilds	to	contemplate	defecting	to	the	side	of
the	revolution	when	that	now	implied	a	republic	rather	than	merely	a	dynastic
change.	And	not	only	a	republic:	for	the	1848	revolution	was,	unlike	its
predecessor,	as	much	concerned	with	social	as	with	constitutional	issues.	For	the
first	time,	social
ist
	
(as	well	as	ultra-conservative)	arguments	against	economic
liberalism	were	voiced	alongside—and	sometimes	in	contradiction	to—the	older
arguments	for	political	liberalism	and	democracy.	Not	only	were	the
revolutionaries	concerned	with	rights	
(to	free	speech,	free	assembly	and	a	free
press)	and	with	representation	in	constitutionally	secured	legislatures;	some
among	them	were	also	concerned	to	combat	the	widening	material	inequality	of
the	early	industrial	era.	In	many	ways	the	Rothschilds	had	come	to	personify	that
inequality.	Nothing	demonstrated	that	better	than	the	explosion	of	anti-
Rothschild	sentiment	in	the	wake	of	the	accident	on	the	Nord	railway:	while
third-class	passengers	perished,	the	critics	suggested,	“Rothschild	I”	callously
counted	his	state-subsidised	profits.	Another	cartoon	of	1848	which	depicted
Rothschild	as	the	object	of	royal	(and	papal)	veneration	also	featured,	kneeling
in	the	foreground,	a	ragged,	starving	family;	and	in	the	background	a	group	of

--- Page 582 ---
students	marching	under	the	banner	of	liberty	(see	illustration	16.ii).	When	the
Russian	revolutionary	Alexander	Herzen	wished	to	define	the	bourgeoisie	in
1847,	he	called	it	“a	solid	estate,	the	limits	of	which	are	the	electoral	property
qualification	below	and	Baron	Rothschild	above.”	For	Herzen	liberalism	was
propagating	a	“malicious	irony”	when	it	claimed	that	“the	destitute	man	enjoys
the	same	civil	rights	as	Rothschild,”	or	that	“the	sated	is	.	.	.	the	comrade	of	the
hungry.”
As	in	the	1820s	and	1830s,	those	who	inveighed	against	the	Rothschilds	as
capitalists	could	rarely	resist	making	a	connection	with	their	Judaism.	Typically,
Karl	Beck	too	could	not	resist	alluding	to	“Rothschild’s	.	.	.	interest-calculating
brethren,”	“filling	the	insatiable	money-bag	for	themselves	and	their	kin	alone!”
Nor	is	it	surprising	that	minor	figures	like	Beck	were	doing	this	when	the	man
who	would	ulti-mately	prove	the	most	influential	of	all	the	period’s
revolutionaries	had	done	exactly	the	same	in	February	1844	in	an	essay	“On	the
Jewish	Question”	(though	at	the	time,	of	course,	there	was	little	to	distinguish
Karl	Marx	from	the	numerous	other	radical	hacks	churning	out	anti-Rothschild
abuse):
What	is	the	secular	basis	of	Judaism?	
Practical
	need,	
self-interest
.	What	is	the
worldly	religion	of	the	Jew?	
Huckstering
.	What	is	his	worldly	God?	
Money
	.	.	.
We	recognise	in	Judaism,	therefore,	a	general	
anti-social
	element	of	the	
present
time
	.	.	.	In	the	final	analysis,	the	
emancipation	of	the	Jews
	is	the	emancipation
of	mankind	from	
Judaism
.

--- Page 583 ---
16.ii:	Anon.,
	
Anbetung	der	Könige
	
(1848).
Marx	was	not	one	to	name	names,	of	course,	when	he	could	couch	his
argument	in	Hegelian	abstractions.	But	that	he	had	the	Rothschilds	in	mind	is
evident	from	the	passage	he	quoted	from	the	pamphlet	by	Bruno	Bauer	he	was
(ostensibly)	reviewing:
“The	Jew,	who	in	Vienna,	for	example,	is	only	tolerated,	determines	the	fate	of
the	whole	Empire	by	his	financial	power.	The	Jew,	who	may	have	no	rights	in
the	smallest	German	states,	decides	the	fate	of	Europe.”	This	is	no	isolated	fact
[continued	Marx].	The	Jew	has	emancipated	himself	in	a	Jewish	manner,	not
only	because	he	has	acquired	financial	power,	but	also	because	.	.	.	
money
	has
become	a	world	power	and	the	practical	Jewish	spirit	has	become	the	practical
spirit	of	the	Christian	nations.	The	Jews	have	emancipated	themselves	insofar	as
the	Christians	have	become	Jews.
Only	when	society	had	“succeeded	in	abolishing	the	
empirical
	essence	of
Judaism—huckstering	and	its	preconditions”	would	“the	Jew	.	.	.	become
impossible
.”	In	fact,	the	socialist	argument	could	stand	unsupported	by	racial
prejudice,	as	Marx	came	to	appreciate	(after	all,	he	himself	had	been	born	a	Jew,
as	had	Karl	Beck);	it	would	be	other	revolutionaries	of	1848	like	Richard

--- Page 584 ---
Wagner	who	would	later	develop	and	refine	this	line	of	argument.	Either	way,
the	Rothschilds	were	extremely	vulnerable	to	radical	calls	for	redistribution	of
wealth	and	greater	regulation	of	the	capitalists/Jews	who	possessed	it.	This	made
the	1848	revolution	much	more	dangerous	to	them	than	that	of	1830.
Though	politically	close	to	Marx	at	the	time	of	the	1848	revolution,	Heine
subsequently	made	fun	of	the	early	socialists’	motivations.	In	his	last	jottings,	he
wrote:
The	main	army	of	Rothschild’s	enemies	is	made	up	of	have-nots;	they	all	think:
“What	we	don’t	have,	Rothschild	has.”	They	are	joined	by	the	main	force	of
those	who	have	lost	their	fortune;	instead	of	ascribing	their	loss	to	their	own
stupidity,	they	blame	the	wiles	of	those	who	managed	to	hold	on	to	what	they
had.	As	soon	as	a	man	runs	out	of	money,	he	becomes	Rothschild’s	enemy.
And	he	adapted	a	traditional	Jewish	story	in	order	to	provide	James	with	a
possible	reply	to	the	socialist	threat:	“The	communist	.	.	.	wants	Rothschild	to
share	out	his	fortune	of	300	million	francs.	Rothschild	sends	him	his	share,
which	comes	to	exactly	9	sous:	‘Now	leave	me	alone!’	”	In	practice,	however,	it
did	not	prove	quite	so	easy	to	see	off	the	threat	of	expropriation.	In	his	first
surviving	letter	(dated	1843),	a	young	radical	named	Wilhelm	Marr	had	made
exactly	the	argument	
satirised	by	Heine.	“The	time	is	ripe,”	he	told	his	father,	“to
share	Rothschild’s	property	among	3,333,333.3	[
sic
]	poor	weavers,	which	will
feed	them	during	a	whole	year.”	The	roots	of	Marr’s	later	Anti-Semitic	League
lie	in	the	1840s.
A	few	voices,	as	we	have	seen,	were	raised	to	defend	the	Rothschilds.	One
ingenious	writer	in	the	Paris	
Globe
	pointed	out	in	1846	that	“no	one	today	better
represents	the	triumph	of	equality	and	work	in	the	nineteenth	century	than	M.	le
Baron	de	Rothschild”:
What	is	he,	in	fact?	Was	he	born	a	Baron?	No,	he	wasn’t	even	born	a	citizen;	he
was	born	a	pariah.	At	the	time	of	his	birth,	civil	liberty,	and	even	less	political
liberty,	did	not	exist	for	Jews.	To	be	a	Jew	was	to	be	less	than	a	lackey;	it	was	to
be	less	than	a	man;	it	was	to	be	a	dog	that	children	chased	in	the	street,	hurling
insults	and	stones.	Thanks	to	the	holy	principle	of	equality,	the	Jew	has	become	a
man,	the	Jew	has	become	a	citizen;	and	once	his	intelligence	[and]	his	activity	.	.
.	allowed,	he	could	rise	within	the	social	hierarchy.	What	better	or	more
incontrovertible	evidence	could	there	be	that	the	principle	of	equality	has
prevailed?	Yet	it	is	democrats	who	close	their	minds	and	eyes	to	this	spectacle!
Nominal	democrats,	no	doubt.	Sincere	democrats	would	have	applauded	this	Jew

--- Page 585 ---
who,	beginning	at	the	bottom	of	the	social	ladder,	has	arrived	by	virtue	of
equality	at	the	highest	rung.	Was	this	Jew	born	a	millionaire?	No,	he	was	born
poor,	and	if	only	you	knew	what	genius,	patience,	and	hard	work	were	required
to	construct	that	European	edifice	called	the	House	of	Rothschild,	you	would
admire	rather	than	insult	it	.	.	.	You	tactlessly	cite	Figaro,	without	understanding
that	Figaro	was	one	of	the	privileged	by	comparison	with	M.	de	Rothschild,
since	Figaro	had	only	to	be	born	in	order	to	see	before	him	the	vast	and	open
battlefield	of	labour.	At	his	birth,	M.	de	Rothschild	found	this	battlefield	closed
to	him	and	yet	he	has,	aided	by	freedom,	climbed	higher	than	you.	To	abuse	M.
de	Rothschild	is	to	blaspheme	against	equality.
Yet	such	reminders	of	the	Rothschilds’	origins	in	the	Judengasse	were	rare	in
the	1840s.	Only	in	England,	where	the	issue	of	the	parliamentary	representation
of	the	Jews	was	to	play	such	an	important	role	throughout	the	revolutionary
period,	did	it	really	seem	relevant.	The	continental	revolutionaries	did	not	think
of	the	Rothschilds	languishing	in	the	Judengasse,	but	imagined	them	luxuriating
in	châteaus	like	Suresnes	and	Grüneburg.	In	Joseph	Eichendorff	’s	allegorical
comedy	
Liberty	and	her	Liberators
,	for	example,	Amschel	is	once	again
satirised	in	the	character	of	Pinkus,	a	self-made	“cosmopolitan”	(misheard	by	a
page	as	
Großhofpolyp
)	who	acquires	the	title	of	baron	and	with	it	a	castle	and
garden.	Pinkus	cannot	abide	Nature,	preferring	to	impose	strict	uniformity
(complete	with	steam	engine)	on	the	garden;	whereas	Libertas	wishes	to	set	the
plants,	birds	and	animals	free.	When	she	tries	to	do	so,	Pinkus	has	her	arrested
by	his	“armed	forces”;	but	the	spirits	of	the	primeval	forest	come	to	her	rescue,
throwing	Pinkus’s	repressively	ordered	garden	into	chaos.
The	Rothschilds	were	far	from	oblivious	to	the	animosity	they	were	incurring.
Indeed,	it	might	be	said	that	they	took	positive	steps	to	counteract	it	by	making
generous—and	ostentatious—charitable	gestures.	In	the	very	dry	summer	of
1835,	Salomon	offered	25,000	gulden	towards	the	construction	of	an	aqueduct
from	the	
Danube	to	the	Vienna	suburbs.	When	Pesth	and	Ofen	were	badly
flooded	three	years	later,	he	hastened	to	offer	financial	assistance	for	the	victims.
He	donated	40,000	gulden	to	found	an	institute	for	scientific	research	in	Brünn.
And	when	Hamburg	was	ravaged	by	fire	in	1842	he	and	James	made	substantial
donations	to	the	fund	which	was	set	up	to	assist	the	victims.	Before	the	1830s	the
Rothschild	brothers’	charity	had	been	largely	confined	within	the	Jewish
communities	of	Frankfurt,	London	and	Paris.	Now	Salomon	made	a	point	of
contributing	to	causes	which	were	regarded	as	good	by	the	Habsburg	elite.	Baron
Kübeck	recorded	in	his	diary	how	the	elite	responded.	At	a	dinner	for	Count

--- Page 586 ---
Kolowrat	in	1838,	Salomon	declared	expansively	that	his	guest’s	presence	had:
“given	me	as	much	pleasure	today	as	if	I	had	been	given	a	thousand	gulden,	or
had	given	them	to	a	poor	man.”	Thereupon	Count	Kolowrat	replied,	“Very	well,
give	me	the	thousand	gulden	for	a	poor	man	who	needs	help,	and	has	applied	to
me.”	Rothschild	promised	to	do	so	and	after	dinner	Count	Kolowrat	was	given
the	thousand	gulden.
So	frequently	did	Salomon	act	in	this	way	that	it	was	possible	for	a
sentimental	novella	of	the	1850s	to	portray	him	as	a	kind	of	Viennese	Santa
Claus,	benignly	siding	with	a	carpenter’s	daughter	who	wants	to	marry	her	rich
father’s	gifted	but	poor	apprentice.	The	high	point	of	this	mawkish	work	is	a
description	of	the	throng	of	
Schnorrer
	in	the	antechamber	of	Salomon’s
Renngasse	residence:	the	man	who	claims	to	be	God’s	brother-in-law	(he	is	sent
packing);	the	man	who	wants	Salomon	to	be	the	godfather	to	his	child	(he	gets
50	gulden);	and	the	woman	whose	five-year-old	daughter	can	recite	seventy-two
poems	from	memory	(whose	reward	is	not	recorded).	That	they	are	all	drawn	to
the	house	of	Rothschild	is	explained	not	just	by	his	wealth,	but	by	his	universally
acknowledged	wisdom	and	generosity.	At	one	point,	genial	old	Rothschild	even
delivers	a	homily	to	a	young	Frankfurt	banker	on	the	need	for	those	who	are	rich
to	be	generous.
It	may	well	be	that	this	was	the	way	Salomon	wished	to	be	regarded.	But	not
everyone	who	came	into	contact	with	him	would	have	endorsed	this
characterisation.	Moritz	Goldschmidt’s	son	Hermann—a	boy	in	the	1840s—
remembered	him	as	an	impetuous,	impatient,	despot:	“a	brutal	egoist,	a	man
without	wisdom	or	education,	who	despised	those	around	him	and	took	the
opportunity	to	treat	them	ruthlessly	[just]	because	he	was	rich.”	He	ate	and	drank
to	excess.	He	was	habitually	rude	to	everyone	from	his	barber	to	the	Russian
ambassador	and	surrounded	himself	with	sycophants.	He	had	a	lecherous
passion	for	“very	young	girls,”	his	“adventures”	with	whom	had	to	be	hushed	up
by	the	police.	Above	all,	Salomon	was	extravagant.	He	habitually	dressed	in	a
blue	suit	with	gold	buttons	and	nankeen	or	white	stockings	and,	when	he	needed
a	new	suit	or	hat,	bought	twelve	at	a	time	for	good	measure.	He	drove	around
Vienna	in	a	luxurious	carriage	with	a	liveried	servant.	In	1847—in	the	depths	of
the	economic	slump—he	spent	immense	sums	building	a	new	residence	and
office	in	the	Renngasse.	To	be	sure,	Goldschmidt	was	looking	back	in	anger
when	he	wrote;	but	his	hostility	towards	Salomon	was	probably	not	so	different
from	that	felt	by	many	of	his	more	politically	radical	contemporaries.

--- Page 587 ---
The	Frankfurt	Rothschilds	too	sought	to	allay	popular	hostility	by	acts	of
public	benevolence.	In	May	1847	Amschel	distributed	bread	ration	cards	to	the
poor	of	Frankfurt	at	a	time	of	acute	food	shortages	in	the	town.	But,	although	he
received	“a	
unanimous	vote	of	thanks”	from	the	Frankfurt	Senate,	this	does	not
seem	to	have	done	much	to	enhance	his	popularity.	As	his	nephew	Anselm
observed	when	his	uncle	raised	the	possibility	of	buying	British	grain	for	the
German	market,	“We	must	be	very	careful	in	Germany	about	corn;	there	were	a
great	many	riots	all	&	everywhere	against	corn	dealers,	&	if	the	public	would
know	that	we	are	indirectly	interested	in	corn	transactions	there	might	be	a	burst
out	[
sic
]	against	us.”
Perhaps	the	most	successful	gesture	of	public-spiritedness	at	this	time	was
made	by	the	English	Rothschilds	in	response	to	the	catastrophic	potato	blight
and	famine	in	Ireland—the	worst	of	all	the	calamities	of	the	1840s,	which	cost
the	lives	of	around	775,000	people	and	drove	a	further	two	million	to	emigrate.
Ireland	was	not	a	land	with	which	the	Rothschilds	had	many	dealings;	yet	as
early	as	1821,	hearing	rumours	of	an	impending	famine	there,	Nathan	had
alerted	Lord	Liverpool	to	the	possibility	of	buying	“American	and	East	India
Rice	before	speculators	come	into	the	market,	the	price	of	which	is	at	present
low	and	the	Stock	large	and	which	in	case	of	a	deficiency	of	the	Potato	Crop
would	supply	the	numerous	Poor	of	that	Country	with	a	wholesome	food	during
the	Winter.”	When	Peel	used	the	Irish	famine	twenty-five	years	later	to	justify
repealing	the	Corn	Laws	(thus	freeing	the	import	of	grain	into	the	British	Isles,
but	also	bringing	down	his	own	government)	the	Rothschilds	were	ambivalent.
While	Alphonse	viewed	Peel’s	conversion	to	free	trade	“without	admiration”	as
an	“utter	revolution,”	his	father	“very	much	regretted”	Peel’s	fall—though
probably	more	for	the	diplomatic	implications	of	Palmerston’s	return	to	office.
Lionel,	by	contrast,	was	a	thorough-going	Free	Trader;	but	he	understood	that
free	trade	alone	would	not	alleviate	the	famine	in	Ireland,	because	of	the	general
European	cereal	deficit.	In	the	absence	of	a	more	than	half-hearted	official	relief
effort,	he	therefore	took	the	lead	in	setting	up	at	New	Court	the	British
Association	for	the	Relief	of	the	Extreme	Distress	in	the	Remote	Parishes	of
Ireland	and	Scotland,	which	raised	some	£470,000	in	the	course	of	its	existence
—even	soliciting	a	contribution	from	that	ardent	Hibernophobe	and	Protectionist
Disraeli!	The	Rothschilds	themselves	contributed	£1,000	to	the	fund,	the	second
biggest	donation	after	the	Queen’s	£2,000	and	on	a	par	with	the	Duke	of
Devonshire’s.	In	this	instance,	contemporaries	were	sincerely	impressed	by	the
Rothschild	effort.	As	he	declared	to	a	friend,	it	did	the	heart	of	the	future	Liberal

--- Page 588 ---
Irish	Secretary	W.	E.	Forster	“good”	to	see	“Rothschild,	Kinnaird,	and	some
dozen	other	millionaire	city	princes	meeting	every	day,	and	working	hard.	A	far
greater	sacrifice	to	them	than	mere	gifts	of	money.”	Lionel	personally	involved
himself	in	“regulat[ing]	the	purchase	and	shipment	of	provisions	to	Ireland	and
the	formation	of	depôts	around	the	coast	and	in	the	interior	of	the	country.”
Though	it	is	possible	that	this	activity	was	partly	designed	to	win	Catholic	votes
at	the	1847	election	(in	which	he	was	a	Liberal	candidate),	his	mother’s	letters
on	the	subject	testify	to	the	sincerity	of	the	family’s	response	to	the	Irish	disaster.
The	contrast	with	the	Paris	house’s	role	is	striking.	The	French	food	crisis
was,	of	course,	far	from	being	as	disastrous	as	the	Irish:	as	Nat	wrote	in	1847,
“They	talk	terribly	of	the	misery	of	the	poor	devils	in	the	provinces	but	I	don’t
believe	it	approaches	that	of	Ireland—it	cannot	be	compared	to	it.”	Nevertheless,
the	1846	wheat	harvest	was	an	exceptionally	bad	one:	15	per	cent	lower	than	the
average	of	the	previous	ten	years,	it	was	the	worst	since	1831.	James	first	began
purchasing	
grain	as	early	as	January	1846	in	anticipation	of	a	bad	harvest
throughout	Europe.	A	year	later	he	was	urging	the	French	government	to	make
purchases	of	Russian	grain,	and	in	the	spring	of	1847	he	offered	“to	buy	abroad
5	millions	of	francs	worth	of	corn	and	flour	for	the	consumption	of	Paris	at	our
risks	&	peril	and	in	the	event	of	any	loss	accruing	we	s[houl]d	bear	it	&	the
profit	to	be	distributed	in	bread	tickets	to	the	poor.”	Besides	being	philanthropic,
James	genuinely	feared	the	social	and	political	consequences	of	food	shortages:
as	he	told	his	nephews	in	November	1846,	“[T]he	situation	with	our	grain,	which
really	isn’t	good,	does	scare	me	a	lot.”	For	this	reason,	there	is	no	doubt	that	he
wished	to	be	seen	to	be	alleviating	distress—Salomon	wrote	explicitly	of
“making	our	name	popular”	with	“the	masses”	by	providing	cheap	bread	and
salt.
Yet	James	had	meant	the	grain	purchases	only	to	be	non-profit-making;	he	had
not	intended	to	lose	money	outright.	His	assumption	in	early	1847,	for	example,
was	that	prices	would	remain	high;	and	when	the	improved	harvest	that	year
partly	confounded	that	expectation	he	and	Nat	could	not	conceal	their
annoyance.	“There	never	was	anything	so	stupidly	managed	as	this	corn
operation,”	grumbled	Nat:	“to	buy	up	all	the	corn	in	the	world	&	to	get	it	just	as
the	harvest	is	coming	on,	we	shall	lose	a	great	deal	of	money	&	in	future	we
shall	be	more	careful.”	This	may	partly	explain	why	James	received	little	if	any
credit	from	ordinary	consumers	in	Paris.	As	Nat	had	predicted,	“I	fancy	the
philanthropic	feelings	of	our	good	Uncle	will	cost	a	little	money.	If	people	don’t
attribute	a	wrong	motive	it	will	be	all	very	well	&	charitable,	but	in	Paris	where

--- Page 589 ---
nobody	can	imagine	anything	done	disinterestedly	I	should	not	be	surprised	if	it
were	said	we	do	it	for	the	sake	of	getting	rid	of	what	we	have	got	at	very	high
prices.”	Violence	of	the	sort	which	broke	out	in	the	faubourg	Saint-Antoine	in
May	1847	was	partly	directed	against	grain	merchants;	James	was	widely
perceived	to	have	acted	as	little	more.	Indeed,	it	was	rumoured	that	Rothschild
bread	was	laced	with	ground	glass	and	arsenic.	Here	perhaps	was	the	origin	of
Heine’s	imagined	Rothschild	nightmare:	“He	dreams	he	gives	100,000	francs	to
the	poor	and	becomes	ill	as	a	result.”
What	made	the	agrarian	crisis	doubly	worrying	for	the	Rothschilds	was	its
impact	on	the	European	banking	system.	All	countries	which	found	themselves
obliged	to	import	grain	from	relatively	remote	markets	like	Russia	and	America
experienced	a	drain	of	gold	and	silver	which	had	a	direct	impact	on	their
monetary	systems.	The	most	dramatic	case	was	that	of	Britain.	The	effect	of	the
shift	to	free	trade	was	to	increase	immensely	the	import	of	corn	to	Britain,	from
251,000	tonnes	in	1843	to	1,749,000	tonnes	in	1847.	The	success	of	Peel’s
policy	was	thus	not	in	reducing	the	price	of	bread,	but	in	averting	what	would
have	been	a	very	substantial	price	increase	if	the	Corn	Laws	had	remained	in
force.	But	the	policy	had	an	unexpected	side-effect	on	one	of	Peel’s	other	great
legislative	achievements,	for	it	forced	the	suspension	of	the	Bank	Charter	Act	of
1844.	It	did	this	because	the	act	had	reinforced	the	link	between	the	Bank	of
England’s	gold	reserve	and	the	British	money	supply.	As	corn	imports	flooded	in
and	gold	flooded	out,	so	the	reserve	dwindled:	from	£15.8	million	in	1844	to
£9.8	million	four	years	later.	The	Bank	was	obliged	to	increase	its	interest	rates
in	steps	from	2.5	per	cent	(March	1845)	to	a	peak	of	10	per	cent	(October	1847),
thus	causing	a	drastic	monetary	squeeze	and	finally	forcing	suspension.	No	other
European	economy	permitted	such	a	large	outflow	of	specie;	but	Britain’s
financial	dominance	of	the	continent	at	this	period	ensured	that	the	
contraction
was	felt	everywhere.	Only	the	grain	exporters	were	spared,	which	partly
accounts	for	the	very	different	Russian	experience	in	this	period.
First	to	suffer	was	Frankfurt.	As	early	as	April	1846	Anselm	reported:	“The
volume	of	business	in	Frankfurt	is	more	and	more	shrinking,	without	a
downpour	of	gold	from	heaven,	I	do	not	know	how	this	place	can	recover”—a
verdict	echoed	by	James	when	he	visited	in	July.	Soon	came	the	inevitable
casualties,	this	time	uncomfortably	close	to	home.	In	1847	the	house	of	Haber
collapsed,	threatening	to	take	with	it	the	Beyfus	brothers’	bank.	As	two	of	Mayer
Amschel’s	daughters	(Babette	and	Julie)	had	been	married	to	the	Beyfuses,	it
was	felt	necessary	to	bail	them	out—to	the	tune	of	1.5	million	gulden—though

--- Page 590 ---
this	was	done	with	extremely	bad	grace.	The	younger	generation	in	London	and
Paris	had	little	time	for	“old	Mad	Beyfus.”	“If	we	are	to	pay	because	they	chose
to	swindle,”	complained	Nat,	“the	Lord	knows	to	what	interest	they	may	draw
upon	our	cash	box	.	.	.	the	only	regret	I	experience	is	that	our	worthy	relatives
have	thought	it	fit	to	come	to	their	assistance.”	In	fact,	it	seems	to	have	been
James	who	insisted	on	rescuing	“so	near	a	relation,”	despite	the	grumblings	of
Amschel,	Salomon	and	Carl—a	good	illustration	of	his	ultimate	leadership	on
familial	matters	at	this	time.	Yet	the	fall	of	the	Habers—to	whom	the	Beyfuses
were	also	related	by	marriage—attracted	much	more	attention	than	the	survival
of	the	Beyfuses.	Once	again,	there	were	articles	in	the	press	“attributing	to	us	the
ruin	of	.	.	.	German	industry.”	“These	attacks	were	so	violent,”	wrote	Anselm,
“that	we	found	ourselves	compelled	to	answer	these	libels	by	a	declaration
signed	by	us	and	inserted	in	the	principal	papers	of	Germany.”	In	the	Bade	nese
parliament,	a	liberal	deputy	denounced	the	Rothschilds	in	terms	which,	Anselm
reported,	“aimed	at	nothing	less	than	mobilising	the	masses	in	a	religious
crusade	against	our	House,	representing	it	as	a	vile	monetary	power	.	.	.	sitting
[on]	.	.	.	all	the	kings,	all	the	peoples.”	It	was	even	alleged	that	Lionel	had	agreed
to	bankrupt	South	German	industry	in	return	for	a	promise	from	Palmerston	of	a
seat	in	the	House	of	Commons.
Banking	crises	have	a	domino	effect:	the	problems	of	Haber	served	to
exacerbate	the	difficulties	of	one	of	the	major	Vienna	banks,	Arnstein	&	Eskeles.
Trouble	had	been	brewing	in	the	Vienna	market	since	early	1847,	prompting
Metternich	to	request	Salomon	to	return	urgently	from	Paris	“to	contrive	some
plan	which	would	ward	off	the	crisis	of	the	market.”	By	the	end	of	September	it
seemed	that	he	had	succeeded	in	“averting”	an	“immeasurable	calamity.”
However,	the	failure	of	Haber	proved	to	have	potentially	disastrous	implications
for	Eskeles,	whom	he	owed	1	million	gulden.	It	may	be	that	Salomon	was
already	heavily	committed	to	Eskeles,	with	whom	he	had	acted	in	close
partnership	for	many	years	in	issuing	Austrian	government	bonds.	Alternatively,
he	felt	morally	bound	to	intercede	on	his	behalf.	At	any	event,	he	informed	the
Frankfurt	house	on	December	23	that	Eskeles	had
visited	me	a	few	hours	ago	and	most	frankly	informed	me	that	at	present	he	does
not	need	anything,	however	as	soon	as	he	does,	he	is	in	a	position	to	transmit
mortgages	as	a	security	to	the	full	amount.	I	have	in	my	portfolio	1,520,000
gulden	drafts	upon	Eskeles	of	which	1,185,000	gulden	are	of	Haber,	the
remaining	with	good	endorsements.

--- Page 591 ---
In	effect,	he	and	Sina	had	agreed	to	bail	Eskeles	out,	just	as	Salomon	had	wanted
to	rescue	Geymüller	six	years	previously.	This	time,	however,	Salomon	had
acted	without	consulting	his	brothers	(remembering	perhaps	their	refusal	to
agree	to	the	Geymüller	rescue).	Naturally,	he	hastened	to	reassure	them	that
there	was	no	risk	involved	and	that	Sina	was	“caution	itself.”	He	urged	Anselm
to	remain	“calm”:	“With	God’s	help	we	shall	remain	the	Rothschilds.”	If	his
brothers—and	son—suspected	that	a	grave	mistake	had	been	made,	Salomon
had	no	inkling.	The	full	gravity	of	his	error	would	become	apparent	within	the
month.
In	Paris,	the	Banque	de	France	faced	a	“crisis	in	the	supply	of	money”	(James)
from	as	early	as	October	1846.	On	previous	occasions	(in	1825	and	1836-9),	it
had	been	the	Banque	which	had	come	to	the	assistance	of	the	Bank	of	England;
now	the	Bank	repaid	the	debt	by	selling	its	counterpart	silver	worth	25	million
francs.	As	in	the	1830s,	Rothschild	attempts	to	play	a	part	in	this	transaction
were	abortive:	although	James	made	a	personal	visit	to	London	in	December,	the
business	was	finally	arranged	by	Hottinguer,	and	James’s	subsequent	offer	of	an
additional	5	million	francs	was	rejected	by	the	Banque	Governor	d’Argout.	The
bad	blood	between	New	Court	and	Threadneedle	Street	since	Nathan’s	death	had
yet	to	be	purged.
Nor	was	Lionel	successful	in	his	attempts	to	mediate	between	St	Petersburg—
rich	in	bullion	from	Russian	grain	exports—and	the	Banque	de	France.
Benjamin	Davidson	was	packed	off	via	Riga	to	the	Russian	capital	with	several
carriages	filled	with	gold,	apparently	with	the	intention	of	establishing	a	new
agency.	But	his	expedition	was	a	failure.	Having	endured	a	gruelling	journey	on
snow-covered	Russian	roads,	Davidson	found	himself	effectively	unable	to	do
business	as	a	foreign	Jew.	When	the	Russian	government	came	to	the	Banque	de
France’s	rescue	by	buying	50	million	francs	of	rentes	from	its	securities	reserve,
the	Rothschilds	were	mere	onlookers.	In	fact,	the	1846-8	crisis	proved	a
remarkably	good	opportunity	for	the	Banque	to	enhance	its	power	over	the
French	monetary	system:	it	was	not	sorry	to	see	the	collapse	of	Laffitte’s
ambitious	Caisse	Générale,	nor	that	of	the	various	regional	banks	of	issue
Laffitte	had	encouraged	in	his	time	as	Banque	Governor.	Nat	summed	up
Rothschild	feelings	towards	the	Banque	at	this	time	succinctly:	“They	are	a	set
of	shits	&	behave	to	us	as	badly	as	possible,	but	it	is	not	[in]	our	interest	to
quarrel	with	them.”
The	position	was	not	very	different	in	London.	As	James	put	it	in	April	1847,
with	Bank	rate	climbing	inexorably	upwards,	“Your	Bank	is	the	Master	and

--- Page 592 ---
driver	of	the	situation.	It	is	in	a	position	to	press	its	will	on	the	world	and	so	gold
will	have	to	be	sent	back.”	Yet	the	Chancellor	of	the	Exchequer,	Sir	Charles
Wood,	was	less	confident	that	the	Bank	would	be	able	to	master	the	crisis
without	breaching	its	legal	gold	reserve	requirement.	He	and	the	Prime	Minister
were	singularly	unimpressed	when	they	sought	Lionel’s	views	on	the	matter.	As
Wood	told	his	confidant,	Samuel	Jones	Lloyd,	“I	saw	at	Lord	John	[Russell]’s,
Lionel	Rothschild	&	[Joshua]	Bates	[of	Barings]	this	morning	&	(low	be	it
spoken)	I	am	utterly	confounded	at	the	ignorance	they	displayed,	of	facts	&
circumstances	which	I	should	have	thought	every	merchant	in	the	City	must
have	known.	They	really	had	little	or	nothing	to	say	for	themselves,	&	admitted
that	things	were	proceeding	rapidly.”	If	Nat’s	views	give	any	indication	of	what
Lionel	said,	the	Rothschild	position	perhaps	struck	Wood	as	politically	naive.
The	Bank’s	policy,	he	wrote,	was	“illiberal—I	must	say	I	can	not	understand
their	policy,	they	do	all	in	their	power	to	stop	trade	&	the	country	will	
pay	very
dear	indeed	for	their	gold.”	Wood	knew	that;	what	he	wanted	to	know	was	how
to	suspend	the	1844	rules	without	acquiring	the	reputation	of	a	Vansittart.	When
he	turned	for	advice	(and	whitewash)	to	the	architect	of	the	Bank	Charter	Act
himself,	Peel	agreed	that	Lionel	was	not	among	“those	who	really	understood
the	question	of	currency,	whose	prepossessions	were	in	favour	of	the	principles
on	which	the	Bank	act	was	founded—and	in	favour	of	the	Bank	act	itself.”	It
was,	Peel	told	him,	not	“Rothschild,	Masterman,	Glyn	and	the	leading	men	of
the	City—but	.	.	.	those	with	whom	he	had	conferred	in	private	[who]	were	the
very	persons	.	.	.	deserving	of	his	confidence	in	the	matter,	Jones	Lloyd,	W.
Cotton,	Norman	and	the	Governor	of	the	Bank.”	This	bipartisan	depreciation	of
Lionel’s	expertise	testifies	to	the	Rothschilds’	loss	of	influence	over	monetary
policy	since	Nathan’s	death.
Deflationary	monetary	policies	had	direct	effects	on	European	industry.	For
the	Rothschilds,	it	was	their	impact	on	the	French	railway	companies	which	was
most	troublesome.	It	was	not	that	railway	investment	and	construction	ceased:	to
the	extent	that	these	were	pre-programmed	by	political	and	commercial
decisions	taken	before	the	crisis,	the	problem	was	more	that	they	were	difficult
to	stop.
1
	The	strain	was	therefore	taken	by	the	railway	companies’	bankers	and
investors:	as	work	proceeded,	the	banks	found	themselves	being	asked	for	loans
to	finance	the	inevitable	cost	overruns,	while	investors	could	only	watch
gloomily	as	the	monetary	squeeze	drove	down	railway	share	prices.	In	truth,
James	had	been	over-optimistic,	just	as	his	English	nephews	had	feared.	On	the
very	eve	of	the	crisis,	he	and	his	son	had	confidently	assured	their	relatives	that,

--- Page 593 ---
in	addition	to	their	economic	benefits,	the	railways	tended	to	make	people
politically	“conservative	and	pro-government”	too.	“Every	thing	is	calm	in
France,”	Alphonse	told	Mayer	Carl	in	January	1846,	“there	is	a	strong	majority
for	the	administration.	Industrialism	and	the	railroads	absorb	all	thoughts	and
divert	from	politics.	Please	God	that	we	may	enjoy	for	many	years	to	come	the
blissful	peace.”	Within	a	matter	of	months	they	were	singing	a	different	tune.
“Well,”	James	confided	in	Anselm	that	August,	“I	must	admit	that	when	I	think
about	the	many	commitments	that	the	world	has	taken	upon	itself	for	the
payments	to	be	made	everywhere	for	the	railways,	money	which	will	not	so
quickly	return	into	the	hands	of	the	business	people,	then	I	find	myself
trembling.”	By	October,	he	was	having	to	reschedule	payments	due	to	the
government	for	the	Nord	concession	and	to	intervene	to	prop	up	the	share	price.
While	Nat	savoured	his	own	vindication,	James’s	response	to	the	crisis	was	to
concentrate	Rothschild	attention	on	the	Nord	and	extricate	himself	from	the
other	lines	in	which	he	had	a	smaller	interest.	“If,”	he	told	his	nephews,	“we
can’t	assume	that	when	the	railways	draw	monies	from	us	we	will	then	be	able	to
get	it	back	again,	then	I	view	the	situation	as	being	potentially	very	dangerous.”
Accordingly,	when	“that	blackguard	fellow	Talabot”	requested	additional	funds
for	work	on	the	Avi	gnon-Marseille	line,	he	was	roundly	rebuffed.	Shares	in
other	companies	were	also	sold	off.	Nor	did	James	commit	more	money	of	his
own	to	the	Nord:	when	the	company	required	new	funds	for	construction,	he
appealed	directly	to	shareholders.	Like	so	many	malcontents	in	1847,	the
Rothschilds	themselves	blamed	the	government	for	their	problems.	“The	gov.
must	change	their	manners	of	doing	business,”	complained	Anthony,	“they	have
completely	ruined	their	credit	by	the	manner	that	they	have	behaved	to	the
Railroad	Companies.	You	can	have	no	idea	
how	every	person	cries	out	about
losing	their	money	&	they	all	attribute	it	to	the	gov.	&	certainly	they	are	very
much	to	blame.”	Of	such	grievances,	multiplied	a	thousand-fold,	are	revolutions
made.
The	paradox	was	that	even	as	they	grew	more	and	more	disgruntled	with	the
European	governments’	economic	policies,	the	Rothschilds	continued—as	if
reflexively—to	act	as	their	lender	of	first	resort.	The	transmission	mechanism
which	linked	the	economic	crisis	of	1847	to	the	political	crisis	the	following	year
was	fiscal.	All	over	Europe,	the	combination	of	rising	expenditures	(first	on
railways,	then	on	social	palliatives,	finally	on	counter-revolutionary	measures)
and	falling	revenues	(as	earnings	and	consumption	slumped)	led	inevitably	to
government	deficits.	Between	1842	and	1847,	for	example,	the	Austrian	budget

--- Page 594 ---
rose	by	30	per	cent.	So	deeply	ingrained	was	his	habit	of	lending	to	the
government	that,	when	he	was	approached	for	a	new	loan	of	80	million	gulden
in	February	1847,	Salomon	“thanked	God”	for	“an	extremely	good	business.”	It
was	to	prove	anything	but	that.	Along	with	Sina	and	the	ailing	Eskeles,	he	had
taken	on	2.5	and	5	per	cent	bonds	worth	80	million	gulden	(nominal),	in	return
for	which	the	bankers	had	to	pay	the	government	84	million	in	cash	in
instalments	spread	over	five	years.	This	would	have	been	a	good	business	only	if
five	years	of	peace	and	prosperity	had	been	at	least	probable.
Ostensibly,	this	loan	was	needed	to	finance	new	railways:	that	was	what
Salomon	told	Gasser	when	he	tried	to	sell	“a	considerable	sum”	of	the	new
bonds	to	the	cash-rich	Tsar.	By	November	1847,	however,	Austria	was	arming	in
preparation	for	intervention	in	Lombardy	and	Venetia,	where	insurrection
seemed	imminent.	Salomon	knew	this	because	Metternich	had	told	him,	yet
instead	of	being	alarmed,	he	went	so	far	as	to	offer	more	financial	assistance.
Incredibly,	he	agreed	to	lend	a	further	3.7	million	gulden	in	return	for	4	per	cent
bonds,	which	he	furthermore	pledged	not	to	sell	on	the	already	stretched	market:
they	would,	he	promised	Kübeck,	remain	“in	his	own	safe,”	in	return	for	interest
of	4.6	per	cent.	With	short-term	rates	in	London	at	this	time	standing	at	5.85	per
cent	and	the	price	of	5	per	cent	metalliques	already	ten	points	lower	than	they
had	been	three	years	before,	this	was	an	extraordinary	(not	to	say	suicidal)
decision.	Even	as	Salomon’s	proposal	was	being	discussed,	Kübeck	was	warning
that	intervention	in	Italy	would	lead	to	“the	complete	breakdown	of	our
finances.”	“We	are	on	the	verge	of	an	abyss,”	he	told	Metternich	presciently,
“and	the	increasing	demands	on	the	Treasury	arising	out	of	the	measures
necessary	to	combat	foreign	revolutionary	elements	have	led	to	increased
disturbances	within	the	country,	as	is	indicated	by	the	attitude	of	the	provincial
Estates,	and	by	the	literary	outbursts	in	the	Press	of	our	neighbours.”	Metternich
was	undaunted.	When	Salomon	began	to	get	cold	feet	in	January,	he	angrily	told
him:	“Politically,	things	are	all	right;	the	exchange	is	not.	I	do	my	duty	but	you
do	not	do	yours.”
As	with	his	advance	to	Eskeles,	Salomon’s	undertakings	to	the	government
were	made	without	reference	to	the	other	Rothschild	houses.	“We	have	very
curious	letters	from	Vienna,”	Nat	wrote	to	New	Court	at	around	the	same	time.
“Our	good	Uncle	is	full	of	Austrian	Metallics	2[.5]%	&	5%	&	how	he	will	get
out	on	such	markets	the	Lord	knows—Prince	Metternich	takes	our	good	Uncle
in	so	that	he	may	continue	his	financial	operations,	I	fancy	the	F’furt	house	will
find	a	little	difference	in	their	balance	the	next	time	they	make	it	up.”	This	was

--- Page 595 ---
to	prove	a	serious	understatement.	When	the	first	efforts	were	made	to	compute
Salomon’s	commitments	in	
February	1848,	the	total	approached	4.35	million
gulden	(around	£610,000).	That	was	more	than	double	the	capital	of	the	Vienna
house	in	1844.	Notionally,	as	Nat	suggested,	the	Frankfurt	house	remained
responsible	for	its	Vienna	branch;	but	it	too	had	been	accumulating	the	bonds	of
other	German	governments	in	the	course	of	the	1840s,	notably	those	of
Württemberg	and	Hanover,	and	there	was	talk	of	a	new	loan	to	Prussia	as	late	as
March	1848!	When	Anselm	finally	arrived	from	Frankfurt	to	set	the	Vienna
house	in	order,	he	was	in	no	mood	for	filial	generosity.	His	relationship	with	his
father	was	to	be	one	of	the	first	Rothschild	casualties	of	1848.
French	spending	had	also	been	rising	steadily.	By	1847	the	budget	was	55	per
cent	higher	than	it	had	been	twelve	years	before,	not	least	because	of	the	various
state	subsidies	to	the	railway	companies.	As	early	as	the	autumn	of	1846	there
was	talk	of	a	loan	to	fund	the	government’s	deficit;	by	the	summer	of	the
following	year	the	difficulty	of	placing	treasury	bills	on	the	struggling	money
market	made	such	a	new	issue	of	rentes	imperative.	Needless	to	say,	the
Rothschilds	had	no	intention	of	leaving	the	business	to	others,	despite	the
periodic	anxieties	of	James’s	nephews	about	French	financial	stability.	As	in
Vienna,	so	in	Paris:	government	loans	had	become	a	matter	of	course,	regardless
of	economic	conditions.	True,	James	drove	what	seemed	to	be	a	hard	bargain.
The	terms	he	secured	looked	generous:	of	the	350	million	francs	nominal	to	be
raised,	the	Rothschilds	took	250	million	in	the	form	of	3	per	cent	rentes	priced	at
just	75.25,	some	two	points	below	the	market	price.	Indeed,	his	rivals	could	with
justice	have	complained	of	double-dealing.	It	seems	likely	that	the	auction	of	the
new	rentes	was	rigged	by	the	Finance	Minister	so	that	James’s	bid	was	exactly
equal	to	the	Minister’s	supposedly	secret	minimum.	As	Nat	candidly	told	his
brothers	beforehand,	Dumon	had	“let	the	cat	out	of	the	bag”:	“[He]	said	he	could
not	commmunicate	his	minimum	as	it	was	necessary	for	him	to	be	able	to	state
in	the	Chamber	that	his	sealed	letter	had	remained	a	secret	for	every	body,	but	
on
pourrait	se	mettre	à	peu	près	d’accord
.”
Yet	Nat	was	fundamentally	right	to	regard	the	loan	as	“a	most	dangerous	&
disagreeable	concern.”	James	was	less	rash	than	Salomon,	but	he	did	not	follow
his	bearish	nephews’	chorus	of	advice	to	“get	out	of	our	loan	famously.”	Some	of
it	was	sold	to	investors	ranging	from	the	Tsar	to	Heinrich	Heine.	But	not	all	of	it.
According	to	a	number	of	accounts,	he	decided	to	sell	only	a	third	at	once	to	the
market,	holding	on	to	the	remaining	170	million	francs	in	the	expectation	that
the	price	of	3	per	cents	would	rise	above	77.	Meanwhile,	of	course,	James	had

--- Page 596 ---
bound	himself	to	pay	the	Treasury	250	million	francs	in	instalments	spread	over
two	years.	It	was	to	prove	another	expensive	miscalculation.
In	England	too	there	was	an	ill-judged	loan	on	the	eve	of	the	storm.	The	£8
million	so-called	Irish	Famine	Loan	of	March	1847	was	raised	ostensibly	to
finance	the	cost	of	aid	to	Ireland,	though	it	may	reasonably	be	assumed	that	there
were	other	reasons	for	the	government’s	deficit	in	this	period.	The	combination
of	Britain’s	unique	credit-rating	and	the	good	cause	supposedly	being	funded
boded	well,	and	Rothschilds	and	Barings—who	shared	the	underwriting	equally
—had	no	difficulty	in	finding	buyers.	Indeed,	James	himself	complained	about
being	given	only	£250,000.	Yet	the	price	quickly	fell	from	the	issue	price	of	89.5
to	85,	much	to	the	consternation	of	the	investing	public	and	the	embarrassment
of	the	underwriters.
Even	in	Italy,	where	the	revolution	may	be	said	to	have	begun,	the	Rothschilds
toyed	with	the	possibility	of	state	loans	in	1846-7.	In	Naples,	Carl	appears	to
have	been	keen	to	agree	a	loan	to	the	government,	and	was	saved	from	doing	so
only	by	the	Bourbon	regime’s	own	chronic	indecisiveness.	In	Rome	too	there
was	talk	of	a	loan.	After	the	advances	which	had	been	made	on	the	basis	of
Rothschild	loans	in	the	1830s,	the	finances	of	the	Papacy	were	once	again	in
disarray:	the	deficit	for	1847	was	double	that	of	the	previous	year	and	Roman	5
per	cents	dropped	below	par	for	the	first	time	since	1834.	Yet	James	had	been
intrigued	by	the	election	of	Pius	IX	in	1846—“supposedly	a	liberal,”	as	he	rather
acutely	put	it—and	he	ordered	a	halt	to	sales	of	Roman	bonds	in	the	expectation
of	“some	really	positive	changes.”	This	probably	referred	to	the	position	of	the
Jewish	community	in	Rome,	whose	case	for	better	treatment	Salomon	once
again	took	up.	Only	a	stark	warning	from	their	new	Italian	agent	Hecht	“who
represents	the	state	of	the	Papal	domains	in	the	blackest	colours	&	thinks	that	a
revolution	is	at	the	eve	to	break	out	[
sic
]”	deterred	the	Rothschilds	from	taking
up	Torlonia’s	proposal	of	a	new	loan.	When	Adolph	visited	the	Holy	City	in
January	1848,	he	was	unnerved	by	the	combination	of	political	debate	and
military	preparation	he	encountered.	For	the	same	reason,	the	London	house’s
amazingly	ill-timed	suggestion	of	a	loan	to	Piedmont—in	January	1848!—was
thrown	out	by	Alphonse,	who	pointed	out	gently	that	this	was	“a	country	which
can	be	considered	as	.	.	.	already	in	full	revolution.”	The	only	other	country
whose	request	for	a	loan	was	turned	down	at	this	time	was	Belgium—ironically,
one	of	the	countries	least	affected	by	the	revolutionary	upheavals	which	were
about	to	begin.
	

--- Page 597 ---
“The	Worst	Revolution	That	Ever	Happened”
To	say	that	the	1848	revolutions	began	in	Italy	is	perhaps	not	strictly	true:	civil
wars	in	Galicia	and	in	Switzerland	were	harbingers	of	the	cataclysm,	as	were	the
abortive	United	Diet	(Landtag)	summoned—in	conformity	with	the	1819	State
Debt	Decree—by	Frederick	William	IV	in	Berlin	in	1847,	and	the	stirrings	of
liberal	enthusiasm	in	South	Germany.	But,	though	they	followed	these	events
carefully,	the	Rothschilds	were	not	worried	by	them.	Indeed,	the	annexation	of
Cracow	by	Austria	looked	like	just	another	Polish	partition:	as	on	previous
occasions,	“the	poor	Poles”	were	“very	much	to	be	pitied.”	“I	suppose	lots	of
them	will	be	shot,”	remarked	Nat	dispassionately;	his	uncle	Salomon’s	sole
concern	was	that	foreign	governments	should	not	challenge	the	Austrian	move.
It	was	the	outbreak	of	an	artisans’	revolt	in	Sicily	in	January	1848	and	the
granting	of	a	liberal	constitution	by	Ferdinand	II	which	made	the	Rothschilds	for
the	first	time	afraid.	It	was,	commented	Nat,	“stinking	news”	(which	the
Rothschilds	were,	as	usual,	the	first	to	hear).
Yet	he	and	the	rest	of	the	family	continued	to	think	primarily	in	diplomatic
terms,	wondering	whether	the	Neapolitan	crisis	would	harden	the	Austrian
resolve	to	intervene	(something	Salomon	anxiously	denied).	In	his	letters	to
Lionel	and	Alphonse,	Anselm	joked	about	Adolph’s	hand	shaking	as	he	wrote
his	letters,	suggesting	that	he	shared	his	father’s	nervous,	not	to	say
pusillanimous	temper.	But	this	was	just	banter.	Carl’s	initial	reaction	in	fact
suggests	sang-froid:	as	early	as	February	19	he	was	once	again	discussing	the
possibility	of	a	loan	to	the	Bourbon	regime.	When	Anselm	commented	on	liberal
attacks	on	Ludwig	I’s	government	in	Munich,	he	little	realised	how	soon	his
diagnosis	would	apply	to	all	Europe:	
“That	is	the	way	it	is,	alas:	in	the	highest
politics	just	as	in	the	most	lowly	social	relations,	the	people	imposes	its	will	and
dictates	the	law	to	the	higher	power.”	He	could	still	hope	that	“the	unrest	there”
would	“soon	pass”—and	with	it	the	slump	in	the	price	of	the	Rothschilds’	“low
loans.”
As	in	1830,	it	was	the	outbreak	of	revolution	in	France	which	turned	disquiet
into	panic.	Of	course,	the	Rothschilds	had	never	had	unqualified	confidence	in
the	July	Monarchy.	The	death	of	Louis	Philippe’s	eldest	son	in	1842	had
reinforced	their	pessimism	about	the	future:	the	King	himself	confided	“that
after	his	death	.	.	.	the	Revolution	of	1830	would	begin	again.”	“I	assure	you	it
has	given	me	the	stomach	ache,”	commented	Anthony	uneasily.	“I	do	not	think
that	there	is	any	danger	as	long	as	the	present	King	lives—but	what	will	take
place	after	his	death	God	knows	&	I	hope	to	God	that	the	good	old	gentleman

--- Page 598 ---
will	live	for	a	mighty	time	and	that	everything	will	go	on	well—nevertheless	we
must	be	prudent.”	This	explains	the	Rothschilds’	fear	of	a	successful
assassination	attempt	against	the	King.	When	James	himself	received	a	death
threat	in	1846,	he	passed	the	letter	on	to	the	government,	remarking:	“The	man
who	wants	to	shoot	at	me	could	just	as	well	shoot	at	the	King,	or	vice	versa.”
When	Louis	Philippe	survived	yet	another	attempt	on	his	life	the	following
April,	Nat	pronounced	him	“one	of	the	most	admirable	men	that	ever	existed.”
The	growing	extra-parliamentary	pressure	for	electoral	reform	in	the	course	of
1847,	however,	raised	the	possibility	that	1830	might	repeat	itself	even	with
Louis	Philippe	still	living.	Nat’s	reports	from	Paris	in	January	and	February	1848
show	that	he	saw	the	crisis	coming:	“[G]ood	folks	speak	exactly	as	they	did	just
before	the	revolution	of	1830,”	he	remarked	on	February	20,	two	days	before	the
fateful	Reform	banquet	was	scheduled	to	take	place,	in	defiance	of	a	government
ban.
I	think	a	change	of	ministry	wd.	remedy	the	evil	but	in	the	mean	time	it	is
impossible	to	say	what	will	occur—no	one	can	tell	how	a	french	mob	will
behave	&	when	the	[president?]	of	the	chamber	of	deputies	associates	with	the
common	people	it	is	a	hazardous	thing	to	say	how	far	they	will	go	and	when	they
will	remain	quiet—We	must	hope	for	the	best,	in	the	mean	time	my	dear
Brothers,	I	really	recommend	you	most	strongly	to	sell	stocks	&	public	securities
of	all	sorts	and	descriptions.
Yet	the	very	next	day	he	was	more	optimistic:
The	nasty	banquet	continues	exciting	the	public	.	.	.	It	is	really	very	much	the
same	sort	of	thing	as	in	1830	&	nevertheless	I	can	not	help	thinking	it	will	all
blow	over	and	leave	us	[far?]	behind.—This	country	is	so	well	off	and	in	general
people	are	so	greatly	interested	in	the	maintenance	of	things	that	I	believe	a
revolutionary	movement	[to	be]	out	of	the	question	.	.	.	The	end	will	be	a	change
of	ministry	&	Guizot	will	in	all	probability	go	out	on	the	Parliamentary	reform
question.—I	shall	be	very	glad	when	that	takes	place,	it	wd.	make	our	rentes	get
up	and	set	matters	right	again.
“I	have	however	no	doubt	that	as	soon	as	the	affair	of	the	banquet	is	over	we
shall	see	a	great	improvement,”	he	added	in	another	letter.	“All	our	friends
assure	us	there	is	no	need	of	anxiety	on	acct.	of	any	revolutionary	demonstration
on	the	part	of	the	dep[utie]s	of	the	Gauche—in	my	opinion	their	banquet	will	be
a	complete	failure.”	“People	have	much	too	great	an	interest	at	stake	in	the

--- Page 599 ---
maintenance	of	order	to	kick	up	rows,”	he	concluded	in	his	final	despatch	before
the	date	set	for	the	banquet,	“&	I	don’t	think	that	emeutes	will	be	again	à	l’ordre
du	jour	at	least	p[ou]r	le	moment—”	The	temperamental	pessimist	had	picked
the	worst	possible	moment	to	look	on	the	bright	side.
Even	in	his	letter	of	February	23,	with	barricades	in	the	street	and	signs	of
mutiny	in	the	National	Guard,	Nat	still	underestimated	the	gravity	of	the
situation,	hoping	nervously	that	a	change	of	ministry	would	suffice	to	dampen
unrest:
The	ministry	has	changed,	Guizot	has	just	declared	in	the	chamber	of	Depts.	that
he	had	sent	in	his	resignation	to	the	king	and	his	majesty	was	at	the	present
moment	closeted	with	Molé—We	must	hope	that	between	them	they	will	cook
up	a	good	government	but	it	is	a	dangerous	experiment	to	yield	to	the	wishes	of
a	factious	minority	and	of	a	turbulent	set	of	national	guards—The	great	fault	was
in	not	sending	off	Guizot	sooner,	the	people	had	got	up	the	reform	cry	and	it	is
impossible	to	resist	public	opinion	any	where	nowadays.—The	emeute	in	itself
was	not	of	a	very	serious	nature,	very	little	real	fighting	and	few	if	any	killed—
but	what	really	made	the	king	anxious	was	the	manifestation	of	the	national
guard	in	favour	of	reform	and	against	Guizot	.	.	.	The	emeute	by	all	accounts	is
over,	now	they	have	got	reform	I	do	not	see	what	they	have	got	to	fight	for	&	I
suppose	we	shall	hear	of	illuminations	and	the	Lord	knows	what	else.	I	know
one	thing	and	that	is	your	humble	servant	will	not	hold	much	French	stock	in
future	.	.	.	[I]t’s	a	dangerous	job	to	give	way	to	a	mob	incited	by	the	National
[Guard].
This	must	have	been	written	just	hours	before	the	fateful	confrontation	in	the	rue
des	Capucins,	in	which	fifty	demonstrators	were	shot	dead	by	soldiers	guarding
the	Foreign	Ministry.	The	next	day,	in	the	face	of	what	he	called	“a	moral
uprising,”	Louis	Philippe	abdicated	in	favour	of	his	grandson	and	fled	to
England,	leaving	the	various	opposition	parties	to	form	a	provisional
government,	including	the	lawyer	Alexandre	Ledru-Rollin,	the	poet	Alphonse	de
Lamartine,	the	socialist	Louis	Blanc	and	a	token	worker	named	Albert.	The
following	day	a	commission	was	set	up	in	response	to	unemployed	building
workers’	assertion	of	their	“right	to	work.”	Nat’s	next	despatch	was	short	and	to
the	point:	“We	are	in	the	midst	of	the	worst	revolution	that	ever	happened—You
may	perhaps	see	us	shortly	after	this	reaches	[you].”	Already	he	and	James	had
sent	their	wives	and	children	to	Le	Havre	to	take	the	next	ship	to	England.
Events	in	France	were	shaped	as	much	by	the	memory	of	past	revolutions	as

--- Page 600 ---
by	anything	else.	Those	who	recalled	how	little	had	been	achieved	in	1830	were
determined	to	establish	a	republic	on	a	more	authentically	democratic	basis;
those	still	frightened	by	memories	of	the	1790s	were	determined	not	to	let	power
into	the	hands	of	neo-Jacobins.	The	issue	was	undecided	until,	at	the	earliest,	the
end	of	June.	Although	the	elections	to	the	Constitutional	Assembly	revealed	the
limited	support	for	radical	republicanism	outside	Paris,	the	possibility	of	a	“red”
coup	within	Paris	could	not	be	ruled	out.	In	May	this	was	attempted
unsuccessfully	by	the	socialists	Raspail,	Blanqui	and	Barbès.	In	June	the	closure
of	the	national	work-shops	led	to	clashes	between	disillusioned	workers	and
National	Guardsmen.	As	late	
as	June	1849,	the	so-called	Montagne	party	took	to
the	streets	in	a	last	vain	bid	to	rekindle	the	Jacobin	spirit.
The	pattern	was	roughly	similar	almost	everywhere	the	revolution	broke	out.
Although	relatively	few	monarchs	were	definitively	deposed	by	the	revolution,	a
number	were	prompted	to	flee	their	capitals	and	most	were	forced	to	make
constitutional	concessions	by	the	outbreak	of	violence	in	the	streets,	which
exposed	the	inadequacy	(or	unreliability)	of	their	civilian	police	forces.	This
collective	scuttle	meant	that	a	variety	of	constitutional	innovations	were
possible,	ranging	from	French	republicanism	(also	tried	in	Rome	and	Venice)	to
parliamentarism	(in	many	German	states).	In	the	Netherlands,	a	centre	of
revolution	in	1830,	the	Dutch	and	Belgian	monarchs	hastily	gave	ground	to
liberal	pressure	and	allowed	constitutional	reforms	to	be	implemented;	the	same
was	true	in	Denmark.	In	Germany,	the	revolution	began	in	Baden,	where	the
Grand	Duke	was	forced	to	concede	a	liberal	constitution	almost	immediately
after	the	Paris	events,	an	example	followed	in	short	order	by	Hesse-Kassel,
Hesse-Darmstadt	and	Württemberg.	In	Bavaria,	King	Ludwig	was	forced	to
abdicate,	his	reputation	irreparably	damaged	by	his	liaison	with	Lola	Montez.
Such	changes	within	the	monarchical	system	did	not	satisfy	more	radical
republicans,	who	attempted	a	coup	in	Baden	in	April.	The	tremors	were	felt	even
in	the	Rothschilds’	home	town:	contrary	to	Anselm’s	expectations,	1848	posed	a
threat	to	ancient	republics	like	Frankfurt	too	if	their	definitions	of	citizenship
were	over-narrow	and	their	governmental	structures	antiquated.	The	first
violence	in	the	town	centre	occurred	in	early	March.
Everywhere	there	seemed	to	be	two	(possibly	successive)	revolutions:	one	of
which	aimed	at	constitutional	reform,	the	other	of	which	had	fundamentally
economic	objectives.	Though	they	overlapped	in	complex	ways,	there	was	a
marked	social	difference	between	the	two.	While	educated	academics,	lawyers
and	professionals	made	speeches	and	drafted	constitutions,	it	was	artisans,

--- Page 601 ---
apprentices	and	workers	who	manned	barricades	and	got	themselves	shot.
Perhaps	the	biggest	difference	between	1848	and	1830	was	that	now	the
revolutionary	epidemic	spread	to	Austria.	Metternich	received	the	news	of	the
Paris	revolution	from	a	Rothschild	courier.	“Eh	bien,	mon	cher,	tout	est	fini,”	he
is	said	to	have	commented,	though	his	subsequent	remarks	to	Salomon	were
more	bullish.	It	was	indeed	all	finished.	On	March	13	crowds	of	demonstrators
clashed	with	troops	outside	the	hall	where	the	Lower	Austrian	Estates	were
meeting.	The	next	day	Metternich	resigned,	fleeing	by	a	circuitous	route	across
Europe	in	disguise	and	with	barely	enough	money—a	credit-note	from	his
faithful	banker	Salomon—to	pay	his	family’s	passage	to	England.	The	Emperor
Ferdinand	replaced	him	with	his	arch-rival	Kolowrat	and	promised	a
constitution.	As	elsewhere,	when	the	new	government	opted	for	an	English-style
bicameral	parliament	with	a	property	franchise	for	the	lower	house,	radical
democrats—mainly	students	like	Hermann	Goldschmidt’s	maverick	cousin
Bernhard	Bauer—took	to	the	streets	(May	15),	prompting	the	Emperor	himself
to	flee	to	Innsbruck.	When	the	Constituent	Assembly	proved	quite	conservative
(the	peasant	deputies	were	satisfied	with	the	abolition	of	serfdom)	and	the
revolutionary	government	tried	to	reduce	the	money	spent	on	public	works,	there
was	further	unrest:	workers	went	on	strike	in	July,	and	students	attempted	a	last-
ditch	coup	in	October.
The	collapse	of	Habsburg	authority	at	the	centre	set	off	a	chain	reaction
throughout	Central	Europe.	In	Prussia,	unrest	had	already	begun	in	the
Rhineland,	but	it	was	the	news	from	Vienna	which	transformed	the	mood	in
Berlin.	On	March	17,	after	days	of	public	demonstrations,	Frederick	William	IV
appeared	to	capitulate	by	agreeing	to	a	constitution,	but	simultaneously	deployed
troops	to	restore	order.	As	in	Paris,	it	was	shots	fired	by	nervy	soldiers	at
demonstrators	in	the	city	centre	which	turned	reform	into	revolution.	For	more
than	twenty-four	hours	fighting	raged;	then	the	King	gave	in,	issuing	a	series	of
proclamations	to	Berliners,	Prussians	and—significantly—“the	German	nation.”
As	in	Baden,	Württemberg	and	Hanover,	liberals	became	ministers,	though	all
those	who	accepted	office	soon	came	to	realise	the	difficulty	of	reconciling	their
aspirations	for	economic	and	political	liberty	with	the	more	radical	aims	of	the
artisans,	students	and	workers.	For	a	time,	the	best	hope	of	unity	appeared	to	be
nationalism.	Thus,	from	an	early	stage,	the	German	revolution	was	more	than
merely	a	matter	of	constitutional	reform	within	states:	it	promised	a	parallel
transformation	of	the	German	Confederation	itself.
The	ramifications	of	the	Habsburg	collapse	were	not	confined	to	Germany.	In

--- Page 602 ---
Prague,	moderate	liberals	like	Frantisek	Palacky	pressed	for	a	modern
parliament	based	on	a	property	franchise	in	place	of	the	antiquated	Bohemian
Diet.	In	Hungary,	Croatia	and	Transylvania	there	were	similar	separatist
tendencies	with	varying	degrees	of	liberalism.	It	was	the	same	in	Italy,	though
the	timing	was	slightly	different.	As	we	have	seen,	the	revolution	in	the	Two
Sicilies	had	begun	early:	on	March	6	Ferdinand	II	granted	a	separate	parliament
in	Sicily	and	was	shortly	afterwards	deposed	there;	two	months	later	he	allowed
a	parliament	to	assemble	in	Naples	itself.	In	Piedmont	and	the	Papal	states,
Charles	Albert	and	Pius	IX	made	similar	concessions,	both	granting
constitutions	in	March.	In	Venice	and	Milan,	revolution	took	the	form	of	revolt
against	Austrian	rule.	As	in	Germany	(though	on	a	smaller	scale),	some
revolutionaries	saw	the	opportunity	to	make	Italy	more	than	merely	a
geographical	expression.
Why	did	1848	seem	“the	worst	revolution	that	ever	happened”	to	the
Rothschilds?	It	is	important	to	notice	that	their	reaction	was	not	determined	by	a
uniformly	ideological	aversion	to	liberal	or	republican	forms	of	government.
Attitudes	towards	the	revolution	varied	widely	from	one	member	of	the	family	to
another.	At	one	extreme,	Salomon	seemed	almost	incapable	of	comprehending
the	calamity	which	had	befallen	him	other	than	in	religious	terms.	When	not
trying	to	justify	his	own	financial	mistakes	in	rambling	letters	to	his	brothers	and
nephews,	Salomon	interpreted	the	revolution	variously	as	an	avoidable	political
mishap	attributable	to	the	incompetence	of	Louis-Philippe,	the	vanity	of	Princess
Metternich	and	the	irresponsibility	of	Palmerston,	and	a	world-historical
upheaval	on	a	par	not	just	with	1789	but	with	the	Peasants’	Wars,	the	Crusades
and	a	biblical	plague	of	locusts.	Whichever	it	was,	he	regarded	it	as	a	divine	test
of	religious	faith.
His	nephew	Nat	lacked	this	consolation.	Already	more	politically	conservative
and	personally	cautious	than	his	brothers	in	London,	he	was	deeply	traumatised
by	the	revolution—to	the	point	of	suffering	something	like	a	physical	or	nervous
collapse.	A	worse	“political	cholera	never	yet	infected	the	world,”	he	lamented,
before	repairing	to	take	the	waters	at	Ems,	“&	I	am	afraid	the	Doctor	does	not
exist	to	cure	it,	a	great	deal	of	blood	must	be	shed	first.”	Virtually	every	letter	he
wrote	to	his	
brothers	during	the	revolutionary	months	concluded	with	a	warning
to	sell	all	their	stocks	and	shares.
No	one	else	in	the	family	took	the	revolution	quite	as	badly.	Neither	Amschel
nor	Carl	seems	to	have	reflected	deeply	on	the	subject:	for	them,	the	revolution
was	like	a	natural	disaster—inexplicable,	but	with	God’s	blessing	survivable.

--- Page 603 ---
The	ideas	of	the	revolution	were	beyond	their	ken—Carl	dismissed	talk	of	Italian
nationality	as	“the	stupid	projects	of	a	few	deranged	minds”—and	as	far	as
possible	he	and	Amschel	sought	to	keep	their	distance	from	political	debate.
Similarly,	the	pageantry	of	nationalism—the	tricolours,	the	patriotic	songs—left
the	older	Rothschilds	stone	cold.	A	contemporary	cartoon	depicts	a	puzzled
Amschel	asking	Arnold	Duckwitz,	the	“Reich	Trade	Minister”	appointed	by	the
Frankfurt	parliament	in	the	summer	of	1848	(on	the	optimistic	assumption	that	a
new	Reich	was	in	the	making):	“Nothing	to	trade	yet,	Mister	Minister?”	(see
illustration	16.iii).	It	was	probably	right	to	imply	that	he	was	baffled	by	the
protracted	and	inconclusive	debates	in	the	parliament.	James,	by	contrast,	had	a
good	idea	what	the	revolutionaries	were	after.	Increasingly	of	the	opinion	that	all
regimes	were	at	once	unreliable	and	financially	biddable,	he	was	inclined	to
salute	whichever	flag	was	run	up	the	mast	after	the	storm.	His	refusal	to	let
Alphonse	serve	in	the	National	Guard,	for	example,	was	more	an	assertion	of	the
primacy	of	family	interests	over	all	politics	than	an	explicitly	anti-republican
gesture.	James	shed	no	tears	for	Louis	Philippe.
This	pragmatism	was	to	some	extent	shared	by	the	four	eldest	sons,	Anselm,
Lionel,	Mayer	Carl	and	Alphonse,	who	already	tended	to	take	a	similar,	sober
view	
of	political	developments.	Unlike	James,	however,	they	all	occasionally
expressed	sympathy	with	liberal	reforms,	though	they	distinguished	these	from
the	ideas	of	radical	democrats,	socialists	and	communists.	Anselm’s
commentaries	on	German	developments	suggest	little	sympathy	with	the	various
kings,	princes	and	archdukes	obliged	to	bow	to	“the	will	of	the	people,”	as	well
as	considerable	impatience	with	the	“old	wig-heads”	of	the	Frankfurt	Senate.	He
was	interested	enough	to	attend	the	first	debates	of	the	German	“pre-parliament”
in	Frankfurt	before	leaving	for	Vienna,	though	it	was	a	detached	kind	of	interest:
unlike	their	London	cousin	Lionel,	neither	he	nor	Mayer	Carl	thought	for	a
moment	of	standing	for	election.	And	Anselm	warmly	welcomed	the	Austrian
constitution	issued	in	March	1849,	the	terms	of	which	were	in	fact	moderately
liberal.	By	contrast,	the	various	younger	brothers	had	more	idiosyncratic
responses.	Adolph	in	Naples	was	simply	terrified.	Anthony,	on	the	other	hand,
regarded	the	German	princes	as	“a	set	of	donkeys”	and	had	“a	very	good
opinion”	of	the	Frankfurt	parliament’s	project	for	a	united	Germany	which	he
thought	“
Right
	and	reasonable.”	As	for	the	nineteen-year-old	Gustave,	he	itched
to	get	back	to	Paris	to	see	the	action	for	himself—only	to	be	disappointed	by	the
“tristesse”	he	encountered	there,	the	extent	of	working	class	unrest	and	the	poor
calibre	of	the	republican	politicians.

--- Page 604 ---
16.iii:	“W.V.,”
	
Baron:	“Noch	niks	zu	handele,	Härr	Minister?
	
”	(1848).
Nowhere	is	the	ambivalence	of	the	Rothschilds	towards	the	revolution	more
apparent	than	in	letters	and	diaries	of	female	members	of	the	family.	James’s
wife	Betty	was	vehemently	hostile	to	the	revolution,	applauding	her	four-year-
old	grandson	James	Edouar	when	he	declared:	“If	I	had	money,	I	would	buy	a
gun	to	shoot	the	republic	and	republicans.”	She	expected	the	French	republican
constitution	“soon	to	go	to	join	its	sisters	whom	oblivion	has	long	since	buried	in
the	mists	of	time”	and	dismissed	the	deputies	in	the	National	Assembly	as	“the
wild	beasts	of	our	great	Parisian	menagerie.”	She	was	equally	contemptuous	of
the	German	revolution.	The	Frankfurt	parliament	was,	she	told	her	eldest	son,
“an	agent	of	false	doctrines	and	anarchy.”	When	Robert	Blum	was	shot	in
Vienna,	she	was	delighted	that	“his	factious	voice	has	been	extinguished”	and
regretted	only	that	the	same	had	not	been	done	in	Paris.	Bizarrely	for	one	whose
parents	had	been	born	in	the	Frankfurt	ghetto,	Betty	even	expressed	nostalgia	for
the	
ancien	régime
	of	the	eighteenth	century,	“that	century	when	minds	were	so
fertile,	and	when	anyone	knew	how	to	bring	honour	to	his	rank	with	dignity
without	departing	from	it,	and	did	not	consider	himself	lowered	by	obedience	to
a	higher	authority.”	The	nineteenth	century	she	thought	“an	evil	age.”
Her	cousin,	Lionel’s	wife	Charlotte,	took	a	very	different	view,	however.	She
feared	for	the	family’s	financial	future,	of	course;	yet	at	the	same	time	she

--- Page 605 ---
derived	a	certain	moralistic	satisfaction	from	the	crisis,	seeing	it	as	an
opportunity	for	self-denial	and	self-improvement.	Following	political	events	on
the	continent	in	her	relatives’	letters	and	in	the	newspapers	gave	her	a	sense	of
exhilaration,	of	historical	acceleration.	It	was,	she	wrote	in	her	diary,	“in	truth	.	.
.	the	age	of	the	railways,	for	the	last	six	weeks	have	been	almost	as	eventful	as
the	six	years	which	saw	Louis	XVI’s	death,	the	great	Terror,	the	Convention	and
Napoleon.”	Above	all,	she	was	captivated	by	the	possibilities	of	German
unification	raised	at	Frankfurt:
As	for	Germany,	there	are	hopes	that	she	will	soon	become	prosperous,
powerful,	united	and	free.	In	Prussia	also	the	people	have	won	a	victory	
over	the
army	and	the	king	is	forced	to	grant	his	subjects	all	the	reforms	and	concessions
they	demand.	The	ministry	has	changed;	the	prince	of	Prussia	has	fled;	the	press
is	free;	the	proceedings	of	the	law	courts	are	public	.	.	.	and	all	confessions	and
religions	have	equal	rights.	Once	more	as	a	great	and	united	empire,	strong	and
happy,	elevated	and	proud,	Germany	will	trounce	the	Russian	storms,	the
Cossack	invasions	and	the	warmongering	of	the	French.
To	be	sure,	her	ideal	of	a	united	Germany	was	strictly	monarchical:	like	Anselm,
she	repudiated	republicanism.	But	in	the	French	context	Charlotte	could	find
positive	things	to	say	even	about	republicans.	Her	view	was	that
those	at	the	helm	of	state	wish	to	lay	a	foundation	of	prosperity	and	happiness
for	their	country,	even	if	they	are	mistaken	in	the	means	they	adopt	to	achieve
this	.	.	.	Ledru	Rollin	.	.	.	has	honest	intentions	for	France	and	at	this	time	of
general	turmoil,	he	alone,	apparently,	of	all	the	members	of	the	administration	is
capable	of	taking	action	as	a	leader.
Charlotte’s	sister-in-law	Louisa	also	saw	positive	aspects	to	“this	wonderful
Revolution.”	Provided	“our	house	can	only	weather	the	storm,”	she	felt	able	to
bear	“any	losses,	however	severe.”	“I	cannot	say,”	she	confessed,	“that	the	effect
it	may	have	upon	our	fortunes	disturbs	me	at	all.	This	is	not	philosophy,	but
simple	indifference,	or,	rather,	dislike	to	grandeur	and	display	.	.	.”
In	short,	there	was	scarcely	a	united	family	front	against	the	revolution.	This
can	also	be	seen	in	the	way	individual	Rothschilds	treated	the	toppled	kings	and
ministers	who	found	their	way	into	exile	in	England.	Betty	was	shocked	to	hear
that	Louis	Philippe	and	his	family	were	living	on	100	francs	a	day	in	Richmond.
But	the	most	he	seems	to	have	got	from	the	English	Rothschilds	was	a	case	of
good	bordeaux.	The	revolution	had	also	left	Metternich	powerless	and	poor,	as

--- Page 606 ---
Charlotte	remarked:
His	castle	at	Johannisberg	has	been	appropriated	because	he	has	not	paid	his
taxes	for	the	past	nine	years	.	.	.	The	Prince	has	never	owned	a	large	fortune.	In
his	past	youth	he	lived	extravagantly	and	later	had	to	settle	the	debts	of	his	son.
Now	he	has	a	large	family	to	provide	for	and	educate.	His	financial	affairs	have
only	recently	been	put	in	order	by	Uncle	Salomon.
She	had	little	sympathy	for	his	plight	and	shared	the	Frankfurt	partners’
disinclination	to	give	him	further	financial	assistance.	But	Lionel	felt	a	sense	of
familial	obligation	to	“Uncle.”	In	June	Metternich	was	given	a	323,000	gulden
advance,	secured	against	his	(heavily	depreciated)	railway	shares.	A	further	loan
of	5,500	gulden	to	Princess	Melanie	appears	in	the	Vienna	house’s	books	for
November	1848,	and	by	the	following	year	the	combined	debts	of	the
Metternichs	stood	at	216,500	gulden.	In	addition,	the	repayments	on	the	second
half	of	the	1827	loan—which	were	supposed	to	be	completed	by	1859—were
rescheduled,	so	that	a	substantial	sum	was	still	outstanding	at	the	end	of	the
1870s.
In	two	lengthy	letters	to	Salomon—one	written	as	he	passed	incognito	through
Arnhem,	the	other	from	the	safety	of	England—Metternich	repaid	his	faithful
bankers	with	a	rambling	apologia	which	shed	intriguing	light	on	their
relationship:
What	disorder	the	world	has	fallen	into!	You	always	used	to	ask	me	whether	war
was	in	sight.	You	always	heard	me	reassure	you	that	this	was	not	the	case	and	as
long	as	
I
	had	the	reins	in	my	hands	I	would	be	able	to	vouch	for	political	peace.
The	danger	of	the	day	was	not	on	the	field	of	political	war,	but	of	
social
	war.	On
this	field	too	I	have	held	the	reins	in	my	hands	as	long	as	was	humanly	possible.
On	the	day	when	that	possibility	ceased,	I	stepped	down	from	the	driver’s	seat,
for	being	overthrown	is	against	my	nature.	If	I	am	asked	whether	that	could	have
been	avoided	by	what	naive	utopians	call	Reform,	I	reply	with	a	categorical	
No
—for	the	logical	reason	that	the	measures	which	
today
	are	called	Reforms	and
which	might,	under	some	conditions,	have	had	the	merit	of	bringing
improvements,	could	have	had	no	more	value,	given	the	situation	of	society	as	it
was,	than	a	dance	with	torches	on	powder	kegs	.	.	.	You,	dear	Salomon,	have
understood	me	for	years.	Many	others	have	not.
Things	in	France	are	only	just	beginning.	Never	before	has	there	been	a
greater,	more	deep-seated	confusion.

--- Page 607 ---
Perhaps	this	was	just	a	way	of	currying	favour	with	those	he	hoped	would
finance	his	new	“bourgeois	life.”	But	this	avowal	of	mutual	understanding	was	a
fitting	epitaph	for	a	partnership	which,	since	they	had	first	met	at	Aix	thirty
years	before,	had	exercised	a	remarkable	influence	over	Europe.	It	was	left	to	the
sceptical	Anselm	to	note	that	these	were	“theories	which	can’t	be	of	great	help	to
the	world	now.”
	
The	Threat	to	Property
It	was	not	the	danger	the	revolution	posed	to	their	own	lives	which	most	alarmed
the	Rothschilds.	Although	quick	to	pack	their	wives	and	younger	children	off	to
safety	at	moments	of	crisis,	the	male	Rothschilds—most	of	whom	ran	at	least
some	personal	risk	during	the	period—were	singularly	cool	as	the	bullets	and
bricks	began	to	fly.	On	February	24	James	was	seen	by	the	young	Feydeau	(then
serving	in	the	National	Guard)	emerging	arm	in	arm	with	an	unidentified	male
companion	from	the	rue	de	la	Paix	and	walking	towards	the	ransacked	Tuileries,
even	as	gunshots	continued	to	emanate	from	its	grounds.
“Monsieur	le	Baron,”	I	said	to	him,	“today	does	not	seem	to	me	a	very	fortunate
choice	of	day	for	a	walk.	In	my	opinion,	you	would	do	better	to	return	home,
rather	than	expose	yourself	to	the	bullets	which	are	whistling	throughout	this
part	of	town.”
“My	young	friend,”	he	replied,	“I	tank	you	for	your	adfice.	But	tell	me,	vy	are
you	here?	To	do	your	duty,	isn’t	it?	Vell	then,	I	too,	Paron	de	Rothschild,	haf
come	for	the	same	ting.	Your	duty	is	to	stand	armed	vatch,	and	assure	the	safety
of	goot	citizens;	mine	is	to	go	to	the	Minister	off	Finance,	to	see	vether	they	may
not	need	my	experience	and	my	counsel.”
And	with	that	he	left	me.
As	early	as	March	4	James	was	ready	to	let	his	wife	and	sons	return	to	Paris—
though	in	agreeing	to	Betty’s	request	he	added	some	caveats:
All	I	ask	is	that	you	obtain	a	passport	under	a	different	name	for	a	round	trip.	If
you	bring	Alphonse,	he	too	should	have	a	supplementary	passport	with	another
name,	because	I	don’t	want	the	newspapers	to	print	a	headline	saying,	“Madame
de	Rothschild	has	returned	to	London,”	if	you	decide	to	go	back	there.	That
would	give	rise	to	idle	gossip	.	.	.	Come	and	bring	Alphonse,	although	I	wonder
whether	we	shouldn’t	keep	him	out	of	politics.	If	they	see	him,	he’ll	be	required
to	enlist	in	the	National	Guard.	He	may	come	if	he	lies	low.

--- Page 608 ---
In	May,	at	the	time	of	the	abortive	coup	by	Barbès	and	his	associates,	amid
talk	of	guillotines	in	the	place	de	la	Concorde,	James	was	once	again	ready	to
send	his	sons	abroad	for	safety,	and	indeed	briefly	visited	London	himself.	Yet
he	himself	contemplated	fleeing	Paris	only	for	a	brief	moment	at	the	beginning
of	the	June	days.	The	contrast	with	his	anxiety-ridden	nephew	could	not	have
been	greater.	Nat	was	even	alarmed	by	the	men	sent	to	protect	the	rue	Laffitte	by
the	new	prefect	of	police	Marc	Caussidière:	“a	most	ferocious	looking	set	of
gents	with	red	sashes	and	anything	but	agreeable	to	meet	in	a	dark	night	alone	&
unarmed—They	would	eat	you	up	alive.”	Though	he	stayed	in	Paris	during	the
revolution’s	most	turbulent	months,	he	retreated	to	England	with	relief	at	the	end
of	November.	James	was	contemptuous	of	such	pusillanimity.	As	Betty	proudly
told	Alphonse,	her	husband	was	one	of	the	few	who	had	“valiantly	resisted	the
terrible	storms	which	have	struck	down	the	courage	and	mental	strength	of	so
many.”
Salomon	too	stood	his	ground	in	Vienna	though	he	rarely	went	out	of	doors.
Despite	regularly	hearing	the	sound	of	“drumming	in	the	streets”	in	the	weeks
after	March	13,	he	did	not	quit	the	city	until	June,	and	then	elected	to	settle	with
Amschel	in	less	than	tranquil	Frankfurt.	Anselm	hung	on	until	October	6-7,
when	armed	revolutionaries	took	up	positions	on	the	roof	of	the	Rothschild
offices	following	the	lynching	of	Count	Latour	outside	the	War	Ministry	and	the
storming	of	the	Arsenal,	“situated	only	one	house	from	our	own.”	So	dangerous
had	the	city	become	by	this	stage	that	when	Moritz	Goldschmidt	returned	to
rescue	the	bank’s	papers,	he	had	to	disguise	himself	as	a	milkman;	and	Anselm
felt	obliged	to	remain	in	the	country	for	a	month.
Amschel	never	left	Frankfurt,	despite	a	number	of	alarming	popular
demonstrations.	When	a	crowd	gathered	outside	his	house	one	night	in	March
1848,	he	“had	gone	to	sleep	a	long	time	before	and	only	learned	about	it	the	next
day”;	finally	he	hung	nationalist	flags	out	the	window	in	the	hope	of	being	left	in
peace.	Business	continued	in	the	Frankfurt	office	even	when	it	was	surrounded
by	barricades	and	hit	by	four	bullets	in	September.	A	contemporary	woodcut
captured	Amschel’s	sang-froid	when	it	depicted	him	remonstrating	with	two
rifle-carrying	revolutionaries.	“What’s	going	on	in	my	house?”	demands	“Baron
von	Rotschirm,”	referring	to	the	sign	being	nailed	to	his	front	door.	The
“barricade	maker”	replies:	“Now	it’s	begun,	Herr	Baron,	now	things	will	be
divided	up	equally,	but	private	property	is	sacred.”	At	this,	Amschel	explodes:
“What’s	begun?	Begone	yourselves!	Property	sacred?	Divided	up?	What	d’you
say?	My	property	has	always	been	sacred	to	me,	I	don’t	need	you	to	write	that	on

--- Page 609 ---
my	door.	Divided	up?	When	the	Prussians	come,	you’ll	all	be	divided	up”	(see
illustration	16.iv).
The	“nervousness”	of	Nat	and	of	Carl	and	Adolph	in	Naples	was	the
exception,	and	struck	other	family	members	as	such.
2
	Although	they	often
commented	on	the	anti-Semitism	which	accompanied	the	revolution	in	parts	of
Central	Europe,	
the	other	male	Rothschilds	never	seem	to	have	felt	themselves
threatened	by	it.	Indeed,	James	was	more	worried	that	he	might	be	arrested	as	a
German	spy	in	the	event	of	a	war	breaking	out,	while	his	wife	seems	to	have
been	as	concerned	for	James’s	dignity	as	for	his	life.	Haughtily,	she	told
Charlotte	how	the	new	French	Minister	of	the	Interior	Louis	Antoine	Garnier-
Pagès	“always	addresses	our	Uncle	simply	as	‘Rothschild’	without	a	prefix”	(that
is,	the	title	“Baron”	or	“de”)—a	mark	of	disrespect	he	was	spared	from	older
revolutionaries	like	Lamartine.	Other	members	of	the	family	found	the
revolution’s	self-conscious	(and	often	backward-looking)	symbolism	faintly
comical.	Marx	was	not	the	only	one	to	suspect	that	history	was	repeating	itself,
but	as	farce	rather	than	tragedy.	The	endless	illuminations	of	Paris,	the	ritualised
tree-planting,	and	above	all	the	elaborate	neo-classical	rituals	involving	white-
clad	virgins	seemed	absurd,	especially	to	the	English	Rothschilds.
16.iv:	Anon.,
	
Barrikaten-Scene	am	18.	September:	“Was	geht	vor	in	mein
Haus?
	
”	(September	18,	1848).
It	was	in	fact	the	threat	to	their	property	which	worried	the	Rothschilds	more

--- Page 610 ---
than	any	threat	to	their	persons.	The	marking	of	selected	town	houses	and	the
ransacking	of	Salomon’s	villa	at	Suresnes—along	with	Louis	Philippe’s	at
Neuilly—were	only	the	first	visible	expressions	of	this	threat.
3
	There	were	also
arson	attacks	on	some	railway	stations	and	bridges	belonging	to	the	Nord
company.	The	Easter	elections	to	the	Constituent	Assembly	reassured	Nat	that
there	was	no	longer	any	danger	of	“a	
sanguinary	revolution
,”	but	he	still
expected	“our	
purses
”	to	“bleed.”	Rumours	that	the	rue	Laffitte	would	be
plundered	persisted	into	April;	and	the	following	month,	on	the	eve	of	the
decisive	“June	days,”	Gustave	described	the	appearance	on	walls	in	the	city	of
“lists	where	to	plunder	and	we	are	mentioned	as	having	600,000,000	francs.”	In
Frankfurt	too—despite	assurances	from	more	moderate	revolutionaries	to	the
contrary—Rothschild	properties	were	singled	out	for	attacks.	On	three	separate
occasions,	Amschel’s	windows	were	smashed,	and	he	took	the	precaution	of
sending	“the	greater	part	of	our	disposable	effects”	to	Brussels	and	Amsterdam
until	he	was	more	confident	that	“private	property	will	be	
respected.”	In	Vienna,
the	Goldschmidts’	house	was	ransacked	by	workers	building	barricades	outside
it	in	May.	Small	wonder	Anselm	and	Nat	took	the	precaution	of	sending
silverware	and	porcelain	to	London	for	safekeeping.
A	second	threat	to	Rothschild	property	was	that	of	formal	confiscation	by
revolutionary	regimes,	whether	in	the	form	of	expropriation	or	heavy	direct
taxation.	Reassurances	of	the	sort	relayed	by	their	associate	Bleichröder	from
Berlin	on	March	18—“there	is	absolutely	no	cause	to	fear	for	private
property”—could	hardly	be	taken	seriously	given	the	obvious	danger	that
moderates	like	Camphausen	and	Hansemann	might	be	displaced	by	more	radical
politicians.	As	James	put	it	in	April,	“They	won’t	touch	a	hair	on	your	head,	but
they’ll	pose	progressively	until	you	have	nothing	left	to	eat.”	In	Vienna,	attacks
on	the	Rothschilds	in	the	press	seemed	to	imply	confiscation	of	their	factories	if
wages	and	conditions	were	not	improved.	In	Venice,	Salomon’s	salt	factory
looked	vulnerable	to	Manin’s	republican	regime.
The	most	serious	proposals	for	formal	expropriation,	however,	came	in	Paris,
where	plans	for	the	nationalisation	of	the	railway	network—a	radical	demand
which	predated	the	revolution—began	to	be	discussed	as	early	as	March.	The
railway	companies,	it	was	argued,	had	failed	to	honour	their	commitments	under
the	plan	of	1842:	having	underestimated	the	costs	of	railway	construction	and
devoted	their	attention	to	crooked	share	speculations,	they	could	not	even	make
the	payments	due	to	the	government	for	their	concessions.	Without	a	doubt,	the
financial	position	of	the	railway	companies	in	the	spring	of	1848	was	precarious.

--- Page 611 ---
The	Nord,	for	example,	owed	the	government	between	72	and	87	million	francs
which	it	was	quite	unable	to	pay;	and	these	debts	could	easily	have	justified	a
government	takeover.	It	must	be	said	that	nationalisation	would	not	have	been
unwelcome	to	Nat,	who	had	never	been	much	enamoured	of	the	railways.	With
the	price	of	the	company’s	shares	as	low	as	212	and	the	railway	workers
repeatedly	defying	the	authority	of	their	foremen	and	masters—even	insisting	on
the	planting	of	“trees	of	liberty”	in	front	of	main	stations—he	was	eager	to	be	rid
of	them.	But	James	was	altogether	less	ready	to	surrender	the	backbone	of	his
nascent	industrial	empire.	Unlike	those	companies	whose	lines	were	not	yet
completed,	the	Nord	was	already	earning	money	from	freight	and	passengers	and
the	revolution	did	not	much	affect	this.
The	most	serious	threat	of	all	was	posed	to	that	part	of	the	Rothschilds’	wealth
held	in	the	form	of	government	securities,	the	price	of	which	fell	dramatically	in
the	first	weeks	of	the	new	republic.	Table	16a	shows	the	devastating	effect	of	the
revolution	on	some	of	the	principal	securities	held	by	the	five	Rothschild	houses.
Although	
prices	had	been	falling	generally	since	the	onset	of	the	economic	crisis
in	1846,	if	not	before,	the	period	February	to	April	1848	saw	a	catastrophic
collapse.
Table	16a:	The	financial	crisis	of	1846-1848.
Sources:	
Spectator
;	Heyn,	“Private	banking”;	Felisini,	
Finanze	pontificie
.
As	we	have	seen,	James	had	held	on	to	around	170	million	francs	of	the	new	3
per	cent	rentes	issued	the	previous	year.	By	April,	the	market	value	of	these	was
less	than	half	what	he	had	paid	for	them.	Yet	he	remained	formally	obliged	to
resume	paying	the	cash	instalments	due	to	the	French	Treasury	(which	amounted
to	roughly	10	million	francs	a	month	over	two	years)	in	November.	In	addition
to	these	heavy	losses,	there	was	also	likely	to	be	red	ink	on	the	bills	account:	as
Nat	put	it,	“We	have	16	million	francs	[of]	bills,	but	God	knows	how	many	will
be	paid.”	With	bankers	as	substantial	as	d’Eichthal	in	difficulties,	the	outlook

--- Page 612 ---
was	grim.	At	the	same	time,	the	Paris	house	owed	around	10	million	francs	to
railway	companies,	including	the	Nord,	the	Strasbourg	line	and	the	Grand-
Combe.	Too	many	of	its	assets	were	depreciating	stocks,	shares	and	bills;	too
many	of	its	liabilities	were	now	due	in	cash.	One	1848	cartoon	showed	a
hobgoblin-like	Rothschild	tilting	the	scales	of	the	bourse	to	his	own	advantage
while	above	him	the	students	demonstrate	with	a	banner	calling	for	the	abolition
of	everything	“except	students”	(see	illustration	16.v).	In	fact	the	Rothschilds
lost	heavily	in	the	crash.
Under	these	circumstances,	many	observers	expected	James	to	declare	himself
insolvent	and	probably	also	to	flee	Paris	along	with	his	family.	The	Austrian
ambassador	Apponyi	watched	him	closely	throughout	March	and	April,
expecting	the	bank	to	close	its	doors	at	any	moment.	On	February	27,	for
example,	he	found	James	and	other	bankers	“in	a	deplorable	state”	because	their
rentes	had	been	reduced	to	“slips	of	paper,	representing	nothing.”	Caussidière
certainly	suspected	
James	of	planning	to	leave	Paris:	rumours	circulated	that	he
was	smuggling	gold	out	of	Paris	hidden	in	manure	carts	and	(as	much	to	keep	an
eye	on	him	as	to	protect	his	house	from	looters)	James	was	placed	under	police
surveillance.	Throughout	March	and	into	April,	rumours	that	de	Rothschild
Frères	would	be	the	next	bank	to	fail	abounded.	Apponyi	felt	James	was	hanging
“by	a	thread”;	his	friend	Léon	Faucher	described	him	as	being	“bled	white.”	It
was	not	far	from	the	truth:	at	one	point	in	April	James’s	cash	reserve	was
reduced	to	little	more	than	a	million	francs.	When	a	clerical	error	made	it	seem
even	less,	he	admitted	to	a	moment	of	panic,	and	joked	of	“giving	up	business,
going	to	the	country	and	living	off	potatoes.”

--- Page 613 ---
16.v:	“Alexander,”
	
Eine	Sturmpetition:	Das	Steigen	und	Fallen	auf	der	Börse
(1848).
If	anything,	the	position	of	the	Vienna	house	was	even	worse.	Not	only	was
Salomon	saddled	with	substantial	amounts	of	metalliques;	as	we	have	seen,	he
had	also	assumed	onerous	commitments	as	a	result	of	his	rescue	of	Eskeles.
Altogether,	he	estimated	his	payments	due	in	the	near	future	to	third	parties	at
around	3	million	gulden.	In	fact,	the	position	was	much	worse	than	this,	as
Anselm	soon	discovered;	for	the	money	to	save	Eskeles	had	been	raised	by
depositing	three-month	finance	bills	worth	2.75	million	gulden	at	the	National
Bank,	the	renewal	of	which	had	never	been	formally	agreed	before	the
revolution.	This	was	in	addition	to	bills	worth	a	further	2	million	gulden,	most	of
which	Salomon	had	issued	to	finance	an	advance	to	the	Nordbahn.	In	all,	his
pending	obligations	were	therefore	closer	to	8	million	gulden.	Salomon	was	in
no	position	to	pay	such	sums	when	they	fell	due	as	the	greater	part	of	his	assets
were	industrial	shares	which	the	revolution	had	rendered	unsaleable.	The	full
extent	of	Salomon’s	insolvency	can	be	seen	in	the	balance	sheets	which	were
subsequently	drawn	up	by	Anselm.	Fully	27	per	cent	of	his	assets	were
accounted	for	by	his	stakes	in	the	Witkowitz	ironworks,	the	Nordbahn	and	the
Austrian	Lloyd,	to	say	nothing	of	various	smaller	industrial	properties	he	had

--- Page 614 ---
acquired	as	securities	for	loans.	None	of	this	could	easily	be	realised.	Small
wonder	he	“envied	his	blessed	brother	Nathan”;	he	was,	as	he	told	his	brothers,
“in	the	most	painful	situation	that	ever	existed.”	This	was	precisely	the	situation
his	English	nephews	had	feared	when	they	advised	James	against	tying	up
money	in	railways.
The	plight	of	the	Vienna	house	in	turn	jeopardised	the	position	of	the
Frankfurt	house:	new	calculations	in	March	suggested	that	Salomon	owed	the
other	Rothschild	houses—principally	Frankfurt—some	£1.7	million	(half	his
total	liabilities).	Salomon	subsequently	tried	to	justify	this	by	arguing	that	the
Frankfurt	house	had	been	milking	the	Vienna	branch	for	years,	but	the	most	that
can	be	said	is	that	Amschel	was	as	much	to	blame	for	allowing	him	to
accumulate	such	an	enormous	debt.	For	the	Frankfurt	house	had	problems
enough	on	its	own	account,	notably	the	payments	still	owing	to	the	state	of
Württemberg	for	its	loan,	money	due	to	Hesse-Kassel,	and	the	substantial	sum
deposited	with	it	by	the	German	Confederation	(the	so-called	“fortress	money”)
which	it	was	now	feared	would	be	withdrawn.	Altogether,	Anselm	put	its	short-
term	liabilities	at	8	million	gulden,	and	felt	sufficiently	pressed	to	terminate
support	for	the	Beyfuses,	writing	off	1.3	million	gulden	already	advanced	to
keep	them	afloat.	Another	source	of	anxiety	was	a	substantial	sum	(1.2	million
gulden)	owed	to	the	Frankfurt	house	by	Prussia,	the	payment	of	which	could	no
longer	be	relied	upon.	Ironically,	it	was	Amschel	who	turned	to	Salomon	for
assistance	in	the	first	weeks	of	March—at	the	very	time	that	James	was
desperately	seeking	assistance	from	Frankfurt,	urging	Anselm	to	sell	securities
“at	any	price!”	Each	house	thought	the	other	owed	it	money;	none	was	in	a
position	to	pay.	Salomon	pledged	all	his	houses	and	estates	as	securities	for	the
money	he	owed	the	Frankfurt	house;	but,	as	none	of	these	were	realisable,	the
valuation	he	gave	them	(5	million	gulden)	was	purely	notional.
With	three	out	of	the	five	Rothschild	houses	on	the	verge	of	insolvency,	the
future	of	the	family	as	a	whole	evidently	began	to	look	doubtful.	In	London,
Charlotte	encountered	a	new,	disrespectful	tone	from	diplomats	like	the	Austrian
ambassador	Count	Dietrichstein,	who,	as	she	recorded	in	her	diary,
paid	me	some	compliments	in	poor	taste,	saying,	“Looking	at	you	it	is	obvious
that	you	no	longer	enjoy	such	a	high	position	in	the	world.	Now	you	are	grateful
if	someone	calls	you	beautiful	whereas	in	the	past	you	would	have	laughed	your
head	off	at	such	irony.”	I	replied,	“And	why	is	it	that	I	no	longer	enjoy	such	a
high	position?	Is	it	because	I	no	longer	have	a	money-sack	for	my	throne	or	my
footstool?	Or	is	it	perhaps	because	I	no	longer	am	a	money-sack?”	“The	money-

--- Page 615 ---
sack	is	still	there,	but	the	revolution	has	half	emptied	it.”	“The	world	will	not
trouble	itself	about	that,	your	Excellency,	provided	we	do	not	delay	our
payments	and	make	no	claims	upon	it.”
She	suspected	that	even	the	Disraelis	“believe	in	the	destruction	of	our	power,”
though	this	too	she	defiantly	rejected:	“It	does	not	lie	in	our	wealth	alone,	and
God	the	Almighty	will	not	withdraw	his	protecting	hand	from	us.	Amen!”
Privately,	as	she	admitted,	“the	Rothschilds,	whose	wealth	only	two	months	ago
exceeded	the	reserve	of	the	Bank	of	England,	have	lost	the	greatest	part	of	that
wealth.”
	
	
Survival
How	then	did	they	survive?	The	obvious	answer	is	that	the	revolutions
themselves	did	not.	The	degree	of	popular	support	for	liberal	and	republican
constitutional	innovations	outside	the	major	cities	turned	out	to	be	limited,	while
within	the	cities	there	were	deep	divisions	between	different	occupational	groups
over	economic	issues:	liberalising	bankers	had	little	in	common	with	disgruntled
artisans	who	yearned	to	revitalise	the	guild	system.	Such	divisions	did	much	to
dish	the	republicans	in	France	and	the	liberals	in	Germany.	Secondly,	there	was
much	less	danger	than	there	had	been	in	1830	of	a	war	between	the	great	powers
—which	in	many	ways	remained	the	Rothschilds’	greatest	nightmare,	not	least
because	of	the	remembered	tendency	of	war	to	radicalise	revolution.	James	said
on	more	than	one	occasion	that	he	would	leave	Paris	in	the	event	of	a	major	war;
but	Lamartine’s	France	declined	(once	again)	to	play	its	historic	role	as	the
exporter	of	revolution,	while	Palmerston’s	Britain	could	not	decide	whether	to
back	the	revolution	or	not,	when	aspects	of	it	appeared	contrary	to	British
interests	(notably	the	German	claim	to	the	duchies	of	Schleswig	and	Holstein).
4
Prussia	and	Piedmont	went	to	war,	to	be	sure,	but	with	strictly	limited	aims	and
even	less	resolve.	Thirdly,	the	revolutionaries	dissipated	a	good	deal	of	their
energies	on	national	questions	which	implied	a	redrawing	of	state	borders	as
well	as	constitutions;	and	here	the	contradictory	rather	than	complementary
nature	of	“the	springtime	of	the	peoples”	became	manifest.
As	in	1830,	the	Poles	fell	victim	to	Russian	intransigent	opposition	to	their
aspirations,	despite	a	half-hearted	Prussian	flicker	of	support	(it	was	all	over	in
Posen	as	early	as	May).	The	minor	Slav	nationalities	within	the	Habsburg
Empire	had	everything	to	fear	from	successful	Magyar	secession,	nothing	to	gain

--- Page 616 ---
from	the	creation	of	a	greater	Germany	and	little	in	common	among	themselves,
least	of	all	language.	The	German	project	hatched	in	Frankfurt	foundered
ostensibly	because	the	out-sized	and	loquacious	parliament	could	not	agree	on	a
royal	figurehead	for	their	new	liberally	constituted	federation;	in	reality	because
there	was	no	way	of	reconciling	Austrian	and	Prussian	notions	of	how	the
German	Confederation	should	be	reformed.	Beyond	the	“Kingdom	of	Upper
Italy”	formed	by	Piedmont,	Milan	and	Lombardy	in	May	1848,	the	notion	of
Italian	unity	was	really	an	afterthought	to	a	multiplicity	of	quite	diverse	revolts
up	and	down	the	peninsula.	Thus	competing	nationalisms	tended	to	cancel	one
another	out.	Finally,	once	the	Habsburg	armies	had	regrouped	under	the
leadership	of	Windischgrätz,	Jelacic	and	Radetzky,	they	made	short	work	of	the
revolutionaries.	Prague	fell	in	June	1848.	Charles	Albert’s	Piedmontese	armies
were	defeated	at	Custozza	the	following	month	(July	25).	Vienna	itself
capitulated	in	November.
Yet	none	of	this	could	have	been	predicted	with	any	degree	of	certainty.	In
many	ways	the	revolution	was	at	its	most	radical	in	the	period	after	October
1848,	and	its	defeat	in	Italy,	South	Germany	and	Hungary	was	not	conclusive
until	the	summer	of	1849.	Under	the	circumstances	of	March	1848,	James	and
Salomon	could	have	been	forgiven	for	following	Louis	Philippe,	Guizot	and
Metternich	into	exile,	so	closely	identified	were	they	with	the	ousted	kings	and
ministers.	Instead,	they	stayed;	and	their	survival	is	one	of	the	most	remarkable
aspects	of	1848—from	a	Marxist	perspective,	one	of	the	classic	symptoms	of	the
revolution’s	foredoomed	failure.
The	
sine	qua	non
	of	the	Rothschilds’	survival	was	their	own	“concordia.”
Mayer	Amschel’s	hallowed	injunction	to	his	male	progeny	to	maintain	familial
unity	never	counted	for	more,	for	it	was	the	ability	of	the	London	house	(and	to	a
lesser	extent	the	Naples	and	Frankfurt	houses)	to	bail	out	the	stricken	Paris	and
Vienna	houses	which	proved	decisive.	It	helped	that	the	revolution	which	had
been	so	successful	in	Sicily	failed	so	comprehensively	in	Naples.	The	accounts
of	the	Rothschild	house	there	reveal	1848	as	a	poor	but	not	a	disastrous	year:
profits	slumped	to	just	2,709	ducats	in	the	first	half	of	1848,	but	bounced	back	to
58,229	ducats	in	the	second	half;	for	the	year	as	a	whole	they	were	down	just
over	40	per	cent	on	1847.	The	balance	sheets	show	the	Naples	house	treading
water,	with	no	major	changes	in	the	composition	of	its	assets	between	1845	and
1850.	It	was	therefore	possible	for	Carl	to	send	money	to	Frankfurt	in	early
April.
It	helped	even	more	that	(as	Charlotte	put	it)	“the	stirring	wind	of	revolution

--- Page 617 ---
which	destroys	the	old	injustices	[did]	not	blow	in	England”—thanks	in	no	small
measure	to	the	repeal	of	the	Corn	Laws	and	the	suspension	of	the	Bank	Charter
Act	in	1847.	The	Chartist	demonstration	on	Kennington	Common	on	April	10
made	the	family	nervous,	but	proved	a	damp	squib;	and	Nat’s	warning	to	Lionel
that	“you	will	find	yourselves	in	the	same	position	with	regard	to	P.A.	[Prince
Albert]	as	we	are	with	L.P.	[Louis	Philippe]”	proved	excessively	pessimistic.
5
	In
Ireland	too	the	harvest	proved	less	disastrous	than	had	been	feared.	This	meant
that,	having	suffered	its	worst-ever	year	in	the	year	of	monetary	crisis,	1847—
with	losses	amounting	to	a	staggering	£660,702,	or	30	per	cent	of	capital—the
London	house	was	able	to	rebuild	its	position	with	some	measure	of	success	in
1848	and	1849,	pushing	its	profits	back	up	to	£132,058	and	£334,524.	It	was	true
then,	as	Charlotte	had	to	
admit	to	Dietrichstein,	that	the	Rothschilds	as	a	family
were	less	rich	than	they	had	been;	but	their	“money-sack”	was	far	from	half-
empty,	to	judge	by	the	limited	domestic	economies	she	had	to	make.	“We	had
three	nursemaids	and	sent	away	two	of	them,”	she	declared,	“keeping	one	to	do
the	dirtier	and	heavier	chores.	We	shall	dress	the	children	ourselves.	Our	hands
shall	certainly	lose	some	of	their	whiteness	and	beauty	in	the	process,	but	they
will	still	be	of	use	to	us,	we	hope.”	Piano	tutors	for	her	daughter	Leonora	had	to
be	content	with	10	shillings	an	hour;	when	Chopin	told	her	grandmother	that	he
“cost”	20	guineas	per	performance,	she	“replied	that	of	course	I	could	play	very
beautifully,	but	that	she	advised	me	to	take	less,	as	one	had	to	show	greater
‘moderayshon’	this	season.	I	gather	from	this	that	they	are	not	so	open-handed
and	that	money	is	tight	everywhere.”
Yet	there	was	a	vast	difference	between	these	expenditures	and	the	immense
sums	required	by	the	Paris,	Frankfurt	and	Vienna	houses.	Lionel’s	hasty	visit	to
Paris	in	late	February	seems	to	have	convinced	him	that	James’s	position	could
be	salvaged,	but	he	was	a	good	deal	more	hesitant	about	Salomon	and	Amschel.
For	all	their	sentimental	appeals	to	their	father’s	memory,	they	were	made	to
sweat—and	pay—for	their	salvation.	Indeed,	Lionel’s	first	reaction	to	Salomon’s
pleas	for	support	(in	the	form	of	accepting	some	bills	of	Sina’s)	was	to	refuse;
and	when	he	did	respond	to	the	appeals	of	the	Frankfurt	house	to	send	silver	(the
first	of	which	arrived	on	April	14),	he	made	sure	the	London	house	turned	a
profit	on	the	shipments.	His	uncles	reproached	him,	but	they	were	at	his	mercy
and	were	made	to	feel	it.	Lionel’s	tough	line	was	reinforced	by	Anselm,	who
arrived	in	Vienna	on	April	10	to	clear	out	his	father’s	Augean	stables,	a	task
which	he	performed	with	a	marked	lack	of	filial	compassion.	Faced	with	a
request	to	render	yet	more	assistance	to	Arnstein	&	Eskeles	(as	well	as	another

--- Page 618 ---
Vienna	house,	Heinrich	&	Wertheimer),	Anselm
immediately	informed	my	father	in	the	clearest	possible	terms,	that	on	the	basis
of	all	my	powers	as	representative	of	the	[five]	houses	I	forbade	any	further
financial	sacrifice	.	.	.	no	matter	what	the	consequences	might	be	for	the
commerce	and	the	situation	of	this	place,	and	added	that	I	would	leave
immediately	in	protest	if	any	attempt	was	made	here	to	insist	on	this	.	.	.	It	is,
believe	me	dear	Uncle,	a	fatal	role	which	I	am	taking	on	here	.	.	.	they	will	curse
me	as	my	father’s	evil	angel	.	.	.	He	is	unfortunately	in	such	a	state	of	moral
collapse	and	so	bowed	down	by	the	situation,	that	for	him	to	remain	here	any
longer	could	only	have	a	negative	effect	on	his	health	.	.	.	It	would	have	been
much	better	if	he	had	left	Vienna	three	months	ago.
The	recriminations	between	father	and	son	over	the	financial	morass	into	which
the	Vienna	house	had	sunk	in	many	ways	marked	the	end	of	the	dominance	of
the	second	generation.	In	a	sense,	this	was	the	1848	revolution	
within
	the	house
of	Rothschild.
The	reality	was,	however,	that	the	London	house	was	not	the	lender	of	last
resort	at	all.	For	the	ability	of	New	Court	to	assist	Paris	and	Vienna	depended
heavily	on	the	ability	of	the	Rothschilds’	agents	in	America	to	remit	funds	to
New	Court.	The	year	1848	was	in	many	ways	the	decisive	test	of	Belmont’s
agency:	had	the	system	failed,	the	Rothschilds	would	have	been	seriously	at	risk.
Beginning	in	the	summer	of	1847,	they	had	nervously	followed	Belmont	as	he
committed	substantial	resources	to	speculating	in	tobacco	and	to	financing	the
American	war	against	
Mexico	which	had	broken	out	in	May	the	previous	year.
As	late	as	February	1848	James	sanctioned	his	decision	to	advance	the	US
government	a	substantial	sum	against	treasury	bills	to	help	pay	the	$15	million
indemnity	accorded	to	Mexico	for	the	territory	ceded	by	the	US	under	the	Treaty
of	Guadalupe	Hidalgo.	Typically,	the	Rothschilds	had	a	man	in	Mexico	at	the
same	time—Lionel	Davidson—who	for	several	years	had	been	importing
Rothschild	mercury	from	Spain	to	sell	to	Mexican	silver	mines;	he	too	took	a
hand	in	the	indemnity	payment.	Scharfenberg	in	Cuba	and	Hanau	in	New
Orleans	had	also	made	large	advances	on	tobacco	and	cotton	respectively	on	the
eve	of	the	European	crisis.	These	were	big	commitments:	as	James	himself
commented	uncomfortably,	“We	are	too	much	in	the	hands	of	these	people.”
Indeed,	there	is	no	better	testimony	to	Belmont’s	importance	at	this	time	than	the
frantic	letters	he	was	sent	from	London	and	Paris,	berating	him	for	his
involvement	with	the	Mexican	indemnity	and	accusing	him	of	having	exceeded

--- Page 619 ---
his	powers.	Finally,	at	the	end	of	1848,	a	Rothschild—Alphonse—was	sent	to
New	York	in	person,	as	if	to	bring	the	errant	agent	to	heel.
This	had	its	effect.	Rightly	fearing	that	Alphonse	had	been	sent	out	to	replace
him,	Belmont	hastily	despatched	large	consignments	of	silver	to	London.	These
were	to	prove	one	of	the	most	important	stabilising	influences	on	the	European
financial	situation	in	1848,	and	without	them	Lionel	would	have	been	hard-
pressed	to	assist	his	relatives	on	the	continent.	But	Belmont	wished	it	to	be
understood	that	he	was	bestowing	favours,	not	following	orders.	As	Alphonse
reported,	after	a	frosty	reception	in	New	York,	Belmont’s	role	was	a	“singular”
one:	“It	is	a	position	which	is	at	once	semi-dependent	and	semi-independent,
simultaneously	that	of	an	agent	and	a	correspondent.”	The	long-discussed	plan	to
replace	him	with	a	family	member	foundered	once	again	in	the	face	of
Belmont’s	doggedness	and	the	reluctance	of	any	of	the	younger	Rothschilds	to
settle	permanently	in	the	US.	In	the	short	term,	Belmont	packed	Alphonse	off	to
New	Orleans	and	carried	on	as	before,	resuming	the	payment	of	the	Mexican
indemnity.
The	second	factor	in	the	Rothschilds’	survival	was	the	relaxation	of	monetary
policy	by	the	European	central	banks,	which	undoubtedly	helped	to	end	the
collapse	of	security	prices.	The	Bank	of	England	had	set	the	precedent	by
suspending	its	gold	reserve	rule	in	October	1847;	however,	it	proved	less	than
easy	to	persuade	its	counterparts	on	the	continent	to	do	likewise.	In	Frankfurt,	of
course,	there	was	no	central	bank,	and	it	took	time	to	persuade	the	town	Senate
to	create	some	emergency	credit	facilities.	In	Paris,	the	situation	was	better,	once
the	fear	had	receded	that	the	republic	would	use	the	Banque	de	France	as	a	milch
cow	for	forced	loans.	In	addition	to	suspending	convertibility,	the	government
set	up	a	nationwide	complex	of	
comptoirs	d’escompte
	and	
magasins	généraux
	to
supply	firms	with	new	sources	of	liquidity,	although	these	proved	ephemeral	and
the	enduring	effect	of	the	revolution	was	to	increase	the	power	of	the	Banque	de
France	by	obliterating	the	provincial	banks	of	issue.	In	Vienna,	the	National
Bank	imposed	a	ban	on	exports	of	silver	and	gold	and,	in	May,	suspended
convertibility.	In	each	case,	of	course,	the	danger	existed	that	issues	of	paper
money	might	be	excessive,	and	Anselm	was	not	alone	in	fearing	a	slide	into
inflation	in	Central	Europe	(no	one	had	forgotten	the	assignats).	Here	again	the
Rothschilds’	access	to	supplies	of	silver	from	America	and	England	proved
crucial,	for	it	enabled	them	to	replenish	the	reserves	of	the	continental	central
banks.	As	early	as	April	the	Banque	de	France	was	placing	orders	for	
large	silver
purchases	through	New	Court.	The	prospect	of	a	similar	deal	gave	Anselm	an

--- Page 620 ---
important	source	of	leverage	in	the	discussions	over	his	father’s	huge
accumulation	of	due	bills	at	the	Bank,	which	he	succeeded	in	prolonging	for	two
years.	Even	so,	it	was	necessary	for	him	to	issue	a	bald	threat	to	clinch	the	deal:
“Either	the	prolongation	of	the	bills	or	the	fall	of	the	houses	of	Eskeles	and
Wertheimer,	which	would	not	only	have	as	a	consequence	the	fall	of	many	other
houses	here	and	in	the	provinces,	but	would	also	seriously	compromise	the
portfolio	of	the	National	Bank	itself.”
This	was	one	of	the	critical	moments	in	the	rescue	of	the	Vienna	house.	For
the	Paris	house,	however,	of	greater	importance	were	the	deals	struck	over
government	finance.	Government	loans	contracted	in	1847	were	among	the
Rothschilds’	most	burdensome	obligations.	The	only	way	to	reduce	these	was	by
hard	bargaining.	Thus,	in	parallel	with	his	negotiations	with	the	National	Bank,
Anselm	sought	to	arrange	a	modest	rescheduling	of	his	father’s	obligations	to	the
Austrian	Treasury.	In	Frankfurt	too	Mayer	Carl	sought	to	strike	deals	with
Kassel	and	the	Confederation.	Even	in	Naples	an	agreement	had	to	be	reached
with	the	government	regarding	payment	of	the	interest	due	on	Neapolitan	rentes.
The	Rothschilds	were	most	vulnerable	in	Paris,	however,	where	James	had	been
left	holding	around	170	million	francs	of	3	per	cent	rentes,	now	valued	at
roughly	half	what	he	had	agreed	to	pay	the	government	for	them.	Rather	than
swallow	this	heavy	loss	by	selling	(as	it	has	sometimes	been	claimed	he	did),
James	sought	to	extricate	himself	from	the	1847	commitments;	and	the	way	he
did	so	is	a	case	study	in	negotiation	from	a	position	of	weakness.
It	was	far	from	easy.	On	February	24,	as	we	have	seen,	James	paid	a	visit	to
the	Ministry	of	Finance,	possibly	to	get	the	new	regime	to	pay	the	interest	falling
due	on	the	Greek	bonds	guaranteed	by	the	previous	regime	(which	normally	he
himself	would	have	paid).	There	was	a	quid	pro	quo:	the	next	day,	it	was
announced	that	he	was	to	make	an	ostentatiously	large	donation	of	50,000	francs
to	the	fund	for	those	injured	in	the	street	fighting	and	that	he	intended	to	“offer
his	co-operation	to	such	a	good	and	honest	Revolution.”	He	then	presented
himself	at	the	prefecture	of	police	on	February	26.	When	Caussidière	detailed
the	allegations	that	he	was	smuggling	money	out	of	Paris	in	preparation	for	his
own	flight	abroad,	James	categorically	denied	them,	steering	a	clever	course
between	admitting	to	bankruptcy	and	implying	that	he	had	millions	at	his
disposal:
People	think	I	am	made	of	money,	but	I	only	have	paper.	My	fortune	and	my
cash	are	converted	into	securities,	which	at	the	moment	have	no	value.	I	am	far
from	wishing	to	declare	bankruptcy,	and	if	I	must	die,	then	I	am	resolved	to	do

--- Page 621 ---
so;	but	I	would	regard	flight	as	cowardice.	I	have	even	written	to	my	family,	to
ask	them	to	send	me	funds	so	that	I	can	meet	my	engagements;	and	if	you	like,
he	added,	I	will	introduce	you	to	my	nephew	tomorrow.
Once	again	money	changed	hands:	Caussidière	requested	that	James	open	a
credit	for	a	print	works	to	keep	its	150	workers	in	employment,	a	request	granted
when	James	returned	the	next	day	with	Lionel	(Caussidière	was	handed	2,000
francs	“to	be	distributed	as	[he]	intended”).	This	was	small	beer	to	James,	but	the
stakes	were	raised	higher	in	early	April	when	the	government	unexpectedly
demanded	
500,000	francs,	the	balance	of	a	mortgage	loan	arranged	before	the
revolution	with	Louis	Philippe.	At	the	same	time,	he	was	reminded	of	the	large
sum	owed	by	his	railway	company	to	the	government.
James	responded	to	these	demands	with	a	mixture	of	threats	and
blandishments,	as	Charlotte	recorded	in	her	diary:
The	failure	of	the	House	of	Rothschild	would	be	a	terrible	disaster	for	France.	It
would	be	to	kill	the	goose	that	lays	the	golden	egg	with	a	single	blow	and	to
abandon	forever	the	chance	of	[its	performing]	any	public	or	private	services.
The	government	could	not	auction	off	the	family’s	golden	houses:	Ferrières
could	not	be	sold;	the	hôtel	Florentin	stands	empty	and	could	not	be	let	under	the
present	circumstances.	If,	however,	they	spare	our	uncle’s	life—by	which	I	mean
only	his	financial	life—then	he	could	be	of	service	not	only	to	the	state,	but	to
individual	members	of	the	government	.	.	.	In	England,	they	say,	no	one	is
grateful	for	favours	received.	We	certainly	do	not	expect	that,	but	I	think	one	can
count	on	recognition	for	favours	still	to	be	granted.	Our	uncle	has	just	granted
favours	to	M.	de	Lamartine,	M.	Caussidière	and	Crémieux.
At	the	same	time,	if	the	immediate	repayment	of	the	money	owed	by	the	Nord
was	demanded,	“thirty	or	forty	thousand	workers	would	be	deprived	of	the
employment	the	government	had	guaranteed	them	and	the	expenditures	of	the
national	Treasury	on	unemployment	would	increase	considerably.”
Not	everyone	was	convinced	by	James’s	protestations	that	his	“financial	life”
was	at	stake.	In	a	good	illustration	of	the	way	“socialism”	made	itself	felt	even	in
the	financial	sector,	the	clerks	at	de	Rothschild	Frères	protested	when	James
justified	cutting	their	salaries	on	the	grounds	that	“my	business	has	been
reduced.”	“Yes,	you	have	lost	nothing,”	declared	one	of	them.	“You	are	richer
than	anyone	and	we	won’t	[accept	a	pay	cut].”	But,	if	nothing	else,	James	had
bought	himself	valuable	time.	By	the	time	the	government’s	commission	had
decided	in	favour	of	the	state’s	repurchasing	the	concessions	from	the

--- Page 622 ---
companies,	it	was	the	third	week	of	May.	Just	over	a	month	later,	the	political
position	in	Paris	was	transformed	by	the	brutal	suppression	of	the	“June	days”
(22-28	June)—an	apparently	spontaneous	eruption	of	working	class	rioting—by
troops	under	the	command	of	General	Eugène	Cavaignac.
Marx’s	bitter	diagnosis	of	the	“June	days”	and	their	aftermath	was	that	the
“bourgeoisie”	as	a	whole	had	thrown	in	its	lot	with	authoritarianism	and
militarism	in	order	to	crush	the	proletarian	revolution.	In	contrast	with	the
revolution	of	1830,	however,	the	Rothschilds	did	little,	if	anything,	to	promote
the	restoration	of	“order”	(just	as	they	did	little	to	promote	resolutions	of	the
various	diplomatic	conflicts	of	the	revolution).	They	did	no	more	than	welcome
—cautiously—the	arrival	of	Cavaignac.	Indeed,	they	positively	avoided	making
a	direct	contribution	to	his	efforts:	James	packed	Alphonse	off	to	Frankfurt	to
ensure	that	he	did	not	take	part	in	the	fighting,	which	he	would	have	done	had	he
stayed.	The	military	restoration	of	“order”	thus	had	the	aspect	of	a	
deus	ex
machina
.	It	was	the	same	story	in	Naples,	where	Ferdinand	dispensed	with
parliament	and	successfully	reclaimed	Sicily	in	August;	and	in	Vienna,	where
Windischgrätz	bombarded	the	revolutionaries	into	surrender	in	early	November.
Still,	the	Rothschilds	knew	how	to	swim	with	the	turning	political	tide.	For	the
reconstruction	of	the	republican	regime	under	Cavaignac	provided	the	perfect
opportunity	not	only	to	bury	the	railway	nationalisation	project	but	to	reschedule
the	Nord’s	debts	to	the	state	and	to	resolve	the	question	of	the	1847	loan.	It	was
later	alleged	that	the	Paris	house	had	been	“refloated”	by	the	government	at	this
juncture—to	the	great	ire	of	James’s	grandchildren,	who	took	pains	to	deny	that
their	bank	had	ever	relied	on	state	intervention.	The	word	“refloated”	is
misleading	but—like	the	related	accusations	levelled	at	the	government	of
excessive	generosity—not	without	an	element	of	truth.	In	essence,	James	had
adopted	the	stance	which	Balzac	had	years	before	anticipated:	that	of	the
indispensable	debtor	who	owes	his	creditors	so	much	that	they	dare	not	let	him
fail.	Fearing	that	he	might	otherwise	be	unable	to	resume	his	payments	to	the
Treasury,	the	government	felt	obliged	to	renegotiate	the	terms	of	the	1847	loan.
The	decision	was	understandable:	in	threatening	them	with	the	death	of	the
“golden	goose,”	James	was	implicitly	threatening	the	collapse	of	the	French
financial	system.	As	Mérimée	suggested	at	the	time,	the	government’s	financial
position	was	“diabolical”;	the	collapse	of	de	Rothschild	Frères	would	have	made
matters	worse	still.
The	easier	alternative	was	to	work	in	partnership	with	“the	Baron.”	Thus,
when	Lionel	visited	Paris	in	July,	he	found	James	closeted—as	of	old—with	the

--- Page 623 ---
Finance	Minister.	He	was	“now	a	great	favourite	and	as	there	is	no	other	Banker
or	person	with	money	or	disposition	to	come	forward,	he	is	naturally	very	much
looked	up	to.”	Yet	the	expedient	adopted	by	the	new	Finance	Minister
Goudchaux—to	convert	the	3	per	cent	bonds	of	1847	into	5	per	cents—was
probably	over-generous,	in	that	it	effectively	turned	a	loss	of	25	million	francs
into	a	profit	of	11	million.	The	fact	that	Goudchaux	was	a	Jew	(like	another
moderate	republican	linked	to	James,	Crémieux)	merely	added	to	the	radical
suspicion	of	a	conspiracy	to	prop	up	Rothschild.	In	truth,	James	had	probably
exaggerated	the	danger	of	his	own	financial	collapse	in	order	to	minimise	his
losses	on	the	1847	loan.	Far	from	being	in	cahoots	with	Goudchaux,	the
Rothschilds	regarded	him	as	“not	a	practical	man	by	any	means”	who	knew	“no
more	about	the	bourse	than	the	man	of	[
sic
]	the	moon.”
The	Rothschilds’	position	had	in	fact	been	stabilising	for	at	least	a	month
before	the	“June	days.”	As	early	as	the	last	week	of	May,	it	was	possible	for
Charlotte	to	affirm	her	belief	in	“in	a	bright,	European	and	Rothschildian
future.”	When	Nat	went	to	Frankfurt	in	June,	he	found	Amschel	still	furious	with
Lionel,	but	financially	quite	secure,	with	a	balance	of	at	least	26	million	gulden
and	a	bullion	reserve	of	£400,000.	Indeed,	the	English	Rothschilds	were
surprised	to	find	Amschel	selling	on	to	the	Vienna	house	silver	he	had	received
from	the	London	house	only	weeks	before.	Another	sign	of	normalisation	was
the	resumption	in	earnest	of	negotiations	for	a	new	mercury	contract	in	Spain
(where	Baring	was	mounting	a	serious	challenge).	This	coincided	with	excited
reports	from	Davidson	about	new	discoveries	of	silver	in	Chile	and	Peru	which
were	likely	to	boost	the	mercury	market.	By	August	matters	were	sufficiently	far
advanced	for	James,	Lionel	and	Anselm—now	the	family’s	dominant	triumvirate
—to	meet	at	Dunkirk	to	take	stock	of	the	combined	accounts.	It	was	not	until
some	time	later,	however,	that	it	was	apparent	to	those	
outside
	the	family	that	the
Rothschilds	had	survived.	When	the	radical	
Tocsin	des	Travailleurs
	devoted	a
leader	to	the	subject	in	August,	its	tone	was	ironical;	yet	a	
genuine	undertone	of
admiration	is	unmistakable	in	its	appeal	to	James	to	lend	his	miraculous	financial
powers	to	the	cause	of	the	republic.
You	are	a	wonder	sir.	In	spite	of	his	legal	majority,	Louis-Philippe	has
fallen,	Guizot	has	disappeared,	the	constitutional	monarchy	and
parliamentary	methods	have	gone	by	the	board;	you,	however,	are
unmoved!	.	.	.	Where	are	Arago	and	Lamartine?	They	are	finished,	but
you	have	survived.	The	banking	princes	are	going	into	liquidation	and
their	offices	are	closed.	The	great	captains	of	industry	and	the	railway

--- Page 624 ---
companies	totter.	Shareholders,	merchants,	manufacturers,	and	bankers
are	ruined	
en	masse
;	big	men	and	little	men	are	alike	overwhelmed;	you
alone	among	all	these	ruins	remain	unaffected.	Although	your	House	felt
the	first	violence	of	the	shock	in	Paris,	although	the	effects	of	revolution
pursue	you	from	Naples	to	Vienna	and	Berlin,	you	remain	unmoved	in
the	face	of	a	movement	that	has	affected	the	whole	of	Europe.	Wealth
fades	away,	glory	is	humbled,	and	dominion	is	broken,	but	the	Jew,	the
monarch	of	our	time,	has	held	his	throne[.]	[B]ut	that	is	not	all.	You
might	have	fled	from	this	country	where,	in	the	language	of	the	Bible,	the
mountains	skip	about	like	rams.	You	remain,	announcing	that	your	power
is	independent	of	the	ancient	dynasties,	and	you	courageously	extend
your	hand	to	the	young	republics.	Undismayed	you	adhere	to	France	.	.	.
You	are	more	than	a	statesman,	you	are	the	symbol	of	credit.	Is	it	not
time	that	the	bank,	that	powerful	instrument	of	the	middle	classes,	should
assist	in	the	fulfilment	of	the	people’s	destinies?	Without	becoming	a
Minister,	you	remain	simply	the	great[est]	man	of	business	of	our	time.
Your	work	might	be	more	extensive,	your	fame—and	you	are	not
indifferent	to	fame—might	be	even	more	glorious.	After	gaining	the
crown	of	money	you	would	achieve	[your]	apotheosis.	Does	that	not
appeal	to	you?	Confess	that	it	would	be	a	worthy	occasion	if	one	day	the
French	Republic	should	offer	you	a	place	in	the	Pantheon!
Even	this	struck	some	as	premature:	as	late	as	November	rumours	were	still
circulating	that	James	intended	to	go	into	liquidation.	But	the	Rothschilds	had
indeed	survived.	We	now	know	how	they	did	it.	We	can	also	see	why,	at	the
time,	their	escape	seemed	well-nigh	miraculous.
	
Tranquillity	and	Order
Another	important	difference	between	1830	and	1848	was	the	Rothschilds’	lack
of	diplomatic	influence.	Though	they	fretted	constantly	about	the	danger	of	a
European	war,	for	most	of	1848	they	were	far	too	preoccupied	with	their	own
financial	problems	to	play	their	familiar	part	in	great	power	politics.	When	the
Austrian	government	asked	Salomon	to	help	“end	the	Italian	difficulties”	by
sending	“a	member	of	his	House	in	order	to	start	negotiations	in	this	sense	in	the
name	of	the	Austrian	Government,”	the	younger	Rothschilds	were	reluctant	to
become	involved.	As	Mayer	Carl	put	it:
[I]n	my	opinion	we	should	not	mix	in	politics,	because,	however	things	turn

--- Page 625 ---
[out],	it	is	harlequin	who	gets	the	kicks	and	harlequin,	that	is	us.	
Also	I	don’t
believe	that	Lombardy	is	going	to	pay	anything	to	Austria.	The	Italian	cause	has
aroused	too	much	sympathy	for	any	solution	not	to	be	inimical	to	Austria’s
interests.	Also	everybody	[would]	say	that	we	make	God	knows	how	much	out
of	this.	People	are	used	to	assuming	that	Rothschild	does	nothing	without	getting
something.
When	Radetzky	“gave	a	good	licking”	to	the	Piedmontese	armies	at	Custozza,
Anselm	and	his	cousins	were	delighted,	but	poorly	informed	about	Austrian
diplomatic	intentions,	assuming	that	Austria	would	still	relinquish	most	of	her
Italian	territory.	Although	James	came	to	realise	that	Bastide,	the	new	French
Foreign	Minister,	was	unenthusiastic	about	Northern	Italian	unification,	and	that
therefore	Palmerston’s	efforts	in	that	direction	were	unlikely	to	succeed,	his
nephews	remained	convinced	for	some	time	that	Lombardy	and	Venetia	would
be	able	to	buy	their	independence:	it	was,	wrote	Anthony,	“only	an	affair	of
money.”	Their	sources	of	information	in	Germany	were	not	much	better.	Mayer
Carl,	for	example,	seems	to	have	expected	Frederick	William	IV	to	accept	the
German	crown	when	it	was	offered	by	the	Frankfurt	parliament	in	March,	and—
even	more	improbably—that	this	would	help	Austria	and	Prussia	“pull	together.”
(In	fact,	he	contemptuously	spurned	what	he	called	a	“diadem	moulded	out	of
the	dirt	and	dregs	of	revolution,	disloyalty	and	treason.”)	It	was	not	until	late
February	1849	that	Anselm	began	to	receive	the	kind	of	inside	information	about
Austrian	diplomacy	which	his	father	had	for	so	long	taken	for	granted.	He	was
soon	following	in	Salomon’s	footsteps	by	siding	enthusiastically	with
Schwarzenberg	in	the	second	war	with	Piedmont—a	tendency	which	his	father’s
return	in	April	may	have	reinforced.
In	practice,	of	course,	the	Rothschilds	could	not	hope	to	exercise	political
influence	as	long	as	they	themselves	were	financially	weak.	The	traditional
leverage	exerted	by	the	Rothschilds	had,	after	all,	been	based	primarily	on	the
granting	of	loans.	But	throughout	1848	the	British	Rothschilds	used	their	new
predominance	over	the	continental	houses	to	veto	numerous	suggestions	of	loans
to	the	post-revolutionary	regimes	in	Austria,	Hungary,	Rome,	Lombardy,
Prussia,	Baden	and	elsewhere.	(Incredibly,	Salomon	seems	to	have	suggested
lending	money	to	allow	the	Hungarians	to	buy	guns	in	England—this	even	as	he
was	lamenting	the	collapse	of	the	Habsburg	Empire!)	It	was	not	until	late
September	that	anything	resembling	“business	as	usual”	was	contemplated,
though	talk	of	a	loan	to	Austria	proved	premature.	The	trouble	was	that	the
revolution	refused	to	lie	down	and	die.	No	sooner	had	“red	republicanism”	been

--- Page 626 ---
defeated	in	Paris,	Vienna	and	Berlin	than	it	burst	forth	again	in	Italy.	No	sooner
had	it	been	defeated	in	Italy	than	it	had	a	last	lease	of	life	in	South	Germany.
As	long	as	political	uncertainty	remained,	the	Rothschilds	held	back.	When
the	Austrian	government	approached	Anselm	with	a	60	million	gulden	loan
proposal	in	March,	he	was	cautious,	dismissing	it	as	“a	great	nonsense”	and	“a
stupid	project.”	The	following	month,	when	James	was	asked	by	the	city	of	Paris
to	make	a	25	million	franc	loan,	he	“refused	it	&	said	it	three	times,	he	did	not
wish	to	do	any	business.”	This	hesitation	reflected	above	all	the	difficulty	of
deciding	what	was	to	be	done	with	the	Vienna	house	which,	even	after	Anselm’s
skilful	salvage	operation,	still	owed	the	Frankfurt	house	the	immense	sum	of
£1.7	million,	as	well	as	a	smaller	sum	to	the	Paris	house.	It	was	not	until	the
summer,	after	a	succession	of	meetings	
between	the	principal	partners	(including
a	full	“congress”	at	Frankfurt	in	the	spring),	that	the	decision	was	taken	to
preserve	the	Vienna	house	by	writing	most	of	this	money	off.	The	extent	to
which	the	London	partners	wished	to	restrain	their	uncles	is	obvious	from
Alphonse’s	comment	that	the	“true	goal”	of	the	“congress”	would	be:
to	modify	the	bases	of	our	house,	and,	with	respect	to	the	London	house,	to	free
them	reciprocally	from	a	solidarity	incompatible	with	the	political	activities	and
the	ardent	business	spirit	of	the	first	generation.	Our	good	uncle	[Amschel]
cannot	bear	the	reduction	of	our	fortune,	and,	in	his	desire	to	re-establish	it	on	its
old	basis,	would	not	hesitate	to	plunge	us	into	hazardous	enterprises.
It	was	symptomatic	of	the	mistrust	engendered	by	the	crisis	of	1848	that	the
London	partners	began	to	distinguish	between	letters	they	would	allow	their
uncles	to	see	and	those	they	kept	to	themselves.	Considering	that	the	circulated
private	letters	had	up	until	this	point	been	the	very	life	blood	of	the	partnership
this	was	a	revolutionary	suggestion—though	it	is	impossible	to	be	sure	how	far
the	London	partners	went	in	this	direction	since	so	much	of	their	correspondence
has	been	lost	or	destroyed.
Two	additional	factors	tended	to	diminish	Rothschild	political	influence.
Firstly,	their	relations	with	Palmerston	remained	as	tenuous	as	ever.	Charlotte
denounced	Palmerston’s	policy	in	1848	as	“laughable,”	and	it	seems	reasonable
to	assume	that	Lionel	shared	his	wife’s	view;	there	was	evidently	little
communication	between	the	Rothschilds	and	Palmerston	at	this	time.	In	Nat’s
view,	“any	change	in	the	Foreign	Affairs	will	be	an	improvement	on	Ld.
P[almerston],”	a	view	“heartily”	endorsed	by	his	uncle	James.	To	Betty,
Palmerston	was	“the	bad	genie,	breathing	fire	everywhere	and	sheltering	behind

--- Page 627 ---
political	puppets	whom	he	knows	how	to	station	at	the	front	door.”	Indeed,	the
Rothschilds	seem	to	have	based	their	assessments	of	British	policy	more	on
defence	estimates	than	on	first-hand	ministerial	intelligence—a	reflection
perhaps	of	Lionel’s	preoccupation	at	this	time	with	the	question	of	Jewish
representation	in	Parliament.	Secondly,	they	miscalculated	the	political	future	in
France.	James	overestimated	the	durability	of	“respectable,	moderate”
republicanism.	Assuming	that	Cavaignac	and	his	fellow	general	Nicolas
Changarnier	(who	combined	command	of	the	National	Guard	with	the	military
governorship	of	Paris)	would	remain	the	key	figures	of	the	new	regime,	he	set	to
work	to	ingratiate	himself	with	them.	Meetings	with	Cavaignac	and	other
ministers	to	discuss	French	foreign	policy	became	frequent.	“Our	little	friend”
Changarnier	was	invited	to	hunt	at	Ferrières	and	was	a	frequent	Rothschild
dinner	guest.	So	close	did	relations	become	that	the	Austrian	ambassador	in
Paris	was	able	to	report	gossip	about	Changarnier’s	“sentiment	de	coeur”	for
Betty.	As	it	turned	out,	James	was	backing	a	loser,	though	his	reason	for	doing	so
is	understandable.	For	the	alternative	to	the	generals	was	Louis	Napoleon
Bonaparte,	the	nephew	of	the	former	Emperor.
Throughout	the	nineteenth	century,	no	figure	of	political	importance	was
viewed	by	the	Rothschilds	with	more	suspicion,	not	to	say	contempt,	than	Louis
Napoleon.	This	was	partly	because	of	his	disreputable	past—the	escapades	at
Boulogne	in	1836	and	Strasbourg	in	1840,	the	idiosyncratic	books,	the	English
mistress—and	the	
louche	lifestyle	which	he	never	wholly	abandoned.	In	April
1849,	for	example,	Anthony	reported	that	his	aunt	and	uncle	were	“disgusted
with	L.	N.	They	say	he	gets	drunk	every	night	&	God	knows	what	else	he	does.”
His	relationship	with	Mrs	Howard	was	also	a	subject	for	sardonic	comment:	in
Anthony’s	words,	all	Louis	Napoleon	wanted	was	“plenty	[of	money]	so	that	he
can	roger	comfortably	&	get	drunk	when	he	likes.”	James	regarded	him	as	“a
stupid	ass”	but,	pragmatic	as	ever,	was	prepared	to	put	his	personal	aversion	to
one	side	and	sup	with	him	as	early	as	January	16—just	eighteen	days	after	he
had	been	sworn	in	as	President	of	the	Republic.	“I	could	not	refuse	his
invitation,”	he	explained	to	his	nephews	apologetically.	Indeed,	he	seems	to	have
taken	the	precaution	of	lending	Louis	Napoleon	20,000	francs	shortly	before	his
election.	Nevertheless,	this	was	to	be	no	repeat	of	the	regime	change	of	1830,
when	James	and	Louis	Philippe	had	translated	a	private,	financial	relationship
into	a	public,	political	one	almost	overnight.	As	soon	as	Louis	Napoleon	had
access	to	public	funds,	James	cut	off	his	credit,	ordering	Anthony	“to	give
Napoleon	no	more	money,	he	has	no	credit	with	us	.	.	.	I	promised	him	20,000

--- Page 628 ---
francs	before	his	budget	was	passed	but	now	he	is	getting	money	from	the
government,	so	I	don’t	want	to	throw	away	our	money	and	so	I	won’t	give	him	a
penny	more.”
His	wife	felt	an	even	deeper	dislike,	partly	based	on	a	lingering	loyalty	to	the
deposed	Orléanist	royal	family.	Disraeli	recalled	Betty	inveighing	against
Napoleon	“whom	she	hated”	to	Macaulay,	who	sought	vainly	to	persuade	her
that	he	might	be	Augustus	to	his	uncle’s	Julius	Caesar.	She	was	unimpressed:
France	was	“floundering	between	a	nobody	and	a	head	garotted	by	a	subversive,
useless	minority.”	If	Cavaignac	won	it	would	be	“a	disaster”	as	he	had	shown
“neither	candour	nor	capacity	in	power.”	But	if	Louis	Napoleon	won	it	would	be
“a	humiliation”	as	he	was	“that	ridiculous	flag	from	a	wonderful	past	existence,
a	political	nothing	who	has	no	other	value	than	as	a	negative	power,	a	polished
socialist	hiding	roughness	beneath	the	pretence	of	pleasant	politesse.”	France’s
“love	affair”	with	him,	she	predicted,	“could	be	just	like	a	happy	love	affair	at
the	beginning	of	a	novel;	lovers	in	this	case	always	end	up	hating	each	other,	or
by	being	violently	separated.”	His	victory	was	a	“distress	signal	around	which
diverse	and	opposing	opinions	rally	to	protest	against	the	country’s	upper	crust.”
From	the	outset	she	assumed	that	“a	parody	of	the	Empire”	would	be	restored.
Until	April	1849	she	stayed	away	from	the	President’s	receptions.
What	concerned	the	Rothschilds	much	more,	however,	was	the	possibility
that,	like	his	uncle	before	him,	Louis	Napoleon	would	pursue	an	expansionist
foreign	policy	which	might	plunge	Europe	once	again	into	a	general	war.	From
the	moment	that	Bonaparte’s	star	began	to	wax	in	mid-1848,	when	he	was
elected	to	the	Chamber	of	Deputies,	it	was	this	which	coloured	the	Rothschilds’
judgement.	Identifying	him	as	the	ally	of	the	“friends	of	disorder	and	unrest,”
they	assumed	that	his	popularity	presaged	war.	As	James	put	it,	Louis	Napoleon
would
spend	a	nice	bit	of	money	to	ensure	that	they	have	him	as	President	and	in	my
opinion—I	who	have	never	believed	in	war—the	situation	looks	blacker	now,
because	the	people	now	have	to	.	.	.	make	war.	At	the	bourse	everyone	was
horribly	black,	because	they	say	that	the	working	class	will	supposedly	back
him,	because	he	is	a	socialist	and	draws	his	support	from	the	most	common
people	.	.	.	I	am	trying	to	liquidate.
Although	they	came	to	revise	this	assessment	in	the	succeeding	months,	as	the
likelihood	of	his	victory	in	the	presidential	election	grew,	they	were	far	from
delighted	at	this	prospect,	regarding	Cavaignac	as	“decidedly	better.”	Both

--- Page 629 ---
camps	directly	approached	James	to	ask	for	support,	but	he	told	them	that	“not
being	French	he	was	withholding	all	influence	in	this	serious	matter	and	would
not	support	either	of	the	two	candidates,	that	he	was	waiting	for	the	country	to
make	its	decision	and	would	not	oppose	to	whichever	president	was	preferred	by
the	majority.”	Privately,	he	expected	Louis	Napoleon	to	defeat	Cavaignac.	But
he	found	the	new	President	“dull	and	with	no	charisma	whatever,”	despite	his
flattering	request	that	James	should	“visit	him	often	and	eat	with	him	in	the
morning.”	In	the	immediate	aftermath	of	Bonaparte’s	victory	in	December,	he
and	Betty	nervously	anticipated	a	return	to	the	“June	days,”	and	even	the
outbreak	of	war	between	France	and	Prussia.
Such	fears	were	only	increased	by	the	assumption—which	can	be	detected	as
early	as	January	1849—that	Louis	Napoleon	would	“not	rest	till	he	has	made
himself	Emperor,	&	that	the	votes	of	the	Army	and	Peasantry	combined	will	be
enough	to	secure	his	success.”	James	had	no	doubt	that	this	would	be	“a	great
mistake.”	Throughout	the	first	months	of	1849	he	watched	with	anxiety	for	signs
of	a	“forward”	French	foreign	policy	which	might	reinforce	such	pretensions.	In
particular,	the	continuing	instability	of	the	situation	in	Italy	seemed	to	invite
some	kind	of	French	intervention.	In	James’s	words,	“This	question	is	the	one
which	interests	us	the	most:	whether	[or	not]	we	will	have	peace.”	Every	flicker
of	unrest	in	Paris	seemed	to	increase	the	likelihood	of	a	gamble	on	war	by	the
new	government.	“It	will	end	with	war,”	predicted	James	on	June	9.	“We	are	in
the	hands	of	God.	We	have	[not	only]	Asiatic	cholera	[but	also]	political	and
financial	cholera	.	.	.	I	do	not	believe	rentes	will	go	up.”
The	realisation	that	Napoleon	intended	to	intervene	in	Italian	affairs	on	the
side	of	the	Pope—who	had	been	forced	to	flee	Rome	in	November—rather	than
the	Roman	republic	therefore	came	as	a	welcome	relief,	even	if	Anthony	could
not	at	first	see	“how	they	can	enter	&	put	the	Pope	on	the	throne	if	they	have	a
Republic	here.”	In	fact,	prolonged	debates	on	the	subject	meant	that	this	ended
up	being	the	last	of	the	foreign	interventions	against	republicanism	which	finally
brought	the	revolutionary	period	to	an	end.	The	first	blow	was	dealt	in	March	by
the	second,	decisive	Austrian	victory	over	Piedmont,	which	was	followed	by	the
occupation	of	republican	Tuscany	in	May.	In	April	it	was	the	turn	once	again	of
the	Frankfurt	Rothschilds	to	pack	up	their	valuables	as	a	last	wave	of	popular
unrest	swept	through	South	Germany,	only	to	be	crushed	by	joint	action	between
Prussia,	Saxony	and	Hanover.	As	before,	the	Rothschilds	could	do	little	more
than	stand	on	the	sidelines	cheering.	Anselm	enthusiastically	welcomed	the
Russian	intervention	in	Hungary,	conscious	that	Windischgrätz	alone	could	not

--- Page 630 ---
win.
Only	when	the	military	defeat	of	the	various	enclaves	of	revolution	was	sure
did	the	Rothschilds	seriously	think	about	resuming	their	traditional	loans
business.	On	July	4,	Anselm	began	to	talk	more	positively	about	the	Austrian
loan,	as	well	as	urging	the	Paris	house	to	provide	the	Russian	army	in	Hungary
with	financial	assistance	via	the	Paris	house.	He	also	began	to	involve	himself	in
the	efforts	to	stabilise	the	Austrian	exchange	rate,	which	war	and	the	suspension
of	silver	
convertibility	had	seriously	weakened.	By	mid	September,	a	small
Austrian	loan	had	been	arranged	in	the	form	of	a	71	million	gulden	issue	of
treasury	bills;	although	most	of	these	were	absorbed	by	the	Vienna	market,
around	22	million	were	taken	up	and	sold	by	Amschel	in	Frankfurt.
Naturally,	these	transactions	implied	an	explicit	commitment	to	the	forces	of
monarchical	reaction,	something	which	caused	a	degree	of	disquiet	to	members
of	the	family	in	France	and	London,	where	support	for	Hungary	was	widespread.
Betty	can	hardly	have	been	indifferent	to	the	bitter	sentiments	expressed	in
Heine’s	pro-Magyar	poem,	“Germany	in	October	1849,”	a	copy	of	which	he	sent
her.	But	Anselm	had	no	time	whatever	for	his	English	cousins’	“uneasy”
expressions	of	pro-Hungarian	feeling,	advising	“your	good	English	folks	[to]
stick	to	Ireland	&	its	Potato	crop,	&	keep	their	arguments	for	their	objects.”
Carl’s	suggestion	of	a	loan	to	the	Pope	could	also	be	seen	as	lending	sustenance
to	the	counter-revolution.	To	the	disappointed	revolutionaries	of	1848—not	least
Marx—the	moral	was	plain:	“Thus	we	find	that	every	tyrant	is	backed	by	a	Jew,
as	is	every	Pope	by	a	Jesuit.	In	truth,	the	cravings	of	the	oppressors	would	be
hopeless	and	the	practicability	of	war	out	of	the	question,	if	there	were	not	an
army	of	Jesuits	to	smother	thought	and	a	handful	of	Jews	to	ransack	pockets.”
It	was	misleading,	however,	to	portray	the	Rothschilds	as	the	financiers	of
reaction,	as	they	had	so	often	been	portrayed	in	the	past.	For	one	thing,	as	Lionel
reported	from	Wildbad	in	August,	the	revolution	had	made	erstwhile	liberals
more	conservative:	“The	Liberal	party	in	Germany	is	very	different	from	the
liberals	in	England.	All	persons	of	property	or	who	are	in	business	are	for	the	old
state	of	things.”	James’s	paramount	concern	was	to	resume	normal	business
activity—as	he	reminded	his	nephews	in	London,	he	was	“a	friend	of	business”
and	wanted	to	“keep	the	wheels	turning.”	Provided	international	stability	could
be	relied	upon,	he	was	relatively	uninterested	in	the	political	complexion	of	the
regimes	he	lent	to.	Before	it	was	confirmed	that	the	Pope	would	be	restored	with
French	support,	for	example,	James	was	perfectly	willing	to	do	business	with	the
Roman	Republic.	Indeed,	when	the	Republic’s	representative	approached	him

--- Page 631 ---
with	a	small	deposit	in	March	1849	to	ask	whether	he	“would	do	their	business,”
he	accepted	it	“as	I	am	[now]	a	Republican”—an	ironic	aside	from	a	man	who	at
other	times	referred	to	it	as	the	“accursed	republic.”	And	when	the	position	of
the	Papacy	was	restored	at	the	end	of	June,	James	informed	Carl	that	he	had	no
desire	to	“run	after”	the	Vatican	for	business.	Adolph	too	showed	little	respect
for	the	Pope—“His	old	Pious-ness	with	all	his	nonsense.”	Any	loan,	insisted	his
French	cousins,	was	to	be	conditional	on	the	granting	of	civil	rights	to	the
Roman	Jews.	For,	as	Anselm	said,
the	Pope	who	was	once	so	liberal	and	who	brought	Italy	such	misfortune	through
his	overhasty	reforms,	is	now	not	just	wholly	reactionary	but,	following	the
example	of	the	Popes	of	the	dark	Middle	Ages,	intolerant	in	the	highest	degree,	I
am	tempted	even	to	say	inhuman.	If	the	Pope	could	do	business	with	any	other
house,	he	would	certainly	break	with	us,	and	so	compliments	to	the	holy
gentlemen	are	not	in	order.
Nor	were	James	and	Lionel	willing	to	allow	the	Vienna	house	to	resume	its
traditional	role	as	a	more	or	less	unquestioning	supporter	of	the	Habsburg
regime.	In	
December,	both	expressed	strong	objections	to	Salomon’s	efforts	to
support	the	Austrian	currency	when	their	rivals	were	profiting	from	speculating
against	it.
This	political	neutrality	was	most	obvious	in	the	case	of	Piedmont,	which	had
been	among	the	principal	troublemakers	of	1848.	As	Anselm	pointed	out,	the
Piedmontese	indemnity	to	Austria	promised	to	generate	“a	beautiful	and	safe
piece	of	business”	in	the	form	of	a	loan	to	Piedmont	as	well	as	the	transfer	of
part	of	its	proceeds	to	Vienna.	Nat	was	initially	sceptical—as	Charlotte	observed,
the	“more	sensible”	members	of	the	family	had	not	forgotten	the	“fearful	period”
of	the	previous	year—but	even	he	could	see	the	appeal	of	such	a	transaction.	As
for	James,	his	interest	in	Piedmont	was	so	great	that	Anselm	feared	he	might
give	the	Turin	government	the	impression	of	“excessive	keenness.”	This
underestimated	James’s	skill	as	a	negotiator.	He	had	begun	by	sounding	out	the
government	in	advance	of	the	peace	agreement	with	Austria,	though	without
committing	himself.	Then	he	hinted	at	a	deal	with	the	Italian	bankers	who	hoped
to	float	the	bonds	themselves	in	order	to	shut	out	rivals	from	Paris	and	Vienna.
In	September	he	went	in	person	to	Vienna	and	Milan	to	offer	an	advance	of	15
million	francs	on	the	Piedmontese	indemnity	due	to	the	Austrian	government.
Finally,	in	Turin,	he	succeeded	in	securing	control	of	more	than	half	the	76
million	franc	Piedmontese	loan,	leaving	just	8	million	to	the	Italian	bankers	and

--- Page 632 ---
the	rest	to	public	subscription.
This	was	not	just	because	he	wished	to	see	Austria	get	her	indemnity.	As	he
assured	a	young	and	ambitious	financier	named	Camillo	di	Cavour,	he	was	“very
anxious	to	have	dealings	with	this	country;	he	has	repeatedly	told	me	that	he
regards	Piedmont	as	established	on	a	much	sounder	basis	than	Austria.”	For	his
part,	Cavour	was	shocked	by	the	way	James	had	“bamboozled”	the	Piedmontese
Finance	Minister	Nigra.	Convinced	that	Piedmont	should	not	allow	herself	to
become	dependent	on	“this	cunning	old	rascal	Rothschild,”	Cavour	would	prove
a	formidable	obstacle	to	Rothschild	ambitions	in	Italy	in	the	future.
6
	But,	for	the
time	being,	James	appeared	to	have	established	an	important	foothold,	with	the
possibility—as	he	put	it—that	this	would	lead	to	a	financial	“marriage”	with
Italy	as	a	whole.	In	a	similar	way,	the	Frankfurt	house	made	approaches	at
around	the	same	time	to	German	states	like	Württemberg	and	Hanover	(where	a
liberal	ministry	under	Johann	Stüve	remained	in	power	until	November	1850),
though	these	were	rebuffed.
James’s	success	in	Turin	brought	to	an	end	over	a	year	of	immobility	induced
by	the	revolution.	Even	Lionel	and	his	brothers	were	now	ready	to	contemplate
new	business,	although	they	were	still	more	interested	in	revolutionless	Spain
and	America	than	in	Central	Europe.	Mercury,	cotton,	gold,	tobacco—even
Nicaraguan	canals	and	African	groundnuts—seemed	safer	fare	than	loans	to
politically	volatile	states.
In	Paris	itself	there	was	also	a	slight	relaxation	in	Rothschild	attitudes.	The
main	barometer	of	financial	opinion—the	price	of	rentes—points	to	a	growing
(though	not	unqualified)	confidence	in	the	presidential	regime	in	the	course	of
1849:	in	the	year	after	December	1848,	5	per	cents	rose	from	74	to	93,	and	with
them	Nat’s	spirits.	This	was	in	part	a	reflection	of	Napoleon’s	restrained	foreign
policy.	As	Nat	remarked	when	the	expedition	to	Rome	was	first	bruited,	“In
general	when	troops	begin	to	move	bondholders	are	frightened;	in	this	case	as	it
is	for	the	re-establishment	of	order,	perhaps	&	I	trust	it	will	produce	a	good
effect.”	The	return	of	
financial	confidence	also	reflected	a	growing	awareness
that	Louis	Napoleon	was	far	from	being	the	ally	of	the	radical	left.	Although	he
still	thought	the	President	“a	little	ugly	fellow,”	Nat	was	favourably	impressed
by	the	evidence	of	social	restoration	he	witnessed	one	evening	at	the	President’s
palace:	“The	ladies	were	beautifully	draped	in	jewellery	and	when	the	carriages
were	called	the	titles	were	
not
	omitted.”	“If	we	remain	
quiet
,”	he	added
hopefully,	“there	will	be	no	difference	between	the	republic	and	the	monarchy.”
This	was	over-optimistic:	in	strictly	financial	terms,	rentes	never	recovered	to

--- Page 633 ---
pre-war	revolutionary	levels	under	the	Republic,	suggesting	continued	doubt
about	the	stability	of	the	regime—witness	Anthony’s	alternate	warnings	that
Louis	Napoleon	would	go	the	way	of	Louis	Philippe	or	that	the	republicans
would	succumb	to	a	Bonapartist	coup.	Yet	there	was	confidence	enough	for	the
Rothschilds	to	raise	the	inevitable	subject	of	a	new	loan	to	France	herself.
There	were	also	the	first	signs	of	a	revival	of	the	railway	mania	of	the	1840s
(Léon	Faucher’s	appointment	as	Minister	for	Public	Works	was	especially
encouraging).	In	February	1849	the	Pereires	revealed	their	most	ambitious
scheme	to	date:	a	railway	to	link	Paris,	Lyon	and	Avignon,	which	would	then
fuse	with	the	line	from	Avignon	to	Marseille	(the	forerunner	of	the	Paris-Lyon-
Marseille	line).	The	aim	was	to	revive	the	system	on	which	the	Nord	had	been
based,	with	the	state	investing	147	million	francs	in	the	initial	construction	of
line	between	Paris	and	Lyon	and	guaranteeing	the	company	a	5	per	cent	return,
while	the	company	put	up	240	million	francs	to	operate	the	concession	for
ninety-nine	years.	In	fact,	it	would	seem	that	the	Pereires	were	now	seeking	to
emancipate	themselves	from	the	Rothschilds.	To	raise	the	money	for	the	new
company,	they	had	initially	approached	Delessert	and	through	him	Barings—a
first	hint	of	the	breach	which	lay	ahead.	James	was	well	aware	of	what	was
going	on	and	in	May	fired	his	first	shot	back	by	forcing	Isaac	Pereire	off	the
board	of	the	Nord.	No	one	should	think	“that	the	Pereires	are	[the	same	as]
Rothschild,”	he	told	Anthony.	“You	have	no	idea	what	scoundrels	these	little
fellows	are.	They	are	always	trying	to	exploit	our	name.”	But	“when	these
people	don’t	need	you,	they	give	you	a	kick	in	the	arse.”
In	a	symbolic	reassertion	of	his	position	as	railway	king,	James	had	made	a
point	of	appearing	alongside	Napoleon	and	Changarnier	when	a	new	stretch	of
the	Nord	line	was	opened	in	July.	In	November	he	sought	to	force	his	way	into
the	Paris-Lyon-Avignon	concession	negotiations,	buttonholing	Louis	Napoleon
on	the	subject	over	dinner	and	haggling	tenaciously	with	the	new	Finance
Minister	Achille	Fould	thereafter.	From	the	Pereires’	point	of	view,	however,	this
may	have	been	an	unwelcome	reminder	of	their	association	with	“Rothschild
Ier.”	There	was	fierce	opposition	to	their	plan,	which	one	critic	warned	would
lead	to	“a	vast	consortium	Pereire-Rothschild	dominating	the	country	from
Marseille	to	Dunkirk	and	from	Paris	to	Nantes,	controlling	the	coasts	of	the
Mediterranean,	those	of	the	Channel	and	almost	all	those	of	the	Atlantic,	master
of	the	French	isthmus.”	By	comparison,	the	more	modest	rival	proposal	put
forward	by	Talabot	and	Bartholony	to	link	Paris	and	Lyon	seemed	less
monopolistic.	There	was	similar	opposition	to	the	Pereire	plan	for	a	line	linking

--- Page 634 ---
Paris	and	Rennes	in	the	west,	which	they	hoped	to	link	to	their	Rive	Droite
terminus.	Still,	the	very	notion	that	he	was	striving	for	such	a	“railway
hegemony”	testified	to	the	extent	of	Rothschild	recovery.	As	James	put	it	in	a
letter	to	Anthony:	“Above	all,	it	is	good	that	people	realise	that	nothing	gets	off
the	
ground	without	us	and	when	we	demand	something,	then	it	is	a	case	of
giving	Rothschild	all	he	wants.”
Nothing	could	better	express	how	far	things	had	come	full	circle	than	this
renewed	self-confidence—except	perhaps	the	deeply	paradoxical	friendship
which	James	formed	in	1849	with	Alexander	Herzen.	As	one	of	the	founding
fathers	of	Russian	socialism—the	man	who	coined	the	phrase	“Land	and
Freedom”—Herzen	had	left	Russia	for	Paris	in	January	1847	and,	after	a	brief
trip	to	Italy,	returned	there	at	the	height	of	the	revolution	in	May	1848.	He	had
already	suffered	internal	exile	as	a	young	man	for	his	liberal	inclinations,	but	by
the	time	he	reached	Paris	his	views	had	moved	closer	to	those	of	revolutionary
socialists	like	Michael	Bakunin	and	Pierre-Joseph	Proudhon	(author	of	another
famous	aphorism	of	the	period,	
la	propriété,	c’est	la	vol
	).	Indeed,	Herzen
personally	financed	Proudhon’s	short-lived	journal	the	
Voix	du	Peuple
	to	the
tune	of	24,000	francs	while	the	latter	was	in	prison.	A	less	likely	person	to
become	a	favoured	Rothschild	client	would	be	hard	to	imagine.	The	fact	that	he
did	sheds	light	on	James’s	political	outlook,	and	perhaps	substantiates	Heine’s
earlier	assertion	that	he	was	at	heart	more	a	revolutionary	than	a	reactionary.
Though	born	illegitimate,	Herzen	had	inherited	a	substantial	fortune	from	his
aristocratic	father,	so	it	is	not	wholly	strange	that	the	Rothschilds	obliged	him
with	minor	banking	services	while	he	was	in	Italy	and	helped	him	invest	some
10,000	roubles	when	he	began	to	sell	off	his	Russian	property.	Herzen	later
recalled	how	he
made	the	acquaintance	of	Rothschild,	and	proposed	that	he	should	change	for	me
two	Moscow	Savings	Bank	bonds.	Business	then	was	not	flourishing,	of	course,
and	the	exchange	was	very	bad;	his	terms	were	not	good,	but	I	accepted	them	at
once,	and	had	the	satisfaction	of	seeing	a	faint	smile	of	compassion	on
Rothschild’s	lips—he	took	me	for	one	of	the	innumerable	princes	russes	who
had	run	into	debt	in	Paris	and	so	fell	to	calling	me	Monsieur	le	Comte	.	.	.	By
Rothschild’s	advice	I	bought	myself	some	American	shares,	a	few	French	ones
and	a	small	house	in	the	rue	Amsterdam	which	was	let	to	the	Havre	Hotel.
However,	when	the	Russian	government	sought	to	prevent	Herzen	raising	more
cash	by	mortgaging	his	mother’s	estate	at	Komostra,	less	orthodox	financial

--- Page 635 ---
assistance	was	called	for.	According	to	Herzen’s	own	account,	James	agreed	to
accept	a	bill	drawn	to	the	value	of	the	anticipated	mortgage	and,	when	the
Russian	authorities	refused	to	authorise	the	mortgage,	“grew	angry,	and	walked
about	the	room	saying:	‘No,	I	shan’t	allow	myself	to	be	trifled	with;	I	shall	bring
an	action	against	the	bank;	I	shall	demand	a	categorical	reply	from	the	Minister
of	Finance!’	”	Despite	receiving	warnings	about	his	new	client	from	the	Russian
ambassador	Count	Kiselev,	James	now	took	up	the	cudgels	on	Herzen’s	behalf,
drafting	a	stiff	letter	to	Gasser	in	St	Petersburg	which	threatened	the	Russian
government	with	legal	action	and	exposure	in	the	press.
Why	did	he	do	this?	He	can	have	had	no	illusions	about	Herzen’s	politics
because	he	had	been	given	“a	very	unfavourable	opinion”	of	him	by	Kiselev.	As
Herzen	put	it,	he	now	“surmise[d]	that	I	was	not	a	prince	russe.”	The	answer
seems	to	be	that	this	was	James’s	idea	of	a	joke.	Herzen	was	bemused	by	the	fact
that	James	“now	
took	to	addressing	me	as	Baron,”	and	even	more	bemused	when
he	refused	to	send	his	letter	to	Gasser	until	Herzen	increased	his	commission	on
the	transaction	from	half	a	per	cent	to	5.	This	“Mephistophelean	irony”	was
intended	to	test	Herzen,	who	refused	to	concede	more	than	another	half	per	cent:
When	half	an	hour	later	I	was	mounting	the	staircase	of	the	Winter	Palace	of
Finance	in	the	Rue	Laffitte,	the	rival	of	[Tsar]	Nicholas	was	coming	down	it.
.	.	.	His	Majesty,	smiling	graciously,	and	majestically	holding	out	his	own
august	hand	[said,]	“the	letter	has	been	signed	and	sent	off.	You’ll	see	how	they
will	come	round.	I’ll	teach	them	to	trifle	with	me.”
“Only	not	for	half	of	one	per	cent,”	I	thought,	and	I	felt	inclined	to	drop	on	my
knees,	and	to	offer	an	oath	of	allegiance	together	with	my	gratitude,	but	I
confined	myself	to	saying:	“If	you	feel	perfectly	certain	of	it,	allow	me	to	open
an	account,	if	only	for	half	of	the	whole	sum.”
“With	pleasure,”	answered	His	Majesty	the	Emperor,	and	went	his	way	into
the	Rue	Laffitte.
I	made	my	obeisance	.	.	.
Six	weeks	later	the	money	was	paid.	“From	that	time	forth,”	Herzen	recalled,
“I	was	on	the	best	of	terms	with	Rothschild.	He	liked	in	me	the	field	of	battle	on
which	he	had	beaten	Nicholas;	I	was	for	him	something	like	Marengo	or
Austerlitz,	and	he	several	times	recited	the	details	of	the	action	in	my	presence,
smiling	faintly,	but	magnanimously	sparing	his	vanquished	opponent.”	After
Herzen’s	expulsion	from	Paris	by	the	Bonapartist	regime,	James	continued	to
look	after	his	investments	in	American	and	other	bonds	(he	appears	in	the	1851

--- Page 636 ---
balance	sheet	owing	the	Paris	house	50,000	francs)	and	secured	him	permits	on
the	occasions	when	he	wished	to	visit	Paris.	He	also	recommended	him	to	the
London	house,	which	took	over	his	account	during	his	long	English	exile.
Herzen’s	transformation	from	insurgent	into	investor,	from	Rothschild	critic
into	Rothschild	client,	was	in	many	ways	emblematic	of	a	Europeanwide	change
of	mood—as	was	James’s	willingness	to	play	this	game	with	a	notorious
revolutionary.	Did	he	know	that	the	money	he	was	putting	in	Herzen’s	hands	was
being	used	to	finance	the	
Voix	du	Peuple
	?	If	he	did,	it	did	not	worry	him.	By	the
end	of	1849	the	revolution	was	over	and	the	more	rapid	and	sustained	pace	of
economic	development	henceforth	would	make	another	1848	much	less	likely.
For	his	part,	Herzen	saw	the	Rothschilds	as	personifying	this	shift	away	from
revolutionary	politics:
A	Rothschild	.	.	.	must	be	in	his	office	in	the	morning,	to	begin	the	cap	italisation
of	his	hundredth	million;	in	Brazil	there	is	plague,	and	war	in	Italy,	America	is
falling	to	pieces—everything	is	going	splendidly:	and,	if	someone	talks	to	him
then	of	man’s	exemption	from	responsibility	and	of	a	different	distribution	of
wealth,	of	course	he	does	not	listen.
Of	course,	for	a	new	era	lay	ahead:	of	conflicts	within	capitalism	rather	than
against	it,	and	between	states	rather	than	classes.

--- Page 637 ---
APPENDIX	1
Prices	and	Purchasing	Power
It	goes	without	saying	that	the	pound	sterling	was	worth	considerably	more	in
the	nineteenth	century	than	it	is	now,	mainly	because	of	the	inflation	which	has
been	a	perennial	feature	of	economic	life	since	the	1950s.	To	be	precise,	in	1800
the	pound	was	worth	around	25	times	what	it	is	worth	today.	Because	prices
tended	to	fall	during	the	nineteenth	century,	it	was	actually	worth	rather	more	in
1900:	close	to	fifty	times	as	much.	To	put	it	another	way,	the	purchasing	power
of	the	pound	has	fallen	in	the	past	century	by	around	98	per	cent:	in	1900	terms,
a	pound	today	is	worth	just	two	(decimal)	pennies.
To	try	to	make	historic	prices	intelligible	to	modern	readers,	historians	often
use	price	indices	to	calculate	what	a	sum	of	money	in	the	nineteenth	century
“means”	in	today’s	pounds.	This	is	easily	enough	done.	Let	us	take	as	an
example	Nathan	Mayer	Rothschild’s	total	wealth	at	the	time	of	his	death	in	1836,
which	I	estimate	at	around	£3.5	million	(see	chapter	11).	Following	the
conventional	system,	in	order	to	“convert”	that	figure	into	1995	pounds	to	allow
for	inflation	in	the	past	160	years,	all	that	the	reader	need	do	is	multiply	by	35.5,
giving	£124.25	million.
The	trouble	with	this	is	that	it	takes	no	account	of	the	dramatic	changes	in
economic	structure	and	relative	prices	which	have	happened	in	the	past	two
centuries.	The	cost	of	living	is	in	fact	a	fairly	meaningless	concept	over	time
because	the	
nature
	
of	living—that	is,	what	we	buy	with	money—has	changed	so
much	in	200	years.	As	James	de	Rothschild’s	biographer	rightly	says,	“A	fortune
.	.	.	is	essentially	the	power	to	purchase	so	many	acres	of	land,	to	employ	so
many	workers,	to	maintain	so	many	residences.”	Labour	was	much	cheaper	in
Europe	150	years	ago	than	it	is	now	(hence	the	huge	numbers	of	people
employed	as	servants)	and	taxes	were	negligible;	by	contrast,	many	of	the	things
now	considered	“necessaries”	were	expensive	luxuries	then,	if	they	existed	at	all.
The	long-run	price	indices	used	for	such	calculations	are	also	problematic
because	of	definitional	changes	(the	contents	of	the	supposedly	representative

--- Page 638 ---
basket	of	goods).
A	more	accurate	method	is	to	relate	a	money	value	to	current	gross	domestic
product	(GDP).	The	advantage	of	this	is	that	it	conveys	the	purchasing	power	of
a	given	sum	of	money—that	is,	it	gives	us	an	approximate	idea	of	how	much	of
the	year’s	total	economic	output	expressed	in	current	prices	it	could	buy.	As	a
proportion	of	UK	GDP	(£562	million	in	1836),	Nathan’s	total	wealth	at	death
was	equivalent	to	around	0.62	per	cent;	0.62	per	cent	of	the	United	Kingdom’s
1995	GDP	(£605,100	million)	is	£3,752	million—a	rather	larger	figure	than	the
one	given	by	the	crude	inflation	multiplier!
Another	way	of	conveying	the	significance	of	the	original	figure	is	to	relate	it
to	per	capita	GDP;	this	has	the	advantage	of	bringing	population	change	into	the
equation.	Thus	Nathan’s	£3.5	million	should	be	compared	with	a	per	capita	GDP
figure	for	the	same	period	of	£22—that	is,	Nathan	had	accumulated	around
160,000	times	per	capita	national	income;	160,000	times	the	1995	figure	for	per
capita	GDP	(
c
.	£10,430)	is	£1,669	million.	It	therefore	seems	clear	that	Nathan
was	by	the	standards	of	our	own	time	close	to	being	a	double	billionaire.
Even	this	measure	is	misleading,	however,	because	it	leaves	out	of	account	the
greater	inequality	of	the	nineteenth	century.	In	the	absence	of	a	progressively
redis	tributive	tax	system	and	a	welfare	state,	the	distribution	of	income	and	to	a
lesser	extent	of	wealth	was	far	more	unequal	than	in	our	own	day.	Very	rich
individuals	and	families	were	much	rarer	then	than	they	are	today,	and	the	gulf
which	separated	the	Rothschilds	from	nearly	everyone	else	in	Britain	was	vast.
As	late	as	1911-13,	no	fewer	than	87	per	cent	of	all	people	aged	twenty-five	and
over	in	England	and	Wales—16	million	people—had	total	wealth	of	less	than
£100,	compared	with	0.2	per	cent—32,000	people—who	had	wealth	of	more
than	£25,000.	The	Rothschilds	remained	at	the	very	pinnacle	of	this	wealthy
elite.	When	they	died	in	rapid	succession	in	1915,	1916	and	1917,	Nathan’s
grandsons	Natty,	Leo	and	Alfred	left	between	them	£6,494,000—almost	exactly
0.1	per	cent	of	the	total	capital	owned	by	all	adults	in	England	and	Wales.	To	put
it	another	way,	they	bequeathed	between	them	as	much	as	191,000	men	from	the
bottom	87.4	per	cent	of	the	population.
Were	the	Rothschilds	the	richest	family	in	the	nineteenth	century?
Rubinstein’s	figures	for	British	millionaires	do	not	give	precise	figures	for
fortunes	in	excess	of	£1	million	before	1858;	but	it	seems	unlikely	that	any	of
the	eleven	other	individuals	listed	for	the	period	1810-56	left	his	heirs	as	much
as	Nathan.	The	nearest	was	the	banker	William	J.	Denison,	who	left	£2.3	million
(including	real	estate	worth	£600,000)	in	1849.	It	was	not	until	1857	that

--- Page 639 ---
someone	left	more	than	Nathan	to	his	heirs—the	textile	warehouseman	and
Anglo-American	banker	James	Morrison,	who	left	between	£4	million	and	£6
million	at	his	death.	Nathan	not	only	died	richer	than	the	ironmaster	Richard
Crawshay	and	the	cotton	manufacturers	Robert	Peel	and	Richard	Arkwright;	he
also	left	more	than	the	Duke	of	Queensberry,	the	Duke	of	Sutherland	and	the
Duke	of	Cleveland.	Taking	the	period	1860-99	as	a	whole,	only	twenty-three
individuals	left	estates	worth	£1,800,000	or	more:	four	of	them	were	Rothschilds
(Nathan’s	sons	Lionel,	Anthony,	Nat	and	Mayer).	Although	individually	they
were	not	the	richest	men	of	their	time—Rubinstein	cites	two	individual	estates
greater	than	£3	million—no	other	family	could	match	their	collective	wealth.
Altogether	the	brothers	left	£8.4	million:	if	Nathan,	like	all	aristocratic
millionaires,	had	left	his	fortune	to	a	sole	heir,	Lionel	would	unquestionably
have	been	the	richest	man	in	Britain.	In	reality,	the	richest	man	in	the	world	was
probably	his	uncle	James	who,	at	his	death	in	1868,	was	reported	to	have	left	his
heirs	around	1,100	million	francs	(£44	million),	though	a	more	realistic	figure	is
probably	around	193	million	francs	(£7.7	million)	(see	volume	II).
From	1900	onwards,	the	English	Rothschilds	ceased	to	be	exceptional	as
millionaires.	Natty	was	the	richest	of	his	generation	of	English	Rothschilds
(leaving	£2.5	million);	but	at	least	forty-six	British	millionaires	in	the	period
1900-39	left	as	much	as	or	more	than	him.	It	should	be	noted	once	again,
however,	that	the	partners	in	the	French	and	Austrian	houses	were	significantly
richer	than	their	English	cousins.	In	1905	Edouard,	Gustave	and	Edmond	each
had	personal	shares	in	the	
combined	Rothschild	partnership	worth	£5.8	million.
Albert,	the	head	of	the	Vienna	house,	had	a	total	share	of	£5.9	million.	This
excludes	very	substantial	assets	outside	the	partnership.	Only	seven	of
Rubinstein’s	pre-1940	millionaires	could	match	this;	nine	if	the	South	African
“Randlords”	are	included.	Taken	together	at	its	peak	in	December	1899,	the
combined	capital	of	the	Rothschild	houses	was	£41.4	million,	divided	between
ten	partners.	Again,	this	takes	no	account	of	private	wealth,	much	of	it	held	in
the	form	of	expensive	art	collections	and	prime	real	estate.	It	is	almost
inconceivable	that	any	other	family	could	match	this.
Nearly	a	hundred	years	on,	do	the	Rothschilds	have	a	modern	equivalent?	The
answer	is	no.	Not	even	the	Saudi	royal	family	has	a	comparable	share	of	the
world’s	resources	in	its	possession	today.	Nor	can	even	the	richest	businessman
in	the	world	claim	without	qualification	to	be	as	rich	in	relative	terms	as	Nathan
Rothschild	was	when	he	died	at	the	height	of	his	fortune.	At	the	time	of	writing,
Bill	Gates	(the	founder	of	the	computer	software	company	Microsoft)	has	an

--- Page 640 ---
estimated	personal	fortune	of	$36.4	billion	(£21.7	billion)	and	has	a	good	claim
to	be	the	richest	man	in	the	world.	If	we	relate	that	to	current	US	GDP	($7,487.6
billion),	we	find	that	Mr	Gates’s	wealth	is	equivalent	to	0.49	per	cent	of	US
GDP.	This	figure	is	less	than	Nathan’s	equivalent	figure	of	0.62	per	cent	of	UK
GDP	in	1836,	though	Mr	Gates	is	gaining	fast.	Only	if	we	relate	the	Gates
fortune	to	American	GDP	per	head	($27,730)	does	he	have	the	advantage	over
Nathan:	Gates’s	wealth	is	1.3	million	times	greater	than	American	per	capita
GDP,	whereas	Nathan’s	was	only	160,000	times	greater	than	British	per	capita
GDP.	The	difference,	however,	mainly	reflects	the	enormous	growth	in
population	since	the	early	nineteenth	century,	which	has	restrained	the	growth	of
American	per-capita	income.

--- Page 641 ---
APPENDIX	2
Exchange	Rates	and	Selected	Financial	Statistics
The	exchange	rates	between	currencies	in	late-eighteenth-	and	early-nineteenth-
century	Europe	varied	according	to	the	metal	content	of	coins,	and	conversion	of
one	currency	into	another	is	not	always	easy.	In	Frankfurt,	the	gulden	was	the
denomination	most	frequently	used,	though	sometimes	figures	were	given	in
terms	of	the	imperial	thaler	(Reichsthaler).	One	Reichsthaler	was	equal	to	around
1.79-1.89	gulden.	A	British	pound	sterling	was	equal	to	10.2-11.2	gulden.	After
the	return	of	the	pound	to	gold	convertibility,	it	strengthened	against	the	gulden
and	for	the	rest	of	the	century	the	exchange	rate	was	12	gulden	to	the	pound	(see
table	a).
However,	simple	conversion	of	gulden	into	pounds	can	be	misleading,	as	it
takes	no	account	of	differences	in	purchasing	power.	The	cost	of	living	was
generally	thought	to	be	higher	in	England,	and	especially	in	London,	than	on	the
continent,	but	the	benefits	of	colonisation	and	industrialisation	meant	that	around
this	time	certain	commodities	(for	example	cotton	goods)	were	becoming	much
cheaper	in	England.	For	this	reason,	I	have	converted	gulden	figures	into	pounds
in	the	text	only	where	some	sort	of	comparison	seems	helpful.
Table	a:	The	sterling	exchange	rate	of	the	Frankfurt	gulden,	1798-1836.
Source:	Rothschild	correspondence.
A	private	partnership	of	the	sort	formed	by	the	five	Rothschild	houses	was	under
no	obligation	in	the	period	covered	by	these	statistics	to	produce	balance	sheets

--- Page 642 ---
or	profit	and	loss	accounts.	The	profit	and	loss	accounts	for	N.	M.	Rothschild	&
Sons	are	based	on	summaries	(the	purpose	of	which	is	not	known)	which	begin
in	1829.	The	accounts	are	simple:	on	one	side	all	the	year’s	sales	of
commodities,	stocks	and	shares	are	listed;	on	the	other,	all	the	year’s	purchases
and	other	costs;	the	difference	is	recorded	as	the	annual	profit	or	loss.	Table	b
gives	the	“bottom	line”	data	and	also	figures	for	net	appropriations	(withdrawals
and	new	capital)	by	partners.
Nineteenth-century	banks	did	not	draw	up	balance	sheets	or	profit	and	loss
accounts	in	a	standardised	way,	so	comparisons	with	other	banks	for	which
figures	are	available	must	be	made	with	extreme	caution.
Table	b:	N.	M.	Rothschild	&	Sons:	profit	and	loss	accounts,	1829-1848	(£).
Sources:	RAL,	RFamFD/13F;	RFamFD/13E.

--- Page 643 ---
NOTES
The	endnotes	have	been	substantially	reduced	in	number	for	the	paperback
edition.	Scholars	seeking	detailed	references	should	consult	the	hardback
edition,	which	also	contains	a	complete	bibliography.
Introduction:Reality	and	Myth
1
	
Chekhov,	“Rothschild’s	Fiddle”—a	story	recommended	for	readers	who	wish
to	be	reminded	how	the	great	majority	of	nineteenth-century	Europeans	lived
their	lives:	unlike	the	Rothschilds,	in	wretched	poverty.
2
	
The	plot	centres	around	a	gathering	of	the	brothers	in	the	old	house	in	the
Judengasse	in	1822	and	Salomon’s	unsuccessful	bid	to	marry	his	only	daughter
(misnamed	Charlotte)	to	a	nobleman	(“the	Duke	of	Taunus”).	She	falls	for	James
instead.
3
	
For	the	sake	of	clarity,	I	refer	to	Mayer	Amschel	and	his	wife	as	the	first
generation,	their	sons	(and	daughters)	as	the	second	and	so	on.	A	family	tree	is
provided	at	the	end	of	the	book.
4
	
It	was	James’s	son	Alphonse	who	opposed	the	idea	of	preserving	the
documents	in	the	Baron	Carl	von	Rothschild	library	in	Frankfurt.	He	also
insisted	on	the	destruction	of	documents	relating	to	the	payment	of	French
reparations	in	1815,	fearful	that	they	might	one	day	be	used	to	impugn	the
patriotism	of	his	father.
5
	
The	French	papers	have	now	been	returned	to	the	family	and	are	housed	in	the
Rothschild	Archive	in	London.	It	is	hoped	that	the	Austrian	material	will	also	be
returned	in	due	course.
ONE	
“Our	Blessed	Father”:	Origins

--- Page 644 ---
1
	
Frankfurt	was	one	of	fifty-one	self-governing	towns	within	the	Holy	Roman
Empire	(which	also	comprised	94	kings	and	princes,	103	counts	and	41	church
prelates).
2
	
The	rule	was	relaxed	slightly	in	1790,	though	access	was	granted	only	to	a
single	promenade.
3
	
A	word	needs	to	be	said	about	the	spelling	of	Mayer	Amschel’s	name.	On	his
own	gravestone,	he	is	described	in	Hebrew	characters	as	“Mosche	Meir,	Sohn
Anschels,	genannt	Meyer	Amschel	Rothschild”	and	his	three	biographers	have
used	the	spelling	“Meyer.”	However,	in	the	course	of	his	life,	he	clearly	came	to
prefer	the	spelling	“Mayer.”	His	descendants	named	after	him	have	also	tended
to	prefer	this	spelling.	For	the	sake	of	simplicity	I	have	therefore	used	“Mayer”
throughout.
4
	
By	1785,	the	Prince’s	collection	was	sufficiently	large	to	need	a	twelve-volume
catalogue,	compiled	by	his	librarian	Wegener.	We	may	discount	the	apocryphal
story	that	Mayer	Amschel	was	actually	introduced	to	William	at	this	early	stage
by	a	general	named	von	Estorff,	as	well	as	the	fiction	that	Mayer	Amschel
impressed	the	Prince	with	his	skill	at	chess	(William	is	supposed	to	have	told
von	Estorff:	“You	did	not	recommend	a	fool	to	me”):	Hessen,	“	‘You	did	not
recommend	a	fool’.”
5
	
Mayer	Amschel	did	not	have	to	pay	the	difference	between	his	share	of	the
Hinterpfann	and	the	price	of	the	house	at	the	green	shield	all	at	once.	He	bought
the	house	in	two	halves,	in	Dec.	1783	and	Nov.	1785.	In	each	case,	as	was
customary,	a	third	was	paid	up	front,	the	rest	in	six	or	eight	half-yearly	sums.
6
	
The	house	was	preserved	more	or	less	as	Mayer	Amschel	had	known	it	until
1944.	After	his	widow’s	death,	it	had	gradually	fallen	into	disrepair	and	was
saved	from	the	fate	of	the	rest	of	the	Judengasse—compulsory	purchase	and
demolition—only	by	the	family’s	decision	in	the	1880s	to	preserve	it	as	a
historic	monument.	Along	with	its	neighbour	“at	the	golden	arch”	(with	which	it
shared	a	roof	as	well	as	a	
cellar)	it	was	completely	restored	and	opened	to	the
public.	It	also	housed	the	offices	of	two	Rothschild	charities.
7
	
In	the	generation	after	Mayer	Amschel,	Rothschild	first	names	underwent	a
confusing	process	of	transformation	according	to	the	national	milieu	in	which
his	sons	found	themselves.	Amschel	was	sometimes	known	as	Anselm,	Salomon
was	often	Salamon	or	even	Solomon,	Kalman	was	almost	always	Carl	after
around	1812;	and	Jakob	became	James	when	he	moved	to	Paris.	In	much	of	the

--- Page 645 ---
family’s	private	correspondence,	their	sisters	and	wives	tended	to	be	referred	to
by	their	
Judendeutsch
	names,	usually	in	a	diminutive	form,	though	Jettchen
became	“Aunt	Henrietta”	after	her	English	marriage.	For	the	sake	of	simplicity,	I
employ	the	most	frequently	used	forms	throughout:	Amschel,	Salomon,	Nathan,
Carl	and	James.
8
	
Fortunately,	no	one	was	killed,	as	the	entire	population	(including	the
Rothschilds)	had	fled.	Unfortunately,	as	Goethe’s	mother	wrote	to	her	son,	this
meant	that	“When	the	fire	started	nobody	could	get	into	the	locked	houses	and
there	were	no	Jews	there	to	put	out	the	fires.”
9
	
Jews	could	not	formally	obtain	the	freedom	of	the	City	of	London,	but	this
restriction	did	not	in	practice	prevent	them	from	doing	business	there.
10
	
A	typical	order	was	a	commission	“from	Messrs	Sichel	&	Hildesheim
Frankfort	a/m	to	be	forwarded	immediately	that	the	greatest	part	may	arrive	in
Aug.,	the	remaining	part	in	Sept.	to	Messrs	Wertheimer	&	Co.	Hamburg,	payable
3/4	of	the	amount	as	soon	as	the	goods	arrive	at	Hamburg,	the	remaining	1/4	on
arrival	of	the	goods	at	Frankfurt,	with	bills	on	London	at	2	1/2	month,	without
Discount.	Insurance	to	be	effected	by	N.	M.	Rothschild:	30	1/3	pieces	blk
velveretts	.	.	.	54	1/3	blk	velveteens	.	.	.	30	1/3	pieces	blue	velveretts	.	.	.	221	1/3
pieces	blue	velveteens	.	.	.	21	1/3	ps	plain	velveteens	.	.	.	42	1/3	ps	fancy
velveteens	.	.	.	42	1/3	plain	thicksetts	.	.	.	33	1/3	ps	fancy	cord	.	.	.	12	1/3	ps	blue
fancy	thicksetts	newest	patterns	.	.	.	30	1/3	pieces	white	quilting	plain	and	satin
stripe	.	.	.	69	1/3	printed	thicksett	.	.	.	24	1/3	ps	yellow	printed	thicksetts	newest
patterns	.	.	.	24	1/4	ps	London	printed	quiltings,	the	newest	patterns	and	good
quality;	40	ps	swandowns	check	and	striped;	4	ps	toilinets	new	fashion;	27	1/3
ps.	printed	thicksett	same	as	patterns.”
11
	
Nathan	to	Salomon	Salomons	&	Co.,	Dec.	21,	1800:	“You’ll	remember	me
evry	[
sic
]	day	that	you	drink	it	as	you’ll	find	it	very	good	and	cheap.	Mr	Harman
gives	the	insurance	at	1pct.	lower	than	you	to	do.”
12
	
The	outbreak	of	war	obliged	Nathan	hastily	to	renew	his	passport	to	ensure
that	his	right	of	residence	in	England	was	not	called	into	question.
13
	
In	fact,	Nathan	burnt	his	fingers	again	with	an	ill-fated	shipment	of	goods	to
Russia,	which	appears	to	have	fallen	victim	to	the	Napoleonic	invasion.
14
	
At	the	time,	this	now	famous	address	was	one	of	five	three-storey	houses	in	a
prosperous	professional	neighbourhood.	Nathan’s	neighbours	included	a	surgeon

--- Page 646 ---
and	an	insurance	broker.
TWO	
The	Elector’s	Treasure
1
	
Because	cash	was	scarce	in	Hessen	between	the	bi-annual	fairs,	it	would	have
depressed	the	price	of	the	English	bills	to	have	auctioned	them	for	cash.	For	this
reason,	the	brokers	bought	them	on	credit,	paying	the	War	Chest	at	a	later	date
when	the	markets	were	more	liquid.
2
	
In	addition	to	his	statutory	dues	and	a	payment	of	400	thalers	towards	the
fabric	of	the	Neustadt	church,	Mayer	Amschel	offered	to	pay	the	Jewish
community	as	much	as	the	richest	Kassel	Jew,	Oberhofagent	Moses	Joseph
Büding,	but	the	community	was	insistent	that	he	move	permanently	to	Kassel.	In
the	end,	no	use	was	made	of	the	residence	permit,	which	was	finally	made	out	in
Amschel’s	name,	and	after	1809	the	Rothschilds	stopped	paying	contributions	to
the	Kassel	community.	This	led	to	a	protracted	legal	wrangle	between	1815	and
1829	which	was	settled	only	when	Amschel	agreed	to	pay	the	community	a	fine
of	2,500	thalers.
3
	
William’s	officials	increasingly	favoured	the	purchase	of	bearer	bonds	because
they	were	regarded	as	legally	more	secure	than	personal	loans;	there	was	added
safety	in	being	one	of	a	number	of	investors;	they	were	more	liquid	than	other
forms	of	loan	and	they	were	a	relatively	anonymous	form	of	investment,	which
gave	little	away	about	the	total	wealth	of	the	Elector.
4
	
William’s	brother	was	at	that	time	Danish	Statthalter	of	Schleswig	and
Holstein,	and	it	was	to	his	seat,	Schloss	Gottorp,	that	William	initially	went.	In
April	1807,	he	moved	to	a	modest	house	at	Itzehoe.
5
	
This	second	flight	was	necessitated	when	Denmark	allied	herself	with	France,
following	the	British	seizure	of	the	Danish	fleet.
6
	
In	1812	the	princes’	debts	were	rescheduled	to	include	back	interest	at
£225,361,	of	which	the	Prince	of	Wales	owed	£140,000,	the	Duke	of	York
£66,667,	the	Duke	of	Clarence	£20,000.
7
	
Nathan	had	made	his	first	tentative	foray	into	the	gilts	market	in	June	1803.
8
	
On	one	occasion	the	sea	captain	to	whom	they	had	been	entrusted	threw	them

--- Page 647 ---
overboard	when	his	ship	was	searched.	In	the	spring	of	1812	James	was
entrusted	with	collecting	five	certificates	for	£189,550	in	London.	He	and	Carl,
whom	he	met	at	Dunkirk,	then	went	to	Paris,	from	whence	Carl	proceeded	to
Prague.	The	Elector	did	not	receive	the	certificates	until	May	20.	In	late	1812
Salomon	picked	up	a	further	certificate	of	£250,000.
9
	
The	total	assets	of	the	firm	were	in	excess	of	970,000	gulden,	70,000	of	which
were	bonds	of	various	kinds,	and	110,000	of	which	were	loans	of	other	sorts,
including	a	loan	to	William’s	son	of	10,000	gulden	and	a	bill	on	Prince	George
—the	Prince	Regent—of	127,784	gulden.
10
	
Virtually	all	the	190,000	gulden	(apart	from	sums	reserved	for	Carl’s	and
James’s	marriage	gifts)	went	to	his	wife	and	daughters	however.
11
	
According	to	legend,	the	school	originated	when	Mayer	Amschel	heard	a
poor	Jewish	boy	singing	in	the	street	in	Marburg:	he	persuaded	Geisenheimer	to
adopt	him	as	the	first	pupil	in	a	new	school.
THREE	
“The	Commanding	General”	(1813-1815)
1
	
In	the	eighteenth	century,	the	guinea	was	the	principal	gold	coin	used	in
Britain,	though	the	silver	shilling	(of	which	sixty-six	were	coined	from	the	troy
pound	of	silver)	was	regarded	as	the	monetary	standard.	In	1717	the	mint	price
was	set	at	21s.	=	1	guinea.	However,	at	this	time	the	Mint	switched	to	a	new
coin,	the	pound	sterling	(=	20s.),	and	the	price	of	gold	was	set	by	Newton	at	£3
17s.	10	1/2d.	This	proved	to	be	the	first	step	towards	the	gold	standard:	in	1774
silver	was	effectively	demoted	when	it	ceased	to	be	legal	tender	for	sums	in
excess	of	£25.
2
	
The	business	was	given	to	the	Bethmann	Brothers,	apparently	on	worse	terms
than	the	Rothschilds	had	offered—a	reflection	of	the	continuing	preference	in
Vienna	for	established	banks.
3
	
It	was	this	rally	which	increased	the	profit	margin	on	the	Prussian	subsidy	deal
from	zero	to	a	respectable	3	per	cent.
4
	
Herries	later	stated	that	the	total	sum	transferred	by	“a	single	and	confidential
agency”	in	1814	and	1815	was	£18	million.

--- Page 648 ---
5
	
The	bulletins	Nathan	received	have	not	been	preserved,	though	a	letter
confirming	the	news	from	a	Dutch	source	based	just	six	miles	from	the
battlefield	survives.
6
	
Characteristically,	Nathan,	who	had	intended	to	float	as	much	as	£3	million	of
these	bills,	blamed	Carl	for	the	Amsterdam	market’s	lack	of	interest.
7
	
Nathan	was	incensed	to	hear	that	James	had	suffered	a	riding	accident;	in	his
view,	to	be	riding	at	all	was	a	sign	of	dilettantism.
FOUR	
“A	Court	Always	Leads	to	Something”	(1816-
1825)
1
	
Punctuation	varies:	this	is	the	text	in	the	1986	Oxford	edition.	The	1930
Oxford	edition	has	“Jew	Rothschild,	and	his	fellow-Christian,	Baring”	but	this
seems	nonsensical.	Byron	clearly	intended	to	suggest	that	the	two	bankers	were
on	a	par,	despite	their	different	religions.
2
	
Of	the	700	million	francs,	some	138	million	was	to	be	spent	on	reconstructing
strategic	fortresses	around	France’s	borders.	Each	of	the	great	powers	was	to
receive	between	100	and	139	million	to	compensate	them	for	the	costs	of	the
Hundred	Days;	smaller	sums	went	to	the	other	states	in	the	anti-French	coalition.
In	addition,	France	had	to	pay	substantial	sums	to	private	claimants;	after
prolonged	wrangles,	these	amounted	to	240	million	francs.	The	peace	also
returned	French	borders	to	those	of	1790,	as	opposed	to	those	of	1792	which	the
1814	treaty	had	set.	It	should	be	noted	that	France	had	previously	imposed
indemnities	on	the	Netherlands,	Austria,	Prussia	and	Portugal,	but	the	sums
involved	had	been	smaller.
3
	
James	arranged	to	invest	£20,000	for	Dalberg	in	British	stocks	at	around	this
time.	A	short	time	later	he	and	Salomon	joined	Dalberg	in	a	small	speculation	in
French	rentes.
4
	
The	Amsterdam	bank	of	Hope	&	Co.	had	been	founded	by	the	Boston-born
Henry	Hope	and	the	Cor	nishman	John	Williams	in	the	1760s.	Laid	low	by	the
French	occupation	of	Holland,	it	had	effectively	been	taken	over	by	Baring
Brothers.	Labouchère	was	a	Hope	employee	who	married	a	Baring	and	later
became	a	Hope	partner.

--- Page 649 ---
5
	
Adolphe	d’Eichthal	was	the	grandson	of	the	Bavarian	court	banker	Aron	Elias
Seligmann;	he	changed	his	religion	and	name	and	moved	to	Paris	with	his	son
Louis.
6
	
It	was	at	this	time	that	the	Kassel	Jewish	community	took	Amschel	to	court	for
alleged	non-payment	of	residence	dues.
7
	
Baring	had	already	agreed	to	advance	165	million	francs	to	the	Allies	in	return
for	246	million	of	rentes	at	67;	the	problem	was	the	decision	by	the	Allies	at	Aix
to	accept	a	final	payment	of	100	million	in	the	form	of	132	million	of	rentes
which	Baring	rashly	agreed	to	buy	at	the	higher	price	of	74.
8
	
The	price	of	gold	was	£4	0s	6d	in	1819	compared	with	the	bullionists”	pre-war
target	of	£3	17s	101/2	d.
9
	
The	final	terms	were	that	5	per	cent	bonds	totalling	£5	million	would	be	sold	in
three	successive	tranches	with	the	price	rising	from	70	(£2.5	million)	to	72.5
(£1.25	million)	and	then	to	75	(£1.25	million).	£1	million	of	the	first	tranche	was
taken	by	the	Prussian	government	itself	at	Rother’s	suggestion.	Repayment	was
to	take	place	over	twenty-five	years.	Officially,	as	Ehrenberg	says,	there	was	no
additional	commission;	in	fact,	Nathan	got	his	4	per	cent,	though	this	was	“kept
secret”	to	defuse	criticism	in	Berlin.	In	addition,	the	Rothschilds	kept	at	least
£1.5	million	for	themselves,	netting	a	large	profit	when	the	price	rose	to	a	peak
of	83	in	September.	This	explains	why	the	brothers	wrote	in	such	affectionate
terms	to	Rother	after	the	contract	was	concluded:	Salomon	assured	him	that	he
and	Nathan	were	his	“heartfelt,	eternal	and	faithful	good	friends”;	it	is	unlikely
that	he	would	have	expressed	such	sentiments	if	he	had	been	forced	to	forgo	a
commission.
10
	
The	Rothschilds	had	no	difficulty	in	placing	the	greater	part	of	the	loan	with
the	major	Paris	and	Frankfurt	banks,	though	they	were	less	generous	to	their
rivals	in	Berlin.	The	bonds	rose	initially	to	83	in	Sept.	1818,	then	slipped	back	to
73.5	until	late	1819,	before	rising	steadily	again.	Rumours	of	a	new	loan	in	1820
seem	to	have	prompted	the	Rothschilds	to	sell	their	own	holdings,	but	these
proved	unfounded.	In	fact,	the	bonds	reached	par	(i.e.	100)	in	1824.
11
	
Isaac	Arnstein	and	Bernhard	Eskeles	were	descendants	of	Samson
Wertheimer,	court	banker	of	Charles	VI.	Arnstein’s	son	Nathan	married	Fanny
Itzig,	famed	for	her	Vienna	salon.
12
	
Ultimately	only	around	300,000	ducats	were	repaid.

--- Page 650 ---
13
	
The	problem	was	that	neither	her	son	by	Napoleon,	the	Duke	of	Reichstadt,
nor	her	two	children	by	her	second	husband,	Count	von	Neipperg,	stood	to
inherit	her	Italian	duchies,	which	were	to	pass	to	the	Duke	of	Lucca	after	her
death.
14
	
Salomon	initially	offered	to	underwrite	a	loan	of	42.8	million	gulden	at	an
effective	price	of	just	67.	When	this	was	refused	he	proposed	a	smaller	loan	of
just	12	million	gulden,	offering	to	pay	“1.5	per	cent	more	for	the	amount	decided
than	is	offered	by	any	other	firm.”	The	same	tactic	was	repeated	when	the	loan
was	put	out	to	tender;	now	Salomon	simply	offered	to	pay	0.5	per	cent	more	than
the	highest	bidder.	The	Austrian	government	wisely	waited,	and	in	April	1823
was	able	to	secure	significantly	improved	terms	from	a	Rothschild-led
consortium:	a	loan	of	36	million	gulden	was	issued	at	an	underwriting	price	of
82.
15
	
Metternich	suspected	that	this	initiative	had	the	backing	of	the	French
government,	or	at	least	that	part	of	it	which	was	against	intervention,	but	British
observers	believed	that	the	Rothschilds	were	“pacific”	for	reasons	of	their	own.
16
	
As	Finance	Minister	and	then	premier,	Villèle	had	succeeded	in	establishing	a
modicum	of	order	in	the	French	financial	system,	but	was	disliked	by	the	less
“circumspect”	Ultras,	especially	Chateaubriand.
17
	
Significantly,	no	Rothschild	was	sent	to	Madrid	and	the	negotiations	there
were	entrusted	to	agents,	first	Belin	and	then	Renevier.
18
	
In	1807	the	Portuguese	Crown	Prince	Joao	had	gone	to	Brazil	at	the	time	of
the	French	invasion.	In	1812,	when	the	French	were	driven	out,	he	refused	to
leave	Brazil	and	elevated	it	“to	the	dignity,	prominence	and	denomination	of	a
Kingdom”	equal	with	Portugal	following	his	mother’s	death	in	1816.	Six	years
later,	when	Joao	VI	returned	to	Portugal,	his	son	Pedro	became	Emperor	and	he
remained	as	such	when	Brazil’s	independence	was	recognised	in	August	1825.
When	João	died	the	following	year,	Pedro	in	turn	passed	the	Portuguese	throne
to	his	daughter	Maria,	though	this	arrangement	was	subsequently	challenged	by
Pedro’s	brother	Miguel.
19
	
Put	simply,	the	plan	drawn	up	by	Nathan	was	that	the	Rothschilds,	Barings
and	Laffitte	together	would	undertake	the	conversion	in	return	for	the	first	year’s
saving	which	resulted	from	it	(28	million	francs).	To	make	the	conversion
attractive,	Nathan	insisted	that	the	Banque	de	France	must	set	its	discount	rate	at
3	per	cent.

--- Page 651 ---
20
	
See	e.g.	James,	Paris,	to	Nathan,	London,	Jan.	28,	1825:	“The	Minister	said	to
me	today,	‘Mr	Rothschild,	you	have	the	reputation	of	a	man	who	has	been
selling	large	numbers	of	rentes.’	I	must	therefore	be	careful	not	to	antagonise	the
Government.	However,	I	think	that	on	Monday	or	Tuesday	when	the	King	is	due
to	make	his	speech	I	will	be	able	to	sell	[rentes]	at	a	better	rate	than	today	and	I
will	profit	from	the	situation	because	I	don’t	foresee	any	sizeable	rise.”
21
	
In	fact,	Nathan	intervened	to	support	the	rente	after	the	rejection	of	the
conversion	bill,	which	unleashed	a	wave	of	selling	in	Paris	and	London.
22
	
Of	twenty-six	foreign	government	loans	totalling	£52.4	million	which	had
been	made	between	1823	and	1826,	sixteen	were	in	default	within	a	few	years.
FIVE	
“Hue	and	Cry”	(1826-1829)
1
	
It	is	surprising	that	the	Rothschilds	could	still	fear	that	bills	endorsed	by	them
might	not	be	accepted.
2
	
See	illustration	10.vii	below.	The	title	is	a	pun:	“Exemplary	Knight”	literally,
but	also	“Knight	with	Samples.”
3
	
See	illustration	7.i	below.
4
	
The	origin	of	the	word	“Hep”	is	variously	explained:	as	an	acronym	of
“Hierosolyma	est	perdita,”	or	as	the	sound	of	bleating	goats,	alluding	to	the
Jews’	traditional	beards.	There	was	a	similar	backlash	against	emancipation	in
many	German	towns.
5
	
His	“Political	Georgics,”	a	pastiche	of	Dryden’s	Georgics,	appeared	in	
The
Times
,	March	18,	1828:	Macaulay	later	repeated	the	lines	in	a	letter	to	his	sister:
“	.	.	.	Oh	mysterious	two,	
Lords	of	our	fate,	the	Doctor	and	the	Jew,	
If	by	your	care	preferred	th’aspiring	clerk	[Herries]	
Quits	the	close	alley	for	the	breezy	park,	
.	.	.	And	you,	great	pair,	through	Windsor’s	shades	who	rove,	
The	Faun	and	Dryad	of	the	conscious	grove,	
All,	all,	inspire	me;—for	of	all	I	sing	
Doctor	and	Jew	and	Marchioness	and	King	.	.	.	

--- Page 652 ---
But	the	black	stream	beneath	runs	on	the	same	
Still	bawls	in	Wetherell’s	key,	still	stinks	like	Herries[’]	name.”
6
	
The	loan	was	intended	solely	to	enable	Brazil	to	maintain	interest	payments	on
her	existing	debt.	James	“admit[ted]	quite	frankly	that	in	two	years”	time	these
people	will	not	pay	anything”;	but	in	the	short	run	it	boosted	the	price	of
Brazilian	bonds.
7
	
The	loan	was	apparently	never	repaid,	so	Nathan	kept	the	jewels.
8
	
In	fact,	Amschel	provided	a	sumptuous	lunch,	to	which	a	number	of	leading
figures	in	the	Frankfurt	diplomatic	corps	were	also	invited.	The	
Augsburger
Zeitung
	reported	that	“the	stairs	leading	to	the	ban	quetting	room	were	laid	out
with	red	carpet,	and	decorated	with	garlands	of	flowers	and	plants	.	.	.	Several	of
the	most	distinguished	emissaries	to	the	German	Diet,	as	well	as	foreign
ministers	present	here,	enjoyed	this	guest	luncheon	prepared	with	no	expense
spared.”
9
	
The	
Courrier	Français
	also	reported	the	dinner,	humorously	explaining	the
absence	of	the	British	ambassador	as	follows:	“An	Englishman	was	asked	how	it
could	be	that	the	ambassador	of	his	nation	had	not	been	present	at	this
diplomatic	feast.	‘Because,’	he	replied,	‘England	has	no	need	of	money.’	”
SIX	
Amschel’s	Garden
1
	
Of	eight	German-Jewish	merchants	in	Manchester	in	1806,	Nathan	was	the
only	one	who	maintained	his	religious	affiliation.
2
	
In	1844	Nat	was	obliged	to	eat	“a	kosher	lunch	and	[felt]	very	sick	in
consequence.	I	shall	smoke	a	14	sou	Havana	to	relieve	my	stomach.”
3
	
Wilhelm	attended	the	synagogue	twice	daily	and	studied	the	Talmud	in	the
evening.	On	the	Orthodox	revival	in	Frankfurt.
4
	
The	most	common	
Schnorrer
	joke	has	Rothschild	complaining	about	the
Schnorrer
’s	tactics	only	to	be	asked,	“Are	you	trying	to	teach	me	schnorring?”
Another	favourite	has	the	
Schnorrer
	regarding	his	relative’s	regular	hand-out	as
inheritable	property.	Sometimes	the	
Schnorrer
	is	caught	out:	he	claims	to	play
the	bassoon,	but	Rothschild	has	one	in	a	cupboard	and	asks	him	to	play;	or	he

--- Page 653 ---
sees	Rothschild’s	daughters	playing	a	duet	and	decides	not	to	bother	schnorring:
the	Baron	has	clearly	fallen	on	hard	times	if	they	have	to	share	a	piano.
5
	
“So	young—and	already	a	Rothschild,”	says	one	
Schnorrer
	to	another	as	a
child	is	wheeled	past	in	a	sumptuous	perambulator	or	carriage.	Contemplating	a
lavish	Rothschild	gravestone,	the	
Schnorrer
	can	only	marvel:	“They	sure	know
how	to	live.”	There	are	numerous	jokes	in	this	vein.
6
	
An	important	element	in	the	Jewish	case,	stressed	by	the	Rothschilds,	was	that
a	payment	had	been	made	by	the	Jewish	community	for	their	rights,	to	finance
which	bonds	had	been	issued.	To	revoke	the	1811	agreement	would	therefore
require	this	money	to	be	refunded.
7
	
The	economic	restrictions	extended	the	duration	of	Jewish	apprenticeships	and
prohibited	Jews	from	the	trading	in	food	and	firewood.
8
	
Montefiore	had	retired	from	business	to	concentrate	on	philanthropy	and
Jewish	communal	matters.
9
	
Caroline’s	few	surviving	letters	to	Salomon	suggest	above	all	an	impatience
with	his	over-eagerness	to	please	Nathan	and	others.	Their	son	Anselm	became
the	main	focus	for	her	affections;	that	may	explain	the	relatively	cool
relationship	he	had	with	his	father.
10
	
Hannah	was	supposed	to	be	there	in	attendance	at	the	birth	of	her	first
grandchild;	but	she	was	irresistibly	attracted	by	the	wild	fluctuations	of	the
bourse	caused	by	the	revolution.	Despite	a	number	of	“specs,”	however,	she	had
to	confess	to	her	husband:	“You	will	see	me	back	without	having	made	a	great
deal	of	money.”	Three	years	later	her	son	wrote	expressing	the	hope	that	she	had
been	“a	great	Bull”	during	the	“enormous	rise	in	all	the	funds.”
SEVEN	
Barons
1
	
In	1836,	Betty	told	a	guest	who	admired	her	house:	“If	you	had	seen	the	hotel
of	M.	Solomon	Rothschild	(which	is	next	door),	you	would	think	our	house	was
only	the	stables	attached	to	it.”
2
	
Interestingly,	the	Rothschild	passion	for	horses	appears	to	have	begun	with	the
brothers’	wives.	With	the	exception	of	James,	the	brothers	regarded	horses

--- Page 654 ---
exclusively	as	a	means	of	getting	from	A	to	B,	and	were	baffled	when	James
began	riding	for	pleasure.
3
	
On	the	coat	of	arms	Salomon	initially	requested	the	following	arms:	“First
quarter,	or,	an	eagle	sable	surcharged	in	dexter	by	a	field	gules;	second	quarter,
gules,	a	leopard	passant	proper;	third	quarter,	a	lion	rampant;	fourth	quarter,
azure,	an	arm	bearing	five	arrows.	In	the	centre	of	the	coat	a	shield	gules.	Right
hand	supporter,	a	greyhound,	a	symbol	of	loyalty;	left	supporter,	a	stork,	a
symbol	of	piety	and	content.”	This	was	to	be	surmounted	by	a	seven-point	crown
and	a	lion	rampant.	This	design	was	substantially	modified	by	the	Vienna
heralds:	the	final	version	featured	only	the	eagle	and	the	hand	grasping	
four
arrows;	there	were	no	supporters,	and	the	shield	was	surmounted	by	a	helmet,	a
three-pointed	crown	and	another	eagle.	The	version	registered	by	Nathan	in	1818
was	slightly	different:	the	arms	consisted	of	“Azure	a	lion	passant	guardant
erminois	grasping	with	the	dexter	forepaw	five	arrows	the	pheons	downwards
or;	And	for	the	crest	on	a	wreath	of	the	colours	out	of	a	crown	vallery	gules	a
demi	lion	erminois	holding	between	the	paws	five	arrows	as	in	the	arms.”	The
motto,	“Concordia,	integritas,	industria,”	was	incorporated	later.
4
	
In	“The	Baths	of	Lucca,”	a	ball	at	Salomon’s	house	is	described:	“Such	stars
and	orders!	The	Order	of	the	Falcon,	the	Order	of	the	Golden	Fleece,	the	Order
of	the	Lion,	the	Order	of	the	Eagle—and	there	was	even	a	child,	I	assure	you,	a
tiny	tot,	that	wore	the	Order	of	the	Elephant.”	When	Macaulay	dined	with	“the
Jew”	(i.e.	Nathan)	he	“did	not	see	one	Peer,	or	one	star,	except	a	foreign	order	or
two,	which	I	generally	consider	as	an	intimation	to	look	to	my	pockets.”
5
	
It	is	worth	noting	that	Nathan’s	grandson	dropped	the	“de”	on	receiving	a
British	peerage,	a	usage	followed	by	his	descendants—hence	the	fact	that	there
are	“Rothschilds”	as	well	as	“de	Rothschilds”	today.
6
	
Other	paintings	in	Nathan’s	possession	were	gifts	from	government	clients,
like	the	portraits	of	Francis	I	of	Austria,	Frederick	William	III	of	Prussia,
William	I	of	Holland,	John	VI	of	Portugal	and	the	Empress	Alexandra	of	Russia
seen	by	Prince	Pückler.
7
	
The	Family	of	W.	N.	[sic]	Rothschild,	Consul	General	of	his	Austrian	Majesty
at	the	British	Court
	was	commissioned	to	mark	Nathan’s	appointment	as
Austrian	consul	general.	Hobday	was	paid	£1,000	for	the	work,	which	was
shown	at	the	Royal	Academy	in	1821	and	then	hung	for	a	time	at	Austrian
Consulate,	before	being	moved	to	Gunnersbury.	It	can	now	be	seen	in	the	main

--- Page 655 ---
hall	of	N.	M.	Rothschild	&	Sons	at	New	Court.
8
	
Hannah	also	found	the	atmosphere	less	tolerant	when	she	went	there	in	1841:
“[T]he	Place	is	too	orthodox	to	be	an	agreeable	residence	for	any	other	sect
beside	Protestant.	Bibles	and	other	religious	Books	are	placed	in	the	different
apartments	of	the	Hotel	we	are	in	but	the	Inhabitants	are	civil	and	attentive.”
EIGHT	
Sudden	Revolutions	(1830-1833)
1
	
The	utopian	socialist	Owen	had	known	the	Rothschilds	since	at	least	1818.
2
	
“Above	all	fill	his	purse,	O	king,
With	ample	funds	for	travelling,	
And	give	him	a	letter	of	credit	to	greet	
The	Rothschild	brothers	in	Rue	Lafitte.	
“Yes	a	letter	of	credit	for	a	million	or	two	
Of	golden	ducats	should	seen	him	through;	
And	Baron	de	Rothschild	will	say	of	him,	then,	
“This	elephant’s	surely	the	best	of	men!”	’
3
	
As	James	later	noted,	“regarding	Polignac,	I	had	been	forewarned	on	several
occasions	as	far	back	as	six	months	before.	However,	I	did	not	want	to	believe	it.
I	had	a	gut	feeling.”
4
	
Greville,	
Memoirs
,	vol.	I,	p.	279:	“Went	to	Esterhazy’s	ball;	talked	to	old
Rothschild	who	was	there	with	his	wife	and	a	dandy	little	Jew	son.	He	.	.	.
offered	to	give	me	a	letter	by	his	brother,	who	would	give	me	any	information	I
wanted,	squeezed	my	hand,	and	looked	like	what	he	is.”
5
	
Stendhal,	
Lucien	Leuwen
.	Leuwen	also	has	no	objection	to	his	son	leaving	the
family	firm	to	pursue	a	military	or	political	career,	something	James	would	never
have	countenanced.
6
	
Hannah,	Paris,	to	Nathan,	London,	Aug.	24,	1830:	“You	must	look	at	it	coolly,
dear	Rothschild.	It	will	blow	over.	Salomon	and	James	do	not	like	the	fall,	you
may	easily	suppose,	but	they	are	very	cool	and	not	frightened.	Our	attention	is	so
engrossed	with	the	funds	that	I	can	dwell	upon	nothing	else.”
7
	
According	to	Lionel,	Hottinguer	said:	“Our	credit	is	no	more	so	good,	and	this

--- Page 656 ---
last	six	months	we	have	lost	much	in	the	public	opinion;	we	shall	not	find	so
many	more	followers	when	we	wish	to	make	any	loans.”
8
	
The	Times
,	Aug.	4,	1836:	“This	contract	was	more	detrimental	in	proportion	to
his	subscribers	than	to	himself,	as	the	greater	part	was	distributed	among	them,
and	it	was	at	the	time	a	matter	of	severe	reproach	against	him	that	he	did	on	this
occasion	leave	his	friends	completely	in	the	lurch.	But	this	was	answered	by	the
remark	that	he	had	always	been	in	the	practice	of	dealing	liberally	with	his
subscribers	in	sharing	his	contracts	among	them,	and	that	the	revolution	which
followed	and	made	this	so	ruinous	an	operation	was	one	that	could	not	possibly
have	been	foreseen	by	him.”
9
	
Frederick	William	had	made	a	morganatic	marriage	to	Gertrud	Falkenstein,	the
divorced	wife	of	a	Prussian	lieutenant.	In	1831	he	elevated	her	to	the	rank	of
Countess	von	Schaumburg,	and	later	Princess	of	Hanau.	When	he	was	in
Frankfurt,	the	couple	and	their	five	children	regularly	“took	their	midday	meal
quite	
en	famille
	with	their	good	business	friend.”
10
	
On	July	17,	1832,	Thomas	Raikes	recorded	in	his	journal	that	a	Dutch	broker
had	asked	“Rothschild	yesterday	.	.	.	if	he	would	advance	money	on	stock;	the
old	Jew	refused	him,	saying,	‘In	these	times	I	shall	not	advance	money	to	any
one	
by	Got
;	who	knows	what	may	happen?	you	may	be	dead	tomorrow.	’	It	so
happened	that	the	poor	man	was	seized	with	the	cholera	that	very	evening,	and
the	next	morning	he	was	dead.”
NINE	
The	Chains	of	Peace
1
	
The	existing	links	between	the	House	of	Saxe-Coburg	and	the	Rothschilds
explain	why	the	marriage	of	“your	little	Queen”	to	Albert	prompted	a	message
of	congratulation	from	Salomon’s	son	Anselm	to	his	London	cousins.
2
	
Of	crucial	importance	was	the	French	government’s	unequivocal	commitment
to	the	two	protocols	of	January	1831,	and	its	refusal	to	accept	the	Belgian	offer
of	the	crown	to	Louis	Philippe’s	son	the	duc	de	Nemours,	or	to	support	Belgian
resistance	against	the	territorial	provisions	of	the	protocols.	Needless	to	say,	it
was	good	news	from	a	Rothschild	standpoint	that	Leopold	of	Saxe-Coburg
emerged	as	the	successful	candidate	for	the	Belgian	throne.

--- Page 657 ---
3
	
James	opposed	the	use	of	the	brusque	phrases	“evacuez	immédiatement
Bologne”	and	“evacuez	promptement	Bologne.”	“I	shall	ensure,”	he	told	his
brothers,	“that	the	offending	phrase	is	omitted.”	James’s	hope	that	the	Austrians
would	refer	the	matter	to	an	international	conference	in	Rome	was	fulfilled,	but
it	was	not	until	July	that	their	troops	were	withdrawn.	The	fact	that	Périer	did	not
make	withdrawal	a	
casus	belli
	was	therefore	significant.
4
	
Salomon	assured	the	Prussian	government	that	“he	had	the	honour	of	his
House	particularly	in	view,	as	he	attached	the	greatest	value	to	demonstrating	to
the	Royal	Government	of	Prussia	that	the	consolidation	of	its	public	credit,	and
the	fulfilment	of	the	assurances	which	his	House	had	given	in	this	matter,	were
of	more	importance	in	his	eyes	than	any	considerations	of	private	profit.”	This
proved	all	too	true,	despite	Nathan’s	decision	to	send	Anselm	to	Berlin	to	secure
modifications	to	the	deal.	In	essence,	the	£3,809,400	of	5	per	cent	bonds	still
outstanding	from	the	1818	loan	were	to	be	exchanged	for	4	per	cents	issued	to
the	same	amount	at	98	in	the	course	of	two	and	a	half	years	from	March	1830
until	September	1832.	As	James	realised	even	before	the	agreement	was
concluded,	the	issue	price	was	certainly	too	high	given	the	growing	political
uncertainty	in	France	and	the	commission	of	1.5	per	cent	too	low.	Interestingly,
however,	he	seems	to	have	regarded	it	as	preferable	that	the	Rothschilds
undertake	the	risk,	the	extent	of	which	he	quite	accurately	gauged:	“The	worst,
the	very	worst	is	that	we	stand	
to	lose	15	per	cent,	God	forbid,	which	amounts	to
£200,000	which	is	quite	liable	to	ruin	someone	[else].”
5
	
The	outstanding	£850,000	of	5	per	cents	were	finally	redeemed	in	1834.
6
	
The	money	was	earmarked	for	the	construction	of	fortresses	on	the	Franco-
German	border;	that	was	evidently	not	Metternich’s	purpose	in	borrowing	it.
7
	
The	5	per	cent	loan	was	initially	issued	at	94.	Altogether	11	million	francs
were	earmarked	for	the	payment	of	compensation	to	Turkey;	the	parallel	with	the
Belgian-Dutch	separation	is	striking.
TEN	
The	World’s	Bankers
1
	
The	cartoon	is	usually	dated	1848	or	1849	but	the	political	allusions	are	to	the
political	events	of	1840.

--- Page 658 ---
2
	
The	Royal	Exchange	(not	to	be	confused	with	the	Stock	Exchange	at	Capel
Court)	was	essentially	a	market	for	commercial	bills	and	foreign	exchange,
though	in	Nathan’s	time	bonds	began	to	be	traded	there	too.	On	the	ground	floor,
the	south-east	corner	was	formally	allocated	to	Jewish	traders,	behind	the
Spanish	and	Portuguese.
3
	
Among	other	things,	the	brothers	resolved	to	withdraw	their	deposits	at	New
Court	and	to	sell	their	holdings	of	the	1818	Prussian	loan.	They	also	agreed	to
ensure	that	they	had	between	them	sufficient	liquid	funds	to	make	available	the	9
million	gulden	of	French	reparations	deposited	with	them	by	the	German
Confederation,	and	to	circulate	monthly	balance	sheets	for	this	purpose.	It	is	not
clear	whether	the	agreement	was	acted	upon	or	whether	it	was	simply	intended
as	a	shot	across	Nathan’s	bows.
4
	
Anselm	immediately	became	entitled	to	a	fifteenth	of	the	profits,	though	he	did
not	formally	acquire	a	share	of	the	capital	until	1828,	when	a	million	gulden	was
invested	in	his	name	in	the	Paris	house.	His	grandmother	Gutle’s	inheritance
from	Mayer	Amschel	was	invested	in	the	Frankfurt	house,	but	she	had	no	status
as	a	partner	and	her	share	was	not	included	in	the	total	capital	for	accounting
purposes.
5
	
A	clause	was	added,	however,	which	stated	that	if	the	profits	of	the	Paris,
Frankfurt,	Naples	and	Vienna	houses	exceeded	those	of	the	London	house	to	the
point	that	22.5	per	cent	of	their	total	profits	exceeded	60	per	cent	of	the	London
house’s,	then	the	division	of	the	profits	would	revert	to	the	old	system	of	equal
shares	of	the	whole.
6
	
There	was	a	threat	to	give	Warburgs	priority	in	1848,	but	this	seems	not	to
have	been	carried	out.
7
	
Another	apocryphal	anecdote	has	the	roles	reversed,	with	a	wily	stockbroker
bursting	into	Nathan’s	house,	feigning	drunkenness,	overhearing	sensitive
information	and	rushing	back	to	the	exchange	to	make	a	killing.
8
	
In	the	1840s	the	
Railway	Times
	referred	to	the	“notorious	fact	that	in	all	loan
transactions	of	the	late	Mr	Rothschild,	
The	Times
	invariably,	aye	systematically,
came	in	for	a	share	of	the	pickings.”	Alsager’s	career	ended	disastrously:	he	left
the	paper	after	a	large	“inconsistency”	was	discovered	in	the	accounts,	and
committed	suicide	shortly	afterwards.

--- Page 659 ---
ELEVEN	
“Il	est	Mort”	(1836)
1
	
The	marriage	was	apparently	unconsummated,	for	reasons	which	can	easily	be
inferred.	“It	appears,”	commented	James	crudely,	“that	the	red	King	would	not
permit	him	to	spit	roast	the	bird	despite	the	fact	that	he	had	caught	it	in	his	net.”
Lionel	was	more	delicate:	“Till	now	there	is	not	much	to	relate	as	you	well	know
that	the	fright	has	generally	such	an	effect	upon	the	young	ladies	that	they	are
immediately	troubled	with	some	thing	that	pays	them	very	often	a	visit.	I	can
only	say	that	she	is	a	most	beautiful	person	in	every	respect.”	The	different
language	illustrates	nicely	the	difference	between	the	generations;	at	the	same
time,	the	fact	that	both	men	saw	fit	to	allude	to	the	subject	shows	how	few
secrets	there	were	between	members	of	the	family.
2
	
Powers	of	attorney	had	to	be	sent	to	allow	senior	clerks	to	act	in	the	absence	of
family	members—a	rare	if	not	unprecedented	circumstance	at	this	time.
3
	
“I	looked	about	me.	Every	minute	a	small	door	opened	and	one	Bourse	agent
after	another	came	in,	uttering	a	number	in	a	loud	voice;	Rothschild	going	on
reading,	muttered	without	raising	his	eyes:	“Yes—no—good—perhaps—enough
—”	and	the	number	walked	out.	There	were	various	gentlemen	in	the	room,
rank-and-file	capitalists,	members	of	the	National	Assembly,	two	or	three
exhausted	tourists	with	youthful	moustaches	and	elderly	cheeks,	those
everlasting	figures	who	drink—wine—at	watering-places	and	are	presented	at
courts,	the	feeble,	lymphatic	suckers	that	drain	the	sap	from	the	aristocratic
families,	and	shove	their	way	from	the	gaming	table	to	the	Bourse.	They	were	all
talking	together	in	undertones.	The	Jewish	autocrat	sat	calmly	at	his	table,
looking	through	papers	and	writing	something	on	them,	probably	millions,	or	at
least	hundreds	of	thousands.”
TWELVE	
Love	and	Debt
1
	
The	house	was	demolished	on	Mayer	Carl’s	death	in	1886	and	the	grounds
given	to	the	City	of	Frankfurt.
2
	
There	appears	to	have	been	some	sort	of	financial	constraint	imposed	on
Anselm	by	his	father,	who	perhaps	wished	his	son	to	reserve	his	energies	for	the

--- Page 660 ---
Austrian	estates	he	would	one	day	inherit.	When	Anselm	spotted	an	attractive
property	at	Emmerich	near	Frankfurt	in	1843,	he	had	to	ask	James	to	put	up	the
money	and	sought	to	justify	it	as	a	speculative	investment.	Revealingly,	Amschel
was	to	act	as	“paymaster”	for	the	new	house	at	Grüneburg.
3
	
Despite	his	confessed	“bad	opinion”	of	Jews	in	general,	Thackeray	became
friendly	with	Anthony’s	wife	Louisa	and	Lionel’s	wife	Charlotte	after	a	chance
meeting	in	1848.
4
	
In	late	1849	Heine	sent	her	a	copy	of	his	post-revolutionary	poem	which
contains	a	passionate	denunciation	of	the	powers	which	had	crushed	the
Hungarian	rising.	The	Rothschilds’	support	for	the	Russian-sponsored	reaction
was	well	known.
5
	
James	may	have	attended	the	second,	disastrous	performance.
THIRTEEN	
Quicksilver	and	Hickory	(1834-1839)
1
	
The	Rothschilds	had	lent	the	Portuguese	government	£88,688	for	four	months
to	pay	the	interest	due	on	its	3	per	cent	bonds.	As	a	security,	the	government
handed	over	“Regency	bonds”	to	the	nominal	value	of	£600,000.	When	the
government	failed	to	repay	the	£88,688,	the	London	house	sold	these	bonds,	but
the	Portuguese	government	claimed	that	it	had	unnecessarily	delayed	this	sale	in
order	to	collect	more	interest.	The	final	judgement	went	in	favour	of	the
Portuguese	government	on	a	technicality.
2
	
Interestingly,	Metternich	made	it	clear	that	he	had	no	objection	to	the
Rothschilds	covertly	participating	in	Spanish	business	in	partnership	with	other
firms.	His	concern	was	that	the	name	“Rothschild,”	if	publicly	associated	with
the	Regency	of	Maria	Christina,	would	strengthen	its	position.	The	warnings	of
Broglie	to	James	are	not	easy	to	reconcile	with	his	talk	on	March	8	of	a	French-
backed	loan	to	integrate	Spain	“dans	l’ensemble	des	finances	de	l’Europe,
lesquelles	forment	en	ce	moment	une	sorte	de	République,	une	sorte	de
fédération,	qui	sont	jusqu’à	un	certain	point	solidaires	les	unes	des	autres	et	se
soutiennent	mutuellement	dans	une	certaine	mesure.”	When	asked	to	define	the
nature	of	the	French	backing,	he	changed	his	tune.
3
	
According	to	Villiers,	Mendizábal	hoped	for	a	“stroke	of	generosity”	from	“the

--- Page 661 ---
Leviathan”	(meaning	Nathan).	The	diplomatic	correspondence	shows	how	little
contact	there	was	between	the	Rothschilds	and	Palmerston	at	this	time.
4
	
Lionel	to	Anthony	and	Nat,	July	22.	“Every	person	here	laughs	at	their	want	of
decision	and	at	their	not	knowing	which	cause	they	ought	to	take	up.	Why	do
they	not	interfere	regularly	and	send	50,000	men;	they	would	finish	the	war	in
three	months,	or	why	do	not	they	propose	to	send	some	French	Generals?”	wrote
Lionel	angrily.	“It	is	disgusting	to	see	two	powers	like	England	and	France	so
afraid	of	the	despotic	Government”—meaning	Metternich.	James,	Paris,	to	his
nephews,	London,	Sept.	11;	same	to	same,	Dec.	25.	Palmerston	made	a	similar
point	in	arguing	against	a	guaranteed	loan	of	the	sort	urged	by	Villiers:	“Men
would	say	that	if	money	was	the	chief	want	of	the	Queenites	a	loan	might	set
them	on	their	legs,	but	that	the	Rothschilds	will	not	contract	to	supply	military
skill	and	willingness	to	fight	and	honesty	of	purpose,	and	common	sense,	and
without	all	these	things	the	loans	would	only	enrich	a	few	more	generals.
5
	
Because	the	Banque	could	not	directly	lend	money,	the	operation	had	to	be
done	indirectly:	Baring	drew	three-month	bills	to	the	value	of	48	million	francs
on	a	syndicate	composed	of	Hottinguer,	Delessert,	d’Eichthal	and	Périer	and
d’Argout,	then	discounted	the	bills;	Baring	then	made	the	cash	available	to	the
Bank.
FOURTEEN	
Between	Retrenchment	and	Rearmament
(1840)
1
	
“On	David’s	throne,	once	it	is	restored,	there	will	sit	that	financial	dynasty
which	all	European	recognises	and	to	which	all	Europe	submits.	.	.	.”
2
	
“He	talked	to	me	with	great	apparent	earnestness	on	the	subject	of	restoring	the
Jews	to	their	own	land	.	.	.	The	country,	he	said,	had	ample	natural	capabilities:
all	it	wanted	was	labour,	and	protection	for	the	labourer:	the	ownership	of	the
soil	might	be	bought	from	Turkey:	money	would	be	forthcoming:	the
Rothschilds	and	leading	Hebrew	capitalists	would	all	help:	the	Turkish	empire
was	falling	into	ruin:	the	Turkish	Govt	would	do	anything	for	money.”
3
	
I	am	grateful	to	Professor	David	Landes	for	this	point.
4
	
Significantly,	the	Mayer	de	Rothschild	hospital	set	up	then	was	wholly

--- Page 662 ---
controlled	by	the	Rothschilds,	and	had	been	established	under	the	supervision	of
James’s	son	Gustave.
FIFTEEN	
“Satan	Harnessed”:	Playing	at	Railways
(1830-1846)
1
	
Pseudo-scientific	racial	definitions	of	Jewishness	were	of	course	primarily
devised	by	anti-Semites	in	order	to	get	at	apostates	or	the	issue	of	“mixed
marriages.”	Because	the	Rothschilds	remained	Jewish	in	the	religious	sense,	they
could	be	attacked	in	traditional	terms	too.
2
	
The	Austrian	government’s	inertia	is	well	illustrated	by	the	failure	of	a	scheme
to	raze	the	city	walls	to	ease	the	development	of	traffic	between	the	centre	and
the	suburbs.
3
	
As	in	England,	the	first	French	railways	strictly	speaking	were	built	to
transport	coal	in	mining	areas:	the	Saint-Etienne	line	built	in	the	early	1830s	was
the	analogue	of	the	Stockton—Darlington	line	built	a	decade	previously.	But	the
development	of	the	railway	network	proper—in	the	sense	of	a	service	for	both
freight	and	passengers,	and	reliant	on	steam	locomotives	rather	than	horses—
should	be	dated	from	the	construction	of	the	Paris-Saint-Germain	line.
4
	
The	Rive	Droite	cost	16.8	million	francs	to	build	compared	with	a	projected
cost	of	11	million,	though	it	was	significantly	cheaper	than	the	Rive	Gauche.
5
	
Although	it	seems	unlikely	that	this	pamphlet	was	authorised,	Anselm	later
stated	that	the	“vulgar	abuse”	directed	at	James	had	“emanated	principally	from
a	despicable	person,	to	whom	our	Paris	House	had	quite	rightly	refused	a	loan.”
6
	
This	was	essentially	a	development	of	his	allegations	that	James	had	bribed
politicians	and	the	press	to	secure	the	Nord	concession,	and	a	more	general
attack	on	the	financing	of	the	railways.
7
	
Naturally,	their	mother	interpreted	their	survival	as	“providential.”	According
to	one	account,	however,	Evelina	and	her	unborn	son	died	as	a	result	of	another
railway	crash	two	years	later.

--- Page 663 ---
SIXTEEN	
1848
1
	
Figures	for	length	of	line	constructed	and	investment	show	that	it	was	not	until
1851	that	the	trough	was	reached,	four	years	after	the	financial	crisis:	there	was,
to	use	an	apposite	metaphor,	a	“runaway	train”	effect.
2
	
When	Nat	saw	Adolph	after	the	revolution,	he	found	him	“quite	an	altered
man,	he	has	become	the	steadiest	fellow	ever	seen,	he	neither	smokes	nor	shags
nor	dances.”
3
	
According	to	the	republican	leader	Garnier-Pagès,	the	attack	on	Suresnes	was
instigated	by	a	local	poultry	merchant,	Louis	Frazier.	The	crowd	pillaged	the
pheasant	pens	and	the	stables,	stole	horses	and	“with	hatchets,	iron	bars	and
clubs	they	laid	waste	furniture,	mirrors,	and	pictures.”	Those	convicted	were
sentenced	to	between	five	and	twenty	years	in	prison.
4
	
Both	Schleswig	and	Holstein	were	formally	under	Danish	suzerainty,	the
former	guaranteed	by	Britain,	Russia	and	France	under	a	treaty	of	1720.
However,	the	Salic	law	of	succession	applied	in	the	duchies	but	not	in	Denmark,
so	that	the	failure	of	the	Danish	male	line	appeared	to	call	the	future	of	the
duchies	into	question.	The	German	claim	was	primarily	an	ethnic	one.	Holstein
was	already	part	of	the	German	Confederation;	the	southern	part	of	Schleswig
was	linguistically	German.	The	Danes	forced	the	issue	by	incorporating
Schleswig	into	Denmark	on	March	21.	The	Confederation	Diet	in	Frankfurt,
encouraged	by	the	nationalist	pre-parliament,	responded	by	sending	a	Prussian
army	to	Schleswig.	To	the	dismay	of	the	nationalists	in	Frankfurt,	on	August	26
the	Prussians	bowed	to	British	and	Russian	pressure	and	accepted	an	armistice
which	established	a	joint	Danish—Prussian	administration	in	the	duchies.
5
	
The	political	anxieties	of	Albert’s	uncle,	King	Leopold	of	the	Belgians,	were
such	that	he	deposited	5	million	francs	with	the	Rothschilds	as	a	contingency
fund	in	the	event	of	his	losing	his	throne.
6
	
James	attempted	to	mollify	Cavour	by	sending	his	agent	Landauer	to	offer	him
“as	many	Rentes	
au	prix	courant
	as	I	wanted.”	Cavour	refused,	“but	it	gave	me
some	idea	of	the	way	business	is	done	in	most	of	the	European	Cabinets.”

--- Page 664 ---
INDEX
“A-albionic	Research	Weekly”	(Daugherty)
Abbot	Scaglia	Adoring	the	Virgin	and	Child,	The
	
(Van	Dyck)
Aberdeen,	Lord
Adrianople,	Treaty	of	(1829)
Aguado	(banker)
Ailesbury,	Lady
Aix-la-Chappelle,	Congress	of
Albert	of	Saxe-Coburg-Gotha,	Prince	Consort	of	England
Algeria
Alkan,	Salomon
Allen,	Don
Allgemeine	Zeitung
Allgemeine	Zeitung	des	Judenthums
Alliance	Assurance	Company
Nathan	and
Alliance	Marine	Assurance	Company
Almadén	mercury	mines
Alsager,	Thomas	Massa
Althorp,	Lord
Alvars,	Parish
American	War	of	Independence
Andrássy,	Gyula,	Count
“Angel,	The”	(Heine)
Angoulême,	duc	D’
Anhalt-Coethen
Anson,	George
anti-Semitism:
anti-Rothschild	criticism	and
1848	revolution	and
emancipation	issue	and
Tommaso	affair	and

--- Page 665 ---
Anti-Semitic	League
Anti-Slavery	Society
Apotheosis	and	Adoration	of	the	Idol	of	our	Time
	
(Kretschmer)
Apponyi,	Count
Arari,	David
Arbuthnot,	Charles
Arbuthnot,	Mrs.
Ardouin
Argent’
	(Zola)
Argout,	comte	d’
Arkwright,	Richard
Arliss,	George
Armida	abbandonata
	(Cherubini)
Arnim,	Achim	von
Arnstein	&	Eskeles
Asis,	Francisco	de
Atta	Troll
	(Heine)
Audubon,	John	James
Auerstadt,	battle	of
Augsburger	Zeitung
August	Belmont	&	Co.
Austria
crises	of	1831	and
1834	fiscal	policy	of
1848	revolution	in
Hungary’s	conflict	with
intervention	in	Italy	by
Jewish	emancipation	issue	in
Papal	states	and
postwar	reparations	owed	to
railway	investment	in
Rothschild	banking	relationship	with
Rothschild	loans	to
Rothschilds	and	British	debt	of
subsidy	deal	and
Tolerance	Edict	of	1782	of

--- Page 666 ---
Austrian	Nationalbank
Austrian	Steamship	Company
Ayer
Baden
Bagehot,	Walter
B.	A.	Goldschmidt
Baguenault	(banker)
Bakunin,	Michael
Balfour,	Arthur
Balla.
Balzac,	Honoré	de
James’s	relationship	with
Bank	Charter	Act,	British
Bank	Committee,	British
Bank	of	England
crisis	of	1825	and
crisis	of	1836and
1848	revolution	and
Nathan’s	relationship	with
Peel’s	financial	reforms	and
Rothschilds	and
Bank	of	San	Fernando
Bank	of	the	United	States	(BUS)
Banque	de	Belgique
Banque	de	Bordeaux
Banque	de	France
1848	revolution	and
Banque	foncière
Banque	Rothschild
Barandon	(merchant)
Barber,	Joseph
Barbès	(socialist)
Barbier	(Austrian	official)

--- Page 667 ---
Baring,	Alexander
Baring,	Francis
Baring,	John
Baring	Brothers
Bartholony
Baruch,	Bernard
Baruch,	Jacob
Baruch,	Juda	Low,	
see
	Börne,	Ludwig
Bastide	(foreign	minister)
Bates,	Joshua
“Baths	of	Lucca,	The”	(Heine)
Bathurst,	Earl
Bauer,	Bernhard
Bauer,	Bruno
Bauer,	Ignaz
Bauer,	Max
Bavaria
Beauharnais,	Hortense	de
Beauties	of	Brighton
	(Cruikshank)
Beck,	Karl
Bedford,	Duke	of
Beechey,	William
Beethoven,	Ludwig	van
Behrens	(banker)
Belgium
crisis	of	1831-	and
crisis	of	1838-	in
Dutch	invasion	of
Bellini,	Vincenzo
Belmont,	August
Bender,	Johann	Heinrich
Bentheim-Tecklenburg,	Prince	von
Bentinck,	George
Berchem,	Nicolaes
Berend	(clerk)
Berghoeffer,	G.	H.

--- Page 668 ---
Berlin	Convention	(1808)
Berlioz,	Hector
Bermudez,	Cea
Berry,	duc	de
Berry,	duchesse	de
Bethmann,	Johann	Philipp
Bethmann,	Simon	Moritz	von
Rothschilds	resented	by
Bethmann	Brothers
Bethnal	Green	Society	for	the	Relief	of	the	Sick	Poor
Beyfus,	Mayer
Beyfus,	Seligmann
Biddle,	Nicholas
Bills	of	Exchange	Act	(1882),	British
“Biographical	Notes	on	the	House	of	Rothschild”	(Gentz)
Birds	of	America
	(Audubon)
Bismarck,	Herbert
Bismarck,	Otto	von
Bismarck	and	Rothschild
	(Bauer)
Blanc,	Louis
Blanqui,	Auguste
Blanvalet,	Henri
Bleichröder,	Gerson
Bleichröder,	Samuel
Blount,	Edward
see	also
	Laffitte-Blount	Group
Blücher,	Gebhard	von
Blum,	Robert
Board	of	Deputies	of	the	British	Jews
Bocher,	Charles
Boer	War
Bonaparte,	Jérôme
Bon	Ton
“Book	of	Snobs”	(Thackeray)
Borch,	Gerard	ter
Börne,	Ludwig

--- Page 669 ---
on	Carl’s	papal	audience
Judengasse	described	by
on	reactionary	power	of	Rothschilds
Boulton	&	Watts
Brandt	(banker)
Braun	(Rothschild	employee)
Brazil
Bread,	Meat	and	Coal	Society
Bridgewater,	Earl	of
British	Admiralty
British	Association	for	the	Relief	of	the	Extreme	Distress	in	the	Remote	Parishes
of	Ireland	and	Scotland
Brockhaus,	F.	A.
Broglie,	Achille-Charles	de
Brunswick
Buccleuch,	Duke	of
Buckingham,	Duke	of
Buckinghamshire	General	Infirmary
Buddenbrooks
	(Mann)
Buderus,	Karl
Bullion	Committee
Bülow,	Prince	von
Buol-Schauenstein,	Karl	Ferdinand	von
Burger,	Anton
Burgman,	George
Burke,	Edmund
Burma
Bute,	Marquess	of
Buxton,	Edward
Buxton,	Thomas	Fowell
Byron,	George	Gordon,	Lord
Cadiz	mutiny
Caisse	Générale

--- Page 670 ---
Cambridge,	Duchess	of
Cambridge,	Duke	of
Campe,	Julius
Camphausen,	Ludolf
Canard	Enchaîné,	Le
Canning,	George
Canning,	Stratford
Capefigue
capitalism
Judaism	equated	with
Carême,	Antonin
Carlos,	Don
Carlos	IV,	King	of	Spain
Carlsbad	agreement	(1830)
Carlyle,	Thomas
Caroline,	Queen	of	England
Cassel,	Joseph
Castellane,	Maréchal	de
Castlereagh,	Robert	Stewart,	Lord
Catholic	Church
Caussidière,	Marc
Cavaignac,	Eugène
Cavour,	Camillo	di,
Cazenove,	James
Central	Hungarian	Railway	Company
Chamber	of	Deputies,	French
Chamberlain,	Joseph
Champmartin,	Charles-Emile
Changarnier,	Nicolas
Charles	Albert,	King	of	Sardinia-Piedmont
Charles	X,	King	of	France
1830	revolution	and
Charlotte,	Princess	of	England
Chartreux	Madonna
	(Van	Eyck	and	Christi)
Chateaubriand,	François-Auguste-René	de
Chaumont,	Treaty	of	(1814)

--- Page 671 ---
Chekhov,	Anton
Chelius,	Professor
Cherubini,	Luigi
Chile
Chirac,	Auguste
Chopin,	Fryderyk
Chotek,	Count
Christ	as	the	Good	Shepherd
	(Murillo)
Christi,	Petrus
Churchill,	Randolph
Cicero
Circular	to	Bankers
Civil	War,	U.S.
Clancarty,	Earl	of
Clarence,	Duke	of
Clarendon,	George	William	Villiers,	Lord
Clarisse	Harlowe
	(	Janin)
Clary,	Edmond	de
Clay,	Henry
Cleveland,	Duke	of
C.	M.	von	Rothschild
Cobbett,	William
Cockerill,	John
Cohen,	Hannah,	
see
	Rothschild,	Hannah	Cohen
Cohen,	Joseph
Cohen,	Juliana,	
see
	Rothschild,	Juliana	Cohen
Cohen,	Levi	Barent
Cohen,	Salomon
Cohen,	S.	J.
Cohn,	Albert
Cologne	Reinsurance	Society
Colombia
Comédie	humaine
	(Balzac)
Committee	on	the	Bank	Charter,	British
Compagnie	du	Chemin	de	Fer	du	Nord
Confederation	of	the	Rhine

--- Page 672 ---
Congress,	U.S.
Congress	of	Aix-la-Chappelle
Congress	of	Laibach
Congress	of	Troppau
Congress	of	Verona
Congress	of	Vienna
Jewish	emancipation	issue	and
Coningsby
	(Disraeli)
“Conspiracy	Nation”	(Skolnick)
Constitutional	Assembly,	French
Constitutionnel
Continental	System
Convention	of	Berlin	(1808)
Convention	of	London	(1832)
Corn	Laws,	British
Corti,	Luigi
Corvetto	(finance	minister)
Coston,	Henry
Cotton,	W.
Courier
	(London)
Courrier	Français
Courrier	des	Spectacles
Cousine	Bette,	La
	(Balzac)
Coutts	&	Co.
Cowles.
Cranach,	Lucas
Crapouillot
Crawshay,	Richard
Crédit	Mobilier
Crémieux,	Adolphe
Crimean	War
Croatia
Cruikshank,	George
Cruikshank,	Robert
Cuba
Curtis,	Timothy

--- Page 673 ---
Customs	Union	(Zollverein),	Prussian
Custozza,	battle	of
Cuyp,	Aalbert
“Czar	in	Rothschild’s	Castle,	The,”
Dairnvaell,	Georges
Dalberg,	Karl	Theodor	Anton	von
Dalmatia
Damas,	Baron	de
Dantan,	Jean-Pierre
Darby,	John
Darmstadt,	Grand	Duke	of
Dashwood,	John
Daugherty,	James
David,	Feidel
Davidson,	Benjamin
Davidson,	Lionel
Davidson,	Meyer
Davillier,	J.	C.
Decembrist	movement
Decree	for	the	Future	Management	of	the	State	Debt	(1819),	Prussian
Delaporte	(cartoonist)
Delaroche,	Paul
Delessert,	Benjamin
Denison,	William	J.
Denmark
Derby,	Earl	of
Devonshire,	Duke	of
Dibdin,	Thomas
Dickens,	Charles
Dietrichstein,	Count
Dighton,	Richard
Dino,	duchesse	de
Disraeli,	Benjamin

--- Page 674 ---
on	Rothschild	family	unity
Rothschilds	in	writings	of
Doloret	(businessman)
Domenichino	(artist)
Don	Juan
	(Byron)
Dreux,	Alfred	de
Drummond	(businessman)
Drumont,	Edouard
Duckwitz,	Arnold
Dudley,	Earl	of
Dufour,	M.
Dumas,	Alexandre
Dumon	(French	minister)
Duncombe,	Thomas
Dundas,	Henry
Dunmore,	Commissary-General
Duponchel,	Charles-Edmond
Duras,	duc	de
Duras,	duchesse	de
East	India	Company
Eckart,	Dietrich
Edict	of	Fontainebleau	(1810)
Edict	of	Toleration	(1782)
Edict	of	Trianon	(1810)
Edifying	and	Curious	History	of	Rothschild	I,	King	of	the	Jews,	The
	(Dairnvaell)
Edward	VII,	King	of	England
Egypt
Eichendorff,	Joseph	von
Eichtal,	Adolph	d’
Elector	of	Hesse,	
see
	William	IX,	Landgraf	of	Hesse-Kassel
Elector’s	treasure	myth
Eliot,	George
Endymion
	(Disraeli)

--- Page 675 ---
Enfantin,	Prosper
Entente	Cordiale
Ernst	August,	King	of	Hanover
Ernst	I,	Duke	of	Saxe-Coburg
Espartero,	Baldomero
Esterházy,	Carl
Esterházy,	Marie
Esterházy,	Paul
Ewige	Jude,	Der
	(“The	Eternal	Jew”)
Exemplary	Life	of	the	Immortal	Banker	Mr.	Meyer	Amschel	Rothschild,	The
(Cohen)
Eyck,	Jan	van
False	Industry,	The
	(Fourier)
Farrakhan,	Louis
Faucheréon
Federal	Reserve	System
Feidel	(clerk)
Ferdinand	I,	Emperor	of	Austria
Ferdinand	I,	King	of	the	Two	Sicilies
Ferdinand	II,	King	of	the	Two	Sicilies
Ferdinand	VII,	King	of	Spain
Ferdinand	VIII,	King	of	Spain
Ferdinand	of	Saxe-Coburg
Fesch,	Joseph	Cardinal
Fettmilch,	Vincenz
Feydeau,	Ernest
Fidelio
	(Beethoven)
Filtsch,	Karl
First	Official	Response	of	M.	Baron	James	Rothschild
Fitzroy,	Arthur
Fitzroy,	Blanche
Fitzroy,	Charles
Fitzroy,	Henry

--- Page 676 ---
Flandrin,	Hippolyte
Fleury,	Joseph-Nicholas-Robert
Fontainebleau,	Edict	of	(1810)
Forster,	W.	E.
Fouché,	Joseph
Fould,	Achille
Fould,	Benoît
Fourier,	Charles
Fournier-Verneuil	(publisher)
France
anti-Rothschild	literature	of
Belgian	question	and
bond	conversion	scheme	and
containment	policy	directed	against
crises	of	1831-32	and
1830	revolution	in
1841	loan	to
1847	banking	crisis	and
1848	revolution	in
fiscal	policy	of	1834-41	of
Jewish	emancipation	issue	and
Jews	of
July	monarchy	of
Napoleonic	War	debt	of
post-Napoleonic	War	reparations	by
railway	investment	and
Rothschild	leverage	and	loans	of	1831	to
Second	Peace	of	Paris	and
Spanish	intervention	by
Spanish	succession	conflict	and
Thiers’s	government	and
Tommaso	affair	and
Francis	Frederick,	Duke	of	Saxe-Coburg
Francis	II,	Holy	Roman	Emperor
Franco-Prussian	War
Frankfurt

--- Page 677 ---
1848	revolution	and
Fettmilch	riots	in
French	Revolution	and
as	grand	duchy
“Hep”	riots	in
intermarriage	law	of
Judengasse	of,	
see
	Judengasse
Lionel’s	dislike	of
reform	movement	and
Rothschild	family	roots	in
Rothschilds’	ennoblement	and
Rothschilds’	fame	and
Frankfurt	Jews	and	the	Mulcting	of	the	People’s	Well-being,	The
	(“Germanicus”)
Franklin,	Benjamin
Frederick,	Prince	of	the	Netherlands
Frederick	III,	Holy	Roman	Emperor
Frederick	V,	King	of	Denmark
Frederick	William	III,	King	of	Prussia
Frederick	William	IV,	King	of	Prussia
Freemasons
French	Revolution
Fries	&	Co.
Frimont,	Johann	von
Froelicher,	Joseph-Antoine
Fugger	(banking	family)
Gainsborough,	Thomas
Galicia
Galsworthy,	John
Garnier-Pagès,	Louis	Antoine
Gasser	(agent)
Gautier,	Théophile
Gaviria,	Manuel
Geiger	(clerk)

--- Page 678 ---
Geisenheimer,	Seligmann
General	German	Encyclopaedia	for	the	Educated	Classes
Generalpumpe,	Die
Gentz,	Friedrich	von
Rothschild	financial	relationship	with
George	II,	King	of	England
George	III,	King	of	England
George	IV,	King	of	England
death	of
Rothschilds	as	bankers	for
German	Confederation
Germany
anti-Rothschild	literature	of
1848	revolution	in
Jews	of
railway	investment	in
“Germany”	(Heine)
“Germany	in	October	1849”	(Heine)
Gervais	(Russian	diplomat)
Geymüller	&	Co.
Gille,	Bertrand
Gladstone,	William
Globe
	(Paris)
Gloucester,	Duchess	of
Glyn’s	(banking	house)
Goderich,	Lord.	
See
	Robinson,	Frederick
Goebbels,	Joseph
Goethe,	Johann	Wolfgang
on	Jewish-Gentile	intermarriage	law
Judengasse	described	by
Goethe	in	the	Campagna	di	Roma
	(Tischbein)
Goldschmidt	(banking	house)
Goldschmidt,	Alexander
Goldschmidt,	Hermann
Goldschmidt,	Jacob
Goldschmidt,	Julius

--- Page 679 ---
Goldschmidt,	Moritz
Goldsmid,	Abraham
Goldsmid,	Benjamin
Goldsmid,	Isaac	Lyon
Goldsmid	&	D’Eliason
gold	standard
Gompertz,	Benjamin
Goncourt	brothers
Gontard,	Jakob	Friedrich
Gontard	family
Goudchaux	(finance	minister)
Goulborn	(British	minister)
Grafton,	Duke	of
Grand	Process	between	Rothschild	I,	King	of	the	Jews,	and	Satan,	Last	King	of
the	Impostors
Grant,	Francis
Grant,	Robert
Granville,	Lord
Great	Britain
anti-Rothschild	literature	of
Austrian	subsidy	deal	and
Bank	Charter	Act	of
banking	crisis	of	1825	in
Belgian	question	and
Bills	of	Exchange	Act	of
consols	investments	and
“Corn	Laws”	of
Eastern	Question	and
1830	Reform	Bill	of
1830	revolution	in
exchange	rate	speculation	and
Hundred	Days	and
Industrial	Revolution	in
Irish	Famine	Loan	of	1847	and
Jewish	emancipation	issue	and
Jews	of

--- Page 680 ---
Napoleonic	War	financial	crisis	of
19th	century	birth	rate	in
Peel’s	financial	reforms	in
Prussian	subsidy	deal	and
reform	crisis	of	1830	in
Rothschild	financial	influence	in
Russian	subsidy	deal	and
slavery	abolished	by
Spanish	succession	conflict	and
Tommaso	affair	and
Wellington’s	campaign	and
Greece
Rothschild	loans	to
Green,	Samuel
Greffulhe	(banker)
Gregory	I,	Pope
Gregory	XVI,	Pope
Grenville,	Lady
Greuze,	Jean-Baptiste
Greville,	Charles
Grey,	Earl
Grillparzer,	Franz
Grosclaude,	Louis	Amié
Grosvenor,	Earl
Grouchy,	Emmanuel	de
Guadalupe	Hidalgo,	Treaty	of	(1848)
Guatemala
Guizot,	François
Gumprecht,	Isaac
Gysels,	Peter
Haber,	house	of
Hagermann	(banker)
Haiti

--- Page 681 ---
Hallé,	Charles
Hals,	Franz
Hamburg	(clerk)
Hamilton,	Alexander
Hanau,	Eva,	
see
	Rothschild,	Eva	Hanau
Hanau	(agent)
Hanau-Münzenberg
Hanover
Hansemann,	David
Hardenberg,	Karl	August	von
Harman	&	Co.
Harnier,	Louis
Harrison,	George
Harrowby,	Lord
Harvey,	“Coin,”
Hassenpflug,	Ludwig
Hattersley,	Roy
Head	of	a	Magdalene
	(Domenichino)
Hebrew	Talisman
Hecht	(agent)
Heckscher	(banker)
Heem,	Jan	David	de
Heine,	Carl
Heine,	Heinrich
Betty	and
death	of
James	in	conversation	with
James	as	described	by
James	as	portrayed	by
James’s	ball	as	described	by
James’s	relationship	with
James’s	residence	described	by
Judaism	as	viewed	by
on	railways’	impact
Rothschilds	as	seen	by
Salomon	and

--- Page 682 ---
Heine,	Salomon
Heinrich	&	Wertheimer
Heisler	(clerk)
Henckel	von	Donnersmarck,	Hugo
Hennings	(merchant)
“Hep”	riots
Herries,	John	Charles	,
crisis	of	1825	and
Huskisson’s	conflict	with
Herz,	Adelheid,	
see
	Rothschild,	Adelheid	Herz
Herz,	Naftali
Herzen,	Alexander
James’s	friendship	with
Herzl,	Theodor
Heseltine,	William
Hess,	Michael
Hesse
Hesse-Darmstadt
Hesse-Kassel
1830	revolution	in
Jewish	emancipation	issue	in
Heyden,	Jan	van	der
Hirschell,	Solomon
Histoire	de	la	Grandeur	et	de	la	Décadence	de	César	Birotteau
	(Balzac)
History	of	the	House	of	Rothschild
	(von	Scherb)
Hitler,	Adolf
Hobbema,	Meindert
Hobday,	William	Armfield
Hobson,	J.	A.
Holland,	Lady
Holland,	Lord
Holland,	Swinton
Hollander	(Henrietta’s	suitor)
Holstein,	duchy	of
Holstein-Glücksburg,	Prince	of
Holy	Alliance

--- Page 683 ---
Austria’s	Italian	intervention	and
containment	policy	and
France’s	Spanish	intervention	and
German	states’	loans	and
Prussian	loans	and
Russian	loans	and
South	American	“bubble”	and
Holy	Roman	Empire
Holy	Society	for	the	Assistance	of	the	Poor	for	the	Needs	of	the	Sabbath
Holy	Society	of	the	House	of	Learning	of	the	Ashkenazim
Homburg
Homme	d’affaires,	Un
	(Balzac)
Honduras
Hooch,	Pieter	de
Hope	&	Co.
Hoppner,	John
Horwood	(land	agent)
Hottinguer	(banker)
House	of	Commons,	British
Household	Law	(1809),	Prussian
House	of	Lords,	British
House	of	Nucingen,	The
	(Balzac)
House	of	Rothschild,	Its	History	and	Transactions,	The
	(Steinmann)
House	of	Rothschild,	The
Howard,	Mrs.
Hue	and	Cry,	The
Hugelmann	(poet)
Hugo,	Victor
Humann,	Théodore
Humboldt,	Alexander	von
Humboldt,	Caroline	von
Humboldt,	Wilhelm	von
Hummelauer	(Austrian	official)
“Hundred	Days,”
Hungary
Hunyady,	Joseph

--- Page 684 ---
Huskisson,	William
Herries’s	conflict	with
Huth	(banker)
Huysum,	Jan	van
Ibrahim	Pasha
Icke,	David
Imperialism:	A	Study
	(Hobson)
Incognito,	Das
	(Eichendorff	)
“Incredible	Chamber,”
Industrial	Revolution
Infant	Christ	as	the	Good	Shepherd
	(Murillo)
Ingres,	Jean-Auguste-Dominique
Inzághy,	Count
Ireland
famine	in
Isaaköw	Beer
Isabella	II,	Queen	of	Spain
Isak,	son	of	Elchanan	(ancestor)
Isenburg,	Karl	Friedrich	Ludwig	Moritz	zu
Isenburg,	Viktor	zu
Israel
Israel,	John	Helbert
Istria
Italy
Austrian	intervention	in
1831	revolts	in
1848	revolution	in
railway	investment	in
Itzstein	(police	commissioner)
Jackson,	Andrew
Jakob	(clerk)

--- Page 685 ---
James	(land	agent)
Jamnitzer,	Wentzel
Janin,	Jules
Jardin,	Karel	du
Jassoy,	August
Jaudon,	Samuel
Jena,	battle	of
Jew	and	the	Doctor,	The
	(Cruikshank)
Jew	and	the	Doctor,	The
	(Dibdin)
Jewish	France
	(Drumont)
Jewish	Lying-in	Charity
Jewish	Society	for	Relieving	the	Aged	Needy
Jews,	Judaism
in	anti-Jewish	literature
anti-Rothschild	criticism	and
capitalism	equated	with
conversion	to	Christianity	by
emancipation	issue	and
evolving	social	status	of
of	Frankfurt
in	Great	Britain
Heine’s	attitude	toward
intermarriage	by
Marx	on
Mayer	Amschel’s	charitable	acts	for
as	money-changers
Napoleon	I	and
in	Nazi	propaganda
reform	movement	and
Rothschilds’	activism	on	behalf	of
Rothschilds’	observance	of
Tommaso	affair	and
see	also
	anti-Semitism
Jews	and	Economic	Life,	The
	(Sombart)
“Jews	of	England,	their	History	and	Wrongs,	The”	(Duncombe)
Jews’	Free	School

--- Page 686 ---
Jews’	Hospital
Jews,	Kings	of	the	Epoch,	The:	A	History	of	Financial	Feudalism
	(Toussenel)
Joachim,	Joseph
Jones,	Thomas
Jordan	(Prussian	representative)
Joseph,	J.	L.
Joseph,	S.	I.
Joseph	II,	Holy	Roman	Emperor
Josephine,	Empress	of	France
Journal	des	Débats
Journal	des	Théâtres
Judengasse	(Jews’	Lane)
commerce	and	banking	in
culture	of
described
French	Revolution	and
“Hep”	riots	in
intermarriage	in
Mayer	Amschel’s	community	role	in-
Rothschilds’	ennoblement	and
Judensau
Judgement	Passed	against	Rothschild	and	Georges	Dairnvaell
	(anonymous)
Jud-Süss
Juste	de	Noailles,	comte
Kaiser	(clerk)
Kankrin,	Yegor	Frantsevich,	Count
Kann	family
Karl	Alexander,	Duke	of	Württemberg
Karl	Ludwig,	Archduke
Karloff,	Boris
Kaufmann	(Henrietta’s	suitor)
Kent,	Duchess	of
Kent,	Duke	of

--- Page 687 ---
Kessler	(broker)
King	Bestowing	Favors	on	a	Great	Man’s	Friends,	A
Kings	of	the	Republic
	(Chirac)
Kinnaird
Kirchner	(Austrian	official)
Kiselev,	Count
Kleinwort	family
Knatz	(Austrian	official)
Knighton,	William
Kolowrat-Liebsteinsky,	Franz	Anton	von,	Count
Kotzebue,	August	von
Kremm	(clerk)
Kretschmer,	Eduard
Krupp,	Alfred
Kübeck,	Baron
Kuhlmann,	Karl
Kuhn,	Loeb	&	Co.
Kupl,	David	Meyer
Labouchère,	Pierre-César
Labour	Leader
Lady	with	Fan
	(Velazquez)
Lafayette,	Marie-Joseph	de
Laffitte,	Charles
Laffitte,	Jacques
Laffitte-Blount	Group
Lagrange,	General
Laibach,	Congress	of
Lamarque,	Maximilien
Lamartine,	Alphonse	de
Lamb,	Frederick
Landgraf	of	Hesse,	
see
	William	IX,	Landgraf	of	Hesse-Kassel
Lansdowne	(British	minister)
Latour,	Count

--- Page 688 ---
Lauderdale,	Earl	of
Laurin,	Anton
Lawätz,	J.	D.
Léandre	(cartoonist)
Lecomte,	Casimir
Ledru-Rollin,	Alexandre
Legrand,	Emile
Lehren,	Hirsch
Leicester,	Earl	of
Leiningen,	Prince	of
Lennep	(War	Councillor)
Leopold	I,	King	of	Belgium	(Leopold	of	Saxe-Coburg)
Lessing,	Ephraim
Letronne	(scholar)
Letter	to	M.	Baron	de	Rothschild
Leuchtenberg,	Duke	of
Liberty	and	Her	Liberators
	(Eichendorff	)
Liebmann,	Hirsch
Lieven,	Dorothy	de
Limburger,	Baron
Limburger,	Madame
Lincoln,	Abraham
Lindsay,	Coutts
Lippe-Detmold,	Prince	of
List,	Friedrich
Liszt,	Franz
Little	Girl	with	Bouquet
	(Greuze)
Liverpool,	Lord
Lloyd,	Samuel	Jones
Lloyd’s	of	London
Lodi,	battle	of
Loewenstein,	Prince
Lombard	Street
	(Bagehot)
Lombardy
London	Assurance
London	Convention	(1832)

--- Page 689 ---
Londonderry,	Lady
London	Orphan	Asylum
London	Philanthropic	Society
Longfellow,	Henry	Wadsworth
Lonsdale,	Earl	of
Lorentz	(official)
Loudon,	John	Claudius
Louis	(French	minister)
Louis	XIV,	King	of	France
Louis	XVI,	King	of	France
Louis	XVIII,	King	of	France
Louis	Napoleon,	
see
	Napoleon	III,	Emperor	of	France
Louis	Philippe,	King	of	France
1848	revolution	and
James	and
Lucy,	George
Ludwig	I,	King	of	Bavaria
Luini,	Bernardino
Lunéville,	Peace	of	(1801)
Lutezia
	(Heine)
Luther,	Martin
Luxembourg
Lyndhurst,	Lord
Lyon	de	Symons	(banker)
Lys,	Bertran	de
Macaulay,	Thomas	Babington
McClellan,	George	B.
MacGregor,	Gregor
McNutt,	Alexander	G.
Maddai,	Samuel
Madonna	and	Child
	(del	Sarto)
Maes,	Nicolaes
Magnificent	Rothschilds,	The
	(Roth)

--- Page 690 ---
Mahmud	II,	Sultan
Maillé,	duc	de
Maillé,	duchesse	de
Maison	Nucingen,	La
	(Balzac)
Mallet	(banker)
Manin,	Daniele
Mann,	Thomas
Manuel	(broker)
Man	Wot	Knows	How	to	Drive	a	Bargain,	The
Maria	Christina	de	Borbón
Maria	II,	Queen	of	Portugal
Marie-Louise,	Archduchess
Marlborough,	Duke	of
Marmont,	August	de
M.	A.	Rothschild	&	Söhne
Marr,	Wilhelm
Martignac,	vicomte	de
Martin	Chuzzlewit
	(Dickens)
Martinez	de	la	Rosa,	Francisco	de	Paula
Martins,	Major
Marx,	Karl
Massey,	Placide
Masterman	(banker)
Mayer	Amschel	Rothschild	&	Sons
Mecklenburg
Mecklenburg-Strelitz,	Duke	of
Medici,	Luigi	de
Méeus	(governor	of	Société	Générale)
Mehemet	Ali	Pasha
Melbourne,	Lord
“Memorandum	on	Ludwig	Börne”	(Heine)
Mendelssohn	(bookkeeper)
Mendelssohn,	Felix
Mendelssohn,	Moses
Mendelssohn,	Henrietta
Mendizábal,	Juan	Álvarez

--- Page 691 ---
Menet	&	Cazenove
Mephistopheles
	(Marr)
Merian	(Russian	official)
Mérimée,	Prosper
Merlatto,	Caspar	Giovanne
Metastasio,	Pietro
Metternich,	Klemens	Lothar	von
Belgian	crisis	and
crises	of	1831-32	and
1848	revolution	and
Jewish	emancipation	issue	and
Neopolitan	campaign	and
railway	investment	and
Rothschild	banking	relationship	with
Salomon	and
Spanish	succession	crisis	and
Metternich,	Princess	Melanie
Metternich,	Viktor	von
Mexico
Meyerbeer,	Giacomo
Michelet,	Jules
Miguel,	Dom
“Milan	commission,”
Milkmaid,	The
	(Greuze)
Mirès,	Jules	Isaac
Mittrowsky,	Count
M.	M.	David
Mocatta,	Daniel
Mocatta	family
Mocatta	&	Goldsmid
“Model	Millionaire,	The”	(Wilde)
Modena,	duchy	of
Moldavia
Molé,	Louis-Mathieu
Mollien,	François	Nicholas
Mon,	Alejandro

--- Page 692 ---
Moniteur	Universel
“Monsieur	Leuwen”	(Stendhal)
Montagne	party,	French
Montalembert,	comte	de
Montefiore,	Abraham
Montefiore,	Joseph
Montefiore,	Judith
Montefiore,	Louisa,	
see
	Rothschild,	Louisa	Montefiore
Montefiore,	Moses
Montemolin
Montez,	Lola
Montijo,	Madame	de
Montpensier,	duc	de
Moravia
Morgan,	J.	P.
Morgan,	Sydney
Morning	Chronicle
Morrison,	James
Morton,	F.
Moscheles,	Ignaz
Moses	in	the	Bullrushes
	(Delaroche)
Mouchy,	duc	de
Muhammad,	Khalid
Muhlstein
Müller,	Adam
Müller,	Eberhard
Münch-Bellinghausen	(minister)
Murillo,	Bartolomé	Estebán
Musterreiter
	(Nussgeig)
Myth	of	the	Twentieth	Century,	The
	(Rosenberg)
Napier,	Charles
Naples,	Kingdom	of
Austrian	intervention	and

--- Page 693 ---
Napoleon	I,	Emperor	of	France
Hundred	Days	of
Jews	and
Napoleon	III,	Emperor	of	France
Napoleonic	Wars
Narváez,	General
Nassau,	duchy	of
Nassau-Saarbrücken,	Prince	of
Nassau-Usingen
Nathan	the	Wise
	(Lessing)
National
National	Assembly,	French
National	Standard
Nation	of	Islam
Navarino,	battle	of
Neal
Nesselrode,	Countess
Nesselrode,	Karl	Robert,	Count	von
Netherlands
Belgian	crises	and
1848	revolution	and
Netscher,	Gaspar
Neumann	(Austrian	ambassador)
New	Court	Fire	Screen,	A
New	World	Order,	The
	(Robertson)
Nicaragua
Nicholas	I,	Tsar	of	Russia
Nigra,	Constantino
Niles	Weekly	Register
Nisardésiré
Nixon,	Richard	M.
N.	M.	Rothschild,	Esq.
	(Thackeray)
N.	M.	Rothschild	&	Sons
Normanby,	Lord
Northumberland,	Duke	of
Nursery,	The
	(Greuze)

--- Page 694 ---
Nussgeig.
Oath	of	Abjuration,	British
O’Connell,	Daniel
“On	the	Jewish	Question”	(Marx)
On	the	State	of	Europe	before	and	after	the	French	Revolution
	(Gentz)
On	the	Traffic	in	State	Bonds
	(Bender)
On	the	Way	to	Smala
	(Vernet)
Oppenheim,	Moritz	Daniel
Oppenheim,	Samuel
Oppenheim,	Wolf	Jakob
Order	of	St.	John
Orléans,	duc	d’
Ostade,	Isaac	van
Osten,	Prokesch	von
Ostrolenka,	battle	of
Osy	(banker)
Ottoman	Empire
Eastern	Question	and
Greek	uprisings	and
Russia’s	conflict	with
Ouvrard,	Gabriel-Julien
Owen,	Robert
Pacioli,	Luca
Paganini,	Niccolò
Palack,	Frantis’‘ek
Palmerston,	Henry	John	Temple,	Lord
Palmerston,	Lady
Papal	states
Paris
Paris,	First	Treaty	of	(1815)
Paris,	Second	Peace	of

--- Page 695 ---
Parish,	David
Parish,	John
Parish	&	Co.
Parliament,	British
Parma,	duchy	of
Parting	Kiss,	The
	(Greuze)
Patti,	Adelina
Peace	of	Lunéville	(1801)
Pedro	I,	Emperor	of	Brazil
Peel,	Robert
financial	reforms	of
Peers,	House	of,	French
Peninsular	War
Perceval,	Spencer
Percy,	Henry
Père	Goriot,	Le
	(Balzac)
Pereira,	Ludwig	von
Pereire,	Emile
Pereire,	Isaac
Périer,	Casimir
Period
Peru
Peyrefitte,	Roger
Philippines
Philippson,	Ludwig
Picciotto,	Isaac	de
Picot,	François-Edouard
“Pictures	from	Frankfurt,”
Piedmont-Sardinia,	Kingdom	of
Pillar	of	the	Exchange,	A
	(	Jones)
Pitt,	William
Pius	IX,	Pope
Place,	Francis
Plutarch
Poèmes	et	légendes
	(Heine)
Poland

--- Page 696 ---
anti-Russian	revolt	in
Polignac,	Jules	de
Pompidou,	Georges
Ponto,	Erich
Portrait	of	Emma,	Lady	Hamilton
	(Romney)
Portrait	of	the	Hon.	Francis	Duncombe
	
(Gainsborough)
Portrait	of	Master	Braddyl
	(Reynolds)
Portrait	of	Miss	Meyer	as	Hebe
	(Reynolds)
Portrait	of	Mrs	Lloyd
	(Reynolds)
Portrait	of	Mrs	Sheridan
	(Gainsborough)
Portrait	of	a	Nobleman
	(Hals)
Portrait	of	a	Young	Man
	(Rembrandt)
Portugal
Canning	and
dynastic	conflict	in
Rothschild	loans	to
Potocki,	Stanislas
Potter,	Paulus
Pozzi	di	Borgio,	Carlo	Andrea
Pragmatic	Sanction,	Spanish	(1789)
Pressburg,	Treaty	of	(1805)
Presse
Prevost-Marcilhacy,	Pauline
Preye	&	Jordis
Protocols	of	the	Elders	of	Zion
Protocol	Society	in	an	Uproar,	The
Proudhon,	Pierre-Joseph
Prussia
Belgian	question	and
1848	revolution	in
Household	Law	of
Nathan’s	subsidy	deal	with
post-Napoleonic	Wars	loans	by
restrained	borrowing	by
Rothschild	loans	of	1830	to
State	Debt	Decree	of

--- Page 697 ---
Public	Works	Ministry,	French
Pückler-Muskau,	Prince	Hermann	von
Nathan	described	by
Punch
Pynacker,	Adam
Quadruple	Alliance
Queensberry,	Duke	of
Quotidienne
Radetzky,	Joseph
Radius	(clerk)
Raikes,	Thomas
railway	construction	and	investment
anti-Rothschild	criticism	and
in	Austria
1847-48	banking	crisis	and
1848	revolution	and
Fampoux	derailment	disaster	and
in	France
in	Germany
impact	of
in	Italy
London	house	and
Rothschild	interest	in
Rothschild	role	in
vertical	integration	strategy	and
Ranke,	Leopold	von
Raspail	(socialist)
Ratti-Menton,	comte	de
Razumovski,	Prince
Reeves,	John
“Reflections	at	the	Grave	of	N.	M.	Rothschild,	Esq.”	(Heseltine)

--- Page 698 ---
Reform	Bill	of	1830,	British
Réforme
Reid,	Irving	&	Co.
Reiss,	Esriel
Rembrandt	van	Rijn
Remplin,	Karl	von	Hahn	zu
Response	of	Rothschild	I,	King	of	the	Jews,	to	Satan	the	Last,	King	of	the
Impostors
Ressources	de	Quinola,	Les
	(Balzac)
revolution	of
in	Britain
cholera	epidemic	and
in	France
in	Germany
in	Hesse-Kassel
James’s	financial	experience	during
Lionel’s	description	of
Louis-Philippe	regime	and
perceived	power	of	the	Rothschilds	and
Reform	Bill	and
reform	crisis	and
revolution	of
agrarian	crises	and
anti-Semitism	and
banking	crises	and
central	banks	and
1830	revolution	contrasted	with
“June	days”	and
Louis-Napoleon	and
nationalism	and
onset	of
railway	investment	and
Rothschilds	as	targets	in
Rothschilds’	lack	of	influence	and
Rothschilds’	recovery	from
Rothschilds’	survival	in

--- Page 699 ---
and	threats	to	Rothschild	properties
Reynolds,	Joshua
Rheinische	Eisenbahngesellschaft
Rhenish	Confederation
Rhineland
Rice,	Thomas	Spring
Richelieu,	duc	de
Richmond,	Duke	of
Richtenberger,	Lazare
Riepel,	Franz	Xavier
Rigny	(French	minister)
Rindskopf,	Beer	Nehm
Rindskopf,	Nehm	Beer
Ritter,	Rosalie	Dorothea
Robertson,	Pat
Robespierre,	Maximilien	de
Robinson,	Frederick
Romance	of	the	Rothschilds,	The
	(Balla)
Romancero
	(Heine)
Romney,	George
Rosebery,	Earl	of
Rosenberg,	Alfred
Rosendaal	Castle
	(van	der	Heyden)
Rossini,	Gioacchino
Roth.
Rother,	Christian
Rothschild,	Adèle	Hannah	Charlotte
Rothschild,	Adelheid	(daughter	of	Wilhelm	Carl)
Rothschild,	Adelheid	Herz	(wife	of	Carl)
Rothschild,	Adolph
Rothschild,	Alfred	Charles	de
Rothschild,	Alphonse	(Mayer	Alphonse)	de
Rothschild,	Amschel	Moses
cartoon	of
character	of
1848	revolution	and

--- Page 700 ---
garden	of
“Hep”	riots	and
Jewish	emancipation	issue	and
lavish	entertaining	by
properties	of
railway	investment	and
religious	observance	by
Rothschild,	Anselm	(son	of	Salomon)
education	of
1848	revolution	and
made	full	partner
Vienna	house	salvaged	by
Rothschild,	Anselm	Alexander	(son	of	Carl)
Rothschild,	Anthony	(Billy)
apprenticeship	of
art	collection	of
horse-racing	enthusiasm	of
made	full	partner
marriage	question	and
rail	disaster	reaction	of
railway	investment	and
Rothschild,	Babette	(Breunle)
Rothschild,	Bettina	Caroline
Rothschild,	Betty	(Isabella)	(daughter	of	Mayer	Amschel)
Rothschild,	Betty	von	(wife	of	James)
Balzac	and
1848	revolution	and
Heine	and
Ingres’s	portrait	of
Rothschild,	Carl	(Kalman)
children	of
conversion	to	Christianity	repudiated	by
de	Medici	and
on	education
1848	revolution	and
lavish	entertaining	by

--- Page 701 ---
Medici	and
Neopolitan	intervention	and
papal	audience	of
personality	of
real	estate	of
Rothschild,	Caroline	Julie	(daughter	of	Anselm)
Rothschild,	Caroline	Stern	(wife	of	Salomon)
Rothschild,	Charlotte	(daughter	of	Carl)
Hannah	Mayer	and
Rothschild,	Charlotte	(daughter	of	James)
Rothschild,	Charlotte	(daughter	of	Nathan)
Rothschild,	Constance
Rothschild,	Edmond
Rothschild,	Emma	Louise	von
Rothschild,	Eva	Hanau
Rothschild,	Evelina	de
Rothschild,	Ferdinand	James
Rothschild,	Gustave	Salomon
Rothschild,	Gutelche
Rothschild,	Gutle	Schnapper
Rothschild,	Hannah	Cohen	(wife	of	Nathan)
Rothschild,	Hannah	Mathilde	(daughter	of	Anselm)
Rothschild,	Hannah	Mayer	(daughter	of	Nathan)
illness	and	death	of
in	marriage	to	Christian
as	musician
Rothschild,	Henrietta	(	Jettchen)
Rothschild,	James	(Jacob)
accessibility	of
in	anti-Rothschild	criticism
arts	and
in	Balzac’s	fiction
Balzac’s	relationship	with
Bank	of	England’s	1839	crisis	and
Belgian	loans	of	1838-39	and
cartoon	of

--- Page 702 ---
children	of
crisis	of	1831and
derailment	disaster	and
1830	revolution	and
1848	revolution	and
excluded	from	French	reparation	loans
France’s	Spanish	intervention	and
French	loans	of	1831-32	and
Hannah	Mayer’s	apostasy	and
Heine	in	conversation	with
Heine’s	description	of
Heine’s	relationship	with
Herzen’s	friendship	with
honors	awarded	to
hunting	enthusiasm	of
Iberian	conflicts,	loans	and
intelligence	of
lavish	entertainment	by
Louis-Philippe	and
marriage	of
Metternich	and
Nat’s	apprenticeship	and
negotiating	techniques	discussed	by
Nesselrode’s	anecdote	on
Netherlands-Belgium	question	and
ostentatiousness	of
Paris	fortification	project	and
personality	of
Prussian	subsidies	and
railway	investment	and
real	estate	of
religious	observance	by
social,	cultural	pursuits	of
social	graces	lacked	by
succession	issue	and
Tommaso	affair	and-

--- Page 703 ---
underlings	as	treated	by
U.S.	agency	debate	and
Viktor	Metternich’s	description	of
Rothschild,	James	Edouar	(son	of	Alphonse)
Rothschild,	James	Edouard	(son	of	Nat)
Rothschild,	Jeanette	(Schönche)
Rothschild,	Jonas
Rothschild,	Juliana	Cohen
Rothschild,	Julie	(Gotton)
death	of
Rothschild,	Kalman	(brother	of	Mayer	Amschel)
Rothschild,	Kalman	(great-grandfather	of	Mayer	Amschel)
Rothschild,	Laura	Thérèse
Rothschild,	Leonora
Rothschild,	Lionel	de
art	collection	of
1830	revolution	described	by
1848	banking	crisis	and
1848	revolution	and
Frankfurt	disliked	by
hunting	enthusiasm	of
Irish	famine	relief	and
“Lycurgus	cup”	owned	by
made	partner
marriage	of
Nathan’s	illness	and	death	and
in	Piedmont
portrait	of
Portuguese	loans	and
Spanish	loans	and
Tommaso	affair	and
Rothschild,	Louisa	Montefiore
Rothschild,	Louise	de
Rothschild,	Mayer	Alphonse,	
see
	Rothschild,	Alphonse
Rothschild,	Mayer	Amschel	(father	of	Nathan)
birth	of

--- Page 704 ---
charity	by
children	of
cinematic	representations	of
death	of
early	business	career	of
education	of
1810	partnership	agreement	and
Elector’s	treasure	myth	and
familial	unity	and
first	known	balance	sheet	of
French	Revolution	and
George	IV	and
given	title	of	court	agent
growing	wealth	of
Jewish	community	and
legacy	of
musical	based	on
Nathan’s	correspondence	with
in	Nazi	propaganda
numismatic	interest	of
personality	of
political	activism	of
secrecy	of
and	transition	of	business	to	sons
in	transition	to	banking
William	IX’s	relationship	with
will	of
Rothschild,	Mayer	Amschel	(son	of	Nathan)
Rothschild,	Mayer	Carl
Rothschild,	Miriam
Rothschild,	Moses	(grandfather	of	Mayer	Amschel)
Rothschild,	Moses	Amschel	(brother	of	Mayer	Amschel)
Rothschild,	Nathaniel	(Nat)	(son	of	Nathan)
apprenticeship	of
1848	revolution	and
Hannah	Mayer’s	marriage	and

--- Page 705 ---
made	partner
after	Nathan’s	death
railway	investment	and
Tommaso	affair	and
Rothschild,	Nathaniel	Mayer	(Natty)	(son	of	Lionel)
Rothschild,	Nathan	Mayer
accounting	procedures	of
Alliance	Assurance	Company	and
Austrian	subsidy	deal	and
Bank	Committee	testimony	of
Bank	of	England	and
bribery	as	practiced	by
Britain’s	Napoleonic	War	financial	crisis	and
brothers’	relationship	with
business	methods	of
caricatures	of
charity	by
children	of
cinematic	representations	of
commemorations	of
consul	title	of
contemporary	perception	of
crisis	of	1825	and
described
in	
Don	Juan
economic	assertiveness	of
education	of	children	and
1830	revolution	and
1836	partnership	agreement	and
in	emigration	to	England
fictional	representations	of
financial	leverage	of
financial	malpractice	suits	against
financial	markets	after	death	of
funeral	of
Hebrew	talisman	legend	and

--- Page 706 ---
Herries	and
illness	and	death	of
industrial	finance	and
insurance	business	and
Jewish	emancipation	issue	and
lavish	hospitality	of
and	loans	to	royalty
marriage	of
Mayer	Amschel’s	correspondence	with
Napoleonic	Wars	and
Netherlands-Belgium	crisis	and
obituary	on
personality	of
political	connections	of
portrait	of
press	and
prodigious	memory	of
Prussian	subsidy	deal	and
Pückler’s	description	of
real	estate	of
reform	crisis	and
religious	observance	by
Russian	loans	and
Russian	subsidy	deal	and
as	smuggler
social	rank	as	disregarded	by
South	American	“bubble”	and
Spanish	loans	and
sterling	exchange	rate	speculation	by
Thackeray’s	verses	on
tight-fistedness	of
Times
	and
total	wealth	of
in	transition	to	banking
“two	chairs”	joke	and
Vansittart	and

--- Page 707 ---
Waterloo	myth	and
Wellington	and
will	of
William	IX’s	British	investments	and
working	mode	of
Rothschild,	Salomon	Albert	(son	of	Anselm)
Rothschild,	Salomon	James	(son	of	James)
Rothschild,	Salomon	Mayer	von
approachability	of
Austrian	loans	of	1830-32	and
Austria’s	Italian	intervention	and
Belgian	crisis	of	1838-39	and
Charlotte’s	death	and
children	of
described
1848	banking	crisis	and
1848	revolution	and
emancipation	issue	and
fictional	portrayal	of
fraternal	unity	and
Gentz	and
Heine	and
insolvency	of
lavish	entertainment	by
Metternich	and
Nathan’s	relationship	with
Nathan’s	will	and
personality	of
Pressburg	trip	of
railway	investment	and
real	estate	of
religious	observance	by
social	graces	lacked	by
Spanish	loans	and
vertical	integration	strategy	used	by
Rothschild,	Victor

--- Page 708 ---
banking	as	defined	by
Rothschild,	Wilhelm	Carl	(son	of	Carl)
Rothschild	&	Cie	Banque
“Rothschild	and	the	Finances	of	Europe”	(Weill)
Rothschild	Brothers
Rothschild	family:
agents	of
Almadén	mines	deal	and
anti-Semitic	criticism	of
arbitrage	transactions	by
art	collections	of
authors	and
Balzac’s	relationship	with
Bank	of	England	and
Baron	title	and
Belmont	as	agent	for
Bethmann’s	resentment	of
bills	of	exchange	as	used	by
Brazil	and
bribery	as	used	by
British	consols	sold	by
brokers	used	by
brothers’	personal	relationships	within
bullion	smuggling	by
BUS	affair	and
business	rivals’	resentment	of
Canning’s	tenure	and
caricatures	and	cartoons	of
central	banks	and
charity	by
cinematic	representations	of
clerks	of
coat	of	arms	of
collecting	penchant	of
collective	identity	of
communications	network	of

--- Page 709 ---
competitors	and
conspiracy	theories	and
conversion	to	Christianity	repudiated	by
couriers	of
crises	of	1831-32	and
crisis	of	1836-39	and
education	as	seen	by
1810	partnership	agreement	of
1815	partnership	agreement	of
1818	partnership	agreement	of
1825	partnership	agreement	of
1836	partnership	agreement	of
1848	“congress”	of
1848	revolution	and
elite	pursuits	of
as	“the	exceptional	family,”
exchange	rate	speculation	by
and	expansion	of	partnership
fame	of
Fampoux	derailment	disaster	and
faulty	accounting	procedures	of
female	line	excluded	from	business	by
financial	leverage	and	diplomacy	and
fraternal	strife	within
fraternal	unity	and
French-Spanish	intervention	and
generational	conflict	in
as	“gentlemen,”
George	IV	and
Hannah	Mayer’s	apostasy	and
Hebrew	talisman	legend	and
Heine’s	relationship	with
heirs	and
honors,	titles	sought	by
horse-racing	enthusiasm	of
horticultural	passion	of

--- Page 710 ---
hunting	enthusiasm	of
ideal	of	fraternity	and
insurance	business	of
intermarriage	strategy	of
international	bullion	market	and
Irish	famine	and
Jerusalem	hospital	scheme	and
Jewish	community	and
Jewish	emancipation	issue	and
land	purchases	by
lavish	hospitality	by
liberal	criticism	of
literary	critiques	of
London-Paris	conflict	and
male	children	preferred	by
male	descendants	as	inner	circle	of
motto	of
as	multinational	partnership
music	enthusiasm	of
mythic	status	of
name	origin	of
national	identity	and
in	Nazi	propaganda
as	“new	money,”
nicknames	used	by
noble	status	of
outsiders	and
parental	rivalry	among
pastimes	of
perceived	as	reactionary
perceived	power	of
political	dimension	to	criticism	of
in	popular	literature
portraits	of
Portuguese	loans	of
post-Napoleonic	War	finances	and

--- Page 711 ---
postwar	Austrian	loans	of
and	preservation	of	Vienna	house
press	manipulated	by
private	correspondence	of
privileged	status	of
profit	sharing	within
Prussian	loans	of	1830	and
rapid	growth	of
real	estate	acquisition	by
religious	observance	by
royalty	and
royalty	in	debt	to
Russian	loans	of	1832	and
secrecy	used	by
social,	cultural	assimilation	and
Spanish	loans	of
and	
le	style	Rothschild
succession	debate	in
system	of	cooperation	of
Tommaso	affair	and
uniforms	favored	by
U.S.	interests	of
Rothschild	I,	his	Valets	and	his	People
Rothschild	Frères,	de
Rothschilds,	Die
	(film)
Rothschilds,	The:	A	European	Family
	(museum	exhibition)
Rothschilds,	The:	A	Family	of	Fortune
	(Cowles)
Rothschilds,	The:	A	Family	Portrait
	(Morton)
Rothschilds,	The:	The	Financial	Rulers	of	Nations
	
(Reeves)
Rothschild:	The	Wealth	and	Power	of	a	Dynasty
	
(Wilson)
Rothschild	Wins	at	Waterloo
	(Müller)
Roworth,	John
Royal	Exchange,	The
	(Cruikshank)
Rubens,	Peter	Paul
Rubinstein
Ruisdael,	Jacob	van

--- Page 712 ---
Rumania
Rumpf,	Friedrich
Rüppell	&	Harnier
Russell,	John
Russell,	William
Russia,	Imperial
crises	of	1831and
Decembrist	movement	in
fiscal	policy	of	1834-41	of
Nathan’s	subsidy	deals	with
Ottoman	conflict	with
Polish	uprising	and
Rothschild	influence	in
Rothschild	loans	of	1832	to
Ruysh,	Rachel
St.	Albans,	Duke	of
Saint-Simon,	Henri	de
Salisbury,	Marquess	of
Salomons,	David
Salomons,	Sheriff
Salomon	Salomons
Salon,	Der
	(Heine)
Sand,	Karl
Sándor,	Móric
Saphir	(satirist)
Sardinia
Sarto,	Andrea	del
Sassoon,	Siegfried
Savagner	(police	commissioner)
Savigny,	Friedrick	Karl	von
Saxe-Coburg
Saxe-Coburg,	Duke	of
Saxe-Coburg-Gotha,	House	of

--- Page 713 ---
Saxe-Meiningen,	Prince	of
Saxe-Weimar
Saxony
Sayéon
Scharfenberg	(agent)
Schaumburg
Scheffer,	Ary
Scherb,	Friedrich	von
Schiller,	Johann	Christoph	Friedrich	von
Schlemmer,	Dr.
Schleswig,	duchy	of
Schleswig-Holstein
Schlotheim,	Caroline	von
Schminke	(Army	Councillor)
Schnapper,	Abraham
Schnapper,	Anton
Schnapper,	Mayer
Schnapper,	Wolf	Salomon
Schröder	family
Schwarzenberg,	Felix	zu
Schwinner	(Austrian	official)
Scotland
Scottish	Free	Church
“Scriptures	for	America,”
Sebastiani	(French	minister)
“Secret	Committee	on	the	Expediency	of	the	Bank	Resuming	Cash	Payments,”
Seven	Years’	War
Shadow	of	a	Great	Man,	The
Shaftesbury,	Earl	of
Sichel,	Bernhard
Sichel,	Juda
Simon	G.	Sina	company
Simon	of	Trent
“Simplicissimus”	(Heine)
Siroe
	(Metastasio)
Skolnick,	Sherman	H.

--- Page 714 ---
Smidt	(Bremen	Bürgermeister)
Smirke,	Sydney
Smith,	Payne	&	Smith
S.	M.	von	Rothschild
Snake	in	the	Grass:	Love	Unbinding	the	Zone	of	Beauty
	(Reynolds)
Société	Commanditaire	de	l’Industrie
Société	de	Commerce	de	Bruxelles
Société	de	Secours
Société	Générale
Société	nationale	pour	enterprises	industrielles	et	commerciales
Society	for	the	Encouragement	and	Aid	of	Jewish	Indigents
Society	of	Friends	of	Foreigners	in	Distress
Sombart,	Werner
Somerset,	Duke	of
Soult,	Nicolas-Jean
South	American	“bubble,”
Southampton,	Lord
Soviet	Union
Spain
Almadén	mines	of
Cadiz	mutiny	in
Cortes	constitution	of
dynastic	conflict	in
French	intervention	in
Rothschild	bond	loans	to
Speculation	of	1870	to	1884,	The
	(Chirac)
Speyer,	Joseph	Isaak
Splendours	and	Sorrows	of	Courtesans
	(Balzac)
Spohr,	Louis
Städel,	Johann	Friedrich
Stadion-Warthausen,	Johann	von
Stafford,	Marquess	of
Standard	Bearer,	The
	(Rembrandt)
Stanley,	Edward	George,	Lord
State	Debt	Decree	(1819),	Prussian
Steed,	Henry	Wickham

--- Page 715 ---
Stein,	Baron	vom
Steinmann,	Friedrich
Stendhal
Stephenson,	George
Stern,	Caroline,	
see
	Rothschild,	Caroline	Stern
Stern,	Fritz
Stewart,	Charles
Stewart,	Lord
Stockmar,	Christian	von
Strauss,	Johann
Streicher,	Julius
Stuart,	Lord
“Study	of	Corporate	and	Banking	Influence”	(Allen)
Stüve,	Johann
Surtees,	Robert	Smith
Sussex,	Duke	of
Süss-Oppenheimer,	Joseph
Sutherland,	Duke	of
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Széchényi,	István
Széchényi,	Layos
Tahiti
Talabot,	Paulin
Talleyrand,	Charles	de
Talmud	Torah	in	London	Society
Tancred
	(Disraeli)
Tatichev	(Russian	ambassador)
Tay-Sachs	disease
Ten	Days	in	the	Reign	of	Rothschild	I,	King	of	the	Jews
Teniers,	David	(the	Younger)
Thackeray,	William	Makepeace

--- Page 716 ---
verses	on	Nathan	by
Thiard	(spy)
Thiers,	Adolphe
downfall	of
Tommaso	affair	and
Thomson,	Charles	Poulett
Thornton,	Henry
Thurneyssen,	Auguste
Thurn	und	Taxis,	Prince	of
Thurn	und	Taxis	family
Tierney,	George
Tilsit,	Treaty	of
Times
	(London)
Hannah	Mayer’s	marriage	in
Nathan’s	obituary	in
Nathan’s	relationship	with
Tischbein,	Wilhelm
Titian
“To	All	Working	People”	(Eckart)
Tocsin	des	Travailleurs
Toleration,	Edict	of	(1782)
Tolstoy,	Leo
Tommaso,	Father
Toreno	(Spanish	minister)
Torlonia	(banker)
“To	Rothschild”	(Hugelmann)
Toussenel,	Alphonse
Transylvania
“Travel	Sketches”	(Heine)
Travers,	Benjamin
Treaty	of	Adrianople	(1829)
Treaty	of	Chaumont	(1814)
Treaty	of	Guadalupe	Hidalgo	(1848)
Treaty	of	Paris,	First	(1815)
Treaty	of	Pressburg	(1805)
Treaty	of	Tilsit

--- Page 717 ---
Treaty	of	Treplitz	(1813)
Treaty	of	Unkiar	Skelessi
Trianon,	Edict	of	(1810)
Trollope,	Anthony
Trollope,	Frances
Troppau,	Congress	of
Turkey,	
see
	Ottoman	Empire
Tuscany,	Grand	Duke	of
“two	chairs”	joke
Two	Sicilies,	Kingdom	of	the
Ugarte,	Count
Union	Générale
United	Diet	(Landtag)
United	States
Rothschild	interest	in
United	Synagogue
Univers
Unkiar	Skelessi,	Treaty	of
“Un	petit	train	de	plaisir	(Comico	Imitatif	)”	(Rossini)
Unser	Verkehr
Untoward	Event,	An,	or	A	Tory	Triumph
Upper	Italy,	Kingdom	of
Van	Dyck,	Anthony
Van	Notten	&	Son
Vansittart,	Nicholas
Vasters,	Reinhold
Vatican	Bank
Velazquez,	Diego
Venetia
Vermischte	Schriften
	(Heine)
Vernet,	Horace

--- Page 718 ---
Vernet,	Jadin
Verona,	Congress	of
Victoria,	Queen	of	England
Rothschild	couriers	used	by
Vienna,	Congress	of
Jewish	emancipation	issue	and
View	on	a	Frozen	River
	(Cuyp)
View	of	Haarlem
	(van	der	Heyden)
View	from	the	Royal	Exchange,	A
	(Dighton)
Vigny,	Alfred	de
Villèle,	comte	de
bond	conversion	scheme	and
Villiers,	Charles
Virgin	and	Child
	(Luini)
Virtue	Faltering
	(Greuze)
Vitrolles	(French	minister)
Voix	du	Peuple
Völkische	Beobachter
Waagen,	Gustav
Wagg,	Alfred
Wagg,	John
Wagner,	Cosima
Wagner,	Richard
Wagram,	battle	of
Wales,	Prince	of
Warburg	(banking	family)
Warburg,	Paul
War	on	the	Swindlers
Waschnek,	Erich
Waterloo,	myth	of
Weber,	Max
Weenix,	Jan
Weill,	Alexandre

--- Page 719 ---
Weimar,	Duke	of
Weissenberg	(foreign	minister)
Weisweiller,	Daniel
Wellington,	Arthur	Wellesley,	Duke	of
in	anti-Rothschild	cartoons
Jewish	emancipation	opposed	by
as	prime	minister
reform	crisis	and
Rothschild	banking	relationship	with
Wertheimstein,	Leopold	von
Werther	(Prussian	ambassador)
Westminster,	Marquess	of
Westphalia
Wilde,	Oscar
William	II,	Elector	of	Hesse-Kassel
William	II,	Emperor	of	Germany
William	IV,	King	of	England
William	IX,	Landgraf	and	Elector	of	Hesse-Kassel
background	and	personality	of
Mayer	Amschel’s	relationship	with
Napoleonic	Wars	and
Williams	&	Co.
Wilson,	Derek
Wilson,	Thomas
Wilson	&	Co.
Windischgrätz,	Alfred	zu
Wise	Men	of	the	East	and	the	Marquiss	of	the	West,	The
Witkowitz	Ironworks
Wittgenstein,	Prince
Wolf,	Lucien
Wolzogen,	General	von
Wood,	Charles
World	War	I,
Worms,	Benedikt	Moses
Wouwermans,	Philips
Wright	&	Co.

--- Page 720 ---
Württemberg
Wynant,	Jan
York,	Frederick	Augustus,	Duke	of
Young	Lady	with	her	Page
	(ter	Borch)
Zanuck,	Darryl
Zichy-Ferraris,	Melanie
Zionists,	Zionism
Zola,	Emile
Zucker,	Mordechai

