Skip to main content





Sign up for free
Log in
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Ten Days that Shook the World"
See other formats
JOHN REED


TEN DAYS
THAT SHOOK
THE WORLD









John Reed (1887-1920)—writer
and publicist, one of the found¬
ing members of the Communist
Party of the USA. This book was
first published in the United
States in 1919 and in 1923 it
came out in Russian in the
USSR, where it was reprinted
many times.

All its printings in Russian, in¬
cluding the first edition, were
prefaced by V.I. Lenin and Na-
dezhda Krupskaya.

John Reed regarded Lenin as
an extraordinary leader “with
the power of explaining pro¬
found ideas in simple terms, of
analysing a concrete situation.
And combined with shrewdness,
the greatest intellectual au¬
dacity.”

John Reed’s book was the first
in world literature that conveyed
to the world the truth about the
victorious socialist revolution in
Russia that set in a new era in
the history of humankind.















JOHN REED


TEN DAYS
THAT SHOOK
THE WORLD


@U

PROGRESS PUBLISHERS
MOSCOW






10 4HEH,


Printed in
0505030101-031


,4>koh Pha

KOTOPblE EIOTPflCAH MHP

Ha amjiuucKOM rubixe


the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics


■ 26-87


014 ( 01)-87



CONTENTS


Page

Introduction by V. I. Lenin. 5

Introduction to the Russian Edition by N. K. Krupskaya ... 6

Preface. 11

Notes and Explanations. 16

Chapter I. Background. 27

Chapter II. The Coming Storm. 39

Chapter III. On the Eve. 58

Chapter IV. The Fall of the Provisional Government. 81

Chapter V. Plunging Ahead. 107

Chapter VI. The Committee for Salvation. 132

Chapter VII. The Revolutionary Front. 150

Chapter VIII. Counter-Revolution. 165

Chapter IX. Victory. 182

Chapter X. Moscow. 201

Chapter XI. The Conquest of Power. 212

Chapter XII. The Peasants’ Congress. 233

Appendixes. 248

The Biography of John Reed. By Albert Phys Williams .... 332




















INTRODUCTION


With the greatest interest and with never slackening at¬
tention I read John Reed’s book, Ten Days that Shook the
World. Unreservedly do I recommend it to the workers of
the world. Here is a book which I should like to see pub¬
lished in millions of copies and translated into all languages.
It gives a truthful and most vivid exposition of the events
so significant to the comprehension of what really is the Pro¬
letarian Revolution and the Dictatorship of the Proletariat.
These problems are widely discussed, but before one can ac¬
cept or reject these ideas, he must understand the full sig¬
nificance of his decision. John Reed’s book will undoubtedly
help to clear this question, which is the fundamental problem
of the international labour movement.


NIKOLAI LENIN
( Vladimir Ilyich Ulianov )







INTRODUCTION TO THE RUSSIAN EDITION


“Ten Days that Shook the World” was the title John Reed
gave his remarkable book. It presents a wonderfully vivid
and forceful description of the first days of the October Rev¬
olution. 1 It is not a mere enumeration of facts, nor a col¬
lection of documents, but a succession of scenes from life,
so typical that any participant in the revolution cannot but
remember similar scenes he had witnessed himself. And
these shots from life reflected with astonishing veracity the
sentiments of the masses, the sentiments that determined
every act of the Revolution.

One may wonder at first how such a book could have been
written by a foreigner, an American, who did not know the
language or the ways of the country. It would seem that he
should have committed numerous blunders and missed many
essentials.

Most foreigners write of Russia in quite a different way.
They either fail altogether to understand the events they wit¬
ness, or they snatch a few unconnected facts, not always typ¬
ical, and use them to make sweeping generalisations.

But, of course, very few foreigners were eye-witnesses of
the Revolution.

The explanation is that John Reed was not an indifferent
observer, but a passionate revolutionary, a Communist who
understood the meaning of the events, the meaning of the
great struggle. This understanding gave him that sharp in¬
sight, without which such a book could never have been writ¬
ten.

Russians write about the Revolution in a different manner:
they either evaluate it as a whole or describe the episodes
in which they took part. Reed’s book gives a broad picture of
a truly popular mass revolution, and it will therelore have
particular importance for the young people, for future gen¬
erations, for those to whom the October Revolution will be


1 Elsewhere in this book referred to as the November Revolution.— Ed.


6







past history. Reed’s book is, in its way, an epic.

John Reed associated his life with the Russian Revolution.
Soviet Russia became dear to him. He died in Russia of ty¬
phus and was buried in Red Square, beneath the Kremlin
wall. The man who described the funeral of the fallen heroes
of the Revolution as well as John Reed did, deserves this
great honour.


NADEZHDA KRUPSKAYA



JOHN REED


TEN DAYS
THAT SHOOK
the

WORLD












PREFACE


This book is a slice of intensified history—history as I saw
it. It does not pretend to be anything but a detailed account
of the November Revolution, when the Bolsheviki, at the
head of the workers and soldiers, seized the state power of
Russia and placed it in the hands of the Soviets.

Naturally most of it deals with “Red Petrograd,” the capi¬
tal and heart of the insurrection. But the reader must realise
that what took place in Petrograd was almost exactly dupli¬
cated, with greater or lesser intensity, at different intervals
of time, all over Russia.

In this book, the first of several which I am writing, I must
confine myself to a chronicle of those events which I myself
observed and experienced, and those supported by reliable
evidence; preceded by two chapters briefly outlining the
background and causes of the November Revolution. I am
aware that these two chapters make difficult reading, but
they are essential to an understanding of what follows.

Many questions will suggest themselves to the mind of
the reader. What is Bolshevism? What kind of a govern¬
mental structure did the Bolsheviki set up? If the Bolshe¬
viki championed the Constituent Assembly before the No¬
vember Revolution, why did they disperse it by force of arms
afterward? And if the bourgeoisie opposed the Constituent
Assembly until the danger of Bolshevism became apparent,
why did they champion it afterward?

These and many other questions cannot be answered here.
In another volume, “Kornilov to Brest-Litovsk,” 1 I trace the
course of the Revolution up to and including the German
peace. There I explain the origin and functions of the Rev¬
olutionary organisations, the evolution of popular senti¬
ment, the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly, the struc¬
ture of the Soviet state, and the course and outcome of the
Brest-Litovsk negotiations....

In considering the rise of the Bolsheviki it is necessary to
understand that Russian economic life and the Russian army
were not disorganised on November 7th, 1917, but many


1 Reed died without finishing this book and it was never published. — Ed.


11





months before, as the logical result of a process which began
as far back as 1915. The corrupt reactionaries in control of
the Tsar’s Court deliberately undertook to wreck Russia in
order to make a separate peace with Germany. The lack of
arms on the front, which had caused the great retreat of the
summer of 1915, the lack of food in the army and in the
great cities, the break-down of manufactures and transporta¬
tion in 1916—all these we know now were part of a gigantic
campaign of sabotage. This was halted just in time by the
March Revolution.

For the first few months of the new regime, in spite of
the confusion incident upon a great Revolution, when one
hundred and sixty millions of the world’s most oppressed
peoples suddenly achieved liberty, both the internal situa¬
tion and the combative power of the army actually improved.

But the “honeymoon” was short. The propertied classes
wanted merely a political revolution, which would take the
power from the Tsar and give it to them. They wanted Rus¬
sia to be a constitutional Republic, like France or the Unit¬
ed States; or a constitutional Monarchy, like England. On the
other hand, the masses of the people wanted real industrial
and agrarian democracy.

William English Walling, 1 in his book, “Russia’s Message,”
an account of the Revolution of 1905, describes very well the
state of mind of the Russian workers, who were later to sup¬
port Bolshevism almost unanimously:

They (the working people) saw it was possible that even under
a free Government, if it fell into the hands of other social classes,
they might still continue to starve....

The Russian workman is revolutionary, but he is neither violent,
dogmatic, nor unintelligent. He is ready for barricades, but he has
studied them, and alone of the workers of the world he has learned
about them from actual experience. He is ready and willing to fight
his oppressor, the capitalist class, to a finish. But he does not ig¬
nore the existence of other classes. He merely asks that the other
classes take one side or the other in the bitter conflict that draws
near....

They (the workers) were all agreed that our (American) political
institutions were preferable to their own, but they were not very
anxious to exchange one despot for another (i.e., the capitalist
class)....

The workingmen of Russia did not have themselves shot down,
executed by hundreds in Moscow, Riga and Odessa, imprisoned by
thousands in every Russian jail, and exiled to the deserts and the


•William English Walling (1877-1936), an American economist and sociol¬
ogist, the author of several books on the working-class movement and so¬
cialism. The book “Russia’s Message" was published in the U.S.A. in 1908.—


12



Arctic regions, in exchange for the doubtful privileges of the work¬
ingmen of Goldfields and Cripple Creek....

And so developed in Russia, in the midst of a foreign war,
the Social Revolution on top of the Political Revolution, cul¬
minating in the triumph of Bolshevism.

Mr. A. J. Sack, director in this country of the Russian In¬
formation Bureau, which opposes the Soviet Government,
has this to say in his book, “The Birth of the Russian Democ¬
racy”:

The Bolsheviki organised their own cabinet, with Nicholas Lenine
as Premier and Leon Trotzky—Minister of Foreign Affairs. The
inevitability of their coming into power became evident almost im¬
mediately after the March Revolution. The history of the Bolshevi¬
ki, after the Revolution, is a history of their steady growth....

Foreigners, and Americans especially, frequently empha¬
sise the “ignorance” of the Russian workers. It is true they
lacked the political experience of the peoples of the West,
but they were very well trained in voluntary organisation. In
1917 there were more than twelve million members of the
Russian consumers’ Co-operative societies; and the Soviets
themselves are a wonderful demonstration of their organis¬
ing genius. Moreover, there is probably not a people in the
world so well educated in Socialist theory ana its practical
application.

William English Walling thus characterises them:

The Russian working people are for the most part able to read
and write. For many years the country has been in such a disturbed
condition that they have had the advantage of leadership not only
of intelligent individuals in their midst, but of a large part of the
equally revolutionary educated class, who have turned to the work¬
ing people with their ideas for the political and social regeneration
of Russia....

Many writers explain their hostility to the Soviet Govern¬
ment by arguing that the last phase of the Russian Revolu¬
tion was simply a struggle of the “respectable” elements
against the brutal attacks of Bolshevism. However, it was the
propertied classes, who, when they realised the growth in
power of the popular revolutionary organisations, undertook
to destroy them and to halt the Revolution. To this end the
propertied classes finally resorted to desperate measures. In
order to wreck the Kerensky Ministry and the Soviets, trans¬
portation was disorganised and internal troubles provoked;
to crush the Factory-Shop Committees, plants were shut
down, and fuel and raw materials diverted; to break the Ar-


13










my Committees at the front, capital punishment was restored
and military defeat connived at.

This was all excellent fuel for the Bolshevik fire. The Bol-
sheviki retorted bv preaching the class war, and by asserting
the supremacy of the Soviets.

Between these two extremes, with the other factions which
whole-heartedly or half-heartedly supported them, were the
so-called “moderate” Socialists, the Mensheviki and Socialist
Revolutionaries, and several smaller parties. These groups
were also attacked by the propertied classes, but their power
of resistance was crippled by their theories.

Roughly, the Mensheviki and Socialist Revolutionaries be¬
lieved that Russia was not economically ripe for a social rev¬
olution—that only a political revolution was possible. Accord¬
ing to their interpretation, the Russian masses were not edu¬
cated enough to take over the power; any attempt to do so
would inevitably bring on a reaction, by means of which
some ruthless opportunist might restore the old regime. And
so it followed that when the “moderate” Socialists were
forced to assume the power, they were afraid to use it.

They believed that Russia must pass through the stages of
political and economic development known to Western Eu¬
rope, and emerge at last, with the rest of the world, into
full-fledged Socialism. Naturally, therefore, they agreed with
the propertied classes that Russia must first be a parliamen¬
tary state—though with some improvements on the Western
democracies. As a consequence, they insisted upon the collab¬
oration of the propertied classes in the Government.

From this it was an easy step to supporting them. The
“moderate” Socialists needed the bourgeoisie. But the bour¬
geoisie did not need the “moderate” Socialists. So it result¬
ed in the Socialist Ministers being obliged to give way, little
by little, on their entire programme, while the propertied
classes grew more and more insistent.

And at the end, when the Bolsheviki upset the whole hol¬
low compromise, the Mensheviki and Socialist Revolutiona¬
ries found themselves fighting on the side of the propertied
classes.... In almost every country in the world to-day the
same phenomenon is visible.

Instead of being a destructive force, it seems to me that
the Bolsheviki were the only party in Russia with a construc¬
tive programme and the power to impose it on the country.
If they had not succeeded to the Government when they did,
there is little doubt in my mind that the armies of Imperial
Germany would have been in Petrograd and Moscow in De¬
cember, and Russia would again be ridden by a Tsar....

It is still fashionable, after a whole year of the Soviet Gov¬
ernment, to speak of the Bolshevik insurrection as an “ad-


14






venture.” Adventure it was, and one of the most marvellous
mankind ever embarked upon, sweeping into history at the
head of the toiling masses, and staking everything on their
vast and simple desires. Already the machinery had been set
up by which the land of the great estates could be distributed
among the peasants. The Factory-Shop Committees and the
Trade Unions were there to put into operation workers’ con¬
trol of industry. In every village, town, city, district and pro¬
vince there were Soviets of Workers’, Soldiers’ and Peasants’
Deputies, prepared to assume the task of local administra¬
tion.

No matter what one thinks of Bolshevism, it is undeniable
that the Russian Revolution is one of the great events of hu¬
man history, and the rise of the Bolsheviki a phenomenon of
world-wide importance. Just as historians search the records
for the minutest details of the story of the Paris Commune,
so they will want to know what happened in Petrograd in
November, 1917, the spirit which animated the people, and
how the leaders looked, talked and acted. It is with this in
view that I have written this book.

In the struggle my sympathies were not neutral. But in tel¬
ling the story of those great days I have tried to see events
with the eye of a conscientious reporter, interested in setting
down the truth.


JR


New York, January 1st, 1919.






NOTES AND EXPLANATIONS 1


To the average reader the multiplicity of Russian organi¬
sations— political groups, Committees and Central Commit¬
tees, Soviets, Dumas and Unions—will prove extremely con¬
fusing. For this reason I am giving here a few brief defini¬
tions and explanations.

POLITICAL PARTIES

In the elections to the Constituent Assembly, there were
seventeen tickets in Petrograd, and in some of the provin¬
cial towns as many as forty; but the following summary of
the aims and composition of political parties is limited to the
groups and factions mentioned in this book. Only the essence
of their programmes and the general character of their con¬
stituencies can be noticed....

1. Monarchists, of various shades, Octobrists, etc. These
once-powerful factions no longer existed openly; they either
worked underground, or their members joined the Cadets,
as the Cadets came by degrees to stand for their political
programme. Representatives in this book, Rodzianko, Shul-
g in -

2. Cadets. So-called from the initials of its name. Consti¬
tutional Democrats. Its official name is “Party of the People’s
Freedom.” Under the Tsar, composed of Liberals from the
propertied classes, the Cadets were the great party of political
reform, roughly corresponding to the Progressive Party in
America. When the Revolution broke out in March, 1917,
the Cadets formed the first Provisional Government. The
Cadet Ministry was overthrown in April because it declared
itself in favour of Allied imperialistic aims, including the
imperialistic aims of the Tsar’s Government. As the Revolu¬
tion became more and more a social economic Revolution,


1 Despite some incorrectitudes the Notes and Explanations supplied by
John Reed are of considerable interest in that they show how thoroughly
he studied the political relationships in Russia before the November Revo¬
lution, and, more important still, give an insight into the political likes
and dislikes of the author and his evaluation of the different warring
parties and groups. — Ed.


16




the Cadets grew more and more conservative. Its represen¬
tatives in this book are: Miliukov, Vinaver, Shatsky.

2a. Group of Public Men. After the Cadets had become un¬
popular through their relations with the Kornilov counter¬
revolution, the Group of Public Men was formed in Moscow.
Delegates from the Group of Public Men were given portfolios
in the last Kerensky Cabinet. The Group declared itself non¬
partisan, although its intellectual leaders were men like Rod-
zianko and Shulgin. It was composed of the more “modern”
bankers, merchants and manufacturers, who were intelligent
enough to realise that the Soviets must be fought by their
own weapon—economic organisation. Typical of the Group:
Lianozov, Konovalov.

3. Populist Socialists, or Trudoviki (Labour Group). Numeri¬
cally a small party, composed of cautious intellectuals, the
leaders of the Co-operative societies, and conservative peas¬
ants. Professing to be Socialists, the Populists really sup¬
ported the interests of the petty bourgeoisie—clerks, shop¬
keepers, etc. By direct descent, inheritors of the compromis¬
ing tradition of the Labour Group in the Fourth Imperial
Duma, which was composed largely of peasant representa¬
tives. Kerensky was the leader of the Trudoviki in the Im¬
perial Duma when the Revolution of March, 1917, broke out.
The Populist Socialists are a nationalistic party. Their rep¬
resentatives in this book are: Peshekhonov, Tchaikovsky.

4. Russian Social Democratic Labour Party. Originally
Marxian Socialists. At a party congress held in 1903, the
party split, on the question of tactics, into two factions—
the Majority (Bolshinstvo), and the Minority (Menshinstvo).
From this sprang the names “Bolsheviki” and “Menshevi-
ki” — “members of the majority” and “members of the mino¬
rity.” These two wings became two separate parties, both
calling themselves “Russian Social Democratic Labour Party,”
and both professing to be Marxians. Since the Revolution
of 1905 the Bolsheviki were really the minority, becoming
again the majority in September, 1917.

a. Mensheviki. This party includes all shades of Socialists
who believe that society must progress by natural evolution
toward Socialism, and that the working-class must conquer
political power first. Also a nationalistic party. This was the
party of the Socialist intellectuals, which means: all the means
of education having been in the hands of the propertied
classes, the intellectuals instinctively reacted to their train¬
ing, and took the side of the propertied classes. Among their
representatives in this book are: Dan, Lieber, Tseretelli.

b. Mensheviki Internationalists. The radical wing of the
Mensheviki, internationalists, and opposed to all coalition
with the propertied classes; yet unwilling to break loose from

17

2 - 253







the conservative Mensheviki, and opposed to the dictatorship
of the working-class advocated by the Bolsheviki. Trotzky
was long a member of this group. Among their leaders: Mar¬
tov, Martinov.

c. Bolsheviki. Now call themselves the Communist Party,
in order to emphasise their complete separation from the
tradition of “moderate” or “parliamentary” Socialism, which
dominates the Mensheviki and the so-called Majority Social¬
ists in all countries. The Bolsheviki proposed immediate pro¬
letarian insurrection, and seizure of the reins of Govern¬
ment, in order to hasten the coming of Socialism by forcibly
taking over industry, land, natural resources and financial
institutions. This party expresses the desires chiefly of the
factory workers, but also of a large section of the poor
peasants. The name “Bolshevik” can not be translated by
“Maximalist.” The Maximalists are a separate group. (See
paragraph 5b.)

d. I’nited Social Democrats Internationalists. Also called
the Novaya Zhizn (New Life) group, from the name of the
very influential newspaper which was its organ. A little
group of intellectuals with a very small following among
the working-class, except the personal following of Maxim
Gorky, its leader. Intellectuals, with almost the same pro¬
gramme as the Mensheviki Internationalists, except that the
Novaya Zhizn group refused to be tied to either of the two
great factions. Opposed the Bolshevik tactics, but remained
in the Soviet Government. Other representatives in this
book: Avilov, Kramarov.

e. Yedinstvo. A very small and dwindling group, composed
almost entirely of the personal following of Plekhanov, one
of the pioneers of the Russian Social Democratic movement
in the 80’s, and its greatest theoretician. Now an old man,
Plekhanov was extremely patriotic, too conservative even
for the Mensheviki. After the Bolshevik coup d’etat, Yedinstvo
disappeared.

5. Socialist Revolutionary party. Called F.ssaires from the
initials of their name. Originally the revolutionary party of
the peasants, the party of the Fighting Organisations—the
Terrorists. After the March Revolution, it was joined by
many who had never been Socialists. At that time it stood
for the abolition of private properly in land only, the owners
to be compensated in some fashion. Finally the increasing
revolutionary feeling of peasants forced the Essaires to
abandon the “compensation” clause, and led to the younger
and more fiery intellectuals breaking off from the main party
in the fall of 1917 and forming a new party, the Left Social¬
ist Revolutionary party. I’he Essaires, who were afterward
always called by the radical groups “ Right Socialist Revolu-


18




tionaries, “ adopted the political attitude of the Mensheviki,
and worked together with them. They finally came to repre¬
sent the wealthier peasants, the intellectuals, and the politi¬
cally uneducated populations of remote rural districts.
Among them there was, however, a wider difference of
shades of political and economic opinion than among the
Mensheviki. Among their leaders mentioned in these pages:
Avksentiev, Gotz, Kerensky, Tchernov, “Babuschka” Bresh-
kovskaya.

a. Left Socialist Revolutionaries. Although theoretically
sharing the Bolshevik programme of dictatorship of the
working-class, at first were reluctant to follow the ruthless
Bolshevik tactics. However, the Left Socialist Revolutionaries
remained in the Soviet Government, sharing the Cabinet
portfolios, especially that of Agriculture. They withdrew
from the Government several times, but always returned. As
the peasants left the ranks of the Essaires in increasing
numbers, they joined the Left Socialist Revolutionary party,
which became the great peasant party supporting the Soviet
Government, standing for confiscation without compensation
of the great landed estates, and their disposition by the pea¬
sants themselves. Among the leaders: Spiridonova, Karelin,
Kamkov, Kalagayev.

b. Maximalists. An off-shoot of the Socialist Revolutionary
party in the Revolution of 1905, when it was a powerful peas¬
ant movement, demanding the immediate application of the
maximum Socialist programme. Now an insignificant group
of peasant anarchists.

PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE

Russian meetings and conventions are organised after the
Continental model rather than our own. The first action is
usually the election of officers and the presidium.

The presidium is a presiding committee, composed of rep¬
resentatives of the groups and political factions represented
in the assembly, in proportion to their numbers. The presid¬
ium arranges the Order of Business, and its members can be
called upon by the President to take the chair pro tern.

Each question ( vopros ) is stated in a general way and then
debated, and at the close of the debate resolutions are sub¬
mitted by the different factions, and each one voted on sepa¬
rately. The Order of Business can be, and usually is,
smashed to pieces in the first half hour. On the plea of
emergency,” which the crowd almost always grants, anybo¬
dy from the floor can get up and say anything on any sub¬
ject. The crowd controls the meeting, practically the only
functions of the Speaker being to keep order by ringing a


2 *


19





little bell, and to recognise speakers. Almost all the real work
of the session is done in caucuses of the different groups and
political factions, which almost always cast their votes in a
body and are represented by floor-leaders. The result is,
however, that at every important new point, or vote, the ses¬
sion takes a recess to enable the different groups and politi¬
cal factions to hold a caucus.

The crowd is extremely noisy, cheering or heckling
speakers, over-riding the plans of the presidium. Among
the customary cries are: “ Prosiml Please! Go on!” “ Pravil-
no!” or “ Eto viemo\ That’s true! Right!” “ Dovolnol
Enough!” “ Doloi\ Down with him !” “ Posorl Shame!” and
“ Teeschel Silence! Not so noisy!”

POPULAR ORGANISATIONS

1. Soviet. The word soviet means “council.” Under the Tsar
the Imperial Council of State was called Gosudarstvennyi
Soviet. Since the Revolution, however, the term Soviet has
come to be associated with a certain type of parliament elect¬
ed by members of working-class economic organisations—the
Soviet of Workers’, of Soldiers’, or of Peasants’ Deputies.
I have therefore limited the word to these bodies, and
wherever else it occurs I have translated it “Council.”

Besides the local Soviets, elected in every city, town and
village of Russia—and in large cities, also Ward (Raionny) So¬
viets —there are also the oblastne or gubemsky (district or
provincial) Soviets, and the Central Executive Committee of
the All-Russian Soviets in the capital, called from its initials
Tsay-ee-kah.(See below, “Central Committees”.)

Almost everywhere the Soviets of Workers’ and of Sol¬
diers’ Deputies combined very soon after the March Revolu¬
tion. In special matters concerning their peculiar interests,
however, the Workers’ and the Soldiers’ Sections continued
to meet separately. The Soviets of Peasants’ Deputies did not
join the other two until after the Bolshevik coup d’etat. They,
too, were organised like the workers and soldiers, with an
Executive Committee of the All-Russian Peasants’ Soviets in
the capital.

2. Trade Unions. Although mostly industrial in form, the
Russian labour unions were still called Trade Unions, and at
the time of the Bolshevik Revolution had from three to four
million members. These Unions were also organised in an
All-Russian body, a sort of Russian Federation of Labour,
which had its Central Executive Committee in the capital.

3. Factory-Shop Committees. These were spontaneous or¬
ganisations created in the factories by the workers in their
attempt to control industry, taking advantage of the adminis-


20




trative break-down incident upon the Revolution. Their
function was by revolutionary action to take over and run
the factories. The Factory-Shop Committees also had their
All-Russian organisation, with a Central Committee at Pet-
rograd, which co-operated with the Trade Unions.

4. Dumas. The word duma means roughly “deliberative
body.” The old Imperial Duma, which persisted six months
after the revolution, in a democratised form, died a natu¬
ral death in September, 1917. The City Duma referred to in
this book was the reorganised Municipal Council, often called
“Municipal Self-Government.” It was elected by direct and
secret ballot, and its only reason for failure to hold the
masses during the Bolshevik Revolution was the general de¬
cline in influence of all purely political representation in the
face of the growing power of organisations based on econom¬
ic groups.

5. Zemstvos. May be roughly translated “county councils.”
Under the Tsar semi-political, semi-social bodies with very
little administrative power, developed and controlled largely
by intellectual Liberals among the land-owning classes. Their
most important function was education and social service
among tne peasants. During the war the Zemstvos gradually
took over the entire feeding and clothing of the Russian
Army, as well as the buying from foreign countries, and
work among the soldiers generally corresponding to the
work of the American Y.M.C.A. at the Front. After the
March Revolution the Zemstvos were democratised, with a
view to making them the organs of local government in the
rural districts. But like the City Dumas, they could not com¬
pete with the Soviets.

6. Co-operatives. These were the workers’ and peasants’
Consumers’ Co-operative societies, which had several million
members all over Russia before the Revolution. Founded by
Liberals and “moderate” Socialists, the Co-operative move¬
ment was not supported by the revolutionary Socialist
groups, because it was a substitute for the complete trans¬
ference of means of production and distribution into the
hands of the workers. After the March Revolution the Co¬
operatives spread rapidly, and were dominated by Populist
Socialists, Mensheviki and Socialist Revolutionaries, and
acted as a conservative political force until the Bolshevik
Revolution. However, it was the Co-operatives which fed Rus¬
sia when the old structure of commerce and transportation
collapsed.

7. Army Committees. The Army Committees were formed by
the soldiers at the front to combat the reacuonary influence
of the old regime officers. Every company, regiment, bri¬
gade, division and corps had its committee, over all of


21







which was elected the Army Committee. The Central Army
Committee co-operated with the General Staff. The adminis¬
trative break-down in the army incident upon the Revolution
threw upon the shoulders of the Army Committees most of
the work of the Quartermaster’s Department, and in some
cases, even the command of troops.

8. Fleet Committees. The corresponding organisations in
the Navy.


CENTRAL COMMITTEES

In the spring and summer of 1917, All-Russian conven¬
tions of every sort of organisations were held at Petrograd.
There were national congresses of Workers’, Soldiers’ and
Peasants’ Soviets, Trade Unions, Factory-Shop Committees,
Army and Fleet Committees—besides every branch of the
military and naval service, Co-operatives, Nationalities, etc.
Each of these conventions elected a Central Committee, or
a Central Executive Committee, to guard its particular
interests at the seat of Government. As the Provisional
Government grew weaker, these Central Committees were
forced to assume more and more administrative powers.

The most important Central Committees mentioned in this
book are:

Union of Unions. During the Revolution of 1905, Profes¬
sor Miliukov and other Liberals established unions of profes¬
sional men—doctors* lawyers, physicians, etc. These were
united under one central organisation, the Union of Unions.
In 1905 the Union of Unions acted with the revolutionary de¬
mocracy; in 1917, however, the Union of Unions opposed the
Bolshevik uprising, and united the Government employees
who went on strike against the authority of the Soviets.

Tsay-ee-kah. All-Russian Central Executive Committee of
the Soviets of Workers’ and Soldiers’ Deputies. So called
from the initials of its name.

Tsentroflot. “Centre-Fleet” — the Central Fleet Committee.

Vikzhel. All-Russian Central Committee of the Railway
Workers’ Union. So called from the initials of its name.

OTHER ORGANISATIONS

Red Guards. The armed factory workers of Russia. The
Red Guards were first formed during the Revolution of 1905,
and sprang into existence again in the days of March, 1917,
when a force was needed to keep order in the city. At that
time they were armed, and all efforts of the Provisional
Government to disarm them were more or less unsuccessful.
At every great crisis in the revolution the Red Guards


22






appeared on the streets, untrained and undisciplined, but
full of revolutionary zeal.

White Guards. Bourgeois volunteers, who emerged in the
last stages of the revolution, to defend private property
from the Bolshevik attempt to abolish it. A great many of
them were university students.

Tekhintsi. The so-called “Savage Division” in the army,
made up of Mohammedan tribesmen from Central Asia, and
personally devoted to General Kornilov. The Tekhintsi were
noted for their blind obedience and their savage cruelty in
warfare.

Death Battalions. Or Shock Battalions. The Women’s Bat¬
talion is known to the world as the Death Battalion, but there
were many Death Battalions composed of men. These were
formed in the summer of 1917 by Kerensky, for the pur¬
pose of strengthening the discipline and combative fire of
the army by heroic example. The Death Battalions were com¬
posed mostly of intense young patriots. These came for the
most part from among the sons of the propertied classes.

Union of Officers. An organisation formed among the reac¬
tionary officers in the army to combat politically the grow¬
ing power of the Army Committees.

Knights of St. George. The Cross of St. George was award¬
ed for distinguished action in battle. Its holder automatically
became a “ Knight of St. George." The predominant influ¬
ence in the organisation was that of the supporters of the
military idea.

Peasants’ Union. In 1905, the Peasants’ Union was a revolu¬
tionary peasants’ organisation. In 1917, however, it had be¬
come the political expression of the more prosperous peas¬
ants, to fight the growing power and revolutionary aims of
the Soviets of Peasants’ Deputies.

CHRONOLOGY AND SPELLING

I have adopted in this book our Calendar throughout,
instead of the former Russian Calendar, which was thirteen
days earlier.

In the spelling of Russian names and words, I have made
no attempt to follow any scientific rules for transliteration,
but have tried to give the spelling which would lead the
English-speaking reader to the simplest approximation of
their pronunciation.


SOURCES

Much of the material in this book is from my own notes.
I have also relied, however, upon a heterogeneous file of
several hundred assorted Russian newspapers, covering al-


23






most every day of the time described, files of the English
paper, the Russian Daily News, and of the two French papers.
Journal de Rvssie and Entente. But far more valuable than
these is the Bulletin de la Presse issued daily by the French
Information Bureau in Petrograd, which reports all impor¬
tant happenings, speeches and the comment of the Russian
press. Of this I have an almost complete file from the
spring of 1917 to the end of January, 1918.

Besides the foregoing, I have in my possession almost
every proclamation, decree and announcement posted on the
walls of Petrograd from the middle of September, 1917 to
the end of January, 1918. Also the official publication of
all Government decrees and orders, and the official Govern¬
ment publication of the secret treaties and other documents
discovered in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when the Bol¬
shevik! took it over.
















Chapter I
BACKGROUND


Toward the end of September, 1917, an alien Professor of
Sociology visiting Russia came to see me in Petrograd. He
had been informed by business men and intellectuals that
the Revolution was slowing down. The Professor wrote an
article about it, and then travelled around the country, visit¬
ing factory towns and peasant communities—where, to his
astonishment, the Revolution seemed to be speeding up.
Among the wage-earners and the land-working people it was
common to hear talk of “all land to the peasants, all facto¬
ries to the workers.” If the Professor had visited the front,
he would have heard the whole Army talking Peace....

The Professor was puzzled, but he need not have been;
both observations were correct. The property-owning classes
were becoming more conservative, the masses of the people
more radical.

There was a feeling among business men and the intel¬
ligentsia generally that the Revolution had gone quite far
enough, and lasted too long; that things should settle down.
This sentiment was shared by the dominant “moderate” So¬
cialist groups, the oborontsi «1»‘ Mensheviki and Socialist Re¬
volutionaries, who supported the Provisional Government of
Kerensky.

On October the 14th the official organ of the “moderate”
Socialists 1 2 said:

The drama of Revolution has two acts; the destruction of the old
regime and the creation of the new one. The first act has lasted
long enough. Now it is time to go on to the second, and to play
it as rapidly as possible. As a great revolutionist put it, “Let us
hasten, friends, to terminate the Revolution. He who makes it last
too long will not gather the fruits....”

Among the worker, soldier and peasant masses, however,
there was a stubborn feeling that the “first act” was not yet
played out. On the front the Army Committees were always


1 For references thus marked see Appendix.

2 The reference is to the newspaper Izveslia TsIK which was at that time
m the hands of the Mensheviks and Socialist Revolutionaries.— Ed.


27



running foul of officers who could not get used to treating their
men like human beings; in the rear the Land Committees
elected by the peasants were being jailed for trying to carry
out Government regulations concerning the land; and the
workmen«2» in the factories were fighting black-lists and lock¬
outs. Nay, furthermore, returning political exiles were being
excluded from the country as “undesirable” citizens; and in
some cases, men who returned from abroad to their villages
were prosecuted and imprisoned for revolutionary acts com¬
mitted in 1905.

To the multiform discontent of the people the “moderate”
Socialists had one answer: Wait for the Constituent Assem¬
bly, which is to meet in December. But the masses were not
satisfied with that. The Constituent Assembly was all well
and good; but there were certain definite things for which
the Russian Revolution had been made, and for which the
revolutionary martyrs rotted in their stark Brotherhood
Grave on Mars Field, 1 that must be achieved. Constituent
Assembly or no Constituent Assembly: Peace, Land, and
Workers’ Control of Industry. The Constituent Assembly
had been postponed and postponed—would probably be
postponed again, until the people were calm enough—per¬
haps to modify their demands! At any rate, here were eight
months of the Revolution gone, and little enough to show for
it....

Meanwhile the soldiers began to solve the peace question
by simply deserting, the peasants burned manor-houses and
took over the great estates, the workers sabotaged and
struck.... Of course, as was natural, the manufacturers,
land-owners and army officers exerted all their influence
against any democratic compromise....

The policy of the Provisional Government alternated be¬
tween ineffective reforms and stern repressive measures. An
edict from the Socialist Minister of Labour ordered all the
Workers’ Committees henceforth to meet only after working-
hours. Among the troops at the front, “agitators” of op¬
position political parties were arrested, radical newspapers
closed down, and capital punishment applied—to revolution¬
ary propagandists. Attempts were made to disarm the Red
Guard. Cossacks were sent to keep order in the provinces....

These measures were supported by the “moderate” Social¬
ists and their leaders in the Ministry, who considered it
necessary to co-operate with the propertied classes. The peo¬
ple rapidly deserted them, and went over to the Bolsheviki,


1 Mars Field, a square in Petrograd (now Leningrad) where fighters
against the autocracy who fell during the March democratic revolution
were buried on Apnl 5, 1917. — Ed.


28







who stood for Peace, Land and Workers’ Control of Indus¬
try, and a Government of the working-class. In September,
1917, matters reached a crisis. Against the overwhelming
sentiment of the country, Kerensky and the “moderate” So¬
cialists succeeded in establishing a Government of Coalition
with the propertied classes; and as a result, the Mensheviki
and Socialist Revolutionaries lost the confidence of the peo¬
ple forever.

An article in Rabotchi Put (Workers’ Way) about the middle
of October, entitled “The Socialist Ministers,” expressed the
feeling of the masses of the people against the “moderate”
Socialists:

Here is a list of their services. «3»

Tseretelli: disarmed the workmen with the assistance of General
Polovtsev, checkmated the revolutionary soldiers, and approved of
capital punishment in the army.

Skobeliev: commenced by trying to tax the capitalists 100 per cent
of their profits, and finished—and finished by an attempt to dis¬
solve the Workers’ Committees in the shops and factories.

Avksentiev: put several hundred peasants in prison, members of
the Land Committees, and suppressed dozens of workers’ and
soldiers’ newspapers.

Tchernov: signed the “Imperial” manifesto, ordering the dissolu¬
tion of the Finnish Diet.

Savinkov: concluded an open alliance with General Korni¬
lov. If this saviour of the country was not able to betray Pet-
rograd, it was due to reasons over which he had no control.

Zarudny: with the sanction of Alexinsky and Kerensky, put
some of the best workers of the Revolution, soldiers and
sailors, in prison.

Nikitin: acted as a vulgar policeman against the Railway
Workers.

Kerensky: it is better not to say anything about him. The
list of his services is too long....

A Congress of delegates of the Baltic Fleet, at Helsingfors,
passed a resolution which began as follows:

We demand the immediate removal from the ranks of the Pro¬
visional Government of the “Socialist,” the political adventurer—
Kerensky, as one who is scandalising and ruining the great Revo¬
lution, and with it the revolutionary masses, by his shameless politi¬
cal blackmail on behalf of the bourgeoisie....

The direct result of all this was the rise of the Bolsheviki....

Since March, 1917, when the roaring torrents of workmen
and soldiers beating upon the Tauride Palace compelled the
reluctant Imperial Duma to assume the supreme power in
Russia, it was the masses of the people, workers, soldiers
and peasants, which forced every change in the course of


29







the Revolution. They hurled the Miliukov Ministry down: it
was their Soviet which proclaimed to the world the Russian
peace terms—“No annexations, no indemnities, and the right
of self-determination of peoples”; and again, in July, it was
the spontaneous rising of the unorganised proletariat which
once more stormed the Tauride Palace, to demand that the
Soviets take over the Government of Russia.

The Bolsheviki, then a small political sect, 1 put themselves
at the head of the movement. As a result of the disastrous
failure of the rising, public opinion turned against them, and
their leaderless hordes slunk back into the Viborg Quarter,
which is Petrograd’s St. Antoine.' 2 Then followed a savage
hunt of the Bolsheviki; hundreds were imprisoned, among
them Trotzky, 3 Madame Kollontai 4 and Kameniev; Lenin
and Zinoviev 5 went into hiding, fugitives from justice; the
Bolshevik papers were suppressed. Provocators and reaction¬
aries raised the cry that the Bolsheviki were German
agents, until people all over the world believed it.

But the Provisional Government found itself unable to sub¬
stantiate its accusations; the documents proving pro-German
conspiracy were discovered to be forgeries; 6 and one by one


1 Immediately after the March 1917 bourgeois revolution the Bolshevik
Party that had just emerged from the underground was comparatively small
in membership. — Ed.

2 St. Antoine, a Paris suburb famous for the militancy of its worker popu¬
lation in the revolutionary uprisings of the late eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries. The Viborg Quarter was a workers’ district in Petrograd.— Ed.

3 Trotzky (Bronstein), L. D., member of the Russian Social Democratic
Labour Party since 1897, a Menshevik. In the summer of 1917 joined the
Bolshevik Party. However, did not accept the Bolshevik line and conducted
both overt and covert struggle against Leninism and the policy of the Party.
For this activity was expelled from the Party in 1927.— Ed.

4 Kollontai, A. M. (1872-1952), member of the Bolshevik Party from 1915.
After the November Revolution, People’s Commissar of Public Welfare.

In 1920, head of the Women’s Department of the Central Committee of
the Communist Party. In 1921-22, Secretary of the International Women’s
Secretariat of the Comintern. From 1923, a prominent diplomat. — Ed.

5 Zinoviev (Radomyslsky), G. Y., deviated from Bolshevism on a number
of occasions and in the end broke with Marxism-Leninism altogether. In
November 1917 he and Kameniev committed an act of treachery by publish¬
ing an article in the Menshevik newspaper Novaya Zhhn, where he declared
his opposition to the Central Committee decision on an armed uprising, thus
disclosing the Bolshevik plan. In his letter to the members of the Bolshevik
Party, Lenin branded this act as strike-breaking and demanded that Zinoviev
and Kameniev be expelled from the Party. After the victory of the Novem¬
ber Revolution Zinoviev supported the idea of forming a coalition govern¬
ment with representatives of Mensheviks, Socialist Revolutionaries and
“Popular Socialists”. In 1927 Zinoviev was expelled from the Party for con¬
tinuous anti-party factional activity. — Ed.

6 Part of the famous “Sisson Documents.”

Sisson, a reactionary American journalist who published in the U.S.A.
a collection of anti-Soviet forgeries fabricated to discredit Bolshevik
leaders. — Ed.


30



r


the Bolsheviki were released from prison without trial, on
nominal or no bail — until only six remained. The impotence
and indecision of the ever-changing Provisional Government
was an argument nobody could refute. The Bolsheviki raised
again the slogan so dear to the masses, “All Power to the
Soviets!”—and they were not merely self-seeking, for at that
time the majority of the Soviets was “moderate” Socialist,
their bitter enemy.

But more potent still, they took the crude, simple desires
of the workers, soldiers and peasants, and from them built
their immediate programme. And so, while the oborontsi
Mensheviki and Socialist Revolutionaries involved themselves
in compromise with the bourgeoisie, the Bolsheviki rapidly
captured the Russian masses. In July they were hunted and
despised; by September the metropolitan workmen, the sail¬
ors of the Baltic Fleet, and the soldiers, had been won al¬
most entirely to their cause. The September municipal elec¬
tions in the large cities«4» were significant; only 18 per cent of
the returns were Menshevik and Socialist Revolutionary,
against more than 70 per cent in June....

There remains a phenomenon which puzzled foreign ob¬
servers: the fact that the Central Executive Committees of
the Soviets, the Central Army and Fleet Committees, 1 and
the Central Committees of some of the Unions—notably, the
Post and Telegraph Workers and the Railway Workers—op¬
posed the Bolsheviki with the utmost violence. These Central
Committees had all been elected in the middle of the sum¬
mer, or even before, when the Mensheviki and Socialist Rev¬
olutionaries had an enormous following; and they delayed or
prevented any new elections. Thus, according to the consti¬
tution of the Soviets of Workers’ and Soldiers’ Deputies, the
All-Russian Congress should have been called in September-,
but the Tsay-ee-kah would not call the meeting, on the ground
that the Constituent Assembly was only two months away, at
which time, they hinted, the Soviets would abdicate. Mean¬
while, one by one, the Bolsheviki were winning in the local
Soviets all over the country, in the Union branches and the
ranks of the soldiers and sailors. The Peasants’ Soviets re¬
mained still conservative, because in the sluggish rural dis¬
tricts political consciousness developed slowly, and the Social¬
ist Revolutionary party had been for a generation the party
which had agitated among the peasants.... But even among
the peasants a revolutionary wing was forming. It showed it¬
self clearly in October, when the left wing of the Socialist
Revolutionaries split off, and formed a new political faction,
the Left Socialist Revolutionaries.

1 See Notes and Explanations.


31








At the same time there were signs everywhere that the
forces of reaction were gaining confidence.«5» At the Troitsky
Farce Theatre in Petrograd, for example, a burlesque called
Sins of the Tsar was interrupted by a group of Monarchists,
who threatened to lynch the actors for “insulting the Em¬
peror.” Certain newspapers began to sigh for a “Russian
Napoleon.” It was the usual thing among bourgeois intel¬
ligentzia to refer to the Soviets of Workers’ Deputies (Rabo-
tchikh Deputatov) as Sabatchikh Deputatov—Dogs’ Deputies.

On October 15th I had a conversation with a great Russian
capitalist, Stepan Georgevitch Lianozov, known as the “Rus¬
sian Rockefeller”—a Cadet by political faith.

“Revolution,” he said, “is a sickness. Sooner or later the
foreign powers must intervene here—as one would intervene
to cure a sick child, and teach it how to walk. Of course it
would be more or less improper, but the nations must realise
the danger of Bolshevism in their own countries—such con¬
tagious ideas as ‘proletarian dictatorship,’ and ‘world social
revolution’.... There is a chance that this intervention may
not be necessary. Transportation is demoralised, the factories
are closing down, and the Germans are advancing. Starvation
and defeat may bring the Russian people to their senses....”

Mr. Lianozov was emphatic in his opinion that whatever
happened, it would be impossible for merchants and manu¬
facturers to permit the existence of the workers’ Shop Com¬
mittees, or to allow the workers any share in the manage¬
ment of industry.

“As for the Bolsheviki, they will be done away with by one
of two methods. The Government can evacuate Petrograd,
then a state of siege declared, and the military commander
of the district can deal with these gentlemen without legal
formalities.... Or if, for example, the Constituent Assembly
manifests any Utopian tendencies, it can be dispersed by force
of arms....”

Winter was coming on — the terrible Russian winter. I
heard business men speak of it so: “Winter was always Rus¬
sia’s best friend. Perhaps now it will rid us of Revolution.”
On the freezing front miserable armies continued to starve
and die, without enthusiasm. The railways were breaking
down, food lessening, factories closing. The desperate masses
cried out that the bourgeoisie was sabotaging the life of the
people, causing defeat on the front. Riga had been sur¬
rendered just after General Kornilov said publicly, "Must we
pay with Riga the price of bringing the country to a sense
of its duty?”

To Americans it is incredible that the class war should de¬
velop to such a pitch. But I have personally met officers on
the Northern Front who frankly preferred military disaster


32




to co-operation with the Soldiers’ Committees. The secretary
of the Petrograd branch of the Cadet party told me that the
break-down of the country’s economic life was part of a cam¬
paign to discredit the Revolution. An Allied diplomat, whose
name I promised not to mention, confirmed this from his
own knowledge. I know of certain coal-mines near Kharkov
which were fired and flooded by their owners, of textile fac¬
tories at Moscow whose engineers put the machinery out of
order when they left, of railroad officials caught by the
workers in the act of crippling locomotives....

A large section of the propertied classes preferred the Ger¬
mans to the Revolution—even to the Provisional Govern¬
ment—and didn’t hesitate to say so. In the Russian house¬
hold where I lived, the subject of conversation at the dinner-
table was almost invariably the coming of the Germans,
bringing “law and order.”... One evening I spent at the
house of a Moscow merchant; during tea we asked the eleven
people at the table whether they preferred “Wilhelm or the
Bolsheviki.” The vote was ten to one for Wilhelm....

The speculators took advantage of the universal disorga¬
nisation to pile up fortunes, ana to spend them in fantastic
revelry or the corruption of Government officials. Food¬
stuffs and fuel were hoarded, or secretly sent out of the
countiy to Sweden. In the first four months of the Revolu¬
tion, for example, the reserve food-supplies were almost
openly looted from the great Municipal warehouses of Pet¬
rograd, until the two-years’ provision of grain had fallen to
less than enough to feed the city for one month.... According
to the official report of the last Minister of Supplies in the
Provisional Government, coffee was bought wholesale in Vla¬
divostok for two roubles a pound, and the consumer in Pet¬
rograd paid thirteen. In all the stores of the large cities were
tons of food and clothing; but only the rich could buy them.

In a provincial town I knew a merchant family turned
speculator —maradior (bandit, ghoul) the Russians call it.
The three sons had bribed their way out of military service.
One gambled in foodstuffs. Another sold illegal gold from
the Lena mines to mysterious parties in Finland. The third
owned a controlling interest in a chocolate factory, which
supplied the local Co-operative societies—on condition that
the Co-operatives furnished him everything he needed. And
so, while the masses of the people got a quarter pound of
black bread on their bread cards, he had an abundance of
white bread, sugar, tea, candy, cake and butter.... Yet when
the soldiers at the front could no longer fight from cold,
hunger and exhaustion, how indignantly did this family
scream “Cowards!” — how “ashamed” they were “to be Rus¬
sians”.... When finally the Bolsheviki found and requisitioned

33

3 253







r


vast hoarded stores of provisions, what “Robbers” they were.

Beneath all this external rottenness moved the old-time
Dark Forces, unchanged since the fall of Nicholas the Sec¬
ond, secret still and very active. The agents of the notorious
Okhrana still functioned, for and against the Tsar, for and
against Kerensky—whoever would pay.... In the darkness,
underground organisations of all sorts, such as the Black
Hundreds, were busy attempting to restore reaction in some
form or other.

In this atmosphere of corruption, of monstrous half-truths,
one clear note sounded day after day, the deepening chorus
of the Bolsheviki, “All Power to the Soviets! All power to the
direct representatives of millions on millions of common
workers, soldiers, peasants. Land, bread, an end to the sense¬
less war, an end to secret diplomacy, speculation, treachery....
The Revolution is in danger, and with it the cause of the
people all over the world!”

The struggle between the proletariat and the middle class,
between the Soviets and the Government, which had begun
in the first March days, was about to culminate. Having at
one bound leaped from the Middle Ages into the twentieth
century, Russia showed the startled world two systems of
Revolution — the political and the social — in mortal combat.

What a revelation of the vitality of the Russian Revolution,
after all these months of starvation and disillusionment! The
bourgeoisie should have better known its Russia. Not for a
long time in Russia will the “sickness” of Revolution have
run its course....

Looking back, Russia before the November insurrection
seems of another age, almost incredibly conservative. So
quickly did we adapt ourselves to the newer, swifter life; just
as Russian politics swung bodily to the Left—until the Cadets
were outlawed as “enemies of the people,” Kerensky became
a “counter-revolutionist,” the “middle” Socialist leaders,
Tseretelli, Dan, Lieber, Gotz and Avksentiev, were too reac¬
tionary for their following, and men like Victor Tchernov,
and even Maxim Gorky, belonged to the Right Wing....

About the middle of December, 1917, a group of Socialist
Revolutionary leaders paid a private visit to Sir George Bu¬
chanan, the British Ambassador, and implored him not to
mention the fact that they had been there, because they were
“considered too far Right.”

“And to think,” said Sir George. “One year ago my Gov¬
ernment instructed me not to receive Miliukov, because he
was so dangerously Left!”

September and October are the worst months of the Rus¬
sian year—especially the Petrograd year. Under dull grey
skies, in the shortening days, the rain fell drenching, inces-


34






sant. The mud underfoot was deep, slippery and dinging,
tracked everywhere by heavy boots, and worse than usual
because of the complete break-down of the Municipal ad¬
ministration. Bitter damp winds rushed in from the Gulf of
Finland, and the chill fog rolled through the streets. At
night, for motives of economy as well as fear of Zeppelins,
the street-lights were few and far between; in private dwell¬
ings and apartment-houses the electricity was turned on
from six o’clock until midnight, with candles forty cents
apiece and little kerosene to be had. It was dark from three
in the afternoon to ten in the morning. Robberies and house¬
breakings increased. In apartment-houses the men took turns
at all-night guard duty, armed with loaded rifles. This was
under the Provisional Government.

Week by week food became scarcer. The daily allowance
of bread fell from a pound and a half to a pound, then
three-quarters, half, and a quarter-pound. Toward the end
there was a week without any bread at all. Sugar, one was
entitled to at the rate of two pounds a month—if one could
get it at all, which was seldom. A bar of chocolate or a pound
of tasteless candy cost anywhere from seven to ten roubles—
at least a dollar. There was milk for about half the babies
in the city; most hotels and private houses never saw it for
months. In the fruit season apples and pears sold for a little
less than a rouble apiece on the street-corner....

For milk and bread and sugar and tobacco one had to
stand in queue long hours in the chill rain. Coming home
from an all-night meeting I have seen the khvost (tail) begin¬
ning to form before dawn, mostly women, some with babies
in their arms.... Carlyle, in his French Revolution, had de¬
scribed the French people as distinguished above all others
by their faculty of standing in queue. Russia had accustomed
herself to the practice, begun m the reign of Nicholas the
Blessed as long ago as 1915, and from then continued inter¬
mittently until the summer of 1917, when it settled down as
the regular order of things. Think of the poorly-clad people
standing on the iron-white streets of Petrograd whole days in
the Russian winter! I have listened in the bread-lines, hear¬
ing the bitter, acrid note of discontent which from time to
time burst up through the miraculous good nature of the
Russian crowd....

Of course all the theatres were going every night, includ¬
ing Sundays. Karsavina appeared in a new ballet at the Ma-
rinsky, all dance-loving Russia coming to see her. Shaliapin
was singing. At the Alexandrinsky they were reviving Meyer-
hold’s 1 production of Tolstoy’s “Death of Ivan the Ter-


1 Meyerhold, V. E. (1874-1940), a Soviet theatre director and actor. — Ed.


3 *


35






rible”; and at that performance I remember noticing a stu¬
dent of the Imperial School of Pages, 1 in his dress uniform,
who stood up correctly between the acts and faced the empty
Imperial box, with its eagles all erased.... The Krivoye Zer-
kalo staged a sumptuous version of Schnitzler’s 2 “Reigen.”

Although the Hermitage and other picture galleries had
been evacuated to Moscow, there were weekly exhibitions of
paintings. Hordes of the female intelligentzia went to hear
lectures on Art, Literature and the Easy Philosophies. It was
a particularly active season for Theosophists. And the Sal¬
vation Army, admitted to Russia for the first time in history,
plastered the walls with announcements of gospel meetings,
which amused and astounded Russian audiences....

As in all such times, the petty conventional life of the city
went on, ignoring the Revolution as much as possible. The
poets made verses—but not about the Revolution. The realis¬
tic painters painted scenes from mediaeval Russian history—
anything but the Revolution. Young ladies from the prov¬
inces came up to the capital to learn French and cultivate
their voices, and the gay young beautiful officers wore their
gold-trimmed crimson bashliki and their elaborate Caucasian
swords around the hotel lobbies. The ladies of the minor
bureaucratic set took tea with each other in the afternoon,
carrying each her little gold or silver or jewelled sugar-box,
and half a loaf of bread in her muff, and wished that the
Tsar were back, or that the Germans would come, or any¬
thing that would solve the servant problem.... The daughter
of a friend of mine came home one afternoon in hysterics
because the woman street-car conductor had called her
“Comrade!”

All around them great Russia was in travail, bearing a new
world. The servants one used to treat like animals and pay
next to nothing, were getting independent. A pair of shoes
cost more than a hundred roubles, and as wages averaged
about thirty-five roubles a month the servants refused to
stand in queue and wear out their shoes. But more than that.
In the new Russia every man and woman could vote; there
were working-class newspapers, saying new and startling
things; there were the Soviets; and there were the Unions.
The izvoshtchiki (cab-drivers) had a Union; they were also
represented in the Petrograd Soviet. The waiters and hotel-
servants were organised, and refused tips. On the walls of
restaurants they put up signs which read, “No tips taken
here—” or, “Just because a man has to make his living wait-


1 Imperial School of Pages, a privileged military school in Tsarist Russia
for the children of generals and higher dignitaries.— Ed.

2 Arthur Schnitzler (1862-1931), an Austrian writer. — Ed.


36


ing on table is no reason to insult him by offering him a
tip!”

At the front the soldiers fought out their fight with the
officers, and learned self-government through their com¬
mittees. In the factories those unique Russian organisations,
the Factory-Shop Committees, 1 gained experience and
strength and a realisation of their historical mission by com¬
bat with the old order. All Russia was learning to read, and
reading —politics, economics, history—because the people
wanted to know.... In every city, in most towns, along the
front, each political faction had its newspaper—sometimes
several. Hundreds of thousands of pamphlets were distrib¬
uted by thousands of organisations, and poured into the
armies, the villages, the factories, the streets. The thirst for
education, so long thwarted, burst with the Revolution into a
frenzy of expression. From Smolny Institute alone, the first
six months, went out every day tons, car-loads, train-loads
of literature, saturating the land. Russia absorbed reading
matter like hot sand drinks water, insatiable. And it was not
fables, falsified history, diluted religion, and the cheap fiction
that corrupts—but social and economic theories, philosophy,
the works of Tolstoy, Gogol, and Gorky....

Then the Talk, beside which Carlyle’s “flood of French
speech” was a mere trickle. Lectures, debates, speeches—in
theatres, circuses, school-houses, clubs, Soviet meeting-rooms,
Union headquarters, barracks.... Meetings in the trenches at
the front, in village squares, factories.... What a marvellous
sight to see Putilovsky Zavod (the Putilov factory) pour out
its forty thousand to listen to Social Democrats, Socialist Rev¬
olutionaries, Anarchists, anybody, whatever they had to say,
as long as they would talk! For months in Petrograd, and all
over Russia, every street-corner was a public tribune. In rail¬
way trains, street-cars, always the spurting up of impromptu
debate, everywhere....

And the All-Russian Conferences and Congresses, draw¬
ing together the men of two continents—conventions of So¬
viets, of Co-operatives, Zemstvos, 2 nationalities, priests,
peasants, political parties; the Democratic Conference, the
Moscow Conference, the Council of the Russian Republic.
There were always three or four conventions going on in
Petrograd. At every meeting, attempts to limit the time of
speakers voted down, and every man free to express the
thought that was in him. ..


1 See Notes and Explanations.

The Petrograd conference of Factory-Shop Committees held on June 16
supported the Bolsheviks by an overwhelming majority (three quarters of
delegates). — Ed.

2 See Notes and Explanations.


37






We came down to the front of the Twelfth Army, back
of Riga, where gaunt and bootless men sickened in the mud
of desperate trenches; and when they saw us they started
up, with their pinched faces and the flesh showing blue
through their torn clothing, demanding eagerly, “Did you
bring anything to read}”

What though the outward and visible signs of change
were many, what though the statue of Catherine the Great
before the Alexandrinsky Theatre bore a little red flag in
its hand, and others—somewhat faded — floated from all pub¬
lic buildings; and the Imperial monograms and eagles were
either torn down or covered up; and in place of the fierce
gorodovoye (city police) a mild mannered and, unarmed citi¬
zen militia patrolled the streets—still, there were many quaint
anachronisms.

For example, Peter the Great’s Tabel o Rangah —Table of
Ranks—which he riveted upon Russia with an iron hand, still
held sway. Almost everybody from the schoolboy up wore his
prescribed uniform, with the insignia of the Emperor on but¬
ton and shoulder-strap. Along about five o’clock in the after¬
noon the streets were full of subdued old gentlemen in uni¬
form, with portfolios, going home from work in the huge,
barrack-like Ministries or Government institutions, calcu¬
lating perhaps how great a mortality among their superiors
would advance them to the coveted tchin (rank) of Collegiate
Assessor, or Privy Councillor, with the prospect of retire¬
ment on a comfortable pension, and possibly the Cross of St.
Anne 1 ....

There is the story of Senator Sokolov, who in full tide of
Revolution came to a meeting of the Senate one day in civil¬
ian clothes, and was not admitted because he did not wear
the prescribed livery of the Tsar’s service!

It was against this background of a whole nation in fer¬
ment and disintegration that the pageant of the Rising of
the Russian Masses unrolled....


1 The Cross of St. Anne, a tsarist decoration worn on a band round the
neck.— Ed.






Chapter II

THE COMING STORM


In September General Kornilov marched on Petrograd to
make himself military dictator of Russia. Behind him was
suddenly revealed the mailed fist of the bourgeoisie, bold¬
ly attempting to crush the Revolution. Some of the Socialist
Ministers were implicated; even Kerensky was under suspi¬
cion.® 1» Savinkov, summoned to explain to the Central Com¬
mittee of his party, the Socialist Revolutionaries, refused and
was expelled. Kornilov was arrested by the Soldiers’ Commit¬
tees. Generals were dismissed. Ministers suspended from
their functions, and the Cabinet fell.

Kerensky tried to form a new Government, including the
Cadets, party of the bourgeoisie. His party, the Socialist Rev¬
olutionaries, ordered him to exclude the Cadets. Kerensky
declined to obey, and threatened to resign from the Cabinet
if the Socialists insisted. However, popular feeling ran so
high that for the moment he did not dare oppose it, and a
temporary Directorate of Five 1 of the old Ministers, with Ke¬
rensky at the head, assumed the power until the question
should be setded.

The Kornilov affair drew together all the Socialist
groups—“moderates” as well as revolutionists—in a passion¬
ate impulse of self-defence. There must be no more Kor¬
nilovs. A new Government must be created, responsible to
the elements supporting the Revolution. So the Tsay-ee-kah
invited the popular organisations to send delegates to a Dem¬
ocratic Conference, which should meet at Petrograd in
September.

In the Tsay-ee-kah three factions immediately appeared.
The Bolsheviki demanded that the All-Russian Congress of
Soviets be summoned, and that they take over the power.
The “centre” Socialist Revolutionaries, led by Tchernov,
joined with the Left Socialist Revolutionaries, led by Katu¬
kov and Spiridonova, the Mensheviki Internationalists under
Martov, and the “centre” Mensheviki, 2 represented by Bog¬
danov and Skobeliev, in demanding a purely Socialist Gov-


1 The Provisional Directorate was made up of Kerensky, Nikitin, Tere¬
shchenko, Verkhovsky and Verderevsky.— Ed.

2 See Notes and Explanations.


39






ernment. Tseretelli, Dan and Lieber, at the head of the
right wing Mensheviki, and the right Socialist Revolution¬
aries under Avksentiev and Gotz, insisted that the propertied
classes must be represented in the new Government.

Almost immediately the Bolsheviki won a majority in the
Petrograd Soviet, and the Soviets of Moscow, Kiev, Odessa
and other cities followed suit.

Alarmed, the Mensheviki and Socialist Revolutionaries in
control of the Tsay-ee-kah decided that after all they feared
the danger of Kornilov less than the danger of Lenin.

They revised the plan of representation in the Democratic
Conference,«2» admitting more delegates from the Co-opera¬
tive Societies and other conservative bodies. Even this packed
assembly at first voted for a Coalition Government without the
Cadets. Only Kerensky’s open threat of resignation, and the
alarming cries of the “moderate” Socialists that “the Repub¬
lic is in danger” persuaded the Conference, by a small ma¬
jority, to declare in favour of the principle of coalition with
the bourgeoisie, and to sanction the establishment of a sort
of consultative Parliament, without any legislative power,
called the Provisional Council of the Russian Republic. In the
new Ministry the propertied classes practically controlled,
and in the Council of the Russian Republic they occupied a
disproportionate number of seats.

The fact is that the Tsay-ee-kah no longer represented the
rank and file of the Soviets, and had illegally refused to call
another All-Russian Congress of Soviets, due in September.
It had no intention of calling this Congress or of allowing it
to be called. Its official organ, Izvestia (News), began to hint
that the function of the Soviets was nearly at an end,«3» and
that they might soon be dissolved.... At this time, too, the
new Government announced as part of its policy the liquida¬
tion of “irresponsible organisations”—i.e., the Soviets.

The Bolsheviki responded by summoning the All-Russian
Soviets to meet at Petrograd on November 2, and take over
the Government of Russia. At the same time they withdrew
from the Council of the Russian Republic, stating that they
would not participate in a “Government of Treason to the
People. ”«4»

Tne withdrawal of the Bolsheviki, however, did not bring
tranquillity to the ill-fated Council. The propertied classes,
now in a position of power, became arrogant. The Cadets de¬
clared that the Gbvernment had no legal right to declare
Russia a republic. They demanded stern measures in the Ar¬
my and Navy to destroy the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Commit¬
tees, and denounced the Soviets. On the other side of the
chamber the Mensheviki Internationalists and the Left Social¬
ist Revolutionaries advocated immediate peace, land to the


40






peasants, and workers’ control of industry—practically the
Bolshevik programme.

I heard Martov’s speech in answer to the Cadets. Stooped
over the desk of the tribune like the mortally sick man he
was, and speaking in a voice so hoarse it could hardly be
heard, he shook his finger toward the right benches:

“You call us defeatists; but the real defeatists are those
who wait for a more propitious moment to conclude peace,
insist upon postponing peace until later, until nothing is left
of the Russian army, until Russia becomes the subject of bar¬
gaining between the different imperialist groups.... You are
trying to impose upon the Russian people a policy dictated
by the interests of the bourgeoisie. The question of peace
should be raised without delay.... You will see then that not
in vain has been the work of those whom you call German
agents, of those Zimmerwaldists 1 who in all the lands have
prepared the awakening of the conscience of the democratic
masses....”

Between these two groups the Mensheviki and Socialist
Revolutionaries wavered, irresistibly forced to the left by the
pressure of the rising dissatisfaction of the masses.

Deep hostility divided the chamber into irreconcilable
groups.

This was the situation when the long-awaited announce¬
ment of the Allied Conference in Paris brought up the burn¬
ing question of foreign policy....

Theoretically all Socialist parties in Russia were in favour
of the earliest possible peace on democratic terms. As long
ago as May, 1917, the Petrograd Soviet, then under control
of the Mensheviki and Socialist Revolutionaries, had pro¬
claimed the famous Russian peace conditions. They had de¬
manded that the Allies hold a conference to discuss war
aims. This conference had been promised for August; then
postponed until September; then until October; and now it
was fixed for November 10th. 2

The Provisional Government suggested two representa¬
tives—General Alexeyev, reactionary military man, and Tere-
stchenko. Minister of Foreign Affairs. The Soviets chose
Skobeliev to speak for them and drew up a manifesto, the
famous nakaz «5» — instructions. The Provisional Government
objected to Skobeliev and his nakaz; the Allied ambassadors
protested and finally Bonar Law in the British House of
Commons, in answer to a question, responded coldly, “As

1 Members of the revolutionary internationalist wing of the Socialists of
Europe, so-called because of their participation in the International Confer¬
ence held at Zimmerwald, Switzerland, in 1915.

2 The conference did not take place due to the fall of the Provisional
Government. — Ed.


41






far as I know the Paris Conference will not discuss the aims
of the war at all, but only the methods of conducting it....”

At this the conservative Russian press was jubilant, and the
Bolsheviki cried, “See where the compromising tactics of the
Mensheviki and Socialist Revolutionaries have led them!”

Along a thousand miles of the front millions of men in
Russia’s armies stirred like the sea rising, pouring into the
capital their hundreds upon hundreds of delegations, crying
“Peace! Peace!”

I went across the river to the Cirque Moderne, to one of
the great popular meetings which occurred all over the city,
more numerous night after night. The bare, gloomy amphi¬
theatre, lit by five tiny lights hanging from a thin wire, was
packed from the ring up the steep sweep of grimy benches
to the very roof—soldiers, sailors, workmen, women, all lis¬
tening as if their lives depended upon it. A soldier was
speaking—from the Five Hundred and Forty-eighth Division,
wherever and whatever that was:

“Comrades,” he cried, and there was real anguish in his
drawn face and despairing gestures. “The people at the top
are always calling upon us to sacrifice more, sacrifice more,
while those who have everything are left unmolested.

“We are at war with Germany. Would we invite German
generals to serve on our Staff? Well we’re at war with the
capitalists too, and yet we invite them into our Govern.-
ment....

“The soldier says, ‘Show me what I am fighting for. Is
it Constantinople, or is it free Russia? Is it the democracy,
or is it the capitalist plunderers? If you can prove to me that
I am defending the Revolution then I’ll go out and fight
without capital punishment to force me.’

“When the land belongs to the peasants, and the factories
to the workers, and the power to the Soviets, then we’ll know
we have something to fight for, and we’ll fight for it!”

In the barracks, the factories, on the street-comers, end¬
less soldier speakers, all clamouring for an end to the war,
declaring that if the Government did not make an energetic
effort to get peace, the army would leave the trenches and
go home.

The spokesman for the Eighth Army:

“We are weak, we have only a few men left in each com¬
pany. They must give us food and boots and reinforcements,
or soon there will be left only empty trenches. Peace or sup¬
plies ... either let the Government end the war or support
the Army....”

For the Forty-sixth Siberian Artillery:

“The officers will not work with our Committees, they be¬
tray us to the enemy, they apply the death penalty to our


42




agitators; and the counter-revolutionary Government sup¬
ports them. We thought that the Revolution would bring
peace. But now the Government forbids us even to talk of
such things, and at the same time doesn’t give us enough
food to live on, or enough ammunition to fight with....”

From Europe came rumours of peace at the expense of
Russia«6»....

News of the treatment of Russian troops in France added
to the discontent. The First Brigade had tried to replace its
officers with Soldiers’ Committees, like their comrades at
home, and had refused an order to go to Salonika, demand¬
ing to be sent to Russia. They had been surrounded and
starved, and then fired on by artillery, and many killed«7»....

On October 29th I went to the white-marble and crimson
hall of the Marinsky palace, where the Council of the Re¬
public sat, to hear Terestchenko’s declaration of the Govern¬
ment’s foreign policy, awaited with such terrible anxiety by
all the peace-thirsty and exhausted land.

A tall, impeccably-dressed young man with a smooth face
and high cheek-bones, suavely reading his careful, non-com¬
mittal speech.«8» Nothing.... Only the same platitudes about
crushing German militarism with the help of the Allies—
about the “state interests” of Russia, about the “embarras¬
sment” caused by Skobeliev’s naka? He ended with the key¬
note:

“Russia is a great power. Russia will remain a great pow¬
er, whatever happens. We must all defend her, we must
show that we are defenders of a great ideal, and children
of a great power.”

Nobody was satisfied. The reactionaries wanted a “strong”
imperialist policy; the democratic parties wanted an assur¬
ance that the Government would press for peace.... I repro¬
duce an editorial in Rnbotchi i Soldat (Worker and Soldier),
organ of the Bolshevik Petrograd Soviet:

The Government’s Answer to the Trenches

The most taciturn of our Ministers, Mr. Terestchenko, has actual¬
ly told the trenches the following:

1. We are closely united with our Allies. (Not with the peoples,
but with the Governments.)

2. There is no use for the democracy to discuss the possibility or
impossibility of a winter campaign. That will be decided by the Gov¬
ernments of our Allies.

3. The 1st of July offensive was beneficial and a very happy af¬
fair. (He did not mention the consequences.)

4. It is not true that our Allies do not care about us. The Minis¬
ter has in his possession very important declarations. (Declarations?
What about deeds? What about the behaviour of the British fleet?«9»
The parleying of the British king with exiled counter-revolutionary


43










General Gurko? The Minister did not mention all this.)

5. The nakaz to Skobeliev is bad; the Allies don’t like it and the
Russian diplomats don’t like it. In the Allied Conference we must
all “speak one language.”

And is that all? That is all. What is the way out? The solution is
faith in the Allies and in Terestchenko. When will peace come?
When the Allies permit.

That is how the Government replied to the trenches about peace!

Now in the background of Russian politics began to form
the vague outlines of a sinister power—the Cossacks. Novaya
Zhizn (New Life), Gorky’s paper, called attention to their
activities:

At the beginning of the Revolution the Cossacks refused to shoot
down the people. When Kornilov marched on Petrograd they re¬
fused to follow him. From passive loyalty to the Revolution the Cos¬
sacks have passed to an active political offensive (against it). From
the background of the Revolution they have suddenly advanced to
the front of the stage. ..

Kaledin, ataman of the Don Cossacks, had been dismissed
by the Provisional Government for his complicity in the Kor¬
nilov affair. He flatly refused to resign, and surrounded by
three immense Cossack armies lay at Novotcherkask, plotting
and menacing. So great was his power that the Government
was forced to ignore his insubordination. More than that, it
was compelled formally to recognise the Council of the
Union of Cossack Armies, and to declare illegal the newly-
formed Cossack Section of the Soviets....

In the first part of October a Cossack delegation called
upon Kerensky, arrogantly insisting that the charges against
Kaledin be dropped, and reproaching the Minister-President
for yielding to the Soviets. Kerensky agreed to let Kaledin
alone, and then is reported to have said, “In the eyes of the
Soviet leaders I am a despot and a tyrant.... As for the Provi¬
sional Government, not only does it not depend upon the So¬
viets, but it considers it regrettable that they exist at
all.”

At the same time another Cossack mission called upon the
British ambassador, treating with him boldly as represen¬
tatives of “the free Cossack people.”

In the Don something very like a Cossack Republic had
been established. The Kuban declared itself an independent
Cossack State. The Soviets of Rostov-on-Don and Yekaterin¬
burg were dispersed by armed Cossacks, and the headquar¬
ters of the Coal Miners’ Union at Kharkov raided. In all its
manifestations the Cossack movement was anti-Socialist and
militaristic. Its leaders were nobles and great land-owners.


44



like Kaledin, Kornilov, Generals Dutov, Karaulov and Bar-
dizhe, and it was backed by the powerful merchants and
bankers of Moscow....

Old Russia was rapidly breaking up. In the Ukraine, in Fin¬
land, Poland, White Russia, the nationalist movements gath¬
ered strength and became bolder. The local Governments,
controlled by the propertied classes, claimed autonomy, re¬
fusing to obey orders from Petrograd. At Helsingfors the
Finnish Senate declined to loan money to the Provisional
Government, declared Finland autonomous, and demanded
the withdrawal of Russian troops. The bourgeois Rada at
Kiev extended the boundaries of the Ukraine until they in¬
cluded all the richest agricultural lands of South Russia, as far
east as the Urals, and began the formation of a national army.
Premier Vinnitchenko hinted at a separate peace with Ger¬
many—and the Provisional Government was helpless. Siberia,
the Caucasus, demanded separate Constituent Assemblies.
And in all these countries there was the beginning of a bit¬
ter struggle between the authorities and the local Soviets
of Workers’ and Soldiers’ Deputies....

Conditions were daily more chaotic. Hundreds of thou¬
sands of soldiers were deserting the front and beginning to
move in vast, aimless tides over the face of the land. The
peasants of Tambov and Tver Governments, tired of waiting
for the land, exasperated by the repressive measures of the
Government, were burning manor-houses and massacring
land-owners. Immense strikes and lock-outs convulsed Mos¬
cow, Odessa and the coal-mines of the Don. Transportation
was paralysed; the army was starving and in the big cities
there was no bread.

The Government, torn between the democratic and reac¬
tionary factions, could do nothing: when forced to act it al¬
ways supported the interests of the propertied classes. Cos¬
sacks were sent to restore order among the peasants, to
break the strikes. In Tashkent, Government authorities sup¬
pressed the Soviet. In Petrograd the Economic Council, es¬
tablished to rebuild the shattered economic life of the coun¬
try, came to a deadlock between the opposing forces of capi¬
tal and labour, and was dissolved by Kerensky. The old re¬
gime military men, backed by Cadets, demanded that harsh
measures be adopted to restore discipline in the Army and
the Navy. In vain Admiral Verderevsky, the venerable Minis¬
ter of Marine, and General Verkhovsky, Minister of War, in¬
sisted that only a new, voluntary, democratic discipline, based
on co-operation with the soldiers’ and sailors’ committees,
could save the army and navy. Their recommendations were
ignored.

The reactionaries seemed determined to provoke popular


45





anger. The trial of Kornilov was coming on. More and more
openly the bourgeois press defended him, speaking of him
as “the great Russian patriot.” Burtzev’s 1 paper, Obshtch.ee
Dielo (Common Cause), called for a dictatorship of Kornilov,
Kaledin and Kerensky!

I had a talk with Burtzev one day in the press gallery of
the Council of the Republic. A small, stooped figure with
a wrinkled face, eyes near-sighted behind thick glasses, un¬
tidy hair and beard streaked with grey.

“Mark my words, young man! What Russia needs is a
Strong Man. We should get our minds off the Revolution
now and concentrate on the Germans. Bunglers, bunglers,
to defeat Kornilov; and back of the bunglers are the Ger¬
man agents. Kornilov should have won....”

On the extreme right the organs of the scarcely-veiled
Monarchists, Purishkevitch’s Narodny Tribun (People’s Trib¬
une), Novaya Rus (New Russia), and Zhivoye Slovo (Living
Word), openly advocated the extermination of the revolu¬
tionary democracy....

On the 23rd of October occurred the naval battle with a
German squadron in the Gulf of Riga. On the pretext that
Petrograd was in danger, the Provisional Government drew
up plans for evacuating the capital. First the great muni¬
tions works were to go, distributed widely throughout Rus¬
sia; and then the Government itself was to move to Moscow.
Instantly the Bolsheviki began to cry out that the Govern¬
ment was abandoning the Red Capital in order to weaken
the Revolution. Riga had been sold to the Germans; now Pe¬
trograd was being betrayed!

The bourgeois press was joyful. “At Moscow,” said the Ca¬
det paper Ryetch (Speech), “the Government can pursue its
work in a tranquil atmosphere, without being interfered with
by anarchists.” Rodzianko, leader of the right wing of the
Cadet party, declared in Utro Rossii (The Morning of Russia)
that the taking of Petrograd by the Germans would be a
blessing, because it would destroy the Soviets and get rid of
the revolutionary Baltic Fleet:

Petrograd is in danger (he wrote). I say to myself, “Let God take
care of Petrograd.” They fear that if Petrograd is lost the central
revolutionary organisations will be destroyed. To that I answer that
I rejoice if all these organisations are destroyed; for they will bring
nothing but disaster upon Russia....

With the taking of Petrograd the Baltic Fleet will also be de-


1 Burtzev, V. D., a liberal bourgeois publisher. His newspaper Obshlchee
Dielo (Common Cause) published in 1917 attacked the Bolsheviks. Soon after
the November Revolution Burtzev emigrated to Paris where he resumed the
publication of his paper which acquired a monarchist leaning.— Ed.


46





stroyed.... But there will be nothing to regret; most of the battle¬
ships are completely demoralised....

In the face of a storm of popular disapproval the plan of
evacuation was repudiated.

Meanwhile the Congress of Soviets loomed over Russia like
a thunder-cloud, shot through with lightnings. It was op¬
posed, not only by the Government but by all the “moder¬
ate” Socialists. The Central Army and Fleet Committees, the
Central Committees of some of the Trade Unions, the Peas¬
ants’ Soviets, but most of all the Tsay-ee-kah itself, spared no
pains to prevent the meeting. Izvestia and Golos Soldata (Voice
of the Soldier), newspapers founded by the Petrograd Soviet
but now in the hands of the Tsay-ee-kah, fiercely assailed it,
as did the entire artillery of the Socialist Revolutionary party
press, Dielo Naroda (People’s Cause) and Volia Naroda (Peo¬
ple’s Will).

Delegates were sent through the country, messages flashed
by wire to committees in charge of local Soviets, to Army
Committees, instructing them to halt or delay elections to the
Congress. Solemn public resolutions against the Congress,
declarations that the democracy was opposed to the meeting
so near the date of the Constituent Assembly, representatives
from the Front, from the Union of Zemstvos, the Peasants’
Union, Union of Cossack Armies, Union of Officers, Knights
of St. George, Death Battalions, 1 protesting.... The Council
of the Russian Republic was one chorus of disapproval. The
entire machinery set up by the Russian Revolution of March
functioned to block the Congress of Soviets....

On the other hand was the shapeless will of the proletar¬
iat—the workmen, common soldiers and poor peasants.
Many local Soviets were already Bolshevik; then there were
the organisations of the industrial workers, the Fabritchno-Za-
vodskiye Comitieti — Factory-Shop Committees; and the in¬
surgent Army and Fleet organisations. In some places the
people, prevented from electing their regular Soviet dele¬
gates, held rump meetings and chose one of their number to
go to Petrograd. In others they smashed the old obstruction¬
ist committees and formed new ones. A ground-swell of re¬
volt heaved and cracked the crust which had been slowly
hardening on the surface of revolutionary fires dormant all
those months. Only a spontaneous mass-movement could
bring about the All-Russian Congress of Soviets....

Day after day the Bolshevik orators toured the barracks
and factories, violently denouncing “this Government of civil
war.” One Sunday we went, on a top-heavy steam tram that


1 See Notes and Explanations.


47









lumbered through oceans of mud, between stark factories
and immense churches, to Obukhovsky Zavod, a Government
munitions-plant out on the Schlusselburg Prospekt.

The meeting took place between the gaunt brick walls of
a huge unfinished building, ten thousand black-clothed men
and women packed around a scaffolding draped in red, peo¬
ple heaped on piles of lumber and bricks, perched high up
on shadowy girders, intent and thunder-voiced. Through the
dull, heavy sty now and again burst the sun, flooding red¬
dish light through the skeleton windows upon the mass of
simple faces upturned to us.

Lunatcharsky, a slight, student-like figure with the sensi¬
tive face of an artist, was telling why the power must be tak¬
en by the Soviets. Nothing else could guarantee the Revolu¬
tion against its enemies, who were deliberately ruining the
country, ruining the army, creating opportunities for a new
Kornilov.

A soldier from the Rumanian front, thin, tragical and
fierce, cried, “Comrades! We are starving at the front, we
are stiff with cold. We are dying for no reason. I ask the
American comrades to carry word to America, that the Rus¬
sians will never give up their Revolution until they die. We
will hold the fort with all our strength until the peoples of
the world rise and help us! Tell the American workers to rise
and fight for the Sen ial Revolution!”

Then came Petrovsky, slight, slow-voiced, implacable:

“Now is the time for deeds, not words. The economic sit¬
uation is bad, but we must get used to it. They are trying
to starve us and freeze us. They are trying to provoke us.
But let them know that they can go too far—that if they dare
to lay their hands upon the organisations of the proletariat
we will sweep them away like scum from the face of the
earth!”

The Bolshevik press suddenly expanded. Besides the two
party papers, Rabotchi Put and Soldat (Soldier), there appeared
a new paper for the peasants, Derevenskaya Byednota (Village
Poorest), poured out in a daily half-million edition; and on
October 17th, Rabotchi i Soldat. Its leading article summed up
the Bolshevik point of view:

The fourth year’s campaign will mean the annihilation of the ar¬
my and the country.... There is danger for the safety of Petro-
grad.... Counter-revolutionists rejoice in the people’s misfortunes....
The peasants brought to desperation come out in open rebellion;
the landlords and Government authorities massacre them with pu¬
nitive expeditions; factories and mines are closing down, workmen
are threatened with starvation.... The bourgeoisie and its Generals
want to restore a blind discipline in the army.... Supported by the
bourgeoisie, the Kornilovtsi are openly getting ready to break up


48

















A meeting of soldiers in the Grenadiers’ Barracks in October 1917.
The speaker is a Baltic Fleet sailor






the meeting of the Constituent Assembly....

The Kerensky Government is against the people. He will destroy
the country.... This paper stands for the people and by the peo¬
ple—the poor classes, workers, soldiers and peasants. The people
can only be saved by the completion of the Revolution...and for
this purpose the full power must be in the hands of the Soviets....

This paper advocates the following:

All power to the Soviets—both in the capital and in the provinces.

Immediate truce on all fronts. An honest peace between peoples.

Landlord estates—without compensation—to the peasants.

Workers’ control over industrial production.

A faithfully and honestly elected Constituent Assembly.

It is interesting to reproduce here a passage from that
same paper—the organ of those Bolsheviki so well known to
the world as German agents:

The German kaiser, covered with the blood of millions of dead
people, wants to push his army against Petrograd. Let us call to
the German workmen, soldiers and peasants, who want peace not
less than we do, to...stand up against this damned war!

This can be done only by a revolutionary Government, which
would speak really for the workmen, soldiers and peasants of Rus¬
sia, and would appeal over the heads of the diplomats directly to
the German troops, fill the German trenches with proclamations in
the German language.... Our airmen would spread these proclama¬
tions all over Germany....

In the Council of the Republic the gulf between the two
sides of the chamber deepened day by day.

“The propertied classes,” cried Karelin, for the Left So¬
cialist Revolutionaries, “want to exploit the revolutionary ma¬
chine of the State to bind Russia to the war-chariot of the
Allies! The revolutionary parties are absolutely against this
policy....”

Old Nicholas Tchaikovsky, representing the Populist So¬
cialists, spoke against giving the land to the peasants, and
took the side of the Cadets:

“We must have immediately strong discipline in the ar¬
my.... Since the beginning of the war I have not ceased to
insist that it is a crime to undertake social and economic re¬
forms in war-time. We are committing that crime, and yet
I am not the enemy of these reforms, because I am a Social¬
ist.”

Cries from the Left, “We don’t believe you!” Mighty ap¬
plause from the Right....

Adzhemov, for the Cadets, declared that there was no ne¬
cessity to tell the army what it was fighting for, since every

49


4-253







soldier ought to realise that the first task was to drive the
enemy from Russian territory.

Kerensky himself came twice, to plead passionately for na¬
tional unity, once bursting into tears at the end. The as¬
sembly heard him coldly, interrupting with ironical remarks.

Smolny Institute, headquarters of the Tsay-ee-kah and of
the Petrograd Soviet, lay miles out on the edge of the city,
beside the wide Neva. I went there on a street-car, moving
snail-like with a groaning noise through the cobbled, muddy
streets, jammed with people. At the end of the line rose the
graceful smoke-blue cupolas of Smolny Convent outlined in
dull gold, beautiful; and beside it the great barracks-like fa¬
cade of Smolny Institute, two hundred yards long and three
lofty stories high, the Imperial arms carved hugely in stone
still insolent over the entrance....

Under the old regime a famous convent-school for the
daughters of the Russian nobility, patronised by the Tsarina
herself, the Institute had been taken over by the revolution¬
ary organisations of workers and soldiers. Within were more
than a hundred huge rooms, white and bare, on their doors
enamelled plaques still informing the passer-by that within
was “Ladies’ Class-room Number 4” or “Teachers’ Bureau”;
but over these hung crudely-lettered signs, evidence of the
vitality of the new order; “Central Committee of the Petro¬
grad Soviet” and “ Tsay-ee-kah “ and “Bureau of Foreign Af¬
fairs”; “Union of Socialist Soldiers,” “Central Committee of
the All-Russian Trade Unions,” “Factory-Shop Committees,”
“Central Army Committee”; and the central offices and cau¬
cus-rooms of the political parties....

The long, vaulted corridors, lit by rare electric lights, were
thronged with hurrying shapes of soldiers and workmen,
some bent under the weight of huge bundles of newspapers,
proclamations, printed propaganda of all sorts. The sound
of their heavy boots made a deep and incessant thunder on
the wooden floor.... Signs were posted up everywhere:
“Comrades! For the sake of your health, preserve cleanli¬
ness!” Long tables stood at the head of the stairs on every
floor, and on the landings, heaped with pamphlets and the
literature of the different political parties, for sale....

The spacious, low-ceilinged refectory downstairs was still a
dining-room. For two roubles I bought a ticket entitling me
to dinner, and stood in line with a thousand others, waiting
to get to the long serving-tables, where twenty men and
women were ladling from immense cauldrons cabbage soup,
hunks of meat and piles of kasha, slabs of black bread. Five
kopecks paid for tea in a tin cup. From a basket one grabbed
a greasy wooden spoon.... The benches along the wooden
tables were packed with hungry proletarians, wolfing their


50







food, plotting, shouting rough jokes across the room....

Upstairs was another eating-place, reserved for the Tsay-ee-
kah —though every one went there. Here could be had bread
thickly buttered and endless glasses of tea....

In the south wing on the second floor was the great hall
of meetings, the former ball-room of the Institute. A lofty
white room lighted by glazed-white chandeliers holding hun¬
dreds of ornate electric bulbs, and divided by two rows of
massive columns; at one end a dais, flanked with two tall
many-branched light standards, and a gold frame behind,
from which the Imperial portrait had been cut. Here on fes¬
tal occasions had been banked brilliant military and ecclesias¬
tical uniforms, a setting for Grand Duchesses....

Just across the hall outside was the office of the Creden¬
tials Committee for the Congress of Soviets. I stood there
watching the new delegates come in—burly, bearded soldiers,
workmen in black blouses, a few long-haired peasants. The
girl in charge—a member of Plekhanov’s Yedinstvo 1 group—
smiled contemptuously. “These are very different people
from the delegates to the first Siezd (Congress),” she re¬
marked. “See how rough and ignorant they look! The Dark
People....” It was true; the depths of Russia had been
stirred, and it was the bottom which came uppermost now.
The Credentials Committee, appointed by the old Tsay-ee-
kah, was challenging delegate after delegate, on the ground
that they had been illegally elected. Karakhan, member of
the Bolshevik Central Committee, simply grinned. “Never
mind,” he said, “when the time comes we’ll see that you get
your seats....”

Rabotchi i Soldat said:

The attention of delegates to the new All-Russian Congress is
called to attempts of certain members of the Organising Committee
to break up the Congress, by asserting that it will not take place,
and that delegates had better leave Petrograd.... Pay no attention to
these lies.... Great days are coming....

It was evident that a quorum would not come together by
November 2nd, so the opening of the Congress was post¬
poned to the 7th. But the whole country was now aroused;
and the Mensheviki and Socialist Revolutionaries, realising
that they were defeated, suddenly changed their tactics and
began to wire frantically to their provincial organisations to
elect as many “moderate” Socialist delegates as possible. At
the same time the Executive Committee of the Peasants’ So¬
viets issued an emergency call for a Peasants’ Congress, to


1 See Notes and Explanations.


4 *


51






meet December 13th and offset whatever action the workers
and soldiers might take....

What would the Bolsheviki do? Rumours ran through the
city that there would be an armed “demonstration,” a try s-
tuplennie —“coming out” of the workers and soldiers. The
bourgeois and reactionary press prophesied insurrection, and
urged the Government to arrest the Petrograd Soviet, or at
least to prevent the meeting of the Congress. Such sheets
as Novaya Rm advocated a general Bolshevik massacre.

Gorky’s paper, Novaya Zhizn, agreed with the Bolsheviki
that the reactionaries were attempting to destroy the Revo¬
lution, and that if necessary they must be resisted by force
of arms; but all the parties of the revolutionary democracy
must present a united front.

As long as the democracy has not organised its principal forces,
so long as the resistance to its influence is still strong, there is no
advantage in passing to the attack. But if the hostile elements ap¬
peal to force, then the revolutionary democracy should enter the
battle to seize the power, and it will be sustained by the most pro¬
found strata of the people....

Gorky pointed out that both reactionary and Government
newspapers were inciting the Bolsheviki to violence. An in¬
surrection, however, would prepare the way for a new Korni¬
lov. He urged the Bolsheviki to deny the rumours. Potressov,
in the Menshevik Dien (Day), published a sensational story, ac¬
companied by a map, which professed to reveal the secret
Bolshevik plan of campaign.

As if by magic, the walls were covered with warnings,«10»
proclamations, appeals, from the Central Committees of the
“moderate” and conservative factions and the Tsay-ee-kah,
denouncing any “demonstrations,” imploring the workers
and soldiers not to listen to agitators. For instance, this from
the Military Section of the Socialist Revolutionary party:

Again rumours are spreading around the town of an intended
vystuplennie. What is the source of these rumours? What organisa¬
tion authorises these agitators who preach insurrection? The Bol¬
sheviki, to a question addressed to them in the Tsay-ee-kah, denied
that they have anything to do with it.... But these rumours them¬
selves carry with them a great danger. It may easily happen that,
not taking into consideration the state of mind of the majority of
the workers, soldiers and peasants, individual hot-heads will call out
part of the workers and soldiers on the streets, inciting them to an
uprising.... In this fearful time through which revolutionary Russia
is passing, any insurrection can easily turn into civil war, and there
can result from it the destruction of all organisations of the pro¬
letariat, built up with so much labour.... The counter-revolutionary
plotters are planning to take advantage of this insurrection to de-


52




stroy the Revolution, open the front to Wilhelm, and wreck the
Constituent Assembly.... Stick stubbornly to your posts! Do not
come out!

On October 28th, in the corridors of Smolny, I spoke with
Katneniev, a little man with a reddish pointed beard and
Gallic gestures. He was not at all sure that enough delegates
would come. “If there is a Congress,” he said, “it will rep¬
resent the overwhelming sentiment of the people. If the ma¬
jority is Bolshevik, as I think it will be, we shall demand that
the power be given to the Soviets, and the Provisional Gov¬
ernment must resign....”

Volodarsky, a tall, pale youth with glasses and a bad com¬
plexion, was more definite. “The ’Lieber-Dans’ 1 and the
other compromisers are sabotaging the Congress. If they suc¬
ceed in preventing its meeting,—well, then we are realists
enough not to depend on thatl”

Under date of October 29th, I find entered in my note¬
book the following items culled from the newspapers of the
day:

Moghilev (General Staff Headquarters). Concentration here of
loyal Guard Regiments, the Savage Division, Cossacks and Death
Battalions.

The yunkers 1 of the Officers’ Schools of Pavlovsk, Tsarskoye Selo
and Peterhof ordered by the Government to be ready to come to
Petrograd. Oranienbaum yunkers arrive in the city.

Part of the Armoured Car Division of the Petrograd garrison
stationed in the Winter Palace.

Upon orders signed by Trotzky, several thousand rifles delivered
by tne Government Arms Factory at Sestroretzk to delegates of the
Petrograd workmen.

At a meeting of the City Militia of the Lower Liteiny Quarter,
a resolution demanding that all power be given to the Soviets.

This is just a sample of the confused events of those fever¬
ish days, when everybody knew that something was going to
happen, but nobody knew just what.

At a meeting of the Petrograd Soviet in Smolny, the night
of October SOth, Trotzky branded the assertions of the
bourgeois press that the Soviet contemplated armed insurrec¬
tion as “an attempt of the reactionaries to discredit and
wreck the Congress of Soviets.... The Petrograd Soviet,” he
declared, “had not ordered any vystuplennie. If it is neces¬
sary we shall do so, and we will be supported by the Petro¬
grad garrison.... They (the Government) are preparing a


'Lieber and Dan.

2 Yunkers, cadets of military schools that trained officers for the tsarist
armv from children of the gentry.— Ed.


53







counter-revolution; and we shall answer with an offensive
which will be merciless and decisive.”

It is true that the Petrograd Soviet had not ordered a de¬
monstration, but the Central Committee of the Bolshevik
party was considering the question of insurrection. All night
long the 23d they met. There were present all the party in¬
tellectuals, the leaders—and delegates of the Petrograd work¬
ers and garrison. Alone of the intellectuals Lenin and Tro-
tzky stood for insurrection. Even the military men opposed
it. A vote was taken. Insurrection was defeated!

Then arose a rough workman, his face convulsed with
rage. “I speak for the Petrograd proletariat,” he said, harsh¬
ly. “We are in favour of insurrection. Have it your own way,
but I tell you now that if you allow the Soviets to be de¬
stroyed, we’re through with you\” Some soldiers joined
him.... And after that they voted again — insurrection won. 1 ...

However, the right wing of the Bolsheviki, led by Riaza¬
nov, Kameniev and Zinoviev, continued to campaign against
an armed rising. On the morning of October 31st 2 appeared
in Rabotchi Put the first instalment of Lenin’s “Letter to the
Comrades,”«l 1» one of the most audacious pieces of political
propaganda the world has ever seen. In it Lenin seriously
presented the arguments in favour of insurrecdon, taking as
text the objections of Kameniev and Riazanov.

“Either we must abandon our slogan, ‘All Power to the So¬
viets,’” he wrote, “or else we must make an insurrecdon.
There is no middle course....”

That same afternoon Paul Miliukov, leader of the Cadets,
made a brilliant, bitter speech«12» in the Council of the Re¬
public, branding the Skobeliev nakaz as pro-German, declaring
that the “revolutionary democracy” was destroying Russia,


1 The debate on the armed uprising at the historic session of the Central
Committee of the Bolshevik Party in October 1917 is here reported incor¬
rectly. The decision to organise an armed uprising was taken at a closed
session of the Central Committee on October 23, 1917. The participating
members were Lenin, Bubnov, Dzerzhinsky, Zinoviev, Kameniev, Kollontai,
Lomov, Sverdlov, Sokolnikov, Stalin, Trotzky and Uritzky. Zinoviev and Ka¬
meniev voted against the resolution proposed by Lenin. Six days later, on
October 29, a broadened session of the Central Committee was held, attend¬
ed by representatives of the Petrograd Party Committee, the military organi¬
sation, the Petrograd Soviet, trade unions, Factory-Shop Committees, rail-
waymen, and the Petrograd District Party Committee. At this meeting Lenin
read out the resolution adopted by the previous session of the Central Com¬
mittee. In his speech Lenin pointed out that the objective political situa¬
tion both in Russia and in Europe prompted the most decisive, the most ac¬
tive policy, which could only mean an armed uprising. Lenin proposed a re-
soluuon that welcomed and supported the decision of the Central Commit¬
tee on the armed uprising. The resolution was passed by 19 votes to two,
with four abstaining. Zinoviev and Kameniev again voted against the reso¬
lution of the Central Committee. — Ed.

2 The date is incorrect. The issue appeared on November 1.— Ed.


54


sneering at Terestchenko, and openly declaring that he pre¬
ferred German diplomacy to Russian.... The Left benches
were one roaring tumult all through....

On its part the Government could not ignore the signif¬
icance of the success of the Bolshevik propaganda. On the
29th a joint commission of the Government and the Council
of the Republic hastily drew up two laws, one for giving the
land temporarily to the peasants, and the other for pushing
an energetic foreign policy of peace. The next day Kerensky
suspended capital punishment in the army. That same after¬
noon was opened with great ceremony the first session of the
new “Commission for Strengthening the Republican Regime
and Fighting Against Anarchy and Counter-Revolution”—of
which history shows not the slightest further trace.... The fol¬
lowing morning with two other correspondents I interviewed
Kerensky«13»—the last time he received journalists.

“The Russian people,” he said, bitterly, “are suffering
from economic fatigue—and from disillusionment with the
Allies! The world thinks that the Russian Revolution is at an
end. Do not be mistaken. The Russian Revolution is just be¬
ginning....” Words more prophetic, perhaps, than he knew.

Stormy was the all-night meeting of the Petrograd Soviet
the 30th of October, at which I was present. The “moderate”
Socialist intellectuals, officers, members of Army Committees,
the Tsay-ee-kah , were there in force. Against them rose up
workmen, peasants and common soldiers, passionate and
simple.

A peasant told of the disorders in Tver, which he said
were caused by the arrest of the Land Committees. “This
Kerensky is nothing but a shield to the pomieshtchiki (land-
owners),” he cried. “They know that at the Constituent As¬
sembly we will take the land anyway, so they are trying to
destroy the Constituent Assembly!”

A machinist from the Putilov works described how the
superintendents were closing down the departments one by
one on the pretext that there was no fuel or raw materials.
The Factory-Shop Committee, he declared, had discovered
huge hidden supplies.

“It is a provocalzia ,” said he. “They want to starve us—
or drive us to violence!”

Among the soldiers one began, “Comrades! I bring you
greetings from the place where men are digging their graves
and call them trenches!”

Then arose a tall, gaunt young soldier, with flashing eyes,
met with a roar of welcome. It was Tchudnovsky, reported
killed in the July fighting, and now risen from the dead.

“The soldier masses no longer trust their officers. Even
the Army Committees, who refused to call a meeting of our


55








Soviet, betrayed us.... The masses of the soldiers want the
Constituent Assembly to be held exacdy when it was called
for, and those who dare to postpone it will be cursed—and
not only platonic curses either, for the Army has guns
too....”

He told of the electoral campaign for the Constituent now
raging in the Fifth Army. ‘‘The officers, and especially the
Mensheviki and the Socialist Revolutionaries, are trying de¬
liberately to cripple the Bolsheviki. Our papers are not al¬
lowed to circulate in the trenches. Our speakers are arrest¬
ed—”

“Why don’t you speak about the lack of bread?” shouted
another soldier.

“Man shall not live by bread alone,” answered Tchudnov-
sky, sternly....

Followed him an officer, delegate from the Vitebsk Soviet,
a Menshevik oboronetz. “It isn’t the question of who has the
power. The trouble is not with the Government, but with the
war ... and the war must be won before any change—” At
this, hoots and ironical cheers. “These Bolshevik agitators
are demagogues!” The hall rocked with laughter. “Let us for
a moment forget the class struggle—” But he got no farther.
A voice yelled, “Don’t you wish we would!”

Petrograd presented a curious spectacle in those days. In
the factories the committee-rooms were filled with stacks of
rifles, couriers came and went, the Red Guard 1 drilled.... In
all the barracks meetings every night, and all day long inter¬
minable hot arguments. On the streets the crowds thickened
toward gloomy evening, pouring in slow voluble tides up and
down the Nevsky, fighting for the newspapers.... Hold-ups
increased to such an extent that it was dangerous to walk
down side streets.... On the Sadovaya one afternoon I saw a
crowd of several hundred people beat and trample to death
a soldier caught stealing.... Mysterious individuals circulated
around the shivering women who waited in queue long cold
hours for bread and milk, whispering that the Jews had cor¬
nered the food supply—and that while the people starved,
the Soviet members lived luxuriously....

At Smolny there were strict guards at the door and the
outer gates, demanding everybody’s pass. The committee-
rooms buzzed and hummed all day and all night, hundreds
of soldiers and workmen slept on the floor, wherever they
could find room. Upstairs in the great hall a thousand peo¬
ple crowded to the uproarious sessions of the Petrograd So¬
viet....


1 See Notes and Explanations.


56



Gambling clubs functioned hectically from dusk to dawn,
with champagne flowing and stakes of twenty thousand
roubles. In the centre of the city at night prostitutes in jewels
and expensive furs walked up and down, crowded the ca¬
fes....

Monarchist plots, German spies, smugglers hatching
schemes....

And in the rain, the bitter chill, the great throbbing city
under grey skies rushing faster and faster toward—what?







Chapter III
ON THE EVE


In the relations of a weak Government and a rebellious
people there comes a time when every act of the authorities
exasperates the masses, and every refusal to act excites their
contempt....

The proposal to abandon Petrograd raised a hurricane;
Kerensky’s public denial that the Government had any such
intention was met with hoots of derision.

Pinned to the wall by the pressure of the Revolution (cried
Rabotchi Put), the Government of “provisional” bourgeois
tries to get free by giving out lying assurances that it never
thought of fleeing from Petrograd, and that it didn’t wish to
surrender the capital....

In Kharkov 1 thirty thousand coal miners organised, adopt¬
ing the preamble of the I.W.W. 2 constitution: “The working
class and the employing class have nothing in common.” Dis¬
persed by Cossacks, some were locked out by the mine-
owners, and the rest declared a general strike. Minister of
Commerce and Industry Konovalov appointed his assistant,
Orlov, with plenary powers, to settle the trouble. Orlov was
hated by the miners. But the Tsay-ee-kah not only supported
his appointment, but refused to demand that the Cossacks
be recalled from the Don Basin....

This was followed by the dispersal of the Soviet at Kaluga.
The Bolsheviki, having secured a majority in the Soviet, set
free some political prisoners. With the sanction of the Gov¬
ernment Commissar the Municipal Duma called in troops
from Minsk, and bombarded the Soviet headquarters with
artillery. The Bolsheviki yielded, but as they left the build¬
ing Cossacks attacked them, crying, “This is what we’ll do
to all the other Bolshevik Soviets, including those of Moscow
and Petrograd!” This incident sent a wave of panic rage
throughout Russia....

In Petrograd was ending a regional Congress of Soviets
of the North, presided over by the Bolshevik Krylenko. By


1 John Reed here apparently meant the Donets Coal Basin.— Ed.

2 I.W.W., Industrial Workers of the World, a mass revolutionary trade
union organisation in the U.S.A. formed in 1905. In the ‘thirties it ceased
to exist, having degenerated into a sectarian organisation and having lost its
former ties with the masses. John Reed was an active member of I.W.W. in its
heyday. — Ed.


58


an immense majority it resolved that all power should be
assumed by the All-Russian Congress; and concluded by
greeting the Bolsheviki in prison, bidding them rejoice, for
the hour of their liberation was at hand. At the same time
the first All-Russian Conference of Factory-Shop Commit¬
tees* 1» declared emphatically for the Soviets, and continued
significandy:

After liberating themselves politically from Tsardom, the work¬
ing-class wants to see the democratic regime triumphant in the
sphere of its productive activity. This is best expressed by
Workers’ Control over industrial production, which naturally arose
in the atmosphere of economic decomposition created by the crim¬
inal policy of the dominating classes....

The Union of Railway men was demanding the resignation
of Liverovsky, Minister of Ways and Communications....

In the name of the Tsay-ee-kah, Skobeliev insisted that
the nakaz be presented at the Allied Conference, and formal¬
ly protested against the sending of Terestchenko to Paris.
Terestchenko offered to resign....

General Verkhovsky, unable to accomplish his reorganisa¬
tion of the army, only came to Cabinet meetings at long
intervals....

On November 3rd Burtzev’s Obshtchee Dielo came out with
great headlines:

Citizens! Save the fatherland!

I have just learned that yesterday, at a meeting of the Commis¬
sion for National Defence, Minister of War General Verkhovsky,
one of the principal persons responsible for the fall of Kornilov,
proposed to sign a separate peace, independently of the Allies.

That is treason to Russia!

Terestchenko declared that the Provisional Government had not
even examined Verkhovsky’s proposition.

“You might think,” said Terestchenko, “that we were in a mad¬
house!”

The members of the Commission were astounded at the Gener¬
al’s words.

General Alexcyev wept.

No! It is not madness! It is worse. It is direct treason to Russia!

Kerensky, Terestchenko and Nekrassov must immediately answer
us concerning the words of Verkhovsky.

Citizens, arise!

Russia is being sold!

Save her!

What Verkhovsky really said was that the Allies must be
pressed to offer peace, because the Russian army could fight
no longer....


59







Both in Russia and abroad the sensation was tremendous.
Verkhovsky was given “indefinite leave of absence for ill-
health,” and left the Government. Obshtchee Dielo was sup¬
pressed....

Sunday, November 4th, was designated as the Day of the
Petrograd Soviet, with immense meetings planned all over
the city, ostensibly to raise money for the organisation and
the press; really, to make a demonstration of strength. Sud¬
denly it was announced that on the same day the Cossacks
would hold a Krestni Khod —Procession of the Cross—in
honour of the Ikon of 1812, through whose miraculous in¬
tervention Napoleon had been driven from Moscow. The
atmosphere was electric; a spark might kindle civil war. The
Petrograd Soviet issued a manifesto, headed “Brothers—
Cossacks!”

You, Cossacks, are being incited against us, workers and sol¬
diers. This plan of Cain is being put into operation by our common
enemies, the oppressors, the privileged classes—generals, bankers,
landlords, former officials, former servants of the Tsar.... We are
hated by all grafters, rich men, princes, nobles, generals, includ¬
ing your Cossack generals. They are ready at any moment to de¬
stroy the Petrograd Soviet and crush the Revolution....

On the 4th of November somebody is organising a Cossack
religious procession. It is a question of the free consciousness of
every individual whether he will or will not take part in this pro¬
cession. We do not interfere in this matter, nor do we obstruct
anybody.... However, we warn you, Cossacks! Look out and see to
it that under the pretext of a Krestni Khod, your Kaledins do not
instigate you against workmen, against soldiers....

The procession was hastily called off....

In the barracks and the working-class quarters of the town
the Bolsheviki were preaching, “All Power to the Soviets!”
and agents of the Dark Forces were urging the people to
rise and slaughter the Jews, shop-keepers, Socialist leaders....

On one side the Monarchist press, inciting to bloody re¬
pression—on the other Lenin’s great voice roaring, “Insur¬
rection!... We cannot wait any longer!”

Even the bourgeois press was uneasy.«2» Birjevya Viedomo-
sti (Exchange Gazette) called the Bolshevik propaganda an at¬
tack on “the most elementary principles of society—personal
security and the respect for private property.”

But it was the “moderate” Socialist journals which were
the most hostile. «3» “The Bolsheviki are the most dangerous
enemies of the Revolution,” declared Dielo Naroda. Said
the Menshevik Dien, “The Government ought to defend it¬
self and defend us.” Plekhanov’s paper, Yedinstvo (Unity),«4»
called the attention of the Government to the fact that the


60







Petrograd workers were being armed, and demanded stern
measures against the Bolsheviki.

Daily the Government seemed to become more helpless.
Even the Municipal administration broke down. The columns
of the morning papers were filled with accounts of the most
audacious robberies and murders, and the criminals were
unmolested.

On the other hand armed workers patrolled the streets at
night, doing battle with marauders and requisitioning arms
wherever they found them.

On the 1st of November Colonel Polkovnikov, Military
Commander of Petrograd, issued a proclamation:

Despite the difficult days through which the country is passing,
irresponsible appeals to armed demonstrations and massacres are
still being spread around Petrograd, and from day to day robbery
and disorder increase.

This state of things is disorganising the life of the citizens, and
hinders the systematic work of the Government and the Municipal
Institutions.

In full consciousness of my responsibility and my duty before
my country, I command:

1. Every military unit, in accordance with special instructions
and within the territory of its garrison, to afford every assistance
to the Municipality, to the Commissars, and to the militia, in the
guarding of Government institutions.

2. The organisation of patrols, in co-operation with the District
Commander and the representatives of the city militia, and the
taking of measures for the arrest of criminals and deserters.

3. The arrest of all persons entering barracks and inciting to
armed demonstrations and massacres, and their delivery to the
headquarters of the Second Commander of the city.

4. To suppress any armed demonstration or riot at its start, with
all armed forces at hand.

5. To afford assistance to the Commissars in preventing un¬
warranted searches in houses and unwarranted arrests.

6. To report immediately all that happens in the district under
charge to the Staff of the Petrograd Military District.

I call upon all Army Committees and organisations to afford
their help to the commanders in fulfilment of the duties with which
they are charged.

In the Council of the Republic Kerensky declared that the
Government was fully aware of the Bolshevik preparations,
and had sufficient force to cope with any demonstration.«5»
He accused Novaya Rus and Rabotchi Put of both doing the
same kind of subversive work. “But owing to the absolute
freedom of the press,” he added, “the Government is not in a
position to combat printed lies....” 1 Declaring that these were


'This was not quite candid. The Provisional Government had suppressed
Bolshevik papers before, in July, and was planning to do so again.


61





two aspects of the same propaganda, which had for its object
the counter-revolution, so ardently desired by the Dark
Forces, he went on:

“I am a doomed man. It doesn’t matter what happens to
me, and I have the audacity to say that the other enigmatic
part is that of the unbelievable provocation created in the
city by the Bolsheviki!”

On November 2nd only fifteen delegates to the Congress of
Soviets had arrived. Next day there were a hundred, and the
morning after that a hundred and seventy-five, of whom one
hundred and three were Bolsheviki.... Four hundred consti¬
tuted a quorum, and the Congress was only three days off....


BoeHKO-Peeoniouioif.

KoAinrn


npn

IIETP. C. P H C. fl.


KOMIHflaMTfiHA


flponyeKt.

A aH0. cie /^cJy

OTfli/ll.

1917 r. cpOKOM'b no


f



Pass given to John Reed for entrance to Smolny


I spent a great deal of time at Smolny. It was no longer
easy to get in. Double rows of sentries guarded the outer
gates, and once inside the front door there was a long line
of people waiting to be let in, four at a time, to be ques¬
tioned as to their identity and their business. Passes were
given out, and the pass system was changed every few hours;
for spies continually sneaked through....

One day as I came up to the outer gate I saw Trotzky and
his wife just ahead of me. They were halted by a soldier.


62










Trotzky searched through his pockets, but could find no
pass.

“Never mind,” he said finally. “You know me. My name is
Trotzky.”

“You haven’t got a pass,” answered the soldier stubbornly.
“You cannot go in. Names don’t mean anything to me.”

“But I am the president of the Petrograd Soviet.”

“Well,” replied the soldier, “if you’re as important a fellow
as that you must at least have one little paper.”

Trotzky was very patient. “Let me see the Commandant,”
he said. The soldier hesitated, grumbling something about
not wanting to disturb the Commandant for every devil that
came along. He beckoned finally to the soldier in command
of the guard. Trotzky explained matters to him. “My name
is Trotzky,” he repeated.

“Trotzky?” The other soldier scratched his head. “I’ve
heard the name somewhere,” he said at length. “I guess it’s
all right. You can go on in, comrade....”

In the corridor I met Karakhan, member of the Bolshevik
Central Committee, 1 who explained to me what the new
Government would be like.

“A loose organisation, sensitive to the popular will as ex¬
pressed through the Soviets, allowing local forces full play.
At present the Provisional Government obstructs the action
of the local democratic will, just as the Tsar’s Government
did. The initiative of the new society shall come from
below.... The form of the Government will be modelled on
the Constitution of the Russian Social Democratic Labour
Party. The new Tsay-ee-kah, responsible to frequent meetings
of the All-Russian Congress of Soviets, will be the parlia¬
ment; the various Ministries will be headed by collegia —com¬
mittees— instead of by Ministers, and will be directly respon¬
sible to the Soviets....”

On October 30th, by appointment, I went up to a small,
bare room in the attic of Smolny, to talk with Trotzky. In
the middle of the room he sat on a rough chair at a bare
table. Few questions from me were necessary; he talked
rapidly and steadily, for more than an hour. The substance
of his talk, in his own words, I give here:

“The Provisional Government is absolutely powerless. The
bourgeoisie is in control, but this control is masked by a fic¬
titious coalition with the oborontsi parties. Now, during the
Revolution, one sees revolts of peasants who are tired of
waiting for their promised land; and all over the country, in
all the toiling classes, the same disgust is evident. This domi¬
nation by the bourgeoisie is only possible by means of civil


1 Karakhan was not a member of the Central Committee.— Ed.


63




war. The Kornilov method is the only way by which the
bourgeoisie can control. But it is force which the bourgeoisie
lacks.... The Army is with us. The conciliators and pacifists,
Socialist Revolutionaries and Mensheviki, have lost all author¬
ity—because the struggle between the peasants and the land¬
lords, between the workers and the employers, between the
soldiers and the officers, has become more bitter, more ir¬
reconcilable than ever. Only by the concerted action of the
popular mass, only by the victory of proletarian dictatorship,
can the Revolution be achieved and the people saved....

“The Soviets are the most perfect representatives of the
people—perfect in their revolutionary experience, in their
ideas and objects. Based directly upon the army in the
trenches, the workers in the factories, and the peasants in
the fields, they are the backbone of the Revolution.

“There has been an attempt to create a power without the
Soviets—and only powerlessness has been created. Counter¬
revolutionary schemes of all sorts are now being hatched in
the corridors of the Council of the Russian Republic. The
Cadet party represents the counter-revolution militant. On
the other side, the Soviets represent the cause of the people.
Between the two camps there are no groups of serious im¬
portance.... It is the lutte finale. The bourgeois counter-revo¬
lution organises all its forces and waits for the moment to
attack us. Our answer will be decisive. We will complete the
work scarcely begun in March, and advanced during the
Kornilov affair.... ’

He went on to speak of the new Government’s foreign pol¬
icy:

“Our first act will be to call for an immediate armistice
on all fronts, and a conference of peoples to discuss demo¬
cratic peace terms. The quantity of democracy we get in the
peace settlement depends on the quantity of revolutionary
response there is in Europe. If we create here a Government
of the Soviets, that will be a powerful factor for immediate
peace in Europe; for this Government will address itself di¬
rectly and immediately to all peoples, over the heads of their
Governments, proposing an armistice. At the moment of the
conclusion of peace the pressure of the Russian Revolution
will be in the direction of ‘no annexations, indemnities, the
right of self-determination of peoples,’ and a Federated Re¬
public of Europe....

“At the end of this war I see Europe re-created, not by
the diplomats, but by the proletariat. The Federated Repub¬
lic of Europe — the United States of Europe—that is what
must be. National autonomy no longer suffices. Economic
evolution demands the abolition of national frontiers. If
Europe is to remain split into national groups, then Impe-


64










rialism will recommence its work. Only a Federated Repub¬
lic of Europe can give peace to the world.” He smiled—that
fine, faindy ironical smile of his. ‘‘But without the action
of the European masses, these ends cannot be realised—
now....”

Now while everybody was waiting for the Bolsheviki to
appear suddenly on the streets one morning and begin to
shoot down people with white collars on, the real insurrec¬
tion took its way quite naturally and openly.

The Provisional Government planned to send the Petro-
grad garrison to the front.

The Petrograd garrison numbered about sixty thousand
men, who had taken a prominent part in the Revolution. It
was they who had turned the tide in the great days of March,
created the Soviets of Soldiers’ Deputies, and hurled back
Kornilov from the gates of Petrograd.

Now a large part of them were Bolsheviki. When the Pro¬
visional Government talked of evacuating the city, it was the
Petrograd garrison which answered, ‘‘If you are not capable
of defending the capital, conclude peace; if you cannot con¬
clude peace, go away and make room for a People’s Govern¬
ment which can do both....”

It was evident that any attempt at insurrection depend¬
ed upon the attitude of the Petrograd garrison. The Gov¬
ernment’s plan was to replace the garrison regiments with
“dependable” troops—Cossacks, Death Battalions. The
Army Committees, the “moderate” Socialists and the
Tsay-ee-kah supported the Government. A wide-spread agi¬
tation was carried on at the front and in Petrograd, empha¬
sising the fact that for eight months the Petrograd garrison
had been leading an easy life in the barracks of the capital,
while their exhausted comrades in the trenches starved and
died.

Naturally there was some truth in the accusation that the
garrison regiments were reluctant to exchange their compa¬
rative comfort for the hardships of a winter campaign. But
there were other reasons why they refused to go. The Pet¬
rograd Soviet feared the Government’s intentions, and from
the front came hundreds of delegates, chosen by the com¬
mon soldiers, crying, “It is true we need reinforcements,
but more important, we must know that Petrograd and the
Revolution are well-guarded.... Do you hold the rear, com¬
rades, and we will hold the front!”

On October 25th, behind closed doors, the Central Com¬
mittee of the Petrograd Soviet discussed the formation of a
special Military Committee to decide the whole question.
The next day a meeting of the Soldiers’ Section of the Pet-


5-253


65





rograd Soviet elected a Committee, which immediately pro¬
claimed a boycott of the bourgeois newspapers, and con¬
demned the Tsay-ee-kah for opposing the Congress of Soviets.
On the 29th, in open session of the Petrograd Soviet, Trotz-
ky proposed that the Soviet formally sanction the Military
Revolutionary Committee. “We ought,” he said, “to create
our special organisation to march to battle, and if necessary
to die....” It was decided to send to the front two delegations,
one from the Soviet and one from the garrison, to confer
with the Soldiers’ Committees and the General Staff.

At Pskov, the Soviet delegates were met by General Tche-
remissov, commander of the Northern Front, with the curt
declaration that he had ordered the Petrograd garrison to
the trenches, and that was all. The garrison committee was
not allowed to leave Petrograd....

A delegation of the Soldiers’ Section of the Petrograd So¬
viet asked that a representative be admitted to the Staff of
the Petrograd District. Refused. The Petrograd Soviet de¬
manded that no orders be issued without the approval of the
Soldiers’ Section. Refused. The delegates were roughly told,
“We only recognise the Tsay-ee-kah. We do not recognise
you; if you break any laws, we shall arrest you.”

On the 30th 1 a meeting of representatives of all the Pet¬
rograd regiments passed a resolution: “ The Petrograd gar¬
rison no longer recognises the Provisional Government. The
Petrograd Soviet is our Government. We will obey only the
orders of the Petrograd Soviet, through the Military Revo¬
lutionary Committee." The local military units were ordered
to wait for instructions from the Soldiers’ Section of the Pet¬
rograd Soviet.

Next day the Tsay-ee-kah summoned its own meeting, com¬
posed largely of officers, formed a Committee to co-operate
with the Staff, and detailed Commissars in all quarters of
the city.

A great soldier meeting at Smolny on the 3rd resolved:

Saluting the creation of the Military Revolutionary Com¬
mittee, the Petrograd garrison promises it complete support
in all its actions, to unite more closely the front and the rear
in the interests of the Revolution.

The garrison moreover declares that with the revolution¬
ary proletariat it assures the maintenance of revolutionary
order in Petrograd. Every attempt at provocation on the part
of the Kornilovtsi or the bourgeoisie will be met with merci¬
less resistance.

Now conscious of its power, the Military Revolutionary
Committee peremptorily summoned the Petrograd Staff to


•This meeting took place on October 31.— Ed.


66





submit to its control. To all printing plants it gave orders
not to publish any appeals or proclamations without the
Committee’s authorisation. Armed Commissars visited the
Kronverk arsenal and seized great quantities of arms and
ammunition, halting a shipment of ten thousand bayonets
which was being sent to Novotcherkask, headquarters of
Kaledin....

Suddenly awake to the danger, the Government offered
immunity if the Committee would disband. Too late. At
midnight November 5th Kerensky himself sent Malevsky
to offer the Petrograd Soviet representation on the
Staff. The Military Revolutionary Committee accepted. An
hour later General Manikovsky, acting Minister of War,
countermanded the offer....

Tuesday morning, November 6th, the city was thrown into
excitement by the appearance of a placard signed, “Military
Revolutionary Committee attached to the Petrograd Soviet
of Workers’ and Soldiers’ Deputies.”

To the Population of Petrograd. Citizens!

Counter-revolution has raised its criminal head. The Kor-
nilovtsi are mobilising their forces in order to crush the All-
Russian Congress of Soviets and break the Constituent As¬
sembly. At the same time the pogromists may attempt to call
upon the people of Petrograd for trouble and bloodshed.
The Petrograd Soviet of Workers’ and Soldiers’ Deputies
takes upon itself the guarding of revolutionary order in the
city against counter-revolutionary and pogrom attempts.

The Petrograd garrison will not allow any violence or dis¬
orders. The population is invited to arrest hooligans and
Black Hundred agitators and take them to the Soviet Com¬
missars at the nearest barracks. At the first attempt of the
Dark Forces to make trouble on the streets of Petrograd,
whether robbery or fighting, the criminals will be wiped
off the face of the earth!

Citizens! We call upon you to maintain complete quiet
and self-possession. The cause of order and Revolution is
in strong hands.

List of regiments where there are Commissars of the Mili¬
tary Revolutionary Committee....

On the 3rd the leaders of the Bolsheviki had another histo¬
ric meeting behind closed doors. Notified by Zalkind, 1 I
waited in the corridor outside the door; and Volodarsky as
he came out told me what was going on.

Lenin spoke: “November 6th will be too early. We must
have an all-Russian basis for the rising; and on the 6th all


'Zalkind, I. A., an active participant in the November uprising, member
of the Petrograd Bolshevik organisation.— Ed.


5*


67








the delegates to the Congress will not have arrived.... On
the other hand, November 8th will be too late. By that time
the Congress will be organised, and it is difficult for a large
organised body of people to take swift, decisive action. We
must act on the 7th, the day the Congress meets, so that we
may say to it, ’Here is the power! What are you going to do
with it?’”

In a certain upstairs room sat a thin-faced, long-haired
individual, once an officer in the armies of the Tsar, then
revolutionist and exile, a certain Avseenko, called Antonov,
mathematician and chess-player; he was drawing careful
plans for the seizure of the capital.

On its side the Government was preparing. Inconspicuous¬
ly certain of the most loyal regiments, from widely-separated
divisions, were ordered to Petrograd. The yunker artillery
was drawn into the Winter Palace. Patrols of Cossacks made
their appearance in the streets, for the first time since the
July days. Polkovnikov issued order after order, threatening
to repress all insubordination with the “utmost energy.”
Kishkin, Minister of Public Instruction, the worst-hated
member of the Cabinet, was appointed Special Commissar to
keep order in Petrograd; he named as assistants two men no
less unpopular, Rutenberg and Paltchinsky. Petrograd,
Cronstadt and Finland were declared in a state of siege—
upon which the bourgeois Novoye Vremya (New Times) re¬
marked ironically:

Why the state of siege? The Government is no longer a power.
It has no moral authority and it does not possess the necessary
apparatus to use force.... In the most favourable circumstances
it can only negotiate with any one who consents to parley. Its
authority goes no farther....

Monday morning, the 5th, I dropped in at the Marinsky
Palace, to see what was happening in the Council of the Rus¬
sian Republic. Bitter debate on Terestchenko’s foreign poli¬
cy. Echoes of the Burtzev-Verkhovski affair. All the di¬
plomats present except the Italian ambassador, who every¬
body said was prostrated by the Carso disaster....

As I came in, the Left Socialist Revolutionary Karelin was
reading aloud an editorial from the London Times which said,
“The remedy for Bolshevism is bullets!” Turning to the Ca¬
dets he cried, “That’s what you think, too!”

Voices from the Right, “Yes! Yes!”

“Yes, I know you think so,” answered Karelin, hotly. “But
you haven’t the courage to try it!”

Then Skobeliev, looking like a matinee idol with his soft
blond beard and wavy yellow hair, rather apologetically


68




defended the Soviet nakaz. Terestchenko followed, assailed
from the Left by cries of “Resignation! Resignation!” He
insisted that the delegates of the Government and of the
Tsay-ee-kah to Paris should have a common point of view—
his own. A few words about the restoration of discipline in
the army, about war to victory.... Tumult, and over the stub¬
born opposition of the truculent Left, the Council of the
Republic passed to the simple order of the day.

There stretched the rows of Bolshevik seats—empty since
that first day when they left the Council, carrying with them
so much life. As I went down the stairs it seemed to me that
in spite of the bitter wrangling, no real voice from the rough
world outside could penetrate this high, cold hall, and that
the Provisional Government was wrecked—on the same rock
of War and Peace that had wrecked the Miliukov Ministry....
The doorman grumbled as he put on my coat, “I don’t know
what is becoming of poor Russia. All these Mensheviki and
Bolsheviki and Trudoviki.... This Ukraine and this Finland
and the German imperialists and the English imperialists.
1 am forty-five years old, and in all my life I never heard
so many words as in this place....”

In the corridor I met Professor Shatsky, a rat-faced indi¬
vidual in a dapper frock-coat, very influential in the councils
of the Cadet party. I asked him what he thought of the
much-talked-of Bolshevik vystuplennie . He shrugged, sneer¬
ing.

“They are cattle— canaille ,” he answered. “They will not
dare, or if they dare they will soon be sent flying. From our
point of view it will not be bad, for then they will ruin them¬
selves and have no power in the Constituent Assembly....

“But, my dear sir, allow me to outline to you my plan for a
form of Government to be submitted to the Constituent As¬
sembly. You see, I am chairman of a commission appointed
from this body, in conjunction with the Provisional Govern¬
ment, to work out a constitutional project.... We will have a
legislative assembly of two chambers, such as you have in the
United States. In the lower chamber will be territorial repre¬
sentatives; in the upper, representatives of the liberal pro¬
fessions, zemstvos, Co-operatives—and Trade Unions....”

Outside a chill, damp wind came from the west, and the
cold mud underfoot soaked through my shoes. Two com¬
panies of yunkers passed swinging up the Morskaya, tramp¬
ing stiffly in their long coats and singing an old-time crash¬
ing chorus, such as the soldiers used to sing under the
Tsar.... At the first cross-street I noticed that the City Mili¬
tiamen were mounted, and armed with revolvers in bright
new holsters; a litde group of people stood silendy staring
at them. At the corner of the Nevsky I bought a pamph-


69








let by Lenin, “Will the Bolsheviki Be Able to Hold the Pow¬
er?” paying for it with one of the stamps which did duty for
small change. The usual street-cars crawled past, citizens
and soldiers clinging to the outside in a way to make Theo¬
dore P. Shonts 1 green with envy.... Along the sidewalk a
row of deserters in uniform sold cigarettes and sunflower
seeds....

Up the Nevsky in the sour twilight crowds were batding
for the latest papers, and knots of people were trying to
make out the multitudes of appeals«6» and proclamations
pasted in every flat place; from the Tsay-ee-kah, the Peasants’
Soviets, the “moderate” Socialist parties, the Army Commit¬
tees—threatening, cursing, beseeching the workers and sol¬
diers to stay home, to support the Government....

An armoured automobile went slowly up and down, siren
screaming. On every corner, in every open space, thick
groups were clustered; arguing soldiers and students. Night
came swiftly down, the wide-spaced street-lights flickered
on, the tides of people flowed endlessly.... It is always like
that in Petrograd just before trouble....

The city was nervous, starting at every sharp sound. But
still no sign from the Bolsheviki; the soldiers stayed in the
barracks, the workmen in the factories.... We went to a
moving picture show near the Kazan Cathedral—a bloody
Italian film of passion and intrigue. Down front were some
soldiers and sailors, staring at the screen in childlike won¬
der, totally unable to comprehend why there should be so
much violent running about, and so much homicide....

From there I hurried to Smolny. In room 10 on the top
floor, the Military Revolutionary Committee sat in contin¬
uous session, under the chairmanship of a tow-headed,
eighteen-year-old boy named Lazimir. He stopped, as he
passed, to shake hands rather bashfully.

“Peter-Paul Fortress has just come over to us,” said he,
with a pleased grin. “A minute ago we got word from a re¬
giment that was ordered by the government to come to Pet¬
rograd. The men were suspicious, so they stopped the train
at Gatchina and sent a delegation to us. ‘What’s the matter?’
they asked. ‘What have you got to say? We have just passed
a resolution, “All Power to the Soviets.’”... The Military
Revolutionary Committee sent back word, ‘Brothers! We
greet you in the name of the Revolution. Stay where you are
until further instructions!”’

All telephones, he said, were cut off: but communication
with the factories and barracks was established by means of
military telephonograph apparatus....


1 Theodore P. Shonts, an acrobat popular at that time.— Ed.


70








A steady stream of couriers and Commissars came and
went. Oqtside the door waited a dozen volunteers, ready
to carry word to the farthest quarters of the city. One of
them, a gypsy-faced man in the uniform of a lieutenant, said
in French, “Everything is ready to move at the push of a
button....”

There passed Podvoisky, the thin, bearded civilian whose
brain conceived the strategy of insurrection; Antonov, un¬
shaven, his collar filthy, drunk with loss of sleep; Krylen¬
ko, the squat, wide-faced soldier, always smiling, with his
violent gestures and tumbling speech; and Dybenko, the
giant bearded sailor with the placid face. These were the
men of the hour—and of other hours to come.

Downstairs in the office of the Factory-Shop Committees
sat Seratov, signing orders on the Government Arsenal for
arms—one hundred and fifty rifles for each factory.... Del¬
egates waited in line, forty of them....

In the hall I ran into some of the minor Bolshevik lead¬
ers. One showed me a revolver. “The game is on,” he said,
and his face was pale. “Whether we move or not, the other
side knows it must finish us or be finished....”

The Petrograd Soviet was meeting day and night. As
I came into the great hall Trotzky was just finishing.

“We are asked,” he said, “if we intend to have a vystuplen-
nie. I can give a clear answer to that question. The Petro¬
grad Soviet feels that at last the moment has arrived when
the power must fall into the hands of the Soviets. This
transfer of government will be accomplished by the All-Rus¬
sian Congress. Whether an armed demonstration is necessary
will depend on ... those who wish to interfere with the All-
Russian Congress....

“We feel that our Government, entrusted to the personnel
of the Provisional Cabinet, is a pitiful and helpless Govern¬
ment, which only awaits the sweep of the broom of History
to give way to a really popular Government. But we are try¬
ing to avoid a conflict, even now, to-day. We hope that the
All-Russian Congress will take ... into its hands that power
and authority which rests upon the organised freedom of the
people. If, however, the Government wants to utilise the
short period it is expected to live — twenty-four, forty-eight,
or seventy-two hours—to attack us, then we shall answer with
counter-attacks, blow for blow, steel for iron!”

Amid cheers he announced that the Left Socialist Revolu¬
tionaries had agreed to send representatives into the Mili¬
tary Revolutionary Committee....

As I left Smolny, at three o’clock in the morning, I no¬
ticed that two rapid-firing guns had been mounted, one on
each side of the door, and that strong patrols of soldiers


71








guarded the gates and the near-by street-corners. Bill Sha-
tov 1 came bounding up the steps. “Well,” he cried, “We’re
off! Kerensky sent the yunkers to close down our papers,
Soldat and Rabotchi Put But our troops went down and
smashed the Government seals, and now we’re sending de¬
tachments to seize the bourgeois newspaper offices!” Exult¬
antly he slapped me on the shoulder, and ran in....

On the morning of the 6th I had business with the censor,
whose office was in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Every¬
where, on all the walls, hysterical appeals to the people to
remain “calm.” Polkovnikov emitted pnkaz after prikaz:

I order all military units and detachments to remain in their
barracks until further orders from the Staff of the Military Dis¬
trict.... All officers who act without orders from their superiors
will be court-martialled for mutiny. I forbid absolutely any exe¬
cution by soldiers of instructions from other organisations....

The morning papers announced that the Government had
suppressed the papers Novaya Rus, Zhivoye Slovo, Rabotchi
Put and Soldat, and decreed the arrest of the leaders of the
Petrograd Soviet and the members of the Military Revolu¬
tionary Committee....

As I crossed the Palace Square several batteries of yunker
artillery came through the Red Arch at a jingling trot, and
drew up before the Palace. The great red building of the
General Staff was unusually animated, several armoured
automobiles ranked before the door, and motors full of of¬
ficers were coming and going.... The censor was very much
excited, like a small boy at a circus. Kerensky, he said, had
just gone to the Council of the Republic to offer his resig¬
nation. I hurried down to the Marinsky Palace, arriving at
the end of that passionate and almost incoherent speech
of Kerensky’s, full of self-justification and bitter denuncia¬
tion of his enemies.

“I will cite here the most characteristic passage from a
whole series of articles published in Rabotchi Put by Ulianov-
Lenin, a state criminal who is in hiding and whom we are
trying to find.... This state criminal has invited the prole¬
tariat and the Petrograd garrison to repeat the experience
of the 16th-18th of July, and insists upon the immediate
necessity for an armed rising.... Moreover, other Bolshevik


'Well known in the American labour movement. (Shatov, Vladimir Ser¬
geyevich, who in June 1917 returned from America, where he had been
one of the organisers of the Industrial Workers of the World; in 1917
he was a member of the Military Revolutionary Committee of Petrograd
and member of the Presidium of the Central Council of Factory-Shop
Committees. Later he joined the Communist Party.— Ed. )


72




leaders have taken the floor in a series of meetings, and
also made an appeal to immediate insurrection. Particularly
should be noticed the activity of the present president of
the Petrograd Soviet, Bronstein-Trotzky....

“I ought to bring to your notice ... that the expressions
and the style of a whole series of articles in Rabotchi Put and
Soldat resemble alsolutely those of Novaya Rus.... We have
to do not so much with the movement of such and such po¬
litical party, as with the exploitation of the political ignorance
and criminal instincts of a part of the population, a sort of
organisation whose object it is to provoke in Russia, cost
what it may, a movement of destruction and pillage; for
given the state of mind of the masses, any movement at Pet¬
rograd will be followed by the most terrible massacres, which
will cover with eternal shame the name of free Russia.

”...By the admission of Ulianov-Lenin himself, the situa¬
tion of the extreme left wing of the Social Democrats in Rus¬
sia is very favourable." (Here Kerensky read the following
quotation from Lenin’s article):

Think of it!... The German comrades have only one Liebknecht,
without newspapers, without freedom of meeting, without a So¬
viet.... They are opposed by the incredible hostility of all classes
of society—and yet the German comrades try to act; while we,
having dozens of newspapers, freedom of meeting, the majority
of the Soviets, we, the best-placed international proletarians of
the entire world, can we refuse to support the German revolution¬
ists and insurrectionary organisations?...

Kerensky then continued:

’’The organisers of rebellion recognise thus implicitly that
the most perfect conditions for the free action or a political
party obtain now in Russia, administered by a Provisional
Government at the head of which is, in the eyes of this party,
’a usurper and a man who has sold himself to the bourgeoi¬
sie, the Minister-President Kerensky....’

“...The organisers of the insurrection do not come to the
aid of the German proletariat, but of the German governing
classes, and they open the Russian front to the iron fists of
Wilhelm and his friends.... Little matter to the Provisional
Government the motives of these people, little matter if they
act consciously or unconsciously; but in any case, from this
tribune, in full consciousness of my responsibility, I qualify
such acts of a Russian political party as acts of treason to
Russia!

”...I place myself at the point of view of the Right, and
I propose immediately to proceed to an investigation and
make the necessary arrests." (Uproar from the Left.) ’’Lis¬
ten to me!" he cried in a powerful voice. ”At the moment


73







when the state is in danger, because of conscious or uncon¬
scious treason, the Provisional Government, and myself
among others, prefer to be killed rather than betray the
life, the honour and the independence of Russia....”

At this moment a paper was handed to Kerensky.

“I have just received the proclamation which they are dis¬
tributing to the regiments. Here is the contents.” Reading:

“’The Petrograd Soviet of Workers’ and Soldiers’ Deputies
is menaced. We order immediately the regiments to mobilise
on a war footing and to await new orders. All delay or non¬
execution of this order will be considered as an act of trea¬
son to the Revolution. The Military Revolutionary Commit¬
tee. For the President, Podvoisky. The Secretary, Antonov.

”In reality, this is an attempt to raise the populace against
the existing order of things, to break the Constituent As¬
sembly and to open the front to the regiments of the iron fist
of Wilhelm....

“I say ’populace’ intentionally, because the conscious de¬
mocracy and its Tsay-ee-kah, all the Army organisations, all
that free Russia glorifies, the good sense, the honour and
the conscience of the great Russian democracy, protests
against these things....

”1 have not come here with a prayer, but to state my firm
conviction that the Provisional Government, which defends
at this moment our new liberty—that the new Russian state,
destined to a brilliant future, will find unanimous support
except among those who have never dared to face the
truth....

“...The Provisional Government has never violated the
liberty of all citizens of the State to use their political rights....
But now the Provisional Government ... declares: in this
moment those elements of the Russian nation, those groups
and parties who have dared to lift their hands against the
free will of the Russian people, at the same time threaten¬
ing to open the front to Germany, must be liquidated with
decision!...

’’Let the population of Petrograd understand that it will
encounter a firm power, and perhaps at the last moment
good sense, conscience and honour will triumph in the hearts
of those who still possess them....”

All through this speech, the hall rang with deafening clam¬
our. When the Minister-President had stepped down, pale-
faced and wet with perspiration, and strode out with his
suite of officers, speaker after speaker from the Left and
Centre attacked the Right, all one angry roaring. Even the
Socialist Revolutionaries, through Gotz:

’’The policy of the Bolsheviki is demagogic and crim¬
inal, in their exploitation of the popular discontent. But


74









there is a whole series of popular demands which have re¬
ceived no satisfaction up to now.... The questions of peace,
land and the democratisation of the army ought to be stated
in such a fashion that no soldier, peasant or worker would
have the least doubt that our Government is attempting,
firmly and infallibly, to solve them....

“We, Mensheviki, do not wish to provoke a Cabinet crisis,
and we are ready to defend the Provisional Government with
all our energy, to the last drop of our blood—if only the
Provisional Government, on all these burning questions,
will speak the clear and precise words awaited by the people
with such impatience....”

Then Martov, furious:

“The words of the Minister-President, who allowed him¬
self to speak of ’populace’ when it is question of the move¬
ment of important sections of the proletariat and the army—
although led in the wrong direction—are nothing but an in¬
citement to civil war.”

The order of the day proposed by the Left was voted. It
amounted practically to a vote of lack of confidence.

1. The armed demonstration which has been preparing for some
days past has for its object a coup d’etat, threatens to provoke civil
war, creates conditions favourable to pogroms and counter-revo¬
lution, the mobilisation of counter-revolutionary forces, such as
the Black Hundreds, which will inevitably bring about the impossi¬
bility of convoking the Constituent, will cause a military catastro¬
phe, the death of the Revolution, paralyse the economic life of the
country and destroy Russia;

2. The conditions favourable to this agitation have been created
by delay in passing urgent measures, as well as objective conditions
caused by the war and the general disorder. It is necessary before
everything to promulgate at once a decree transmitting the land to
the peasants’ Land Committees, and to adopt an energetic course of
action abroad in proposing to the Allies to proclaim their peace-
terms and to begin peace-parleys;

3. To cope with Monarchist manifestations and pogromist move¬
ments, it is indispensable to take immediate measures to suppress
these movements, and for this purpose to create at Petrograd a
Committee of Public Safety, composed of representatives of the
Municipality and the organs of the revolutionary democracy, acting
in contact with the Provisional Government....

It is interesting to note that the Mensheviki and Socialist
Revolutionaries all rallied to this resolution.... When Ke¬
rensky saw it, however, he summoned Avksentiev to the
Winter Palace to explain. If it expressed a lack of confi¬
dence in the Provisional Government, he begged Avksentiev
to form a new Cabinet. Dan, Gotz and Avksentiev, the lead¬
ers of the “compromisers,” performed their last compro-


75









mise.... They explained to Kerensky that it was not meant as
a criticism of the Government!

At the corner of the Morskaya and the Nevsky, squads of
soldiers with fixed bayonets were stopping all private auto¬
mobiles, turning out the occupants, and ordering them
toward the Winter Palace. A large crowd had gathered to
watch them. Nobody knew whether the soldiers belonged to
the Government or the Military Revolutionary Committee.
Up in front of the Kazan Cathedral the same tning was hap¬
pening, machines being directed back up the Nevsky. Five
or six sailors with rifles came along, laughing excitedly,
and fell into conversation with two of the soldiers. On the
sailors’ hat bands were Avrora and Zaria Svobody ,—the names
of the leading Bolshevik cruisers of the Baltic Fleet. One of
them said, “Cronstadt is coming!”... It was as if, in 1792,
on the streets of Paris, some one had said: “The Marseillais
are coming!” For at Cronstadt were twenty-five thousand
sailors, convinced Bolsheviki and not afraid to die....

Rabotchi i Soldat was just out, all its front page one huge
proclamation:


Soldiers! Workers! Citizens!

The enemies of the people passed last night to the offensive.
The Kornilovists of the Staff are trying to draw in from the
suburbs yunkers and volunteer battalions. The Oranienbaum yunkers
and the Tsarskoye Selo volunteers refused to come out. A stroke
of high treason is being contemplated against the Petrograd So¬
viet.... The campaign of the counter-revolutionists is being direct¬
ed against the All-Russian Congress of Soviets on the eve of its
opening, against the Constituent Assembly, against the people.
The Petrograd Soviet is guarding the Revolution. The Military
Revolutionary Committee is directing the repulse of the conspira¬
tors’ attack. The entire garrison and proletariat of Petrograd are
ready to deal the enemy of the people a crushing blow.

The Military Revolutionary Committee decrees:

1. All regimental, division and battle-ship Committees, together
with the Soviet Commissars, and all revolutionary organisations,
shall meet in continuous session, concentrating in their hands all
information about the plans of the conspirators.

2. Not one soldier shall leave his division without permission
of the Committee.

3. To send to Smolny at once two delegates from each military
unit and five from each Ward Soviet.

4. All members of the Petrograd Soviet and all delegates to the
All-Russian Congress are invited immediately to Smolny for an ex¬
traordinary meeting.

Counter-revolution has raised its criminal head.

A great danger threatens all the conquests and hopes of the
soldiers and workers.

But the forces of the Revolution by far exceed those of its ene¬
mies.


76







The cause of the People is in strong hands. The conspirators
will be crushed.

No hesitation or doubts! Firmness, steadfastness, discipline, de¬
termination!

Long live the Revolution!

The Military Revolutionary Committee.

The Petrograd Soviet was meeting continuously at Smolny,
a centre of storm, delegates falling down asleep on the floor
and rising again to take part in the debate, Trotzky, Kame-
niev, Volodarsky speaking six, eight, twelve hours a day....

I went down to room 18 on the first floor where the Bol¬
shevik delegates were holding caucus, a harsh voice steadily
booming, the speaker hidden by the crowd: “The compro¬
misers say that we are isolated. Pay no attention to them.
Once it begins they must be dragged along with us, or else
lose their following....”

Here he held up a piece of paper. “We are dragging
them! A message has just come from the Mensheviki and
Socialist Revolutionaries! They say that they condemn our
action, but that if the Government attacks us they will
not oppose the cause of the proletariat!” Exultant shout¬
ing....

As night fell the great hall filled with soldiers and work¬
men, a monstrous dun mass, deep-humming in a blue haze
of smoke. The old Tsay-ee-kah had finally decided to welcome
the delegates to that new Congress wnich would mean its
own ruin—and perhaps the ruin of the revolutionary order
it had built. At this meeting, however, only members of the
Tsay-ee-kah could vote....

It was after midnight when Gotz took the chair and Dan
rose to speak, in a tense silence, which seemed to me al¬
most menacing.

“The hours in which we live appear in the most tragic
colours,” he said. “The enemy is at the gates of Petrograd,
the forces of the democracy are trying to organise to resist
him, and yet we await bloodshed in the streets of the capi¬
tal, and famine threatens to destroy, not only our homoge¬
neous Government, but the Revolution itself....

’’The masses are sick and exhausted. They have no inter¬
est in the Revolution. If the Bolsheviki start anything, that
will be the end of the Revolution...." (Cries, ’’That’s a lie!“)
’’The counter-revolutionists are waiting with the Bolsheviki
to begin riots and massacres.... If there is any vysluplennie,
there will be no Constituent Assembly...." (Cries, ’’Lie!
Shame!")

”It is inadmissible that in the zone of military operations
the Petrograd garrison shall not submit to the orders of the


77




Staff.... You must obey the orders of the Staff and of the
Tsay-ee-kah elected by you. All Power to the Soviets—that
means death! Robbers and thieves are waiting for the mo¬
ment to loot and burn.... When you have such slogans put
before you, ‘Enter the houses, take away the shoes and
clothes from the bourgeoisie — (Tumult. Cries, “No such
slogan! A lie! A lie!”) “Well, it may start differently, but it
will end that way!

“The Tsay-ee-kah has full power to act, and must be
obeyed.... We are not afraid of bayonets.... The Tsay-ee-kah
will defend the Revolution with its body....” (Cries, “It was a
dead body long ago!”)

Immense continued uproar, in which his voice could be
heard screaming, as he pounded the desk, “Those who are
urging this are committing a crime!”

Voice: “You committed a crime long ago, when you cap¬
tured the power and turned it over to the bourgeoisie!”

Gotz, ringing the chairman’s bell: “Silence, or I’ll have
you put out!”

Voice: “Try it!” (Cheers and whistling.)

“Now concerning our policy about peace.” (Laughter.)
“Unfortunately Russia can no longer support the continua¬
tion of the war. There is going to be peace, but not per¬
manent peace—not a democratic peace.... Today, at the
Council of the Republic, in order to avoid bloodshed, we
passed an order of the day demanding the surrender of the
land to the Land Committees and immediate peace negotia¬
tions....” (Laughter, and cries, “Too late!”)

Then for the Bolsheviki, Trotzky mounted the tribune,
borne on a wave of roaring applause that burst into cheers
and a rising house, thunderous. His thin, pointed face was
positively Mephistophelian in its expression of malicious
irony.

“Dan’s tactics prove that the masses—the great, dull, in¬
different masses—are absolutely with him!” (Titanic mirth.)
He turned toward the chairman, dramatically. “When we
spoke of giving the land to the peasants, you were against
it. We told the peasants, ‘If they don’t give it to you, take
it yourselves!’ and the peasants followed our advice. And
now you advocate what we did six months ago....

“I don’t think Kerensky’s order to suspend the death
penalty in the army was dictated by his ideals. I think Ke¬
rensky was persuaded by the Petrograd garrison, which
refused to obey him.

“To-day Dan is accused of having made a speech in the
Council of the Republic which proves him to be a secret
Bolshevik.... The time may come when Dan will say that the
flower of the Revolution participated in the rising of July


78




16th and 18th.... In Dan’s resolution to-day at the Council
of the Republic there was no mention of enforcing discipline
in the army, although that is urged in the propaganda of his
party....

“No. The history of the last seven months shows that the
masses have left the Mensheviki. The Mensheviki and the
Socialist Revolutionaries conquered the Cadets, and then
when they got the power, they gave it to the Cadets....

“Dan tells you that you have no right to make an in¬
surrection. Insurrection is the right of all revolutionists!
When the down-trodden masses revolt, it is their right....”

Then the long-faced, cruel-tongued Lieber, greeted with
groans and laughter.

“Engels and Marx said that the proletariat had no right
to take power until it was ready for it. In a bourgeois rev¬
olution like this ... the seizure of power by the masses means
the tragic end of the Revolution.... Trotzky, as a Social Dem¬
ocratic theorist, is himself opposed to what he is now advo¬
cating....” (Cries, “Enough! Down with him!”)

Martov, constantly interrupted: “The Internationalists
are not opposed to the transmission of power to the democ¬
racy, but they disapprove of the methods of the Bolsheviki.
This is not the moment to seize the power....”

Again Dan took the floor, violendy protesting against the
action of the Military Revolutionary Committee, which had
sent a Commissar to seize the office of Izvestia and censor
the paper. The wildest uproar followed. Martov tried to
speak, but could not be heard. Delegates of the Army and
the Baltic Fleet stood up all over the hall, shouting that
the Soviet was their Government....

Amid the wildest confusion Ehrlich 1 offered a resolution,
appealing to the workers and soldiers to remain calm and
not to respond to provocations to demonstrate, recognising
the necessity of immediately creating a Committee of Public
Safety, and asking the Provisional Government at once to
pass decrees transferring the land to the peasants and begin¬
ning peace negotiations....

Then up leaped Volodarsky, shouting harshly that the
Tsay-ee-kah, on the eve of the Congress, had no right to
assume the functions of the Congress. The Tsay-ee-kah was
practically dead, he said, and the resolution was simply a
trick to bolster up its waning power....

“As for us, Bolsheviki, we will not vote on this resolu¬
tion!” Whereupon all the Bolsheviki left the hall and the
resolution was passed....

Towards four in the morning I met Zorin in the outer


1 Ehrlich, a Menshevik leader.— Ed.


79





hall, a rifle slung from his shoulder.

“We’re moving!”«7» said he, calmly but with satisfaction.
“We pinched the Assistant Minister of Justice and the Minis¬
ter of Religions. They’re down cellar now. One regiment is on
the march to capture the Telephone Exchange, another the
Telegraph Agency, another the State Bank. The Red Guard
is out.,..”

On the steps of Smolny, in the chill dark, we first saw the
Red Guard—a huddled group of boys in workmen’s clothes,
carrying guns with bayonets, talking nervously together.

Far over the still roofs westward came the sound of scat¬
tered rifle fire, where the yunkers were trying to open the
bridges over the Neva, to prevent the factory workers and
soldiers of the Viborg quarter from joining the Soviet forces
in the centre of the city; and the Cronstadt sailors were clos¬
ing them again....

Behind us great Smolny, bright with lights, hummed like
a gigantic hive....





Photograph of Lenin in disguise on the identity card issued in the
name of K. P. Ivanov, a worker, used by Lenin during his last
period underground after the events of July 1917









Uj ■ K- KpmytvtyT' 2^o /<CL*

^rxfy/***** £o £ 4i» —

f Ko/X Xjp-^*.n*4 >^t~cr\£^*+*^-

try-CoA^t,^

2m~C*C^~ p

~**U^u* UC tytffey-o

y4s/-**i-4-++*L*. ^-^4c/r )
</tyLfiyayC« " Xju^lcciU c ^

Hr & c*

^fl-*£cy4^L-Cs+<-0-T* ' ^rya & Co&.

J^y ~ ^ df C^K^O .C C

V <? A< &crj 1.0^0-^. /*x*p^ 0 JHuCLsIo


6 C~£-+*




The first page of the resolution on the armed uprising
written by V. I. Lenin and adopted by the historic meeting
of the Central Committee on October 23, 1917



Chapter IV

THE FALL OF THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT


Wednesday, November 7th, I rose very late. The noon
cannon boomed from Peter-Paul as I went down the Nevsky.
It was a raw, chill day. In front of the State Bank some sol¬
diers with fixed bayonets were standing at the closed gates.

“What side do you belong to?” I asked. “The Govern¬
ment?”

“No more Government,” one answered with a grin, “ Slava
Bogu ! Glory to God!” That was all I could get out of him....

The street-cars were running on the Nevsky, men, women,
and small boys hanging on every projection. Shops were
open, and there seemed even less uneasiness among the
street crowds than there had been the day before. A whole
crop of new appeals against insurrection had blossomed out
on the walls during the night—to the peasants, to the soldiers
at the front, to the workmen of Petrograd. One read:

From the Petrograd Municipal Duma:

The Municipal Duma informs the citizens that in the extraordi¬
nary meeting of November 6th the Duma formed a Committee of
Public Safety, composed of members of the Central and Ward
Dumas, and representatives of the following revolutionary demo¬
cratic organisations: The Tsay-ee-kah, the All-Russian Executive
Committee of Peasant Deputies, the Army organisations, the Tsen-
troflot, the Petrograd Soviet of Workers’ and Soldiers’ Depu¬
ties (!), the Council of Trade Unions, and others.

Members of the Committee of Public Safety will be on duty in
the building of the Municipal Duma. Telephones No. 15-40, 223-
77, 138-36.

November 7th, 1917.

Though I didn’t realise it then, this was the Duma’s decla¬
ration of war against the Bolsheviki.

I bought a copy of Rabotchi Put, the only newspaper which
seemed on sale, and a little later paid a soldier fifty kopecks
for a second-hand copy of Dien. The Bolshevik paper, print¬
ed on large-sized sheets in the conquered office of the Rus-
skaya Volta, had huge headlines: “All Power—To the So¬
viets of Workers, Soldiers and Peasants! Peace! Bread!

81

6-253






Land!” The leading article was signed “Zinoviev” 1 —Lenin’s
companion in hiding. It began:

Every soldier, every worker, every real Socialist, every hon¬
est democrat realises that there are only two alternatives to the
present situation.

Either—the power will remain in the hands of the bourgeois-
landlord crew, and this will mean every kind of repression for the
workers, soldiers and peasants, continuation of the war, inevitable
hunger and death....

Or—the power will be transferred to the hands of the revolution¬
ary workers, soldiers and peasants; and in that case it will mean
a complete abolition of landlord tyranny, immediate check of the
capitalists, immediate proposal of a just peace. Then the land
is assured to the peasants, then control of industry is assured
to the workers, then bread is assured to the hungry, then the
end of this nonsensical war!...

Dien contained fragmentary news of the agitated night.
Bolsheviki capture of the Telephone Exchange, the Baltic
station, the Telegraph Agency; the Peterhof yunkers unable to
reach Petrograd; the Cossacks undecided; arrest of some of
the Ministers; shooting of Chief of the City Militia Meyer;
arrests, counter-arrests, skirmishes between clashing patrols
of soldiers ,yunkers and Red Guards.«l»

On the corner of the Morskaya I ran into Captain Gom-
berg, Menshevik oboronetz, secretary of the Military Section
of his party. When I asked him if the insurrection had really
happened he shrugged his shoulders in a tired manner and
replied, “ Tchort znayetl The devil knows! Well, perhaps the
Bolsheviki can seize the power, but they won’t be able to
hold it more than three days. They haven’t the men to run a
government. Perhaps it’s a good thing to let them try—that
will finish them....”

The Military Hotel at the corner of St. Isaac’s Square was
picketed by armed sailors. In the lobby were many of the
smart young officers, walking up and down or muttering to¬
gether; the sailors wouldn’t let them leave....

Suddenly came the sharp crack of a rifle outside, followed
by a scattered burst of firing. I ran out. Something unusual
was going on around the Marinsky Palace, where the Council
of the Russian Republic met. Diagonally across the wide
square was drawn a line of soldiers, rifles ready, staring at
the hotel roof.

“Provocatzial Shot at us!” snapped one, while another
went running toward the door.


'A mistake. The article referred to was published in Rabntchi Put on Nov¬
ember 7, 1917 unsigned. Its author has not been identified.— Ed.


82




At the western corner of the Palace lay a big armoured car
with a red flag flying from it, newly lettered in red paint:
“S.R.S.D.”(Soriet Rabotchikh Soldatskikh Deputatov ); all the
guns trained toward St. Isaac’s. A barricade had been heaped
up across the mouth of Novaya Ulitza—boxes, barrels, an
old bed-spring, a wagon. A pile of lumber barred the end of
the Moika quay. Short logs from a neighbouring woodpile
were being built up along the front of the building to form
breastworks....

“Is there going to be any fighting?” I asked.

“Soon, soon,” answered a soldier, nervously. “Go away,
comrade, you’ll get hurt. They will come from that direc¬
tion,” pointing toward the Admiralty.

“Who will?”

“That I couldn’t tell you, brother,” he answered, and spat.

Before the door of the Palace was a crowd of soldiers and
sailors. A sailor was telling of the end of the Council of the
Russian Republic. “We walked in there,” he said, “and filled
all the doors with comrades. I went up to the counter-revolu¬
tionist Kornilovitz who sat in the president’s chair. ’No more
Council,’ I says. ’Run along home now!”’

There was laughter. By waving assorted papers I managed
to get around to the door of the press gallery. There an
enormous smiling sailor stopped me, and when I showed my
pass, just said, “If you were Saint Michael himself, comrade,
you couldn’t pass here!” Through the glass of the door I
made out the distorted face and gesticulating arms of a
French correspondent, locked in....

Around in front stood a little, grey-moustached man in
the uniform of a general, the centre of a knot of soldiers.
He was very red in the face.

“I am General Alexeyev,” he cried. “As your superior offi¬
cer and as a member of the Council of the Republic I de¬
mand to be allowed to pass!” The guard scratched his head,
looking uneasily out of the corner of his eye; he beckoned to
an approaching officer, who grew very agitated when he saw
who it was and saluted before he realised what he was doing.

“Vashe Vuisokoprevoskhoditelstvo —your High Excellen¬
cy—” he stammered, in the manner of the old regime. “Ac¬
cess to the Palace is strictly forbidden—I have no right—”

An automobile came by, and I saw Gotz sitting inside,
laughing apparently with great amusement. A few minutes
later another, with armed soldiers on the front seat, full of
arrested members of the Provisional Government. Peters,
Lettish member of the Military Revolutionary Committee,
came hurrying across the Square.

“I thought you bagged all those gentlemen last night,”
said I, pointing to them.


6 *


83




“Oh,” he answered, with the expression of a disappointed
small boy. “The damn fools let most of them go again before
we made up our minds....”

Down the Voskressensky Prospect a great mass of sailors
were drawn up, and behind them came marching soldiers, as
far as the eye could reach.

We went toward the Winter Palace by way of the Admiral-
teisky. All the entrances to the Palace Square were closed
by sentries, and a cordon of troops stretched clear across the
western end, besieged by an uneasy throng of citizens. Ex¬
cept for far-away soldiers who seemed to be carrying wood
out of the Palace courtyard and piling it in front of the main
gateway, everything was quiet.

We couldn’t make out whether the sentries were pro-
Government or pro-Soviet. Our papers from Smolny had no
effect, however, so we approached another part of the line
with an important air and showed our American passports,
saying, “Official business!” and shouldered through. At the
door of the Palace the same old shveitzari, in their brass-
buttoned blue uniforms with the red-and-gold collars, po¬
litely took our coats and hats, and we went upstairs. In the
dark, gloomy corridor, stripped of its tapestries, a few old
attendants were lounging about, and in front of Kerensky’s
door a young officer paced up and down, gnawing his mous¬
tache. We asked if we could interview the Minister-president.
He bowed and clicked his heels.

“No, I am sorry,” he replied in French. “Alexander Feo-
dorovitch is extremely occupied just now....” He looked at us
for a moment. “In fact, he is not here....”

“Where is he?”

“He has gone to the Front. «2» And do you know, there
wasn’t enough gasoline for his automobile. We had to send to
the English Hospital and borrow some.”

“Are the Ministers here?”

“They are meeting in some room—I don’t know where.”

“Are the Bolsheviki coming?”

“Of course. Certainly, they are coming. I expect a tele¬
phone call every minute to say that they are coming. But
we are ready. We have yunkers in the front of the Palace.
Through that door there.”

“Can we go in there?”

“No. Certainly not. It is not permitted.” Abruptly he
shook hands all around and walked away. We turned to the
forbidden door, set in a temporary partition dividing the hall
and locked on the outside. On the other side were voices,
and somebody laughing. Except for that the vast spaces of
the old Palace were silent as the grave. An old shveilzar ran
up. “No, barin, you must not go in there.”


84










“Why is the door locked?”

“To keep the soldiers in,” he answered. After a few min¬
utes he said something about having a glass of tea and went
back up the hall. We unlocked the door.

Just inside a couple of soldiers stood on guard, but they
said nothing. At the end of the corridor was a large, ornate
room with gilded cornices and enormous crystal lustres, and
beyond it several smaller ones, wainscoted with dark wood.
On both sides of the parqueted floor lay rows of dirty mat¬
tresses and blankets, upon which occasional soldiers were
stretched out; everywhere was a litter of cigarette-butts, bits
of bread, cloth, and empty botdes with expensive French
labels. More and more soldiers, with the red shoulder-straps
of the yunker -schools, moved about in a stale atmosphere of
tobacco-smoke and unwashed humanity. One had a botde of
white Burgundy, evidendy filched from the cellars of the Pal¬
ace. They looked at us with astonishment as we marched
past, through room after room, until at last we came out into
a series of great state-salons, frondng their long and dirty
windows on the Square. The walls were covered with huge
canvases in massive gilt frames—historical batde-scenes....
“12 October 1812” and “6 November 1812” and “16/28 Au¬
gust 1813.”... One had a gash across the upper right-hand
corner.

The place was all a huge barrack, and evidendy had been
for weeks, from the look of the floor and walls. Machine-
guns were mounted on window-sills, rifles stacked between
the mattresses.

As we were looking at the pictures an alcoholic breath
assailed me from the region of my left ear, and a voice said
in thick but fluent French, “I see, by the way you admire
the paintings, that you are foreigners.” He was a short, puffy
man with a baldish head as he removed his cap.

“Americans? Enchanted. I am Stabs-Capitan Vladimir
Artzibashev, absolutely at your service.” It did not seem to
occur to him that there was anything unusual in four stran¬
gers, one a woman, wandering through the defences of an
army awaiting attack. He began to complain of the state of
Russia.

“Not only these Bolsheviki,” he said, “but the fine tradi¬
tions of the Russian army are broken down. Look around
you. These are all students in the officers’ training schools.
But are they gentlemen? Kerensky opened the officers’
schools to the ranks, to any soldier who could pass an exami¬
nation. Naturally there are many, many who are contaminat¬
ed by the Revolution....”

Without consequence he changed the subject. “I am very
anxious to go away from Russia. I have made up my mind to


85







join the American army. Will you please go to your Con¬
sul and make arrangements? I will give you my address.” In
spite of our protestations he wrote it on a piece of paper,
and seemed to feel better at once. I have it still—” Chanien-
baumskaya Shkola Praporshtchikov 2nd, Staraya Peterhof. “

“We had a review this morning early,” he went on, as he
guided us through the rooms and explained everything.
“The Women’s Battalion decided to remain loyal to the Gov¬
ernment.”

“Are the women soldiers in the Palace?”

“Yes, they are in the back rooms, where they won’t be
hurt if any trouble comes.” He sighed. “It is a great respon¬
sibility,” said he.

For a while we stood at the window, looking down on the
Square before the Palace, where three companies of long-
coated yunkers were drawn up under arms, being harangued
by a tall, energetic-looking officer I recognised as Stankie-
vitch, chief Military Commissar of the Provisional Govern¬
ment. After a few minutes two of the companies shouldered
arms with a clash, barked three sharp shouts, and went
swinging off across the Square, disappearing through the
Red Arch 1 into the quiet city.

“They are going to capture the Telephone Exchange,”
said some one. Three cadets stood by us, and we fell into
conversation. They said they had entered the schools from
the ranks, and gave their names—Robert Olev, Alexei Vasi-
lienko and Erni Sachs, an Estonian. But now they didn’t
want to be officers any more, because officers were very
unpopular. They didn’t seem to know what to do, as a mat¬
ter of fact, and it was plain that they were not happy.

But soon they began to boast. “If the Bolsheviki come we
shall show them how to fight. They do not dare to fight,,
they are cowards. But if we should be overpowered, well,
every man keeps one bullet for himself....”

At this point there was a burst of rifle-fire not far off.
Out on the Square all the people began to run, falling flat
on their faces, and the izvoshtchiki, standing on the corners,
galloped in every direction. Inside all was uproar, soldiers
running here and there, grabbing up guns, rifle-belts and
shouting, “Here they come! Here they come!”... But in a few
minutes it quieted down again. The izvoshtchiki came back,
the people lying down stood up. Through the Red Arch ap¬
peared the yunkers, marching a litde out of step, one of them
supported by two comrades.

It was getting late when we left the Palace. The sentries
in the Square had all disappeared. The great semi-circle of


1 The arch of the General Staff building. — Ed.


86





Government buildings seemed deserted. We went into the
Hotel France for dinner, and right in the middle of soup
the waiter, very pale in the face, came up and insisted that
we move to the main dining-room at the back of the house,
because they were going to put out the lights in the cafe.
“There will be much shooting,” he said.

When we came out on the Morskaya again it was quite
dark, except for one flickering street-light on the corner of
the Nevsky. Under this stood a big armoured automobile,
with racing engine and oil-smoke pouring out of it. A small
boy had climbed up the side of the thing and was looking
down the barrel of a machine-gun. Soldiers and sailors stood
around, evidently waiting for something. We walked back up
to the Red Arch, where a knot of soldiers was gathered star¬
ing at the brightly-lighted Winter Palace and talking in loud
tones.

“No, comrades,” one was saying. “How can we shoot at
them? The Women’s Battalion is in there—they will say we
have fired on Russian women.”

As we reached the Nevsky again another armoured car
came around the corner, and a man poked his head out of
the turret-top.

“Come on!” he yelled. “Let’s go on through and attack!”

The driver of the other car came over, and shouted so
as to be heard above the roaring engine. “The Committee
says to wait. They have got artillery behind the wood-piles
in there....”

Here the street-cars had stopped running, few people
passed, and there were no lights; but a few blocks away we
could see the trams, the crowds, the lighted shop-windows
and the electric signs of the moving-picture shows—life going
on as usual. We had tickets to the Ballet at the Marinsky
Theatre—all the treatres were open—but it was too exciting
out of doors....

In the darkness we stumbled over lumber-piles barricad¬
ing the Police Bridge, and before the Stroganov Palace made
out some soldiers wheeling into position a three-inch field-
gun. Men in various uniforms were coming and going in
an aimless way, and doing a great deal of talking....

Up the Nevsky the whole city seemed to be out prome¬
nading. On every corner immense crowds were massed
around a core of hot discussion. Pickets of a dozen soldiers
with fixed bayonets lounged at the street-crossings, red-faced
old men in rich fur coats shook their fists at them, smartly-
dressed women screamed epithets; the soldiers argued feeb¬
ly, with embarrassed grins.... Armoured cars went up and
down the street, named after the first Tsars—Oleg, Rurik,
Svietoslav—and daubed with huge red letters, “R.S.D.R.P.”


87







( Rossiskaya Sotsial-Democrateetcheskaya Rabotchaya Partia ).'
At the Mikhailovsky a man appeared with an armful of news¬
papers, and was immediately stormed by frantic people, of¬
fering a rouble, five roubles, ten roubles, tearing at each
other like animals. It was Rabotchi i Soldat, announcing the
victory of the Proletarian Revolution, the liberation of the
Bolsheviki still in prison, calling upon the Army front and
rear for support... a feverish litde sheet of four pages, run¬
ning to enormous type, containing no news....

On the corner of the Sadovaya about two thousand citi¬
zens had gathered, staring up at the roof of a tall building,
where a tiny red spark glowed and waned.

“See!” said a tall peasant, pointing to it. “It is a provo-
cator. Presendy he will fire on the people....” Apparently no
one thought of going to investigate.


* * *


The massive facade of Smolny blazed with lights as we
drove up, and from every street converged upon it streams
of hurrying shapes dim in the gloom. Automobiles and mo¬
torcycles came and went; an enoimous elephant-coloured
armoured automobile, with two red flags flying from the
turret, lumbered out with screaming siren. It was cold, and
at the outer gate the Red Guards had built themselves a bon¬
fire. At the inner gate, too, there was a blaze, bv the light
of which the sentries slowly spelled out our passes and
looked us up and down. The canvas covers had been taken
off the four rapid-fire guns on each side of the doorway,
and the ammunition-belts hung snake-like from their
breeches. A dun herd of armoured cars stood under the
trees in the court-yard, engines going. The long, bare, dimly-
illuminated halls roared with the thunder of feet, calling,
shouting.... There was an atmosphere of recklessness. A
crowd came pouring down the staircase, workers in black
blouses and round black fur hats, many of them with guns
slung over their shoulders, soldiers in rough dirt-coloured
coats and grey fur shapki pinched flat, a leader or so—
Lunatcharsky, Kameniev 2 —hurrying along in the centre of


’Russian Social Democratic Labour Party.

2 Kameniev (Rosenfeld), L. B., member of the Bolshevik Party from 1901.
After the November Revolution, Chairman of the Moscow Soviet, Deputy
Chairman of the Council of People's Commissars.

Often opposed Lenin’s line; after the March bourgeois democratic revo¬
lution stood against the Party’s policy of promoting a socialist revolution.

Subsequently broke with Marxism-Leninism and was expelled from the
Party.— Ed.


88




a group all talking at once, with harassed anxious faces, and
bulging portfolios under their arms. The extraordinary
meeting of the Petrograd Soviet was over. I stopped Kame-
niev—a quick-moving little man, with a wide, vivacious face
set close to his shoulders. Without preface he read in rapid
French a copy of the resolution just passed:

The Petrograd Soviet of Workers’ and Soldiers’ Deputies, saluting
the victorious Revolution of the Petrograd proletariat and garrison,
particularly emphasises the unity, organisation, discipline, and com¬
plete co-operation shown by the masses in this rising; rarely has less
blood been spilled, and rarely has an insurrection succeeded so well.

The Soviet expresses its firm conviction that the Workers’ and
Peasants’ Government which, as the government of the Soviets, will
be created by the Revolution, and which will assure the industrial
proletariat of the support of the entire mass of poor peasants, will
march firmly toward Socialism, the only means by which the coun¬
try can be spared the miseries and unheard-of horrors of war.

The new Workers’ and Peasants’ Government will propose imme¬
diately a just and democratic peace to all the belligerent coun¬
tries.

It will suppress immediately the great landed property, and trans¬
fer the land to the peasants. It will establish workmen’s control
over production and distribution of manufactured products, and
will set up a genera] control over the banks, which it will transform
into a state monopoly.

The Petrograd Soviet of Workers’ and Soldiers’ Deputies calls up¬
on the workers and the peasants of Russia to support with all their
energy and all their devotion the Proletarian Revolution. The Soviet
expresses its conviction that the city workers, allies of the poor
peasants, will assure complete revolutionary order, indispensable to
the victory of Socialism. The Soviet is convinced that the proletariat
of the countries of Western Europe will aid us in conducting the
cause of Socialism to a real and lasting victory.

“You consider it won then?”

He lifted his shoulders. “There is much to do. Horribly
much. It is just beginning....”

On the landing I met Riazanov, vice-president of the
Trade Unions, looking black and biting his grey beard. “It’s
insane! Insane!” he shouted. “The European working-class
won’t move! All Russia—” He waved his hand distractedly
and ran off. Riazanov and Kameniev had both opposed
the insurrection, and felt the lash of Lenin’s terrible
tongue....

It had been a momentous session. In the name of the Mili¬
tary Revolutionary Committee Trotzky had declared that the
Provisional Government no longer existed.

“The characteristic of bourgeois governments,” he said, “is
to deceive the people. We, the Soviets of Workers’, Soldiers’


89














and Peasants’ Deputies, are going to try an experiment
unique in history; we are going to Found a power which will
have no other aim but to satisfy the needs of the soldiers,
workers, and peasants.”

Lenin had appeared, welcomed with a mighty ovation, pro¬
phesying world-wide Social Revolution.... And Zinoviev, cry¬
ing, “This day we have paid our debt to the international
proletariat, and struck a terrible blow at the war, a terrible
body-blow at all the imperialists and particularly at Wilhelm
the Executioner....”

Then Trotzky, that telegrams had been sent to the front
announcing the victorious insurrection, but no reply had
come. Troops were said to be marching against Petrograd—a
delegation must be sent to tell them the truth.

Cries, “You are anticipating the will of the All-Russian
Congress of Soviets!”

Trotzky, coldly, “The will of the All-Russian Congress of
Soviets has been anticipated by the rising of the Petrograd
workers and soldiers!”

So we came into the great meeting-hall, pushing through
the clamorous mob at the door. In the rows of seats, under
the white chandeliers, packed immovably in the aisles and
on the sides, perched on every window-sill, and even the
edge of the platform, the representatives of the workers and
soldiers of all Russia awaited in anxious silence or wild exul¬
tation the ringing of the chairman’s bell. There was no heat
in the hall but the stifling heat of unwashed human bodies.
A foul blue cloud of cigarette smoke rose from the mass and
hung in the thick air. Occasionally some one in authority
mounted the tribune and asked the comrades not to smoke;
then everybody, smokers and all, took up the cry, “Don’t
smoke, comrades!” and went on smoking. Petrovsky, Anarch¬
ist delegate from the Obukhov factory, made a seat for me
beside him. Unshaven and filthy, he was reeling from three
nights’ sleepless work on the Military Revolutionary Commit¬
tee.

On the platform sat the leaders of the old Tsay-ee-kah —
for the last time dominating the turbulent Soviets, which
they had ruled from the first days, and which were now risen
against them. It was the end ot the first period of the Rus¬
sian revolution, which these men had attempted to guide in
careful ways.... The three greatest of them were not there:
Kerensky, flying to the front through country towns all
doubtfully heaving up; Tcheidze, the old eagle, who had
contemptuously retired to his own Georgian mountains,
there to sicken with consumption; and the high-souled Tse-
retelli, also mortally stricken, who, nevertheless, would return
and pour out his beautiful eloquence for a lost cause. Gotz


90


sat there, Dan, Lieber, Bogdanov, Broido, Fillipovsky—
white-faced, hollow-eyed and indignant. Below them the
second siezd of the All-Russian Soviets boiled and swirled,
and over their heads the Military Revolutionary Committee
functioned white-hot, holding in its hands the threads of in¬
surrection and striking with a long arm.... It was 10.40 P.M.

Dan, a mild-faced, baldish figure in a shapeless military
surgeon’s uniform, was ringing the bell. Silence fell sharp¬
ly, intense, broken by the scuffling and disputing of the peo¬
ple at the door....

“We have the power in our hands,” he began sadly,
stopped for a moment, and then went on in a low voice.
“Comrades! The Congress of Soviets is meeting in such un¬
usual circumstances and in such an extraordinary moment
that you will understand why the Tsay-ee-kah considers it
unnecessary to address you with a political speech. This
will become much clearer to you if you will recollect that I
am a member of the Tsay-ee-kah, and that at this very mo¬
ment our party comrades are in the Winter Palace under
bombardment, sacrificing themselves to execute the duty put
on them by the Tsay-ee-kah. “ (Confused uproar.)

“I declare the first session of the Second Congress of So¬
viets of Workers’ and Soldiers’ Deputies open!”

The election of the presidium took place amid stir and
moving about. Avanessov announced that by agreement of
the Bolsheviki, Left Socialist Revolutionaries and Mensheviki
Internationalists, it was decided to base the presidium upon
proportionality. Several Mensheviki leaped to their feet pro¬
testing. A bearded soldier shouted at them, “Remember what
you did to us Bolsheviki when we were the minority!” Re¬
sult—14 Bolsheviki, 7 Socialist Revolutionaries, 3 Mensheviki
and 1 Internationalist (Gorky’s group). Hendelmann, for the
right and centre Socialist Revolutionaries, said that they re¬
fused to take part in the presidium; the same from Kintchuk,
for the Mensheviki; and from the Mensheviki International¬
ists, that until the verification of certain circumstances, they
too could not enter the presidium. Scattering applause and
hoots. One voice, “Renegades, you call yourselves Socialists!”
A representative of the Ukrainian delegates demanded, and
received, a place. Then the old Tsay-ee-kah stepped down,
and in their places appeared Trotzky, Kameniev, Lunatchar-
sky, Madame Kollontai, Nogin.... The hall rose, thundering.
How far they had soared, these Bolsheviki, from a despised
and hunted sect less than four months ago, to this supreme
place, the helm of great Russia in full tide of insurrection!

The order of the day, said Kameniev, was first, Organisa¬
tion of Power; second, War and Peace; and third, the Con¬
stituent Assembly. Lozovsky, rising, announced that upon


91







agreement of the bureau of all factions, it was proposed
to hear and discuss the report of the Petrograd Soviet,
then to give the floor to members of the Tsay-ee-kah and the
different parties, and finally to pass to the order of the
day.

But suddenly a new sound made itself heard, deeper than
the tumult of the crowd, persistent, disquieting—the dull
shock of guns. People looked anxiously toward the clouded
windows, and a sort of fever came over them. Martov,
demanding the floor, croaked hoarsely, “The civil war is
beginning, comrades! The first question must be a peaceful
settlement of the crisis. On principle and from a political
standpoint we must urgendy discuss a means of averting
civil war. Our brothers are being shot down in the streets!
At this moment, when before the opening of the Congress
of Soviets the question of Power is being settled by means of
a military plot organised by one of the revolutionary par¬
ties— ” for a moment he could not make himself heard above
the noise, “All of the revolutionary' parties must face the
fact! The first vopros (question) before the Congress is the
question of Power, and this question is already being setded
by force of arms in the streets!... We must create a power
which will be recognised by the whole democracy. If the
Congress wishes to be the voice of the revolutionary democ¬
racy it must not sit with folded hands before the developing
civil war, the result of which may be a dangerous outburst of
counter-revolution.... The possibility of a peaceful outcome
lies in the formation of a united democratic authority.... We
must elect a delegation to negotiate with the other Socialist
parties and organisations....”

Always the methodical muffled boom of cannon through
the windows, and the delegates, screaming at each other....
So, with the crash of artillery, in the dark, with hatred, and
fear, and reckless daring, new Russia was being born.

The Left Socialist Revolutionaries and the United Social
Democrats supported Martov’s proposition. It was accepted.
A soldier announced that the All-Russian Peasants’ Soviets
had refused to send delegates to the Congress; he proposed
that a committee be sent with a formal invitation. “Some del¬
egates are present,” he said. “I move that they be given
votes.” Accepted.

Kharash, wearing the epaulets of a captain, passionately
demanded the floor. “The political hypocrites who control
this Congress,” he shouted, “told us we were to setde the
question of Power—and it is being setded behind our backs,
before the Congress opens! Blows are being struck against
the Winter Palace, and it is by such blows that the nails are
being driven into the coffin of the political party which has


92











risked such an adventure!” Uproar. Followed him Gharra 1 2 :
“ While we are here discussing propositions of peace, there is
a batde on in the streets.... The Socialist Revoludonaries and
the Mensheviki refuse to be involved in what is happening,
and call upon all public forces to resist the attempt to cap¬
ture the power....” Kutchin, delegate of the 12th Army and
representative of the Trudoviki: “I was sent here only for
information, and I am returning at once to the Front, where
all the Army Committees consider that the taking of power
by the Soviets, only three weeks before the Constituent As¬
sembly, is a stab in the back of the Army and a crime against
the people—!” Shouts of “Lie! You lie!”... When he could be
heard again, “Let’s make an end of this adventure in Petro-
grad! I call upon all delegates to leave this hall in order to
save the country and the Revolution!” As he went down the
aisle in the midst of a deafening noise, people surged in
upon him, threatening.... Then Khintchuk, an officer with a
long brown goatee, speaking suavely and persuasively: “I
speak for the delegates from the Front. The Army is imper¬
fectly represented in this Congress, and furthermore, the
Army does not consider the Congress of Soviets necessary at
this time, only three weeks before the opening of the Consti¬
tuent— ” shouts and stamping, always growing more violent.
“The Army does not consider that the Congress of Soviets
has the necessary authority—” Soldiers began to stand up all
over the hall.

“Who are you speaking for? What do you represent?” they
cried.

“The Central Executive Committee of the Soviet of the
Fifth Army, the Second F— Regiment, the First N— Regi¬
ment, the Third S— Rifles....”

“When were you elected? You represent the officers, not
the soldiers! What do the soldiers say about it?” Jeers and
hoots.

“We, the Front group, disclaim all responsibility for
what has happened and is happening, and we consider it
necessary to mobilise all self-conscious revolutionary forces
for the salvation of the Revolution! The Front group will
leave the Congress.... The place to fight is out on the
streets!”

Immense bawling outcry. “You speak for the Staff—not
for the Army!”

“I appeal to all reasonable soldiers to leave this Con¬
gress!”


1 According to Pravda these words were spoken by Kharash.— Ed.

2 The following speech ascribed by John Reed to Khintchuk, is reported
in the newspapers as the continuation of Kutchin’s speech.— Ed.


93






“Kornilovitz! Counter-revolutionist! Provocator!” were
hurled at him.

On behalf of the Mensheviki, Khintchuk then announced
that the only possibility of a peaceful solution was to begin
negotiations with the Provisional Government for the for¬
mation of a new Cabinet, which would find support in all
strata of society. He could not proceed for several minutes.
Raising his voice to a shout he read the Menshevik declara¬
tion.

“Because the Bolsheviki have made a military conspiracy
with the aid of the Petrograd Soviet, without consulting the
other factions and parties, we find it impossible to remain
in the Congress, and therefore withdraw, inviting the other
groups to follow us and to meet for discussion of the situa¬
tion!”

“Deserter!” At intervals in the almost continuous disturb¬
ance Hendelmann, for the Socialist Revolutionaries, could
be heard protesting against the bombardment of the Winter
Palace.... “We are opposed to this kind of anarchy....”

Scarcely had he stepped down than a young, lean-faced
soldier, with flashing eyes, leaped to the platform, and dra¬
matically lifted his hand:

“Comrades!” he cried and there was a hush. “My familia
(name) is Peterson—I speak for the Second Lettish Rifles.
You have heard the statements of two representatives of the
Army committees; these statements would have some value if
their authors had been representatives of the Army —” Wild
applause. “ But they do not represent the soldiers! “ Shaking
his fist. “The Twelfth Army has been insisting for a long
time upon the re-election of the Great Soviet and Army
Committee, but just as your own Tsay-ee-kah, our Committee
refused to call a meeting of the representatives of the masses
until the end of September, so that the reactionaries could
elect their own false delegates to this Congress. I tell you
now, the Lettish soldiers have many times said, ‘No more
resolutions! No more talk! We want deeds—the Power must
be in our hands!’ Let these impostor delegates leave the Con¬
gress! The Army is not with them!”

The hall rocked with cheering. In the first moments of
the session, stunned by the rapidity of events, startled by the
sound of cannon, the delegates had hesitated. For an hour
hammer-blow after hammer-blow had fallen from that trib¬
une, welding them together but beating them down. Did
they stand then alone? Was Russia rising against them? Was
it true that the Army was marching on Petrograd? Then this
clear-eyed young soldier had spoken, and m a flash they
knew it for the truth.... This was the voice of the soldiers—
the stirring millions of uniformed workers and peasants were


94









men like them, and their thoughts and feelings were the
same....

More soldiers.... Gzhelshakh; for the front delegates, an¬
nouncing that they had only decided to leave the Congress
by a small majority, and that the Bolshevik members had not
even taken part in the vote, as they stood for division ac¬
cording to political parties, and not groups. “Hundreds of
delegates from the front,” he said, “are being elected with¬
out the participation of the soldiers because the Army Com¬
mittees are no longer the real representatives of the rank
and file....” Lukianov, crying that officers like Kharash and
Khintchuk could not represent the Army in this Congress,—
but only the high command. “The real inhabitants of the
trenches want with all their hearts the transfer of Power into
the hands of the Soviets, and they expect very much from
it!”... The tide was turning.

Then came Abramovitch, for the Bund, the organ of the
Jewish Social Democrats—his eyes snapping behind thick
glasses, trembling with rage. 1

“What is taking place now in Petrograd is a monstrous
calamity! The Bund group joins with the declaration of the
Mensheviki and Socialist Revolutionaries and will leave the
Congress!” He raised his voice and hand. “Our duty to the
Russian proletariat doesn’t permit us to remain here and be
responsible for these crimes. Because the firing on the Win¬
ter Palace doesn’t cease, the Municipal Duma together with
the Mensheviki and Socialist Revolutionaries, and the Execu¬
tive Committee of the Peasants’ Soviet, has decided to perish
with the Provisional Government, and we are going with
them! Unarmed we will expose our breasts to the machine-
guns of the Terrorists.... We invite all delegates to this Con¬
gress— ” The rest was lost in a storm of hoots, menaces and
curses which rose to a hellish pitch as fifty delegates got up
and pushed their way out....

Kameniev jangled the bell, shouting, “Keep your seats
and we’ll go on with our business!” And Trotzky, standing
up with a pale, cruel face, letting out his rich voice in cool
contempt, “All these so-called Socialist compromisers, these
frightened Mensheviki, Socialist Revolutionaries, Bund —let
them go! They are just so much refuse which will be swept
into the garbage-heap of history!”

Riazanov, for the Bolsheviki, stated that at the request of
the City Duma the Military Revolutionary Committee had
sent a delegation to offer negotiations to the Winter Palace.
“In this way we have done everything possible to avoid


1 Apparently, the following are the speeches of Abramovitch and Ehrlich
run by John Reed as one.— Ed.


95










bloodshed....”

We hurried from the place, stopping for a moment at the
room where the Military Revolutionary Committee worked at
furious speed, engulfing and spitting out panting couriers,
despatching Commissars armed with power of life and death
to all the corners of the city, amid the buzz of the telephono¬
graphs. The door opened, a blast of stale air and cigarette
smoke rushed out, we caught a glimpse of dishevelled men
bending over a map under the glare of a shaded electric-
light.... Comrade Josephov-Dukhvinski, a smiling youth with
a mop of pale yellow hair, made out passes for us.

When we came into the chill night, all the front of Smolny
was one huge park of arriving and departing automobiles,
above the sound of which could be heard the far-off slow
beat of the cannon. A great motor-truck stood there, shaking
to the roar of its engine. Men were tossing bundles into it,
and others receiving them, with guns beside them.

“Where are you going?” I shouted.

“Down-town—all over—everywhere!” answered a little
workman, grinning, with a large exultant gesture.

We showed our passes. “Come along!” they invited. “But
there’ll probably be shooting—” We climbed in; the clutch
slid home with a raking jar, the great car jerked forward,
we all toppled backward on top of those who were climbing
in; past the huge fire by the gate, and then the fire by the
outer gate, glowing red on the faces of the workmen with
rifles who squatted around it, and went bumping at top
speed down the Suvorovsky Prospect, swaying from side to
side.... One man tore the wrapping from a bundle and began
to hurl handfuls of papers into the air. We imitated him,
plunging down through the dark street with a tail of white
papers floating and eddying out behind. The late passers-by
stooped to pick them up; the patrols around bonfires on the
corners ran out with uplifted arms to catch them. Sometimes
armed men loomed up ahead, crying “ Stoil” and raising
their guns, but our chauffeur only yelled something unintel¬
ligible and we hurtled on....

I picked up a copy of the paper, and under a fleeting
street-light read:


To the Citizens of Russia!

The Provisional Government is deposed. The State Power has
passed into the hands of the organ of the Petrograd Soviet of
Workers’ and Soldiers’ Deputies, the Military Revolutionary Com¬
mittee, which stands at the head of the Petrograd proletariat and
garrison.

The cause for which the people were fighting: immediate pro¬
posal of a democratic peace, abolition of landlord property-rights
over the land, labour control over production, creation of a So-


96












Entrance to Smolny, guarded by soldiers and Red Guards











viet Government—that cause is securely achieved.

Long live the revolution of workmen, soldiers and peasants!

Military Revolutionary Committee.
Petrograd Soviet of Workers’ and
Soldiers’ Deputies.

A slant-eyed, Mongolian-faced man who sat beside me,
dressed in a goat-skin Caucasian cape, snapped, “Look out!
Here the provocators always shoot from the windows!” We
turned into Znamensky Square, dark and almost deserted,
careened around Trubetskoy’s brutal statue 1 and swung
down the wide Nevsky, three men standing up with rifles
ready, peering at the windows. Behind us the street was alive
with people running and stooping. We could no longer hear
the cannon, and the nearer we drew to the Winter Palace
end of the city the quieter and more deserted were the
streets. The City Duma was all brightly lighted. Beyond that
we made out a dark mass of people, and a line of sailors,
who yelled furiously at us to stop. The machine slowed
down, and we climbed out.

It was an astonishing scene. Just at the corner of the Eka¬
terina Canal, under an arc-light, a cordon of armed sailors
was drawn across the Nevsky, blocking the way to a crowd of
people in column of fours. There were about three or four
hundred of them, men in frock coats, well-dressed women,
officers—all sorts and conditions of people. Among them we
recognised many of the delegates from the Congress, leaders
of the Mensheviki and Socialist Revolutionaries; Avksentiev,
the lean, red-bearded president of the Peasants’ Soviets,
Sarokin, Kerensky’s spokesman, Khintchuk, Abramovitch;
and at the head white-bearded old Schreider, Mayor of Pet¬
rograd, and Prokopovitch, Minister of Supplies in the Pro¬
visional Government, arrested that morning and released. I
caught sight of Malkin, reporter for the Russian Daily News . 2
“Going to die in the Winter Palace,” he shouted cheerfully.
The procession stood still, but from the front of it came loud
argument. Schreider and Prokopovitch were bellowing at the
big sailor who seemed in command.

“We demand to pass!” they cried. “See, these comrades
come from the Congress of Soviets! Look at their tickets!
We are going to the Winter Palace!”

The sailor was plainly puzzled. He scratched his head with
an enormous hand, frowning. “I have orders from the Com¬
mittee not to let anybody go to the Winter Palace,” he
grumbled. “But I will send a comrade to telephone to Smol-
ny....”


■The reference is to the memorial to Tsar Alexander III.— Ed.

2The English-language newspaper published in Petrograd in 1917.— Ed.

97

7-253







“We insist upon passing! We are unarmed! We will march
on whether you permit us or not!” cried old Schreider, very
excited.

“I have orders—” repeated the sailor sullenly.

“Shoot us if you want to! We will pass! Forward!” came
from all sides. “We are ready to die, if you have the heart
to fire on Russians and comrades! We bare our breasts to
your guns!”

“No,” said the sailor, looking stubborn, “I can’t allow you
to pass.”

“What will you do if we go forward? Will you shoot?”

“No, I’m not going to shoot people who haven’t any guns.
We won’t shoot unarmed Russian people....”

“We will go forward! What can you do?”

“We will do something,” replied the sailor, evidently at a
loss. “We can’t let you pass. We will do something.”

“What will you do? What will you do?”

Another sailor came up, very much irritated. “We will
spank you!” he cried, energetically. “And if necessary we will
shoot you too. Go home now, and leave us in peace!”

At this there was a great clamour of anger and resentment.
Prokopovitch had mounted some sort of box, and, waving
his umbrella, he made a speech:

“Comrades and citizens!” he said. “Force is being used
against us! We cannot have our innocent blood upon the
hands of these ignorant men! It is beneath our dignity to
be shot down here in the street by switchmen — ” (What he
meant by “switchmen” I never discovered.) “Let us return
to the Duma and discuss the best means of saving the coun¬
try and the Revolution!”

Whereupon, in dignified silence, the procession marched
around and back up the Nevsky, always in column of fours.
And taking advantage of the diversion we slipped past
the guards and set off in the direction of the Winter
Palace.

Flere it was absolutely dark, and nothing moved but
pickets of soldiers and Red Guards grimly intent. In front
of the Kazan Cathedral a three-inch field-gun lay in the
middle of the street, slewed sideways from the recoil of its
last shot over the roofs. Soldiers were standing in every door¬
way talking in low tones and peering down toward the Police
Bridge. I heard one voice saying: “It is possible that we have
done wrong....” At the corners patrols stopped all passers-
by—and the composition of these patrols was interesting, for
in command of the regular troops was invariably a Red
Guard.... The shooting had ceased.

Just as we came to the Morskaya somebody was shouting:
“The ylinkers have sent word they want us to go and get them


98







out!” Voices began to give commands, and in the thick
gloom we made out a dark mass moving forward, silent but
for the shuffle of feet and the clinking of arms. We fell in
with the first ranks.

Like a black river, filling all the street, without song or
cheer we poured through the Red Arch, where the man just
ahead of me said in a low voice: “Look out, comrades! Don’t
trust them. They will fire, surely!” In the open we began
to run, stooping low and bunching together, and jammed up
suddenly behind the pedestal of the Alexander Column.

“How many of you did they kill?” I asked.

“I don’t know. About ten....”

After a few minutes huddling there, some hundreds of
men, the army seemed reassured and without any orders
suddenly began again to flow forward. By this time, in the
light that streamed out of all the Winter Palace windows, I
could see that the first two or three hundred men were Red
Guards, with only a few scattered soldiers. Over the bar¬
ricade of firewood we clambered, and leaping down inside
gave a triumphant shout as we stumbled on a heap of rifles
thrown down by the yunkers who had stood there. On both
sides of the main gateway the doors stood wide open, light
streamed out, and from the huge pile came not the slightest
sound.

Carried along by the eager wave of men we were swept in¬
to the right-hand entrance, opening into a great bare vault¬
ed room, the cellar of the East wing, from which issued a
maze of corridors and staircases. A number of huge packing
cases stood about, and upon these the Red Guards and sol¬
diers fell furiously battering them open with the butts of
their rifles, and pulling out carpets, curtains, linen, porce¬
lain plates, glassware.... One man went strutting around with
a bronze clock perched on his shoulder; another found a
plume of ostrich feathers, which he struck in his hat. The
looting was just beginning when somebody cried, “Com¬
rades! Don’t touch anything! Don’t take anything! This is the
property of the People!” Immediately twenty voices were cry¬
ing, “Stop! Put everything back! Don’t take anything! Prop¬
erty of the People!” Many hands dragged the spoilers down.
Damask and tapestry were snatched from the arms of those
who had them; two men took away the bronze clock. Rough¬
ly and hastily the things were crammed back in their cases,
and self-appointed sentinels stood guard. It was all utterly
spontaneous. Through corridors and up staircases the cry
could be heard growing fainter and fainter in the distance,
“Revolutionary discipline! Property of the People....”

We crossed back over to the left entrance, in the West
wing. There order was also being established. “Clear the Pal-


7 *


99








ace!” bawled a Red Guard, sticking his head through an in¬
ner door. ‘‘Come, comrades, let’s show that we’re not thieves
and bandits. Everybody out of the Palace except the Com¬
missars, until we get sentries posted.”

Two Red Guards, a soldier and an officer, stood with
revolvers in their hands. Another soldier sat at a table
behind them, with pen and paper. Shouts of “All out! All
out!” were heard far and near within, and the Army began
to pour through the door, jostling, expostulating, arguing.
As each man appeared he was seized by the self-appointed
committee, who went through his pockets and looked under
his coat. Everything that was plainly not his property was
taken away, the man at the table noted it on his paper, and
it was carried into a little room. The most amazing assort¬
ment of objects were thus confiscated: statuettes, bottles of
ink, bed-spreads worked with the Imperial monogram,
candles, a small oil-painting, desk blotters, gold-handled
swords, cakes of soap, clothes of every description, blankets.
One Red Guard carried three rifles, two of which he had
taken away from yunkers; another had four portfolios bulg¬
ing with written documents. The culprits either sullenly sur¬
rendered or pleaded like children. All talking at once the
committee explained that stealing was not worthy of the
people’s champions; often those who had been caught
turned around and began to help go through the rest of the
comrades«3».

Yunkers came out, in bunches of three or four. The com¬
mittee seized upon them with an excess of zeal, accompany¬
ing the search with remarks like, “Ah, Provocators! Kor-
nilovists! Counter-revolutionists! Murderers of the People!”
But there was no violence done, although the yunkers were
terrified. They too had their pockets full of small plunder.
It was carefully noted down by the scribe, and piled in the
little room.... The yunkers were disarmed. “Now, will you take
up arms against the People any more?” demanded clamour¬
ing voices.

“No,” answered the yunkers, one by one. Whereupon they
were allowed to go free.

We asked if we might go inside. The committee was doubt¬
ful, but the big Red Guard answered firmly that it was
forbidden. “Who are you anyway?” he asked. “How do I
know that you are not all Kerenskys?” (There were five of
us, two women.)

Pazhal’st’, tovarishtchi! Way, Comrades!” A soldier and a
Red Guard appeared in the door, waving the crowd aside,
and other guards with fixed bayonets. After them followed
single file half a dozen men in civilian dress—the members
of the Provisional Government. First came Kishkin, his face


100







drawn and pale, then Rutenberg, looking sullenly at the
floor; Terestchenko was next, glancing sharply around; he
stared at us with cold fixity.... They passed in silence; the
victorious insurrectionists crowded to see, but there were
only a few angry mutterings. It was only later that we
learned how the people in the street wanted to lynch them,
and shots were fired—but the sailors brought them safely to
Peter-Paul....

In the meanwhile unrebuked we walked into the Palace.
There was still a great deal of coming and going, of explor¬
ing new-found apartments in the vast edifice, of searching
for hidden garrisons of yunkers which did not exist. We went
upstairs and wandered through room after room. This part
of the Palace had been entered also by other detachments
from the side of the Neva. The paintings, statues, tapestries
and rugs of the great state apartments were unharmed; in
the offices, however, every desk and cabinet had been ran¬
sacked, the papers scattered over the floor, and in the liv¬
ing rooms beds had been stripped of their coverings and
ward-robes wrenched open. The most highly prized loot was
clothing, which the working people needed. In a room where
furniture was stored we came upon two soldiers ripping the
elaborate Spanish leather upholstery from chairs. They ex¬
plained it was to make boots with....

The old Palace servants in their blue and red and gold
uniforms stood nervously about, from force of habit repeat¬
ing, “You can’t go in there, barin ! It is forbidden—” We
penetrated at length to the gold and malachite chamber with
crimson brocade hanging where the Ministers had been in
session all that day and night, and where the shveitzari had
betrayed them to the Red Guards. The long table covered
with green baize was just as they had left it, under arrest.
Before each empty seat was pen and ink and paper; the pa¬
pers were scribbled over with beginnings of plans of action,
rough drafts of proclamations and manifestos. Most of these
were scratched out, as their futility became evident, and the
rest of the sheet covered with absent-minded geometrical
designs, as the writers sat despondently listening while Min¬
ister after Minister proposed chimerical schemes. I took one
of these scribbled pages, in the handwriting of Konovalov,
which read, “The Provisional Government appeals to all
classes to support the Provisional Government—”

All this time, it must be remembered, although the Winter
Palace was surrounded, the Government was in constant
communication with the Front and with provincial Russia.
The Bolsheviki had captured the Ministry of War early in
the morning, but they ciid not know of the military telegraph
office in the attic, nor of the private telephone line connect-


101



ing it with the Winter Palace. In that attic a young officer sat
all day, pouring out over the country a flood of appeals and
proclamations; and when he heard that the Palace had fallen,
put on his hat and walked calmly out of the building....


Interested as we were, for a considerable time we didn’t
notice a change in the attitude of the soldiers and Red
Guards around us. As we strolled from room to room a small
group followed us, until by the time we reached the great
picture-gallery where we had spent the afternoon with the
yunkers, about a hundred men surged in after us. One giant
of a soldier stood in our path, his face dark with sullen sus¬
picion.

“Who are you?” he growled. “What are you doing here?”
The others massed slowly around, staring and beginning to
mutter. “ Provocatoril” I heard somebody say. “Looters!” I
produced our passes from the Military Revolutionary Com¬
mittee. The soldier took them gingerly, turned them upside
down and looked at them without comprehension. Evidently
he could not read. He handed them back and spat on the
floor. “ Bumagil Papers!” said he with contempt. The mass
slowly began to close in, like wild cattle around a cow-
puncher on foot. Over their heads I caught sight of an of¬
ficer, looking helpless, and shouted to him. He made for us,
shouldering his way through.

“I’m the Commissar,” he said to me. “Who are you? What
is it?” The others held back, waiting. I produced the papers.
“You are foreigners?” he rapidly asked in French. “It is very
dangerous....” Then he turned to the mob, holding up our
documents. “Comrades!” he cried. “These people are for¬
eign comrades—from America. They have come here to be
able to tell their countrymen about the bravery and the rev¬
olutionary discipline of the proletarian army!”

“How do you know that?” replied the big soldier. “I tell
you they are provocators! They say they came here to ob¬
serve the revolutionary discipline of the proletarian army,
but they have been wandering freely through the Palace, and
how do we know they haven’t got their pockets full of loot?”

PravilnoV' snarled the others, pressing forward.

“Comrades! Comrades!” appealed the officer, sweat stand¬
ing out on his forehead. “I am Commissar of the Military
Revolutionary Committee. Do you trust me? Well, I tell you
that these passes are signed with the same names that are
signed to my pass!”

He led us down through the Palace and out through a
door opening onto the Neva quay, before which stood the
usual committee going through pockets.... “You have nar-


102










rowly escaped,” he kept muttering, wiping his face.

“What happened to the Women’s Battalion?” we asked.

“Oh — the women!” He laughed. “They were all huddled
up in a back room. We had a terrible time deciding what
to do with them—many were in hysterics, and so on. So
finally we marched them up to the Finland Station and
put them on a train for Levashovo, where they have a
camp....”«4»

We came out into the cold, nervous night, murmurous
with obscure armies on the move, electric with patrols. From
across the river, where loomed the darker mass of Peter-
Paul, came a hoarse shout.... Underfoot the side-walk was
littered with broken stucco, from the cornice of the Palace
where two shells from the battleship Avrora had struck; that
was the only damage done by the bombardment.... 1

It was now after three in the morning. On the Nevsky
all the street-lights were again shining, the cannon gone,
and the only signs of war were Red Guards and soldiers
squatting around fires. The city was quiet—probably never
so quiet in its history; on that night not a single hold-up
occurred, not a single robbery.

But the City Duma building was all illuminated. We
mounted to the galleried Alexander Hall, hung with its
great, gold-framed, red-shrouded Imperial portraits. About
a hundred people were grouped around the platform, where
Skobeliev was speaking. He urged that the Committee of
Public Safety be expanded, so as to unite all the anti-Bol¬
shevik elements in one huge organisation, to be called the
Committee for Salvation of Country and Revolution. And as
we looked on, the Committee for Salvation was formed—that
Committee which was to develop into the most powerful
enemy of the Bolsheviki, appearing, in the next week, some¬
times under its own partisan name, and sometimes as the
stricdy non-partisan Committee of Public Safety....

Dan, Gotz, Avksentiev were there, some of the insurgent
Soviet delegates, members of the Executive Committee of
the Peasants’ Soviets, old Prokopovitch, and even members
of the Council of the Republic—among whom Vinaver and
other Cadets. Lieber cried that the convention of Soviets
was not a legal convention, that the old Tsay-ee-kah was still
in office.... An appeal to the country was drafted.

We hailed a cab. “Where to?” But when we said “Smol-
ny,” the izvoshtchik shook his head. “ Nietl” said he, “there


1 The reference to the shells fired by Avrora is not correct: on Novem¬
ber 7, 1917 at 9.45 P.M. the cruiser Avrora fired one blank shell, giving
the signal for the storming of the Winter Palace. The damage John Reed
refers to was made by the shelling from Peter and Paul Fortress. — Ed.


103






are devils....” It was only after weary wandering that we
found a driver willing to take us—and he wanted thirty
roubles, and stopped two blocks away.

The windows of Smolny were still ablaze, motors came
and went, and around the still-leaping fires the sentries
huddled close, eagerly asking everybody the latest news. The
corridors were full of hurrying men, hollow-eyed and dirty.
In some of the committee-rooms people lay sleeping on the
floor, their guns beside them. In spite of the seceding
delegates, the hall of meetings was crowded with people,
roaring like the sea. As we came in, Kameniev was reading
the list of arrested Ministers. The name of Terestchenko
was greeted with thunderous applause, shouts of satisfac¬
tion, laughter; Rutenberg came in for less; and at the men¬
tion of Paltchinsky, a storm of hoots, angry cries, cheers
burst forth.... It was announced that Tchudnovsky had been
appointed Commissar of the Winter Palace.

Now occurred a dramatic interruption. A big peasant, his
bearded face convulsed with rage, mounted the platform and
pounded with his fist on the presidium table.

“We, Socialist Revolutionaries, insist upon the immediate
release of the Socialist Ministers arrested in the Winter Pal¬
ace! Comrades! Do you know that four comrades who risked
their lives and their freedom fighting against tyranny of the
Tsar, have been flung into Peter-Paul prison — the historical
tomb of Liberty?” In the uproar he pounded and yelled. An¬
other delegate climbed up beside him, and pointed at the
presidium.

“Are the representatives of the revolutionary masses going
to sit quietly here while the Okhrana of the Bolsheviki tortures
their leaders?”

Trotzky was gesturing for silence. “These ‘comrades’ who
are now caught plotting the crushing of the Soviets with the
adventurer Kerensky—is there any reason to handle them
with gloves? After July 16th and 18th they didn’t use much
ceremony with us!” With a triumphant ring in his voice he
cried, “Now that the oborontsi and the faint-hearted have


gone, and the whole task of defending and saving the Rev¬
olution rests on our shoulders, it is particularly necessary to
work—work — work! We have decided to die rather than give


Followed him a Commissar from Tsarskoye Selo, panting
and covered with the mud of his ride. “The garrison of
Tsarskoye Selo is on guard at the gates of Petrograd, ready
to defend the Soviets and the Military Revolutionary Com¬
mittee!” Wild cheers. “The Cycle Corps sent from the front
has arrived at Tsarskoye, and the soldiers are now with us;


they recognise the power of the Soviets, the necessity of im-


104




mediate transfer of land to the peasants and industrial con¬
trol to the workers. The Fifth Battalion of Cyclists, stationed
at Tsarskoye, is ours....”

Then the delegate of the Third Cycle Battalion. In the
midst of delirious enthusiasm he told how the Cycle Corps
had been ordered three days before from the South-west front
to the “defence of Petrograd.” They suspected, however, the
meaning of the order; and at the station of Peredolsk were
met by representatives of the Fifth Battalion from Tsar¬
skoye. A joint meeting was held, and it was discovered that
“among the cyclists not a single man was found willing to
shed the blood of his brothers, or to support a Government
of bourgeois and landowners!”

Kapelinski, for the Mensheviki Internationalists, proposed
to elect a special committee to find a peaceful solution to the
civil war. “There isn’t any peaceful solution!” bellowed the
crowd. “Victory is the only solution!” The vote was over¬
whelmingly against, and the Mensheviki Internationalists left
the Congress in a whirlwind of jocular insults. There was no
longer any panic fear.... Kameniev from the platform shout¬
ed after them, “The Mensheviki Internationalists claimed
’emergency’ for the question of a ’peaceful solution,’ but
they always voted for suspension of the order of the day in
favour of declarations of factions which wanted to leave the
Congress. It is evident,” finished Kameniev, “that the with¬
drawal of all these renegades was decided upon before¬
hand!”

The assembly decided to ignore the withdrawal of the fac¬
tions, and proceed to the appeal to the workers, soldiers
and peasants of all Russia:

To Workers, Soldiers and Peasants

The Second All-Russian Congress of Soviets of Workers’ and
Soldiers’ Deputies has opened. It represents the great majority of
the Soviets. There are also a number of Peasant deputies. Based
upon the will of the great majority of the workers, soldiers and
peasants, based upon the triumphant uprising of the Petrograd
workmen and soldiers, the Congress assumes the Power.

The Provisional Government is deposed. Most of the members of
the Provisional Government are already arrested.

The Soviet authority will at once propose an immediate demo¬
cratic peace to all nations, and an immediate truce on all fronts.
It will assure the free transfer of landlord, crown and monastery
lands to the Land Committees, defend the soldiers’ rights, enforc¬
ing a complete democratisation of the Army, establish workers’
control over production, ensure the convocation of the Constituent
Assembly at the proper date, take means to supply bread to the
cities and articles of first necessity to the villages, and secure to
all nationalities living in Russia a real right to independent
existence.


105









The Congress resolves: that all local power shall be trans¬
ferred to the Soviets of Workers’, Soldiers’ and Peasants’ Deputies,
which must enforce revolutionary order.

The Congress calls upon the soldiers in the trenches to be
watchful and steadfast. The Congress of Soviets is sure that the
revolutionary Army will know how to defend the Revolution against
all attacks of Imperialism, until the new Government shall have
brought about the conclusion of the democratic peace which it will
directly propose to all nations. The new Government will take all
necessary steps to secure everything needful to the revolutionary
Army, by means of a determined policy of requisition and taxation
of the propertied classes, and also to improve the situation of sol¬
diers’ families.

The Kornilovtsi—Kerensky, Kaledin and others, are endeavour¬
ing to lead troops against Petrograd. Several regiments, deceived
by Kerensky, have sided with the insurgent People.

Soldiers! Make active resistance to the Kornilovetz—Kerensky!
Be on guard!

Railway men! Stop all troop-trains being sent by Kerensky against
Petrograd!

Soldiers, Workers, Clerical employees! The destiny of the Revolu¬
tion and democratic peace is in your hands!

Long live the Revolution!

The All-Russian Congress of Soviets
of Workers’ and Soldiers’ Deputies.

Delegates from the Peasants’ Soviets . 1

It was exactly 5:17 A.M. when Krylenko, staggering with
fatigue, climbed to the tribune with a telegram in his hand.

“Comrades! From the Northern Front. The Twelfth Army
sends greetings to the Congress of Soviets, announcing the
formation of a Military Revolutionary Committee which has
taken over the command of the Northern Front!” Pandemo¬
nium, men weeping, embracing each other. “General Tche-
remissov has recognised the Committee—Commissar of the
Provisional Government Voitinsky has resigned!”

So, Lenin and the Petrograd workers had decided on in¬
surrection, the Petrograd Soviet had overthrown the Pro¬
visional Government, and thrust the coup d’etat upon the
Congress of Soviets. Now there was all great Russia to win—
and then the world! Would Russia follow and rise? And the
world—what of it? Would the peoples answer and rise, a red
world-tide?

Although it was six in the morning, night was yet heavy
and chill. There was only a faint unearthly pallor stealing
over the silent streets, dimming the watch-fires, the shadow
of a terrible dawn grey-rising over Russia....


'The signature, “Delegates from the Peasants’ Soviets,” was added after
a representative of the peasants had made a declaration to this effect.— Ed.








Chapter V

PLUNGING AHEAD


Thursday, November 8th. Day broke on a city in the wild¬
est excitement and confusion, a whole nation heaving up in
long hissing swells of storm. Superficially all was quiet; hun¬
dreds of thousands of people retired at a prudent hour, got
up early, and went to work. In Petrograd the street-cars were
running, the stores and restaurants open, theatres going, an
exhibition of paintings advertised.... All the complex routine
of common life—humdrum even in war-time—proceeded as
usual. Nothing is so astounding as the vitality of the social
organism—how it persists, feeding itself, clothing itself,
amusing itself, in the face of the worst calamities....

The air was full of rumours about Kerensky, who was said
to have raised the Front, and to be leading a great army
against the capital. Volia Naroda published a prikaz launched
by him at Pskov:

The disorders caused by the insane attempt of the Bolsheviki
place the country on the verge of a precipice, and demand the ef¬
fort of our entire will, our courage and the devotion of every one
of us, to win through the terrible trial which the fatherland is un¬
dergoing....

Until the declaration of the composition of the new Govern¬
ment— if one is formed—every one ought to remain at his post and
fulfil his duty toward bleeding Russia. It must be remembered
that the least interference with existing Army organisations can
bring on irreparable misfortunes, by opening the front to the ene¬
my. Therefore it is indispensable to preserve at any price the mo¬
rale of the troops, by assuring complete order and the preservation
of the Army from new shocks, and by maintaining absolute confi¬
dence between officers and their subordinates. I order all the chiefs
and Commissars, in the name of the safety of the country, to stay
at their posts, as I myself retain the post of Supreme Commander,
until the Provisional Government of the Republic shall declare its
will....

In answer, this placard on all the walls:

From the All-Russian Congress of Soviets

“The ex-Ministers Konovalov, Kishkin, Terestchenko, Malianto-
vitch, Nikitin and others have been arrested by the Military Revo¬
lutionary Committee. Kerensky has fled. All Army organisations are


107







ordered to take every measure for the immediate arrest of Keren¬
sky and his conveyance to Petrograd.

“All assistance given to Kerensky will be punished as a serious
crime against the state.”

With brakes released, the Military Revolutionary Commit¬
tee whirled, throwing off orders, appeals, decrees, like
sparks«l».... Kornilov was ordered to be brought in to Petro¬
grad. Members of the Peasant Land Committees imprisoned
by the Provisional Government were declared free. Capital
punishment in the army was abolished. Government em¬
ployees were ordered to continue their work, and threatened
with severe penalties if they refused. All pillage, disorder
and speculation were forbidden under pain of death. Tem¬
porary Commissars were appointed to the various Ministries:
Foreign Affairs, Uritzky and Trotzky; Interior and Justice,
Rykov; Labour, Shliapnikov; Finance, Menzhinsky; Public
Welfare, Madame Kollontai; Commerce, Ways and Commu¬
nications, Riazanov; Navy, the sailor Korbir; Posts and Tel¬
egraphs, Spiro; Theatres, Muraviov; State Printing Office,
Derbyshev; for the City of Petrograd, Lieutenant Nesterov;
for the Northern Front, Pozern.... 1

To the Army, appeal to set up Military Revolutionary
Committees. To the railway workers, to maintain order, es¬
pecially not to delay the transport of food to the cities and
the front.... In return, they were promised representation in
the Ministry of Ways and Communications.

Cossack brothers! (said one proclamation). You are being led
against Petrograd. They want to force you into battle with the revo¬
lutionary workers and soldiers of the capital. Do not believe a word
that is said by our common enemies, the land-owners and the capi¬
talists.

At our Congress are represented all the conscious organisations
of workers, soldiers and peasants of Russia. The Congress wishes
also to welcome into its midst the worker-Cossacks. The Generals
of the Black Band, henchmen of the land-owners, of Nicolai the
Cruel, are our enemies.

They tell you that the Soviets wish to confiscate the lands of the
Cossacks. This is a lie. It is only from the great Cossack landlords
that the Revolution will confiscate the land to give it to the people.

Organise Soviets of Cossacks’ Deputies! Join with the Soviets of
Workers’ and Soldiers’ Deputies!

Show the Black Band that you are not traitors to the People,


■The appointments of temporary Commissars given here are not quite
correct: Uritzky alone was appointed to the Foreign Ministry; the Navy Mi¬
nistry was entrusted to the Naval Military Revolutionary Committee elect¬
ed by the representatives of all Fleets at the All-Russian Congress of So¬
viets.— Ed.


108

















and that you do not wish to be cursed bv the whole of revolutionary
Russia!...

Cossack brothers, execute no orders of the enemies of the people.
Send your delegates to Petrograd to talk it over with us.... The Cos¬
sacks of the Petrograd garrison, to their honour, have not justified
the hope of the People’s enemies....

Cossack brothers! The All-Russian Congress of Soviets extends
to you a fraternal hand. Long live the brotherhood of the Cossacks
with the soldiers, workers and peasants of all Russia! 1

On the other side, what a storm of proclamations posted
up, hand-bills«2» scattered everywhere, newspapers—scream¬
ing and cursing and prophesying evil. Now raged the battle of
the printing press—all other weapons being in the hands of
the Soviets.

First, the appeal of the Committee for Salvation of Coun¬
try and Revolution, flung broadcast over Russia and Europe:

To the Citizens of the Russian Republic!

Contrary to the will of the revolutionary masses, on Novem¬
ber 7th the Bolsheviki of Petrograd criminally arrested part of the
Provisional Government, dispersed the Council of the Republic, and
proclaimed an illegal power. Such violence committed against the
Government of revolutionary Russia at the moment of its greatest
external danger, is an indescribable crime against the fatherland.

The insurrection of the Bolsheviki deals a mortal blow to the
cause of national defence, and postpones immeasurably the moment
of peace so greatly desired.

Civil war, begun by the Bolsheviki, threatens to deliver the coun¬
try to the horrors of anarchy and counter-revolution, and cause the
failure of the Constituent Assembly, which must affirm the repub¬
lican regime and transmit to the People forever their right to the
land.

Preserving the continuity of the only legal Governmental power,
the Committee for Salvation of Country and Revolution, established
on the night of November 7th, takes the initiative in forming a new
Provisional Government; which, basing itself on the forces of de¬
mocracy, will conduct the country to the Constituent Assembly and
save it from anarchy and counter-revolution. The Committee for
Salvation summons you, citizens, to refuse to recognise the power
of violence. Do not obey its orders!

Rise for the defence of the country and Revolution!

Support the Committee for Salvation!

Signed by the Council of the Russian Republic, the Municipal
Duma of Petrograd, the Tsay-ee-kah ( First Congress ), the Executi
Committee of the Peasants’ Soviets, and from the Congress itself
the Front group, the factions of Socialist Revolutionaries, Menshe-
viki. Populist Socialists, Unified Social Democrats, and the group
“Yedinstvo.”


•The appeal was signed by the All-Russian Congress of Workers’ and
Soldiers’ Deputies. — Ed.


109






Then posters from the Socialist Revolutionary party, the
Mensheviki oborontsi , Peasants’ Soviets again; from the Cen¬
tral Army Committee, the Tsentroflot....

...Famine will crush Petrograd! (they cried). The German armies
will trample on our liberty. Black Hundred pogroms will spread over
Russia, if we all—conscious workers, soldiers, citizens—do not
unite....

Do not trust the promises of the Bolsheviki! The promise of im¬
mediate peace—is a lie! The promise of bread—-a hoax! The prom¬
ise of land—a fairy tale!...

They were all in this manner.

Comrades! You have been basely and cruelly deceived! The sei¬
zure of power has been accomplished by the Bolsheviki alone....
They concealed their plot from the other Socialist parties compos¬
ing the Soviet....

You have been promised land and freedom, but the counter-rev¬
olution will profit by the anarchy called forth by the Bolsheviki,
and will deprive you of land and freedom....

The newspapers were as violent.

Our duty (said the Dielo Naroda ) is to unmask these traitors to the
working-class. Our duty is to mobilise all our forces and mount
guard over the cause of the Revolution!...

Izviestia, for the last time speaking in the name of the old
Tsay-ee-kah, threatened awful retribution.

As for the Congress of Soviets, we affirm that there has been no
Congress of Soviets! We affirm that it was merely a private con¬
ference of the Bolshevik faction! And in that case, they have no
right to cancel the powers of the Tsay-ee-kah....

Novaya Zhizn, while pleading for a new Government that
should unite all the Socialist parties, criticised severely the
action of the Socialist Revolutionaries and the Mensheviki in
quitting the Congress, and pointed out that the Bolshevik in¬
surrection meant one thing very clearly: that all illusions
about coalition with the bourgeoisie were henceforth demon¬
strated vain....

Rabolchi Put blossomed out as Pravda, Lenin’s newspaper
which had been suppressed in July. It crowed, bristling:

Workers, soldiers, peasants! In March you struck down the tyran¬
ny of the clique of nobles. Yesterday you struck down the tyranny
of the bourgeois gang....

The first task now is to guard the approaches to Petro¬
grad.


110













The second is definitely to disarm the counter-revolutionary ele¬
ments of Petrograd.

The third is definitely to organise the revolutionary power and
assure the realisation of the popular programme....

What few Cadet organs appeared, and the bourgeoisie
generally, adopted a detached, ironical attitude toward the
whole business, a sort of contemptuous “I-told-you-so” to the
other parties. Influential Cadets were to be seen hovering
around the Municipal Duma, and on the outskirts of the
Committee for Salvation. Other than that, the bourgeoisie lay
low, abiding its hour—which could not be far off. That the
Bolsheviki would remain in power longer than three days
never occurred to anybody—except perhaps to Lenin, Trotz-
ky, the Petrograd workers and the simpler soldiers....

In the high, amphitheatrical Nicolai Hall that afternoon I
saw the Duma sitting in permanence, tempestuous, grouping
around it all the forces of opposition. The old Mayor, Schrei-
der, majestic with his white hair and beard, was describing
his visit to Smolny the night before, to protest in the name
of the Municipal Self-Government. “The Duma, being the
only existing legal Government in the city, elected by equal,
direct and secret suffrage, would not recognise the new pow¬
er,” he had told Trotzky. And Trotzky had answered,
“There is a constitutional remedy for that. The Duma can be
dissolved and re-elected....” At this report there was a fu¬
rious outcry.

“If one recognises a Government by bayonet,” continued
the old man, addressing the Duma, “well, we have one; but
I consider legitimate only a Government recognised by the
people, by the majority, and not one created by the usur¬
pation of a minority!” Wild applause on all benches except
those of the Bolsheviki. Amid renewed tumult the Mayor
announced that the Bolsheviki already were violating Muni¬
cipal autonomy by appointing Commissars in many depart¬
ments.

The Bolshevik speaker shouted, trying to make himself
heard, that the decision of the Congress of Soviets meant
that all Russia backed up the action of the Bolsheviki.

“You!” he cried. “You are not the real representative of
the people of Petrograd!” Shrieks of “Insult! Insult!” The
old Mayor, with dignity, reminded him that the Duma was
elected by the freest possible popular vote. “Yes,” he an¬
swered, “but that was a long time ago—like the Tsay-ee-kah —
like the Army Committee.”

“There has been no new Congress of Soviets!” They yelled
at him.

“The Bolshevik faction refuses to remain any longer in


ill








this nest of counter-revolution—” Uproar. “—and we de¬
mand a re-election of the Duma....” Whereupon the Bolshe-
viki left the chamber, followed by cries of ‘‘German agents!
Down with the traitors!”

Shingariov, Cadet, then demanded that all Municipal func¬
tionaries who had consented to be Commissars of the Mili¬
tary Revolutionary Committee be discharged from their po¬
sition and indicted. Schreider was on his feet, putting a mo¬
tion to the effect that the Duma protested against the men¬
ace of the Bolsheviki to dissolve it, and as the legal repre¬
sentative of the population, it would refuse to leave its
post.

Outside, the Alexander Hall was crowded for the meeting
of the Committee for Salvation, and Skobeliev was again
speaking. “Never yet,” he said, “was the fate of the Revo¬
lution so acute, never yet did the question of the existence
of the Russian state excite so much anxiety, never yet did
history put so harshly and categorically the question—is Rus¬
sia to be or not to be! The great hour for the salvation of
the Revolution has arrived, and in consciousness thereof we
observe the close union of the live forces of the revolution¬
ary democracy, by whose organised will a centre for the sal¬
vation of the country and the Revolution has already been
created....” And much of the same sort. “We shall die sooner
than surrender our post!”

Amid violent applause it was announced that the Union of
Railway Workers had joined the Committee for Salvation. A
few moments later the Post and Telegraph Employees came
in; then some Menshevik! Internationalists entered the hall,
to cheers. The Railway men said they did not recognise the
Bolsheviki and had taken the entire railroad apparatus into
their own hands, refusing to entrust it to any usurpatory
power. The Telegraphers’ delegate declared that the operat¬
ors had flatly refused to work their instruments as long as
the Bolshevik Commissar was in the office. The Postmen
would not deliver or accept mail at Smolny.... All the Smol-
ny telephones were cut off. With great glee it was reported
how Uritzky had gone to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to
demand the secret treaties, and how Neratov 1 had put him
out. The Government employees were all stopping work....

It was war—war deliberately planned, Russian fashion; war
by strike and sabotage. As we sat there the chairman read
a list of names and assignments; so-and-so was to make the
round of the Ministries; another was to visit the banks; some
ten or twelve were to work the barracks and persuade the


1 Neratov, Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Provisional Govern¬
ment, a former tsarist diplomat.— Ed.


112








soldiers to remain neutral — “Russian soldiers, do not shed
the blood of your brothers!”; a committee was to go and con¬
fer with Kerensky; still others were despatched to provincial
cities, to form branches of the Committee for Salvation, and
link together the anti-Bolshevik elements.

The crowd was in high spirits. “These Bolsheviki will try to
dictate to the intelligentzia ? We’ll show them!”

...Nothing could be more striking than the contrast be¬
tween this assemblage and the Congress of Soviets. There,
great masses of shabby soldiers, grimy workmen, peasants—
poor men, bent and scarred in the brute struggle for exist¬
ence; here the Menshevik and Social Revolutionary leaders—
Avksentievs, Dans, Liebers,—the former Socialist Ministers—
Skobelievs, Tchernovs,—rubbed shoulders with Cadets like
oily Shatsky, sleek Vinaver; with journalists, students, intel¬
lectuals of almost all camps. This Duma crowd was well-fed,
well-dressed; I did not see more than three proletarians
among them all....

News came. Kornilov’s faithful Tekhintsi' had slaughtered
his guards at Bykhov, and he had escaped. Kaledin was
marching north.... The Soviet of Moscow had set up a Milita¬
ry Revolutionary Committee, and was negotiating with the
commandant of the city for possession of the arsenal, so that
the workers might be armed.

With these facts was mixed an astounding jumble of ru¬
mours, distortions, and plain lies. For instance, an intelligent
young Cadet, formerly private secretary to Miliukov and
then to Terestchenko, drew us aside and told us all about the
taking of the Winter Palace.

“The Bolsheviki were led by German and Austrian offi¬
cers,” he affirmed.

“Is that so?” we replied, politely. “How do you know?”

“A friend of mine was there and saw them.”

“How could he tell they were German officers?”

“Oh, because they wore German uniforms!”

There were hundreds of such absurd tales, and they were
not only solemnly published by the anti-Bolshevik press, but
believed by the most unlikely persons—Socialist Revolution¬
aries and Mensheviki who had always been distinguished by
their sober devotion to facts....

But more serious were the stories of Bolshevik violence
and terrorism. For example, it was said and printed that the
Red Guards had not only thoroughly looted the Winter Pal¬
ace, but that they had massacred the yunkers after disarming
them, had killed some of the Ministers in cold blood; and
as for the woman soldiers, most of them had been violated,


1 See Notes and Explanations.


8 253


113




and many had committed suicide because of the tortures
they had gone through.... All these stories were swallowed
whole by the crowd in the Duma. And worse still, the moth¬
ers and fathers of the students and of the women read these
frightful details, often accompanied by lists of names, and
toward nightfall the Duma began to be besieged by frantic
citizens....

A typical case is that of Prince Tumanov, whose body, it
was announced in many newspapers, had been found float¬
ing in the Moika Canal. A few hours later this was denied
by the Prince’s family, who added that the Prince was under
arrest, so the press identified the dead man as General De-
nissov. The General having also come to life, we investigated,
and could find no trace of any body having been found
whatever....

As we left the Duma building two boy scouts were distrib¬
uting hand-bills to the enormous crowd which blocked the
Nevsky in front of the door—a crowd composed almost en¬
tirely of business men, shop-keepers, tchinovniki, clerks. One
read:


From the Municipal Duma

The Municipal Duma in its meeting of October 26th, in view of
the events of the day decrees: To announce the inviolability of
private dwellings. Through the House Committees it calls upon the
population of the town of Petrograd to meet with decisive repulse
all attempts to enter by force private apartments, not stopping at
the use of arms, in the interests of the self-defence of citizens.

Up on the corner of the Liteiny, five or six Red Guards
and a couple of sailors had surrounded a news-dealer and
were demanding that he hand over his copies of the Menshe¬
vik Rabolchaya Gazeta (Workers’ Gazette). Angrily he shouted
at them, shaking his fist, as one of the sailors tore the pa¬
pers from his stand. An ugly crowd had gathered around,
abusing the patrol. One little workman kept explaining dog¬
gedly to the people and the news-dealer, over and over
again, “It has Kerensky’s proclamation in it. It says we killed
Russian people. It will make bloodshed....”

Smolny was tenser than ever, if that were possible. The
same running men in the dark corridors, squads of workers
with rifles, leaders with bulging portfolios arguing, explain¬
ing, giving orders as they hurried anxiously along, surround¬
ed by friends and lieutenants. Men literally out of them¬
selves, living prodigies of sleeplessness and work—men un¬
shaven, filthy, with burning eyes, who drove upon their fixed
purpose full speed on engines of exaltation. So much they
had to do, so much! Take over the Government, organise the
City, keep the garrison loyal, fight the Duma and the Corn-


114








mittee for Salvation, keep out the Germans, prepare to do
battle with Kerensky, inform the provinces what had hap¬
pened, propagandise from Archangel to Vladivostok.... Gov¬
ernment and Municipal employees refusing to obey their
Commissars, post and telegraph refusing them communica¬
tion, railroads stonily ignoring their appeals for trains, Ke¬
rensky coming, the garrison not altogether to be trusted, the
Cossacks waiting to come out.... Against them not only the
organised bourgeoisie, but all the other Socialist parties ex¬
cept the Left Socialist Revolutionaries, a few Mensheviki
Internationalists and the Social Democrat Internationalists,
and even they undecided whether to stand by or not. With
them, it is true, the workers and the soldier-masses—the
peasants an unknown quantity—but after all the Bolsheviki
were a political faction not rich in trained and educated
men....

Riazanov was coming up the front steps, explaining in a
sort of humorous panic that he, Commissar of Commerce,
knew nothing whatever of business. In the upstairs cafe sat a
man all by himself in the corner, in a goat-skin cape and
clothes which had been—I was going to say “slept in,” but of
course he hadn’t slept—and a three days’ growth of beard.
He was anxiously figuring on a dirtv envelope, and biting his
pencil meanwhile. This was Menzhinsky, Commissar of Fi¬
nance, whose qualifications were that he had once been a
clerk in a French bank.... And these four half-running down
the hall from the office of the Military Revolutionary Com¬
mittee, and scribbling on bits of paper as they run—these
were Commissars despatched to the four corners of Russia to
carry the news, argue, or fight—with whatever arguments or
weapons came to hand....

The Congress was to meet at one o’clock, and long since
the great meeting-hall had filled, but by seven there was yet
no sign of the presidium.... The Bolshevik and Left Socialist
Revolutionary factions were in session in their own rooms.
All the livelong afternoon Lenin and Trotzky had fought
against compromise. A considerable part of the Bolsheviki
were in favour of giving way so far as to create a joint all-
Socialist government. “We can’t hold on!” they cried. “Too
much is against us. We haven’t got the men. We will be iso¬
lated, and the whole thing will fall.” So Kameniev, Riazanov
and others.

But Lenin, with Trotzky beside him, stood firm as a rock.
“Let the compromisers accept our programme and they can
come in! We won’t give way an inch. If there are comrades
here who haven’t the courage and the will to dare what we
dare, let them leave with the rest of the cowards and con-


115






ciliators! Backed by the workers and soldiers we shall go on.”

At five minutes past seven came word from the Left Social¬
ist Revolutionaries to say that they would remain in the Mili¬
tary Revolutionary Committee.

“See!” said Lenin. “They are following!”

A little later, as we sat at the press table in the big hall,
an Anarchist who was writing for the bourgeois papers pro¬
posed to me that we go and find out what had become of the
presidium. There was nobody in the Tsay-ee-kah office, nor
in the bureau of the Petrograd Soviet. From room to room
we wandered, through vast Smolny. Nobody seemed to have
the slightest idea where to find the governing body of the
Congress. As we went my companion described his ancient
revolutionary activities, his long and pleasant exile in
France.... As for the Bolsheviki, he confided to me that they
were common, rude, ignorant persons, without aesthetic sen¬
sibilities. He was a real specimen of the Russian intelligen¬
tsia.... So we came at last to Room 17, office of the Milita¬
ry Revolutionary Committee, and stood there in the midst of
all the furious coming and going. The door opened, and out
shot a squat, flat-faced man in a uniform without insignia,
who seemed to be smiling—which smile, after a minute, one
saw to be the fixed grin of extreme fatigue. It was Krylenko.

My friend, who was a dapper, civilised-looking young man,
gave a cry of pleasure and stepped forward.

“Nicolai Vasilievitch!” he said, holding out his hand.
“Don’t you remember me, comrade? We were in prison to¬
gether.”

Krylenko made an effort and concentrated his mind and
sight. “Why yes,” he answered finally, looking the other up
and down with an expression of great friendliness. “You are
S—. Zdra’stvuityeV' They kissed. “What are you doing in all
this?” He waved his arm around.

“Oh, I’m just looking on.... You seem very successful.”

“Yes,” replied Krylenko, with a sort of doggedness. “The
proletarian Revolution is a great success.” He laughed.
“Perhaps—perhaps, however, we’ll meet in prison again!”

When we got out into the corridor again my friend went
on with his explanations. “You see, I’m a follower of Kro¬
potkin. To us the Revolution is a great failure; it has not
aroused the patriotism of the masses. Of course that only
proves that the people are not ready for Revolution....”

It was just 8.40 when a thundering wave of cheers an¬
nounced the entrance of the presidium, with Lenin—great
Lenin—among them. A short, stocky figure, with a big head
set down in his shoulders, bald and bulging. Litde eyes, a
snubbish nose, wide, generous mouth, and heavy chin; clean¬
shaven now, but already beginning to bristle with the well-


116














known beard of his past and future. Dressed in shabby
clothes, his trousers much too long for him. Unimpressive, to
be the idol of a mob, loved and revered as perhaps few lead¬
ers in history have been. A strange popular leader—a leader
purely by virtue of intellect; colourless, humourless, uncom¬
promising and detached, without picturesque idiosyncrasies—
but with the power of explaining profound ideas in simple
terms, of analysing a concrete situation. And combined with
shrewdness, the greatest intellectual audacity.

Kameniev was reading the report of the actions of the Mil¬
itary Revolutionary Committee; abolition of capital punish¬
ment in the Army, restoration of the free right of propagan¬
da, release of officers and soldiers arrested for political
crimes, orders to arrest Kerensky and confiscation of food
supplies in private store-houses.... Tremendous applause.

Again the representative of the Bund. The uncompromising
attitude of the Bolsheviki would mean the crushing of the
Revolution; therefore, the Bund delegates must refuse any
longer to sit in the Congress. Cries from the audience, “We
thought you walked out last night! How many more times
are you going to walk out?”

Then the representative of the Mensheviki International¬
ists. Shouts, “What! You here still?” The speaker explained
that only part of the Mensheviki Internationalists left the
Congress; the rest were going to stay—.

“We consider it dangerous and perhaps even mortal for
the Revolution to transfer the power to the Soviets” — Inter¬
ruptions— “but we feel it our duty to remain in the Congress
and vote against the transfer here!”

Other speakers followed, apparently without any order. A
delegate of the coal-miners oi the Don Basin called upon the
Congress to take measures against Kaledin, who might cut
off coal and food from the capital. Several soldiers just ar¬
rived from the front brought the enthusiastic greetings of
their regiments.... Now Lenin, gripping the edge of the read¬
ing stand, letting his litde winking eyes travel over the
crowd as he stood there waiting, apparently oblivious to the
long-rolling ovation, which lasted several minutes. When it
finished, he said simply, “We shall now proceed to construct
the Socialist order!” Again that overwhelming human roar.

“The first thing is the adoption of practical measures to
realise peace.... We shall offer peace to the peoples of all
the belligerent countries upon the basis of the Soviet terms—
no annexations, no indemnities, and the right of self-deter¬
mination of peoples. At the same time, according to our
promise, we shall publish and repudiate the secret treaties....
The question of War and Peace is so clear that I think that
I may, without preamble, read the project of a Proclamation


117





to the Peoples of All the Belligerent Countries....”

His great mouth, seeming to smile, opened wide as he
spoke; his voice was hoarse—not unpleasantly so, but as if
it had hardened that way after years and years of speaking—
and went on monotonously, with the effect of being able to
go on forever.... For emphasis he bent forward slightly. No
gestures. And before him, a thousand simple faces looking
up in intent adoration.

Proclamation to the Peoples and Governments
of All the Belligerent Nations

The Workers’ and Peasants’ Government, created by the revolu¬
tion of November 6th and 7th and based on the Soviets of Work¬
ers’, Soldiers’ and Peasants’ Deputies, proposes to all the belliger¬
ent peoples and to their Governments to begin immediately nego¬
tiations for a just and democratic peace.

The Government means by a just and democratic peace, which is
desired by the immense majority of the workers and the labouring
classes, exhausted and depleted by the war—that peace which the
Russian workers and peasants, after having struck down the Tsarist
monarchy, have not ceased to demand categorically—immediate
peace without annexations (that is to say, without conquest of for¬
eign territory, without forcible annexation of other nationalities),
and without indemnities.

The Government of Russia proposes to all the belligerent peoples
immediately to conclude such a peace, by showing themselves will¬
ing to enter upon the decisive steps of negotiations aiming at such
a peace, at once, without the slightest delay, before the definitive
ratification of all the conditions of such a peace by the authorised
assemblies of the people of all countries and of all nationalities.

By annexation or conquest of foreign territory, the Government
means—conformably to the conception of democratic rights in gen¬
eral, and the rights of the working-class in particular—all union
to a great and strong State of a small or weak nationality, with¬
out the voluntary, clear and precise expression of its consent and
desire; whatever be the moment when such an annexation by force
was accomplished, whatever be the degree of civilisation of the na¬
tion annexed by force or maintained outside the frontiers of an¬
other State, no matter if that nation be in Europe or in the far
countries across the sea.

If any nation is retained by force within the limits of another
State; if, in spite of the desire expressed by it (it matters litde if
that desire be expressed by the press, by popular meetings, deci¬
sions of political parties, or by disorders and riots against national
oppression), that nation is not given the right of deciding by free
vote—without the slightest constraint, after the complete departure
of the armed forces of the nation which has annexed it or wishes to
annex it or is stronger in general—the form of its national and poli¬
tical organisation, such a union constitutes an annexation—that is
to say, conquest and an act of violence.

To continue this war in order to permit the strong and rich na¬
tions to divide among themselves the weak and conquered nationali-


118







ties is considered by the Government the greatest possible crime
against humanity; and the Government solemnly proclaims its deci¬
sion to sign a treaty of peace which will put an end to this war
upon the above conditions, equally fair for all nationalities with¬
out exception.

The Government abolishes secret diplomacy, expressing before
the whole country its firm decision to conduct all the negotiations
in the light of day before the people, and will proceed immediately
to the full publication of all secret treaties confirmed or conclud¬
ed bv the Government of land-owners and capitalists, from March
until November 7th, 1917. All the clauses of the secret treaties
which, as occur in a majority of cases, have for their object to pro¬
cure advantages and privileges for Russian capitalists, to maintain
or augment the annexation of the Russian imperialists, are de¬
nounced by the Government immediately and without discussion.

In proposing to all Governments and all peoples to engage in
public negotiations for peace, the Government declares itself ready
to carry on these negotiations by telegraph, by post, or by pour¬
parlers between the representatives of the different countries, or
at a conference of these representatives. To facilitate those pour¬
parlers, the Government appoints its authorised representatives in
the neutral countries.

The Government proposes to all the governments and to the peo¬
ples of all the belligerent countries to conclude an immediate armi¬
stice, at the same time suggesting that the armistice ought to last
three months, during which time it is perfectly possible, not only
to hold the necessary pourparlers between the representatives of all
the nations and nationalities without exception drawn into the war
or forced to take part in it, but also to convoke authorised assem¬
blies of representatives of the people of all countries, for the pur¬
pose of the definite acceptance of the conditions of peace.

In addressing this offer of peace to the Governments and to the
peoples of all the belligerent countries, the Provisional Workers’
and Peasants’ Government of Russia addresses equally and in par¬
ticular the conscious workers of the three nations most devoted to
humanity and the three most important nations among those taking
part in the present war—England, France, and Germany. The
workers of these countries have rendered the greatest services to
the cause of progress and of Socialism. The splendid examples of
the Chartist movement in England, the series of revolutions, of
world-wide historical significance, accomplished by the French pro¬
letariat—and finally, in Germany, the historic struggle against the
Laws of Exception, an example for the workers of the whole world
of prolonged and stubborn action, and the creation of the formid¬
able organisations of German proletarians—all these models of pro¬
letarian heroism, these monuments of history, are for us a sure
guarantee that the workers of these countries will understand the
duty imposed upon them to liberate humanity from the horrors
and consequences of war; and that these workers, by decisive, ener¬
getic and continued action, will help us to bring to a successful con¬
clusion the cause of peace—and at the same time, the cause of the
liberation of the exploited working masses from all slavery and all
exploitation.


119





When the grave thunder of applause had died away, Le¬
nin spoke again:

“We propose to the Congress to ratify this declaration.
We address ourselves to the Governments as well as to the
peoples, for a declaration which would be addressed only to
the peoples of the belligerent countries might delay the con¬
clusion of peace. The conditions of peace, drawn up during
the armistice, will be ratified by the Constituent Assembly.
In fixing the duration of the armistice at three months, we
desire to give to the peoples as long a rest as possible af¬
ter this bloody extermination, and ample time for them to
elect their representatives. This proposal of peace will meet
with resistance on the part of the imperialist governments—
we don’t fool ourselves on that score. But we hope that revo¬
lution will soon break out in all the belligerent countries;
that is why we address ourselves especially to the workers of
France, England and Germany....

“The revolution of November 6th and 7th,” he ended,
“has opened the era of the Social Revolution.... The labour
movement, in the name of peace and Socialism, shall win,
and fulfil its destiny....”

There was something quiet and powerful in all this,
which stirred the souls of men. It was understandable why
people believed when Lenin spoke....

By crowd vote it was quickly decided that only represen¬
tatives of political factions should be allowed to speak on
the motion and that speakers should be limited to fifteen
minutes.

First Karelin for the Left Socialist Revolutionaries. “Our
faction had no opportunity to propose amendments to the
text of the proclamation; it is a private document of the Bol-
sheviki. But we will vote for it because we agree with its spir¬
it....”

For the Social Democrats Internationalists Kramarov, long,
stoop-shouldered and near-sighted—destined to achieve
some notoriety as the Clown of the Opposition. Only a Gov¬
ernment composed of all the Socialist parties, he said, could
possess the authority to take such important action. If a So¬
cialist coalition were formed, his faction would support the
entire programme; if not, only part of it. As for the pro¬
clamation, the Internationalists were in thorough accord with
its main points....

Then one after another, amid rising enthusiasm; Ukrain¬
ian Social Democracy, support; Lithuanian Social Democracy,
support; Populist Socialists, support; Polish Social Democra¬
cy, support; Polish Socialists, support—but would prefer a
Socialist coalition; Lettish Social Democracy, support....
Something was kindled in these men. One spoke of the


120







“coming World-Revolution, of which we are the advance-
guard”; another of “the new age of brotherhood, when all
the peoples will become one great family....” An individual
member claimed the floor. “There is contradiction here,” he
said. “First you offer peace without annexations and in¬
demnities, and then you say you will consider all peace of¬
fers. To consider means to accept....”

Lenin was on his feet. “We want a just peace, but we are
not afraid of a revolutionary war.... Probably the imperial¬
ist Governments will not answer our appeal—but we shall not
issue an ultimatum to which it will be easy to say no.... If
the German proletariat realises that we are ready to consider
all offers of peace, that will perhaps be the last drop which
overflows the bowl—revolution will break out in Germany....

“We consent to examine all conditions of peace, but that
doesn’t mean that we shall accept them.... For some of our
terms we shall fight to the end—but possibly for others we
will find it impossible to continue the war.... Above all, we
want to finish the war....”

It was exactly 10:35 when Kameniev asked all in favour
of the proclamation to hold up their cards. One delegate
dared to raise his hand against, but the sudden sharp out¬
burst around him brought it swiftly down.... Unanimous.

Suddenly, by common impulse, we found ourselves on our
feet, mumbling together into the smooth lifting unison of the
Internationale. A grizzled old soldier was sobbing like a child.
Alexandra Kollontai rapidly winked the tears back. The im¬
mense sound rolled through the hall, burst windows and
doors and seared into the quiet sky. “The war is ended! The
war is ended!” said a young workman near me, his face shin¬
ing. And when it was over, as we stood there in a kind of
awkward hush, some one in the back of the room shouted,
“Comrades! Let us remember those who have died for liber¬
ty!” So we began to sing the Funeral March, that slow, mel¬
ancholy and yet triumphant chant, so Russian and so mov¬
ing. The Internationale is an alien air, after all. The Funeral
March seemed the very soul of those dark masses whose del¬
egates sat in this hall, building from their obscure visions
a new Russia—and perhaps more.

You fell in the fatal fight,

For the liberty of the people, for the honour of the

people...

You gave up your lives and everything dear to you,

You suffered in horrible prisons,

You went to exile in chains...

121









Without a word you carried your chains because

you could not ignore your suffering brothers.

Because you believed that justice is stronger than

the sword...

The time will come when your surrendered life will

count.

That time is near; when tyranny falls the people

will rise, great and free!

Farewell, brothers, you chose a noble path,

You are followed by the new and fresh army ready

to die and to suffer...

Farewell, brothers, you chose a noble path.

At your grave we swear to fight, to work for free¬
dom and the people’s happiness...

For this did they lie there, the martyrs of March, in their
cold Brotherhood Grave on Mars Field; for this thousands
and tens of thousands had died in the prisons, in exile, in
Siberian mines. It had not come as they expected it would
come, nor as the intelligentzia desired it; but it had come—
rough, strong, impatient of formulas, contemptuous of senti¬
mentalism; real....

Lenin was reading the Decree on Land:

(1.) All private ownership of land is abolished immediately with¬
out compensation.

(2.) All land-owners’ estates, and all lands belonging to the
Crown, to monasteries, church lands with all their live stock and
inventoried property, buildings and all appurtenances, are trans¬
ferred to the disposition of the township Land Committees and the
district Soviets of Peasants’ Deputies until the Constituent As¬
sembly meets.

(3.) Any damage whatever done to the confiscated property which
from now on belongs to the whole People, is regarded as a serious
crime, punishable by the revolutionary tribunals. The district So¬
viets of Peasants’ Deputies shall take all necessary measures for the
observance of the strictest order during the taking over of the land-
owners’ estates, for the determination of the dimensions of the plots
of land and which of them are subject to confiscation, for the draw¬
ing up of an inventory of the entire confiscated property, and for
the strictest revolutionary protection of all the farming property on
the land, with all buildings, implements, cattle, supplies of products,
etc., passing into the hands of the People.

(4.) For guidance during the realisation of the great land re¬
forms until their final resolution by the Constituent Assembly, shall
serve the following peasant nakaz (instructions)«3», drawn up on the
basis of 242 local peasant nakazi by the editorial board of the “ Izvies-
tia of the All Russian Soviet of Peasants’ Deputies,” and published in
No. 88 of said “ Izviestia" (Petrograd, No. 88, August 19th, 1917).

The lands of peasants and of Cossacks serving in the Army shall
not be confiscated.


122












“This is not,” explained Lenin, “the project of former
Minister Tchernov, who spoke of ‘erecting a frame-work’
and tried to realise reforms from above. From below, on the
spot, will be decided the questions of division of the land.
The amount of land received by each peasant will vary ac¬
cording to the locality....

“Lender the Provisional Government, the pomieshtchiki
flatly refused to obey the orders of the Land Committees—
those Land Committees projected by Lvov, brought into ex¬
istence by Shingariov, and administered by Kerensky!”

Before the debates could begin a man forced his way vio¬
lently through the crowd in the aisle and climbed upon the
platform. It was Pianikh, member of the Executive Commit¬
tee of the Peasants’ Soviets, and he was mad clean through.

“The Executive Committee of the All-Russian Soviet of
Peasants’ Deputies protests against the arrest of our com¬
rades, the Ministers Salazkin and Maslov!” he flung harshly in
the faces of the crowd. “We demand their instant release!
They are now in Peter-Paul fortress. We must have immedi¬
ate action! There is not a moment to lose!”

Another followed him, a soldier with disordered beard and
flaming eyes. “You sit here and talk about giving the land
to the peasants, and you commit an act of tyrants and usurp¬
ers against the peasants’ chosen representatives! I tell
you—” he raised his fist, “if one hair of their heads is
harmed, you’ll have a revolt on your hands!” The crowd stir¬
red confusedly.

Then up rose Trotzky, calm and venomous, conscious of
power, greeted with a roar. “Yesterday the Military Revo¬
lutionary Committee decided to release the Socialist Revolu¬
tionary and Menshevik Ministers, Maslov, Salazkin, Gvozdyov
and Maliantovitch—on principle. That they are still in Peter-
Paul is only because we have had so much to do.... They will,
however, be detained at their homes under arrest until we
have investigated their complicity in the treacherous acts of
Kerensky during the Kornilov affair!”

“Never,” shouted Pianikh, “in any revolution have such
things been seen as go on here!”

“You are mistaken,” responded Trotzky. “Such things
have been seen even in this revolution. Hundreds of our
comrades were arrested in the July days.... When Comrade
Kollontai was released from prison by the doctor’s orders,
Avksentiev placed at her door two former agents of the
Tsar’s secret police!” The peasants withdrew, muttering, fol¬
lowed by ironical hoots.

The representative of the Left Socialist Revolutionaries
spoke on the Land Decree. While agreeing in principle, his
faction could not vote on the question until after discussion.


123






The Peasants’ Soviets should be consulted....

The Mensheviki Internationalists, too, insisted on a party
caucus.

Then the leader of the Maximalists, the Anarchist wing of
the peasants: “We must do honour to a political party which
puts such an act into effect the first day, without jawing
about it!”

A typical peasant was in the tribune, long hair, boots and
sheep-skin coat, bowing to all corners of the hall. “I wish
you well, comrades and citizens,” he said. “There are some
Cadets walking around outside. You arrested our Socialist
peasants—why not arrest them?”

This was the signal for a debate of excited peasants. It was
precisely like the debate of soldiers of the night before. Here
were the real proletarians of the land....

“Those members of our Executive Committee, Avksentiev
and the rest, whom we thought were the peasants’ protec¬
tors—they are only Cadets too! Arrest them! Arrest them!”

Another, “Who are these Pianikhs, these Avksentievs?
They are not peasants at all! They only wag their tails!”

How the crowd rose to them, recognising brothers!

The Left Socialist Revolutionaries proposed a half-hour
intermission. As the delegates streamed out, Lenin stood up
in his place.

“We must not lose time, comrades! News all-important to
Russia must be on the press to-morrow morning. No delay!”

And above the hot discussion, argument, shuffling of feet
could be heard the voice of an emissary of the Military Rev¬
olutionary Committee, crying, “Fifteen agitators wanted in
room 17 at once! To go to the front!”...

It was almost two hours and a half later that the delega¬
tes came straggling back, the presidium mounted the plat¬
form, and the session recommenced by the reading of tele¬
grams from regiment after regiment, announcing their adhe¬
sion to the Military Revolutionary Committee.

In leisurely manner the meeting gathered momentum. A
delegate from the Russian troops on the Macedonian front
spoke bitterly of their situation. “We suffer there more
from the friendship of our ‘Allies’ than from the enemy,”
he said. Representatives of the Tenth and Twelfth Armies,
just arrived in hot haste, reported, “We support you with
all our strength!” A peasant-soldier protested against the
release of “the traitor Socialists, Maslov and Salazkin”; as
for the Executive Committee of the Peasants’ Soviets, it
should be arrested en masse! Here was real revolutionary
talk.... A deputy from the Russian Army in Persia declared
he was instructed to demand all power to the Soviets.... A
Ukrainian officer, speaking in his native tongue: “There is


124






no nationalism in this crisis.... Da zdravstvuyet the proleta¬
rian dictatorship of all lands!” Such a deluge of high and
hot thoughts that surely Russia would never again be
dumb!

Kameniev remarked that the anti-Bolshevik forces were
trying to stir up disorders everywhere, and read an appeal
of the Congress to all the Soviets of Russia:

The All-Russian Congress of Soviets of Workers’ and Soldiers’
Deputies, including some Peasants’ Deputies, calls upon the local
Soviets to take immediate energetic measures to oppose all counter¬
revolutionary anti-Jewish action and all pogroms, whatever they may
be. The honour of the Workers’, Peasants' and Soldiers’ Revolution
demands that no pogrom be tolerated.

The Red Guard of Petrograd, the revolutionary garrison and the
sailors have maintained complete order in the capital.

Workers, soldiers and peasants, you should follow everywhere
the example of the workers and soldiers of Petrograd.

Comrade soldiers and Cossacks, on us falls the duty of assuring
real revolutionary order.

All revolutionary Russia and the entire world have their eyes on
us....


At two o’clock the Land Decree was put to vote, with only
one against and the peasant delegates wild with joy.... So
plunged the Bolsheviki ahead, irresistible, overriding hesita¬
tion and opposition—the only people in Russia who had a
definite programme of action while the others talked for
eight long months.

Now arose a soldier, gaunt, ragged and eloquent, to pro¬
test against the clause of the nakaz 1 tending to deprive mili¬
tary deserters from a share in village land allotments. Bawled
at and hissed at first, his simple, moving speech finally made
silence. “Forced against his will into the butchery of the
trenches,” he cried, “which you yourselves, in the Peace de¬
cree, have voted senseless as well as horrible, he greeted the
Revolution with hope of peace and freedom. Peace? The
Government of Kerensky forced him again to go forward in¬
to Galicia to slaughter and be slaughtered; to his pleas for
peace, Terestchenko simply laughed.... Freedom? Under Ke¬
rensky he found his Committees suppressed, his newspapers
cut off, his party speakers put in prison.... At home in his
village, the landlords were defying his Land Committees,
jailing his comrades.... In Petrograd the bourgeoisie, in al¬
liance with the Germans, were sabotaging the food and am¬
munition for the Army.... He was without boots, or clothes....


'The reference is to the Nakaz (Instructions) passed by the Congress simul¬
taneously with the Land Decree.— Ed.


125











Who forced him to desert? The Government of Kerensky,
which you have overthrown!” At the end there was ap¬
plause.

But another soldier hotly denounced it: “The Govern¬
ment of Kerensky is not a screen behind which can be hid¬
den dirty work like desertion! Deserters are scoundrels,
who run away home and leave their comrades to die in the
trenches alone! Every deserter is a traitor, and should be
punished....” Uproar, shouts of “Dovolnol Teeschel ” Ka-
meniev hastily proposed to leave the matter to the Govern¬
ment for decision.«4»

At 2.30 A.M. fell a tense hush. Kameniev was reading the
decree of the Constitution of Power:

Until the meeting of the Constituent Assembly, a provisional
Workers’ and Peasants’ Government is formed, which shall be
named the Council of People’s Commissars.«5»

The administration of the different branches of state activity
shall be intrusted to commissions, whose composition shall be reg¬
ulated to ensure the carrying out of the programme of the Con¬
gress, in close union with the mass-organisation of working-men,
working-women, sailors, soldiers, peasants and clerical employees.
The governmental power is vested in a collegium made up of the
chairmen of these commissions, that is to say, the Council of Peo¬
ple’s Commissars.

Control over the activities of the People’s Commissars, and the
right to replace them, shall belong to the All-Russian Congress of
Soviets of Workers’, Peasants’ and Soldiers’ Deputies, and its Cen¬
tral Executive Committee.

Still silence; as he read the list of Commissars, bursts of
applause after each name, Lenin and Trotzky’s especially.

President of the Council : Vladimir Ulianov (Lenin)

Interior. A. I. Rykov
Agriculture: V. P. Miliutin
Labour. A. G. Shliapnikov

Military and Naval Affairs —a committee composed of
V. A. Avseenko (Antonov), N. V. Krylenko, and P. E. Dy¬
benko.

Commerce and Industry: V. P. Nogin
Popular Education: A. V. Lunatcharsky
Finance: I. I. Skvortsov (Stepanov)

Foreign Affairs: L. D. Bronstein (Trotzky)

Justice: G. I. Oppokov (Lomov)

Supplies: I. A. Teodorovitch

Post and Telegraph: N. P. Avilov (Gliebov)

Chairman for Nationalities: I. V. Djougashvili (Stalin)
Railroads: To be filled later.


126






There were bayonets at the edges of the room, bayonets
pricking up among the delegates; the Military Revolutionary
Committee was arming everybody, Bolshevism was arming
for the decisive battle with Kerensky, the sound of whose
trumpets came up the south-west wind.... In the meanwhile
nobody went home; on the contrary hundreds of newcomers
filtered in, filling the great room solid with stern-faced sol¬
diers and workmen who stood for hours and hours, indefati-
gably intent. The air was thick with cigarette smoke, and hu¬
man breathing, and the smell of coarse clothes and sweat.

Avilov of the staff of Novaya Zhizn was speaking in the
name of the Social Democrat Internationalists and the rem¬
nant of the Mensheviki Internationalists; Avilov, with his
young, intelligent face, looking out of place in his smart
frockcoat.

“We must ask ourselves where we are going.... The ease
with which the Coalition Government was upset cannot be
explained by the strength of the left wing of the democra¬
cy, but only by the incapacity of the Government to give the
people peace and bread. And the left wing cannot maintain
itself in power unless it can solve these questions....

“Can it give bread to the people? Grain is scarce. The ma¬
jority of the peasants will not be with you, for you cannot
give them the machinery they need. Fuel and other primary
necessities are almost impossible to procure....

“As for peace, that will be even more difficult. The Allies
refused to talk with Skobeliev. They will never accept the
proposition of a peace conference from you. You will not be
recognised either in London and Paris, or in Berlin....

“You cannot count on the effective help of the proletariat
of the Allied countries, because in most countries it is very
far from the revolutionary struggle; remember, the Allied
democracy was unable even to convoke the Stockholm Con¬
ference. Concerning the German Social Democrats, I have
just talked with Comrade Goldenberg, one of our delegates
to Stockholm; he was told by the representatives of the Ex¬
treme Left that revolution in Germany was impossible during
the war....” Here interruptions began to come thick and fast,
but Avilov kept on.

“The isolation of Russia will fatally result either in the de¬
feat of the Russian Army by the Germans, and the patching
up of a peace between the Austro-German coalition and the
Franco-British coalition at the expense of Russia —or in a
separate peace with Germany.

“I have just learned that the Allied ambassadors are pre¬
paring to leave, and that Committees for Salvation of Coun¬
try and Revolution are forming in all the cities of Russia....

“No one party can conquer these enormous difficulties.


127







The majority of the people, supporting a government of
Socialist coalition, can alone accomplish the Revolution....”

He then read the resolution of the two factions:

Recognising that for the salvation of the conquests of the Revo¬
lution it is indispensable immediately to constitute a government
based on the revolutionary democracy organised in the Soviets of
Workers’, Soldiers’ and Peasants’ Deputies, recognising moreover
that the task of this government is the quickest possible attain¬
ment of peace, the transfer of the land into the hands of the agrar¬
ian committees, the organisation of control over industrial pro¬
duction, and the convocation of the Constituent Assembly on the
date decided, the Congress appoints an executive committee to con¬
stitute such a government after an agreement with the groups of
the democracy which are taking part in the Congress.

In spite of the revolutionary exaltation of the triumphant
crowd, Avilov’s cool tolerant reasoning had shaken them. To¬
ward the end, the cries and hisses died away, and when he
finished there was even some clapping.

Karelin followed him—also young, fearless, whose sin¬
cerity no one doubted—for the Left Socialist Revolutionaries,
the party of Maria Spiridonova, the party which almost alone
followed the Bolsheviki, and which represented the revolu¬
tionary peasants. 1

“Our party has refused to enter the Council of People’s
Commissars because we do not wish forever to separate our¬
selves from the part of the revolutionary army which left the
Congress, a separation which would make it impossible for
us to serve as intermediaries between the Bolsheviki and the
other groups of the democracy.... And that is our principal
duty at this moment. We cannot sustain any government ex¬
cept a government of Socialist coalition....

”We protest, moreover, against the tyrannical conduct of
the Bolsheviki. Our Commissars have been driven from their
posts. Our only organ, Znamia Truda (Banner of Labour), was
forbidden to appear yesterday....

“The Central Duma is forming a powerful Committee for
Salvation of Country and Revolution, to fight you. Already
you are isolated, and your Government is without the sup¬
port of a single other democratic group....”

And now Trotzky stood upon the raised tribune, confident
and dominating, with that sarcastic expression about his
mouth which was almost a sneer. He spoke, in a ringing
voice, and the great crowd rose to him.

“These considerations on the dangers of isolation of our


■Only a part of the revolutionary peasants followed the Left Socialist
Revolutionaries.— Ed.


128








party are not new. On the eve of insurrection our fatal de¬
feat was also predicted. Everybody was against us; only a fac¬
tion of the Socialist Revolutionaries of the left was with us
in the Military Revolutionary Committee. How is it that we
were able to overturn the Government almost without blood¬
shed?... That fact is the most striking proof that we were not
isolated. In reality the Provisional Government was isolated;
the democratic parties which march against us were isolated,
are isolated, and forever cut off from the proletariat!

“They speak of the necessity for a coalition. There is only
one coalition possible—the coalition of the workers, soldiers
and poorest peasants; and it is our party’s honour to have
realised that coalition.... What sort of coalition did Avilov
mean? A coalition with those who supported the Government
of Treason to the People? Coalition doesn’t always add to
strength. For example, could we have organised the insurrec¬
tion with Dan and Avksentiev in our ranks?” Roars of laugh¬
ter.

“Avksentiev gave little bread. Will a coalition with the obo-
rontsi furnish more? Between the peasants and Avksentiev,
who ordered the arrest of the Land Committees, we choose
the peasants! Our Revolution will remain the classic revolu¬
tion of history....

“They accuse us of repelling an agreement with the other
democratic parties. But is it we who are to blame? Or must
we, as Karelin put it, blame it on a ‘misunderstanding’? No,
comrades. When a party in full tide of revolution, still
wreathed in powder-smoke, comes to say, ‘Here is the Pow¬
er—take it!’—and when those to whom it is offered go over
to the enemy, that is not a misunderstanding ... that is a de¬
claration of pitiless war. And it isn’t we who have declared
war....

“Avilov menaces us with failure of our peace efforts—if
we remain ‘isolated.’ I repeat, I don’t see how a coalition
with Skobeliev, or even Terestchenko, can help us to get
peace! Avilov tries to frighten us by the threat of a peace
at our expense. And I answer that in any case, if Europe
continues to be ruled by the imperialist bourgeoisie, revo¬
lutionary Russia will inevitably be lost....

“There are only two alternatives; either the Russian Rev¬
olution will create a revolutionary movement in Europe,
or the European powers will destroy the Russian Revolu¬
tion!”

They greeted him with an immense crusading acclaim,
kindling to the daring of it, with the thought of champion¬
ing mankind. And from that moment there was something
conscious and decided about the insurrectionary masses, in
all their actions, which never left them.


9 253


129








But on the other side, too, battle was taking form. Kame-
niev recognised a delegate from the Union of Railway Work¬
ers, a hard-faced, stocky man with an attitude of implacable
hostility. He threw a bombshell.

“In the name of the strongest organisation in Russia I de¬
mand the right to speak, and I say to you: the Vikzhel 1
charges me to make known the decision of the Union con¬
cerning the constitution of Power. The Central Committee
refuses absolutely to support the Bolsheviki if they persist
in isolating themselves from the whole democracy of Russia!”
Immense tumult all over the hall.

“In 1905, and in the Kornilov days, the Railway Workers
were the best defenders of the Revolution. But you did not
invite us to your Congress—” Cries, “It was the old
Tsay-ee-kah which did not invite you!” The orator paid no
attention. “We do not recognise the legality of this Con¬
gress; since the departure of the Mensheviki and Socialist
Revolutionaries there is not a legal quorum.... The Union
supports the old Tsay-ee-kah, and declares that the Congress
has no right to elect a new Committee....

“The Power should be a Socialist and revolutionary Power,
responsible before the authorised organs of the entire revo¬
lutionary democracy. Until the constitution of such a power,
the Union of Railway Workers, which refuses to transport
counter-revolutionary troops to Petrograd, at the same time
forbids the execution of any order whatever without the con¬
sent of the Vikzhel. The Vikzhel also takes into its hands the
entire administration of the railroads of Russia.”

At the end he could hardly be heard for the furious storm
of abuse which beat upon him. But it was a heavy blow—that
could be seen in the concern on the faces of the presidium.
Kameniev, however, merely answered that there could be no
doubt of the legality of the Congress, as even the quorum
established by the old Tsay-ee-kah was exceeded—in spite of
the secession of the Mensheviki and Socialist Revolution¬
aries....

Then came the vote on the Constitution of Power, which
carried the Council of People’s Commissars into office by an
enormous majority....

The election of the new Tsay-ee-kah, the new parliament
of the Russian Republic, took barely fifteen minutes. Tro-
tzky announced its composition: 100 members, of which 70
Bolsheviki.... As for the peasants, and the seceding fac¬
tions, places were to be reserved for them. “We welcome
into the Government all parties and groups which will


1 Vikzhel, the All-Russia Executive Committee of the Union of Railway
Workers and Employees. — Ed.


130














adopt our programme,” ended Trotzky.

And thereupon the Second All-Russian Congress of Soviets
was dissolved, so that the members might hurry to their
homes in the four corners of Russia and tell of the great
happenings....

It was almost seven when we woke the sleeping conductors
and motor-men of the street-cars which the Street-Railway
Workers’ Union always kept waiting at Smolny to take the
Soviet delegates to their homes. In the crowded car there
was less happy hilarity than the night before, I thought.
Many looked anxious; perhaps they were saying to them¬
selves, “Now we are masters, how can we do our will?”

At our apartment-house we were held up in the dark by
an armed patrol of citizens and carefully examined. The
Duma’s proclamation was doing its work....

The landlady heard us come in, and stumbled out in a
pink silk wrapper.

“The House Committee has again asked that you take
your turn on guard-duty with the rest of the men,” she said.

“What’s the reason for this guard-duty?”

“To protect the house and the women and children.”

“Who from?”

“Robbers and murderers.”

“But suppose there came a Commissar from the Military
Revolutionary Committee to search for arms?”

“Oh, that’s what they’ll say they are.... And besides, what’s
the difference?”

I solemnly affirmed that the Consul had forbidden all
American citizens to carry arms—especially in the neighbour¬
hood of the Russian intelligentzia....


9 *




Chapter VI

THE COMMITTEE FOR SALVATION


Friday, November 9th....

Novotcherkask, November 8th.

In view of the revolt of the Bolsheviki, and their attempt to
depose the Provisional Government and to seize the power in Pet-
rograd ... the Cossack Government declares that it considers these
acts criminal and absolutely inadmissible. In consequence, the Cos¬
sacks will lend all their support to the Provisional Government,
which is a government of coalition. Because of these circumstances,
and until the return of the Provisional Government to power, and
the restoration of order in Russia, I take upon myself, beginning
November 7th, all the power in that which concerns the region of
the Don.

Signed: Ataman Kaledin
President of the Government
of the Cossack Troops.

Prikaz of the Minister-President Kerensky, dated at Gat¬
china:

I, Minister-President of the Provisional Government, and
Supreme Commander of all the armed forces of the Russian
Republic, declare that I am at the head of regiments from
the front who have remained faithful to the fatherland.

I order all the troops of the Military District of Petrograd, who
through mistake or folly have answered the appeal of the traitors
to the country and the Revolution, to return to their duty without
delay.

This order shall be read in all regiments, battalions and squad¬
rons.

Signed: Minister-President of the Provisional

Government and Supreme Commander
A. F. Kerensky

Telegram from Kerensky to the General in Command of
the Northern Front:

The town of Gatchina has been taken by the loyal regiments
without bloodshed. Detachments of Cronstadt sailors, and of the
Semionovsky and Ismailovsky regiments, gave up their arms with¬
out resistance and joined the Government troops.


132







I order all the designated units to advance as quickly as possible.
The Military Revolutionary Committee has ordered its troops to
retreat....

Gatchina, about thirty kilometres south-west, had fallen
during the night. Detachments of the two regiments men¬
tioned—not the sailors—while wandering captainless in the
neighbourhood, had indeed been surrounded by Cossacks
and given up their arms; but it was not true that they had
joined the Government troops. At this very moment crowds
of them, bewildered and ashamed, were up at Smolny trying
to explain. They did not think the Cossacks were so near....
They had tried to argue with the Cossacks....

Apparently the greatest confusion prevailed along the rev¬
olutionary front. The garrisons of all the little towns south¬
ward had split hopelessly, bitterly into two factions—or three:
the high command being on the side of Kerensky, in default
of anything stronger, the majority of the rank and file with
the Soviets, and the rest unhappily wavering.

Hastily the Military Revolutionary Committee appointed to
command the defence of Petrograd an ambitious regular Ar¬
my captain, Muraviov 1 ; the same Muraviov who had organ¬
ised the Death Battalions during the summer, and had once
been heard to advise the Government that “it was too leni¬
ent with the Bolsheviki; they must be wiped out.” A man
of military mind, who admired power and audacity, perhaps
sincerely....

Beside my door when I came down in the morning were
posted two new orders of the Military Revolutionary Com¬
mittee, directing that all shops and stores should open as
usual, and that all empty rooms and apartments should be
put at the disposal of the Committee....

For thirty-six hours now the Bolsheviki had been cut off
from provincial Russia and the outside world. The railway
men and telegraphers refused to transmit their despatches,
the postmen would not handle their mail. Only the Govern¬
ment wireless at Tsarskoye Selo launched half-hourly bul¬
letins and manifestoes to the four corners of heaven: the
Commissars of Smolny raced the Commissars of the City
Duma on speeding trains half across the earth; and two aero¬
planes, laden with propaganda, fled high up toward the
front....

But the eddies of insurrection were spreading through
Russia with a swiftness surpassing any human agency. Hel¬
singfors Soviet passed resolutions of support; Kiev Bolshe¬
viki captured the arsenal and the telegraph station, only


1 Muraviov was a Lieutenant-Colonel.— Ed.


133






to be driven out by delegates to the Congress of Cossacks,
which happened to be meeting there; in Kazan, a Military
Revolutionary Committee arrested the local garrison staff
and the Commissar of the Provisional Government; from far
Krasnoyarsk, in Siberia, came news that the Soviets were in
control of the Municipal institutions; in Moscow, where the
situation was aggravated by a great strike of leather-workers
on one side, and a threat of general lock-out on the other,
the Soviets had voted overwhelmingly to support the action
of the Bolsheviki in Petrograd.... Already a Military Revolu¬
tionary Committee was functioning.

Everywhere the same thing happened. The common sol¬
diers and the industrial workers supported the Soviets by a
vast majority; the officers, yunkers and middle class general¬
ly were on the side of the Government—as were the bour¬
geois Cadets and the “moderate” Socialist parties. In all
these towns sprang up Committees for Salvation of Country
and Revolution, arming for civil war....

Vast Russia was in a state of solution. As long ago as 1905
the process had begun; the March Revolution had merely
hastened it, and giving birth to a sort of forecast of the new
order, had ended by merely perpetuating the hollow struc¬
ture of the old regime. Now, however, the Bolsheviki, in one
night, had dissipated it, as one blows away smoke. Old Rus¬
sia was no more; human society flowed molten in primal
heat, and from the tossing sea of flame was emerging the
class struggle, stark and pitiless—and the fragile, slowly-
cooling crust of new planets....

In Petrograd sixteen Ministries were on strike, led by the
Ministries of Labour and of Supplies—the only two created
by the all-Socialist 1 Government of August.

If ever men stood alone, the “handful of Bolsheviki” ap-
parendy stood alone that grey chill morning, with all storms
towering over them.«l» Back against the wall, the Military
Revolutionary Committee struck—for its life. “ De I’audace,
encore de I’audace, el toujours de I’audace.... “ 2 At five in the
morning the Red Guards entered the printing office of the
City Government, confiscated thousands of copies of the
Appeal-Protest of the Duma, and suppressed the official
Municipal organ — the Viestnik Gorodsliovo Samoupravleniya
(Bulletin of the Municipal Self-Government). All the bour¬
geois newspapers were torn from the presses, even the Golos


1 Composed of Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries. — Ed.

2 “Courage, once more courage and always courage!” The famous ex¬
clamation of Danton in his speech of September 2, 1792 in the French
Legislative Assembly on the war danger and the need to defend the revo¬
lution from invasion by the counter-revolutionary Prusso-Austrian coali¬
tion.— Ed.


134















Soldata, journal of the old Tsay-ee-kah —which, however,
changing its name to Soldatski Golos, appeared in an edition
of a hundred thousand copies, bellowing rage and defiance:

The men who began their stroke of treachery in the night, who
have suppressed the newspapers, will not keep the country in igno¬
rance long. The country will know the truth! It will appreciate you,
Messrs, the Bolsheviki! We shall see!...

As we came down the Nevsky a little after midday the
whole street before the Duma building was crowded with
people. Here and there stood Red Guards and sailors, with
bayonetted rifles, each one surrounded by about a hundred
men and women—clerks, students, shop-keepers, tchinovni-
ki — shaking their fists and bawling insults and menaces.
On the steps stood boy-scouts and officers, distributing
copies of the Soldatski Golos. A workman with a red band
around his arm and a revolver in his hand stood trembling
with rage and nervousness in the middle of a hostile throng
at the foot of the stairs, demanding the surrender of the
papers.... Nothing like this, I imagine, ever occurred in
history. On one side a handful of workmen and common sol¬
diers, with arms in their hands, representing a victorious
insurrection—and perfectly miserable; on the other a frantic
mob made up of the kind of people that crowd the sidewalks
of Fifth Avenue at noon-time, sneering, abusing, shouting,
“Traitors! Provocators! OpntchnikiV"

The doors were guarded by students and officers with
white arm-bands lettered in red, “Militia of the Committee
of Public Safety,” and half a dozen boy-scouts came and
went. Upstairs the place was all commotion. Captain Gom-
berg was coming clown the stairs. “They’re going to dis¬
solve the Duma,” he said. “The Bolshevik Commissar is with
the Mayor now.” As we reached the top Riazanov came hur¬
rying out. He had been to demand that the Duma recognise
the Council of People’s Commissars, and the Mayor had
given him a flat refusal.

In the offices a great babbling crowd, hurrying, shouting,
gesticulating—Government officials, intellectuals, journal¬
ists, foreign correspondents, French and British officers....
The City Engineer pointed to them triumphantly. “The Em¬
bassies recognise the Duma as the only power now,” he ex¬
plained. “For these Bolshevik murderers and robbers it is
only a question of hours. All Russia is rallying to us....”

In the Alexander Hall a monster meeting of the Com¬
mittee for Salvation, Fillipovsky in the chair and Skobeliev


■Savage body-guards of Ivan the Terrible, 16th century.


135








again in the tribune, reporting, to immense applause, new
adhesions to the Committee: Executive Committee of Peas¬
ants’ Soviets, old Tsay-ee-kah, Central Army Committee,
Tsentroflot, Menshevik, Socialist Revolutionary and Front
group delegates from the Congress of Soviets, Central Com¬
mittees of the Menshevik, Socialist Revolutionary, Populist
Socialist parties, “Yedinstvo” group, Peasants’ Union, Co¬
operatives, Zemstvos, Municipalities, Post and Telegraph
Unions, Vikzhel, Council of the Russian Republic, Union of
Unions,' Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Association....

“...The power of the Soviets is not a democratic power,
but a dictatorship—and not the dictatorship of the prole¬
tariat, but against the proletariat. All those who have felt or
know how to feel revolutionary enthusiasm must join now
for the defence of the Revolution....

“The problem of the day is not only to render harmless
irresponsible demagogues, but to fight against the counter¬
revolution.... If rumours are true that certain generals in
the provinces are attempting to profit by events in order to
march on Petrograd with other designs, it is only one more
proof that we must establish a solid base of democratic gov¬
ernment. Otherwise, troubles with the Right will follow
troubles from the Left....

“The garrison of Petrograd cannot remain indifferent
when citizens buying the Golos Soldata and newsboys selling
the Rabotchaya Gazeta are arrested in the streets....

“The hour of resolutions has passed.... Let those who have
no longer faith in the Revolution retire.... To establish a
united power, we must again restore the prestige of the Rev¬
olution....

“Let us swear that either the Revolution shall be saved or
we shall perish!”

The hall rose, cheering, with kindling eyes. There was not
a single proletarian anywhere in sight....

Then Weinstein:

“We must remain calm, and not act until public opinion
is firmly grouped in support of the Committee for Salva¬
tion—then we can pass from the defensive to action!”

The Vikzhel representative announced that his organisa¬
tion was taking the initiative in forming the new Govern¬
ment, and its delegates were now discussing the matter with
Smolny.... Followed a hot discussion: were the Bolsheviki
to be admitted to the new Government? Martov pleaded for
their admission; after all, he said, they represented an im¬
portant political party. Opinions were very much divided
upon this, the right wing Mensheviki and Socialist Revolu-


1 See Notes and Explanations.


136














tionaries, as well as the Populist Socialists, the Co-opera¬
tives and the bourgeois elements being bitterly against....

“They have betrayed Russia,” one speaker said. “They
have started civil war and opened the front to the Germans.
The Bolsheviki must be mercilessly crushed....”

Skobeliev was in favour of excluding both the Bolsheviki
and the Cadets.

We got into conversation with a young Socialist Revolu¬
tionary, who had walked out of the Democratic Conference
together with the Bolsheviki, that night when Tseretelli and
the “compromisers” forced Coalition upon the democracy
of Russia.

“You here?” I asked him.

His eyes flashed fire. “Yes!” he cried. “I left the Congress
with my party Wednesday night. I have not risked my life
for twenty years and more to submit now to the tyranny of
the Dark People. Their methods are intolerable. But they
have not counted on the peasants.... When the peasants
begin to act, then it is a question of minutes before they
are done for.”

“But the peasants—will they act? Doesn’t the Land decree
settle the peasants? What more do they want?”

“Ah, the Land decree!” he said furiously. “Yes, do you
know what that Land decree is? It is our decree—it is the So¬
cialist Revolutionary programme, intact! My party framed
that policy, after the most careful compilation of the wishes
of the peasants themselves. It is an outrage....”

“But if it is your own policy, why do you object? If it is
the peasants’ wishes, why will they oppose it?”

“You don’t understand! Don’t you see that the peasants
will immediately realise that it is all a trick—that these usurp¬
ers have stolen the Socialist Revolutionary programme?”

I asked if it were true that Kaledin was marching north.

He nodded, and rubbed his hands with a sort of bitter
satisfaction. “Yes. Now you see what these Bolsheviki have
done. They have raised the counter-revolution against us.
The Revolution is lost. The Revolution is lost.”

“But won’t you defend the Revolution?”

“Of course we will defend it—to the last drop of our
blood. But we won’t co-operate with the Bolsheviki in any
way....”

“But if Kaledin comes to Petrograd, and the Bolsheviki
defend the city. Won’t you join with them?”

“Of course not. We will defend the city also, but we won’t
support the Bolsheviki. Kaledin is the enemy of the Revolu¬
tion, but the Bolsheviki are equally enemies of the Revolu¬
tion.”

“Which do you prefer—Kaledin or the Bolsheviki?”


137













“It is not a question to be discussed!” he burst out im¬
patiently. “I tell you, the Revolution is lost. And it is the
Bolsheviki who are to blame. But listen—why should we talk
of such things? Kerensky is coming.... Day after to-morrow
we shall pass to the offensive.... Already Smolny has sent
delegates inviting us to form a new Government. But we
have them now—they are absolutely impotent.... We shall
not co-operate....”

Outside there was a shot. We ran to the windows. A Red
Guard, finally exasperated by the taunts of the crowd, had
shot into it, wounding a young girl in the arm. We could
see her being lifted into a cab, surrounded by an excited
throng, the clamour of whose voices floated up to us. As
we looked, suddenly an armoured automobile appeared
around the corner of the Mikhailovsky, its guns slung this
way and that. Immediately the crowd began to run, as Pet-
rograd crowds do, falling down and lying still in the street,
piled in the gutters, heaped up behind telephone-poles. The
car lumbered up to the steps of the Duma and a man stuck
his head out of the turret, demanding the surrender of the
Soldatski Golos. The boy-scouts jeered and scuttled into the
building. After a moment the automobile wheeled undecid¬
edly around and went off up the Nevsky, while some hun¬
dreds of men and women picked themselves up and began to
dust their clothes....

Inside was a prodigious running-about of people with
armfuls of Soldatski Golos, looking for places to hide them....

A journalist came running into the room, waving a paper.

“Here’s a proclamation from Krasnov!” he cried. Every¬
body crowded around. “Get it printed—get it printed quick,
and around to the barracks!”

By the order of the Supreme Commander I am appointed com¬
mandant of the troops concentrated under Petrograd.

Citizens, soldiers, valorous Cossacks of the Don, of the Kuban,
of the Transbaikal, of the Amur, of the Yenissei, to all you who
have remained faithful to your oath I appeal; to you who have
sworn to guard inviolable your oath of Cossack—I call upon you to
save Petrograd from anarchy, from famine, from tyranny, and to
save Russia from the indelible shame to which a handful of ig¬
norant men, bought by the gold of Wilhelm, are trying to sub¬
mit her.

The Provisional Government, to which you swore fidelity in the
great days of March, is not overthrown, but by violence expelled
from the edifice in which it held its meetings. However the Gov¬
ernment, with the help of the Front armies, faithful to their duty,
with the help of the Council of Cossacks, which has united under
its command all the Cossacks and which, strong with the morale
which reigns in its ranks, and acting in accordance with the will
of the Russian people, has sworn to serve the country as its an-


138









cestors served it in the Troublous Times of 1612, when the Cos¬
sacks of the Don delivered Moscow, menaced by the Swedes, the
Poles, and the Lithuanians. /Your Government still exists..../ 1

The active army considers these criminals with horror and con¬
tempt. Their acts of vandalism and pillage, their crimes, the Ger¬
man mentality with which they regard Russia—stricken down but
not yet surrendered—have alienated from them the entire people.

Citizens, soldiers, valorous Cossacks of the garrison of Petro-
grad; send me your delegates so that I may know who are traitors
to their country and who are not, that there may be avoided an
effusion of innocent blood.

Almost the same moment word ran from group to group
that the building was surrounded by Red Guards. An officer
strode in, a red band around his arm, demanding the
Mayor. A few minutes later he left and old Schreider came
out of his office, red and pale by turns.

“A special meeting of the Duma!” he cried. “Immedi¬
ately!”

In the big hall proceedings were halted. “All members of
the Duma for a special meeting!”

“What’s the matter?”

“I don’t know—going to arrest us—going to dissolve the
Duma—arresting members at the door—” so ran the excited
comments.

In the Nicolai Hall there was barely room to stand. The
Mayor announced that troops were stationed at all the doors,
prohibiting all exit and entrance, and that a Commissar had
threatened arrest and the dispersal of the Municipal Duma.
A flood of impassioned speeches from members, and even
from the galleries, responded. The freely-elected City Gov¬
ernment could not be dissolved by any power; the Mayor’s
person and that of all the members were inviolable; the
tyrants, the provocators, the German agents should never be
recognised; as for these threats to dissolve us, let them try—
only over our dead bodies shall they seize this chamber,
where like the Roman senators of old we await with dignity
the coming of the Goths....

Resolution, to inform the Dumas and Zemstvos of all Rus¬
sia by telegraph. Resoludon, that it was impossible for the
Mayor or the Chairman of the Duma to enter into any rela¬
tions whatever with representatives of the Military Revo¬
lutionary Committee or with the so-called Council of People’s
Commissars. Resoludon, to address another appeal to the
population of Petrograd to stand up for the defence of their
elected town government. Resolution, to remain in perma¬
nent session....


] The words in brackets are absent in newspaper reports.— Ed.


139






In the meanwhile one member arrived with the informa¬
tion that he had telephoned to Smolny, and that the Mili¬
tary Revolutionary Committee said that no orders had been
given to surround the Duma, that the troops would be with¬
drawn....

As we went downstairs Riazanov burst in through the front
door, very agitated.

“Are you going to dissolve the Duma?” I asked.

“My God, no!” he answered. “It is all a mistake. I told
the Mayor this morning that the Duma would be left
alone....”

Out on the Nevsky, in the deepening dusk, a long double
file of cyclists came riding, guns slung on their shoulders.
They halted, and the crowd pressed in and deluged them
with questions.

“Who are you? Where do you come from?” asked a fat old
man with a cigar in his mouth.

“Twelfth Army. From the front. We came to support the
Soviets against the damn bourgeoisie!”

“Ah!” were furious cries. “Bolshevik gendarmes! Bolshevik
Cossacks!”

A little officer in a leather coat came running down the
steps. “The garrison is turning!” he muttered in my ear.
“It’s the beginning of the end of the Bolsheviki. Do you want
to see the turn of the tide? Come on!” He started at a half¬
trot up the Mikhailovsky, and we followed.

“What regiment is it?”

“The bronneviki....” Here was indeed serious trouble. The
bronneviki were the Armoured Car troops, the key to the sit¬
uation; whoever controlled the bronneviki controlled the city.
“The Commissars of the Committee for Salvation and the
Duma have been talking to them. There’s a meeting on to
decide....”

“Decide what? Which side they’ll fight on?”

“Oh, no. That’s not the way to do it. They’ll never fight
against the Bolsheviki. They will vote to remain neutral—
and then the yunkers and Cossacks—”

The door of the great Mikhailovsky Riding-School yawned
blackly. Two sentinels tried to stop us, but we brushed by
hurriedly, deaf to their indignant expostulations. Inside only
a single arc-light burned dimly, high up near the roof of
the enormous hall, whose lofty pilasters and rows of win¬
dows vanished in the gloom. Around dimly squatted the
monstrous shapes of the armoured cars. One stood alone in
the centre of the place, under the light, and round it were
gathered some two thousand dun-colored soldiers, almost
lost in the immensity of that imperial building. A dozen men,
officers, chairmen of the Soldiers’ Committees and speakers,


140














were perched on top of the car, and from the central turret
a soldier was speaking. This was Khanjunov, who had been
president of last summer’s all-Russian Congress of Bronne-
viki. A lithe, handsome figure in his leather coat with lieu¬
tenant’s shoulder-straps, he stood pleading eloquently for
neutrality.

“It is an awful thing,” he said, “for Russians to kill their
Russian brothers. There must not be civil war between sol¬
diers who stood shoulder to shoulder against the Tsar, and
conquered the foreign enemy in battles which will go down
in history! What have we, soldiers, got to do with these
squabbles of political parties? I will not say to you that the
Provisional Government was a democratic Government; we
want no coalition with the bourgeoisie—no. But we must
have a Government of the united democracy, or Russia is
lost! With such a Government there will be no need for civil
war, and the killing of brother by brother!”

This sounded reasonable—the great hall echoed to the
crash of hands and voices.

A soldier climbed up, his face white and strained. “Com¬
rades!” he cried, “I came from the Rumanian front, to ur¬
gently tell you all: there must be peace! Peace at once! Who¬
ever can give us peace, whether it be the Bolsheviki or this
new Government, we will follow. Peace! We at the front can¬
not fight any longer. We cannot fight either Germans or
Russians—” With that he leaped down, and a sort of con¬
fused agonised sound rose up from all that surging mass,
which burst into something like anger when the next speak¬
er, a Menshevik oboronetz, tried to say that the war must
go on until the Allies were victorious.

“You talk like Kerensky!” shouted a rough voice.

A Duma delegate, pleading for neutrality. Him they lis¬
tened to, muttering uneasily, feeling him not one of them.
Never have I seen men trying so hard to understand, to
decide. They never moved, stood staring with a sort of ter¬
rible intentness at the speaker, their brows wrinkled with
the effort of thought, sweat standing out on their foreheads;
great giants of men with the innocent clear eyes of children
and the faces of epic warriors....

Now a Bolshevik was speaking, one of their own men,
violently, full of hate. They liked him no more than the
other. It was not their mood. For the moment they were
lifted out of the ordinary run of common thoughts, think¬
ing in terms of Russia, of Socialism, the world, as if it de¬
pended on them whether the Revolution were to live or
die....

Speaker succeeded speaker, debating amid tense silence,
roars of approval, or anger: should we come out or not?


141










Khanjunov returned, persuasive and sympathetic. But wasn’t
he an officer, and an oboronetz, however much he talked of
peace? Then a workman from Vasili Ostrov, but him they
greeted with, “And are you going to give us peace, working¬
man?” Near us some men, many of them officers, formed a
sort of claque to cheer the advocates of Neutrality. They kept
shouting, “Khanjunov! Khanjunov!” and whistled insultingly
when the Bolsheviki tried to speak.

Suddenly the committeemen and officers on top of the
automobile began to discuss something with great heat and
much gesticulation. The audience shouted to know what was
the matter, and all the great mass tossed and stirred. A sol¬
dier, held back by one of the officers, wrenched himself
loose and held up his hand.

“Comrades!” he cried, “Comrade Krylenko is here and
wants to speak to us.” An outburst of cheers, whistlings, yells
of “ Prosim! Prosim! Doloil Go ahead! Go ahead! Down with
him!” in the midst of which the People’s Commissar for
Military Affairs clambered up the side of the car, helped
by hands before and behind, pushed and pulled from below
and above. Rising he stood for a moment, and then walked
out on the radiator, put his hands on his hips and looked
around smiling, a squat, short-legged figure, bare-headed,
without insignia on his uniform.

The claque near me kept up a fearful shouting, “Khanju¬
nov! We want Khanjunov! Down with him! Shut up! Down
with the traitor!” The whole place seethed and roared. Then
it began to move, like an avalanche bearing down upon us,
great black-browed men forcing their way through.

“Who is breaking up our meeting?” they shouted. “Who
is whistling here?” The claque, rudely burst asunder, went
flying—nor did it gather again....

“Comrade soldiers!” began Krylenko, in a voice husky
with fatigue. “I cannot speak well to you; I am sorry; but
I have not had any sleep for four nights....

”1 don’t need to tell you that I am a soldier. I don’t need
to tell you that I want peace. What I must say is that the
Bolshevik party, successful in the Workers’ and Soldiers’
Revolution, by the help of you and of all the rest of the
brave comrades who have hurled down forever the power of
the blood-thirsty bourgeoisie, promised to offer peace to
all the peoples, and that has already been done—to-day!“
Tumultuous applause.

’’You are asked to remain neutral—to remain neutral while
the yunkers and the Death Battalions, who are never neutral,
shoot us down in the streets and bring back to Petrograd
Kerensky—or perhaps some other of the gang. Kaledin is
marching from the Don. Kerensky is coming from the front.


142










Kornilov is raising the Tekhintsi to repeat his attempt of
August. All these Mensheviki and Socialist Revolutionaries
who call upon you now to prevent civil war—how have they
retained the power except by civil war, that civil war
which has endured ever since last July, and in which they
constantly stood on the side of the bourgeoisie, as they do
now?

“How can I persuade you, if you have made up your
minds? The question is very plain. On one side are Keren¬
sky, Kaledin, Kornilov, the Mensheviki, Socialist Revolu¬
tionaries, Cadets, Dumas, officers.... They tell us that their
objects are good. On the other side are the workers, the sol¬
diers and sailors, the poorest peasants. The Government is
in your hands. You are the masters. Great Russia belongs to
you. Will you give it back?”

While he spoke, he kept himself up by sheer evident effort
of will, and as he went on the deep sincere feeling back of
his words broke through the tired voice. At the end he tot¬
tered, almost falling; a hundred hands reached up to help
him down, and the great dim spaces of the hall gave back the
surf of sound that beat upon him.

Khanjunov tried to speak again, but “Vote! Vote! Vote!”
they cried. At length, giving in, he read the resolution: that
the bronneviki withdraw their representative from the Mil¬
itary Revolutionary Committee, and declare their neutrality
in the present civil war. All those in favour should go to
the right; those opposed, to the left. There was a moment
of hesitation, a still expectancy, and then the crowd began
to surge faster and faster, stumbling over one another, to
the left, hundreds of big soldiers in a solid mass rushing
across the dirt floor in the faint light.... Near us about fifty
men were left stranded, stubbornly in favour, and even as
the high roof shook under the shock of victorious roaring,
they turned and rapidly walked out of the building—and,
some of them, out of the Revolution....

Imagine this struggle being repeated in every barracks of
the city, the district, the whole front, all Russia. Imagine
the sleepless Krylenkos, watching the regiments, hurrying
from place to place, arguing, threatening, entreating. And
then imagine the same in all the locals of every labour union,
in the factories, the villages, on the battle-ships of the far-
flung Russian fleets; think of the hundreds of thousands of
Russian men staring up at speakers all over the vast country,
workmen, peasants, soldiers, sailors, trying so hard to under¬
stand and to choose, thinking so intensely—and deciding so
unanimously at the end. So was the Russian Revolution....

Up at Smolny the new Council of People’s Commissars
was not idle. Already the first decree was on the presses, to


143








be circulated in thousands through the city streets that night,
and shipped in bales by every train southward and east:

In the name of the Government of the Russian Republic, chosen
by the All-Russian Congress of Soviets of Workers’ and Soldiers’
Deputies with participation of peasant deputies, the Council of
People’s Commissars decrees:

1. The elections for the Constituent Assembly shall take place
at the date determined upon—November 12.

2. All electoral commissions, organs of local self-government,
Soviets of Workers’, Soldiers’ and Peasants’ Deputies, and soldiers’
organisations at the front should make every effort to assure free
and regular elections at the date determined upon.

In the name of the Government of the Russian Republic,
The President of the Council of People’s Commissars,
Vladimir Ulianov-Lenin.

In the Municipal building the Duma was in full blast. A
member of the Council of the Republic was talking as we
came in. The Council, he said, did not consider itself dis¬
solved at all, but merely unable to continue its labours until
it secured a new meeting-place. In the meanwhile, its Com¬
mittee of Elders had determined to enter en masse the Com¬
mittee for Salvation.... This, I may remark parenthetically,
is the last time history mentions the Council of the Russian
Republic.

Then followed the customary string of delegates from
the Ministries, the Vikzhel, the Union of Posts and Tele¬
graphs, for the hundredth time reiterating their determina¬
tion not to work for the Bolshevik usurpers. A yunker who
had been in the Winter Palace told a highly-coloured tale
of the heroism of himself and his comrades, and disgraceful
conduct of the Red Guards—all of which was devoutly be¬
lieved. Somebody read aloud an account in the Socialist
Revolutionary paper Narod, which stated that five hundred
million roubles’ worth of damage had been done in the
Winter Palace, and describing in great detail the loot and
breakage.

From time to time couriers came from the telephone with
news. The four Socialist Ministers had been released from
prison. Krylenko had gone to Peter-Paul to tell Admiral Ver-
derevsky that the Ministry of Marine was deserted, and to
beg him, for the sake of Russia, to take charge under the
authority of the Council of People’s Commissars; and the
old seaman had consented.... Kerensky was advancing north
from Gatchina, the Bolshevik garrisons falling back before
him. Smolny had issued another decree, enlarging the pow¬
ers of the City Duma to deal with food supplies.

This last piece of insolence caused an outburst of fury. He,


144













Lenin, the usurper, the tyrant, whose Commissars had seized
the Municipal garage, entered the Municipal warehouses,
were interfering with the Supply Committees and the distri¬
bution of food—he presumed to define the limits of power
of the free, independent, autonomous City Government!
One member, shaking his fist, moved to cut off the food of
the city if the Bolsheviki dared to interfere with the Supply
Committees.... Another, representative of the Special Supply
Committee, reported that the food situation was very grave,
and asked that emissaries be sent out to hasten food trains.

Diedonenko announced dramatically that the garrison
was wavering. The Semionovsky regiment had already decid¬
ed to submit to the orders of the Socialist Revolutionary
party; the crews of the torpedo-boats on the Neva were
shaky. Seven members were at once appointed to continue
the propaganda....

Then the old Mayor stepped into the tribune: “Comrades
and citizens! I have just learned that the prisoners in Peter-
Paul are in danger. Fourteen yunkers of the Pavlovsk school
have been stripped and tortured by the Bolshevik guards.
One has gone mad. They are threatening to lynch the Min¬
isters!” There was a whirlwind of indignation and horror,
which only grew more violent when a stocky little woman
dressed in grey demanded the floor, and lifted up her hard,
metallic voice. This was Vera Slutskaya, veteran revolution¬
ist and Bolshevik member of the Duma.

“That is a lie and a provocation!” she said, unmoved at
the torrent of abuse. “The Workers’ and Peasants’ Govern¬
ment, which has abolished the death penalty, cannot permit
such deeds. We demand that this story be investigated, at
once; if there is any truth in it, the Government will take
energetic measures!”

A commission composed of members of all parties was
immediately appointed, and with the Mayor, sent to Peter-
Paul to investigate. As we followed them out, the Duma was
appointing another commission to meet Kerensky—to try
and avoid bloodshed when he entered the capital....

It was midnight when we bluffed our way past the guards
at the gate of the fortress, and went forward under the faint
glimmer of rare electric lights along the side of the church
where lie the tombs of the Tsars, beneath the slender golden
spire and the chimes, which, for months, continued to play
Bozhe Tsaria Khrani' every day at noon.... The place was
deserted: in most of the windows there were not even lights.


'“God save the Tsar.”

An inaccuracy: the chimes of the Peter and Paul Fortress played “ Kol
sloven..." (“Glory to you...”).— Ed.


10-253


145







Occasionally we bumped into a burly figure stumbling along
in the dark, who answered questions with the usual, “ Ya nie
znayu.”


KOMNCC&pb

T/iaoiaro tna«Jienii no-
mobi laKJimcHiil

r.->

k MC.

llcTporpaAb Cho/i^huk
HMCW>t*;KDMN.If 56.*



npon/cHt

TIpeACTaKMteAM Amspmkahckhxi Coui aanctnvccmmxi

ra3cn H x 0 H y PMfly.ao bc(> mIct* 3an/iio-

MtHiA rr. HeTporpafla h KpoKuitaxa, a/i* Oflaiaro 03na-
KOMficNifl no/iOMCHin 3 a whch Hukh m unipoiaro o6ii«c-
BfHH&rO OCBtAOMACHtA Bb Ui/lBXi npexpaitlCH i J) r&3CTH
5 Tpai/ix rrpOTMBb acmokp&t i h . -


KOMHCC
C e k p



Pass given to John Reed to visit freely all prisons.


On the left loomed the low dark outline of Trubetskoi
Bastion, that living grave in which so many martyrs of liberty
had lost their lives or their reason in the days of the Tsar,
where the Provisional Government had in turn shut up the
Ministers of the Tsar, and now the Bolsheviki had shut up
the Ministers of the Provisional Government.

A friendly sailor led us to the office of the commandant,
in a little house near the Mint. Half a dozen Red Guards,
sailors and soldiers were sitting around a hot room full of
smoke, in which a samovar steamed cheerfully. They wel¬
comed us with great cordiality, offering tea. The comman¬
dant was not in; he was escorting a commission of “ sabotazh-
niki" (sabotageurs) from the City Duma, who insisted that
the yunkers were all being murdered. This seemed to amuse
them very much. At one side of the room sat a bald-headed,
dissipated-looking little man in a frock-coat and a rich fur
coat, biting his moustache and staring around him like a
cornered rat. He had just been arrested. Somebody said,
glancing carelessly at him, that he was a Minister or some¬
thing.... The little man didn’t seem to hear it; he was evi¬
dently terrified, although the occupants of the room showed
no animosity whatever toward him.

I went across and spoke to him in French. “Count Tol-


146













stoy,” he answered, bowing stiffly. “I do not understand
why I was arrested. I was crossing the Troitsky Bridge on
my way home when two of these — of these—persons held me
up. I was a Commissar of the Provisional Government at¬
tached to the General Staff, but in no sense a member of
the Government....”

“Let him go,” said a sailor. “He’s harmless....”

“No,” responded the soldier who had brought the pris¬
oner. “We must ask the commandant.”

“Oh, the commandant!” sneered the sailor. “What did you
make a revolution for? To go on obeying officers?”

A praporshtchik of the Pavlovsky regiment was telling us
how the insurrection started. “The polk (regiment) was on
duty at the General Staff the night of the 6th. Some of my
comrades and I were standing guard; Ivan Pavlovitch and
another man — I don’t remember his name—well, they hid
behind the window-curtains in the room where the Staff
was having a meeting, and they heard a great many things.
For example, they heard orders to bring the Gatchina
yunkers to Petrograd by night, and an order for the Cos¬
sacks to be ready to march in the morning.... The princi¬
pal points in the city were to be occupied before dawn. Then
there was the business of opening the bridges. But when
they began to talk about surrounding Smolny, then Ivan Pav¬
lovitch couldn’t stand it any longer. That minute there was
a good deal of coming and going, so he slipped out and came
down to the guard-room, leaving the other comrade to pick
up what he could.

“I was already suspicious that something was going on.
Automobiles full of officers kept coming, and all the Min¬
isters were there. Ivan Pavlovitch told me what he had
heard. It was half-past two in the morning. The secretary
of the regimental Committee was there, so we told him and
asked what to do.

‘“Arrest everybody coming and going!’ he says. So we
began to do it. In an hour we had some officers and a couple
of Ministers, whom we sent up to Smolny right away. But
the Military Revolutionary Committee wasn’t ready; they
didn’t know what to do; and pretty soon back came the
order to let everybody go and not arrest anybody else. Well,
we ran all the way to Smolny, and I guess we talked for an
hour before they finally saw that it was war. It was five
o’clock when we got back to the Staff, and by that time most
of them were gone. But we got a few, and the garrison was
all on the march....”

A Red Guard from Vasili Ostrov described in great detail
what had happened in his district on the great day of the
rising. “We didn’t have any machine-guns over there,” he


10*


147




said, laughing, “and we couldn’t get any from Smolny. Com¬
rade Zalkind, who was a member of the Uprava (Central
Bureau) of the Ward Duma, remembered all at once that
there was lying in the meeting-room of the Uprava a machine-
gun which had been captured from the Germans. So he
and I and another comrade went there. The Mensheviki and
Socialist Revolutionaries were having a meeting. Well, we
opened the door and walked right in on them, as they sat
around the table—twelve or fifteen of them, three of us.
When they saw us they stopped talking and just stared. We
walked right across the room, uncoupled the machine-gun;
Comrade Zalkind picked up one part, I the other, we put
them on our shoulders and walked out—and not a single
man said a word!”

“Do you know how the Winter Palace was captured?”
asked a third man, a sailor. “Along about eleven oYlock we
found out there weren’t any more yunkers on the Neva side.
So we broke in the doors and filtered up the different stair¬
ways one by one, or in little bunches. When we got to the
top of the stairs the yunkers held us up and took away our
guns. Still our fellows kept coming up, little by little, until
we had a majority. Then we turned around and took away
the yunkers' guns....”

Just then the commandant entered—a merry-looking
young non-commissioned officer with his arm in a sling,
and deep circles of sleeplessness under his eyes. His eye fell
first on tne prisoner, who at once began to explain.

“Oh, yes,” interrupted the other. “You were one of the
committee who refused to surrender the Staff Wednesday af¬
ternoon. However, we don’t want you, citizen. Apologies—”
He opened the door and waved his arm for Count Tolstoy
to leave. Several of the others, especially the Red Guards,
grumbled protests, and the sailor remarked triumphantly,
“ Vot\ There! Didn’t I say so?”

Two soldiers now engaged his attention. They had been
elected a committee of the fortress garrison to protest. The
prisoners, they said, were getting the same food as the
guards, when there wasn’t even enough to keep a man from
being hungry. “Why should the counter-revolutionists be
treated so well?”

“We are revolutionists, comrades, not bandits,” answered
the commandant. He turned to us. We explained that ru¬
mours were going about that the yunkers were being tortured,
and the lives of the Ministers threatened. Could we perhaps
see the prisoners, so as to be able to prove to the world—?“

”No,“ said the young soldier, irritably. ”1 am not going
to disturb the prisoners again. I have just been compelled
to wake them up—they were sure we were going to massacre


148









them.... Most of the yunkers have been released anyway, and
the rest will go out to-morrow.” He turned abruptly away.

“Could we talk to the Duma commission, then?”

The commandant, who was pouring himself a glass of tea,
nodded. “They are still out in the hall,” he said careless¬
ly-

Indeed they stood there just outside the door, in the feeble
light of an oil lamp, grouped around the Mayor and talking
excitedly.

“Mr. Mayor,” I said, “we are American correspondents.
Will you please tell us officially the result of your investi¬
gations?”

He turned to us his face of venerable dignity.

“There is no truth in the reports,” he said slowly. “Ex¬
cept for the incidents which occurred as the Ministers were
being brought here, they have been treated with every con¬
sideration. As for the yunkers, not one has received the
slightest injury....”

Up the Nevsky, in the empty after-midnight gloom, an
interminable column of soldiers shuffled in silence—to bat¬
tle with Kerensky. In dim back streets automobiles with¬
out lights flitted to and fro, and there was furtive activity
in Fontanka 6, headquarters of the Peasants’ Soviet, in a
certain apartment of a huge building on the Nevsky, and
in the Injiniemy Zamoh (School of Engineers); the Duma
was illuminated....

In Smolny Institute the Military Revolutionary Commit¬
tee flashed baleful fire, pounding like an over-loaded
dynamo....







Chapter VII

THE REVOLUTIONARY FRONT


Saturday, November 10th....

Citizens!

The Military Revolutionary Committee declares that it will not
tolerate any violation of revolutionary order....

Theft, brigandage, assault and attempts at massacre will be
severely punished....

Following the example of the Paris Commune, the Committee
will destroy without mercy any looter or instigator of disorder....

Quiet lay the city. Not a hold-up, not a robbery, not even
a drunken fight. By night armed patrols went through the
silent streets, and on the corners soldiers and Red Guards
squatted around litde fires, laughing and singing. In the
day-time great crowds gathered on the sidewalks listening
to interminable hot debates between students and soldiers,
business men and workmen.

Citizens stopped each other on the street.

“The Cossacks are coming?”

“No....”

“What’s the latest?”

“I don’t know anything. Where’s Kerensky?”

“They say only eight versts from Petrograd.... Is it true
that the Bolsheviki have fled to the batdeship Avrora?”

“They say so....”

Only the walls screamed, and the few newspapers; denun¬
ciation, appeal, decree....

An enormous poster carried the hysterical manifesto of
the Executive Committee of the Peasants’ Soviets:

...They (the Bolsheviki) dare to say that they are supported by
the Soviets of Peasants’ Deputies, and that they are speaking on
behalf of the Soviets of Peasants’ Deputies....

Let all working-class Russia know that this is a lie, and that
all the working peasants —in the person of— the executive
committee of the All-Russian Soviets of Peasants' Deputies —
refute with indignation all participation of the organised
peasantry in this criminal violation of the will of the working-
classes....


150










From the Soldier Section of the Socialist Revolutionary
party:

The insane attempt of the Bolsheviki is on the eve of collapse.
The garrison is divided.... The Ministries are on strike and bread
is getting scarcer. All factions except the few Bolsheviki have left
the Congress. The Bolsheviki are alone....

We call upon all sane elements to group themselves around the
Committee for Salvation of Country and Revolution, and to pre¬
pare themselves seriously to be ready at the first call of the Central
Committee....

In a hand-bill the Council of the Republic recited its
wrongs:

Ceding to the force of bayonets, the Council of the Republic
has been obliged to separate, and temporarily to interrupt its
meetings.

The usurpers, with the words “Liberty and Socialism” on their
lips, have set up a rule of arbitrary violence. They have arrested
the members of the Provisional Government, closed the news¬
papers, seized the printing-shops.... This power must be con¬
sidered the enemy of the people and the Revolution; it is ne¬
cessary to do batde with it, and to pull it down....

The Council of the Republic, until the resumption of its labours,
invites the citizens of the Russian Republic to group themselves
around the ... local Committees for Salvation of Country and
Revolution, which are organising the overthrow of the Bol¬
sheviki and the creation of a Government capable of leading
the country to the Constituent Assembly.

Dielo Naroda said:

A revolution is a rising of all the people.... But here what
have we? Nothing but a handful of poor fools deceived by
Lenin and Trotzky.... Their decrees and their appeals will
simply add to the museum of historical curiosities....

And Narodnoye Slovo (People’s Word—Populist Socialist):

“Workers’ and Peasants’ Government?” That is only a pipe-
dream; nobody, either in Russia or in the countries of our Allies,
will recognise this “Government”—or even in the enemy coun¬
tries....

The bourgeois press had temporarily disappeared....

Pravda had an account of the first meeting of the new
Tsay-ee-kah, now the parliament of the Russian Soviet Re¬
public. Miliutin, Commissar of Agriculture, remarked that
the Peasants’ Executive Committee had called an All-Russian
Peasant Congress for December 13th.


151






“But we cannot wait,” he said. “We must have the backing
of the peasants. I propose that we call the Congress of
Peasants, and do it immediately....” The Left Socialist Rev¬
olutionaries agreed. An Appeal to the Peasants of Russia
was hastily drafted, and a committee of five elected to carry
out the project.

The question of detailed plans for distributing the land,
and the question of Workers’ Control of Industry, were post¬
poned until the experts working on them should submit a re¬
port.

Three decrees«1» were read and approved: first, Lenin’s
“General Rules for the Press,” ordering the suppression of
all newspapers inciting to resistance and disobedience to
the new Government, inciting to criminal acts, or delibera¬
tely perverting the news; the Decree of Moratorium for
House-rents; and the Decree Establishing a Workers’ Mili¬
tia. Also orders, one giving the Municipal Duma power to
requisition empty apartments and houses, the other directing
the unloading of freight-cars in the railroad terminals, to
hasten the distribution of necessities and to free the badly-
needed rolling-stock....

Two hours later the Executive Committee of the Peasants’
Soviets was sending broadcast over Russia the following
telegram:

The arbitrary organisation of the Bolsheviki, which is called
“Bureau of Organisation for the National Congress of Peasants,”
is inviting all the Peasants’ Soviets to send delegates to the
Congress at Petrograd....

The Executive Committee of the Soviets of Peasants' Deputies
declares that it considers, now as well as before, that it would be
dangerous to take away from the provinces at this moment the
forces necessary to prepare for elections to the Constituent As¬
sembly, which is the only salvation of the working-class and the
country. We confirm the date of the Congress of Peasants, De¬
cember 13 th.

At the Duma all was excitement, officers coming and
going, the Mayor in conference with the leaders of the Com¬
mittee for Salvation. A Councillor ran in with a copy of
Kerensky’s proclamation, dropped by hundreds from an
aeroplane low-flying down the Nevsky, which threatened ter¬
rible vengeance on all who did not submit, and ordered sol¬
diers to lay down their arms and assemble immediately in
Mars Field.

The Minister-President had taken Tsarskoye Selo, we were
told, and was already in the Petrograd campagna, five miles
away. He would enter the city to-morrow—in a few hours.
The Soviet troops in contact with his Cossacks were said to


152





be going over to the Provisional Government. Tchernov was
somewhere in between, trying to organise the “neutral”
troops into a force to halt the civil war.

In the city the garrison regiments were leaving the Bolshe-
viki, they said. Smolny was already abandoned.... All the
Governmental machinery had stopped functioning. The
employees of the State Bank had refused to work under
Commissars from Smolny, refused to pay out money to
them. All the private banks were closed. The ministries were
on strike. Even now a committee from the Duma was making
the rounds of business houses, collecting a fund«2» to pay the
salaries of the strikers....

Trotzky had gone to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and
ordered the clerks to translate the Decree on Peace into
foreign languages; six hundred functionaries had hurled
their resignations in his face.... Shliapnikov, Commissar of
Labour, had commanded all the employees of his Ministry
to return to their places within twenty-four hours, or lose
their places and their pension rights; only the door-servants
had responded.... Some of the branches of the Special Food
Supply Committee had suspended work rather than submit
to the Bolsheviki.... In spite of lavish promises of high wages
and better conditions, the operators at the Telephone Ex¬
change would not connect Soviet headquarters....

The Socialist Revoluuonary Party had voted to expel all
members who had remained in the Congress of Soviets, and
all who were taking part in the insurrection....

News from the provinces. Moghilev had declared against
the Bolsheviki. At Kiev the Cossacks had overthrown the So¬
viets and arrested all the insurrectionary leaders. The So¬
viet and garrison of Luga, thirty thousand strong, affirmed
its loyalty to the Provisional Government, and appealed to
all Russia to rally around it. Kaledin had dispersed all So¬
viets and Unions in the Don Basin, and his forces were
moving north....

Said a representative of the Railway Workers: “Yesterday
we sent a telegram all over Russia demanding that war be¬
tween the political parties cease at once, and insisting on
the formation of a coalition Socialist Government. Otherwise
we shall call a strike to-morrow night.... In the morning there
will be a meeting of all factions to consider the question.
The Bolsheviki seem anxious for an agreement....”

“If they last that long!” laughed the City Engineer, a stout,
ruddy man....

As we came up to Smolny—not abandoned, but busier
than ever, throngs of workers and soldiers running in and
out, and doubled guards everywhere—we met the reporters
for the bourgeois and “moderate” Socialist papers.


153










“Threw us out!” cried one, from Volia Naroda. “Bonch-
Bruevitch came down to the Press Bureau and told us to
leave! Said we were spies!” They all began to talk at once:
“Insult! Outrage! Freedom of the press!”

In the lobby were great tables heaped with stacks of ap¬
peals, proclamations and orders of the Military Revolutionary
Committee. Workmen and soldiers staggered past, carrying
them to waiting automobiles.

One began:

To the Pillory!

In this tragic moment through which the Russian masses are
living, the Mensheviki and their followers and the Right Socialist
Revolutionaries have betrayed the working-class. They have en¬
listed on the side of Kornilov, Kerensky and Savinkov....

They are printing orders of the traitor Kerensky and creating
a panic in the city, spreading the most ridiculous rumours of
mythical victories by that renegade....

Citizens! Don’t believe these false rumours. No power can defeat
the People’s Revolution.... Premier Kerensky and his followers await
speedy and well-deserved punishment....

We are putting them in the Pillory. We are abandoning them to
the enmity of all workers, soldiers, sailors and peasants, on whom
they are trying to rivet the ancient chains. They will never be able
to wash from theii bodies the stain of the people’s hatred and
contempt.

Shame and curses to the traitors of the People!...

The Military Revolutionary Committee had moved into
larger quarters, room 17 on the top floor. Red Guards were
at the door. Inside, the narrow space in front of the railing
was crowded with well-dressed persons, outwardly respectful
but inwardly full of murder—bourgeois who wanted permits
for their automobiles, or passports to leave the city, among
them many foreigners.... Bill Shatov and Peters were on
duty. They suspended all other business to read us the latest
bulletins.

The One Hundred and Seventy-ninth Reserve Regiment
offers its unanimous support. Five thousand stevedores at
the Putilov wharves greet the new Government. Central
Committee of the Trade Unions—enthusiastic support. The
garrison and squadron at Revel elect Military Revolutionary
Committees to co-operate, and despatch troops. Military
Revolutionary Committees control in Pskov and Minsk.
Greetings from the Soviets of Tsaritzin, Rostov-on-Don,
Pyatigorsk, Sevastopol.... The Finland Division, the new
Committees of the Fifth and Twelfth Armies, offer alle¬
giance....

From Moscow the news is uncertain. Troops of the Mili¬
tary Revolutionary Committee occupy the strategic points of


154




the city; two companies on duty in the Kremlin have gone
over to the Soviets, but the Arsenal is in the hands of Colo¬
nel Riabtsev and his yunkers. The Military Revolutionary
Committee demanded arms for the workers, and Riabtsev
parleyed with them until this morning, when suddenly he
sent an ultimatum to the Committee, ordering Soviet troops
to surrender and the Committee to disband. Fighting has
begun....

In Petrograd the Staff submitted to Smolny’s Commis¬
sars at once. The Tsentroflot, refusing, was stormed by Dy¬
benko and a company of Cronstadt sailors, and a new Tsen¬
troflot set up, supported by the Baltic and the Black Sea
battleships....

But beneath all the breezy assurances there was a chill pre¬
monition, a feeling of uneasiness in the air. Kerensky’s
Cossacks were coming fast; they had artillery. Skripnik,
Secretary of the Factory-Shop Committees, his face drawn
and yellow, assured me that there was a whole army corps
of them, but he added fiercely, “They’ll never take us
alive!” Petrovsky laughed weariedly, “To-morrow maybe
we’ll get a sleep)—a long one....” Lozovsky, with his ema¬
ciated, red-bearded face, said, “What chance have we? All
alone.... A mob against trained soldiers!”

South and south-west the Soviets had fled before Keren¬
sky, and the garrisons of Gatchina, Pavlovsk, Tsarskoye Selo
were divided—half voting to remain neutral, the rest, with¬
out officers, falling back on the capital in the wildest disor¬
der.

In the halls they were pasting up bulletins:

From Krasnoye Selo, November 10th, 8 A.M.

To be communicated to all Commanders of Staffs, Commanders
in Chief, Commanders, everywhere and to all, all, all.

The ex-Minister Kerensky has sent a deliberately false telegram
to every one everywhere to the effect that the troops of revolution¬
ary Petrograd have voluntarily surrendered their arms and joined
the armies of the former Government, the Government of Treason,
and that the soldiers have been ordered by the Military Revolu¬
tionary Committee to retreat. The troops of a free people do not
retreat nor do they surrender.

Our troops have left Gatchina in order to avoid bloodshed be¬
tween themselves and their mistaken brother-Cossacks, and in
order to take a more convenient position, which is at present so
strong that if Kerensky and his companions in arms should even
increase their forces ten times, still there would be no cause for
anxiety. The spirit of our troops is excellent.

In Petrograd all is quiet.

Chief of the Defence of Petrograd
and the Petrograd District,

Lieutenant-Colonel Muraviov.


155






As we left the Military Revolutionary Committee Anto¬
nov entered, a paper in his hand, looking like a corpse.

“Send this,” said he.

To All District Soviets of Workers’ Deputies
and Factory-shop Committees

Order

The Kornilovist bands of Kerensky are threatening the ap¬
proaches to the capital. All the necessary orders have been given
to crush mercilessly the counter-revolutionary attempt against the
people and its conquests.

Tne Army and the Red Guard of the Revolution are in need
of the immediate support of the workers.

We order the ward Soviets and Factory-shop Committees:

1. To move out the greatest possible number of workers for
the digging of trenches, the erection of barricades and reinforc¬
ing of wire entanglements.

2. Wherever it shall be necessary for this purpose to stop work
at the factories this shall be done immediately.

3. All common and barbed wire available must be assembled,
and also all implements for the digging of trenches and the
erection of barricades.

4. All available arms must be taken.

5. The strictest Discipline is to be observed, and every one must
be ready to support the Army of the Revolution by all means.

Chairman of the Petrograd Soviet of Workers’
and Soldiers’ Deputies.

People’s Commissar Leon Trotzky.

Chairman of the Military Revolutionary Committee,
Commander-in-Chief Pod voisky.

As we came out into the dark and gloomy day all around
the grey horizon factory whistles were blowing, a hoarse
and nervous sound, full of foreboding. By tens of thousands
the working-people poured out, men and women; by tens of
thousands the humming slums belched out their dun and
miserable hordes. Red Petrograd was in danger! Cossacks!
South and south-west they poured through the shabby streets
toward the Moskovsky Gate, men, women and children, with
rifles, picks, spades, rolls of wire, cartridge-belts over their
working clothes.... Such an immense, spontaneous outpour¬
ing of a city never was seen! They rolled along torrent-like,
companies of soldiers borne with them, guns, motor-trucks,
wagons—the revolutionary proletariat defending with
its breast the capital of the Workers’ and Peasants’ Repub¬
lic!

Before the door of Smolny was an automobile. A slight
man with thick glasses magnifying his red-rimmed eyes, his
speech a painful effort, stood leaning against a mud-guard


156










with his hands in the pockets of a shabby raglan. A great
bearded sailor, with the clear eyes of youth, prowled rest¬
lessly about, absently toying with an enormous blue-steel
revolver, which never left his hand. These were Antonov
and Dybenko.

Some soldiers were trying to fasten two military bicycles
on the running-board. The chauffeur violendy protested;
the enamel would get scratched, he said. True, he was a
Bolshevik, and the automobile was commandeered from a
bourgeois; true, the bicycles were for the use of orderlies.
But the chauffeur’s professional pride was revolted.... So
the bicycles were abandoned....

The People’s Commissars for War and Marine were going
to inspect the revolutionary front—wherever that was. Could
we go with them? Certainly not. The automobile only held
five—the two Commissars, two orderlies and the chauffeur.
However, a Russian acquaintance of mine, whom I will call
Trusishka, calmly got in and sat down, nor could any argu¬
ment dislodge him....

I see no reason to doubt Trusishka’s story of the jour¬
ney. As they went down the Suvorovsky Prospekt some one
mentioned food. They might be out three or four days, in
a country indifferendy well provisioned. They stopped the
car. Money? The Commissar of War looked through his
pockets—he hadn’t a kopeck. The Commissar of Marine was
broke. So was the chauffeur. Trusishka bought the provi¬
sions....

Just as they turned into the Nevsky a tire blew out.

“What shall we do?” asked Antonov.

“Commandeer another machine!” suggested Dybenko,
waving his revolver. Antonov stood in the middle of the
street and signalled a passing machine, driven by a soldier.

“I want that machine,” said Antonov.

“You won’t get it,” responded the soldier.

“Do you know who I am?” Antonov produced a paper
upon which was written that he had been appointed Com-
mander-in-Chief of all the armies of the Russian Republic,
and that every one should obey him without question.

“I don’t care if you’re the devil himself,” said the sol¬
dier, hotly. “This machine belongs to the First Machine-Gun
Regiment, and we’re carrying ammunition in it, and you
can’t have it....”

The difficulty, however, was solved by the appearance
of an old battered taxi-cab, flying the Italian flag. (In time of
trouble private cars were registered in the name of foreign
consulates, so as to be safe from requisition.) From the in¬
terior of this was dislodged a fat citizen in an expensive fur
coat, and the party continued on its way.


157






Arrived at Narvskaya Zastava, about ten miles out, Anto¬
nov called for the commandant of the Red Guard. He was
led to the edge of the town, where some few hundred
workmen had dug trenches and were waiting for the Cos¬
sacks.

“Everything all right here, comrade?” asked Antonov.

“Everything perfect, comrade,” answered the comman¬
dant. “The troops are in excellent spirits.... Only one thing
—we have no ammunition....”

“In Smolny there are two billion rounds,” Antonov told
him. “I will give you an order.” He felt in his pockets. “Has
anyone a piece of paper?”

Dybenko had none—nor the couriers. Trusishka had to
offer his note-book....

“Devil! I have no pencil!” cried Antonov. “Who’s got a
pencil?” Needless to say, Trusishka had the only pencil in
the crowd....

We who were left behind made for the Tsarskoye Selo
station. Up the Nevsky, as we passed, Red Guards were
marching, all armed, some with bayonets and some without.
The early twilight of winter was falling. Heads up they
tramped in the chill mud, irregular lines of four, without
music, without drums. A red flag crudely lettered in gold,
“Peace! Land!” floated over them. They were very young.
The expression on their faces was that of men who know
they are going to die.... Half-fearful, half-contemptuous, the
crowds on the sidewalk watched them pass, in hateful
silence....

At the railroad station nobody knew just where Keren¬
sky was, or where the front lay. Trains went no further,
however, than Tsarskoye....

Our car was full of commuters and country people going
home, laden with bundles and evening papers. The talk was
all of the Bolshevik rising. Outside of that, however, one
would never have realised that civil war was rending mighty
Russia in two, and that the train was headed into the zone
of battle. Through the window we could see, in the swiftly-
deepening darkness, masses of soldiers going along the
muddy road toward the city, flinging out their arms in argu¬
ment. A freight-train, swarming with troops and lit up by
huge bonfires, was halted on a siding. That was all. Batk
along the flat horizon the glow of the city’s lights faded
down the night. A street-car crawled distantly along a far-
flung suburb....

Tsarskoye Selo station was quiet, but knots of soldiers
stood here and there talking in low tones and looking uneasi¬
ly down the empty track in the direction of Gatchina. I asked
some of them which side they were on. “Well,” said one, “we


158









don’t exacdy know the rights of the matter.... There is no
doubt that Kerensky is a provocator, hut we do not consider
it right for Russian men to be shooting Russian men.”

In the station commandant’s office was a big, jovial, beard¬
ed common soldier, wearing the red arm-band of a regi¬
mental committee. Our credentials from Smolny commanded
immediate respect. He was plainly for the Soviets, but be¬
wildered.

“The Red Guards were here two hours ago, but they went
away again. A Commissar came this morning, but he re¬
turned to Petrograd when the Cossacks arrived.”

“The Cossacks are here then?”

He nodded, gloomily. “There has been a battle. The Cos¬
sacks came early in the morning. They captured two or three
hundred of our men, and killed about twenty-five.”

“Where are the Cossacks?”

“Well, they didn’t get this far. I don’t know just where
they are. Off that way....” He waved his arm vaguely west¬
ward.

We had dinner—an excellent dinner, better and cheaper
than could be got in Petrograd—in the station restaurant.
Nearby sat a French officer who had just come on foot from
Gatchina. All was quiet there, he said. Kerensky held the
town. “Ah, these Russians,” he went on, “they are original!
What a civil war! Everything except the fighting!”

We sallied out into the (own. Just at the door of the sta¬
tion stood two soldiers with rifles and bayonets fixed. They
were surrounded by about a hundred business men. Govern¬
ment officials and students, who attacked them with passion¬
ate argument and epithet. The soldiers were uncomfortable
and hurt, like children unjustly scolded.

A tall young man with a supercilious expression, dressed
in the uniform of a student, was leading the attack.

“You realise, I presume,” he said insolently, “that by
taking up arms against your brothers you are making your¬
selves the tools of murderers and traitors?”

“Now brother,” answered the soldier earnestly, “you don’t
understand. There are two classes, don’t you see, the prole¬
tariat and the bourgeoisie. We—”

“Oh, I know that silly talk!” broke in the student rudely.
“A bunch of ignorant peasants like you hear somebody bawl¬
ing a few catch-words. You don’t understand what they
mean. You just echo them like a lot of parrots.” The crowd
laughed. “I’m a Marxian student. And I tell you that this
isn’t Socialism you are fighting for. It’s just plain pro-
German anarchy!”

“Oh, yes, I know,” answered the soldier, with sweat drip¬
ping from his brow. “You are an educated man, that is easy


159




to see, and I am only a simple man. But it seems to me—”

“I suppose,” interrupted the other contemptuously, “that
you believe Lenin is a real friend of the proletariat?”

“Yes, I do,” answered the soldier, suffering.

“Well, my friend, do you know that Lenin was sent
through Germany in a closed car? Do you know that Lenin
took money from the Germans?”

“Well, I don’t know much about that,” answered the sol
dier stubbornly, “but it seems to me that what he says is
what I want to hear, and all the simple men like me. Now
there are two classes, the bourgeoisie and the proletariat—”

“You are a fool! Why, my friend, I spent two years in
Schlusselburg for revolutionary activity, when you were still
shooting down revolutionists and singing, ‘God Save the
Tsar!’ My name is Vasili Georgevitch Panyin. Didn’t you
ever hear of me?”

“I’m sorry to say I never did,” answered the soldier with
humility. “But then, I am not an educated man. You are
probably a great hero.”

“I am,” said the student with conviction. “And I am op¬
posed to the Bolsheviki, who are destroying our Russia, our
free Revolution. Now how do you account for that?”

The soldier scratched his head. “I can’t account for it at
all,” he said, grimacing with the pain of his intellectual
processes. “To me it seems perfecdy simple—but then, I’m
not well educated. It seems like there are only two classes,
the proletariat and the bourgeoisie—”

“There you go again with your silly formula!” cried the
student.

“—only two classes,” went on the soldier, doggedly. “And
whoever isn’t on one side is on the other....’

We wandered on up the street, where the lights were few
and far between, and where people rarely passed. A threat¬
ening silence hung over the place—as of a sort of purgatory
between heaven and hell, a political No Man’s Land. Only
the barber shops were all brilliantly lighted and crowded,
and a line formed at the doors of the public bath; for it
was Saturday night, when all Russia bathes and perfumes
itself. I haven’t the slightest doubt that Soviet troops and
Cossacks mingled in the places where these ceremonies were
performed.

The nearer we came to the Imperial Park, the more de¬
serted were the streets. A frightened priest pointed out the
headquarters of the Soviet, and hurried on. It was in the
wing of one of the Grand Ducal palaces, fronting the Park.
The windows were dark, the door locked. A soldier, loung¬
ing about with his hands in the top of his trousers, looked
us up and down with gloomy suspicion. “The Soviet went


160







away two days ago,” said he. “Where?” A shrug. “Nie znayu.
I don’t know.”

A little further along was a large building, brightly illu¬
minated. From within came a sound of hammering. While
we were hesitating, a soldier and a sailor came down the
street, hand in hand. I showed them my pass from Smolny.
“Are you for the Soviets?” I asked. Tney did not answer,
but looked at each other in a frightened way.

“What is going on in there?” asked the sailor, pointing
to the building.

“I don’t know.”

Timidly the soldier put out his hand and opened the door
a crack. Inside a great hall hung with bunting and ever¬
greens, rows of chairs, a stage being built.

A stout woman with a hammer in her hand and her mouth
full of tacks came out. “What do you want?” she asked.

“Is there a performance to-night?” said the sailor, ner¬
vously.

“There will be private theatricals Sunday night,” she
answered severely. “Go away.”

We tried to engage the soldier and sailor in conversation,
but they seemed frightened and unhappy, and drew off into
the darkness.

We strolled toward the Imperial Palaces, along the edge
of the vast, dark gardens, their fantastic pavilions and orna¬
mental bridges looming uncertainly in the night, and soft
water splashing from the fountains. At one place, where a
ridiculous iron swan spat unceasingly from an artificial
grotto, we were suddenly aware of observation, and looked
up to encounter the sullen, suspicious gaze of half a dozen
gigantic armed soldiers, who stared moodily down from a
grassy terrace. I climbed up to them. “Who are you?” I
asked.

“We are the guard,” answered one. They all looked very
depressed, as undoubtedly they were, from weeks and weeks
of all-day, all-night argument and debate.

“Are you Kerensky’s troops, or the Soviets’?”

There was silence for a moment, as they looked uneasily
at each other. Then, “We are neutral,” said he.

We went on through the arch of the huge Ekaterina Pal¬
ace, into the Palace enclosure itself, asking for headquarters.
A sentry outside a door in a curving white wing of the Palace
said that the commandant was inside.

In a graceful, white, Georgian room, divided into un¬
equal parts by a two-sided fire-place, a group of officers
stood anxiously talking. They were pale and distracted,
and evidently hadn’t slept. To one, an oldish man with a
white beard, his uniform studded with decorations, who was


11 253


161







pointed out as the Colonel, we showed our Bolshevik pa¬
pers.

He seemed surprised. “How did you get here without
being killed?” he asked politely. “It is very dangerous in the
streets just now. Political passion is running very high in
Tsarskoye Selo. There was a battle this morning, and there
will be another to-morrow morning. Kerensky is to enter
the town at eight o’clock.”

“Where are the Cossacks?”

“About a mile over that way.” He waved his arm.

“And you will defend the city against them?”

“Oh dear no.” He smiled. “We are holding the city for
Kerensky.” Our hearts sank, for our passes slated that we
were revolutionary to the core. The Colonel cleared his
throat. “About those passes of yours,” he went on. “Your
lives will be in danger if you are captured. Therefore, if
you want to see the battle, I will give you an order for rooms
in the officers’ hotel, and if you will come back here at seven
o’clock in the morning, I will give you new passes.”

“So you are for Kerensky?” we said.

“Well, not exactly for Kerensky.” The Colonel hesitated.
“You see, most of the soldiers in the garrison are Bolshe-
viki, and to-day, after the battle, they all went away in the
direction of Petrograd, taking the artillery with them. You
might say that none of the soldiers are for Kerensky; but some
of them just don’t want to fight at all. The officers have al¬
most all gone over to Kerensky’s forces, or simply gone away.
We are — ahem—in a most difficult position, as you see....’

We did not believe that there would be any battle.... The
Colonel courteously sent his orderly to escort us to the rail¬
road station. He was from the South, born of French immig¬
rant parents in Bessarabia. “Ah,” he kept saying, “it is not
the danger or the hardships I mind, but being so long, three
years, away from my mother....”

Looking out of the window of the train as we sped
through the cold dark toward Petrograd, I caught glimpses
of clumps of soldiers gesticulating in the light of fires, and
of clusters of armoured cars halted together at crossroads,
the chauffeurs hanging out of the turrets and shouting to
each other....

All the troubled night over the bleak flats leaderless bands
of soldiers and Red Guards wandered, clashing and con¬
fused, and the Commissars of the Military Revolutionary
Committee hurried from one group to another, trying to
organise a defence....

Back in town excited throngs were moving in tides up
and down the Nevsky. Something was in the air. From the
Warsaw Railway station could be heard far-off cannonade.


162





In the junker schools there was feverish activity. Duma
members went from barracks to barracks, arguing and plead¬
ing, narrating fearful stories of Bolshevik violence—
massacre of the yunkers in the Winter Palace, rape of the
women soldiers, the shooting of the girl before the Duma,
the murder of Prince Tumanov.... In the Alexander Hall of
the Duma building the Committee for Salvation was in spe¬
cial session; Commissars came and went, running.... All the
journalists expelled from Smolny were there, in high spirits.
They did not believe our report of conditions in Tsarskoye.
Why, everybody knew that Tsarskoye was in Kerensky’s
hands, and that the Cossacks were now at Pulkovo. A com¬
mittee was being elected to meet Kerensky at the railway
station in the morning....

One confided to me, in strictest secrecy, that the counter¬
revolution would begin at midnight. He showed me two
proclamations, one signed by Gotz and Polkovnikov, order¬
ing the yunker schools, soldier convalescents in the hospitals,
and the Knights of St. George to mobilise on a war footing
and wait for orders from the Committee for Salvation; the
other from the Committee for Salvation itself, which read as
follows:

To the Population of Petrograd!

Comrades, workers, soldiers and citizens of revolutionary Pet¬
rograd!

The Bolsheviki, while appealing for peace at the front, are in¬
citing to civil war in the rear.

Do not listen to their provocatory appeals!

Do not dig trenches!

Down with the traitorous barricades!

Lay down your arms!

Soldiers, return to your barracks!

The war begun in Petrograd—is the death of the Revolution!

In the name of liberty, land, and peace, unite around the Com¬
mittee for Salvation of Country and Revolution!

As we left the Duma a company of Red Guards, stern¬
faced and desperate, came marching down the dark, desert¬
ed street with a dozen prisoners—members of the local
branch of the Council of Cossacks, caught red-handed plot¬
ting counter-revolution in their headquarters....

A soldier, accompanied by a small boy with a pail of paste,
was sticking up great flaring notices:

By virtue of the present, the city of Petrograd and its suburbs
are declared in a state of siege. All assemblies or meetings in the
streets, and generally in the open air, are forbidden until further
orders.

N.Podvoisky,

President of the Military Revolutionary Committee.

163

ll*






As we went home the air was full of confused sound—
automobile horns, shouts, distant shots. The city stirred
uneasily, wakeful.

In the small hours of the morning a company of yunkers,
disguised as soldiers of the Semionovsky Regiment, present¬
ed themselves at the Telephone Exchange just before the
hour of changing guard. They had the Bolshevik password,
and took charge without arousing suspicion. A few minutes
later Antonov appeared, making a round of inspection. Him
they captured and locked in a small room. When the relief
came it was met by a blast of rifle-fire, several being killed.

Counter-revolution had begun....







Chapter VIII

COUNTER-REVOLUTION


Next morning, Sunday the 11th, the Cossacks entered
Tsarskoye Selo, Kerensky«l» himself riding a white horse and
all the church-bells clamouring. From the top of a litde hill
outside the town could be seen the golden spires and many-
coloured cupolas, the sprawling grey immensity of the cap¬
ital spread along the dreary plain, and beyond, the steely
Gulf of Finland.

There was no battle. But Kerensky made a fatal blunder.
At seven in the morning he sent word to the Second Tsar¬
skoye Selo Rifles to lay down their arms. The soldiers re¬
plied that they would remain neutral, but would not disarm.
Kerensky gave them ten minutes in which to obey. This an¬
gered the soldiers; for eight months they had been govern¬
ing themselves by committee, and this smacked of the old re¬
gime.... A few minutes later Cossack artillery opened fire on
the barracks, killing eight men. From that moment there
were no more “neutral” soldiers in Tsarskoye....

Petrograd woke to bursts of rifle-fire, and the tramping
thunder of men marching. Under the high dark sky a cold
wind smelt of snow. At dawn the Military Hotel and the Tel¬
egraph Agency had been taken by large forces of yunkers,
and bloodily recaptured. The Telephone Station was be¬
sieged by sailors, who lay behind barricades of barrels, boxes
and tin sheets in the middle of the Morskaya, or sheltered
themselves at the corner of the Gorokhovaya and of
St. Isaac’s Square, shooting at anything that moved. Occa¬
sionally an automobile passed in and out, flying the Red
Cross flag. The sailors let it pass....

Albert Rhys Williams' was in the Telephone Exchange. He
went out with the Red Cross automobile, which was osten¬
sibly full of wounded. After circulating about the city, the
car went by devious ways to the Mikhailovsky yunker school,
headquarters of the counter-revoluUon. A French officer, in
the court-yard, seemed to be in command.... By this means
ammunition and supplies were conveyed to the Telephone


1 Albert Rhys Williams, a friend of John Reed, an American progressive
public figure and publicist, the author of a number of books about the
struggle Tor socialism in the U.S.S.R. — Ed.


165




Exchange. Scores of these pretended ambulances acted as
couriers and ammunition trains for the yunkers.

Five or six armoured cars, belonging to the disbanded
British Armoured Car Division, were in their hands. As
Louise Bryant 1 was going along St. Isaac’s Square one came
rolling up from the Admiralty, on its way to the Telephone
Exchange. At the corner of the Gogolia, right in front of
her, the engine stalled. Some sailors ambushed behind wood-
piles began shooting. The machine-gun in the turret of the
thing slewed around and spat a hail of bullets indiscriminate¬
ly into the wood-piles and the crowd. In the archway where
Miss Bryant stood seven people were shot dead, among them
two litde boys. Suddenly, with a shout, the sailors leaped up
and rushed into the flaming open; closing around the mons¬
ter, they thrust their bayonets into the loop-holes, again and
again, yelling.... The chauffeur pretended to be wounded,
and they let him go free—to run to the Duma and swell the
tale of Bolshevik atrocities.... Among the dead was a British
officer....

Later the newspapers told of another French officer, cap¬
tured in a yunker armoured car and sent to Peter-Paul. The
French Embassy promptly denied this, but one of the City
Councillors told me that he himself had procured the offi¬
cer’s release from prison....

Whatever the official attitude of the Allied Embassies, in¬
dividual French and British officers were active these days,
even to the extent of giving advice at executive sessions of
the Committee for Salvation.

All day long in every quarter of the city there were skir¬
mishes between yunkers and Red Guards, battles between ar¬
moured cars.... Volleys, single shots and the shrill chatter
of machine-guns could be heard, far and near. The iron
shutters of the shops were drawn, but business still went on.
Even the moving-picture shows, all outside lights dark,
played to crowded houses. The street-cars ran. The tele¬
phones were all working; when you called Central, shooting
could be plainly heard over the wire.... Smolny was cut oft,
but the Duma and the Committee for Salvation were in con¬
stant communication with all the yunker schools and with Ke¬
rensky at Tsarskoye.

At seven in the morning the Vladimir yunker school was vis¬
ited by a patrol of soldiers, sailors and Red Guards, who
gave the yunkers twenty minutes to lay down their arms. The
ultimatum was rejected. An hour later the yunkers got ready
to march, but were driven back by a violent fusillade from


1 Louise Bryant (1890-1936), an American authoress, the wife and com-
rade of John Reed.— Ed.


166








the corner of the Grebetskaya and the Bolshoy Prospekt. So¬
viet troops surrounded the building and opened fire, two ar¬
moured cars cruising back and forth with machine-guns rak¬
ing it. The yunkers telephoned for help. The Cossacks replied
that they dare not come, because a large body of sailors with
two cannon commanded their barracks. The Pavlovsk school
was surrounded. Most of the Mikhailov yunkers were fighting
in the streets....

At half-past eleven three field-pieces arrived. Another de¬
mand to surrender was met by the yunkers shooting down two
of the Soviet delegates under the white flag. Now began a
real bombardment. Great holes were torn in the walls of the
school. The yunkers defended themselves desperately: shout¬
ing waves of Red Guards, assaulting, crumpled under the
withering blast.... Kerensky telephoned from Tsarskoye to
refuse all parley with the Military Revolutionary Committee.

Frenzied by defeat and their heaps of dead, the Soviet
troops opened a tornado of steel and flame against the bat¬
tered building. Their own officers could not stop the ter¬
rible bombardment. A Commissar from Smolny named Kiri¬
lov tried to halt it; he was threatened with lynching. The
Red Guards’ blood was up.

At half-past two the yunkers hoisted a white flag; they
would surrender if they were guaranteed protection. This
was promised. With a rush and a shout thousands of soldiers
and Red Guards poured through windows, doors and holes
in the wall. Before it could be stopped five yunkers were
beaten and stabbed to death. The rest, about two hundred,
were taken to Peter-Paul under escort, in small groups so as
to avoid notice. On the way a mob set upon one party, killing
eight more yunkers.... More than a hundred Red Guards and
soldiers had fallen....

Two hours later the Duma got a telephone message that
the victors were marching toward the Injiniemy Zamok — the
Engineers’ school. A dozen members immediately set out to
distribute among them armfuls of the latest proclamation of
the Committee for Salvation. Several did not come back....
All the other schools surrendered without resistance, and the
yunkers were sent unharmed to Peter-Paul and Cronstadt....

The Telephone Exchange held out until afternoon, when
a Bolshevik armoured car appeared, and the sailors stormed
the place. Shrieking, the frightened telephone girls ran to
and fro; the yunkers tore from their uniforms all distinguish¬
ing marks, and one offered Williams anything for the loan of
his overcoat, as a disguise.... “They will massacre us! They
will massacre us!” they cried, for many of them had given
their word at the Winter Palace not to take up arms against
the People. Williams offered to mediate if Antonov were re-


167






leased. This was immediately done; Antonov and Williams
made speeches to the victorious sailors, inflamed by their
many dead—and once more the junkers went free.... All but a
few, who in their panic tried to flee over the roofs, or to
hide in the attic, and were found and hurled into the street.

Tired, bloody, triumphant, the sailors and workers
swarmed into the switch-board room, and finding so many
pretty girls, fell back in an embarrassed way and fumbled
with awkward feet. Not a girl was injured, not one insulted.
Frightened, they huddled in the corners, and then, finding
themselves safe, gave vent to their spite. “Ugh! The dirty,
ignorant people! The fools!”... The sailors and Red Guards
were embarrassed. “Brutes! Pigs!” shrilled the girls, indig¬
nantly putting on their coats and hats. Romantic had been
their experience passing up cartridges and dressing the
wounds of their dashing young defenders, the junkers, many
of them members of noble families, fighting to restore their
beloved Tsar! These were just common workmen, peasants,
“Dark People.”...

The Commissar of the Military Revolutionary Committee,
little Vishniak, tried to persuade the girls to remain. He was
effusively polite. “You have been badly treated,” he said.
“The telephone system is controlled by the Municipal Duma.
You are paid sixty roubles a month, and have to work ten
hours and more,... From now on all that will be changed.
The Government intends to put the telephones under con¬
trol of the Ministry of Posts and Telegraphs. Your wages will
be immediately raised to one hundred and fifty roubles, and
your working-hours reduced. As members of the working-
class you should be happy—”

Members of the working-class indeed! Did he mean to in¬
fer that there was anything in common between these—these
animals—and us? Remain? Not if they offered a thousand
roubles!... Haughty and spiteful, the girls left the place....

The employees of the building, the line-men and labour¬
ers— they stayed. But the switch-boards must be operated—
the telephone was vital.... Only half a dozen trained opera¬
tors were available. Volunteers were called for; a hundred
responded, sailors, soldiers, workers. The six girls scurried
backward and forward, instructing, helping, scolding.... So,
crippled, halting, but going, the wires slowly began to hum.
The first thing was to connect Smolny with the barracks and
the factories; the second, to cut off the Duma and the junker
schools.... Late in the afternoon word of it spread through
the city, and hundreds of bourgeois called up to scream,
“Fools! Devils! How long do you think you will last? Wait till
the Cossacks come!”

Dusk was already falling. On the almost deserted Nevsky,


168








swept by a bitter wind, a crowd had gathered before the
Kazan Cathedral, continuing the endless debate; a few work¬
men, some soldiers and the rest shop-keepers, clerks and the
like.

“But Lenin won’t get Germany to make peace!” cried one.

A violent young soldier replied, “And whose fault is it?
Your damn Kerensky, dirty bourgeois! To hell with Keren¬
sky! We don’t want him! We want Lenin....”

Outside the Duma an officer with a white arm-band was
tearing down posters from the wall, swearing loudly. One
read:

To the Population of Petrograd!

At this dangerous hour, when the Municipal Duma ought to use
every means to calm the population, to assure it bread and other
necessities, the Right Socialist Revolutionaries and the Cadets, for¬
getting their duty, have turned the Duma into a counter-revolution¬
ary meeting, trying to raise part of the population against the rest,
so as to facilitate the victory of Kornilov-Kerensky. Instead of do¬
ing their duty, the Right Socialist Revolutionaries and the Cadets
have transformed the Duma into an arena of political attack upon
the Soviets of Workers’, Soldiers’ and Peasants’ Deputies, against
the revolutionary Government of peace, bread and liberty.

Citizens of Petrograd, we, the Bolshevik Municipal Councillors
elected by you—we want you to know that the Right Socialist Revo¬
lutionaries and the Cadets are engaged in counter-revolutionary ac¬
tion, have forgotten their duty, and are leading the population to
famine, to civil war. We, elected by 183,000 votes, consider it our
duty to bring to the attention of our constituents what is going on
in the Duma, and declare that we disclaim all responsibility for the
terrible but inevitable consequences....

Far away still sounded occasional shots, but the city lay
quiet, cold, as if exhausted by the violent spasms which had
torn it.

In the Nicolai Hall the Duma session was coming to an
end. Even the truculent Duma seemed a little stunned. One
after another the Commissars reported—capture of the Tele¬
phone Exchange, street-fighting, the taking of the Vladimir
school.... “The Duma,” said Trupp, “is on the side of the
democracy in its struggle against arbitrary violence; but in
any case, whichever side wins, the Duma will always be
against lynchings and torture....”

Konovski, Cadet, a tall old man with a cruel face: “When
the troops of the legal Government arrive in Petrograd, they
will shoot down these insurgents, and that will not be lynch¬
ing!” Protests all over the hall, even from his own party.

Here there was doubt and depression. The counter-revo¬
lution was being put down. The Central Committee of the
Socialist Revolutionary party had voted lack of confidence


169




in its officers; the left wing was in control; Avksentiev had
resigned. A courier reported that the Committee of Welcome
sent to meet Kerensky at the railway station had been arrest¬
ed. In the streets could be heard the dull rumble of distant
cannonading, south and south-west. Still Kerensky did not
come....

Only three newspapers were out— Pravda, Dielo Naroda and
Novaya Zhizn. All of them devoted much space to the new
“coalition” Government. The Socialist Revolutionary paper
demanded a Cabinet without either Cadets or Bolsheviki.
Gorky was hopeful; Smolny had made concessions. A purely
Socialist Government was taking shape—all elements except
the bourgeoisie. As for Pravda, it sneered:

We ridicule these coalitions with political parties whose most
prominent members are petty journalists of doubtful reputation;
our “coalition” is that of the proletariat and the revolutionary Army
with the poor peasants....

On the walls a vainglorious announcement of the VikzheL,
threatening to strike if both sides did not compromise:

The conquerors of these riots, the saviours of the wreck of our
country, these will be neither the Bolsheviki, nor the Committee
for Salvation, nor the troops of Kerensky—but we, the Union of
Railwaymen....

Red Guards are incapable of handling a complicated business
like the railways; as for the Provisional Government, it has shown
itself incapable of holding the power....

We refuse to lend our services to any party which does not act
by authority of ... a Government based on the confidence of all
the democracy....

Smolny thrilled with the boundless vitality of inexhaustible
humanity in action.

In Trade Union headquarters Lozovsky introduced me to
a delegate of the Railway Workers of the Nicolai line, who
said that the men were holding huge mass-meetings, con¬
demning the action of their leaders.

“All power to the Soviets!” he cried, pounding on the
table. “The oborontsi in the Central Committee are playing
Kornilov’s game. They tried to send a mission to the Stav-
ka, but we arrested them at Minsk.... Our branch has de¬
manded an All-Russian Convention, and they refuse to call
it....”

The same situation as in the Soviets, the Army Commit¬
tees. One after another the various democratic organisations,
all over Russia, were cracking and changing. The Co-op¬
eratives were torn by internal struggles; the meetings of the


170
















Peasants’ Executive broke up in stormy wrangling; even
among the Cossacks there was trouble....

On the top floor the Military Revolutionary Committee
was in full blast, striking and slacking not. Men went in,
fresh and vigorous; night and day and night and day they
threw themselves into the terrible machine; and came out
limp, blind with fatigue, hoarse and filthy, to fall on the
floor and sleep.... The Committee for Salvation had been
outlawed. Great piles of new proclamations«2» littered the
floor:

...The conspirators, who have no support among the garrison or
the working-class, above all counted on the suddenness of their
attack. Their plan was discovered in time by Sub-Lieutenant Bla¬
gonravov, thanks to the revolutionary vigilance of a soldier of the
Red Guard, whose name shall be made public. At the centre of the
plot was the Committee for Salvation. Colonel Polkovnikov was in
command of their forces, and the orders were signed by Gotz,
former member of the Provisional Government, allowed at liberty
on his word of honour....

Bringing these facts to the attention of the Petrograd popula¬
tion, the Military Revolutionary Committee orders the arrest of
all concerned in the conspiracy, who shall be tried before the Rev¬
olutionary Tribunal....

From Moscow, word that the yunkers and Cossacks had sur¬
rounded the Kremlin and ordered the Soviet troops to lay
down their arms. The Soviet forces complied, and as they
were leaving the Kremlin, were set upon and shot down.
Small forces of Bolsheviki had been driven from the Tele¬
phone and Telegraph offices; the yunkers now held the centre
of the city.... But all around them the Soviet troops were
mustering. Street-fighting was slowly gathering way; all at¬
tempts at compromise had failed.... On the side of the Soviet,
ten thousand garrison soldiers and a few Red Guards; on the
side of the Government, six thousand yunkers, twenty-five
hundred Cossacks and two thousand White Guards.

The Petrograd Soviet was meeting, and next door the new
Tsay-ee-kah, acting on the decrees and orders«3» which came
down in a steady stream from the Council of People’s Com¬
missars in session upstairs; on the Order in Which Laws Are
to be Ratified and Published, Establishing an Eight-hour
Day for Workers, and Lunatcharsky’s “Basis for a System of
Popular Education.” Only a few hundred people were pres¬
ent at the two meetings, most of them armed. Smolny was
almost deserted, except for the guards, who were busy at
the hall windows, setting up machine-guns to command the
flanks of the building.

In the Tsay-ee-kah a delegate of the Vikzhel was speaking:


171







“We refuse to transport the troops of either party.... We
have sent a committee to Kerensky to say that if he contin¬
ues to march on Petrograd we will break his lines of com¬
munication....”

He made the usual plea for a conference of all the So¬
cialist parties to form a new Government....

Kameniev answered discreetly. The Bolsheviki would be
very glad to attend the conference. The centre of gravity,
however, lay not in composition of such a Government, but
in its acceptance of the programme of the Congress of So¬
viets.... The Tsay-ee-kah had deliberated on the declaration
made by the Left Socialist Revolutionaries and the Social
Democrat Internationalists, and had accepted the proposition
of proportional representation at the conference, even in¬
cluding delegates from the Army Committees and the Peas¬
ants’ Soviets....

In the great hall, Trotzky recounted the events of the day.

“We offered the Vladimir ytinkers a chance to surrender,”
he said. “We wanted to settle matters without bloodshed.
But now that blood has been spilled there is only one way—
pitiless struggle. It would be childish to think we can win
by any other means.... The moment is decisive. Everybody
must co-operate with the Military Revolutionary Committee,
report where there are stores of barbed wire, benzine,
guns.... We’ve won the power; now we must keep it!”

The Menshevik Yoffe tried to read his party’s declaration,
but Trotzky refused to allow “a debate about principle.”

“Our debates are now in the streets,” he cried. “The de¬
cisive step has been taken. We all, and I in particular, take
the responsibility for what is happening....”

Soldiers from the front, from Gatchina, told their stories.
One from the Death Battalion, Four Hundred Eighty-first
Artillery: “When the trenches hear of this, they will cry,
’This is our Government!”’ A yunker from Peterhof said that
he and two others had refused to march against the Soviets;
and when his comrades had returned from the defence of
the Winter Palace they appointed him their Commissar, to go
to Smolny and offer their services to the real Revolution....

Then Trotzky again, fiery, indefatigable, giving orders,
answering questions.

“The petty bourgeoisie, in order to defeat the workers,
soldiers and peasants, would combine with the devil him¬
self!” he said once. Many cases of drunkenness had been re¬
marked the last two days. “No drinking, comrades! No one
must be on the streets after eight in the evening, except the
regular guards. All places suspected of having stores of liq¬
uor should be searched, and the liquor destroyed.«4» No mer¬
cy to the sellers of liquor....”«5»


172











The Military Revolutionary Committee sent lor the dele¬
gation from the Viborg section; then tor the members from
Putilov. They clumped out hurriedly.

“For each revolutionist killed,” said Trotzky, “we shall kill
five counter-revolutionists!”

Down-town again. The Duma brilliantly illuminated and
great crowds pouring in. In the lower hall wailing and cries
of grief; the throng surged back and forth before the bul¬
letin-board, where was posted a list of yunkers killed in the
day’s fighting—or supposed to be killed, for most of the
dead afterward turned up safe and sound.... Up in the Ale¬
xander Hall the Committee for Salvation held forth. The
gold and red epaulets of officers were conspicuous, the fa¬
miliar faces of the Menshevik and Socialist Revolutionary in¬
tellectuals, the hard eyes and bulky magnificence of bankers
and diplomats, officials of the old regime, and well-dressed
women....

The telephone girls were testifying. Girl after girl came to
the tribune—over-dressed, fashion-aping litde girls, with
pinched faces and leaky shoes. Girl after girl, flushing with
pleasure at the applause of the “nice” people of Petrograd,
of the officers, the rich, the great names of politics—girl
after girl, to narrate her suffering at the hands of the pro¬
letariat, and proclaim her loyalty to all that was old, estab¬
lished and powerful....

The Duma was again in session in the Nicolai Hall. The
Mayor said hopefully that the Petrograd regiments were
ashamed of their actions; propaganda was making head¬
way.... Emissaries came and went, reporting horrible deeds
by the Bolsheviki, interceding to save the yunkers, busily in¬
vestigating....

“The Bolsheviki,” said Trupp, “will be conquered by mo¬
ral force, and not by bayonets....”

Meanwhile all was not well on the revolutionary front.
The enemy had brought up armoured trains, mounted with
cannon. The Soviet forces, mostly raw Red Guards, were
without officers and without a definite plan. Only five thou¬
sand regular soldiers had joined them; the rest of the gar¬
rison was either busy suppressing the yiinker revolt, guarding
the city, or undecided what to do. At ten in the evening Le¬
nin addressed a meeting of delegates from the city regi¬
ments, who voted overwhelmingly to fight. A Committee of
five soldiers was elected to serve as General Staff, and in
the small hours of the morning the regiments left their bar¬
racks in full batde array.... Going home I saw them pass,
swinging along with the regular tread of veterans, bayonets
in perfect alignment, through the deserted streets of the
conquered city....


173





At the same time, in the headquarters of the Vikzhel down
on the Sadovaya, the conference of all the Socialist parties
to form a new Government was under way. Abramovitch, for
the centre Mensheviki, said that there should be neither con¬
querors nor conquered—that bygones should be bygones....
In this were agreed all the left wing parties. Dan, speaking
in the name of the right Mensheviki, proposed to the Bolshe-
viki the following conditions for a truce: the Red Guard to
be disarmed, and the Petrograd garrison to be placed at the
orders of the Duma; the troops of Kerensky not to fire a
single shot or arrest a single man; a Ministry of all the So¬
cialist parties except the Bolsheviki. For Smolny Riazanov and
Kameniev declared that a coalition ministry of all parties
was acceptable, but protested at Dan’s proposals. The Social¬
ist Revolutionaries were divided; but the Executive Commit¬
tee of the Peasants’ Soviets and the Populist Socialists flatly
refused to admit the Bolsheviki.... After bitter quarrelling a
commission was elected to draw up a workable plan....

All that night the commission wrangled, and all the next
day, and the next night. Once before, on the 9th of Novem¬
ber, there had been a similar effort at conciliation, led by
Martov and Gorky; but at the approach of Kerensky and the
activity of the Committee for Salvation, the right wing of the
Mensheviki, Socialist Revolutionaries and Populist Socialists
suddenly withdrew. Now they were awed by the crushing of
the yunker rebellion....

Monday, the 12th, was a day of suspense. The eyes of all
Russia were fixed on the grey plain beyond the gates of Pet¬
rograd, where all the available strength of the old order
faced the unorganised power of the new, the unknown. In
Moscow a truce had been declared; both sides parleyed,
awaiting the result in the capital. Now the delegates to the
Congress of Soviets, hurrying on speeding trains to the
farthest reaches of Asia, were coming to their homes, car¬
rying the fiery cross. In wide-spreading ripples news of the
miracle spread over the face of the land, and in its wake
towns, cities and far villages stirred and broke, Soviets and
Military Revolutionary Committees against Dumas, Zemstvos
and Government Commissars—Red Guards against White—
street fighting and passionate speech.... The result waited on
the word from Petrograd....

Smolny was almost empty, but the Duma was thronged
and noisy. The old Mayor, in his dignified way, was protest¬
ing against the Appeal of the Bolshevik Councillors.

“The Duma is not a centre of counter-revolution,” he said,
warmly. “The Duma takes no part in the present struggle be¬
tween the parties. But at a time when there is no legal pow¬
er in the land, the only centre of order is the Municipal


174









Self-Government. The peaceful population recognises this
fart; the foreign Embassies recognise only such documents as
are signed by the Mayor of the town. The mind of a Europe¬
an does not admit of any other situation, as the Municipal
Self-Government is the only organ which is capable of pro¬
tecting the interests of the citizens. The City is bound to
show hospitality to all organisations which desire to profit
by such hospitality, and therefore the Duma cannot prevent
the distribution of any newspapers whatever within the Du¬
ma building. The sphere of our work is increasing, and we
must be given full liberty of action, and our rights must be
respected by both parties....

“We are perfectly neutral. When the Telephone Exchange
was occupied by the yunkers Colonel Polkovnikov ordered
the telephones to Smolny disconnected, but I protested, and
the telephones were kept going....”

At this there was ironic laughter from the Bolshevik
benches, and imprecations from the right.

“And yet,” went on Schreider, “they look upon us as
counter-revolutionaries and report us to the population.
They deprive us of our means of transport by taking away
our last motor-cars. It will not be our fault if there is famine
in the town. Protests are of no use... ”

Kobozev, Bolshevik member of the Town Board, was
doubtful whether the Military Revolutionary Committee had
requisitioned the Municipal automobiles. Even granting the
fact, it was probably done by some unauthorised individual
in the emergency.

“The Mayor,” he continued, “tells us that we must not
make political meetings out of the Duma. But every Menshe¬
vik and Socialist Revolutionary here talks nothing but par¬
ty propaganda, and at the door they distribute their illegal
newspapers, Iskri (Sparks), Soldatski Golos and Rabolchaya Ga-
zeta, inciting to insurrection. What if we Bolsheviki should
also begin to distribute our papers here? But this shall not
be, for we respect the Duma. We have not attacked the Mu¬
nicipal Self-Government, and we shall not do so. But you
have addressed an Appeal to the population, and we are en¬
titled also to do so....”

Followed him Shingariov, Cadet, who said that there could
be no common language with those who were liable to be
brought before the Attorney General for indictment, and
who must be tried on the charge of treason.... He proposed
again that all Bolshevik members should be expelled from
the Duma. This was tabled, however, for there were no per¬
sonal charges against the members, and they were active in
the Municipal administration.

Then two Mensheviki Internationalists, declaring that the


175












Appeal of the Bolshevik Councillors was a direct incitement
to massacre. “If everything that is against the Bolsheviki is
counter-revolutionary,” said Pinkevitch, “then I do not know
the difference between revolution and anarchy.... The Bol¬
sheviki are depending upon the passions of the unbridled
masses; we have nothing but moral force. We will protest
against massacres and violence from both sides, as our task
is to find a peaceful issue.”

“The notice posted in the streets under the heading ‘To
the Pillory,’ which calls upon the people to destroy the Men-
sheviki and Socialist Revolutionaries,” said Nazariev, “is a
crime which you, Bolsheviki, will not be able to wash away.
Yesterday’s horrors are but a preface to what you are pre¬
paring by such a proclamation.... I have always tried to re¬
concile you with the other parties, but at present I feel for
you nothing but contempt!”

The Bolshevik Councillors were on their feet, shouting an¬
grily, assailed by hoarse, hateful voices and waving arms....

Outside the hall I ran into the City Engineer, the Men¬
shevik Gomberg, and three or four reporters. They were all
in high spirits.

“See!” they said. “The cowards are afraid of us. They
don’t dare arrest the Duma! Their Military Revolutionary
Committee doesn’t care to send a Commissar into this build¬
ing. Why, on the corner of the Sadovaya to-day, I saw a Red
Guard try to stop a boy selling Soldatski Golos.... The boy
just laughed at him, and a crowd of people wanted to lynch
the bandit. It’s only a few hours more, now. Even if Keren¬
sky wouldn’t come they haven’t the men to run a Govern¬
ment. Absurd! I understand they’re even fighting among
themselves at Smolny!”

A Socialist Revolutionary friend of mine drew me aside.
“I know where the Committee for Salvation is hiding,” he
said. “Do you want to go and talk with them?”

By this time it was dusk. The city had again settled
down to normal — shop-shutters up, lights shining, and on
the streets great crowds of people slowly moving up and
down and arguing....

At Number 86 Nevsky we went through a passage into a
courtyard, surrounded by tall apartment buildings. At the
door of apartment 229 my friend knocked in a peculiar way.
There was a sound of scuffling; an inside door slammed;
then the front door opened a crack and a woman’s face ap¬
peared. After a minute’s observation she led us in—a placid-
looking, middle-aged lady who at once cried, “Kyril, it’s all
right!” In the dining-room, where a samovar steamed on the
table and there were plates full of bread and raw fish, a man
in uniform emerged from behind the window-curtains, and


176








Red Guards from Putilov Works on the armoured car named after
Lieutenant Schmidt, October 1917






















another, dressed like a workman, from a closet. They were
delighted to meet an American reporter. With a certain
amount of gusto both said that they would certainly be shot
if the Bolsheviki caught them. They would not give me their
names, but both were Socialist Revolutionaries....

“Why,” I asked, “do you publish such lies in your news¬
papers?”

Without taking offence the officer replied, “Yes, I know;
but what can we do?” He shrugged. “You must admit that it
is necessary for us to create a certain frame of mind in the
people....”

The other man interrupted, “This is merely an adventure
on the part of the Bolsheviki. They have no intellectuals....
The Ministries won’t work.... Russia is not a city, but a whole
country.... Realising that they can only last a few days, we
have decided to come to the aid of the strongest force op¬
posed to them — Kerensky—and help to restore order.”

“That is all very well,” I said. “But why do you combine
with the Cadets?”

The pseudo-workman smiled frankly. “To tell you the
truth, at this moment the masses of the people are follow¬
ing the Bolsheviki. We have no following—now. We can’t
mobilise a handful of soldiers. There are no arms avail¬
able.... The Bolsheviki are right to a certain extent; there are
at this moment in Russia only two parties with any force—
the Bolsheviki and the reactionaries, who are all hiding
under the coat-tails of the Cadets. The Cadets think they
are using us; but it is really we who are using the Cadets.
When we smash the Bolsheviki we shall turn against the Ca¬
dets....”

“Will the Bolsheviki be admitted into the new Govern¬
ment?”

He scratched his head. “That’s a problem,” he admitted.
“Of course if they are not admitted, they’ll probably do this
all over again. At any rate, they will have a chance to hold
the balance of power in the Constituent—that is, if there is
a Constituent.”

“And then, too,” said the officer, “that brings up the
question of admitting the Cadets into the new Government—
and for the same reasons. You know the Cadets do not really
want the Constituent Assembly — not if the Bolsheviki can be
destroyed now.” He shook his head. “It is not easy for us
Russians, politics. You Americans are born politicians; you
have had politics all your lives. But for us—well, it has only
been a year, you know!”

“What do you think of Kerensky?” I asked.

“Oh, Kerensky is guilty of the sins of the Provisional Gov¬
ernment,” answered the other man. “Kerensky himself


12-253


177







forced us to accept coalition with the bourgeoisie. If he had
resigned as he threatened, it would have meant a new Cabi¬
net crisis only sixteen weeks before the Constituent Assem¬
bly, and that we wanted to avoid.”

“But didn’t it amount to that anyway?”

“Yes, but how were we to know? They tricked us—the Ke-
renskys and Avksentievs. Gotz is a little more radical. I
stand with Tchernov, who is a real revolutionist.... Why,
only to-day Lenin sent word that he would not object to
Tchernov entering the Government.

“We wanted to get rid of the Kerensky Government too,
but we thought it better to wait for the Constituent.... At the
beginning of this affair I was with the Bolsheviki, but the
Central Committee of my party voted unanimously against
it—and what could I do? It was a matter of party disci¬
pline....

“In a week the Bolshevik Government will go to pieces;
if the Socialist Revolutionaries could only stand aside and
wait, the Government would fall into their hands. But if we
wait a week the country will be so disorganised that the Ger¬
man imperialists will be victorious. That is why we began
our revolt with only two regiments of soldiers promising to
support us—and they turned against us.... That left only the
yunkers...."

“How about the Cossacks?”

The officer sighed. “They did not move. At first they said
they would come out if they had infantry support. They
said moreover that they had their men with Kerensky, and
that they were doing their part.... Then, too, they said that
the Cossacks were always accused of being the hereditary
enemies of democracy.... And finally, ‘The Bolsheviki prom¬
ise that they will not take away our land. There is no clanger
to us. We remain neutral.’”

During this talk people were constantly entering and
leaving—most of them officers, their shoulder-straps torn
off. We could see them in the hall, and hear their low, ve¬
hement voices. Occasionally, through the half-drawn por¬
tieres, we caught a glimpse of a door opening into a bath¬
room, where a heavily-built officer in a colonel’s uniform
sat on the toilet, writing something on a pad held in his lap.
I recognised Colonel Polkovnikov, former commandant of
Petrograd, for whose arrest the Military Revolutionary Com¬
mittee would have paid a fortune.

“Our programme?” said the officer. “This is it. Land to
be turned over to the Land Committees. Workmen to have
full representation in the control of industry. An energet¬
ic peace programme, but not an ultimatum to the world
such as the Bolsheviki issued. The Bolsheviki cannot keep


178






their promises to the masses, even in the country itself. We
won’t let them.... They stole our land programme in order
to get the support of the peasants. That is dishonest. If they
had waited tor the Constituent Assembly—”

“It doesn’t matter about the Constituent Assembly!” broke
in the other. “If the Bolsheviki want to establish a Social¬
ist state here, we cannot work with them in any event! Ke¬
rensky made the great mistake. He let the Bolsheviki know
what he was going to do by announcing in the Council of the
Republic that he had ordered their arrest....”

“But what,” I said, “do you intend to do now?”

The two men looked at one another. “You will see in a
few days. If there are enough troops from the front on our
side, we shall not compromise with the Bolsheviki. If not,
perhaps we shall be forced to....”

Out again on the Nevsky we swung on the step of a street¬
car bulging with people, its platform bent down from the
weight and scraping along the ground, which crawled with
agonising slowness the long miles to Smolny.

Meshkovsky, a neat, frail little man, was coming down the
hall, looking worried. The strikes in the Ministries, he told
us, were having their effect. For instance, the Council of
People’s Commissars had promised to publish the Secret
Treaties; but Neratov, the functionary in charge, had disap¬
peared, taking the documents with him. They were supposed
to be hidden in the British Embassy....

Worst of all, however, was the strike in the banks. “With¬
out money,” said Menzhinsky, “we are helpless. The wages
of the railroad men, of the postal and telegraph employees,
must be paid.... The banks are closed; and the key to the
situation, the State Bank, is also shut. All the bank-clerks in
Russia have been bribed to stop work....

“But Lenin has issued an order to dynamite the State
Bank vaults, and there is a Decree just out, ordering the
private banks to open to-morrow, or we will open them our¬
selves!”

The Petrograd Soviet was in full swing, thronged with
armed men, Trotzky reporting:

“The Cossacks are falling back from Krasnoye Selo.”
(Sharp, exultant cheering.) “But the battle is only beginning.
At Pulkovo heavy fighting is going on. All available forces
must be hurried there....

“From Moscow, bad news. The Kremlin is in the hands
of the junkers, and the workers have only a few arms. The
result depends upon Petrograd.

“At the front, the decrees on Peace and Land are pro¬
voking great enthusiasm. Kerensky is flooding the trenches
with tales of Petrograd burning and bloody, of women and

179

12 *






children massacred by the Bolsheviki. But no one believes
him....

“The cruisers Oleg, Avrora and Respublica are anchored in
the Neva, their guns trained on the approaches to the
city....”

“Why aren’t you out there with the Red Guards?” shout¬
ed a rough voice.

“I’m going now!” answered Trotzky, and left the platform.
His face a little paler than usual, he passed down the side
of the room, surrounded by eager friends, and hurried out
to the waiting automobile.

Kameniev now spoke, describing the proceedings of the
reconciliation conference. The armistice conditions proposed
by the Mensheviki, he said, had been contemptuously reject¬
ed. Even the branches of the Railwaymen’s Union had voted
against such a proposition....

“Now that we’ve won the power and are sweeping all
Russia,” he declared, “all they ask of us are three little
things: 1. To surrender the power. 2. To make the soldiers
continue the war. 3. To make the peasants forget about the
land....”

Lenin appeared for a moment, to answer the accusations
of the Socialist Revolutionaries:

“They charge us with stealing their land programme....
If that is so, we bow to them. It is good enough tor us....”

So the meeting roared on, leader after leader explaining,
exhorting, arguing, soldier after soldier, workman after
workman, standing up to speak his mind and his heart....
The audience flowed, changing and renewed continually.
From time to time men came in, yelling for the members of
such and such a detachment, to go to the front; others, re¬
lieved, wounded, or coming to Smolny for arms and equip¬
ment, poured in....

It was almost three o’clock in the morning when, as we
left the hall, Holtzman, of the Military Revolutionary Com¬
mittee, came running down the hall with a transfigured face.

“It’s all right!” he shouted, grabbing my hands. “Tele¬
gram from the front. Kerensky is smashed! Look at this!”

He held out a sheet of paper, scribbled hurriedly in pen¬
cil, and then, seeing we couldn’t read it, he declaimed aloud:

Pulkovo. Staff. 2:10 A.M.

The night of October 30th to 31st 1 will go down in history. The
attempt of Kerensky to move counter-revolutionary troops against


•These dates are given according to the Old Calendar, 13 days behind
the Western Calendar, which was only introduced later. The date according
to our calendar was November 12th—13th. Lower down, as we see, an Order
of the Day was dated in the new style.


180












the capital of the Revolution has been decisively repulsed. Keren¬
sky is retreating, we are advancing. The soldiers, sailors and work¬
ers of Petrograd have shown that they can and will with arms in
their hands enforce the will and authority of the democracy. The
bourgeoisie tried to isolate the revolutionary army. Kerensky at¬
tempted to break it by the force of the Cossacks. Both plans met
a pitiful defeat.

The grand idea of the domination of the worker and peasant
democracy closed the ranks of the army and hardened its will.
All the country from now on will be convinced that the Power of
the Soviets is no ephemeral thing, but an invincible fact.... The
repulse of Kerensky is the repulse of the land-owners, the bour¬
geoisie and the Kornilovists in general. The repulse of Kerensky is
the confirmation of the right of the people to a peaceful free life, to
land, bread and power. The Pulkovo detachment by its valorous
blow has strengthened the cause of the Workers’ and Peasants’ Rev¬
olution. There is no return to the past. Before us are struggles,
obstacles and sacrifices. But the road is clear and victory is cer¬
tain.

Revolutionary Russia and the Soviet Power can be proud of their
Pulkovo detachment, acting under the command of Colonel Wal¬
den. Eternal memory to those who fell! Glory to the warriors of
the Revolution, the soldiers and the officers who were faithful to
the People!

Long live revolutionary, popular, Socialist Russia!

In the name of the Council,

L. Trotzky, People’s Commissar....

Driving home across Znamensky Square, we made out an
unusual crowd in front of the Nicolai Railway Station. Sev¬
eral thousand sailors were massed there, bristling with rifles.

Standing on the steps, a member of the Vikzhel was plead¬
ing with them.

“Comrades, we cannot carry you to Moscow. We are neu¬
tral. We do not carry troops for either side. We cannot take
you to Moscow, where already there is terrible civil war....”

All the seething Square roared at him; the sailors began
to surge forward. Suddenly another door was flung wide; in
it stood two or three brakemen, a fireman or so.

“This way, comrades!” cried one. “We will take you to
Moscow—or Vladivostok, if you like! Long live the Revolu¬
tion!”






Chapter IX
VICTORY


Order Number 1

To the Troops of the Pulkovo Detachment.

November 13th, 1917. 38 minutes past 9 A.M.

After a cruel fight the troops of the Pulkovo detachment com¬
pletely routed the counter-revolutionary forces, who retreated from
their positions in disorder, and under cover of Tsarskoye Selo
fell back toward Pavlovskoye II and Gatchina.

Our advanced units occupied the north-eastern extremity of
Tsarskoye Selo and the station Alexandrovskaya. The Colpinno de¬
tachment was on our left, the Krasnoye Selo detachment to our
right.

I ordered the Pulkovo forces to occupy Tsarskoye Selo, to
fortify its approaches, especially on the side of Gatchina.

Also to pass and occupy Pavlovskoye, fortifying its southern
side, and to take up the railroad as far as Dno.

The troops must take all measures to strengthen the positions
occupied by them, arranging trenches and other defensive works.

They must enter into close liaison with the detachments of Col¬
pinno and Krasnoye Selo, and also with the Staff of the Comman-
der-in-Chief for the Defence of Petrograd.

Signed,

Commander-in-Chief over all Forces acting against
the Counter-revolutionary Troops of Kerensky,
Lieutenant-Colonel Muraviov.

Tuesday morning. But how is this? Only two days ago the
Petrograd campagna was full of leaderless bands, wandering
aimlessly; without food, without artillery, without a plan.
What had fused that disorganised mass of undisciplined Red
Guards, and soldiers without officers, into an army obedient
to its own elected high command, tempered to meet and
break the assault of cannon and Cossacks cavalry?* 1».

People in revolt have a way of defying military precedent.
The ragged armies of the French Revolution are not for-


182












gotten — Valmy and the Lines of Weissembourg. 1 Massed
against the Soviet forces were yunkers, Cossacks, land-
owners, nobility. Black Hundreds—the Tsar come again,
Okhrana and Siberian chains; and the vast and terrible men¬
ace of the Germans.... Victory, in the words of Carlyle,
meant “Apotheosis and Millennium without end!”

Sunday night, the Commissars of the Military Revolution¬
ary Committee returning desperately from the field, the
garrison of Petrograd elected its Committee of Five, its
Battle Staff, three soldiers and two officers, all certified free
from counter-revolutionary taint. Colonel Muraviov, ex¬
patriot, was in command—an efficient man, but to be care¬
fully watched. 2 At Colpinno, at Obukhovo, at Pulkovo and
Krasnoye Selo were formed provisional detachments, in¬
creased in size as the stragglers came in from the surround¬
ing country—mixed soldiers, sailors and Red Guards, parts
of regiments, infantry, cavalry and artillery all together, and
a few armoured cars.

Day broke, and the pickets of Kerensky’s Cossacks came in
touch. Scattered rifle-fire, summons to surrender. Over the
bleak plain on the cold quiet air spread the sound of battle,
falling upon the ears of roving bands as they gathered about
their little fires, waiting.... So it was beginning! They made
toward the battle; and the worker hordes pouring out along
the straight roads quickened their pace.... Thus upon all
the points of attack automatically converged angry human
swarms, to be met by Commissars and assigned positions, or
work to do. This was their batde, for their world; the officers
in command were elected by them. For the moment that in¬
coherent multiple will was one will....

Those who participated in the fighting described to me
how the sailors fought until they ran out of cartridges, and
then stormed; how the untrained workmen rushed the.
charging Cossacks and tore them from their horses; how
the anonymous hordes of the people, gathering in the dark¬
ness around the batde, rose like a tide and poured over the
enemy.... Before midnight of Monday the Cossacks broke
and were fleeing, leaving their artillery behind them, and
the army of the proletariat, on a long ragged front, moved

1 In the historic battle of Valmy on September 20, 1792, the volunteer
detachments of the French revolutionary army defeated the Prussian
troops advancing on Paris and forced them to retreat. In the battle of Weis¬
sembourg in 1794 the French revolutionary troops commanded in fact by
Saint-Just smashed the Austrian army and hurled it back from the border
of France. — Ed.

2 Muraviov had no firm political convictions. Before siding with the So¬
viets he supported the slogan of War till Victory. During the Kornilov
mutiny he banded with tne left Socialist Revolutionaries. Subsequently
he went over to the enemies of Soviet power. — Ed.


183





forward and rolled into Tsarskoye, before the enemy had a
chance to destroy the great Government wireless station,
from which now the Commissars of Smolny were hurling out
to the world paeans of triumph....

To All Soviets of Workers’ and Soldiers’ Deputies
The 12th of November, in a bloody combat near Tsarskoye Selo,
the revolutionary army defeated the counter-revolutionary troops
of Kerensky and Kornilov. In the name of the Revolutionary Gov¬
ernment I order all regiments to take the offensive against the
enemies of the revolutionary democracy, and to take all measures
to arrest Kerensky, and also to oppose any adventure which might
menace the conquests of the Revolution and the victory of the
proletariat.

Long live the Revolutionary Army!

Muraviov.


News from the provinces....

At Sevastopol the local Soviet had assumed the power;
a huge meeting of the sailors on the battleships in the har¬
bour had forced their officers to line up and swear allegiance
to the new Government. At Nizhni Novgorod the Soviet was
in control. From Kazan came reports of a battle in the
streets, yunkers and a brigade of artillery against the Bol¬
shevik garrison....

Desperate fighting had broken out again in Moscow. The
yunkers and White Guards held the Kremlin and the centre
of the town, beaten upon from all sides by the troops of
the Military Revolutionary Committee. The Soviet artillery
was stationed in Skobeliev Square, bombarding the City
Duma building, the Prefecture and the Hotel Metropole.
The cobblestones of the Tverskaya and Nikitskaya had been
torn up for trenches and barricades. A hail of machine-gun
fire swept the quarters of the great banks and commercial
houses. There were no lights, no telephones; the bour¬
geois population lived in the cellars.... The last bulletin said
that the Military Revolutionary Committee had delivered an
ultimatum to the Committee of Public Safety, 1 demanding
the immediate surrender of the Kremlin, or bombardment
would follow.

“Bombard the Kremlin?” cried the ordinary citizen. “They
dare not!”

From Vologda to Chita in far Siberia, from Pskov to Se¬
vastopol on the Black Sea, in great cities and little villages,
civil war burst into flame. From thousands of factories, peas-


■The Committee of Public Safety, the main centre of counter-revolution
in Moscow in November 1917.— Ed.


184











ant communes, regiments and armies, ships on the wide sea,
greetings poured into Petrograd—greetings to the Govern¬
ment of the people.

The Cossack Government at Novotcherkask telegraphed
to Kerensky, “ The Government of the Cossack troops invites
the Provisional Government and the members of the Council
of the Republic to come, if possible, to Novotcherkask, where
we can organise in common the struggle against the Bolshe-
viki.”

In Finland, also, things were stirring. The Soviet of Hel¬
singfors and the Tsentrobalt (Central Committee of the Baltic
Fleet), jointly proclaimed a state of siege, and declared that
all attempts to interfere with the Bolshevik forces, and all
armed resistance to its orders, would be severely repressed.
At the same time the Finnish Railway Union called a coun¬
try-wide general strike, to put into operation the laws passed
by the Socialist Diet of June, 1917, dissolved by Keren¬
sky....

Early in the morning I went out to Smolny. Going up the
long wooden sidewalk from the outer gate I saw the first
thin, hesitating snow-flakes fluttering down from the grey,
windless sky. “Snow!” cried the soldier at the door, grinning
with delight. “Good for the health!” Inside, the long, gloomy
halls and bleak rooms seemed deserted. No one moved in all
the enormous pile. A deep, uneasy sound came to my ears,
and looking around, I noticed that everywhere on the floor,
along the walls, men were sleeping. Rough, dirty men,
workers and soldiers, spattered and caked with mud,
sprawled alone or in heaps, in the careless attitudes of death.
Some wore ragged bandages marked with blood. Guns and
cartridge-belts were scattered about.... The victorious proleta¬
rian army!

In the upstairs buffet so thick they lay that one could
hardly walk. The air was foul. Through the clouded windows
a pale light streamed. A battered samovar, cold, stood on
the counter, and many glasses holding dregs of tea. Beside
them lay a copy of the Military Revolutionary Committee’s
last bulletin, upside down, scrawled with painful hand¬
writing. It was a memorial written by some soldier to his
comrades fallen in the fight against Kerensky, just as he
had set it down before falling on the floor to sleep. The
writing was blurred with what looked like tears....

Alexei Vinogradov

D. Maskvin

S. Stolbikov

A. Voskressensky

D. Leonsky


185






D. Preobrazhensky
V. Laidansky
M. Berchikov

These men were drafted into the Army on November 15th, 1916.
Only three are left of the above.

Mikhail Berchikov
Alexei Voskressensky
Dmitri Leonsky


Sleep, warrior eagles, sleep with peaceful soul.

You have deserved, our own ones, happiness and

Eternal peace. Under the earth of the grave

You have straitly closed your ranks. Sleep, Citizens!


Only the Military Revolutionary Committee still func¬
tioned, unsleeping. Skripnik, emerging from the inner room,
said that Gotz had been arrested, but had flatly denied sign¬
ing the proclamation of the Committee for Salvation, as had
Avksentiev; and the Committee for Salvation itself had re¬
pudiated the Appeal to the garrison. There was still disaf¬
fection among the city regiments, Skripnik reported;
the Volhynsky Regiment had refused to fight against Keren¬
sky.

Several detachments of “neutral” troops, with Tchernov
at their head, were at Gatchina, trying to persuade Kerensky
to halt his attack on Petrograd.

Skripnik laughed. “There can be no ’neutrals’ now,” he
said. “We’ve won!” His sharp, bearded face glowed with an
almost religious exaltation. “More than sixty delegates have
arrived from the front, with assurances of support by all
the armies except the troops on the Rumanian front, who
have not been heard from. The Army Committees have sup¬
pressed all news from Petrograd, but we now have a regular
system of couriers....”

Down in the front hall Kameniev was just entering, worn
out by the all-night session of the Conference to Form a
New Government, but happy. “Already the Socialist Revolu¬
tionaries are inclined to admit us into the new Government,”
he told me. “The right wing groups are frightened by the
Revolutionary Tribunals; they demand, in a sort of panic,
that we dissolve them before going any further.... We have
accepted the proposition of the Vikzhel to form a homogene¬
ous Socialist Ministry, and they’re working on that now. You
see, it all springs from our victory. When we were down,
they wouldn’t have us at any price; now everybody’s in
favour of some agreement with the Soviets.... What we need
is a really decisive victory. Kerensky wants an armistice, but
he’ll have to surrender....”«2»


186







That was the temper of the Bolshevik leaders. 1 To a
foreign journalist who asked Trotzky what statement he had
to make to the world, Trotzky replied: “At this moment
the only statement possible is the one we are making through
the mouths of our cannon!”

But there was an undercurrent of real anxiety in the tide
of victory: the question of finances. Instead of opening the
banks, as had been ordered by the Military Revolutionary
Committee, the Union of Bank Employees had held a
meeting and declared a formal strike. Smolny had demanded
some thirty-five million roubles from the State Bank, and
the cashier had locked the vaults, only paying out money to
the representatives of the Provisional Government. The reac¬
tionaries were using the State Bank as a political weapon.
For instance, when the Vikzhel demanded money to pay the
salaries of the employees of the Government railroads, it
was told to apply to Smolny....

I went to the State Bank to see the new Commissar, a red-
haired Ukrainian Bolshevik named Petrovitch. He was trying
to bring order out of the chaos in which affairs had been
left by the striking clerks. In all the offices of the huge
place perspiring volunteer workers, soldiers and sailors,
their tongues sticking out of their mouths in the intensity
of their effort, were poring over the great ledgers with a
bewildered air....

The Duma building was crowded. There were still isolated
cases of defiance toward the new Government, but they were
rare. The Central Land Committee had appealed to the
Peasants, ordering them not to recognise the Land Decree
passed by the Congress of the Soviets, because it would cause
confusion and civil war. Mayor Schreider announced that be¬
cause of the Bolshevik insurrection, the elections to the Con-


1 On November 11, the Vikzhel (All-Russia Executive Committee of the
Trade Union of Railwaymen), which, after the November Revolution, be¬
came a major centre of anti-Soviet activity, passed a resolution demand¬
ing a government of “all Socialist parties.” The negotiations with Vikzhel,
as Lenin and the Central Committee conceived them, were to serve as “a
diplomatic screen for war.” But Kameniev and Sokolnikov, who represented
the Bolsheviks in these negotiations, acted against the instructions of Le¬
nin and the Central Committee by complying with Vikzhel demands and
agreeing to include in the government representatives of the counter-revo¬
lutionary Menshevik and Socialist Revolutionary parties.

On November 15 the Central Committee, on Lenin’s proposal, adopted a
resolution rejecting agreement with these parties; the resolution stressed
that “without betraying the slogan of Soviet power it is impossible to re¬
nounce a purely Bolshevik government” since the All-Russia Congress of So¬
viets entrusted power in the country to this government. Thus the words
of Kameniev quoted here by Reed express the sentiments not of all Bolshe¬
viks, but of that small opportunist group within the Central Committee
which considered a socialist revolution in Russia impossible. — Ed.


187




stituent Assembly would have to be indefinitely postponed.
Two questions seemed to be uppermost in all minds, shocked
by the ferocity of the civil war; first, a truce to the blood-
shed«3»—second, the creation of a new Government. There
was no longer any talk of “destroying the Bolsheviki”—and
very little about excluding them from the Government, except
from the Populist Socialists and the Peasants’ Soviets. Even
the Central Army Committee at the Stavka, the most deter¬
mined enemy of Smolny, telephoned from Moghilev: “If, to
constitute the new Ministry, it is necessary to come to an
understanding with the Bolsheviki, we agree to admit them
in a minority to the Cabinet.”

Pravda, ironically falling attention to Kerensky’s “humani¬
tarian sentiments,” published his despatch to the Committee
for Salvation:

In accord with the proposals of the Committee for Salvation
and all the democratic organisations united around it, I have halted
all military action against the rebels. A delegate of the Commit¬
tee has been sent to enter into negotiations. Take all measures
to stop the useless shedding of blood.

The Vikzhel sent a telegram to all Russia:

The Conference of the Union of Railway Workers with the re¬
presentatives of both the belligerent parties, who admit the necessity
of an agreement, protest energetically against the use of political
terrorism in the civil war, especially when it is carried on between
different factions of the revolutionary democracy, and declare that
political terrorism, in whatever form, is in contradiction to the
very idea of the negotiations for a new Government....

Delegations from the Conference 1 were sent to the Front,
to Gatchina. In the Conference itself everything seemed on
the point of final settlement. It had even been decided to
elect a Provisional People’s Council, composed of about four
hundred members—seventy-five representing Smolny,
seventy-five the old Tsay-ee-kah, and the rest split up among
the Town Dumas, the Trade Unions, Land Committees and
political parties. Tchernov was mentioned as the new Pre¬
mier. Lenin and Trotzky, rumour said, were to be exclud¬
ed....

About noon I was again in front of Smolny, talking with
the driver of an ambulance bound for the revolutionary
front. Could I go with him? Certainly! He was a volunteer,


•The reference is to the “Reconciliation Conference”, a Conference to
Form a New Government.— Ed.


188






a University student, and as we rolled down the street
shouted over his shoulder to me phrases of execrable Ger¬
man: “ Also, gut! Wir nach die Kasemen zu essen gehenV' 1
I made out that there would be lunch at some barracks.

On the Kirotchnaya we turned into an immense court-yard
surrounded by military buildings, and mounted a dark stair¬
way to a low room lit by one window. At a long wooden table
were seated some twenty soldiers, eating shtchi (cabbage soup)
from a great tin wash-tub with wooden spoons, and talking
loudly with much laughter.

“Welcome to the Battalion Committee of the Sixth Reserve
Engineers’ Battalion!” cried my friend, and introduced me as
an American Socialist. Whereat every one rose to shake my
hand, and one old soldier put his arms around me and gave
me a hearty kiss. A wooden spoon was produced and I took
my place at the table. Another tub, full of kasha, was brought
in, a huge loaf of black bread, and of course the inevitable
tea-pots. At once every one began asking me questions about
America: Was it true that people in a free country sold their
votes for money ? If so, how did they get what they wanted?
How about this “Tammany” 2 ? Was it true that in a free
country a little group of people could control a whole city,
and exploited it for their personal benefit? Why did the
people stand it? Even under the Tsar such things could not
happen in Russia; true, here there was always graft, but to
buy and sell a whole city full of people! And in a free coun¬
try! Had the people no revolutionary feeling? I tried to ex¬
plain that in my country people tried to change things by
law.

“Of course,” nodded a young sergeant, named Baklanov,
who spoke French. “But you have a highly developed capi¬
talist class? Then the capitalist class must control the legis¬
latures and the courts. How then can the people change
things? I am open to conviction, for I do not Know your
country; but to me it is incredible....”

I said that I was going to Tsarskoye Selo. “I, too,” said
Baklanov, suddenly. “And I—and I—” The whole roomful
decided on the spot to go to Tsarskoye Selo.

Just then came a knock on the door. It opened, and in
it stood the figure of the Colonel. No one rose, but all shout¬
ed a greeting. “May I come in?” asked the Colonel. “ Prosim !
Prosim !” they answered heartily. He entered, smiling, a tall,
distinguished figure in a goat-skin cape embroidered with


■The approximate meaning of the sentence is “So well, we shall go and
eat at the barracks.”— Ed.

Tammany Hall, headquarters of the American Democratic Party in New
York, became a synonym of corruption and crime after scandalous dis¬
closures made at that time.— Ed.


189









gold. “I think I heard you say that you were going to Tsar-
skoye Selo, comrades,” he said. “Could I go with you?”

Baklanov considered. “I do not think there is anything to
be done here today,” he answered. “Yes, comrade, we shall
be very glad to have you.” The Colonel thanked him and
sat down, filling a glass of tea.

In a low voice, for fear of wounding the Colonel’s pride,
Baklanov explained to me, “You see, I am the chairman of
the Committee. We control the Battalion absolutely, except
in action, when the Colonel is delegated by us to command.
In action his orders must be obeyed, but he is strictly re¬
sponsible to us. In barracks he must ask our permission
before taking any action.... You might call him our Executive
Officer....”

Arms were distributed to us, revolvers and rifles—“we
might meet some Cossacks, you know”—and we all piled into
the ambulance, together with three great bundles of news¬
papers for the front. Straight down the Liteiny we rattled,
and along the Zagorodny Prospekt. Next to me sat a youth
with the shoulder-straps of a Lieutenant, who seemed to
speak all European languages with equal fluency. He was
a member of the Battalion Committee.

“I am not a Bolshevik,” he assured me, emphatically. “My
family is a very ancient and noble one. I, myself, am, you
might say, a Cadet....”

“But how—?” I began, bewildered.

“Oh, yes, I am a member of the Committee. I make no
secret of my political opinions, but the others do not mind,
because they know I do not believe in opposing the will of
the majority.... I have refused to take any action in the
present civil war, however, for I do not believe in taking up
arms against my brother Russians....”

“Provocator! Kornilovitz!” the other cried at him gaily,
slapping him on the shoulder....

Passing under the huge grey stone archway of the Mos-
kovsky Gate, covered with golden hieroglyphics, ponderous
Imperial eagles and the names of Tsars, we sped out on
the wide straight highway, grey with the first light fall of
snow. It was thronged with Red Guards, stumbling along on
foot toward the revolutionary front, shouting and singing;
and others, grey-faced and muddy, coming back. Most of
them seemed to be mere boys. Women with spades, some
with rifles and bandoliers, others wearing the Red Cross
on their arm-bands—the bowed, toil-worn women of the
slums. Squads of soldiers marching out of step, with an af¬
fectionate jeer for the Red Guards; sailors, grim-looking;
children with bundles of food for their fathers and mothers;
all these, coming and going, trudged through the whitened


190






mud that covered the cobbles of the highway inches deep.
We passed cannon, jingling southward with their caissons;
trucks bound both ways, bristling with armed men; ambu¬
lances full of wounded from the direction of the battle, and
once a peasant cart, creaking slowly along, in which sat a
white-faced boy bent over his shattered stomach and scream¬
ing monotonously. In the fields on either side women and
old men were digging trenches and stringing barbed wire
entanglements.

Back northward the clouds rolled away dramatically, and
the pale sun came out. Across the flat, marshy plain Petro-
grad glittered. To the right, white and gilded and coloured
bulbs and pinnacles; to the left, tall chimneys, some pouring
out black smoke; and beyond, a lowering sky over Finland.
On each side of us were churches, monasteries.... Occasional¬
ly a monk was visible, silently watching the pulse of the pro¬
letarian army throbbing on the road.

At Pulkovo the road divided, and there we halted in the
midst of a great crowd, where the human streams poured
from three directions, friends meeting, excited and con¬
gratulatory, describing the battle to one another. A row of
houses facing the cross-roads was marked with bullets, and
the earth was trampled into mud half a mile around. The
fighting had been furious here.... In the near distance rider¬
less Cossack horses circled hungrily, for the grass of the plain
had died long ago. Right in front of us an awkward Red
Guard was trying to ride one, falling off again and again,
to the child-like delight of a thousand rough men.

The left road, along which the remnants of the Cossacks
had retreated, led up a little hill to a hamlet, where there
was a glorious view of the immense plain, grey as a wind¬
less sea, tumultuous clouds towering over, and the imperial
city disgorging its thousands along all the roads. Far over
to the left lay the little hill of Krasnoye Selo, the parade-
ground of the Imperial Guards’ summer camp, and the Im¬
perial Dairy. In the middle distance nothing broke the flat
monotony but a few walled monasteries and convents, some
isolated factories, and several large buildings with unkempt
grounds that were asylums and orphanages....

“Here,” said the driver, as we went on over a barren hill,
“here was where Vera Slutskaya died. Yes, the Bolshevik
member of the Duma. It happened early this morning. She
was in an automobile, with Zalkind and another man. There
was a truce, and they started for the front trenches. They
were talking and laughing, when all of a sudden, from the
armoured train in which Kerensky himself was riding, some¬
body saw the automobile and tired a cannon. The shell
struck Vera Slutskaya and killed her....”


191






And so we came into Tsarskoye, all bustling with the
swaggering heroes of the proletarian horde. Now the palace
where the Soviet had met was a busy place. Red Guards and
sailors filled the court-yard, sentries stood at the doors, and
a stream of couriers and Commissars pushed in and out. In
the Soviet room a samovar had been set up, and fifty or
more workers, soldiers, sailors and officers stood around,
drinking tea and talking at the top of their voices. In one
corner two clumsy-handed workingmen were trying to make
a multi-graphing machine go. At the centre table, the huge
Dybenko bent over a map, marking out positions for the
troops with red and blue pencils. In his free hand he carried,
as always, the enormous blue-steel revolver. Anon he sat
himself down at a typewriter and pounded away with one
finger; every little while he would pause, pick up the re¬
volver, and lovingly spin the chamber.

A couch lay along the wall, and on this was stretched a
young workman. Two Red Guards were bending over him,
but the rest of the company did not pay any attention. In
his breast was a hole; through his clotnes fresh blood came
welling up with every heart-heat. His eyes were closed, and
his young, bearded face was greenish-white. Faintly and
slowly he still breathed, with every breath sighing, “ Mir
bouditl Mir bouditl (Peace is coming! Peace is coming!)”

Dybenko looked up as we came in. “Ah,” he said to Ba¬
klanov. “Comrade, will you go up to the Commandant’s
headquarters and take charge? Wait; I will write you creden¬
tials.” He went to the typewriter and slowly picked out the
letters.

The new Commandant of Tsarskoye Selo and I went
toward the Ekaterina Palace, Baklanov very excited and im¬
portant. In the same ornate, white room some Red Guards
were rummaging curiously around, while my old friend,
the Colonel, stood by the window biting his moustache. He
greeted me like a long-lost brother. At a table near the door
sat the French Bessarabian. The Bolsheviki had ordered
him to remain, and continue his work.

“What could I do?” he muttered. “People like myself can¬
not fight on either side in such a war as this, no matter
how much we may instinctively dislike the dictatorship of
the mob.... I only regret that I am so far from my mother
in Bessarabia!”

Baklanov was formally taking over the office from the
Commandant. “Here,” said the Colonel nervously, “are the
keys to the desk.”

A Red Guard interrupted. “Where’s the money?” he asked
rudely. The Colonel seemed surprised. “Money? Money? Ah,
you mean the chest. There it is,” said the Colonel, “just as


192










I found it when I took possession three days ago. Keys?”
The Colonel shrugged. “I have no keys.”

The Red Guard sneered knowingly. “Very convenient,” he
said.

“Let us open the chest,” said Baklanov. “Bring an axe.
Here is an American comrade. Let him smash the chest
open, and write down what he finds there.”

I swung the axe. The wooden chest was empty.

“Let’s arrest him,” said the Red Guard, venomously. “He
is Kerensky’s man. He has stolen the money and given it to
Kerensky.”

Baklanov did not want to. “Oh, no,” he said. “It was the
Kornilovitz before him. He is not to blame.”

“The devil!” cried the Red Guard. “He is Kerensky’s man,
I tell you. If you won’t arrest him, then we will, and we’ll take
him to Petrograd and put him in Peter-Paul, where he be¬
longs!” At this the other Red Guards growled assent. With
a piteous glance at us the Colonel was led away....

Down in front of the Soviet palace an auto-truck was going
to the front. Half a dozen Red Guards, some sailors, and a
soldier or two, under command of a huge workman, clam¬
bered in, and shouted to me to come along. Red Guards
issued from headquarters, each of them staggering under an
arm-load of small, corrugated-iron bombs, filled with grubit —
which, they say, is ten times as strong, and five times as
sensitive as dynamite; these they threw into the truck. A
three-inch cannon was loaded and then tied onto the tail of
the truck with bits of rope and wire.

We started with a shout, at top speed of course; the heavy
truck swaying from side to side. The cannon leaped from
one wheel to the other, and the grubit bombs went rolling
back and forth over our feet, fetching up against the sides
of the car with a crash.

The big Red Guard, whose name was Vladimir Nicolaie-
vitch, plied me with questions about America. “Why did
America come into the war? Are the American workers
ready to throw over the capitalists? What is the situation in
the Mooney' case now? Will they extradite Berkman 2 to San
Francisco?” and others, very difficult to answer, all delivered


1 Tom Mooney, a smelter active in the working-class movement in the
U.S.A., was sentenced to death on the trumped up charge of having thrown
a bomb during the parade in San Francisco on July 22, 1916. Under the
pressure of the indignant public President Wilson had to intervene and
the death sentence was commuted to life imprisonment. Although Tom
Mooney’s innocence was subsequently fully proved he spent over twenty
years in prison and was not released until the presidency of Roosevelt.—
Ed.

2 Berkman was tried together with Tom Mooney. — Ed.


13-253


193





in a shout above the roaring of the truck, while we held on
to each other and danced amid the caroming bombs.

Occasionally a patrol tried to stop us. Soldiers ran out into
the road before us, shouted, “ Stoil” and threw up their
guns.

We paid no attention. “The devil take you!” cried the
Red Guards. “We don’t stop for anybody! We’re Red
Guards!” And we thundered imperiously on, while Vladi¬
mir Nicolaievitch bellowed to me about the internationali¬
sation of the Panama Canal, and such matters....

About five miles out we saw a squad of sailors marching
back, and slowed down.

“Where’s the front, brothers?”

The foremost sailor halted and scratched his head. “This
morning,” he said, “it was about half a kilometre down the
road. But the damn thing isn’t anywhere now. We walked
and walked and walked, but we couldn’t find it.”

They climbed into the truck, and we proceeded. It must
have been about a mile further that Vladimir Nicolai¬
evitch cocked his ear and shouted to the chauffeur to
stop.

“Firing!” he said. “Do you hear it?” For a moment dead
silence, and then, a little ahead and to the left, three shots
in rapid succession. Along here the side of the road was
heavily wooded. Very much excited now, we crept along,
speaking in whispers, until the truck was nearly opposite
the place where the firing had come from. Descending, we
spread out, and every man carrying his rifle, went stealthily
into the forest.

Two comrades, meanwhile, detached the cannon and
slewed it around until it aimed as nearly as possible at our
backs.

It was silent in the woods. The leaves were gone, and the
tree-trunks were a pale wan colour in the low, sickly autumn
sun. Not a thing moved, except the ice of little woodland
pools shivering under our feet. Was it an ambush?

We went uneventfully forward until the trees began to
thin, and paused. Beyond, in a little clearing, three soldiers
sat around a small fire, perfectly oblivious.

Vladimir Nicolaievitch stepped forward. “ Zdra’zvuitye,
comrades!” he greeted, while behind him one cannon,
twenty rifles and a truck-load of grubit bombs hung by a hair.
The soldiers scrambled to their feet.

“What was the shooting going on around here?”

One of the soldiers answered, looking relieved, “Whv we
were just shooting a rabbit or two, comrade....”

The truck hurtled on toward Romanov, through the
bright, empty day. At the first cross-roads two soldiers ran


194






HCHOJlHHTeJIfcMUH KONHieT
ncrrorPAjiCKoro cobeta

MBOWXb « COAAATCKMX
JJEnXTATOflb
BoeuMbiH OiAe/ib


28 OKTfltfpa 19 / r


yiOCTOBtPEHlE.


HacToaiuee yAoCTOBtpeHle AaHo npeACTaBHTe
AMepHKaHcKOft Couiajii - AexoicpaTiH HHTepHaiu oHa-
jiwcTy TOBapxmy J 1 )K 0 K y P H Jl l B% to mi,
BoeHHo - peBojiisuioHHUN Kommtcti IleTepfiyprcKar
CoBfrra Pa^osMX'b h CojiflaTcKHXT> flenyTaroB^ npeA —
craBHCBii mmt) npaaa cBo^oAHaro npotsfla no BctM
CtscpHOMy tpoHTy Bi> u'knxy'B ocb+aoma eHin HauiHX’b
AMC pH KaHCKHXT) TOBapH^fH MHTCpHBU 1 OH BAH CTO B*b CT>
CO&UTlAMH Bl POCOIM.



eAciAaTCflb:


OexpcTap^t







Pass giving John Reed right of free travel to Northern Front


out in front of us, waving their rifles. We slowed down, and
stopped.

“Passes, comrades!”

The Red Guards raised a great clamour. “We are Red
Guards. We don’t need any passes.... Go on, never mind
them!”

But a sailor objected. “This is wrong, comrades. We must
have revolutionary discipline. Suppose some counter-revo¬
lutionaries came along in a truck and said: ‘We don’t need
any passes.’ The comrades don’t know you.”

At this there was a debate. One by one, however, the
sailors and soldiers joined with the first. Grumbling, each


13 *


195








Red Guard produced his dirty bumaga (paper). All were alike
except mine, which had been issued by the Revolutionary
Staff at Smolny. The sentries declared that I must go with
them. The Red Guards objected strenuously, but the sailor
who had spoken first insisted. “This comrade we know to be
a true comrade,” he said. “But there are orders of the Com¬
mittee, and these orders must be obeyed. That is revolu¬
tionary discipline....”

In order not to make any trouble, I got down from the
truck, and watched it disappear careening down the road,
all the company waving farewell. The soldiers consulted in
low tones for a moment, and then led me to a wall against
which they placed me. It flashed upon me suddenly: they
were going to shoot me!

In all three directions not a human being was in sight.
The only sign of life was smoke from the chimney of a
datchya, a rambling wooden house a quarter of a mile up
the side road. The two soldiers were walking out into the
road. Desperately I ran after them.

“But comrades! See! Here is the seal of the Military Revo¬
lutionary Committee!”

They stared stupidly at my pass, then at each other.

“It is different from the others,” said one, sullenly. “We
cannot read, brother.”

I took him by the arm. “Come!” I said. “Let’s go to that
house. Someone there can surely read.” They hesitated.
“No,” said one. The other looked me over. “Why not?” he
muttered. “After all, it is a serious crime to kill an innocent
man.”

We walked up to the front door of the house and knocked.
A short, stout woman opened it, and shrank back in alarm,
babbling, “I don’t know anything about them! I don’t know
anything about them!” One of my guards held out the pass.
She screamed. “Just to read it, comrade.” Hesitatingly
she took the paper and read aloud, swiftly:

The bearer of this pass, John Reed, is a representative of the
American Social-Democracy, an internationalist....

Out on the road again the two soldiers held another con¬
sultation. “We must take you to the Regimental Committee,”
they said. In the fast-deepening twilight we trudged along
the muddy road. Occasionally we met squads of soldiers,
who stopped and surrounded me with looks of menace,
handing my pass around and arguing violently as to whether
or not I should be killed....

It was dark when we came to the barracks of the Second
Tsarskoye Selo Rifles, low, sprawling buildings huddled along


196














the post-road. A number of soldiers slouching at the en¬
trance asked eager questions. A spy? A provocator? We
mounted a winding stair and emerged into a great, bare
room with a huge stove in the centre, and rows of cots on
the floor, where about a thousand soldiers were playing
cards, talking, singing, and asleep. In the roof was a jagged
hole made by Kerensky’s cannon....

I stood in the doorway, and a sudden silence ran among
the groups, who turned and stared at me. Of a sudden they
began to move, slowly and then with a rush, thundering,
with faces full of hate. “Comrades! Comrades!” yelled one
of my guards. “Committee! Committee!” The throng halted,
banked around me, muttering. Out of them shouldered a
lean youth, wearing a red arm-band.

“Who is this?” he asked roughly. The guards explained.
“Give me the paper!” He read it carefully, glancing at me
with keen eyes. Then he smiled and handed me the pass.
“Comrades, this is an American comrade. I am Chairman of
the Committee, and I welcome you to the Regiment....” A
sudden general buzz grew into a roar of greeting, and they
pressed forward to shake my hand.

“You have not dined? Here we have had our dinner. You
shall go to the Officers’ Club, where there are some who
speak your language....”

He led me across the courtyard to the door of another
building. An aristocratic-looking youth, with the shoulder-
straps of a lieutenant, was entering. The Chairman presented
me, and shaking hands, went back.

“I am Stepan Georgevitch Morovsky, at your service,”
said the Lieutenant, in perfect French. From the ornate
entrance-hall a ceremonial staircase led upward, lighted by
glittering lustres. On the second floor billiard-rooms, card-
rooms, a library opened from the hall. We entered the
dining-room, at a long table in the centre of which sat about
twenty officers in full uniform, wearing their gold- and sil¬
ver-handled swords, the ribbons and crosses of Imperial de¬
corations. All rose politely as I entered, and made a place for
me beside the Colonel, a large, impressive man with a griz¬
zled beard. Orderlies were deftly serving dinner. The atmo¬
sphere was that of any officers’ mess in Europe. Where was
the Revolution?

“You are not Bolsheviki?” I asked Morovsky.

A smile went around the table, but I caught one or two
glancing furtively at the orderly.

“No,” answered my friend. “There is only one Bolshevik
officer in this regiment. He is in Petrograd to-night. The
Colonel is a Menshevik. Captain Kherlov there is a Cadet.
I myself am a Socialist Revolutionary of the right wing....


197








I should say that most of the officers in the Army are not
Bolsheviki, but like me they believe in democracy; they be¬
lieve that they must follow the soldier-masses....”

Dinner over, maps were brought, and the Colonel
apread them out on the table. The rest crowded around to
see.

“Here,” said the Colonel, pointing to pencil marks, “were
our positions this morning. Vladimir Kyrilovitch, where is
your company?”

Captain Knerlov pointed. “According to orders, we oc¬
cupied the position along this road. Karsavin relieved me at
five o’clock.'

Just then the door of the room opened, and there entered
the Chairman of the Regimental Committee, with another
soldier. They joined the group behind the Colonel, [jeering
at the map.

“Good,” said the Colonel. “Now the Cossacks have fallen
back ten kilometres in our sector. I do not think it is nec¬
essary to take up advanced positions. Gentlemen, for to¬
night you will hold the present line, strengthening the posi¬
tions by—”

“If you please,” interrupted the Chairman of the Regi¬
mental Committee. “The orders are to advance with all
speed, and prepare to engage the Cossacks north of Gat¬
china in the morning. A crushing defeat is necessary. Kindly
make the proper dispositions.”

There was a short silence. The Colonel again turned to
the map. “Very well,” he said, in a different voice. “Stepan
Georgevitch, you will please—” Rapidly tracing lines with
a blue pencil, he gave his orders, while a sergeant made
shorthand notes. The sergeant then withdrew, and ten
minutes later returned with the orders typewritten, and one
carbon copy. The Chairman of the Committee studied the
map with a copy of the orders before him.

“All right,” he said, rising. Folding the carbon copy, he
put it in his pocket. Then he signed the other, stamped it
with a round seal taken from his pocket, and presented it to
the Colonel....

Here was the Revolution!

I returned to the Soviet palace in Tsarskoye in the Regi¬
mental Staff automobile. Still the crowds of workers, soldiers
and sailors pouring in and out, still the choking press of
trucks, armoured cars, cannon before the door, and the
shouting, the laughter of unwonted victory. Half a dozen
Red Guards forced their way through, a priest in the middle.
This was Father Ivan, they said, who had blessed the Cos¬
sacks when they entered the town. I heard afterward that
he was shot....«4»


198







Dybenko was just coming out, giving rapid orders right
and left. In his nand he carried the big revolver. An auto¬
mobile stood with racing engine at the kerb. Alone, he
climbed in the rear seat, and was off—off to Gatchina, to
conquer Kerensky.

Toward nightfall he arrived at the outskirts of the town,
and went on afoot. What Dybenko told the Cossacks nobody
knows, but the fact is that General Krasnov and his staff
and several thousand Cossacks surrendered, and advised Ke¬
rensky to do the same.«5»

As for Kerensky—I reprint here the deposition made by
General Krasnov on the morning of November 14th (Novem¬
ber 1st):


“Gatchina, November 1st, 1917. To-day, about three o’clock
(A.M.), I was summoned hy the Supreme Commander (Kerensky).
He was very agitated, and very nervous.

’’’General,’ he said to me, ’you have betrayed me. Your Cossacks
declare categorically that they will arrest me and deliver me to
the sailors.’

“’Yes,’ 1 answered, ’there is talk of it, and I know that you have
no sympathy anywhere.’

’’’But the officers say the same thing.’

“’Yes, most of all it is the officers who are discontented with
you.’

’’’What shall I do? I ought to commit suicide!’

“’If you are an honourable man, you will go immediately to Pet-
rograd with a white flag, you will present yourself to the Military
Revolutionary Committee, and enter into negotiations as Chief of
the Provisional Government.’

’’’All right. I will do that. General.’

“’1 will give you a guard and ask that a sailor go with you.'

’"No, no, not a sailor. Do you know whether it is true that Dy¬
benko is here?’

“’I don’t know who Dybenko is.’

”’He is my enemy.’

“There is nothing to do. If you play for high stakes you must
know how to take a chance.’

”’Yes, I’ll leave to-night!’

“’Why? That would be a flight. Leave calmly and openly, so that
every one can see that you are not running away.’

’’’Very well. But you must give me a guard on which I can count.’

“’Good.’

”1 went out and called the Cossack Russkov, of the Tenth Reg¬
iment of the Don, and ordered him to pick out ten Cossacks to
accompany the Supreme Commander. Half an hour later the Cos¬
sacks came to tell me that Kerensky was not in his quarters, that
he had run away.

“I gave the alarm and ordered that he be searched for, sup¬
posing that he could not have left Gatchina, but he could not be
found....”


199








And so Kerensky fled, alone, “disguised in the uniform of
a sailor,” and by that act lost whatever popularity he had
retained among the Russian masses....

I went back to Petrograd riding on the front seat of an
auto truck, driven by a workman and filled with Red Guards.
We had no kerosene, so our lights were not burning. The
road was crowded with the proletarian army going home,
and new reserves pouring out to take their places. Immense
trucks like ours, columns of artillery, wagons, loomed up
in the night, without lights, as we were. We hurtled furi¬
ously on, wrenched right and left to avoid collisions that
seemed inevitable, scraping wheels, followed by the epithets
of pedestrians.

Across the horizon spread the glittering lights of the cap¬
ital, immeasurably more splendid by night than by day, like
a dike of jewels heaped on the barren plain.

The old workman who drove held the wheel in one hand,
while with the other he swept the far-gleaming capital in
an exultant gesture.

“Mine!” he cried, his face all alight. “All mine now! My
Petrograd!”









Chapter X
MOSCOW


The Military Revolutionary Committee, with a fierce inten¬
sity, followed up its victory:

November 1st (14th).

To all Army corps, divisional and regimental Committees, to all
Soviets of Workers’, Soldiers’ and Peasants’ Deputies, to all, all, all.

Conforming to the agreement between the Cossacks, yunkers,
soldiers, sailors and workers, it has been decided to arraign Alexan¬
der Feodorovitch Kerensky before a tribunal of the people. We
demand that Kerensky be arrested, and that he be ordered, in the
name of the organisation hereinafter mentioned, to come immedi¬
ately to Petrograd and present himself to the tribunal.

Signed, The Cossacks of the First Division of
Ussuri Cavalry; the Committee of
Yunkers of the Petrograd detachment
of Franc-Tireurs; the delegate of the

Fifth Army.

People’s Commissar, Dybenko.

The Committee for Salvation, the Duma, the Central Com¬
mittee of the Socialist Revolutionary Party—proudly claim¬
ing Kerensky as a member—all passionately protested that he
could only be held responsible to the Constituent Assembly.

On the evening of November 16th I watched two thousand
Red Guards swing down the Zagorodny Prospekt behind a
military band playing the Marseillaise —and how appro¬
priate it sounded—with blood-red flags over the dark ranks
of workmen, to welcome home again their brothers who had
defended “Red Petrograd.” In the bitter dusk they tramped,
men and women, their tall bayonets swaying; through streets
faintly lighted and slippery with mud, between silent crowds
of bourgeois, contemptuous but fearful....

All were against them—business men, speculators, in¬
vestors, land-owners, army officers, politicians, teachers,
students, professional men, shop-keepers, clerks, agents.
The other Socialist parties hated the Bolsheviki with an im¬
placable hatred. On the side of the Soviets were the rank
and file of the workers, the sailors, all the undemoralised
soldiers, the landless peasants, and a few—a very few—intel¬
lectuals....


201










From the farthest corners of great Russia, whereupon
desperate street-fighting burst like a wave, news of Keren
sky s defeat came echoing bark the immense roar of proleta¬
rian victory. Kazan, Saratov, Novgorod, Vinnitza—where the
streets had run with blood; Moscow, where the Bolsheviki
had turned their artillery against the last stronghold of the
bourgeoisie—the Kremlin.

“They are bombarding the Kremlin!” The news passed
from mouth to mouth in the streets of Petrograd, almost
with a sense of terror. Travellers from “white and shining
little mother Moscow” told fearful tales. Thousands killed;
the Tverskaya and the Kuznetsky Most in flames; the church
of Vasili Blazheny a smoking ruin; Uspensky Cathedral
crumbling down; the Spasskaya Gate of the Kremlin totter¬
ing; the Duma burned to the ground.«l»

Nothing that the Bolsheviki had done could compare with
this fearful blasphemy in the heart of Holy Russia. To the
ears of the devout sounded the shock of guns crashing in the
face of the Holy Orthodox Church, and pounding to dust
the sanctuary of the Russian nation....

On November 15th, Lunatcharsky, Commissar of Educa¬
tion, broke into tears at the session of the Council of Peo¬
ple’s Commissars, and rushed from the room, crying, “I can¬
not stand it! I cannot bear the monstrous destruction of
beauty and tradition....”

That afternoon his letter of resignation was published in
the newspapers:

I have just been informed, by people arriving from Moscow,
what has happened there.

The Cathedral of St. Basil the Blessed, the Cathedral of the As¬
sumption, are being bombarded. The Kremlin, where are now
gathered the most important art treasures of Petrograd and of Mos¬
cow, is under artillery fire. There are thousands of victims.

The fearful struggle there has reached a pitch of bestial ferocity.

What is left? What more can happen?

I cannot bear this. My cup is full. I am unable to endure these
horrors. It is impossible to work under the pressure of thoughts
which drive me mad!

That is why I am leaving the Council of People’s Commissars.

I fully realise the gravity of this decision. But I can bear no
more....«2»

That same day the White Guards and yunkers in the Krem¬
lin surrendered, and were allowed to march out unharmed.
The treaty of peace follows:

1. The Committee of Public Safety ceases to exist.

2. The White Guard gives up its arms and dissolves. The officers


202




retain their swords and regulation side-arms. In the Military
Schools are retained only the arms necessary for instruction; all
others are surrendered by the yunkers. The Military Revolutionary
Committee guarantees the liberty and inviolability of the person.

3. To setde the question of disarmament, as set forth in sec¬
tion 2, a special commission is appointed, consisting of represent¬
atives from all organisations which took part in the peace nego¬
tiations.

4. From the moment of the signature of this peace treaty, both
parties shall immediately give order to cease firing and halt all
military operations, taking measures to ensure punctual obedience
to this order.

5. At the signature of the treaty, all prisoners made by the two
parties shall be released....

For two days now the Bolsheviki had been in control of
the city. The frightened citizens were creeping out of their
cellars to seek their dead; the barricades in the streets were
being removed. Instead of diminishing, however, the stories
of destruction in Moscow continued to grow.... And it was
under the influence of these fearful reports that we decided
to go there.

Petrograd, after all, in spite of being for a century the seat
of Government, is still an artificial city. Moscow is real Rus¬
sia, Russia as it was and will be; in Moscow we would get the
true feeling of the Russian people about the Revolution. Life
was more intense there.

For the past week the Petrograd Military Revolutionary
Committee, aided by the rank and file of the Railway Work¬
ers, had seized control of the Nicolai Railroad, and hurled
trainload after trainload of sailors and Red Guards south¬
west.... We were provided with passes from Smolny, without
which no one could leave the capital.... When the train
backed into the station, a mob of shabby soldiers, all carry¬
ing huge sacks of eatables, stormed the doors, smashed the
windows, and poured into all the compartments, filling up
the aisles and even climbing onto the roof. Three of us man¬
aged to wedge our way into a compartment, but almost im¬
mediately about twenty soldiers entered.... There was room
for only four people; we argued, expostulated, and the con¬
ductor joined us—but the soldiers merely laughed. Were
they to bother about the comfort of a lot of boonhui (bour¬
geois)? We produced the passes from Smolny; instantly the
soldiers changed their attitude.

“Come, comrades,” cried one, “these are American tova-
rishtchi They have come thirty thousand versts to see our
Revolution, and they are naturally tired....”

With polite and friendly apologies the soldiers began to
leave. Shortly afterward we heard them breaking into a corn-


203








partment occupied by two stout, well-dressed Russians, who
had bribed the conductor and locked their door....

About seven o’clock in the evening we drew out of the
station, an immense long train drawn by a weak little locomo¬
tive burning wood, and stumbled along slowly, with many
stops. The soldiers on the roof kicked with their heels and
sang whining peasant songs; and in the corridor, so jammed
that it was impossible to pass, violent political debates raged
all night long. Occasionally the conductor came through, as a
matter of habit, looking for tickets. He found very few ex¬
cept ours, and after a half-hour of futile wrangling, lifted
his arms despairingly and withdrew. The atmosphere was
stifling, full of smoke and foul odours; if it hadn’t been
for the broken windows we would doubtless have smothered
during the night.

In the morning, hours late, we looked out upon a snowy
world. It was bitter cold. About noon a peasant woman got
on with a basketful of bread-chunks and a great can of luke
warm coffee-substitute. From then on until dark there was
nothing but the packed train, jolting and stopping, and oc¬
casional stations where a ravenous mob swooped down on
the scantily-furnished buffet and swept it clean.... At one
of these halts I ran into Nogin and Rykov, the seceding
Commissars, who were returning to Moscow to put their
grievances before their own Soviet 1 ; and further along was
Bukharin, a short, red-bearded man with the eyes of a fanat¬
ic—“more Left than Lenin,” they said of him....

Then the three strokes of the bell and we made a rush
for the train, worming our way through the packed and
noisy aisle.... A good-natured crowd, bearing the discom¬
fort with humorous patience, interminably arguing about
everything from the situation in Petrograd to the British
Trade Union system, and disputing loudly with the few boor-
zhui who were on board. Before we reacned Moscow almost
every car had organised a Committee to secure and distrib¬
ute food, and these Committees became divided into politi¬
cal factions, who wrangled over fundamental principles....

The station at Moscow was deserted. We went to the office
of the Commissar, in order to arrange for our return tickets.
He was a sullen youth with the shoulder-straps of a lieuten¬
ant; when we showed him our papers from Smolny, he lost
his temper and declared that he was no Bolshevik, that he
represented the Committee of Public Safety.... It was charac¬
teristic—in the general turmoil attending the conquest of the
city, the chief railway station had been forgotten by the vic¬
tors....


'See Chapter XI.


204







Not a cab in sight. A few blocks down the street, however,
we woke up a grotesquely-padded izvostchik asleep upright
on the box of his little sleigh. “How much to the centre of
the town?”

He scratched his head. “The barini won’t be able to find a
room in any hotel,” he said. “But I’ll take you around for a
hundred roubles....” Before the Revolution it cost two ! We
objected, but he simply shrugged his shoulders. “It takes a
good deal of courage to drive a sleigh nowadays,” he went
on. We could not beat him down below fifty.... As we sped
along the silent, snowy, half-lighted streets, he recounted his
adventures during the six days’ fighting. “Driving along, or
waiting for a fare on the corner,” he said, “all of a sudden
pooffl a cannon ball exploding here, pooff ! a cannon ball
there, ratt-rattl a machine-gun.... I gallop, tne devils shooting
all around. I get to a nice quiet street and stop, doze a little,
pooffl another cannon ball, ratt-ratt.... Devils! Devils! Devils!
Brrr!”

In the centre of the town the snow-piled streets were quiet
with the stillness of convalescence. Only a few arc-lights were
burning, only a few pedestrians hurried along the side-walks.
An icy wind blew from the great plain, cutting to the bone.
At the first hotel we entered an office illuminated by two
candles.

“Yes, we have some very comfortable rooms, but all the
windows are shot out. If the gospodin does not mind a little
fresh air....”

Down the Tverskaya the shop-windows were broken, and
there were shell-holes and torn-up paving stones in the
street. Hotel after hotel, all full, or tne proprietors still so
frightened that all they could say was, “No, no, there is no
room! There is no room!” On the main streets, where the
great banking-houses and mercantile houses lay, the Bolshe¬
vik artillery had been indiscriminately effective. As one So¬
viet official told me, “Whenever we didn’t know just where
the yunkers and White Guards were, we bombarded their
pocketbooks....”

At the big Hotel National they finally took us in; for we
were foreigners, and the Military Revolutionary Committee
had promised to protect the dwellings of foreigners....
On the top floor the manager showed us where shrapnel
had shattered several windows. “The animals!” said he,
shaking his fist at imaginary Bolsheviki. “But wait! Their
time will come; in just a few days now their ridiculous
Government will fall, and then we shall make them suf¬
fer!”

We dined at a vegetarian restaurant with the enticing
name, “I Eat Nobody,” and Tolstoi’s picture prominent


205






on the wall, and then sallied out into the streets.

The headquarters of the Moscow Soviet was in the palace
of the former Governor-General, an imposing white build¬
ing fronting Skobeliev Square. Red Guards stood sentry at
the door. At the head of the wide, formal stairway, whose
walls were plastered with announcements of committee-
meetings and addresses of political parties, we passed
through a series of lofty ante-rooms, hung with red-shroud¬
ed pictures in gold frames, to the splendid state salon, with
its magnificent crystal lustres and gilded cornices. A low¬
voiced hum of talk, underlaid with the whirring bass of a
score of sewing machines, filled the place. Huge bolts of
red and black cotton cloth were unrolled, serpentining across
the parqueted floor and over tables, at wnich sat half a
hundred women, cutting and sewing streamers and banners
for the Funeral of the Revolutionary Dead. The faces of
these women were roughened and scarred with life at its
most difficult; they worked now sternly, many of them with
eyes red from weeping.... The losses of the Red Army had
been heavy.

At a desk in one corner was Rogov, an intelligent, bearded
man with glasses, wearing the black blouse of a worker. He
invited us to march with the Central Executive Committee in
the funeral procession next morning....

“It is impossible to teach the Socialist Revolutionaries and
the Mensheviki anything!” he exclaimed. “They compromise
from sheer habit. Imagine! They proposed that we hold a
joint funeral with the yi inkers'.”

Across the hall came a man in a ragged soldier-coat and
shapka, whose face was familiar; I recognised Melnichansky,
whom I had known as the watch-maker George Melcher in
Bayonne, New Jersey, during the great Standard Oil strike.
Now, he told me, he was secretary of the Moscow Metal-
Workers’ Union, and a Commissar of the Military Revolu¬
tionary Committee during the fighting....

“You see me!” he cried, showing his decrepit clothing.
“I was with the boys in the Kremlin when the yunkers came
the first time. They shut me up in the cellar and swiped
my overcoat, my money, watch and even the ring on my
finger. This is all I’ve got to wear!”

From him I learned many details of the bloody six-day
battle which had rent Moscow in two. Unlike in Petrograd,
in Moscow the City Duma had taken command of the yunkers
and White Guards. Rudnev, the Mayor, and Minor, presi¬
dent of the Duma, had directed the activities of the Com¬
mittee of Public Safety and the troops. Riabtsev, Comman¬
dant of the city, a man of democratic instincts, had hesitated
about opposing the Military Revolutionary Committee; but


206







the Duma had forced him.... It was the Mayor who had
urged the occupation of the Kremlin; “They will never dare
fire on you there,” he said....

One garrison regiment, badly demoralised by long inac¬
tivity, had been approached by both sides. The regiment
held a meeting to decide what action to take. Resolved, that
the regiment remain neutral, and continue its present ac¬
tivities—which consisted in peddling rubbers and sunflower
seeds!

“But worst of all,” said Melnichansky, “we had to organise
while we were fighting. The other side knew just what it
wanted; but here the soldiers had their Soviet and the work¬
ers theirs.... There was a fearful wrangle over who should be
Commander-in-Chief; some regiments talked for days before
they decided what to do; and when the officers suddenly
deserted us, we had no battle-staff to give orders....”

Vivid litde pictures he gave me. On a cold grey day he
had stood at a corner of the Nikitskaya, which was swept
by blasts of machine-gun fire. A throng of little boys were
gathered there—street waifs who used to be newsboys. Shrill,
excited as if with a new game, they waited until the firing
slackened, and then tried to run across the street.... Many
were killed, but the rest dashed backward and forward,
laughing, daring each other....

Late in the evening I went to the Dvorianskoye Sobranie —
the Nobles’ Club—where the Moscow Bolsheviki were to
meet and consider the report of Nogin, Rykov and the
others who had left the Council of People’s Commissars.

The meeting-place was a theatre, in which, under the old
regime, to audiences of officers and glittering ladies, amateur
presentations of the latest French comedy had once taken
place.

At first the place filled with the intellectuals—those who
lived near the centre of the town. Nogin spoke, and most of
his listeners were plainly with him. It was very late before
the workers arrived; the working-class quarters were on the
outskirts of the town, and no street-cars were running. But
about midnight they began to clump up the stairs, in groups
of ten or twenty—big, rough men, in coarse clothes, fresh
from the battle-line, where they had fought like devils for
a week, seeing their comrades fall all about them.

Scarcely had the meeting formally opened before Nogin
was assailed with a tempest of jeers and angry shouts. In
vain he tried to argue, to explain; they would not listen.
He had left the Council of People’s Commissars; he had
deserted his post while the battle was raging. As for the
bourgeois press, here in Moscow there was no more bour¬
geois press; even the City Duma had been dissolved.«3,4» Bu-


207





kharin stood up, savage, logical, with a voice which plunged
and struck, plunged and struck.... Him they listened to with
shining eyes. Resolution, to support the action of the Council
of People’s Commissars, passed by overwhelming majority.
So spoke Moscow....

Late in the night we went through the empty streets and
under the Iberian Gate to the great Red Square in front of
the Kremlin. The church of Vasili Blazheny loomed fantastic,
its bright-coloured, convoluted and blazoned cupolas vague
in the darkness. There was no sign of any damage.... Along
one side of the square the dark towers and walls of the
Kremlin stood up. On the high walls flickered redly the light
of hidden flames; voices reached us across the immense
place, and the sound of picks and shovels. We crossed over.

Mountains of dirt and rock were piled high near the base
of the wall. Climbing these we looked down into two massive
pits, ten or fifteen feet deep and fifty yards long, where
hundreds of soldiers and workers were digging in the light
of huge fires.

A young student spoke to us in German. “The Brother¬
hood Grave,” he explained. “To-morrow we shall bury here
five hundred proletarians who died for the Revolution.”

He took us down into the pit. In frantic haste swung the
picks and shovels, and the earth-mountains grew. No one
spoke. Overhead the night was thick with stars, and the an¬
cient Imperial Kremlin wall towered up immeasurably.

“Here in this holy place,” said the student, “holiest of all
Russia, we shall bury our most holy. Here where are the
tombs of the Tsars, our Tsar—the People—shall sleep....”
His arm was in a sling, from a bullet-wound gained in the
fighting. He looked at it. “You foreigners look down on us
Russians because so long we tolerated a mediaeval monar¬
chy,” said he. “But we saw that the Tsar was not the only
tyrant in the world; capitalism was worse, and in all the
countries of the world capitalism was Emperor.... Russian
revolutionary tactics are best....”

As we left, the workers in the pit, exhausted and running
with sweat in spite of the cold, began to climb wearily out.
Across the Red Square a dark knot of men came hurrying.
They swarmed into the pits, picked up the tools and began
digging, digging, without a word....

So all the long night volunteers of the People relieved
each other, never halting in their driving speed, and the
cold light of the dawn laid bare the great Square, white with
snow, and the yawning brown pits of the Brotherhood
Grave, quite finished.

We rose before sunrise, and hurried through the dark
streets to Skobeliev Square. In all the great city not a human


208











A detachment of sailors commanded by Dybenko on its way to fight
Kerensky’s troops








A reinforced tram platform used in the November fighting in
Moscow's Zamoskvorechye District















being could be seen; but there was a faint sound of stirring,
far and near, like a deep wind coming. In the pale half-light
a little group of men and women were gathered before the
Soviet headquarters, with a sheaf of gold-lettered red ban¬
ners—the Central Executive Committee of the Moscow So¬
viet. It grew light. From afar the vague stirring sound
deepened and became louder, a steady and tremendous bass.
The city was rising. We set out down the Tverskaya, the ban¬
ners flapping overhead. The little street chapels along our
way were locked and dark, as was the Chapel of the Iberian
Virgin, which each new Tsar used to visit before he went to
the Kremlin to crown himself, and which, day or night, was
always open and crowded, and brilliant with the candles of
the devout gleaming on the gold and silver and jewels of
the ikons. Now, for the first time since Napoleon was in Mos¬
cow, they say, the candles were out.

The Holy Orthodox Church had withdrawn the light of
its countenance from Moscow, the nest of irreverent vipers
who had bombarded the Kremlin. Dark and silent and cold
were the churches; the priests had disappeared. There were
no popes to officiate at the Red Burial, there had been no
sacrament for the dead, nor were any prayers to be said over
the grave of the blasphemers. Tikhon, Metropolitan of Mos¬
cow, was soon to excommunicate the Soviets....

Also the shops were closed, and the propertied classes
stayed at home—but for other reasons. This was the Day of
the People, the rumour of whose coming was thunderous as
surf....

Already through the Iberian Gate a human river was flow¬
ing, and the vast Red Square was spotted with people, thou¬
sands of them. I remarked that as the throng passed the Ibe¬
rian Chapel, where always before the passer-by had crossed
himself, they did not seem to notice it....

We forced our way through the dense mass packed near
the Kremlin wall, and stood upon one of the dirt-mountains.
Already several men were there, among them Muranov, the
soldier who had been elected Commandant of Moscow— a
tall, simple-looking, bearded man with a gentle face.

Through all the streets to the Red Square the torrents of
people poured, thousands upon thousands of them, all with
the look of the poor and the toiling. A military band came
marching up, playing the Internationale, and spontaneously
the song caught and spread like wind-ripples on a sea, slow
and solemn. From the top of the Kremlin wall gigantic ban¬
ners unrolled to the ground; red, with great letters in gold
and in white, saying, “Martyrs of the Beginning of World
Social Revolution,” and “Long Live the Brotherhood of
Workers of the World.”


14-253


209




A bitter wind swept the Square, lifting the banners. Now
from the far quarters of the city the workers of the different
factories were arriving, with their dead. They could be seen
coming through the Gate, the blare of their banners, and
the dull red — like blood—of the coffins they carried. These
were rude boxes, made of unplaned wood and daubed with
crimson, borne high on the shoulders of rough men who
marched with tears streaming down their faces, and followed
by women who sobbed and screamed, or walked stiffly, with
white, dead faces. Some of the coffins were open, the lid
carried behind them; others were covered with gilded or
silvered cloth, or had a soldier’s hat nailed on the top.
There were many wreaths of hideous artificial flowers....

Through an irregular lane that opened and closed again
the procession slowly moved toward us. Now through the
Gate was flowing an endless stream of banners, all shades
of red, with silver and gold lettering, knots of crepe hang¬
ing from the top—and some Anarchist flags, black with white
letters. The band was playing the Revolutionary Funeral
March, and against the immense singing of the mass of peo¬
ple, standing uncovered, the paraders sang hoarsely, choked
with sobs....

Between the factory-workers came companies of soldiers
with their coffins, too, and squadrons of cavalry, riding at
salute, and artillery batteries, the cannon wound with red
and black—forever, it seemed. Their banners said, “Long
live the Third International!” or “We Want an Honest,
General, Democratic Peace.”

Slowly the marchers came with their coffins to the en¬
trance of the grave, and the bearers clambered up with their
burdens and went down into the pit. Many of them were
women — squat, strong proletarian women. Behind the dead
came other women—women young and broken, or old,
wrinkled women making noises like hurt animals, who tried
to follow their sons and husbands into the Brotherhood
Grave, and shrieked when compassionate hands restrained
them. The poor love each other so!

All the long day the funeral procession passed, coming in
by the Iberian Gate and leaving the Square by way of the
Nikolskaya, a river of red banners, bearing words of hope
and brotherhood and stupendous prophecies, against a back¬
ground of fifty thousand people—under the eyes of the
world’s workers and their descendants forever....

One by one the five hundred coffins were laid in the pits.
Dusk fell, and still the banners came drooping and flutter¬
ing, the band played the Funeral March, and the huge as¬
semblage chanted. In the leafless branches of the trees above
the grave the wreaths were hung, like strange, multi-


210








coloured blossoms. Two hundred men began to shovel in the
dirt. It rained dully down upon the coffins with a thudding
sound, audible beneath the singing....

The lights came out. The last banners passed, and the last
moaning women, looking back with awful intensity as they
went. Slowly from the great Square ebbed the proletarian
tide....

I suddenly realised that the devout Russian people no
longer needed priests to pray them into heaven. On earth
they were building a kingdom more bright than any heaven
haa to offer, and for which it was a glory to die....





Chapter XI

THE CONQUEST OF POWER «I»


Declaration of the Rights of the Peoples of Russia «2»

...The first Congress of Soviets, in June of this year, proclaimed
the right of the peoples of Russia to self-determination.

The second Congress of Soviets, in November last, confirmed this
inalienable right of the peoples of Russia more decisively and defi¬
nitely.

Executing the will of these Congresses, the Council of People’s
Commissars has resolved to establish as a basis for its activity in
the question of Nationalities, the following principles:

(1) The equality and sovereignty of the peoples of Russia.

(2) The right of the peoples of Russia to free self-determination,
even to the point of separation and the formation of an indepen¬
dent state.

(3) The abolition of any and all national and national-religious
privileges and disabilities.

(4) The free development of national minorities and ethnogra¬
phic groups inhabiting the territory of Russia.

Decrees will be prepared immediately upon the formation of a
Commission on Nationalities.

In the name of the Russian Republic,

People's Commissar for Nationalities
Yussov Djugashvili-Stalin.

President of the Council of People’s Commissars
V. Ulianov (Lenin).

The Central Rada at Kiev immediately declared the
Ukraine an independent Republic, as did the Government of
Finland, through the Senate at Helsingfors. Independent
“Governments” sprang up in Siberia and the Caucasus. The
Polish Chief Military Committee swiftly gathered together the
Polish troops in the Russian army, abolished their Committees
and established an iron discipline....

All these “Governments” and “movements” had two char¬
acteristics in common; they were controlled by the proper¬
tied classes, and they feared and detested Bolshevism....

Steadily, amid the chaos of shocking change, the Council
of People’s Commissars hammered at the scaffolding of the
Socialist order. Decree on Social Insurance, on Workers’
Control, Regulations for Volost Land Committees, Abolition


212









of Ranks and Titles, Abolition of Courts and the Creation
of People’s Tribunals....«3»

Army after army, fleet after fleet, sent deputations, “joy¬
fully to greet the new Government of the People.”

In front of Smolny, one day, I saw a ragged regiment just
come from the trenches. The soldiers were drawn up before
the great gates, thin and grey-faced, looking up at the build¬
ing as if God were in it. Some pointed out the Imperial
eagles over the door, laughing.... Red Guards came to mount
guard. All the soldiers turned to look, curiously, as if they
had heard of them but never seen them. They laughed
good-naturedly and pressed out of line to slap the Red
Guards on the back, with half-joking, half-admiring re¬
marks....

The Provisional Government was no more. On November
15th, in all the churches of the capital, the priests stopped
praying for it. But as Lenin himself told tne Tsay-ee-kah ,
that was “only the beginning of the conquest of power.” De¬
prived of arms, the opposition, which still controlled the eco¬
nomic life of the country, settled down to organise disorgan¬
isation, with all the Russian genius for co-operative action—
to obstruct, cripple and discredit the Soviets.

The strike of Government employees was well organised,
financed by the banks and commercial establishments. Every
move of the Bolsheviki to take over the Government appara¬
tus was resisted.

Trotzky went to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; the func¬
tionaries refused to recognise him, locked themselves in, and
when the doors were forced, resigned. He demanded the
keys of the archives; only when he brought workmen to
force the locks were they given up. Then it was discovered
that Neratov, former assistant Foreign Minister, had disap¬
peared with the Secret Treaties....

Shliapnikov tried to take possession of the Ministry of La¬
bour. It was bitterly cold, and there was no one to light the
fires. Of all the hundreds of employees, not one would show
him where the office of the Minister was....

Alexandra Kollontai, appointed on the 13th of November
Commissar of Public Welfare—the department of charities
and public institutions—was welcomed with a strike of all
but forty of the functionaries in the Ministry. Immediately
the poor of the great cities, the inmates of institutions, were
plunged in miserable want: delegations of starving cripples,
of orphans with blue, pinched faces, besieged the building.
With tears streaming down her face, Kollontai arrested the
strikers until they should deliver the keys of the office and
the safe; when she got the keys, however, it was discovered
that the former Minister, Countess Panina, had gone off with


213






all the funds, which she refused to surrender except on the
order of the Constituent Assembly. «4»

In the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Supplies,
the Ministry of Finance, similar incidents occurred. And the
employees, summoned to return or forfeit their positions
and their pensions, either stayed away or returned to sabo¬
tage.... Almost all the intelligentsia being anti-Bolshevik, there
was nowhere for the Soviet Government to recruit new
staffs....

The private banks remained stubbornly closed, with a back
door open for speculators. When Bolshevik Commissars en¬
tered, the clerks left, secreting the books and removing the
funds. All the employees of the State Bank struck except the
clerks in charge of the vaults and the manufacture of money,
who refused all demands from Smolny and privately paid
out huge sums to the Committee for Salvation and the City
Duma.

Twice a Commissar, with a company of Red Guards, came
formally to insist upon the delivery of large sums for Gov¬
ernment expenses. The first time, the City Duma members
and the Menshevik and Socialist Revolutionary leaders were
present in imposing numbers, and spoke so gravely of the
consequences that the Commissar was frightened. The sec¬
ond time he arrived with a warrant, which he proceeded to
read aloud in due form; but some one called his attention
to the fact that it had no date and no seal, and the tradi¬
tional Russian respect for “documents” forced him again to
withdraw....

The officials of the Credit Chancery destroyed their books,
so that all record of the financial relations of Russia with
foreign countries was lost.

The Supply Committees, the administrations of the Mu¬
nicipal-owned public utilities, either did not work at all, or
sabotaged. Ana when the Bolsheviki, compelled by the des¬
perate needs of the city population, attempted to help or to
control the public service, all the employees went on strike
immediately, and the Duma flooded Russia with telegrams
about Bolshevik “violation of Municipal autonomy.”

At military headquarters, and in the offices of the Min¬
istries of War and Marine, where the old officials had con¬
sented to work, the Army Committees and the high com¬
mand blocked the Soviets in every way possible, even to the
extent of neglecting the troops at the front. The Vikzhel was
hostile, refusing to transport Soviet troops; every troop-train
that left Petrograd was taken out by force, and railway offi¬
cials had to be arrested each time—whereupon the Vikzhel
threatened an immediate general strike unless they were re¬
leased....


214







Smolny was plainly powerless. The newspapers said that
all the factories of Petrograd must shut down for lack of
fuel in three weeks; the Vikzhel announced that trains must
cease running by December 1st; there was food for three
days only in Petrograd, and no more coming in; and the
Army on the Front was starving.... The Committee for Sal¬
vation, the various Central Committees, sent word all over
the country, exhorting the population to ignore the Govern¬
ment decrees. And the Allied Embassies were either coldly
indifferent, or openly hostile....

The opposition newspapers, suppressed one day and reap¬
pearing next morning under new names, heaped bitter sar¬
casm on the new regime.«5» Even Novaya Zhizn characterised
it as “a combination of demagoguery and impotence.”

From day to day (it said) the Government of the People’s Com¬
missars sinks deeper and deeper into the mire of superficial haste.
Having easily conquered the power ... the Bolsheviki cannot make
use of it.

Powerless to direct the existing mechanism of Government, they
are unable at the same time to create a new one which might work
easily and freely according to the theories of social experimenters.

Just a litde while ago the Bolsheviki hadn’t enough men to run
their growing party—a work above all of speakers and writers;
where then are they going to find trained men to execute the di¬
verse and complicated functions of government?

The new Government acts and threatens, it sprays the country
with decrees, each one more radical and more “socialist” than the
last. But in this exhibition of Socialism on Paper—more likely de¬
signed for the stupefaction of our descendants—there appears nei¬
ther the desire nor the capacity to solve the immediate problems
of the day!

Meanwhile the Vikzhel ’s Conference to Form a New Gov¬
ernment continued to meet night and day. Both sides had
already agreed in principle to the basis of the Government;
the composition of the People’s Council was being discussed;
the Cabinet was tentatively chosen, with Tchernov as Pre¬
mier; the Bolsheviki were admitted in a large minority, but
Lenin and Trotzky were barred. The Central Committees of
the Menshevik and Socialist Revolutionary parties, the Ex¬
ecutive Committee of the Peasants’ Soviets, resolved that, al¬
though unalterably opposed to the “criminal politics” of the
Bolsheviki, they would, “in order to halt the fratricidal
bloodshed,” not oppose their entrance into the People’s
Council.

The flight of Kerensky, however, and the astounding suc¬
cess of the Soviets everywhere, altered the situation. On the
16th, in a meeting of the Tsay-ee-kah, the Left Socialist Rev-


215








olutionaries insisted that the Bolsheviki should form a coa¬
lition Government with the other Socialist parties; otherwise
they would withdraw from the Military Revolutionary Com¬
mittee and the Tsay-ee-kah. Malkin said, “The news from
Moscow, where our comrades are dying on both sides of the
barricades, determines us to bring up once more the ques¬
tion of organisation of power, and it is not only our right
to do so, but our duty.... We have won the right to sit with
the Bolsheviki here within the walls of Smolny Institute, and
to speak from this tribune. After the bitter internal party
struggle, we shall be obliged, if you refuse to compromise, to
pass to open battle outside.... We must propose to the dem¬
ocracy terms of an acceptable compromise....”

After a recess to consider this ultimatum, the Bolsheviki
returned with a resolution, read by Kameniev:

The Tsay-ee-kah considers it necessary that there enter into the
Government representatives of all the Socialist parties composing the
Soviets of Workers’, Soldiers’ and Peasants' Deputies who recognise
the conquests of the Revolution of November 7th—that is to say,
the establishment of a Government of Soviets, the decrees on peace,
land, workers’ control over industry, and the arming of the work¬
ing-class. The Tsay-ee-kah therefore resolves to propose negotiatio
concerning the constitution of the Government to all parties of the
Soviet, and insist upon the following conditions as a basis:

The Government is responsible to the Tsay-ee-kah. The
Tsay-ee-kah shall be enlarged to 130 members. To these 150 del¬
egates of the Soviets of Workers’ and Soldiers’ Deputies shall be
added 75 delegates of the Provincial Soviets of Peasants’ Deputies,
80 from the Front organisations of the Army and Navy, 40 from
the Trade Unions (25 from the various All-Russian Unions, in pro¬
portion to their importance, 10 from the Vikzhel, and 5 from the
Post and Telegraph Workers), and 50 delegates from the Socialist
groups in the Petrograd City Duma. In the Ministry itself, at least
one-half the portfolios must be reserved to the Bolsheviki. The
Ministries of Labour, Interior and Foreign Affairs must be given
to the Bolsheviki. The command of the garrisons of Petrograd and
Moscow must remain in the hands of delegates of the Moscow and
Petrograd Soviets.

The Government undertakes the systematic arming of the work¬
ers of all Russia.

It is resolved to insist upon the candidature of comrades Lenin
and Trotzky.

Kameniev explained. “The so-called ’People’s Council,”’
he said, “proposed by the Conference, would consist of
about 420 members, of which about 150 would be Bolsheviki.
Besides, there would be delegates from the counter-revolu¬
tionary old Tsay-ee-kah, 100 members chosen by the Munici¬
pal Dumas—Kornilovtsi all; 100 delegates from the Peasants’
Soviets—appointed by Avksentiev, and 80 from the old Army


216








Committees, who no longer represent the soldier masses.

”We refuse to admit the old Tsay-ee-kah, and also the rep¬
resentatives of the Municipal Dumas. The delegates from
the Peasants’ Soviets shall be elected by the Congress of
Peasants, which we have called, and which will at the same
time elect a new Executive Committee. The proposal to ex¬
clude Lenin and Trotzky is a proposal to decapitate our
party, and we do not accept it. Ana finally, we see no ne¬
cessity for a ’People’s Council’ anyway; the Soviets are open
to all Socialist parties, and the Tsay-ee-kah represents them in
their real proportions among the masses...."

Karelin, for the Left Socialist Revolutionaries, declared
that his party would vote for the Bolshevik resolution, re¬
serving the right to modify certain details, such as the rep¬
resentation of the peasants, and demanding that the Ministry
of Agriculture be reserved for the Left Socialist Revolution¬
aries. This was agreed to....

Later, at a meeting of the Petrograd Soviet, Trotzky an¬
swered a question about the formation of the new Govern¬
ment:

”1 don’t know anything about that. I am not taking part
in the negotiations.... However, I don’t think that they are
of great importance...."

That night there was great uneasiness in the Conference.
The delegates of the City Duma withdrew....

But at Smolny itself, in the ranks of the Bolshevik party, a
formidable opposition to Lenin’s policy was growing. On the
night of November 17th the great hall was packed and omi¬
nous for the meeting of the Tsay-ee-kah.

Larin, Bolshevik, declared that the moment of elections to
the Constituent Assembly approached, and it was time to do
away with ’’political terrorism."

’’The measures taken against the freedom of the press
should be modified. They had their reason during the
struggle, but now they have no further excuse. The press
should be free, except for appeals to riot and insurrection."

In a storm of hisses and hoots from his own party, Larin
offered the following resolution:

The decree of the Council of People’s Commissars concerning
the Press is herewith repealed.

Measures of political repression can only be employed subject
to decision of a special tribunal, elected by the Tsay-ee-kah (pro¬
portionally to the strength of the different parties represented) 1 ;
and this tribunal shall have the right also to reconsider measures
of repression already taken.


iThe words put in brackets are absent in the minutes of the Central Ex¬
ecutive Committee.— Ed.


217






This was met by a thunder of applause, not only from the
Left Socialist Revolutionaries, but also from a part of the
Bolsheviki.

Avanessov, for the Leninites, hastily proposed that the
question of the Press be postponed until after some compro¬
mise between the Socialist parties had been reached. Over¬
whelmingly voted down.

“The revolution which is now being accomplished,” went
on Avanessov, “has not hesitated to attack private property;
and it is as private property that we must examine the ques¬
tion of the Press....”

Thereupon he read the official Bolshevik resolution:

The suppression of the bourgeois press was dictated not only by
purely military needs in the course of the insurrection, and for the
checking of counter-revolutionary action, but it is also necessary as
a measure of transition toward the establishment of a new regime
with regard to the Press—a regime under which the capitalist own
ers of printing presses and of paper cannot be the all-powerful and
exclusive manufacturers of public opinion.

We must further proceed to the confiscation of private printing
plants and supplies of paper, which should become the property of
the Soviets, both in the capital and in the provinces, so that the
political parties and groups can make use of the facilities of print¬
ing in proportion to the actual strength of the ideas they repre¬
sent—in other words, proportionally to the number of their con¬
stituents.

The re-establishment of the so-called “freedom of the press,” the
simple return of printing presses and paper to the capitalists—pois¬
oners of the mind of the people—this would be an inadmissible
surrender to the will of capital, a giving up of one of the most
important conquests of the Revolution; in other words, it would be
a measure of unquestionably counter-revolutionary character.

Proceeding from the above, the Tsay-ee-knh categorically rejects all
propositions aiming at the re-establishment of the old regime in the
domain of the Press, and unequivocally supports the point of view
of the Council of People’s Commissars on this question, against pre¬
tensions and ultimatums dictated by (jetty bourgeois prejudices, or
by evident surrender to the interests of the counter-revolutionary
bourgeoisie.

The reading of this resolution was interrupted by ironical
shouts from the Left Socialist Revolutionaries, and bursts of
indignation from the insurgent Bolsheviki. Karelin was on
his feet, protesting, “Three weeks ago the Bolsheviki were
the most ardent defenders of the freedom of the Press....
The arguments in this resolution suggest singularly the point
of view of the old Black Hundreds and the censors of the
Tsarist regime—for they also talked of ’poisoners of the
mind of the people.’”


218




Trotzky spoke at length in favour of the resolution. He
distinguished between the Press during the civil war, and the
Press after the victory. “During civil war the right to use
violence belongs only to the oppressed....” (Cries of “Who’s
the oppressed now? Cannibal!”)

“The victory over our adversaries is not yet achieved, and
the newspapers are arms in their hands. In these conditions,
the closing of the newspapers is a legitimate measure of de¬
fence....” Then passing to the question of the Press after the
victory, Trotzky continued:

“The attitude of Socialists on the question of freedom of
the Press should be the same as their attitude toward the
freedom of business.... The rule of the democracy which is
being established in Russia demands that the domination of
the Press by private property must be abolished, just as the
domination of industry by private property.... The power of
the Soviets should confiscate all printing plants.” (Cries,
“Confiscate the printing shop of PravdaV’)

“The monopoly of the Press by the bourgeoisie must be
abolished. Otherwise it isn’t worth while for us to take the
power! Each group of citizens should have access to print-
shops and paper.... The ownership of print-type and of pa¬
per belongs first to the workers and peasants, and only af¬
terwards to the bourgeois parties, which are in a minority....
The passing of the power into the hands of the Soviets will
bring about a radical transformation of the essential condi¬
tions of existence, and this transformation will necessarily
be evident in the Press.... If we are going to nationalise the
banks, can we then tolerate the financial journals? The old
regime must die; that must be understood once and for
all....” Applause and angry cries.

Karelin declared that the Tsay-ee-kah had no right to pass
upon this important question, which should be left to a spe¬
cial committee. Again, passionately, he demanded that the
Press be free.

Then Lenin, calm, unemotional, his forehead wrinkled, as
he spoke slowly, choosing his words; each sentence falling
like a hammer-blow. “The civil war is not yet finished; the
enemy is still with us; consequently it is impossible to abol¬
ish the measures of repression against the Press.

“We Bolsheviki have always said that when we reached a
position of power we would close the bourgeois press. To
tolerate the bourgeois newspapers would mean to cease being
a Socialist. When one makes a Revolution, one cannot mark
time; one must always go forward—or go back. He who now
talks about the ‘freedom of the Press’ goes backward, and
halts our headlong course toward Socialism.

“We have thrown off the yoke of capitalism, just as the


219








first revolution threw off the yoke of Tsarism. If the first rev¬
olution had the right to suppress the Monarchist papers,
then we have the right to suppress the bourgeois press. It
is impossible to separate the question of the freedom of the
Press from the other questions of the class struggle. We have
promised to close these newspapers, and we shall do it. The
immense majority of the people is with us!

“Now that the insurrection is over, we have absolutely no
desire to suppress the papers of the other Socialist parties,
except inasmuch as they appeal to armed insurrection, or to
disobedience to the Soviet Government. However, we shall
not permit them, under the pretence of freedom of the So¬
cialist press, to obtain, through the secret support of the
bourgeoisie, a monopoly of printing-presses, ink and pa¬
per.... These essentials must become the property of the
Soviet Government, and be apportioned, first of all, to
the Socialist parties in strict proportion to their voting
strength....”

Then the vote. The resolution of Larin and the Left So¬
cialist Revolutionaries was defeated by 31 to 22 1 ; the Lenin
motion was carried by 34 to 24. Among the minority were
the Bolsheviki Riazanov and Lozovsky, who declared that it
was impossible for them to vote for any restriction on the
freedom of the Press.

Upon this the Left Socialist Revolutionaries declared they
could no longer be responsible for what was being done, and
withdrew from the Military Revolutionary Committee and all
other positions of executive responsibility.

Five members—Nogin, Rykov, Miliutin, Teodorovitch and
Shliapnikov—resigned from the Council of People’s Commis¬
sars, declaring:

We are in favour of a Socialist Government composed of all the
parties in the Soviets. We consider that only the creation of such
a Government can possibly guarantee the results of the heroic
struggle of the working-class and the revolutionary army. Outside
of that, there remains only one way: the constitution of a purely
Bolshevik Government by means of political terrorism. This last is
the road taken by the Council of People’s Commissars. We cannot
and will not follow it. We see that this leads direcdy to the elimi¬
nation from political life of many proletarian organisations, to the
establishment of an irresponsible regime, and to the destruction of
the Revolution and the country. We cannot take the responsibility
for such a policy, and we renounce before the Tsay-ee-kah our func¬
tion as People’s Commissars.

Other Commissars, without resigning their positions.


'Not quite correct. The resolution of Larin and the Left Socialist Revo¬
lutionaries was defeated by 25 to 20.— Ed.


220










signed the declaration—Riazanov, Derbychev of the Press
Department, Arbuzov, of the Government Printing-plant,
Yureniev, of the Red Guards, Feodorov, of the Commissariat
of Labour, and Larin, secretary of the Section of Elabora¬
tion of Decrees.

At the same time Kameniev, Rykov, Miliutin, Zinoviev and
Nogin resigned from the Central Committee of the Bolshevik
party, making public their reasons:

...The constitution of such a Government (composed of all the
parties of the Soviet) is indispensable to prevent a new flow of
blood, the coming famine, the destruction of the Revolution by the
Kaledinists, to assure the convocation of the Constituent Assembly
at the proper time, and to apply effectively the programme adopted
by the Congress of Soviets....

We cannot accept the responsibility for the disastrous policy of
the Central Committee, carried on against the will of an enormous
majority of the proletariat and the soldiers, who are eager to see
the rapid end of the bloodshed between the different political par¬
ties of the democracy.... We renounce our title as members of the
Central Committee, in order to be able to say openly our opinion to
the masses of workers and soldiers....

We leave the Central Committee at the moment of victory; we
cannot calmly look on while the policy of the chiefs of the Cen¬
tral Committee leads toward the loss of the fruits of victory and
the crushing of the proletariat....

The masses of the workers, the soldiers of the garrison,
stirred restlessly, sending their delegations to Smolny, to the
Conference for Formation of the New Government, where
the break in the ranks of the Bolsheviki caused the liveliest

joy-

But the answer of the Leninites was swift and ruthless.
Shliapnikov and Teodorovitch submitted to party discipline
and returned to their posts. Kameniev was stripped of his
powers as president of the Tsay-ee-kah, and Sverdlov elect¬
ed in his place. Zinoviev was deposed as president of the
Petrograd Soviet. On the morning of the 5th, Pravda con¬
tained a ferocious proclamation to the people of Russia,
written by Lenin, which was printed in hundreds of thou¬
sands of copies, posted on the walls everywhere, and dis¬
tributed over the face of Russia. 1

The second All-Russian Congress of Soviets gave the majority to
the Bolshevik party. Only a Government formed by this party can
therefore be a Soviet Government. And it is known to all that the


•The reference is to the appeal written by Lenin on November 5-6
and published in Pravda on November 7(20), 1917, under the title, "From the
Central Committee of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party (Bolshe¬
viks) to All Members of the Party and AH Working-Classes of Russia.”—
Ed.


221










Central Committee of the Bolshevik party, a few hours before the
formation of the new Government and before proposing the list of
its members to the All-Russian Congress of Soviets, invited to its
meeting three of the most eminent members of the Left Socialist
Revolutionary group, comrades Kamkov, Spiro and Karelin, and
asked them to participate in the new Government. We regret infi¬
nitely that the invited comrades refused; we consider their refusal
inadmissible for revolutionists and champions of the working-class;
we are willing at any time to include the Left Socialist Revolution¬
aries in the Government; but we declare that, as the party of the
majority at the second All-Russian Congress of Soviets, we are en¬
titled and bound before the people to form a Government....

...Comrades! Several members of the Central Committee of our
party and the Council of People’s Commissars, Kameniev, Zinoviev,
Nogin, Rykov, Miliutin and a few others left yesterday, Novem¬
ber 4th/17th/, the Central Committee of our party, and the last
three, the Council of People’s Commissars....

The comrades who left us acted like deserters, because they not
only abandoned the posts entrusted to them, but also disobeyed
the direct instructions of the Central Committee of our party, to
the effect that they should await the decisions of the Petrograd
and Moscow party organisations before retiring. We blame decisive¬
ly such desertion. We are firmly convinced that all conscious work¬
ers, soldiers and peasants, belonging to our party or sympathis¬
ing with it, will also disapprove of the behaviour of the desert¬
ers....

Remember, comrades, that two of these deserters, Kameniev and
Zinoviev, even before the uprising in Petrograd, appeared as de¬
serters and strike-breakers, by voting at the decisive meeting of the
Central Committee, October 23rd, 1917, against the insurrection;
and even after the resolution passed by the Central Committee,
they continued their campaign at a meeting of the party workers....
But the great impulse of the masses, the great heroism of millions
of workers, soldiers and peasants, in Moscow, Petrograd, at the
front, in the trenches, in the villages, pushed aside the deserters
as a railway train scatters saw-dust...

Shame upon those who are of little faith, who hesitate, who
doubt, who allow themselves to be frightened by the bourgeoisie,
or who succumb before the cries of the latter’s direct or indirect
accomplices! There is not a shadow of hesitation in the masses of
Petrograd, Moscow, and the rest of Russia....

...We shall not submit to any ultimatums from small groups of
intellectuals which are not followed by the masses, which are prac¬
tically only supported by Kornilovists, Savinkovists, ytinkers, and
so forth....

The response from the whole country was like a blast of
hot storm. The insurgents never got a chance to “say openly
their opinion to the masses of workers and soldiers.” Upon
the Tsay-ee-kah rolled in like breakers the fierce popular con¬
demnation of the “deserters.” For days Smolny was thronged
with angry delegations and committees, from the front, from


222






the Volga, from the Petrograd factories. “Why did they dare
leave the Government? Were they paid by the bourgeoisie to
destroy the Revolution? They must return and submit to the
decisions of the Central Committee!”

Only in the Petrograd garrison was there still uncertainty.
A great soldier meeting was held on November 24th, ad¬
dressed by representatives of all the political parties. By a
vast majority Lenin’s policy was sustained, and the Left So¬
cialist Revolutionaries were told that they must enter the gov¬
ernment....«6»

The Mensheviki delivered a final ultimatum, demanding
that all Ministers and yunkers be released, that all newspapers
be allowed full freedom, that the Red Guard be disarmed
and the garrison put under command of the Duma. To this
Smolny answered that all the Socialist Ministers and also
all but a very few yunkers had been already set free, that all
newspapers were free except the bourgeois press, and that
the Soviet would remain in command of the armed forces....
On the 19th the Conference to Form a New Government dis¬
banded, and the opposition one by one slipped away to Mo-
ghilev, where, under the wing of the General Staff, they
continued to form Government after Government, until the
end....

Meanwhile the Bolsheviki had been undermining the pow¬
er of the Vikzhel. An appeal of the Petrograd Soviet to all
railway workers called upon them to force the Vikzhel to sur¬
render its powers. On the 15th, the Tsay-ee-kah, following
its procedure toward the peasants, called an All-Russian Con¬
gress of Railway Workers for December 1st; the Vikzhel im¬
mediately called its own Congress for two weeks later. On
November 16th, the Vikzhel members took their seats in the
Tsay-ee-kah. On the night of December 2nd, at the opening
session of the All-Russian Congress of Railway Workers,
the Tsay-ee-kah formally offered the post of Commissar of
Ways and Communications to the Vikzhel —which accept¬
ed....

Having settled the question of power, the Bolsheviki
turned their attention to problems of practical administra¬
tion. First of all the city, the country, the Army must be fed.
Bands of sailors and Red Guards scoured the warehouses,
the railway terminals, even the barges in the canals, unearth¬
ing and confiscating thousands of poods 1 of food held by pri¬
vate speculators. Emissaries were sent to the provinces, where
with the assistance of the Land Committees they seized the
store-houses of the great grain-dealers. Expeditions of sail¬
ors, heavily armed, were sent out in groups of five thousand.


1 A pood is thirty-six pounds.


223









to the South, to Siberia, with roving commissions to capture
cities still held by the White Guards, establish order, and get
food. Passenger traffic on the Trans-Siberian Railroad was
suspended for two weeks, while thirteen trains, loaded with
bolts of cloth and bars of iron assembled by the Factory-Shop
Committees, were sent out eastward, each in charge of a
Commissar, to barter with the Siberian peasants for grain
and potatoes....

Kaledin being in possession of the coal-mines of the Don,
the fuel question became urgent. Smolny shut off all elect¬
ric lights in theatres, shops and restaurants, cut down the
number of street-cars, and confiscated the private stores
of fire-wood held by the fuel-dealers.... And when ‘he fac¬
tories of Petrograd were about to close down for lack of
coal, the sailors of the Baltic Fleet turned over to the work¬
ers two hundred thousand poods from the bunkers of battle¬
ships....

Toward the end of November occurred the “wine-pog-
rom”«7» — looting of the wine-cellars—beginning with the
plundering of the Winter Palace vaults. For days there were
drunken soldiers on the streets.... In all this was evident the
hand of the counter-revolutionists, who distributed among the
regiments plans showing the location of the stores of liquor.
The Commissars of Smolny began by pleading and arguing,
which did not stop the growing disorder, followed by pitched
battles between soldiers and Red Guards.... Finally the Mi¬
litary Revolutionary Committee sent out companies of sailors
with machine-guns, who fired mercilessly upon the rioters,
killing many; and by executive order the wine-cellars were
invaded by Committees with hatchets, who smashed the bot¬
tles—or blew them up with dynamite....

Companies of Red Guards, disciplined and well-paid, were
on duty at the headquarters of tne Ward Soviets day and
night, replacing the old Militia. In all quarters of the city
small elective Revolutionary Tribunals were set up by the
workers and soldiers to deal with petty crime....

The great hotels, where the speculators still did a thriving
business, were surrounded by Red Guards, and the speculat¬
ors thrown into jail«8»....

Alert and suspicious, the working-class of the city consti¬
tuted itself a vast spy system, through the servants prying
into bourgeois households, and reporting all information to
the Military Revolutionary Committee, which struck with an
iron hand, unceasing. In this way was discovered the Monar¬
chist plot led by former Duma-member Purishkevitch and a
group of nobles and officers, who had planned an officers’
uprising, and had written a letter inviting Kaledin to Pet-
rograd«9».... In this way was unearthed the conspiracy of the


224








Petrograd Cadets, who were sending money and recruits to
Kaledin....

Neratov, frightened at the outburst of popular fury pro¬
voked by his flight, returned and surrendered the Secret
Treaties to Trotzky, who began their publication in Pravda,
scandalising the world....

The restrictions on the Press were increased by a de¬
cree* 10» making advertisements a monopoly of the official
Government newspaper. At this all the other papers suspend¬
ed publication as a protest, or disobeyed the law and were
closed.... Only three weeks later did they finally submit.

Still the strike of the Ministries went on, still the sabotage
of the old officials, the stoppage of normal economic life.
Behind Smolny was only the will of the vast, unorganised
popular masses; and with them the Council of People’s Com¬
missars dealt, directing revolutionary mass action against its
enemies.«ll» In eloquent proclamations,* 12» couched in sim¬
ple words and spread over Russia, Lenin explained the Revo¬
lution, urged tne people to take the power into their own
hands, by force to break down the resistance of the propertied
classes, by force to take over the institutions of Government.
Revolutionary order. Revolutionary discipline! Strict account¬
ing and control! No strikes! No loafing!«13»

On the 20th of November the Military Revolutionary Com¬
mittee issued a warning:


The rich classes oppose the power of the Soviets—the Govern¬
ment of workers, soldiers and peasants. Their sympathisers halt
the work of the employees of the Government and the Duma, incite
strikes in the banks, try to interrupt communication by the rail¬
ways, the post and the telegraph....

We warn them that they are playing with fire. The country and
the Army are threatened with famine. To fight against it, the reg¬
ular functioning of all services is indispensable. The Workers’ and
Peasants’ Government is taking every measure to assure the coun¬
try and the Army all that is necessary. Opposition to these measures
is a crime against the People. We warn the rich classes and their
sympathisers that, if they do not cease their sabotage and their
provocation in halting the transportation of food, they will be the
first to suffer. They will be deprived of the right of receiving food.
All the reserves which they possess will be requisitioned. The prop¬
erty of the principal criminals will be confiscated.

We have done our duty in warning those who play with fire.

We are convinced that in case decisive measures become neces¬
sary, we shall be solidly supported by all workers, soldiers, and
peasants.

On the 22nd of November the walls of the city were plac¬
arded with a sheet headed “Extraordinary Communication”:


15-253


225






The Council of People’s Commissars has received an urgent tele¬
gram from the Staff of the Northern Front....

“There must be no further delay; do not let the Army die of
hunger; the armies of the Northern Front have not received a
crust of bread for several days now, and in two or three days they
will not have any more biscuits—which are being doled out to them
from reserve supplies until now never touched.... Already dele¬
gates from all parts of the front are talking of a necessary re¬
moval of part of the Army to the rear, foreseeing that in a few
days there will be headlong flight of the soldiers, dying from
hunger, ravaged by the three years’ war in the trenches, sick, in¬
sufficiently clothed, bare-footed, driven mad by superhuman mis¬
ery.”

The Military Revolutionary Committee brings this to the notice
of the Petrograd garrison and the workers of Petrograd. The sit¬
uation at the front demands the most urgent and decisive meas¬
ures.... Meanwhile the higher functionaries of the Government
institutions, banks, railroads, post and telegraph, are on strike and
impeding the work of the Government in supplying the front with
provisions.... Each hour of delay may cost the life of thousands of
soldiers. The counter-revolutionary functionaries are the most dis¬
honest criminals toward their hungry and dying brethren at the
front....

The Military Revolutionary Committee gives these criminals a last
warning. In event of the least resistance or opposition on their part,
the harshness of the measures which will be adopted against them
will correspond to the seriousness of their crime....

The masses of workers and soldiers responded by a savage
tremor of rage, which swept all Russia. In the capital the
Government and bank employees got out hundreds of pro¬
clamations and appeals,«14» protesting, defending them¬
selves, such as this one:


To the Attention of All Citizens.

The State Bank is Closed!

Why?

Because the violence exercised by the Bolsheviki against the
State Bank has made it impossible for us to work. The first act
of the People’s Commissars was to demand Ten Million Roubles,
and on November 27th they demanded Twenty-Five Millions, with¬
out any indication as to where this money was to go.

...We functionaries cannot take part in plundering the people’s
property. We stopped work.

Citizens! The money in the State Bank is yours, the people’s
money, acquired by your labour, your sweat and blood. Citizens!
Save the people’s property from robbery, and us from violence, and
we shall immediately resume work.


Employees of the State Bank.


226







From the Ministry of Supplies, the Ministry of Finance,
from the Special Supply Committee, declarations that the
Military Revolutionary Committee made it impossible for the
employees to work, appeals to the population to support
them against Smolny.... But the dominant worker and soldier
did not believe them; it was firmly fixed in the popular mind
that the employees were sabotaging, starving the Army,
starving the people.... In the long bread lines, which as for¬
merly stood in the iron winter streets, it was not the Govern¬
ment which was blamed, as it had been under Kerensky, but
the tchinovniki, the sabotageurs; for the Government was their
Government, their Soviets—and the functionaries of the Min¬
istries were against it....

At the centre of all this opposition was the Duma, and its
militant organ, the Committee for Salvation, protesting
against all the decrees of the Council of People’s Commis¬
sars, voting again and again not to recognise the Soviet Gov¬
ernment, openly co-operating with the new counter-revolu¬
tionary “Governments” set up at Moghilev.... On the 17th of
November, for example, the Committee for Salvation ad¬
dressed “all Municipal Governments, Zemstvos, and all de¬
mocratic and revolutionary organisations of peasants, work¬
ers, soldiers and other citizens,” in these words:

Do not recognise the Government of the Bolsheviki, and struggle
against it.

Form local Committees for Salvation of Country and Revolution,
who will unite all democratic forces, so as to aid the All-Russian
Committee for Salvation in the tasks which it has set itself....

Meanwhile the elections for the Constituent Assembly in
Petrograd« 15» gave an enormous plurality to the Bolsheviki;
so that even the Mensheviki Internationalists pointed out that
the Duma ought to be re-elected, as it no longer represented
the political composition of the Petrograd population.... At
the same time floods of resolutions from workers’ organisa¬
tions, from military units, even from the peasants in the sur¬
rounding country, poured in upon the Duma, calling it
“counter-revolutionary, Kornilovitz,” and demanding that it
resign. The last days of the Duma were stormy with the bit¬
ter demands of the Municipal workers for decent living
wages, and the threat of strikes....

On the 23rd a formal decree of the Military Revolutionary
Committee dissolved the Committee for Salvation. On the
29th, the Council of People’s Commissars ordered the disso¬
lution and re-election of tne Petrograd City Duma:

In view of the fact that the Central Duma of Petrograd, elected
September 2nd ... has definitely lost the right to represent the

227

15 *







population of Petrograd, being in complete disaccord with its state
of mind and its aspirations ... and in view of the fact that the per¬
sonnel of the Duma majority, although having lost all political fol¬
lowing, continues to make use of its prerogatives to resist in a
counter-revolutionary manner the will of the workers, soldiers and
peasants, to sabotage and obstruct the normal work of the Govern¬
ment—the Council of People’s Commissars considers it its duty to
invite the population of the capital to pronounce judgment on the
policy of the organ of Municipal autonomy.

To this end the Council of People’s Commissars resolves:

(1) To dissolve the Municipal Duma; the dissolution to take effect
November 30th, 1917.

(2) All functionaries elected or appointed by the present Duma
shall remain at their posts and fulfil the duties confided to them,
until their places shall be filled by representatives of the new Duma.

(3) All Municipal employees shall continue to fulfil their duties;
those who leave the service of their own accord shall be considered
discharged.

(4) The new elections for the Municipal Duma of Petrograd are
fixed for December 9th, 1917....

(5) The Municipal Duma of Petrograd shall meet December 11th,
1917, at two o’clock.

(6) Those who disobey this decree, as well as those who inten¬
tionally harm or destroy the property of the Municipality, shall be
immediately arrested and brought before the Revolutionary Tribu¬
nals....


The Duma met defiantly, passing resolutions to the effect
that it would “defend its position to the last drop of its
blood,” and appealing desperately to the population to save
their “own elected City Government.” But the population re¬
mained indifferent or hostile. On the 30th Mayor Schreider
and several members were arrested, interrogated, and re¬
leased. That day and the next the Duma continued to meet,
interrupted frequently by Red Guards and sailors, who po¬
litely requested the assembly to disperse. At the meeting of
December 2nd, an officer and some sailors entered the Nico¬
lai Hall while a member was speaking, and ordered the
members to leave, or force would be used. They did so, pro¬
testing to the last, but finally “ceding to violence.”

The new Duma, which was elected ten days later, and for
which the “Moderate” Socialists refused to vote, was almost
entirely Bolshevik.«16»

There remained several centres of dangerous opposition,
such as the “republics” of Ukraine and Finland, which were
showing definitely anti-Soviet tendencies. Both at Helsing¬
fors and at Kiev the Governments were gathering troops
which could be depended upon, and entering upon cam¬
paigns of crushing Bolshevism, and of disarming and expell¬
ing Russian troops. The Ukrainian Rada had taken com-


228






mand of all southern Russia, and was furnishing Kaledin
reinforcements and supplies. Both Finland and the Ukraine
were beginning secret negotiations with the Germans, and
were promptly recognised by the Allied Governments, which
loaned them huge sums of money, joining with the proper¬
tied classes to create counter-revolutionary centres of attack
upon Soviet Russia. In the end, when Bolshevism had con¬
quered in both these countries, the defeated bourgeoisie
called in the Germans to restore them to power....

But the most formidable menace to the Soviet Government
was internal and two-headed — the Kaledin movement, and
the Staff at Moghilev, where General Dukhonin had assumed
command.

The ubiquitous Muraviov was appointed commander of
the war against the Cossacks, and a Red Army was recruited
from among the factory workers. Hundreds of propagandists
were sfent to the Don. The Council of People’s Commissars
issued a proclamation to the Cossacks,«17» explaining what
the Soviet Government was, how the propertied classes, the
tchinovniki, landlords, bankers and their allies, the Cossack
princes, land-owners and Generals, were trying to destroy
the Revolution, and prevent the confiscation of their wealth
by the people.

On November 27th a committee of Cossacks came to Smol-
ny to see Trotzky and Lenin. They demanded if it were true
that the Soviet Government did not intend to divide the
Cossack lands among the peasants of Great Russia? “No,”
answered Trotzky. The Cossacks deliberated for a while.
“Well,” they asked, “does the Soviet Government intend to
confiscate the estates of our great Cossack land-owners and
divide them among the working Cossacks?” To this Lenin
replied. “That,” he said, “is for you to do. We shall support
the working Cossacks in all their actions.... The best way to
begin is to form Cossack Soviets; you will be given repre¬
sentation in the Tsay-ee-kah, and then it will be your Govern¬
ment, too....”

The Cossacks departed, thinking hard. Two weeks later
General Kaledin received a deputation from his troops. “Will
you,” they asked, “promise to divide the great estates of the
Cossack landlords among the working Cossacks?”

“Only over my dead body,” responded Kaledin. A month
later, seeing his army melt away before his eyes, Kaledin
blew out his brains. And the Cossack movement was no
more....

Meanwhile at Moghilev were gathered the old Tsay-ee-kah,
the “moderate” Socialist leaders—from Avksentiev to Tcher-
nov—the active chiefs of the old Army Committees, and the


229





reactionary officers. The Staff steadily refused to recognise
the Council of People’s Commissars. It had united about it
the Death Battalions, the Knights of St. George, and the
Cossacks of the front, and was in close and secret touch with
the Allied military attaches, and with the Kaledin movement
and the Ukrainian Rada....

The Allied Governments had made no reply to the Peace
decree of November 8th, in which the Congress of Soviets
had asked for a general armistice.

On November 20th Trotzky addressed a note to the Allied
Ambassadors:«18»

I have the honour to inform you, Mr. Ambassador, that the All-
Russian Congress of Soviets ... on November 8th constituted a new
Government of the Russian Republic, in the form of the Council of
People’s Commissars. The President of this Government is Vladimir
Ilyitch Lenin. The direction of Foreign Affairs has been entrust¬
ed to me, as People’s Commissar for Foreign Affairs....

In drawing your attention to the text, approved by the All Rus¬
sian Congress, of the proposition for an armistice and a democratic
peace without annexations or indemnities, based on the right of
self-determination of peoples, I have the honour to request you to
consider that document as a formal proposal of an immediate ar¬
mistice on all fronts, and the opening of immediate peace nego¬
tiations; a proposal which the authorised Government of the Rus¬
sian Republic addresses at the same time to all the belligerent peo¬
ples and their Governments.

Please accept, Mr. Ambassador, the profound assurance of the
esteem of the Soviet Government toward your people, who cannot
but wish for peace, like all the other peoples exhausted and drained
by this unexampled butchery....

The same night the Council of People’s Commissars tele¬
graphed to General Dukhonin:

...The Council of People’s Commissars considers it indispens¬
able without delay to make a formal proposal of armistice to
all the powers, both enemy and Allied. A declaration conform¬
ing to this decision has been sent by the Commissar for Foreign
Affairs to the representatives of the Allied powers in Petro-
grad.

The Council of People’s Commissars orders you. Citizen Com¬
mander ... to propose to the enemy military authorities immedi¬
ately to cease hostilities, and enter into negotiations for peace. In
charging you with the conduct of these preliminary pourparlers,
the Council of People’s Commissars orders you:

1. To inform the Council by direct wire immediately of any and
all steps in the pourparlers with the representatives of the enemy
armies.

2. Not to sign the act of armistice until it has been passed upon
by the Council of People’s Commissars.


230









The Allied Ambassadors received Trotzky’s note with con¬
temptuous silence, accompanied by anonymous interviews in
the newspapers, full of spite and ridicule. The order to
Dukhonin was characterised openly as an act of treason....

As for Dukhonin, he gave no sign. On the night of No¬
vember 22nd he was communicated with by telephone, and
asked if he intended to obey the order. Dukhonin answered
that he could not, unless it emanated from “a Government
sustained by the Army and the country.”

By telegraph he was immediately dismissed from the post
of Supreme Commander, and Krylenko appointed in his
place. Following his tactics of appealing to the masses, Lenin
sent a radio to all regimental, divisional and corps Com¬
mittees, to all soldiers and sailors of the Army and the Fleet,
acquainting them with Dukhonin’s refusal, and ordering that
“the regiments on the front shall elect delegates to begin ne¬
gotiations with the enemy detachments opposite their posi¬
tions....”

On the 23rd, the military attaches of the Allied nations,
acting on instructions from their Governments, presented a
note to Dukhonin, in which he was solemnly warned not to
“violate the conditions of the treaties concluded between the
Powers of the Entente.” The note went on to say that if a
separate armistice with Germany were concluded, that act
“would result in the most serious consequences” to Russia.
This communication Dukhonin at once sent out to all the
soldiers’ Committees....

Next morning Trotzky made another appeal to the troops,
characterising the note of the Allied representatives as a
flagrant interference in the internal affairs of Russia, and
a bald attempt “to force by threats the Russian Army and the
Russian people to continue the war in execution of the trea¬
ties concluded by the Tsar....”

From Smolny poured out proclamation after proclama¬
tion, «19» denouncing Dukhonin and the counter-revolution¬
ary officers about him, denouncing the reactionary politicians
gathered at Moghilev, rousing, from one end of the thousand-
mile front to the other, millions of angry, suspicious soldiers.
And at the same time Krylenko, accompanied by three de¬
tachments of fanatical sailors, set out for the Stavka, breath¬
ing threats of vengeance,«20» and received by the soldiers
everywhere with tremendous ovations—a triumphal progress.
The Central Army Committee issued a declaration in favour
of Dukhonin; and at once ten thousand troops moved upon
Moghilev....

On December 2nd the garrison of Moghilev rose and
seized the city, arresting Dukhonin and the Army Commit¬
tee, and going out with victorious red banners to meet the


231








new Supreme Commander. Krylenko entered Moghilev next
morning, to find a howling mob gathered about the railway-
car in which Dukhonin had been imprisoned. Krylenko made
a speech in which he implored the soldiers not to harm
Dukhonin, as he was to be taken to Petrograd and judged
by the Revolutionary Tribunal. When he had finished, sud¬
denly Dukhonin himself appeared at the window, as if to
address the throng. But with a savage roar the people rushed
to the car, and falling upon the old General, dragged him
out and beat him to death on the platform....

So ended the revolt of the Stavka....

Immensely strengthened by the collapse of the last impor¬
tant stronghold of hostile military power in Russia, the So¬
viet Government began with confidence the organisation of
the state. Many of the old functionaries flocked to its ban¬
ner, and many members of other parties entered the Gov¬
ernment service. The financially ambitious, however, were
checked by the decree on Salaries of Government Employees,
fixing the salaries of the People’s Commissars—the highest—
at five hundred roubles (about fifty dollars) a month.... The
strike of Government Employees, led by the Union of
Unions, collapsed, deserted by the financial and commercial
interests which had been backing it. The bank clerks re¬
turned to their jobs....

With the decree on the Nationalisation of Banks, the for¬
mation of the Supreme Council of People’s Economy, the
putting into practical operation of the Land decree in the
villages, the democratic reorganisation of the Army, and the
sweeping changes in all branches of the Government and of
life—with all these, effective only by the will of the masses
of workers, soldiers and peasants, slowly began, with many
mistakes and hitches, the moulding of proletarian Russia.

Not by compromise with the propertied classes, or with the
other political leaders; not by conciliating the old Govern¬
ment mechanism, did the Bolsheviki conquer the power. Nor
by the organised violence of a small clique. If the masses all
over Russia had not been ready for insurrection it must have
failed. The only reason for Bolshevik success lay in their ac¬
complishing the vast and simple desires of the most pro¬
found strata of the people, calling them to the work of tear¬
ing down and destroying the old, and afterward, in the
smoke of falling ruins, co-operating with them to erect the
frame-work of the new....







Chapter XII

THE PEASANTS’ CONGRESS


It was on November 18th that the snow came. In the
morning we woke to window-ledges heaped white, and snow¬
flakes falling so whirling thick that it was impossible to see
ten feet ahead. The mud was gone; in a twinkling the
gloomy city became white, dazzling. The droshki with their
padded coachmen turned into sleighs, bounding along the
uneven street at headlong speed, their drivers’ beards stiff
and frozen.... In spite of Revolution, all Russia plunging
dizzily into the unknown and terrible future, joy swept the
city with the coming of the snow. Everybody was smiling;
people ran into the streets, holding out their arms to the
soft, falling flakes, laughing. Hidden was all the greyness;
only the gold and coloured spires and cupolas, with height¬
ened barbaric splendour, gleamed through the white snow.

Even the sun came out, pale and watery, at noon. The
cold and rheumatism of the rainy months vanished. The
life of the city grew gay, and the very Revolution ran
swifter....

I sat one evening in a traktir —a kind of lower-class inn—
across the street from the gates of Smolny; a low-ceilinged,
loud place called “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” much frequented by
Red Guards. They crowded it now, packed close around the
little tables with their dirty table-cloths and enormous china
tea-pots, filling the place with foul cigarette-smoke, while
the harassed waiters ran about crying “ Seichass\ Seichass !
In a minute! Right away!”

In one corner sat a man in the uniform of a captain,
addressing the assembly, which interrupted him at every
few words.

“You are no better than murderers!” he cried. “Shooting
down your Russian brothers on the streets!”

“When did we do that?” asked a worker.

“Last Sunday, you did it, when the yunkers — ”

“Well, didn’t they shoot us?” One man exhibited his arm
in a sling. “Haven’t I got something to remember them by,
the devils?”

The captain shouted at the top of his voice. “You should
remain neutral! You should remain neutral! Who are you to


233





destroy the legal Government? Who is Lenin? A German—”

“Who are you? A counter-revolutionist! A provocator!”
they bellowed at him.

When he could make himself heard the captain stood up.
“All right!” said he. “You call yourselves the people of
Russia. But you’re not the people of Russia. The peasants
are the people of Russia. Wait until the peasants—”

“Yes,” they cried, “wait until the peasants speak. We know
what the peasants will say.... Aren t they working-men like
ourselves?”

In the long run, everything depended upon the peasants.
While the peasants had been politically backward, still they
had their own peculiar ideas, and they constituted more
than eighty per cent of the people of Russia. The Bolshe-
viki had a comparatively small following among the peasants;
and a permanent dictatorship of Russia by the industrial
workers was impossible.... The traditional peasant party was
the Socialist Revolutionary party; of all the parties now sup¬
porting the Soviet Government, the Left Socialist Revolution¬
aries were the logical inheritors of peasant leadership—
and the Left Socialist Revolutionaries, who were at the mercy
of the organised city proletariat, desperately needed the
backing of the peasants....

Meanwhile Smolny had not neglected the peasants. After
the Land decree, one of the first actions of the new Tsay-
ee-kah had been to call a Congress of Peasants, over the head
of the Executive Committee of the Peasants’ Soviets. A few
days later was issued detailed Regulations for the Volost
(Township) Land Committees, followed by Lenin’s “Instruc¬
tion to Peasants,”«1» which explained the Bolshevik revolu¬
tion and the new Government in simple terms; and on
November 16th Lenin and Miliutin published the “Instruc¬
tions to Provincial Emissaries,” of whom thousands were
sent by the Soviet Government into the villages.


1. Upon his arrival in the province to which he is accredited,
the emissary should call a joint meeting of the Central Executive
Committees of the Soviets of Workers’, Soldiers’ and Peasants’
Deputies, to whom he should make a report on the agrarian laws,
and then demand that a joint plenary session of the Soviets be
summoned....

2. He must study the aspects of the agrarian problem in the
province.

a. Has the land-owners’ property been taken over, and if so, in
what districts?

b. Who administers the confiscated land—the former proprietor,
or the Land Committees?

c. What has been done with the agricultural machinery and with
the farm-animals?


234







3. Has the ground cultivated by the peasants been augmented?

4. How much and in what respect does the amount of land now
under cultivation differ from the amount fixed by the Govern¬
ment as an average minimum?

5. The emissary must insist that, after the peasants have received
the land, it is imperative that they increase the amount of cultivated
land as quickly as possible, and that they hasten the sending of
grain to the cities, as the only means of avoiding famine.

6. What are the measures projected or put into effect for the
transfer of land from the land-owners to the Land Committees and
similar bodies appointed by the Soviets?

7. It is desirable that agricultural properties well appointed and
well organised should be administered by Soviets composed of the
regular employees of those properties, under the direction of com¬
petent agricultural scientists.


All through the villages a ferment of change was going
on, caused not only by the electrifying action of the Land
decree, but also by thousands of revolutionary-minded peas¬
ant-soldiers returning from the front.... These men, espe¬
cially, welcomed the call to a Congress of Peasants.

Like the old Tsay-ee-kah in the matter of the second Con¬
gress of Workers’ and Soldiers’ Soviets, the Executive Com¬
mittee tried to prevent the Peasant Congress summoned by
Smolny. And line the old Tsay-ee-kah, finding its resistance
futile, the Executive Committee sent frantic telegrams order¬
ing the election of Conservative delegates. Word was even
spread among the peasants that the Congress would meet at
Moghilev, and some delegates went there; but bv November
23rd about four hundred had gathered in Petrograd, and
the party caucuses had begun....

The first session took place in the Alexander Hall of the
Duma building, and the first vote showed that more than half
of all the delegates were Left Socialist Revolutionaries, while
the Bolsheviki controlled a bare fifth, the conservative Social¬
ist Revolutionaries a quarter, and all the rest were united
only in their opposition to the old Executive Committee, dom¬
inated by Avksentiev, Tchaikovsky and Peshekhonov....

The great hall was jammed with people and shaken with
continual clamour; deep, stubborn bitterness divided the
delegates into angry groups. To the right was a sprinkling
of officers’ epaulets, and the patriarchal, bearded faces of
the older, more substantial peasants; in the centre were a
few peasants, non-commissioned officers, and some soldiers;
and on the left almost all the delegates wore the uniforms
of common soldiers. These last were the young generation,
who had been serving in the army.... The galleries were
thronged with workers—who, in Russia, still remember
their peasant origin....


235







Unlike the old Tsay-ee-kah, the Executive Committee, in
opening the session, did not recognise the Congress as of¬
ficial; the official Congress was called for December 13th;
amid a hurricane of applause and angry cries, the speaker
declared that this gathering was merely “Extraordinary Con¬
ference”.... But the “Extraordinary Conference” soon
showed its attitude toward the Executive Committee by
electing as presiding officer Maria Spiridonova, leader of
the Left Socialist Revolutionaries.

Most of the first day was taken up by a violent debate as to
whether the representatives of Volost Soviets should be seated,
or only delegates from the Provincial bodies; and just as in
the Workers’ and Soldiers’ Congress, an overwhelming
majority declared in favour of the widest possible represent¬
ation. Whereupon the old Executive Committee left the hall....

Almost immediately it was evident that most of the dele¬
gates were hostile to the Government of the People’s Com¬
missars. Zinoviev, attempting to speak for the Bolsheviki,
was hooted down, and as he left the platform, amid laughter,
there were cries, “There’s how a People’s Commissar sits
in a mud-puddle!”

“We Left Socialist Revolutionaries refuse,” cried Naza-
riev, a delegate from the Provinces, “to recognise this so-
called Workers’ and Peasants’ Government until the peasants
are represented in it. At present it is nothing but a dictator¬
ship of the workers.... We insist upon the formation of a
new Government which will represent the entire democracy!”

The reactionary delegates shrewdly fostered this feeling,
declaring, in the face of protests from the Bolshevik benches,
that the Council of People’s Commissars intended either to
control the Congress or dissolve it by force of arms—an an¬
nouncement which was received by the peasants with bursts
of fury....

On the third day Lenin suddenly mounted the tribune;
for ten minutes the room went mad. “Down with him!” they
shrieked. “We will not listen to any of your People’s Com¬
missars! We don’t recognise your Government!”

Lenin stood there quite calmly, gripping the desk with
both hands, his little eyes thoughtfully surveying the tumult
beneath. Finally, except for the right side of the hall, the
demonstration wore itself out somewhat.

“I do not come here as a member of the Council of Peo¬
ple’s Commissars,” said Lenin, and waited again for the
noise to subside, “but as a member of the Bolshevik faction,
duly elected to this Congress.” And he held his credentials
up so that all might see them.

“However,” he went on, in an unmoved voice, “nobody
will deny that the present Government of Russia has been


236





formed by the Bolshevik party—” he had to wait a moment,
“so that for all purposes it is the same thing....” Here the
right benches broke into deafening clamour, but the centre
and left were curious, and compelled silence.

Lenin’s argument was simple. “Tell me frankly, you peas¬
ants, to whom we have given the lands of the pomieshtchiki ;
do you want now to prevent the workers from getting
control of industry? This is class war. The pomieshtchiki of
course oppose the peasants, and the manufacturers oppose
the workers. Are you going to allow the ranks of the proleta¬
riat to be divided? Which side will you be on?

“We, the Bolsheviki, are the party of the proletariat—
of the peasant proletariat as well as the industrial proleta¬
riat. We, the Bolsheviki, are the protectors of the Soviets—
of the Peasants’ Soviets as well as those of the Workers and
Soldiers. The present Government is a Government of So¬
viets; we have not only invited the Peasants’ Soviets to join
that Government, but we have also invited representatives
of the Left Socialist Revolutionaries to enter the Council
of People’s Commissars....

“The Soviets are the most perfect representatives of the
people—of the workers in the factories and mines, of the
workers in the fields. Anybody who attempts to destroy the
Soviets is guilty of an anti-democratic and counter-revolu¬
tionary act. And I serve notice here on you, comrades Right
Socialist Revolutionaries—and on you, Messrs. Cadets—that
if the Constituent Assembly attempts to destroy the So¬
viets, we shall not permit the Constituent Assembly to do
this thing!”

On the afternoon of November 25th Tchernov arrived in
hot haste from Moghilev, summoned by the Executive Com¬
mittee. Only two months before considered an extreme rev¬
olutionist, and very popular with the peasants, he was now
called to check the dangerous drift of the Congress toward
the Left. Upon his arrival Tchernov was arrested and taken to
Smolny, where, after a short conversation, he was released.

His first act was to bitterly rebuke the Executive Com¬
mittee for leaving the Congress. They agreed to return, and
Tchernov entered the hall, welcomed with great applause
by the majority, and the hoots and jeers of tne Bolsheviki.

“Comrades! I have been away. I participated in the Con¬
ference of the Twelfth Army on the question of calling a
Congress of all the Peasant delegates of the armies of the
Western Front, and I know very little about the insurrecuon
which occurred here—”

Zinoviev rose in his seat, and shouted, “Yes, you were
away—for a few minutes!” Fearful tumult. Cries, “Down
with the Bolsheviki!”


237














Tchernov continued. “The accusation that I helped lead
an army on Petrograd has no foundation, and is entirely
false. Where does such an accusation come from? Show me
the source!”

Zinoviev: “ Isviestia and Dielo Naroda —your own paper—
that’s where it comes from!”

Tchernov’s wide face, with the small eyes, waving hair
and greyish beard, became red with wrath, but he controlled
himself and went on. “I repeat, I know practically nothing
about what has happened here, and I did not lead any army
except this army (he pointed to the peasant delegates), which
I am largely responsible for bringing here!” Laughter, and
shouts of “Bravo!”

“Upon my return I visited Smolny. No such accusation
was made against me there.... After a brief conversation I
left—and that’s all! Let any one present make such an ac¬
cusation!”

An uproar followed, in which the Bolsheviki and some
of the Left Socialist Revolutionaries were on their feet all
at once, shaking their fists and yelling, and the rest of the
assembly tried to yell them down.

“This is an outrage, not a session!” cried Tchernov, and
he left the hall; the meeting was adjourned because of the
noise and disorder....

Meanwhile, the question of the status of the Executive
Committee was agitating all minds. By declaring the assembly
“Extraordinary Conference,” it had been planned to block
the re-election of the Executive Committee. But this worked
both ways; the Left Socialist Revolutionaries decided that if
the Congress had no power over the Executive Committee,
then the Executive Committee had no power over the Con¬
gress. On November 25th the assembly resolved that the
powers of the Executive Committee be assumed by the Ex¬
traordinary Conference, in which only members of the
Executive who had been elected as delegates might vote....

The next day, in spite of the bitter opposition of the Bol¬
sheviki, the resolution was amended to give all the members
of the Executive Committee, whether elected as delegates or
not, voice and vote in the assembly.

On the 27th occurred the debate on the Land question,
which revealed the differences between the agrarian pro¬
gramme of the Bolsheviki and the Left Socialist Revolution¬
aries.

Kolchinsky, for the Left Socialist Revolutionaries, out¬
lined the history of the Land question during the Revolu¬
tion. The first Congress of Peasants’ Soviets, he said, had
voted a precise and formal resolution in favour of putting
the landed estates immediately into the hands of the Land


238







Committees. But the directors of the Revolution, and the
bourgeois in the Government, had insisted that the question
could not be solved until the Constituent Assembly met....
The second period of the Revolution, the period of “com¬
promise,” was signalled by the entrance of Tchernov into
the Cabinet. The peasants were convinced that now the prac¬
tical solution of the Land question would begin; but in spite
of the imperative decision of the first Peasant Congress, the
reactionaries and conciliators in the Executive Committee
had prevented any action. This policy provoked a series of
agrarian disorders, which appeared as the natural expres¬
sion of impatience and thwarted energy on the part of the
peasants. The peasants understood the exact meaning of the
Revolution—they tried to turn words into action....

“The recent events,” said the orator, “do not indicate a
simple riot, or a ‘Bolshevik adventure,’ but on the contrary,
a real popular rising, which has been greeted with sympathy
by the whole country....

“The Bolsheviki in general took the correct attitude
toward the Land question; but in recommending that the
peasants seize the land by force, they committed a profound
error.... From the first days, the Bolsheviki declared that
the peasants should take over the land ‘by revolutionary
mass-action.’ This is nothing but anarchy; the land can be
taken over in an organised manner.... For the Bolsheviki it
was important that the problems of the Revolution should be
solved in the quickest possible manner—but the Bolsheviki
were not interested in how these problems were to be solved....

“The Land decree of the Congress of Soviets is identical
in its fundamentals with the decisions of the first Peasants’
Congress. Why then did not the new Government follow the
tactics outlined by that Congress? Because the Council of
People’s Commissars wanted to hasten the settlement of the
Land question, so that the Constituent Assembly would have
nothing to do....

“But also the Government saw that it was necessary to
adopt practical measures, so without further reflection, it
adopted the Regulations for Land Committees, thus creat¬
ing a strange situation; for the Council of People’s Com¬
missars abolished private property in land, but the Regula¬
tions drawn up by the Land Committees are based on private
property.... However, no harm has been done by that; for
the Land Committees are paying no attention to the Soviet
decrees, but are putting into operation their own practical
decisions—decisions based on the will of the vast majority
of the peasants....

“These Land Committees are not attempting the legisla¬
tive solution of the Land question, which belongs to the


239









Constituent Assembly alone.... But will the Constituent As¬
sembly desire to do the will of the Russian peasants? Of that
we cannot be sure.... All we can be sure of is that the rev¬
olutionary determination of the peasants is now aroused,
and that the Constituent will be forced to settle the Land
question the way the peasants want it settled.... The Con¬
stituent Assembly will not dare to break with the will of the
people....”

Followed him Lenin, listened to now with absorbing in¬
tensity. “At this moment we are not only trying to solve the
Land question, but the question of Social Revolution—not
only here in Russia, but all over the world. The Land ques¬
tion cannot be solved independently of the other problems
of the Social Revolution.... For example, the confiscation of
the landed estates will provoke the resistance not only of
Russian land-owners, but also of foreign capital—with whom
the great landed properties are connected through the inter¬
mediary of the banks....

’’The ownership of the land in Russia is the basis for im¬
mense oppression, and the confiscation of the land by the
peasants is the most important step of our Revolution. But
it cannot be separated from the other steps, as is clearly man¬
ifested by the stages through which the Revolution has had to
pass. The mistake of the Left Socialist Revolutionaries lies
in the fact that at that time they did not oppose the policy
of compromise, because they held the theory that the consci¬
ousness of the masses was not yet fully developed....

“ If Socialism can only be realised when the intellectual
development of all the people permits it, then we shall not
see Socialism for at least five hundred years.... The Socialist
political party—this is the vanguard of the working-class;
it must not allow itself to be halted by the lack of educa¬
tion of the mass average, but it must lead the masses, using
the Soviets as organs of revolutionary initiative.... But in
order to lead the wavering, the comrades Left Socialist Rev¬
olutionaries themselves must stop hesitating....

”In July last a series of open breaks began between the

E opular masses and the ’compromisers’; but now, in Novem-
er, the Left Socialist Revolutionaries are still holding out
their hand to Avksentiev, who is pulling the people with
his little finger.... If compromise continues, the Revolution
disappears. No compromise with the bourgeoisie is possible;
its power must be absolutely crushed....

“We Bolsheviki have not changed our Land programme;
we have not given up the abolition of private property in
the land, and we do not intend to do so. We adopted the
Regulations for Land Committees—which are not based on
private property at all—because we want to accomplish the


240





popular will in the way the people have themselves decided
to do it, so as to draw closer the coalition of all the elements
who are fighting for the Social Revolution.

“We invite the Left Socialist Revolutionaries to enter that
coalition, insisting, however, that they cease looking back¬
ward, and that they break with the ’conciliators’ of their
party....

”As far as the Constituent Assembly is concerned, it is
true, as the preceding speaker has said, that the work of the
Constituent will depend on the revolutionary determination
of the masses. I say, ’Count on that revolutionary determina¬
tion, but don’t forget your gun!’“

Lenin then read the Bolshevik resolution:


The Peasants’ Congress, fully supporting the Land decree of
November 8th ... approves of the Provisional Workers’ and Peas¬
ants’ Government of the Russian Republic, established by the sec¬
ond All-Russian Congress of Soviets of Workers’ and Soldiers’
Deputies.

The Peasants’ Congress ... invites all peasants unanimously to
sustain that law, and to apply it immediately themselves; and at
the same time invites the peasants to appoint to posts and posi¬
tions of responsibility only persons who have proved, not by words
but by acts, their entire devotion to the interests of the exploited
peasant-workers, their desire and their ability to defend these
interests against all resistance on the part of the great land-owners,
the capitalists, their partisans and accomplices....

The Peasants’ Congress, at the same time, expresses its convic¬
tion that the complete realisation of all the measures which make
up the Land decree