Skip to main content





Sign up for free
Log in
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "War and national finance"
See other formats
WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE


WAR  AND
NATIONAL  FINANCE


BY

THE  HON.  R.   H.  BRAND

FELLOW    OF  ALL   SOULS   COLLEGE,    OXFORD


LONDON

EDWARD    ARNOLD    &    CO.

1921

[All  rights  reserved)


HC'3,SC>


(fh


1


"J I  i'j  *■'•  .^-'


•       o     •


CONTENTS

CHAP.  Pjtoa

Introduction       ........  vii

I    LoMBABD  Street  and  War          .....  1

II    Lombard  Street  in  War 37

III  War  and  Financial  Exhaustion         ....  69

IV  Finance  in  War 94

V    England's  Financial  Task 128

VI    The  British  Empire!s  Financial  Task       .         .         .  147

VII    The  Financial  and  Economic  Future        .         .         .  167

VIII    Finance  and  Reparation 186

IX    The  Financial  and  Economic  Situation    .         .         .  197

X    International  Financial  Co-operation      .         .         .  227

XI    The  Financial  and  Economic  Situation    .         .         .  246

XII    The  International  Financial  Conference  at  Brussels

AND  Its  Lessons      .......  256

Appendix    I.    Europe's    Economic  Needs  : — ^Mr.    Brand's

Address  made  to  the  Brussels  Conference         .  273

Appendix  II.   Memorandum  on  the  Allied  Financial  Position,

August  29.  1916 284


470325


INTRODUCTION

The  articles  which  follow  were  written  for  The  Round
Table  between  the  years  1912  and  1920.  They  all  deal  in  one
way  or  another  with  the  effects  of  war  on  the  financial  and
economic  structure  of  this  country  and  the  British  Empire.  I
make  no  claim  to  be  a  trained  economist,  and  the  articles  were,
all  of  them,  written  in  the  midst  of  a  busy  life  and  from  a
practical  standpoint.  I  have  thought  it  preferable,  never-
theless, to  leave  them  exactly  as  they  were  written,  except  for
the  omission  of  certain  redundant  passages.  The  reader  must
judge  to  what  extent  they  correctly  portrayed  and  predicted
before,  during  and  after  the  war  the  actual  course  of  events.

The  articles  do  not  afford  a  continuous  commentary  on  the
financial  history  of  the  war,  because  owing  to  the  pressure  of
war  work  and  my  absence  for  a  year  in  the  United  States  I
was  unable  to  write  anything  between  the  end  of  1916  and  the
Armistice.  The  last  two  years  of  the  war,  however,  so  far  as
internal  finance  went,  represented  the  continued  application,
on  a  constantly  growing  scale,  of  the  principles  and  methods
elaborated  in  the  first  two  years  ;  so  far  as  concerned  external
finance — by  far  the  greatest  and  most  serious  problem — our
task  was  after  March,  1917,  comparatively  simple  owing  to  the
entry  of  the  United  States  on  our  side.  I  should  mention
that  the  article  bearing  the  title  of  *' Finance  in  War"
was  written  in  collaboration  with  Mr.  F.  Perry,  Quondam
Fellow  of  All  Souls  College,  Oxford ;  that  the  article  on
Reparation  was  written  by  me  after  having  acted  for  three
months  at  the  Peace  Conference  as  Financial  Adviser  to  Lord
Robert  Cecil  in  his  capacity  as  Chairman  of  the  Supreme
Economic  Council ;  and  that  the  article  on  the  Brussels  Con-
ference was  written  after  my  return  from  acting  as  Vice-

vii


vui  INTRODUCTION

President  of  the  International  Financial  Conference  at  Brussels.

It  is  a  common  accusation  against  economists  and  financiers
that  in  1914  they  predicted  that  financial  difficulties  would
bring  the  war  to  an  end  in  a  few  months.  I  do  not  think  that
any  support  for  this  particular  accusation  can  be  found  in  the
following  pages.  In  December,  1914,  I  pointed  out  that  "  all
history  goes  to  show  that  actual  want  of  money  or  financial
distress  has  seldom  brought  a  war  to  an  end  "  ;  and  that  "  so
long  as  a  Government  has  a  printing-press,  it  can  always  make
'  money  '."  I  stated  very  definitely  my  opinion  that,  so  long
as  a  nation  can  "  find  the  absolute  necessities  of  life  and  war-
fare either  by  producing  them  or  buying  them,"  it  can  go  on  so
long  as  it  has  the  will  to  continue  and  that  therefore  even  the
financial  problem  was  largely  psychological.  The  Great  War
has  amply  confirmed  the  correctness  of  these  views.

But  has  tjhe  public  ever  reafized  how  urgent,  as  the  war
went  on  year  after  year,  became  the  question  whether  the  AUies
actually  could  "  find  the  absolute  necessities  of  life  and  war-
fare "  ?  They  certainly  could  not  produce  them.  Could  they
go  on  "  buying  them  "  ?  The  vital  character  of  this  problem
was,  I  think,  never  generally  appreciated,  for  one  reason
because  it  was  highly  important  at  the  time  that  the  true
facts  should  not  be  disclosed.  Indeed,  some  of  the  very  highest
authorities  probably  never  thoroughly  examined  the  problem
or  grasped  what  it  involved,  until  the  fortunate  entry  of  the
United  States  into  the  war  relieved  them  of  the  necessity  of
thinking  about  it  at  all.  It  is,  however,  beyond  doubt  in  my
opinion  that,  had  the  United  States  not  entered  the  war,
financial  difficulties,  in  other  words  inabiUty  to  purchase  what
we  wanted  from  abroad,  would  have  had  the  gravest  conse-
quences on  the  whole  Allied  operations.  I  have  printed  as
an  Appendix  a  memorandum  drawn  up  in  August,  1916,  by
Mr.  Perry  and  myself.  It  was  our  view  that,  while  the  Treasury
fuUy  appreciated  the  seriousness  of  the  situation,  other  Minis-
ters did  not,  and  that  it  was  important  to  draw  their  attention
to  it.  In  our  capacity  as  members  of  the  Imperial  Munitions
Board  of  Canada  we  were  aware  of  the  extent  of  the  financial
obligations  of  the  British  Government  in  the  United  States
and  Canada,  while  our    experience  in  international  finance


INTRODUCTION  ix

gave  us  a  knowledge  of  the  conditions  and  character  of  the
New  York  money  market.  We  predicted,  as  will  be  seen,  that
a  crisis  would  occur  some  time  between  June  and  December,
1917.  It  did  actually  ripen  earlier.  At  the  very  moment
that  the  United  States  came  into  the  war,  the  British  Govern-
ment, with  commitments  in  the  United  States  running  into
hundreds  of  millions  of  pounds,  was  at  the  end  of  its  tether.
It  had  no  means  whatever  of  meeting  them.  Between  that
date  and  the  Armistice  it  borrowed  from  the  American
Government  to  pay  for  "  absolute  necessities  of  life  and
warfare"  not  far  short  of  £1,000,000,000,  while  the  other
Allies  borrowed  roughly  another  £1,000,000,000.  If  we  could
picture  to  our  imaginations  what  these  figures  meant,  when
translated  into  munitions  of  war,  food,  ships  and  so  on,  we
should  begin  to  realize  what  would  have  been  the  effect  on
our  operations  of  going  without  them — as  well  as  without
American  naval  and  military  co-operation  itseK.  Regarded
from  this  aspect  alone,  the  unlimited  submarine  warfare  of  the
Germans  was  one  of  the  most  colossal  mistakes  in  history.  The
financial  blockade,  which  circumstances  would  have  imposed
on  us,  would  have  been  more  effective,  by  itself,  than  was  the
submarine  blockade  after  the  United  States  had  come  in.

Some  people  with  easy  optimism  say  that,  even  if  the
United  States  had  not  come  into  the  war,  the  American  finan-
cial world  would  have  gone  on  lending  the  Allies  as  much  as
they  wanted  or  at  any  rate  very  large  sums,  in  order  to  dispose
of  their  goods  and  products  at  profitable  prices.  That  is  not
my  view  ;  and  surely  it  is  contradicted  by  what  has  happened
since  the  Armistice.  America  has  wished  in  the  last  year  or
two  to  dispose  of  vast  quantities  of  goods,  which  Europe  has
wanted  to  buy.  But  Europe  cannot  pay  for  them  and  the
American  money  market  has  found  it  impossible  to  finance
their  export  on  credit.  The  root  difficulty  has  been  the  in-
capacity of  the  American  investment  market  to  absorb  any  large
quantity  of  foreign  securities.  It  took  a  very  long  time  even
to  absorb  the  Anglo-French  loan  of  £100,000,000  issued  in  1915
when  the  credit  of  both  borrowing  countries  was  undoubted.  I
believe,  indeed,  that  American  financiers  would  have  been
forced  to  devise  some  means  of  financing  the  commitments


X  INTRODUCTION

into  which  Great  Britain  and  the  Allies  had  by  March,  1917,
actually  entered.  For  if  the  Companies,  great  and  small,
which  had  contracted  to  supply  munitions  and  other  supplies,
had  not  been  paid  by  the  Allied  Governments,  they  must  either
have  been  supported  by  their  banks  or  else  gone  bankrupt,  in
which  event,  in  view  of  the  huge  sums  involved,  a  financial
crisis  would  have  been  precipitated.  But  it  can  hardly  be
doubted  that  one  condition  of  any  such  assistance  by  the
American  financial  community,  if  it  had  been  given,  must  have
been,  for  the  sake  of  their  own  self-preservation,  an  extremely
severe  limitation  on  further  purchases.  The  credit  of  England
and  France  would  have  been  entirely  undermined,  as  was
Russia's  already,  and  no  contractor  would  have  accepted  their
orders  without  some  guarantee  of  payment  from  an  American
financial  institution.  In  such  circumstances,  too,  the  normal
reluctance  of  the  American  investor  to  support  foreign  loans
would  have  been  redoubled.

It  is  not  too  much  to  say  that  our  consequent  inability  to
purchase  lavishly  abroad  must  have  profoundly  affected
Allied  military  operations.  The  vast  sums  which,  after  the
entry  of  America  into  the  war,  we  were  able  to  borrow  from
the  United  States  Government,  have  obscured  these  facts.
Fortunately  for  the  first  two  years  of  war  we  were  able  to  live
to  a  great  extent  on  the  sale  of  our  foreign  securities,  which,
as  I  pointed  out  in  1912,  were  likely  "  in  a  time  of  peril "  to
"  prove  the  mainstay  of  our  financial  fabric."

The  articles  written  since  the  Armistice  are  concerned  almost
entirely  with  correcting  what  in  my  opinion  were  certain  false
deductions  from  our  war  experiences,  which  seemed  very
generally  held.  There  was  a  widespread  notion  that  we  were
much  more  prosperous  than  we  had  ever  supposed  and  a  wide-
spread inclination  not  only  to  extravagance  in  all  classes  but
also  towards  costly  social  experiments,  which,  as  the  country's
financial  and  economic  situation  was  certain  to  show,  were
impracticable.  The  inevitable  development  of  affairs  is  now
enforcing  in  the  only  effective  way — by  the  pressure  of  actual
facts — a  truer  knowledge  of  our  real  situation.

Some  critics  have  complained  that  these  articles  show  an
insufficient  knowledge  of,  and  sympathy  with,  the  aspirations


INTRODUCTION  xi

of  the  Labour  party.  I  do  not  regard  such  criticism  as
justified.  The  articles  were  not  contributions  towards  a
reasoned  discussion  of  the  merits  of  a  Capitalist  as  against  a
Socialist  state  of  society.  They  were  intended  merely  to
help  towards  a  practical  consideration  of  the  actual  problems
which  faced  us  and  required  immediate  treatment,  and  the
future  will,  I  believe,  show  the  views  I  have  expressed  to  be
correct.  Our  great  problem  at  the  moment  is  not  to  re -make
Society  or  to  hand  over  to  the  State  the  "  instruments  of  pro-
duction, distribution  and  exchange,"  but  to  continue  selling
our  products  to  the  world,  so  that  we  shall  have  something  to
produce  and  some  wages  and  profits  to  distribute.  We  are
no  longer  living  in  a  fool's  paradise  of  war  loans,  paper  wealth,
and  inflation ;  we  have  got  to  readjust  ourselves  to  world
conditions.  The  quicker  we  do  so,  and  the  harder  and  more
efficiently  we  work,  the  smaller  will  be  the  readjustment
required  and  the  sooner  will  unemployment  decrease.  We
might  before  long  even  return  to  a  state  of  moderate  prosperity.
But  one  danger  is  that  our  great  Trades  Unions — with  a  sincere
desire  no  doubt  to  protect  their  members — will  make  the
mistake  of  resisting  too  long  that  readjustment,  which  is  abso-
lutely necessary,  and  which  is  being  faced,  willy  nilly,  by  the
unemployed,  by  those  with  fixed  incomes,  by  the  taxpayers,
by  shareholders  in  general  and  by  those  who  depend  on  profits.
The  Labour  leaders  should  remember  the  tale  of  the  courtiers
of  King  Canute.  The  more  prolonged  the  resistance  of  the
Trades  Unions,  and  the  greater  the  disturbance  to  trade  and
industry  caused  thereby,  the  greater  will  become  the  readjust-
ment that  will  ultimately  face  them  as  the  only  alternative
to  unemployment.

These  are  the  problems  before  us.  I  cannot  pretend,  how-
ever, that  I  do  not  thoroughly  disagree  with  the  theory  of  the
collectivist  organization  of  society,  which  is  regarded  officially
by  the  Labour  party,  though  not,  I  believe,  by  its  rank  and
file,  as  the  ideal  towards  which  we  should  press.  Since  leaving
Oxford  I  have  spent  just  half  my  life  in  Government  depart-
ments in  this  country  and  South  Africa,  and  half  in  private
business.  My  experience  convinces  me  that,  so  far  as  the
production  of  material  wealth  is  concerned,  there  can  be  no


xii  INTRODUCTION

comparison  between  a  society  founded  generally  on  private
enterprise,  initiative  and  saving  and  one  founded  generally  on
public  ownership  and  control.

The  Capitalist  system,  i.e.,  the  system  of  private  property,
far  from  being  a  failure,  has  been,  so  far  as  wealth  production
is  concerned,  an  unquestionable  success.  As  developed  in
the  last  century  it  is  very  largely  the  direct  cause  of  the  huge
increase  in  the  world's  population.  Whether  life  becomes
more  tolerable,  the  more  numerous  we  become  and  the  more
crowded  we  are  in  great  cities,  is  quite  another  question.  But
we  have  all  been  born  into  the  world  and  must  now  be  fed,
clothed,  housed  and  amused.  The  bulk  of  us  may  be  so  dis-
satisfied with  the  whole  business,  that  we  may  revolt  and  try
to  overturn  society.  But,  if  we  do,  we  shall  starve,  unless
we  quickly  re -make  it  on  very  much  the  same  lines  as  it  was
before.  I  have  always  been  convinced  that,  left  to  itself,  the
Soviet  experiment  in  Russia  will  result  in  a  form  of  society  in
a  very  short  time  almost  indistinguishable  from  that  which
it  replaced.  We  see  the  process  already  beginning  now.  If
we  are  to  live  with  any  comfort  at  all,  we  must  indeed  choose
that  system  which  is  most  efficient  in  the  production  of  wealth,
and  it  is  for  that  reason  that  I  regard  our  present  system  or
something  very  similar  as  likely  to  last  for  much  longer  than
some  of  its  critics  suppose.  In  time  it  will  no  doubt  be  pro-
foundly modified.  But  radical  indeed  must  be  the  change
in  Western  civilization  before  the  abandonment  occurs  of  that
speculative  area  in  industrial  and  commercial  life,  where
profits  and  losses  are  made,  and  for  which  private  property
and  private  enterprise  are  essential.


WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

I

LOMBARD  STREET  AND  WAR

(March,  1912)

A  British  Government  ought  to  know  what  effect  the
outbreak  of  war  is  likely  to  produce  in  Lombard  and  Throg-
morton  Streets  and  what  measures  it  may  have  to  enforce
to  forestall  a  financial  crisis,  just  as  much  as  it  should  have
plans  for  the  strategic  disposition  of  its  naval  and  military
forces.  In  ordinary  times,  no  doubt,  the  less  a  Government
interferes  with  the  delicate  mechanism  of  finance  the  better.
But  there  may  be  times  when,  owing  to  our  peculiar  banking
laws,  it  must  act,  and  then  it  will  be  of  the  first  importance
that  it  should  act  with  knowledge.  At  present  one  is  almost
entitled  to  suspect  that  just  as  the  War  Office  will  train  the
Territorials,  so  the  Treasury  hopes  to  acquire  a  knowledge  of
its  duties,  after  and  not  before  war  has  broken  out,  instead  of
keeping  in  close  touch  with  the  financial  community  at  all
times,  and  making,  in  consultation  with  it,  preparations  for  all
emergencies.

The  object  of  the  following  pages  is  not,  however,  to  teach
the  Government  its  duties.  It  is  the  more  modest  one  of
attempting  to  sketch,  in  broad  lines,  what  may  be  called
London's  place  in  the  world  of  finance  and  Lombard  Street's
capacity  to  meet  the  shock  of  war.  That  is  a  matter  which
vitally  affects  every  citizen  of  the  British  Empire,  the  South
African  and  Canadian  as  much  as  the  Englishman  and  Scotch-
man. There  is  no  parallel  to  the  position  which  London  holds,
nor  has  the  modern-world  system  of  credit  ever  been  really
subjected  to  the  test  of  war.    While,  therefore,  much  that  is

1  B


2  WAH  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

said  must  be  conjectural,  the  subject  may  perhaps  derive
an  added  interest  from  the  uncertainties  which  surround  it.
There  is  a  further  reason  for  clear  thinking  on  the  subject.
Much  is  said  in  these  days  about  finance  making  war  impossible.
A  clear  perspective  of  the  subject  may  better  enable  us  to  decide
on  the  truth  of  this  dictum  and  on  the  extent  to  which  modern
developments  of  the  credit  machinery  have  eliminated  the
fundamental  causes  of  conflict  between  nations.


At  the  height  of  the  recent  Morocco  crisis  the  world
learnt  that  the  great  German  financiers,  appalled  at  the  chaos
into  which,  as  they  believed,  war  would  plunge  German  trade
and  German  credit,  were  putting  strong  pressure  on  their
Government  in  the  cause  of  peace.  Even  the  apprehension
of  war  had  brought  the  Berlin  bourse  into  a  pitiable  state  of
nerves,  which  the  Government  wereobliged  to  relieve  by  sooth-
ing measures.  It  became  clear  to  the  world  that  credit  had
no  frontiers,  and  that  the  largest  army  in  the  world  and  the
strongest  fortresses  were  powerless  before  the  invisible  forces
of  distrust.  But  Germany  was  not  alone  in  her  discomfort.
She  was  thought,  indeed,  to  be  particularly  vulnerable  owing
to  her  peculiar  dependence  on  foreign  money  and  credit.
Yet  other  nations  were  in  much  the  same  plight.  It  was  clear
that  no  great  war-shock  could  be  given  to  the  nerve  system
of  international  credit  without  bringing  with  it  the  danger
of  general  paralysis.

The  world  had  had  also  a  few  years  before  another  proof
of  the  growing  interdependence  of  modern  nations  in  the
American  monetary  crisis  of  1907.  There  was  hardly  a  civil-
ized country,  hardly  indeed  any  industry  in  any  civilized
country,  which  was  not  affected  in  some  way  or  other  by  the
sudden  collapse  of  American  credit  and  the  consequent  paraly-
sis of  American  trade,  external  and  internal.  Among  its
manifold  consequences,  for  instance,  may  be  placed  the  smooth
passage  of  the  Union  of  South  Africa.  During  some  months
American  women  ceased  almost  entirely  to  buy  diamonds.
Since  they  buy  far  more  diamonds  than  the  women  of  any


LOMBARD  STREET  AND  WAR  8

other  nation,  the  diamond  trade  which  is  centred  almost
wholly  in  South  Africa,  was  completely  disorganized.  The
finances  of  the  Cape  Colony,  being  largely  dependent  on  the
revenue  from  the  diamond  trade,  were  thrown  into  confusion,
and  in  consequence  the  Cape  Colony  was  induced  to  agree  to
unite  with  the  other  South  African  colonies  on  terms  to  which
in  her  days  of  prosperity  she  would  never  have  agreed.  This
perhaps  may  stand  simply  as  a  curious  example  of  the
far-reaching  effects  of  modern  trade.  Yet  it  is  hardly  to  be
wondered  at  that  the  sudden  stagnation  of  the  great  American
market,  coming  as  it  did  on  the  top  of  a  period  of  general  over-
trading, had  serious  consequences  all  over  the  world.  The
shock  to  international  credit,  accompanied  by  a  huge  shrink-
age in  the  value  of  American  securities,  many  millions  of  which
are  held  in  England  and  on  the  Continent,  had  results  equally
far  reaching.

It  is  unnecessary  to  multiply  examples.  The  effects  of  a
financial  crisis  are  indeed  clear  enough.  But  what  are  the
causes  ?  Why  is  it  that  failure  of  credit  has  such  a  paralysing
effect  on  industry  and  trade  ?  In  what  way  are  modern
nations  coupled  together  like  a  train  of  railway  trucks  so  that
a  shock  to  the  credit  of  one  is  inevitably  transmitted  to  all
the  rest  ?  To  outsiders  the  money-market  seems  a  dull  sub-
ject, perhaps  because  it  is  difficult  to  explain  it  in  any  but
a  dull  way.  Like  philosophy  it  has  a  language  of  its  own,
full  of  unintelligible  technicalities,  which  only  become  intelli-
gible if  one  uses  them  in  one's  daily  life.  But  since  ignorance
or  indifference  to  the  subject  may  bring  the  most  unpleasant
consequences  to  the  inhabitants  not  only  of  the  United  King-
dom, but  the  British  Empire  too,  some  attempt  to  throw  a
little  light  upon  it  may  be  excused.

The  system  of  banking  and  credit,  without  which  our  modern
world  would  never  have  come  into  being,  performs  several
indispensable  functions  for  society.  A  bank  concentrates
the  money  of  the  community,  so  that  it  is  accessible  and  avail-
able. A  million  pounds  scattered  through  the  community
in  tens  and  fifties  are  quite  useless  for  the  production  of
wealth.  Concentrated  in  a  bank  they  are  at  the  service  of  the
enterprising  section  of  the  community.     They  can  be  lent  to


4  WAR  AND   NATIONAL  FINANCE

those  who  can  give  the  bank  proper  security,  and  can  be  used
continuously  and  in  endless  ways  to  enrich  mankind.  A  bank
therefore  forms  a  bridge  between  those  who  have  money,  but
no  opportunity  for  its  profitable  use,  and  those  who  could  use  it
profitably  but  have  too  little  of  it.  Just  as  a  huge  wholesale
store  collects  and  distributes  goods  for  its  customers,  so  a
bank  collects  and  distributes  capital.  But  if  banks  had  been
restricted  simply  to  lending  out  the  metal  currency  their  deposi-
tors brought  them  they  would  never  have  gone  far  towards
changing  the  face  of  the  world.  Some  inventive  genius  dis-
covered that  if  a  bank  could  persuade  people  to  use  a  currency
of  its  own  as  a  supplement  to  the  metal  currency,  it  could
lend  more  "  money  "  than  its  depositors  had  brought  it.  It
could  then  enormously  extend  its  operations.  There  was  vastly
more  wealth  in  the  world  in  the  hands  or  at  the  call  of  enter-
prising men  than  the  small  amount  which  banks  could  take  in
pledge  in  return  for  the  loan  of  actual  gold  or  silver.  Would
not  the  public  take  the  bank's  promise  to  pay  gold  instead  of
the  gold  itself  ?  It  was  true  that  gold  must  always  be  paid
when  demanded  and  that  the  more  promises  to  pay  there
were,  the  more  difficult  it  might  be  to  do  so  in  any  time  of  stress.
But  still  depositors  must  be  judged  as  reasonable  men,  and  if
the  bank  were  well  conducted  they  would  probably  make  no
unreasonable  demands  for  cash.  Thus  in  bank  notes  a  new
form  of  currency  was  invented,  which  stiU  does  duty  to  a
greater  or  less  degree  in  every  country.  In  Great  Britain  and
her  Dominions  and  in  the  United  States  the  last  few  decades
have  seen  a  further  refinement  of  banking.  Cheques  have
almost  superseded  bank  notes,  while  in  other  countries,  such
as  Germany,  a  highly  developed  system  of  transfer  to  some
extent  takes  their  place.  Banks  lend  money,  not  in  gold
or  notes,  but  merely  in  the  form  of  a  book  credit,  or  a  right
to  draw  cheques.  These  extraordinarily  simple  forms  of  cur-
rency, unlike  gold,  cost  a  bank  practically  nothing  to  make  and
are  therefore  a  source  of  great  profit.  And  to  the  public
they  are  vastly  more  convenient.

Imagine  the  modern  world  of  trade  if  every  debt  had  to  be
redeemed  in  gold.  It  could  never  have  come  into  being.
There  is  not  a  merchant  or  financier  or  stock-broker  who  has


LOMBARD  STREET  AND  WAR  6

not  every  day  to  be  meeting  large  liabilities.  If  a  merchant
wishes  to-morrow  to  pay  a  debt  of  £10,000,  he  draws  a  cheque
on  his  bank.  If  there  was  no  bank,  or  if  the  bank  had  closed
its  doors,  he  could  not  pay.  He  could  never  find  the  gold.
There  would  be  no  machinery  for  payment.  The  collapse
of  the  banking  system  would  mean  nothing  short  of  the  im-
mediate cessation  of  the  production  and  distribution  of  wealth
as  we  know  it.

What  is  the  significance  of  this  discovery  of  credit  ?  Before
credit  was  invented  the  only  wealth  which  was  "liquid"  or
"  employable "  was  gold  and  silver.  They  were  the  only
currency  in  which  labour  could  be  paid  and  materials  purchased.
They  were  not  only  limited  in  amount,  but  still  more  limited
by  the  difiiculty  of  their  transfer.  To  send  a  million  pounds
from  London  to  New  York  was,  apart  from  its  great  risk,  a
matter  of  months.  The  same  sum  can  now  be  transmitted  in
half  an  hour  by  the  despatch  of  a  cable.  By  the  invention  of
credit,  which  in  its  modern  development  would  not  be  possible
without  the  telegraph,  the  telephone, the  steamship  and  the  rail-
way, a  bank  has  power  to  give  life  to  a  great  mass  of  dead  wealth,
to  *'  mobilize  "  it.  Land,  commodities,  precious  stones,  stocks
and  shares,  bills  of  exchange,  in  short,  all  forms  of  or  rights  to
wealth,  which  have  indeed  value  but  are  not  currency  and  are
useless  for  the  payment  of  labour  or  the  purchase  of  materials,
can  be  taken  to  a  bank,  pledged  to  it,  and  the  owner  receive
in  return  the  bank's  currency  either  in  notes,  or,  as  in  the
British  Empire  and  the  United  States,  in  the  form  of  the  right
to  draw  cheques.  By  this  simple  process  this  dead  wealth  is
turned  into  currency  and  made  available  for  any  use  to  which
the  borrower  desires  to  put  it.

It  is  no  exaggeration  to  say  that  almost  the  whole  of  modern
trade  and  industry  is  based,  in  this  way,  on  borrowed  money —
borrowed  either  from  unsuspecting  depositors,  who  have  no
inkHng  of  the  uses  to  which  their  money  is  put,  or  from  the
banks  themselves  by  means  of  the  currency  they  create.  If
there  were  no  banks  from  which  to  borrow,  trade  and  industry
would  shrivel  up  just  as  a  balloon  shrivels  up  on  an  escape  of
gas.  So  long  as  the  money  is  borrowed  to  finance  safe  under-
takings, and,  in  particular,  the  production  and  distribution  of


6  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

the  great  necessities  of  life,  it  is  wholly  legitimate.  If  traders,
and  merchants,  and  producers  had  to  wait  for  their  money
until  the  actual  buyers  of  their  products  could  pay,  the
wheels  of  commerce  would  never  go  round  at  all.  The  cotton
grower  could  not  get  paid  until  the  cotton  spinner  had  sold  his
yarn  ;  the  wholesale  buyer  of  yarn  could  not  pay  the  cotton
spinner  until  the  retail  merchants  had  paid  him  ;  and  the  latter
could  not  pay  until  they  had  disposed  of  their  purchases  in
detail  to  their  customers.  Thus  the  cotton  grower  would  have
no  money  to  begin  sowing  and  tending  his  crop  ;  the  spinner
no  money  to  pay  his  wages  ;  the  wholesale  merchant  no  money
to  replenish  his  warehouses.  They  must  all  wait  months
till  the  retailer  had  sold  his  stocks.  And  this,  not  because  the
transaction  was  doubtful  or  risky,  but  simply  because  the  wealth
in  the  cotton  at  its  different  stages  was  not  employable.  All
this  is  altered  by  the  loan  of  banking  currency.  The  producer,
the  manufacturer,  and  the  merchant  can  all  turn  their  wealth
into  money  at  once,  simply  by  pledging  with  the  bank  that
wealth  in  its  different  forms  of  raw  cotton  and  finished  yarn.
This  process,  by  which  the  banks  "  carry "  the  immobile
wealth  of  the  world,  is  universal  in  trade  and  industry.  In
those  countries  where  land  and  mortgage  banks  are  developed,
the  same  principle  is  fully  extended  to  agriculture,  to  its  immense
advantage.  Instead  of  being  flush  of  money  when  he  can  sell
his  produce  and  short  at  other  times,  a  farmer  can  raise  what
he  wants  at  such  times  as  suit  him.

There  is,  therefore,  nothing  intangible  in  credit.  It  has
at  its  back  wealth  of  some  kind  or  other  which  the  bank  lending
the  credit  supposes  to  be  of  at  least  equal  value  to  it.  The
borrower  has  pledged  his  wealth  to  the  bank  ;  the  bank  has
lent  its  currency  to  the  borrower.  Even  if  a  borrower  is  given
a  "  blank  credit  "  or  an  "  over-draft,"  the  loan  is  made  against
the  value  of  his  supposed  capital.  Credit  which  is  given  with-
out security  of  some  kind  is  illegitimate.  At  first  sight  there
seems  no  reason  why  this  delightfully  simple  process  of  manu-
facturing money,  which  costs  nothing  to  make,  should  be
limited  by  anything  except  the  amount  of  wealth  there  is  in  the
world  to  pledge.  And  there  would  be  no  reason,  if  the  roseate
schemes  of  borrowers  were  always  fulfilled  ;    if  nature  was


LOMBAKD  STREET  AND  WAR  7

never  capricious,  and  depositors  always  reasonable.  For  then
every  bank  would  always  be  repaid  its  loans  with  interest,  and
depositors'  money  would  never  be  in  danger.  Unfortunately
the  prescience  of  borrowers  and  banks  is  far  from  perfect.

*'  The  best  laid  schemes  of  mice  and  men  gang  aft  agley."

Even  if  human  frailty  became  human  perfection,  nature  would
still  be  fitful.  A  bad  harvest  may  follow  a  good  one  ;  a  pro-
mising mine  "  peter  out."  The  borrower  may  have  successfully
estimated  his  market,  or,  in  other  words,  the  wants  and
fashions  of  men,  and  yet  nature  upset  his  plans.  Take  the
cotton  trade.  The  loans  made  by  the  banks  are  based  on
estimates  of  the  cotton  harvest,  the  market  for  cotton,  the
other  demands  for  credit  which  must  be  satisfied,  the  signs
of  the  political  sky,  and  so  on.  None  of  these  are  under  the
banks'  control.  There  is  not  a  day  in  the  year  on  which
bankers  must  not  take  account  of  the  changes  and  chances  of
this  mortal  life.  In  fact,  as  long  experience  has  taught,  the
limitations  to  credit  are  very  definite,  and  the  path  of  history
is  strewn  with  the  wrecks  of  banks  which  have  ignored  them.
Enterprising  men,  especially  in  optimistic  times,  become  too
enterprising.  Over-production  may  bring  a  crash,  and  over-
production merely  means  that  banks  and  borrowers  in  general
have  taken  too  rosy  a  view  of  the  future.  Depositors  may
take  fright.  Something  unforeseen  may  happen,  and  what  is
unexpected  and  unforeseen  is  bound  to  make  banks  uncomfort-
able.

This  system  of  banking  and  credit,  in  its  origin  peculiarly
British,  has  been  rapidly  extended  in  the  last  fifty  years  over
the  face  of  the  civilized  globe,  and  is  binding  all  nations  together
to  an  extent  hardly  yet  recognized.  The  credits  which  one
bank  gives,  becomes  the  deposits  of  another.  You  may  receive
a  credit  of  £100,000  from  a  London  bank  which  you  may
utilize  to  pay  wages  or  to  buy  materials  in  the  Argentine.
Those  whom  you  pay  or  from  whom  you  buy  repay  the  money
into  their  banks  again  and  it  is  again  available,  but  in  another
country.  You  may  buy  securities  in  America.  Your  money
goes  to  swell  the  American  banking  deposits.  You  may  buy
wheat  from  Russia.    Your  money  is  transferred  to  a  Russian


8  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

bank.  Thus  the  great  mass  of  banking  currency,  representing
the  employable  wealth  of  the  world,  circulates  incessantly  from
bank  to  bank,  from  country  to  country.  The  result  has  deen
vastly  to  increase  the  liquid  wealth  of  the  world  and  to  acceler-
ate its  development.  Great  masses  of  capital  are  heaped  up
in  the  national  banking  centres  in  London,  New  York,  Paris  and
Berlin.  Every  year  its  concentration  becomes  more  pro-
nounced in  those  great  centres  where  the  machinery  for  its
employment  is  most  perfect.  Vast  amounts  of  capital  are
available  in  each  country  for  the  development  of  its  own  wealth.
The  great  creditor  nations,  Great  Britain  and  France,  which
have  more  capital  than  they  can  profitably  consume  in  their
own  countries,  lend  out  yearly  huge  sums  for  permanent  invest-
ment in  any  country  and  for  any  enterprise  which  promises
a  sufficient  reward.  France  has  turned  her  attention,  mainly
to  Europe  and  Latin  America,  England  to  the  whole  world,
but  to  Europe  least  of  all.  On  the  other  hand,  debtor  nations,
like  Canada  and  the  Argentine,  absorb  all  and  more  than  all
their  savings,  and  even  the  United  States  and  Germany  have
comparatively  little  for  investment  in  other  countries.

But  it  is  not  only  by  means  of  permanent  investment  in
one  country  or  another,  through  the  medium  of  a  public  issue
in  the  market,  that  these  great  masses  of  capital  find  employ-
ment. Much  of  it  is  suitable  only  for  temporary  investment
in  the  short  loan  markets  of  the  world,  either  in  the  discount
of  commercial  bills  or  by  means  of  loans  to  the  Stock  Exchange.
Every  bank  must  keep  no  small  proportion  of  its  money  "  on
call,"  and  this  floating  supply  is  invested  for  short  periods  in
that  market  where  rates  are  favourable.  If  money  is  cheap
in  New  York — i.e.,  if  the  banks  have  created  or  borrowed
more  money  than  the  enterprise  of  the  country  can  at  that
moment  utilize — American  money  flows  to  London,  Paris  or
Berlin ;  if  money  is  cheap  in  Paris,  as  it  generally  is,  it  finds
investment  in  England  and  Germany.  Between  aU  these
great  national  reservoirs  of  capital  there  is  thus  constantly
flowing  a  great  stream  of  capital  for  temporary  investment,
regulated  by  the  value  of  money  in  each  of  them.  Moreover,
in  addition  to  the  permanent  investment  of  the  citizens  of  one
country  in  the  undertakings  of  another,  and  the  temporary


LOMBARD  STREET  AND  WAR  9

employment  by  one  banking  centre  of  large  amounts  of  money
in  the  short  loan  market  of  others,  the  great  banks  of  such
centres  as  London,  New  York,  Paris,  and  Berlin  are  constantly
employing  their  funds  and  their  credit  in  financing  foreign
trade  and  in  making  loans  on  the  security  of  wealth  and
property  in  all  parts  of  the  world.  Every  day,  therefore,  the
dependence  of  the  banking  community  in  one  country  on  the
soundness  of  the  banking  community  in  every  other  brings
closer  together  the  economic  interests  of  all  nations.  Both  credi-
tor and  debtor  nations  are  vitally  interested  in  one  another's
welfare.  On  the  one  hand  the  investors  of  a  creditor  nation
can  hardly  help  wishing  for  the  prosperity  of  the  country  in
which  they  have  invested  their  money.  On  the  other,  a  new
country  with  little  capital  of  its  own  depends  on  the  continued
import  of  capital  to  an  extent  which  those  who  live  in  an  old
country  can  hardly  comprehend.

We  see  attempts  being  made  by  Governments  to  determine
the  channels  into  which  the  surplus  capital  of  their  citizens  shall
and  shall  not  flow.  France  refuses  a  loan  to  Austria,  because
Austria  is  a  member  of  the  Triple  Alliance  ;  the  German
Government  tries  to  prohibit  the  investment  of  German  money
in  foreign  undertakings.  Great  as  may  be  the  political  effect
of  such  action,  it  can  never  in  the  long  run  wholly  attain  its
object  economically.  It  is  like  trying  to  dam  a  river  by  erect-
ing a  wall  across  a  part  of  its  stream.  The  water  finds  its
way  round  another  side.  English  papers  have  lately  applauded
the  patriotic  determination  of  Frenchmen  not  to  invest  money
in  loans  which  might,  at  any  rate  indirectly,  be  utilized  for
the  construction  of  German  and  Austrian  Dreadnoughts.
But  what  do  we  do  ?  We  lend  German  trade  and  industry
many  millions  through  our  credit  system  without  any  fuss.
And  if  we  did  not  lend  money  to  Germany,  we  should  lend  it
to  some  other  country,  whose  prosperity  would  be  thereby
improved,  and  whose  trade  with  Germany  would  also,  in  con-
sequence, almost  certainly  be  improved.  France  may  deter-
mine to  lend  to  Russia  and  not  to  Germany.  Germany's  trade
with  Russia  is  thereupon  improved  with  the  improvement  of
Russia's  financial  position.  We  may  lend  money  to  the  Argen-
tine ;  the  Argentine  will  trade  more  with  us,  but  she  will  also


10  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

trade  more  with  Germany.  In  fact,  surplus  capital  is  bound
to  be  employed  somewhere.  Left  to  itself  it  will  seek  the
most  profitable  channels  ;  if  its  movements  are  restricted,  it
wiU  have  to  seek  less  profitable  channels.  But  the  net  result
of  its  employment  will  always  be  an  increase  in  the  world's
wealth,  and  that  will  mean  more  trade  not  only  to  the  country
supplying  the  capital  but  to  every  active  trading  country  as
well.  If  we  want  to  be  prosperous,  we  must  face  the  fact
that  our  prosperity  will  also  mean  our  rivals'  prosperity  too.
In  truth,  an  infinite  number  of  strands  binds  all  the  great
nations  to  one  another,  and,  like  the  nerves  of  the  human  body,
these  strands  radiate  from  the  great  nerve  centres  of  credit.
And  the  more  they  spread  out  through  the  world  the  more
sensitive  become  those  centres  to  the  welfare  or  misfortunes  of
every  part  they  touch.  Credit  depends  on  normal  times.
The  nature  and  extent  of  credit  are  based  on  a  very  great  num-
ber of  estimates  of  profitable  enterprise  in  all  parts  of  the  world
made  jointly  by  a  great  number  of  traders,  manufacturers  and
others,  and  a  great  number  of  bankers  in  the  credit  centres  of  the
world.  If  these  estimates  have  been  incorrectly  gauged,  the
stability  of  the  banks  may  be  endangered.  Their  assets  may
be  locked  up  in  loans,  which  cannot  be  realized,  and  their
depositors  may  be  demanding  gold.  Whatever  in  any  part  of
the  world  affects  those  who  are  employing  the  bank's  money
or  credit  affects  the  banks.  Now  all  the  estimates  made  are
based  on  the  supposition  that  nothing  abnormal  will  occur  to
upset  them.  No  doubt  some  of  the  estimates  will  prove  to
be  wrong,  even  if  nothing  unexpected  occurs.  But  in  normal
times  most  of  them  will  work  out  fairly  correctly.  On  the
other  hand,  anything  abnormal,  a  great  strike,  some  catas-
trophe of  nature,  or  above  all  a  war,  may  upset  all  estimates
alike.  Take  as  an  instance  of  something  abnormal  the  pay-
ment of  the  French  indemnity  to  Germany  in  1873.  In  two
years  Germany  received  the  huge  sum  of  £200,000,000.  And
yet  this  increase  of  wealth  was  followed  by  deep  depression.  It
was  the  sudden  and  unexpected  supply  of  capital  which  upset
all  calculations  in  Germany.  Money  became  exceedingly
cheap  ;  speculation  was  fostered,  and  all  sorts  of  enterprises
were  undertaken  for  which  there  was  no  real  demand,  with


LOMBARD  STREET  AND  WAR  11

the  inevitable  consequence  of  subsequent  depression.  It  is  in
these  abnormal  times,  as  in  New  York  in  1907,  that  the  founda-
tion on  which  credit  rests  suddenly  reveals  itself.  Credit
depends  on  confidence  and  confidence  depends  first  on  the
belief  in  the  soundness  of  the  banking  world,  and  secondly
on  the  belief  that  every  creditor  of  a  bank  can  get  gold  if  he  is
entitled  to  it.  If  estimates  were  never  wrong  and  nature  never
capricious,  there  would  be  no  need  for  gold.  But  as  it  is,  gold
is  required  because  gold  in  addition  to  being  currency  is  also
a  form  of  wealth  itself.  While  a  bank  note  and  a  cheque  are
worth  nothing  by  themselves  and  lose  in  a  crisis  the  extrinsic
value  which  confidence  gives  them,  gold  has  an  intrinsic
value  of  its  own.  If  a  depositor  has  his  money  in  gold,  he  may
be  indifferent  to  the  fate  of  his  bank,  because  the  value  of  the
gold  is  wholly  independent  of  credit.  Of  course,  no  one  sup-
poses that  a  bank  is  ever,  or  should  be  ever,  in  a  position  to
pay  all  its  liabilities  in  gold  at  any  one  time.  If  it  were  so,
there  would  be  no  such  thing  as  credit.  The  art  of  banking
is  to  speculate  with  success  on  the  chance  that  only  a  small
proportion  of  creditors  will  ask  for  their  money  in  gold  at  the
same  moment.  But  they  may  all  demand  it.  And  that  will
be  in  a  time  when  any  bank,  however  strong,  will  probably
find  it  very  difficult  to  realize  its  assets  or  obtain  gold  either
from  within  or  without  the  national  borders.

Gold  is  the  only  universally  acceptable  form  of  currency.
Not  only  is  it  the  indispensable  foundation  on  which  to  build
a  stable  banking  system,  but  it  is  the  sole  means  for  settling
the  balance  of  indebtedness  between  one  nation  and  another.
When  their  respective  debts  have  been  set  off  against  one
another  the  balance  must  be  settled  in  gold.  Every  civilized
country,  therefore,  with  a  developed  banking  system  must
have  a  big  reserve  of  gold.

And  since  it  is  the  foundation  of  their  credit,  they  must  not
only  have  it  but  hold  it.  If  one  nation  is  passing  through
a  crisis,  and  in  its  thirst  for  gold  hastens  to  liquidate  all  its
assets  abroad — like  the  United  States  in  1907 — and  to  demand
payment  in  gold,  are  these  great  banks  to  hand  out  their  precious
gold  to  any  one  who  asks  for  it,  so  that  it  may  be  sent  away
just  when  a  nervous  tremor  may  be  beginning  to  pass  through


12  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

their  own  community  ?  And  yet,  somehow  or  other,  the  gold
must  be  had.  If  Europe  owes  America  money  she  must  pay  it,
and  pay  it  in  an  acceptable  currency.  If  gold  is  the  only  cur-
rency left,  gold  must  be  sent.  Gold  must  be  always  available
somewhere.  And  it  is  always  available,  but  only  from  one
place  in  the  world.  London,  alone  among  the  great  financial
centres,  has  undertaken  the  task  of  meeting  every  legitimate
demand  in  gold  at  all  times  and  to  any  amount.  No  other
banking  nation  has  ventured  to  face  the  risk  of  meeting  not  only
the  demands  of  its  own  depositors  but  of  the  world  itself.  If
Germany  has  to  pay  gold  to  Turkey  for  a  loan  newly  granted,
she  gets  it  from  London  ;  if  New  York  wants  gold,  she  gets  it
from  London ;  if  the  Argentine  or  Egypt  or  India  have  had
good  harvests  and  want  gold,  they  get  it  from  London.  You
may  study  any  day  in  The  Times  the  gold  movements  of  the
world.    The  following  is  an  extract  taken  at  random  :

"When  it  became  known  fairly  early  that  a  considerable  amount
of  gold  was  being  withdrawn  from  the  Bank  on  German  account,  and
that  an  equal  sum  was  almost  certain  to  be  taken  to-day  for  the  same
quarter,  the  market  stiffened  up  again  and  the  bills  ceased  to  be  offered
freely.  The  prospect  of  great  pressure  at  the  end  of  the  month  makes
the  market  very  sensitive  to  all  influences  which  are  likely  to  reduce
the  available  supply  of  cash  during  the  next  few  days.  Much  interest
was  shown  in  the  wanderings  of  the  £400,000  in  sovereigns  which  were
sent  a  short  while  ago  to  Constantinople  and  have  now  left  that  city.
We  believe  that  about  three-quarters  of  the  total  will  reach  London,
and  probably  be  sent  to  the  Bank  before  the  end  of  the  year,  of  which
two  parcels  of  £100,000  each  are  likely  to  arrive  on  Thursday  and
Friday  next.  We  also  hear  that  Switzerland's  gold  requirements  are
not  yet  satisfied,  and  that  another  £100,000  of  the  South  African  bars
may  be  taken  for  that  quarter.  It  is  still  uncertain  whether  the
Bank  will  secure  any  of  the  South  African  parcel ;  it  has  received  none
as  yet."

Since  1895  the  world's  gold  has  increased  by  £1,000,000,000.
A  great  portion  of  this  huge  sum  has  passed  through  Lon-
don, because  London  is  a  free  market.  Gold  comes  there
freely,  because  it  can  be  freely  taken  away  again,  a  matter,
as  we  shall  see,  of  immense  importance  to  our  credit.  But
we  have  retained  little.  Since  1895,  while  the  United  States
have   absorbed   about   £200,000,000   and   Russia   and   other


LOMBARD  STREET  AND  WAR  18

countries  very  large  amounts,  London,  the  great  gold  mart
of  the  world,  has  retained  only  about  £20,000,000  or
£30,000,000.

This  long  and  somewhat  academic  discussion  may  perhaps
make  clearer  some  of  the  causes  why  a  financial  crisis  in  one
country  at  once  affects  all  other  banking  countries.  There
are  less  immediate  causes  in  the  consequent  stagnation  and
dislocation  of  trade,  and  the  fall  in  the  value  of  securities,
and  these,  if  important,  may  themselves  endanger  credit  as  a
whole.  But  the  immediate  cause  is  that  a  banking  country
in  trouble  at  once  develops  a  thirst  for  gold,  which  can  only  be
satisfied  by  the  attraction  of  gold  from  other  centres.  And
since  gold  is  the  foundation  of  every  credit  system,  every  money
market  immediately  becomes  frightened.  A  crisis  is,  there-
fore, infectious,  and  on  an  outbreak  every  country  becomes
apprehensive,  restricts  its- supply  of  credit  and  makes  pre-
paration for  the  possible  extension  of  the  disease  to  itself.'  "

II

The  London  banker  or  bill-broker,  whose  business  lies  in
the  money  market,  must,  as  he  goes  down  to  the  City  in  the
morning,  scan  the  world  horizon  from  China  to  Peru.  He
must  look  what  gold  shipments  are  reported  into  and  out  of  the
Bank,  what  is  the  rate  for  money  and  bills  in  Paris  and  Berlin,
whether  money  is  cheap  or  dear  in  New  York.  He  must
examine  the  foreign  exchanges  to  note  whether  they  indicate
probable  movements  of  gold  to  or  from  London.  He  will  scan
anxiously  the  political  news  in  every  part  of  the  world.  Any-
thing which  disturbs  the  normal  course  of  affairs,  whether
it  is  political  trouble  in  Europe,  the  failure  of  a  harvest  in  the
Argentine,  financial  trouble  in  New  York,  over -speculation
in  Berlin — anything  that  is  which  may  possibly  affect  the
reserve  of  gold  in  London,  and  through  it  the  rate  for  money,
directly  affects  his  pocket.

For  London  undertakes  to  supply  at  any  time  and  to  any
amount  gold — that  metal  which  is  the  basis  of  every  great
system  of  credit  and  which  may  at  any  moment  be  wanted
to  the  extent  of  millions  of  pounds  to  support  them.  She
undertakes  to  supply  on  demand  not  only  the  countless  de-


14  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

positors  in  her  own  banks,  but  the  world  at  large.  Anybody
in  the  world  who  keeps  money  in  London  or  can  raise  a  credit
or  get  an  advance  in  London  can  get  gold  from  the  Bank  of
England.  Any  nation  in  a  bad  way  and  wanting  gold  can
draw  it  from  London  if  it  has  debts  abroad  which  it  can  liquid-
ate. In  1907  America  drew  nearly  £15,000,000  in  two  months
from  London.  The  Bank  of  England's  reserve  fell  over
£6,000,000  in  two  weeks.  There  is  no  other  nation  which  has
been  able  to  undertake  these  tremendous  responsibilities.
America  is  determined  to  wrest  London's  supremacy  from
her  some  day,  and  if  London  were  ever  in  difficulties  New
York  would  make  a  great  bid  for  her  place.  She  will  soon
have  the  surplus  wealth  and  foreign  trade  needed  ;  all  she
requires  is  a  good  currency  and  banking  system  and  the
reputation  for  prudence  and  soundness  instead  of  for  magnifi-
cent speculation.  Hitherto,  however,  while  Americans  boast
that  New  York  too  is  a  free  market  for  gold,  London  has  not
been  seriously  challenged.  In  good  times  New  York  is  a  free
market.  But  it  is  only  four  years  since  every  bank  in  the
States  suspended  specie  payments.  No  market  can  rival
London  until  it  is  ready  to  pay  in  gold  in  foul  weather  as  well
as  fair.  France  has  never  attempted  to  face  the  responsibility
since  1870,  nor  will  Paris  ever  be  a  serious  competitor  so  long
as  the  Bank  of  France  is  legally  entitled  to  redeem  its  debts
in  silver  as  well  as  gold  at  its  option.  Berlin  aspires  to  be  an
international  market.  But  as  yet  she  has  put  forward  no
serious  claim.  The  Imperial  Bank  of  Germany  asserts  that
gold  can  be  had  from  it  as  easily  as  from  the  Bank  of  England.
But  nobody  believes  it.  There  is  a  universal  opinion,  sur-
prisingly persistent,  if  it  be  ill-founded,  that  a  black  mark  is
entered  by  the  Imperial  Bank  against  the  name  of  the  unhappy
bank  which  dares  to  ask  for  gold  at  an  inconvenient  season.
In  short,  no  other  financial  centre  has  shown  strength  to  under-
take those  responsibiliites  which  London  shoulders  without  a
thought.

London  is  the  bank  of  the  world  and  the  world's  clearing
house.  Civilized  nations  bank  with  London  for  the  same
reasons  that  lead  most  Englishmen  to  bank  with  a  big  clearing
bank.    An  Englishman  chooses  a  bank  because  he  feels  sure


LOMBARD  STREET  AND  WAR  .  16

his  money  is  safe,  and  because  he  knows  he  can  always  get  it
when  he  wants  it.  As  a  rule,  he  chooses  a  big  bank,  because
its  name  is  known  everywhere,  and  a  cheque  drawn  on  it  is
accepted  readily.  This  greatly  simplifies  his  money  trans-
actions. Finally,  he  prefers  that  bank  which  is  likely  to
accommodate  him  with  a  loan  when  he  needs  one.  The  very
same  reasons  have  made  London  the  world's  financial  centre.
London  has  always  been  thought  the  safest  place  in  the  world.
You  have  only  to  read  Bagehot  to  see  how  modern  is  the  idea
that  defeat  or  invasion,  or  even  war  itself,  need  be  considered
as  the  possible  cause  of  a  financial  crisis  in  London.  It  seemed
impossible  only  a  few  years  ago  that  the  British  fleet  should
be  seriously  challenged.  More  important  still,  foreign  coun-
tries were  satisfied  that  they  could  always  get  their  money
back  when  they  wanted  it  and  get  it  in  gold.

But  these  advantages,  important  as  they  are,  would  never
have  created  Lombard  Street  without  Great  Britain's  gigantic
and  world-wide  trade.  Almost  before  any  other  nation  had
started  on  the  road  English  trade  had  penetrated  into  every
corner  of  the  known  world,  and  with  it  the  names  of  the  great
merchant  bankers  of  London.  For  the  exports  from  England
had  to  be  paid  for,  and  they  could  be  paid  for  most  easily  by
buying  bills  which  had  been  drawn  on  London  by  merchants
as  a  means  of  obtaining  payment  for  the  goods  they  were  im-
porting to  England.  In  this  convenient  way  the  one  trans-
action was  set  off  against  the  other.  The  sender  of  goods  to
England  drew  a  bill  on  some  well-known  London  house  for  the
amount  owing  to  him,  and  sold  it  to  the  man  who  had  exported
goods  from  England.  The  latter  sent  it  in  payment  to  the
merchant  in  England  from  whom  he  had  his  goods.  Thus  both
transactions  were  completed,  and  thus  bills  on  London  came
to  be  more  sought  after  than  any  other.  They  were  known
everywhere  to  be  as  good  as  gold.  So  great  indeed  is  the
prestige  and  worth  of  a  London  bill  that  it  is  used  to  finance
not  only  English  trade  but  a  large  portion  of  the  trade  of  the
world  itself.  It  has  become  the  chief  form  of  international
currency.  The  United  States  might  be  thought  wealthy
enough  to  finance  their  own  trade.  But  New  York  possesses
no  discount  market,  and  in  any  case  the  history  of  their  banking


16


WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE


system  is  too  chequered  for  bills  on  New  York  to  be  an  accept-
able form  of  currency.  The  bulk  of  American  trade  with
foreign  countries  is  therefore  financed  by  bills  on  London.
If  a  rubber  merchant  in  Brazil  sends  rubber  to  New  York,  he
repays  himself  by  drawing  a  bill  on  a  London  house.  If  a
Japanese  trader  sends  jute  from  Calcutta  to  Tokyo,  he  finances
it  through  London ;  if  a  German  firm  in  Hamburg  imports
coffee  from  Santos,  the  trade  is  generally  financed  in  London.
Thus,  just  as  we  saw  that  a  bank's  chief  function  was  to  supply
currency  to  its  customers,  so  London  supplies  the  world  with
currency,  without  which  the  world's  trade  could  not  be  carried
on  as  it  now  is,  and  unlocks  and  makes  available  the  wealth
stored  up  in  the  goods  in  transit  throughout  the  world.

Finally,  just  as  an  Englishman  prefers  an  accommodating
banker,  so  the  world  has  favoured  London,  because  London
has  always  had  money  to  lend.  Every  one  likes  a  bank  where  he
can  raise  money  easily  on  good  security.  London  has  been  such
a  bank  to  the  whole  world.  London  has  financed  the  world.
She  has  supplied  unstintingly  all  nations,  both  with  her  credit
to  finance  their  trade  and  her  surplus  wealth  to  develop  their
countries.  A  competent  observer  *  estimates  that  to-day  the
investments  of  Great  Britain  in  other  countries  reach  the
huge  total  of  about  £3,300,000,000.

His  estimate  in  millions  of  pounds  is  as  follows  :

British  Dominions  Beyond  Seas.


189G.

1910.

Increase.

Decrease.

India  and  Ceylon

294

430

136

_

Australasia

323

395

72

—

Africa

333

391

58

—

Canada

140

365

225

—

Other  British  Dominions  .

33

71

38

—

Total      .      .      .

1,123

1,652

529

—

*  "  British  Investments  Abroad."    By  Edgar  Crammond.    Quarterly
Review,  1911.


LOMBARD  STREET  AND  WAR
Foreign  Countries.


17


United  States  ....

Argentine

Brazil

Mexico

Japan

Chile

Egypt

Uruguay

China

Peru

Cuba

Europe

Other  Foreign  Countries  .


Total


Grand  Total,  British  Domin-
ions and  Foreign  Countries.


1896.

1010.

Increase.

315

610

295

117

292

175

45

105

60

27

73

46

13

69

56

29

44

15

51

72

21

23

36

13

26

31

5

21

29

8

5

23

18

254

151

—

43

85

42

969

1,620

651

2,092

3,272

1,180

Decrease.


103


103


The  catalogue  of  foreign  securities  quoted  in  the  London
Stock  Exchange  Daily  List  is  indeed  unapproached  in  any
other  financial  centre.  In  comparison  the  Stock  Exchanges
of  New  York  and  Berlin  are  local  affairs,  and  confine  them-
selves almost  entirely  to  the  securities  of  their  respective
countries.  France,  it  is  true,  invests  largely  abroad,  but  she
is  a  bad  second  to  London.  Great  Britain's  annual  foreign
investments  amount  to  about  £200,000,000.  France's  probably
to  not  half  that  amount.  If  it  is  our  immense  trade  to  which
we  owe  our  position  as  the  world's  bankers,  that  trade  rests
largely  on  our  foreign  investments.  It  increases  and  decreases
regularly,  as  they  increase  or  decrease.  In  a  time  of  peril,
they  may  prove  the  mainstay  of  our  financial  fabric.

In  short,  London  has  become  the  banker  of  the  world,  be-
cause she  has  the  largest  trade,  the  greatest  supply  of  capital
and  credit,  the  longest  traditions  of  commercial  fair  dealing,  a
system  of  banking  unrivalled  for  its  elasticity,  the  freest  market,

c


18  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

and  hitherto  the  completest  immunity  from  attack.  Naturally
London  does  not  act  as  universal  banker  and  general  middleman
for  nothing.  It  has  been  estimated  *  that  our  services  in  the
domain  of  international  trade  and  finance  are  rewarded  by  an
annual  gross  income  of  not  less  than  £50,000,000.

But  while  the  profits  are  large  the  responsibilities  and  risks
may  be  larger  still.  Is  our  supply  of  gold  sufficient  to  carry
them  in  a  crisis  of  magnitude  such  as  a  war  with  Germany,  for
instance,  would  provoke  ?  At  such  a  moment  it  is  only  to  be
expected  that  our  gold  reserve  will  have  to  meet  both  an
external  and  an  internal  drain.  If  it  is  clear  that  Great
Britain's  command  of  the  sea  is  undisputed,  the  acuteness  of
the  crisis  will  probably  rapidly  diminish,  though,  as  we  shall
show,  London  would  have  still  to  deal  with  some  serious
problems.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  we  were  either  defeated
or  in  serious  danger  of  defeat,  it  is  more  probable  than  not  that
our  credit  system  might  not  be  able  to  meet  successfully  the
demands  upon  it.  The  Bank  of  England  would  have  to  suspend
specie  payments  ;  London's  reputation  would  be  very  seriously
damaged,  and  with  her  fall,  international  credit  would  enter
on  a  period  of  chaos  and  confusion  from  which  no  country  in
the  sphere  of  her  influence  would  escape  without  heavy  loss.

The  only  gold  reserve  in  Great  Britain  is  the  sum  of
£35,000,000  or  so  lying  in  bullion  or  coin  in  the  vaults  of  the
Bank  of  England,  together  with  the  stock  of  metal  held  by
other  banks,  in  all,  perhaps,  £70,000,000.  It  is  estimated  that
this  sum  is  equal  to  not  much  more  than  6  per  cent  of  the
total  deposits  of  the  banks  of  the  United  Kingdom.  While
the  stock  scattered  about  among  the  different  banks  is  a
valuable  standby,  the  final  reserve  is  the  reserve  of  the  Bank
of  England.  That  is  the  reserve  to  which  all  the  banks  in  the
United  Kingdom  look.  The  liabilities  it  carries  mount  up
to  many  hundreds  of  millions,  to  so  great  a  sum,  indeed,  that
if  depositors  ever  really  lost  their  heads  the  reserve  would
vanish  in  a  few  hours,  and  the  Bank  Act  would  have  to  be
suspended  to  allow  a  freer  creation  of  bank-notes,  if,  indeed,

*  "  British  Investments  Abroad."  By  Edgar  Crammond.  Quarterly
Review  f  1911.


LOMBABD  STREET  AND  WAR  19

depositors  at  such  a  moment  remained  long  satisfied  with  bank-
notes. All  the  smaller  banks,  and  all  the  provincial  and  Scotch
and  Irish  banks  look  to  the  great  clearing  banks  for  supplying
them  with  gold  in  time  of  need,  and  the  clearing  banks  look
to  the  Bank  of  England.  In  the  balance  sheet  of  every
clearing  bank  appears,  among  the  assets,  an  item  "  Cash  in
hand  and  at  Bank  of  England,"  the  amount  bearing,  as  a  rule,
a  proportion  of  about  8  per  cent  to  10  per  cent  of  the  bank's
liabilities.  What  proportion  is  actual  cash  in  hand  and  what
proportion  "  cash  "  at  the  Bank  of  England  it  is  impossible
to  say,  since  the  figures  are  not  published  separately.  But  it
is  tolerably  certain  that  the  "  cash  "  at  the  Bank  of  England
is  more  than  50  per  cent,  of  the  whole.  As  a  matter  of  fact  this
item  is  not  really  cash.  It  is  not  represented  in  actual  fact
by  cash  to  the  extent  of  more  than  one -third.  And,  moreover,
not  even  the  clearing  banks'  "  cash  in  hand  "  is  really  all  cash.
It  is  always,  to  some  extent,  composed  of  bank-notes,  which
themselves  are  only  partially  backed  by  cash.  "  Cash  in  hand
and  at  the  Bank  of  England  "  consists  itself,  therefore,  largely
of  credit,  and  on  this  basis  the  clearing  banks  build  a  further
towering  edifice.  Moreover,  the  Government  itself  has  very
large  liabilities  to  the  public.  The  deposits  in  the  Post  Office
Savings  Bank  amount  to  about  £160,000,000.  It  is  true  that
the  Savings  Bank  is  more  of  a  Trust  Company  for  investment
than  a  Bank.  But  it  is  different  from  other  Trust  or  Invest-
ment Companies,  in  that  its  depositors  may  demand  their
money  back  on  three  days'  notice.  In  a  crisis  many  of  them
would  probably  withdraw  their  money,  and  if  they  demanded
cash,  cash  could  only  be  got  from  the  Bank  of  England.

Notwithstanding  these  large  domestic  liabilities,  a  purely
internal  crisis  without  some  external  disturbing  cause  is  un-
likely. The  art  of  banking  is  now  too  well  understood  in  this
country,  and  bankers  enjoy  unreservedly,  and  justly  enjoy,
the  confidence  of  the  public.  In  the  past,  internal  crises  were
common.  From  time  to  time  trouble  of  one  kind  or  another
may  occur  again,  but  the  methods  of  dealing  with  it  and  of
preventing  any  spread  of  the  infection  are  now  well  understood.
The  banking  system  is  too  strongly  established  for  any  such
crisis  to  bring  about  a  complete  collapse  of  credit.    A  storm,


20  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

if  it  comes,  will  come  from  another  quarter.     It  is  our  foreign
creditors  who  will  constitute  the  danger.

There  is  usually  a  vast  deal  of  foreign  money  in  London.
It  was  shown  earlier  that  the  result  of  the  modern  credit
system  was  to  heap  up  masses  of  liquid  capital  in  the  great
financial  centres,  a  good  part  of  which  must  be  immediately
available  to  meet  any  sudden  liabilities,  and  that  there  is  in
consequence  always  a  great  mass  of  capital  looking  for  invest-
ment in  the  world's  short  loan  market.  London  has  the
largest  short  loan  market  because  she  has  incomparably  the
most  important  discount  market,  due  to  her  position  as  the
world's  clearing  house,  and,  outside  New  York,  the  greatest
market  for  the  employment  of  money  on  the  Stock  Exchange.
There  is  always,  therefore,  a  large  amount  of  foreign  money
temporarily  vested  in  Lombard  and  Throgmorton  Streets,  and
if  the  rates  of  interest  and  discount  are  more  favourable
there  than  they  are  in  New  York,  Paris,  or  elsewhere,  as  is
often  the  case,  the  sum  runs  into  very  large  figures.  Then,
again,  there  is  hardly  a  financial  institution  of  importance  in
the  world  which  is  not  either  directly  or  indirectly  represented
in  London.  An  increasing  number  of  foreign  and  colonial
banks  have  opened  their  own  branches  there.  There  are  now
branches  of  twenty-eight  foreign  banks  in  London,  representing
a  capital  of  about  £100,000,000,  and  total  assets  of  £716,000,000,
while  the  assets  of  the  Colonial  banks  with  branches  in  London,
now  stand  at  about  £400,000,000.  By  their  use  of  our  credit
system  in  the  manner  referred  to  below,  these  banks — and
particularly  the  agencies  of  foreign  banks — reduce  the  amount
of  their  own  money  employed  to  a  minimum.  Nevertheless,
in  total  that  amount  must  be  large.

But,  apart  from  this,  London  has  large  liabilities  to  foreign
countries  of  a  more  peculiar  and  perhaps  more  dangerous
nature.  London  lends  her  credit  to  the  world.  She  lends  it
indifferently  to  any  nation,  so  long  as  the  security  seems  good
enough,  and  the  method  the  borrowers  employ  is  to  draw  bills
of  exchange  on  London.  It  has  been  already  stated  that  bills
on  London  are  the  chief  international  currency  and  an  inter-
national means  for  balancing  accounts.  They  are  therefore
employed  for  all  transactions  in  which  international  currency


LOMBARD  STREET  AND  WAR  21

is  required.  They  are  used  for  as  many  different  purposes  as
there  are  kinds  of  financial  and  commercial  transactions.  They
originated  as  a  means  of  financing  international  trade,  and  that
is  still  their  most  important  function.  The  best  bill  of  all  is
still  the  true  commercial  bill,  because  it  is  generally  drawn  to
finance  some  article  of  universal  consumption,  for  which  there
is  always  a  market.

To  explain  more  clearly  the  working  of  such  a  bill  it  may
be  worth  while  to  take  the  case  of  an  ordinary  commercial
transaction.

Suppose  the  agents  in  Brazil  of  a  German  merchant  hi
Hamburg  are  shipping  coffee  to  that  port.  The  German  mer-
chant will  have  arranged  with  a  London  accepting  house  or
bank  that  he  shall  be  given  a  credit.  When  the  coffee  is
shipped,  his  agents  draw  a  bill  for  the  amount  of  its  value  on
the  London  house  with  whom  the  credit  is  opened.  Since  it
is  a  first-class  London  bill,  any  bank  in  Brazil  will  discount
it,  i.e.,  buy  it.  So  the  agents  of  the  German  merchant  take  it
and  the  relative  bill  of  lading  to  a  Brazilian  bank  and  receive
from  them  the  price  of  the  coffee.  Their  part  of  the  trans-
action is  thus  closed.  They  have  shipped  the  goods  and  got
their  money.  The  Brazilian  bank  sends  the  bill  of  exchange
and  the  bill  of  lading  to  its  branch  or  agent  in  London,  which
takes  them  to  the  London  house  on  which  the  bill  is  drawn.
The  bill  instructs  the  London  house  to  pay  to  the  Brazilian
bank  or  its  London  branch  three  months  after  it  receives  the
bill,  the  sum  thereon  stated,  i.e.,  the  value  of  the  coffee.  The
London  house  undertakes  to  do  so,  by  "  accepting  "  the  bill,
by  signing  its  name  across  the  face,  in  return  for  the  bill  of
lading,  i.e.,  the  legal  title  to  the  coffee.  Thereupon  the
Brazilian  bank  sells  the  bill  to  a  bill-broker  in  the  discount
market  and  it  also  is  now  out  of  the  matter,  as  it  has  received
its  money  from  the  bill-broker.  The  bill-broker  probably  sells
the  bill  to  a  Joint  Stock  Bank,  or  deposits  it  as  security  for  a
call  loan  made  to  him  by  a  bank,  and  in  three  months'  time  the
Joint  Stock  Bank  or  the  bill-broker  demands  payment  from
the  accepting  house.  Meanwhile  the  coffee  has  gone  to  Ham-
burg and  has  been  sold,  and  out  of  the  proceeds  the  seller  is
under  obligation  to  remit  to  London  the  amount  of  the  bill  a


22  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

day  or  two  before  the  accepting  house  has  to  pay  the  Joint
Stock  Bank  or  bill-broker.  This  is  a  typical  instance  of
hundreds  of  transactions  which  place  take  daily.

But  commercial  bills,  while,  perhaps,  the  most  legitimate
form  of  bill,  are  only  one  out  of  many  forms.  Very  large
credits  are  given  by  London  for  all  sorts  of  purposes,  other  than
commercial  purposes,  to  all  countries  in  the  world,  especially,
perhaps,  Germany  and  North  and  South  America,  and  these
credits  are  utilized  by  drawing  bills.  If  a  loan  is  made  to  a
foreign  country,  such  money  as  is  wanted  there  is  obtained
by  drawing  and  discounting  bills  on  London,  whether  the  loan
is  to  a  Government,  a  corporation  or  an  individual.  Bills  are
used,  perhaps,  most  extensively  of  all  simply  as  a  means  of
borrowing  money.  The  banks  and  accepting  houses  in  London
will  grant  credit,  for  instance,  to  German  or  American  clients.
These  latter  will  raise  their  money  by  drawing  bills  on  London
for  the  amount  they  require.  If  they  want  the  money  in
their  own  country,  they  will  discount  the  bills  there  among
their  own  moneyed  men,  who  will  in  turn  remit  them  for  dis-
count to  London  as  and  when  they  wish  to  replenish  their
coffers.  If  they  want  the  money  in  London  they  will  send
the  bills  direct  there  and  get  them  discounted  in  Lombard
Street,  and  the  proceeds  credited  to  them.

Now  bills  on  London  are  drawn  not  only  on  English  and
Colonial  banks  and  institutions  but  also  on  the  London  branches
of  foreign  banks.  They  are  utilized,  indeed,  by  the  latter  for
raising  much  of  the  money  they  need  for  carrying  on  their
London  business,  and  for  maintaining  a  balance  there.  From
the  point  of  view  of  the  London  money  market  there  is,
however,  an  important  distinction  between  the  two  classes  of
bills.  Those  drawn  on  English  banks  and  houses  have  behind
them  all  the  resources  of  those  banks  and  houses  ;  bills  drawn
on  a  foreign  agency,  e.g.,  by  the  Deutsche  Bank  in  Berlin  on
the  Deutsche  Bank  agency  in  London,  have  behind  them,  so
far  as  this  country  is  concerned,  only  the  resources  which  an
English  creditor,  i.e.,  the  holder  of  the  bill,  when  it  becomes
due,  can  get  at.  He  cannot  get  at  the  Deutsche  Bank  in
Berlin  ;  he  does  not  know  what  resources  of  its  own  its  agency
in  London  keeps,  nor  does  he  know  whether  they  may  not  be


LOMBARD  STREET  AND  WAR  28

removed  to  Berlin  and  the  London  agency  simply  closed  on
the  outbreak  of  trouble.  This  is  perhaps  too  extreme  a  sup-
position to  be  taken  seriously.  Yet  no  one  can  be  certain
what  a  war  might  bring  forth.  And  it  is  for  such  reasons  that
what  are  known  as  "  foreign  agency  bills  "  are  not  taken  as
security  by  the  Bank  of  England.

Thus  much  has  been  said  about  bills  because  it  is  important
to  recognize  the  nature  of  Lombard  Street's  liabilities  in  respect
of  them.  Bills  on  London  are  the  usual  means  of  settling  all
forms  of  indebtedness  between  this  country  and  the  outside
world,  and  are  largely  used  by  other  countries  also  to  settle
debts  as  between  one  another.  The  Clearing  House  Authori-
ties have  estimated  roughly  that  the  amount  of  foreign  and
colonial  bills  paid  in  London  in  1910  was  £1,200,000,000.  A
great  part  of  this  sum  was  on  British  account,  e.g.,  to  finance
British  trade  and  undertakings,  but  probably  more  still  was
on  foreign  account,  to  finance  foreign  trade  and  undertakings.
In  return  for  commissions  and  other  perquisites  London,
therefore,  lends  her  credit  to  foreigners  to  the  tune  of  hundreds
of  millions  at  a  time.  It  is  a  profitable  trade  to  make  people
pay  for  the  use  of  one's  name.  But  what  does  it  mean  ?  Let
us  examine  the  example  given  above.  It  was  the  Brazilian
bank  which  was  out  of  money  at  first  until  its  branch  had  sold
the  bill  in  London.  But  it  was  the  Joint  Stock  Bank  or  the
bill-broker  who  were  out  of  their  money  for  the  remainder  of
the  bill's  currency.  They  had  in  reality  paid  the  Brazilian
bank.  The  latter  could  withdraw  its  money  from  London  on
demand.  The  former  would  not  receive  their  money  through
the  accepting  house  from  Germany  for  three  months.  And
this  is  happening  on  an  enormous  scale  daily  with  every  country
in  the  world.  In  the  balance  sheet  of  any  Joint  Stock  Bank
or  discount  house  you  will  find  an  item  "  Bills  discounted,"
running  sometimes  into  many  millions.  These  represent  for
the  most  part  bills  drawn  abroad,  whether  on  English  or  foreign
institutions,  which  have  been  bought  from  all  those  institu-
tions in  London  which  deal  with  the  outside  world,  whether
they  are  the  big  private  banking  and  accepting  houses,  mer-
chants, foreign  and  colonial  banks,  or  other  Joint  Stock  Banks
themselves.    It  is  these  resources  of  the  Joint  Stock  Banks,


24  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

always  available  for  investment  in  bills,  or  for  loans  on  the
security  of  bills,  which  makes  the  great  discount  market  of
London  possible,  and  all  those  who  draw  and  discount  bills  on
London  have  in  reality  borrowed  their  money  for  the  term
of  the  bills  from  those  banks.  The  Joint  Stock  Banks  are  out
of  these  millions  of  money  until  the  bills  which  they  hold
mature  in  two,  three,  four  or  six  months.  Meanwhile  the
money  so  raised  may  be  called  from  London  without  notice.
London  advances  its  credit  in  such  a  way  that  vast  sums  may
be  called  from  it  without  notice,  whereas  it  will  not  receive
the  *'  cover  "  due  for  these  sums  until  two  or  three  months
later.

The  danger,  therefore,  of  London's  position  is  that  foreign
countries  are  always  in  a  position  to  withdraw  large  sums  from
the  London  market,  and  to  withdraw  them  in  gold.  Some  of
this  money  is  money  temporarily  remitted  to  us  ;  a  great
part  of  it  is  money  raised  on  our  credit,  repayable  after  a  certain
period,  but  at  any  given  moment  withdrawable  at  notice.
If  our  foreign  creditors  all  want  to  be  paid  in  gold  at  the  same
time,  we  should  be  unable  to  do  it.  Luckily,  such  a  contin-
gency need  not  even  be  contemplated,  except  on  the  out-
break of  a  serious  war.  Given  time,  we  could  pay  our  debts
even  then.     The  question  is  whether  we  should  be  given  time.

What,  then,  is  likely  to  happen  on  the  outbreak  of  such  a
war  ?  Suppose,  for  instance,  Germany  declared  war  against
us.  A  crisis  in  the  money  market  would  be  at  once  precipi-
tated. Everybody  would  be  seeking  to  place  themselves  in  a
position  to  meet  their  engagements.  Money  would  dry  up,  and
the  Bank  rate  would  be  forced  to  a  high  figure.  At  the  same
time  there  would  be  a  tremendous  fall  in  value  of  all  securities
on  the  Stock  Exchange,  so  great  a  fall  that  the  Stock  Exchange
might  even  have  to  be  closed.  Banks  would  have  to  "  carry  "
their  customers  who  had  borrowed  against  securities,  and  would
find  a  large  part  of  their  assets  unrealizable.  The  discount
market,  i.e.,  the  bill  market,  would  be  no  better  off.  Business
would  be  at  a  standstill,  paralysed  by  suspicion.  The  value
of  a  bill  depends  on  the  soundness  of  the  "  names  "  on  it,
and  there  would  be  no  firm  which  might  not  be  unsound  in  such
a  time.    Our  foreign  clients,  too,  might  in  many  cases  have


LOMBARD  STREET  AND  WAR  26

great  difficulty  in  remitting  us  "  cover  '*  for  the  bills  falling
due  accepted  on  their  account.  In  the  case  of  Germany  itself,
there  would  be  some  doubt  whether  we  should  be  able  to  obtain
payment  at  all.  Under  the  English  law  war  cuts  off  all
intercourse  between  the  subjects  of  the  two  countries  at  war,
the  payment  of  all  debts  between  them  is  suspended  until  after
the  end  of  the  war.  Presumably  the  German  law  is  not  very
different.  It  would  appear,  therefore,  that  the  only  way  of
settling  outstanding  debts  between  citizens  of  the  two  countries
would  be  for  these  debts  to  be  assigned  to  third  parties,  or
money  remitted  through  third  parties.  No  doubt  all  respect-
able houses  would  do  their  best  to  meet  their  engagements  in
one  way  or  another.  The  question  is  rather  whether  they
could  do  so.

London  finances  Germany  by  means  of  acceptances  to  the
extent  probably  of  about  £70,000,000  sterling  at  any  one
time.  This  means  that  accepting  houses  in  London  will  have
made  themselves  responsible  during  the  two  or  three  months
after  the  outbreak  of  war  for  the  payment,  mainly  to  the  Joint
Stock  Banks,  of  £70,000,000  against  bills  drawn  on  German
account,  which  these  banks  and  others  will  have  bought  in  the
discount  market.  But  the  accepting  houses  would  only  be  in
a  position  to  pay  the  whole  of  this  large  sum  if  they  receive,  as
they  would  in  the  ordinary  course  of  affairs,  the  same  amount
from  their  German  clients,  to  finance  whose  business  the  bills
were  drawn.  It  is  quite  probable  that  these  clients  would  not
or  could  not  pay.  It  is  probable  that  in  any  case,  whether  their
money  were  received  or  not,  the  discount  market  would  be  so
hopelessly  disorganized  that  a  "  moratorium  "  would  have  to  be
declared.  Otherwise  every  one  would  be  compelled  to  call
in  his  loans  and  liquidate  his  position  in  order  to  find  the  means
of  payment  and,  as  every  crisis  has  proved,  that  course  would
be  fatal.  The  whole  credit  system  rests  on  the  supply  of
banking  currency.  If  this  currency  is  withdrawn  no  one
can  meet  his  debts,  because  no  one  has  the  means  to  pay.  The
whole  money  market  would  be  struck  with  paralysis.  As
Bagehot  said,  all  that  would  be  left  would  be  a  mass  of  failures
and  a  bundle  of  securities.  In  any  case  the  sudden  stop  of
the  discount  machinery  would  cause  incalculable  damage  and


26  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

confusion  to  trade  and  enterprise  throughout  the  world.  There
is  little  doubt  that  in  order  to  prevent  internal  demands  from
exhausting  the  Bank's  resources  the  Bank  Act  would  have  to
be  suspended  and  a  free  issue  of  bank-notes  legalized.  But
bank-notes  are  no  good  as  an  international  currency,  and
everything  therefore  would  depend  on  the  action  of  our  foreign
clients  as  a  whole.  If  they  took  fright  and  demanded  im-
mediate payment  in  gold,  London  might  have  to  put  up  her
shutters  as  a  free  gold  market,  simply  through  lack  of  time  to
save  herself  by  the  realization  of  some  of  her  immense  assets
abroad.

We  may  hope,  indeed,  that  matters  would  develop  differ-
ently and  that  most  of  our  foreign  creditors  would  behave
decently  and  would  do  everything  in  their  power  to  help  us.
In  addition  to  the  great  risks  of  gold  transport  there  would  be
every  reason  why  they  should,  just  as  there  is  every  reason
why  an  ordinary  depositor  should  do  his  level  best  not  to
embarrass  his  own  bank.  The  surest  way  of  his  losing  money
is  for  his  bank  to  be  compelled  to  close  its  shutters.  So  if
London  put  up  her  shutters  as  the  bank  of  the  world,  heavy
loss  and  confusion  would  fall  on  all  these  countries,  which
utilize  her  services  and  whose  credits  and  advances  would  not
be  renewed.  It  is  hard  to  exaggerate  the  difficulties  into
which  the  whole  financial  world  would  be  plunged,  or  to  foresee
how  London's  place  could  be  filled.  Confidence  is  a  plant  of
slow  growth,  and  no  other  centre  possesses  that  combination
of  qualities  that  has  given  London  her  pre-eminence.

It  has  been  suggested  that  if  we  were  at  war  with  Germany,
the  Germans  might  not  shrink  from  the  most  extreme  action
in  order  to  damage  us,  and  withdraw,  for  instance,  in  gold  all
the  money  they  had  in  London  available.  It  is  doubtful
whether  they  would  or  could  do  so.  In  the  first  place,  as  stated
above,  the  English  law  would  forbid  Englishmen  to  have  any
intercourse  at  all  with  Germans.  Furthermore,  their  power  to
withdraw  money  would  depend  on  the  proportion  of  our
liabilities  to  them  compared  with  theirs  to  us.  It  implies,
moreover,  a  concerted  action  on  the  part  of  all  or  most  German
firms.  Presumably  the  gold  withdrawn  would  be  liable  to
capture,  at  any  rate  unless  the  transactions  were  carried  out


LOMBARD  STREET  AND  WAR  27

through  some  other  nation.    And,  lastly,  any  such  action  if
successful  would  damage  Germany  almost  as  much  as  ourselves.

It  is  certain,  for  instance,  that  a  first-class  war  would  of
itself  deal  a  heavy  blow  to  Germany's  trade  and  finance,  be-
cause, if  it  is  bad  for  a  creditor  not  to  be  paid,  it  is  still  worse
for  the  debtor  not  to  be  able  to  renew  the  loans,  without  which
he  cannot  continue  his  business.  That  blow  would  be  repeated
with  redoubled  force  in  the  world-crisis  which  would  follow
the  destruction  of  London's  credit  system.

Behind  our  foreign  creditors  are  our  millions  of  depositors.
How  would  they  act,  if  the  withdrawal  of  gold  by  our  foreign
creditors  threatened  completely  to  empty  the  vaults  of  the
Bank  of  England  ?  Would  they  still  retain  complete  confidence
in  the  value  of  a  bank-note  ?  In  1907  depositors  in  the  United
States  hoarded  many  millions  of  gold.  A  supply  of  £200,000,000
was  found  quite  inadequate  to  meet  the  demands.  In  previous
internal  panics  in  England  the  Bank's  reserve  has  been  reduced
almost  to  nothing  in  a  few  hours.

The  disappearance  of  the  Bank's  reserve  would  mean  a
temporary  collapse  of  our  banking  system.  The  very  extremity
of  the  situation  might  bring  its  own  remedy.  People  would
be  compelled  to  continue  carrying  on  their  business  by  means
of  cheques,  or  some  emergency  currency,  simply  because  there
would  be  no  other  means  of  carrying  on  life  at  all,  even  though
they  knew  it  was  impossible  to  get  gold  if  it  were  required.
Nevertheless,  the  collapse  of  credit  would  be  a  tremendous
blow  to  industry.  To  high  prices  and  a  food  famine  would  be
added  a  great  mass  of  unemployment,  which  would  seriously
hamper  us  in  continuing  the  struggle.  From  the  purely
banking  point  of  view  the  fact  that  biljs  on  London  would
no  longer  be  unquestionably  convertible  into  gold  would  be  a
great  shock  to  London's  position.  Such  bills  are  held  all
over  the  Continent  by  the  great  banking  institutions,  because
they  are  as  good  as  gold.  It  would  be  long  before  confidence
in  them  was  again  restored  and  meanwhile  London's  rivals
might  have  begun  to  establish  themselves  in  her  place.

Our  safety  therefore  depends  on  our  being  given  a  breathing
space  to  adjust  ourselves  to  the  new  conditions.  If  time  is
given  there  is  no  doubt  that  London  has  the  power  to  draw  all


28  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

the  gold  she  wants  from  other  countries.  The  Bank  of  England
authorities  have  recently  said  that,  so  far  as  the  Bank's  ex-
perience goes,  the  raising  of  the  Bank  rate  to  a  sufficient  level,
which  means,  in  other  words,  that  money  can  be  employed
more  profitably  in  London  than  other  centres,  never  fails  to
attract  gold,  provided  the  higher  rate  is  kept  effective.  It
acts  both  to  prevent  gold  leaving  the  country  and  to  attract
gold  to  it.  The  floating  supply  of  money  in  the  great  centres
is  attracted  towards  the  highest  rates  as  certainly  as  water
flows  to  a  lower  level.  Sometimes  the  stream  does  not  flow
freely  at  the  start.  The  central  banks  of  the  Continent  are
loth  to  part  with  their  gold  and  sometimes  make  difficulties
until  the  rate  in  London  has  reached  a  figure  which  threatens
disturbance  to  their  own  financial  position.  Yet  gold  comes
more  easily  to  London  than  anywhere  else,  as  was  apparent
in  the  American  crisis  of  1907,  the  greatest  external  strain  to
which  the  Bank  of  England  has  been  subjected.  America  in
her  eagerness  for  gold  was  drawing  millions  from  London,  and
if  London  could  not  get  it  from  elsewhere  her  position  would
become  serious.  But  she  did  get  it  from  elsewhere.  The
Bank  rate  was  gradually  raised  to  7  per  cent,  and  gold  flowed
in  from  twenty-four  different  countries.  The  flow  of  gold
was  aided  by  a  recognition  on  the  part  of  the  leading  con-
tinental authorities  that  London's  cause  was  their  own,  and
that  they  must  come  to  London's  aid  if  they  wished  to  save
their  own  skins.

In  a  war  crisis,  however,  to  raise  the  Bank  rate  might  not
be  so  effective,  since  a  distrust  of  London's  capacity  to  hold
out  might  be  prevalent,  and  since  no  one  would  care  to  risk
sending  gold  there.  Moreover,  it  is  to  be  remembered  that
London  might  be  deprived  of  the  South  African  gold,  which
might  easily  find  Paris  or  New  York  a  safer  destination.  At
the  same  time  the  assets  of  the  British  nation  abroad  are  so
immense  that  if  they  were  under  the  necessity  of  realizing  them,
it  is  difficult  to  suppose  they  could  not  draw  gold  to  London.
They  might  ^ot  even  have  to  realize  these  assets  ;  it  might  be
enough  simply  to  stop  the  export  of  capital.  Gold  would
flow  in  then  to  pay  for  the  interest  on  our  present  investments,
which  amounts  to  something  like  £180,000,000  per  annum.


LOMBABD  STBEET  AND  WAR  29

The  most  dangerous  period,  therefore,  will  be  the  few  days
or  weeks  after  the  declaration  of  war,  or  if  it  was  quite  clear
war  was  inevitable  the  few  days  before  that  declaration,  when
our  enemies  might  attempt  to  withdraw  as  much  money  as
possible.  What  happens  will  depend  upon  the  coolness  of  our
own  people,  and  the  view  which  foreigners  take  of  our  strength.
If  we  are  defeated  a  financial  collapse  can  hardly  be  averted.
So  long  as  we  are  reasonably  secure  against  defeat  we  ought
with  luck  to  be  able  to  pull  through,  shaken  no  doubt,  but  not
permanently  damaged.  If  we  are  victorious,  we  shall  have
ample  time  to  convalesce.  It  is  hardly  necessary  to  draw  the
moral.  The  British  fleet  is  the  best  protector  of  London's
gold  reserve.

Ill

If  the  foregoing  analysis  is  at  all  correct,  the  development
of  the  financial  crisis  that  an  outbreak  of  war  must  bring  would
depend  on  the  way  it  was  met  at  the  outset.  A  few  millions,
more  or  less,  might  make  the  difference  in  our  ability  to  meet  it
without  the  necessity  of  suspending  cash  payments.  If,  there-
fore, our  reserve  of  gold  is,  as  is  generally  admitted,  rather
uncomfortably  small,  there  would  seem  every  reason  to  insure
ourselves  more  securely  against  risk  by  increasing  it.  The
Bank  of  France  holds  gold  to  the  amount  of  £128,000,000  ;
the  Bank  of  Russia,£125,000,000  ;  the  Reichsbank,  £55,000,000  ;
while  the  Bank  of  England,  with  world-wide  liabilities,  has
only  £35,000,000.

The  size  of  our  reserve  is  not  the  result  of  design,  but  of
accident.  In  1844  Parliament,  impressed  by  the  evils  of  an
over  issue  of  bank-notes,  practically  limited  the  privilege  of
issue  to  the  Bank  of  England,  and  determined  that  the  Bank
should  not  issue  any  notes  over  a  certain  amount  (now  about
£18,000,000),  unless  gold  to  an  equal  amount  was  deposited
in  its  vaults.  Bank-notes  were  then  the  basis  of  credit,  and
Parliament  wished  to  clip  its  wings.  It  is  not  worth  while
now  asking  ourselves  whether  that  act  was  wise  or  stupid.
But  it  is  worth  while  noting  that,  though  originating  in  pro-
foundly different  conditions  and  in  course  of  time  wholly
nullified  in  its  intentions,  that  Act  is  the  sole  regulator  of  the


30  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

size  of  our  gold  reserve  to-day.  It  was  not  long  before  the
City  discovered  a  means  of  circumventing  the  intention  of
its  authors.  Cheques  took  the  place  of  bank-notes,  and  though
credit  liabilities  under  this  new  system  soon  far  exceeded
those  under  the  old,  the  law  was  silent  as  to  maintenance  of
an  increased  reserve.  If  the  cheque  had  not  been  invented,  and
we  had  been  restricted  to  bank-notes,  a  huge  reserve  would
have  by  this  time  been  stored  in  the  Bank.

In  other  countries,  in  France,  Russia  and  Germany,  the
gold  reserve  is  also,  as  in  England,  based  on  the  note  issue.
It  is  much  larger  because  notes  are  still  used  and  not  cheques.
In  England,  the  note  issue,  though  still  regulating  the  reserve,
has  ceased  to  bear  any  important  relation  to  the  amount   of
credit.     But,  while  the  size  of  the  reserve  is  thus  determined
by  an  obsolete  law,  that  law  has  completely  failed  to  determine
how  much  credit  shall  be  manufactured  on  the  basis  it  lays
down.     It  prescribes  the  size  of  the  foundations,  but  sets  no
limit  to  the  superstructure.     The  Bank  of  England  determines
the  amount  of  credit  to  some  degree,  but  to  a  much  greater
degree  the  other  banks,  large  and  small,  and  with  them  the
accepting  houses.     For  the  banks,  as  we  saw,  supply  the  cur-
rency in  the  form  mainly  of  book-credits,  against  which  cheques
may  be  drawn.     The  overwhelmingly  greater  proportion  of
money  transactions  in  England  are  settled  by  means  of  cheques
and  bills.     Bank-notes  are  negligible  as  currency,  and  perhaps
not  more  than  1  per  cent  of  our  daily  business  is  settled  in  gold.
Now  every  credit  or  advance  given,  since  it  creates,  somewhere
or  other,  an  equivalent  deposit,  creates,  equally,  a  possible
claim  against  the  gold  reserve,  and  thus  the  responsibility  for
maintaining   an   adequate   gold  reserve — or,   more   correctly
stated,  for  seeing  that  the  manufacture  of  credit  is  kept  within
reasonable    bounces — rests    with    bankers,    large    and    small.
Diffused  responsibility  is  never  felt  very  keenly,  and  it  is  some-
what  disconcerting  to  find   that  while  nearly  every  leading
banker  will  admit  that  credit  is  often  manufactured  too  freely
and  that  our  cash  reserves  are  not  as  large  as  they  should  be,
the  banking  community,  as  a  whole,  does  not  seem  inclined
to  adopt  the  obvious  remedy.     That  remedy  is  that  the  banks,
as  a  whole,  should   either  reduce   their  credit  liabilities  or


LOMBARD  STREET  AND  WAR  31

increase  their  cash  holdings.  Other  specific  remedies  have
often  been  suggested,  the  repayment  by  the  Government  to
the  Bank  of  its  debt  of  £11,000,000,  the  origin  of  which  dates
back  to  William  III ;  the  issue  of  £1  notes  ;  the  maintenance
of  a  cash  reserve  by  the  Post  Office  Savings  Bank.  Some  of
these  would  certainly  help.  But  most  important  of  all  is  the
recognition  by  the  banking  community  as  a  whole  that,  if
credit,  as  they  say,  has  outrun  gold,  the  true  remedy  lies  to
their  hand.

The  difficulty  is  that  it  is  nobody's  business  in  particular  to
take  the  first  step.  We  have  "  drifted  "  down  this  stream,  as
down  so  many  others,  and  with  such  brilliant  success  hitherto,
that  we  may  be  lulled  into  a  false  security.  In  normal  times
the  credit  machinery  does  certainly  work  extraordinarily  well.
It  is  a  marvel  of  economy,  delicacy,  and  elasticity.  The
question  is  whether  it  does  not  work  too  well.  If  we  tried,  we
could  no  doubt  in  times  of  peace  make  it  a  still  greater  marvel
of  economy  and  delicacy,  and  work  with  a  still  smaller  reserve
— just  as  a  man  may,  for  many  years,  defy  the  risks  of  fire  and
accident.  But  nobody  supposes  we  should  be  wise  to  do  so.
Our  danger,  as  we  have  pointed  out,  is  that  a  crisis  may  bring
a  sudden  and  unbearable  strain  on  our  liquid  resources,  without
giving  us  time  to  realize  our  immense  assets.  It  is  not  sug-
gested that  any  system  adapted  to  peace  can  be  wholly  satis-
factory in  war.  We  might  as  well  live  under  perpetual  martial
law  in  times  of  peace.  But  there  is  at  least  a  case  for  mini-
mizing our  risks.  And  if,  despite  their  misgivings,  bankers  will
not,  or  cannot,  make  up  their  minds  whether  anything  ought
to  be  done,  it  is  the  duty  of  the  Government  to  make  a  careful
inquiry  into  the  matter.  Legislation  is  indeed  too  clumsy  an
instrument  for  our  needs .  What  is  needed  is  a  full  investigation
as  to  the  best  means  of  quickening  the  banking  and  financial
community,  as  a  whole,  to  a  sense  of  their  responsibilities,  and
of  preparing  the  Government  for  such  steps  as  they  may  have
to  take  on  the  outbreak  of  war.

IV

It  is  clear  that  every  country  having  commercial  or  economic
relations  with  Great  Britain  would  suffer  seriously  in  the  general


32  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

welter  of  confusion  brought  on  by  a  collapse  of  credit  in  London.
The  closer  their  relations,  and  the  more  dependent  they  were
on  London  for  capital,  the  worse  would  be  their  state.  No
countries  would  suffer  more  than  the  British  Dominions  beyond
the  Seas.  This  hard  fact,  of  which  there  can  be  no  doubt,  runs
counter  to  some  comfortable  doctrines  somewhat  widely  held
in  those  countries.

There  are  a  large  number  of  people  in  all  the  Dominions,
except  South  Africa,  who  regard  war  as  an  anachronism,  in-
dulged in  only  by  mediaeval  European  nations,  and  easily  to
be  avoided  by  the  exercise  of  a  little  common  sense.  They
are  led  on  to  the  comfortable  belief  that,  since  it  is  foolish  to
fight,  and  since  Europeans  are,  after  all,  reasonable  people,
therefore  there  is  no  danger  of  their  fighting.  And  in  any
case,  they  conclude,  no  great  harm  can  come  to  those  who  live
on  the  other  side  of  the  ocean.  Might  it  not  be  as  well  to  let
the  old  world  settle  its  differences  by  itself  ?

This  is  a  comforting  but  vain  belief.  Any  nation  which
thinks  that  by  determining  to  take  no  part  in  war  it  will  be
unaffected  by  its  consequences,  is  living  in  a  fool's  paradise.
You  cannot  eat  your  cake  and  have  it.  You  cannot  both
belong  to  the  modern  world  and  not  belong  to  it.  A  nation
which  enjoys  the  advantages  of  international  trade  and  credit,
cannot  at  will  cut  the  threads  which  bind  it  to  other  nations.
No  Dominion  can  hope  to  escape  serious  damage  if  Great
Britain  is  hard  pressed  in  a  great  war.  Their  trade  is  very
largely — in  the  case  of  all  except  Canada,  preponderately —
with  England.  Just  like  other  countries  they  treat  London  as
their  banking  centre.  All  their  big  banks  have  branches  in
London.  They  keep  a  great  deal  of  money  there.  They
borrow  London's  credit.  Their  own  banking  system  is  largely
dependent  on  London  ;  their  means  of  financing  their  imports
and  exports  almost  wholly  so.  The  large  supply  of  new  capital
which  London  gives  them  yearly  is  to  Canada  its  life-blood
and  to  all  of  them  of  great  importance.  The  majority  of  them
have  few  resources  of  their  own  to  fall  back  upon.  It  is  not
indeed  necessary  to  presuppose  any  such  disaster  as  the  defeat
of  our  navy  to  see  that  the  Dominions  must  suffer  with  us  in
time  of  war.    They  must  suffer  with  us  whatever  our  fortunes.


LOMBARD  STREET  AND  WAR  83

If  we  are  victorious,  their  troubles  may  not  last  long.  But
they  will  grow  more  acute  the  more  uncertain  become  our
prospects.  A  first-class  war  is  bound  to  bring  with  it,  at  best,
a  great  dislocation  of  trade,  a  great  restriction  of  credit,  and
a  great  destruction  of  capital.  The  worse  matters  go  for  us,
the  worse  will  the  machinery  be  thrown  out  of  gear.  Not
only  will  the  dislocation  of  our  trade  and  our  financial  system
dislocate  those  of  the  Dominions  too,  but  the  springs  of  capital
will  dry  up.  London  will  have  no  money  to  spare  them  and
it  is  doubtful  whether,  at  such  a  moment,  other  countries,  not
excluding  even  the  United  States,  would  be  able  to  fill  London's
place.  New  countries  which  are  rapidly  expanding  always
suffer  from  trade  and  monetary  depression  more  than  old
ones,  just  as  an  unfinished  house  is  bound  to  suffer  if  the  money
gives  out  before  the  roof  is  on.

Capital  in  a  new  and  expanding  country  is  not  spent  to
provide  for  the  population  that  is  already  there,  but  for  the
population  that  will  be  there.  Railways  and  roads  are  built,
shops  and  stores  opened,  townships  laid  out,  and  factories
equipped  far  beyond  the  needs  of  the  existing  inhabitants.
Prices  for  land  rise  quickly.  A  general  optimism  prevails  and
the  future  is  gaily  discounted.  But  the  whole  structure  de-
pends on  a  constant  supply  of  capital.  Unless  the  expenditure
of  capital  goes  on,  great  numbers  of  men  will  soon  be  out  of
work.  And  if  there  is  no  work  to  do,  the  expected  immigrants
will  certainly  not  come.  And  if  they  do  not  come  the  railways
and  factories  and  stores  will  not  pay,  and  the  speculators  in
real  estate,  at  inflated  prices,  will  be  unable  to  hold  on  to  their
property.  Pessimism  will  succeed  optimism,  and  depression
will  be  proportionate  to  the  height  of  former  expectations.
It  will  be  intensified  if,  at  the  same  time,  their  banking  system
is  deranged,  the  chief  market  for  many  of  their  products
stagnant,  and  their  commerce  the  prey  of  a  hostile  fleet.

Naturally  the  Dominions  would  not  all  suffer  equally.
Australia  is  more  self-supporting  in  the  matter  of  capital
than  Canada,  and  for  reasons  which  do  not  concern  us  here,
her  rate  of  progress  is  markedly  slower.  South  Africa  and  New
Zealand  have  given  fewer  hostages  to  fortune.  In  the  last
three  years  Great  Britain  has  raised,  by  means  of  public  issues

D


34  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

in  London,  irrespective  of  capital  employed  privately,  for
Canada,  £103,000,000  ;  for  Australia,  £29,000,000  ;  for  New
Zealand,  over  £7,000,000  ;  and  for  South  Africa,  £30,000,000.
From  the  figures  given  on  page  16,  it  will  be  seen  that  Great
Britain  has  invested  in  the  Empire  no  less  than  £1,652,000,000,
of  which  Australasia  has  taken  £395,000,000  and  Canada
£365,000,000.  This  is  probably  a  conservative  estimate.  And
Great  Britain  has  not  only  provided  this  mass  of  capital,  but
provided  it  on  more  generous  terms  than  she  has  afforded  to
any  other  borrower.  Sentiment  has  led  the  British  people
to  supply  their  own  feUow-subjects  oversea  with  money  at
least  1  per  cent  cheaper  than  foreign  countries,  and  Sir  Edgar
Speyer  calculated  recently  that  the  annual  interest  saving  to
the  Dominions  and  Dependencies  is  at  least  £10,000,000,  a
very  handsome  preference.  In  other  words,  for  the  same  pay-
ment of  interest  these  countries  have  been  able  to  raise
£250,000,000  additional  capital.  Moreover,  to  the  detriment,
be  it  said,  of  Consols,  Great  Britain  has  added  to  her  list  of
Trustee  Stocks  about  £650,000,000  of  Colonial  and  Indian
Stocks  and  thus  enabled  the  Dominion,  Provincial,  and  State
Governments  of  the  Empire  to  raise  money  on  far  more  favour-
able terms  than  would  otherwise  have  been  possible.  When
questions  are  raised  as  to  the  return  which  Great  Britain  gives
to  the  trade  preferences  of  the  Dominions,  the  enormous  advan-
tages the  latter  gain  by  the  preferential  treatment  of  their  issues,
both  by  the  people  and  the  Government  of  Great  Britain,
should  not  be  forgotten.  If  some  great  convulsion  checks  the
flow  of  capital  from  Great  Britain  no  other  lender  will  be  found
from  whom  such  terms  can  be  obtained.

It  is  clear,  therefore,  that  in  their  measure  every  British
Dominion  would  suffer  with  Great  Britain,  and  it  would  seem
that,  even  if  no  loftier  motives  swayed  them,  seK-interest
alone  should  lead  them  to  spend  every  penny  they  can  afford
on  placing  beyond  question  the  supremacy  of  the  British  flag
at  sea.

Yet  there  is  a  risk  lest  both  the  danger  itself  and  its  nature
should  go  unrecognized  in  the  Dominions.  In  those  far  lands
the  very  idea  of  war  has  become  unreal.  Sheltered  by  the
British  flag  from  the  pressure  of  hard  facts,  remote  from  the


LOMBARD  STREET  AND  WAR  35

conflict  of  nations,  these  favoured  communities  have  forgotten
that  a  nation  may  still  be  called  upon  to  fight  for  its  liberties
and  its  place  in  the  world,  and  even  for  its  very  existence.
War,  they  say,  is  obsolete.  Are  they  so  certain  about  it  ?
Are  there  no  causes  for  which  even  the  most  up-to-date  and
reasonable  nations  would  draw  the  sword  ?  Would  the
Australians  confine  themselves  to  protest  while  the  Chinese
landed  in  their  millions  in  the  Northern  Territories,  or  Canada
be  content  merely  to  reason  while  the  Asiatic  flood  poured  into
British  Columbia  ?  No  attempt  has  been  made  in  these  pages
to  minimize  the  lamentable  effects  of  a  great  war  on  the  material
well-being  of  the  nations  involved.  In  modern  times  both
victor  and  vanquished  must  suffer  heavily.  But  while  con-
siderations of  material  loss  will,  and  should,  weigh  heavily
against  war,  they  will  never  be  decisive.  War  threatens  the
world  still,  because  its  nations  are  still  rooted  in  the  past.
There  are  still  profound  differences  of  language,  tradition  and
ideals  even  between  the  nations  of  Eiu-ope,  while  between  the
black,  yellow  and  white  races  are  gulfs  which  may  never  be
bridged.  In  each  nation  these  forces  of  language,  tradition
and  ideals  are  fused  into  a  national  spirit,  for  which  in  the
English  language  there  is  no  word  nearer  than  patriotism,
but  which  the  Germans  call  Deutschtum,  that  national  idea
for  which  every  good  German  is  taught  to  die.  So  long  as
these  deep  national  differences  persist,  so  long  is  there  a
danger  that  they  may  clash  in  their  effort  to  live  and  to  expand.
Some  day  they  may  be  merged  into  a  wider  patriotism,  but
that  day  will  not  come  in  our  time.

War,  then,  is  not  all  a  matter  of  pounds,  shillings  and  pence,
and  the  problem  is  not  wholly  solved  when  you  have  shown
that  every  war  must  leave  both  sides  poorer  than  they  were
before.  Does  England  grudge  the  money  which  Chatham
spent  on  the  conquest  of  Canada  ?  Germany  did  not  fight
France  in  1870  to  make  money,  but  to  become  a  nation  ;  the
ideals  for  which  Garibaldi  fought  are  none  the  less  splendid
because  they  cannot  be  weighed  in  a  balance  sheet ;  neither
the  Northern  nor  the  Southern  States  of  America  hesitated  in
1865  to  defend  principles  which  they  held  sacred,  nor  were
deterred  by  the  reason,  unanswerable  in  logic,  that  war  must


36  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

inevitably  involve  incalculable  material  loss.  Japan  did  not
fight  Russia  in  1905  because  she  believed  Korea  would  be  a
profitable  possession,  but  because  she  felt,  rightly  or  wrongly,
that  Russia,  established  across  the  narrow  sea,  would  cramp
the  freedom  of  her  national  life.  England  did  not  fight  in  South
Africa  in  1899  because  she  thought  that  the  Transvaal  and  the
Free  State  would  pay  their  way,  but  because  she  could  not  in
honour  desert  her  own  people  and  because  she  deemed  it  of
vital  importance  that  British  freedom  and  British  institutions
should  not  vanish  from  that  wide  land.  The  Boers  loved  their
own  customs  and  institutions  with  equal  intensity.  It  was  a
clash  of  national  wiUs  and  national  ideals  not  to  be  avoided.
The  Germans  are  sore  now  because  they  feel  that  Deutschtum
has  not  got  its  fair  place  in  the  world.  They  want  colonies,
not  in  order  to  make  money  out  of  them,  but  in  order  to
spread  German  civilization,  which,  in  their  eyes,  is  more
valuable  than  anything  else  in  the  world.  If  the  British
people  had  been  wholly  guided  by  reason,  they  would  no
doubt  have  hesitated  as  to  whether  the  life  of  even  Gordon
was  worth  the  millions  spent  on  the  expedition  to  relieve  him.
But  they  knew  they  would  have  been  dishonoured,  had  they
counted  the  cost.  It  is  well  for  us  to  remember  the  tremendous
liabilities  in  which  war  will  involve  us,  so  that  we  may  soberly
weigh  the  issues  involved  and  make  sure  that  they  are  vital.
But  when  they  are  vital,  the  cost  will  weigh  light  in  the  balance
against  the  maintenance  and  defence  of  the  British  realm.


II

LOMBARD    STREET   IN   WAR

(September,  1914)


The  brief  and  very  incomplete  financial  diary  given  at  the
end  of  this  article,  unintelligible  though  some  of  its  contents
may  be  to  the  layman,  affords  nevertheless  some  indica-
tion of  the  profound  and  far-reaching  disturbance  caused
throughout  the  financial  world  by  the  great  European  war.
The  time  is  not  ripe  for  a  thorough  examination  of  the  crisis
in  all  the  money  centres  of  the  world  and  of  the  varying  methods
adopted  to  meet  it.  All  that  is  aimed  at  now  in  these  pages
is  to  give  a  short  account  of  what  actually  happened  in  London.
There  is  no  little  difficulty  in  doing  this  clearly  as  well  as
shortly.  For  finance,  like  philosophy,  has  an  unintelligible
language  of  its  own.  Moreover,  the  mechanism  of  the  City
is  in  actual  fact  very  intricate  and  complicated,  difficult  to
grasp  as  a  whole  and  still  more  difficult  to  expound.  Hardly
a  statement  can  be  made  that  ought  not  to  be  qualified  in
some  way  or  other,  if  exact  truth  is  to  be  attained.  But  this
is  quite  impossible  within  the  space  of  a  few  pages.  The
picture  given  will  therefore  be  painted  only  with  the  broadest
of  brushes.

London  is  the  financial  capital  of  the  world,  the  world's
bank,  the  world's  clearing  house,  the  world's  greatest  Stock
Exchange,  the  only  free  market  for  gold,  the  greatest  lender
of  money  and  credit.  All  the  world  owes  London  money.
London  therefore  must  be  more  affected  by  a  world-wide  crisis,
and  a  world-wide  financial  and  commercial  paralysis,  than  any
other  centre.  Other  centres  will  have  suffered  very  severely,
but  in  no  other  case  is  the  whole  world  so  vitally  affected.

37


38  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

Perhaps  the  City's  most  outstanding  feature  is  that  it  is  the
greatest  manufacturer  of  credit  in  the  world.  In  the  modern
world  all  transactions  which  are  not  conducted  by  means  of
barter,  or  by  the  actual  exchange  of  gold  and  silver  against
goods  or  securities — and  these  are  of  course  infinitesimal  in
proportion  to  the  whole — are  carried  through  by  means  of
credit.  By  means  of  the  invention  of  joint  stock  banks,
limited  liability  companies,  stocks  and  shares,  bills  of  exchange
and  so  forth  the  wealth  of  the  world  is  liquefied,  mobilized,
concentrated,  divided  into  convenient  shares,  and  passed  from
hand  to  hand  and  from  country  to  country  through  the  great
monetary  centres  of  the  world.  The  titles  to  wealth,  whether
they  be  a  deposit  account  in  a  bank,  on  which  one  may  draw
cheques,  or  a  bank-note,  or  a  promissory  note,  or  a  share,  or  a
bond  or  a  bill  of  exchange,  are  not  real  wealth  in  themselves,
but  merely  represent  it.  But  they  enable  wealth  to  be  dealt
with,  handled,  borrowed  and  lent,  and  it  is  on  the  security  of
these  titles  to  wealth  representing  the  wealth  underlying  them
that  the  banking  community  lends  money.  The  lender  never
lends  except  on  the  assumption  that  the  borrower  has  or  will
have  the  means  to  repay  with  interest,  and  in  the  vast  majority
of  cases  the  borrower  must  give  some  security  or  other  as
evidence  of  his  ability  to  repay.  Thereupon  he  obtains
"  credit  "  from  his  bank.  In  other  words,  the  bank  gives  him
the  right  to  use  some  of  its  resources.  These  resources
it  obtains  through  the  invaluable  function  the  banking  com-
munity performs  of  concentrating  all  the  scattered  wealth
of  the  country  which  private  individuals  and  companies
deposit  with  them.  It  then  lends  them  out  to  those  who  in
its  judgment  can  utilize  them  to  the  best  result  and  can  offer
the  best  and  most  liquid  security  and  the  surest  guarantee
of  repayment.  The  enormous  credits  in  the  way  of  loans,
discounts  and  advances  granted  by  the  banking  world  to  all
and  sundry  are  possible  only  through  the  enormous  deposits
made  with  the  banks — amounting  in  the  case  of  the  British
banks  to  over  £1,000,000,000.  This  wealth  is  not  left  lying
idle  in  the  banks'  vaults.  It  is  utilized  in  the  way  of  loans
and  purchases  of  securities  of  different  kinds.  It  may  be
loaned  against  stocks  and  shares  representing  wealth  in  the


LOMBARD  STREET  IN  WAR  39

form,  say,  of  a  railway  in  the  Argentine  or  a  brewery  in  Eng-
land, or  the  taxing  power  of  the  British  Government  as  repre-
sented by  Consols,  or  a  steel  company  in  Canada,  or  against
bills  of  exchange  representing  wealth  in  the  form  of  merchan-
dise, such  as  grain  from  America  or  coffee  from  Brazil  or  silk
from  Japan.  The  forms  of  wealth  on  which  banking  loans
are  secured  are  as  endless  indeed  as  the  variety  of  things
in  the  world  which  are  useful  and  therefore  valuable  to  man-
kind.

Now,  since  the  depositors  of  a  bank  may  at  any  moment
require  their  money  back,  it  is  obviously  of  first-class  impor-
tance that  the  loans  which  a  bank  has  made  should  be  repaid
whenever  required  and  that  the  securities  which  it  has  bought,
whether  they  be  shares  or  bonds  or  bills  of  exchange,  should
be  easily  liquidated  and  turned  into  cash.  Unfortunately,
the  very  fact  of  a  crisis  means  that  to  turn  anything  into  cash
becomes  difficult,  and  a  severe  crisis  means  not  only  that  it  is
impossible,  but  that  for  a  bank  to  try  to  turn  its  assets  into
cash  only  aggravates  the  crisis.  You  can  only  turn  your
holdings  of  securities  and  bills  of  exchange  into  cash  if  some
one  else  will  buy  them,  and  in  a  crisis  no  one  else  will  buy  them.
You  can  only  get  your  loans  repaid  if  your  debtors  get  their
loans  repaid  or  can  liquidate  themselves  by  getting  some  one
else  to  buy  the  securities  or  assets  which  they  hold.  That  is
just  what  no  one  in  a  crisis  will  do.  A  bank  may  make  loans
on  call  to  the  Money  Market,  which  at  ordinary  times  it  rightly
treats  as  equivalent  to  cash.  It  is  repaid  on  demand  in  all
ordinary  times  without  question.  But  in  a  crisis  the  Money
Market  cannot  repay  it,  because  it  cannot  sell  its  bills.  If  the
bank  insists  on  repayment,  the  debtor  must  go  into  default,
and  then  the  bank  is  worse  off  still.  It  has  not  got  its  loan
back,  and  it  has  caused  a  failure  which  may  have  the  most
far-reaching  consequences,  both  for  itself  and  for  all  other
financial  institutions.  In  a  crisis  all  the  devices  of  credit  for
making  wealth  liquid  fail.  The  whole  system  of  credit  is
based  on  the  assumption  that  things  will  go  on  normally,  that
every  one's  business  is  conducted  on  reasonable  anticipa-
tions of  profit,  that  every  one  will  pay  every  one  else  at  the
due  date.    It  is  based  on  confidence.    If  a  war  breaks  out,


40  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

then  every  one  knows  that  all  calculations  are  thrown  out,
that  all  anticipations  of  profit  or  of  every  one  paying  their
debts  at  the  right  time  are  certain  to  be  falsified.  All  confi-
dence is  destroyed.  The  destruction  of  confidence,  even  if
there  is  no  justification  for  it,  is  sufiicient  in  itself  to  bring  the
machinery  of  credit  to  a  stop.  No  one  then  likes  to  buy  or
loan  against  the  usual  evidences  of  wealth,  since  no  one  knows
in  such  times  what  they  are  worth — i.e.,  whether  anyone  will
buy  them  or,  if  they  can  be  sold,  at  what  price  or  what  real
wealth  is  at  the  back  of  them.

It  is  easy  to  see  why  this  must  be  so.  In  normal  times  the
titles  to  wealth,  such  as  stocks  and  shares,  bills  of  exchange
and  so  forth,  which  are  dealt  with  in  the  City,  do  normally
represent  the  actual  wealth  to  which  they  lay  claim  on  their
face.  Yet  even  in  normal  times  all  securities  go  up  and  down  in
value.  A  change  of  fashion,  a  bad  harvest,  over-expansion,
an  excess  or  lack  of  capital,  a  wrong  estimate  of  the  profitable-
ness of  a  particular  industry,  all  these  and  many  other  causes —
in  a  word,  everything  affecting  supply  and  demand — produce
a  rise  and  fall  in  the  prices  of  securities  because  they  affect
the  value  of  the  wealth  which  these  securities  represent.  Some
affect  a  single  industry.  For  instance,  a  sudden  fashion  for
furs  will  send  the  price  of  a  fur  company's  shares  up.  Others
affect  industry  in  general,  such  as  lack  of  capital  throughout
the  world.  But  normally  these  changes  are  foreseen  and
work  within  comparatively  narrow  limits.  But  not  so  in  a  pro-
digious catastrophe  like  the  present  war.  Then  every  estimate
is  upset.  No  one  knows  what  is  the  value  of  the  titles  to  wealth
he  possesses.  He  only  knows  they  are  probably  worth  less
than  before.  Some  few,  such  as  the  shares  of  armament  firms,
or  khaki  manufacturers  may  be  worth  more.  But  in  the  mass
securities  must  be  worth  less,  because  there  will  be  less  wealth.
Not  only  will  there  be  an  enormous  destruction  of  wealth,
but,  even  more  important  perhaps,  there  will  be  an  enormous
diminution  in  its  production  and  a  world-wide  dislocation  in
its  transfer  from  producer  to  consumer.  It  is  impossible
therefore  to  say  what  securities  are  worth.  Take  the  shares
of  a  cotton  estate  in  the  Southern  States  of  America.  That
industry  is  faced  with  tremendous  losses  owing  to  the  fact


LOMBARD  STREET  IN  WAR  41

that  its  market  on  the  Continent  of  Europe  has  suddenly  ceased
to  exist.  Take  again  the  shares  of  an  American  or  Australian
copper  mining  company.  The  market  for  copper  has  collapsed.
The  production  in  America  has  been  cut  down  to  about  25  per
cent.  The  copper  mines  in  Australia  have  been  shut  down.
Take  again  the  shares  of  a  railway  under  construction  in  some
new  country,  say  the  Argentine  or  Canada.  If  it  is  to  be  com-
pleted, it  must  have  more  capital.  Yet  Europe  is  the  only
place  it  can  get  capital  from  and  that  is  now  impossible.  These
are  merely  examples.  But  there  is  practically  no  industry
in  the  world  which  is  not  already  more  or  less  affected  by  the
war.  In  consequence  every  one  is  uncertain  of  every  one
else.  Have  they  locked  up  their  capital  in  securities,  which
must  now  inevitably  fall  immensely  in  value  ?  If  so,  they
may  not  be  able  to  meet  their  engagements.

How  does  all  this  affect  the  ordinary  depositor  ?  He  pro-
bably owns  some  securities.  He  knows  they  have  shrunk
enormously  in  value  and  he  begins  to  cast  anxious  glances
at  his  bank  balance.  He  knows  his  bank  invests  its  money
in  all  sorts  of  things,  advances,  bills  and  securities,  and  he
wonders  whether  they  also  must  not  have  shrunk  greatly  in
value.  He  wonders  whether  it  might  not  be  better  to  draw
his  money  out.  It  crosses  his  mind  that  even  a  big  joint  stock
bank  might  fail.  Of  course  it  might  fail,  and  the  one  abso-
lutely certain  way  to  make  it  fail,  whether  in  good  times  or
bad,  would  be  for  depositors  to  try  to  withdraw  their  money.
No  bank,  whether  in  good  times  or  bad,  can  possibly  pay  out
anything  like  all  its  depositors  at  the  same  time.  For  deposi-
tors to  begin  drawing  out  their  money  is  an  absolutely  fatal  and
suicidal  course.  They  have  only  to  sit  still,  and  their  money
will  be  perfectly  safe.  They  have  only  all  to  try  to  draw  it
out  and  they  will  all  lose  it.  Of  course  even  English  joint
stock  banks  will  have  losses,  and  heavy  losses  ;  but  their
securities  are  the  best  in  the  world,  and  their  losses  will  cer-
tainly not  be  greater  than  they  can  stand,  if  they  can  liquidate
their  assets  at  leisure.  It  is  without  doubt  true  to  say  that
even  to-day  the  total  assets  of  all  the  banks,  merchant  bankers,
and  discount  houses  in  London,  i.e.,  all  those  institutions  which
together  comprise  the  Money  Market,  a  long  way  exceed  their


42  WAR   AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

liabilities.  What  the  City  requires  is  time,  and  plenty  of  time,
to  work  out  its  salvation.  To  try  and  force  matters  in  the
middle  of  a  crisis  is  the  most  fatal  of  policies.

Every  one  in  business  owes  and  is  owed  money,  has  assets
and  liabilities.  The  whole  business  and  financial  community
is  tied  together  by  the  nexus  of  creditor  and  debtor.  It  is
like  a  pack  of  cards.  If  one  large  debtor,  on  whom  the  whole
community  counts  to  pay  his  debts,  in  order  that  they  may
be  able  to  pay  theirs,  "  falls  down,"  they  all  may  do  the  same.
One  big  failure  may  have  incalculable  consequences.  It  is
like  throwing  a  stone  into  the  middle  of  a  pond.  The  ripples
widen  out,  until  the  whole  surface  is  covered.  If  the  crisis
is  a  purely  financial  one,  and  proper  measures  are  taken,
confidence  is  not  long  in  returning  and  the  working  of  the
machinery  may  soon  be  normal  again.  But  a  great  war,
involving  the  universal  dislocation  of  trade  and  business
relations,  and  an  enormous  destruction  of  wealth  itself,  is  a
very  different  matter.  The  huge  dislocation  of  finance  and
commerce,  the  foreknowledge  of  the  enormous  resulting  de-
struction of  wealth,  the  complete  failure  of  confidence  are  of
themselves  enough,  even  before  a  life  has  been  lost  or  a  gun
fired,  to  bring  the  financial  machine  to  a  dead  stop.  No  one
knows  how  he  or  any  one  else  wiU  be  affected  by  the  war,  or
what  his  position  wiU  be  at  the  end  of  it.  He  does  not  know
if  some  at  least  of  his  debtors,  whether  in  this  country  or  abroad,
will  ever  be  able  to  pay  him,  or  if  so,  when.  AU  business  is
based  on  the  possibility  of  making  fairly  close  estimates  of  the
future,  and  in  war  no  one  can  make  any  estimates.  No  one
knows  therefore  who  will  be  able  to  stand  the  strain  of  war,
and  all  business  is  paralysed  by  suspicion  and  doubt.  No  one
knows  how  much  loss  his  existing  liabilities  may  cause  him  and
no  one  therefore  wants  to  contract  new  ones.  But  no  business
can  be  done  without  contracting  new  liabilities,  and  old  liabi-
lities cannot  be  liquidated  without  continuing  to  do  business.
A  thorough  crisis  means  therefore  ^  complete  deadlock.  No
more  striking  proof  of  this  could  be  found  than  the  actual
course  of  events  in  London  during  the  last  days  of  July  and  the
first  days  in  August,  1914.


LOMBARD  STREET  IN  WAR  43

II

The  present  crisis  has  come  on  the  top  of  a  long  period  of
unrest  and  depression,  unrest  due  to  the  Balkan  wars,  rumours
of  greater  wars,  tension  in  Europe,  revolution  in  Mexico,
depression  due  to  overtrading  in  Canada,  the  Argentine,  Brazil
and  other  new  countries.  All  this  had  seriously  weakened
some  financial  centres  and  especially  Paris,  though,  on  the
other  hand,  it  had  had  its  good  side  in  reducing  speculation  to
a  minimum.  On  the  top  of  all  this  has  come  the  staggering
blow  of  the  Austrian  ultimatum  to  Servia  and  its  tremendous
consequences.

Such  a  blow  the  modern  international  system  of  finance
is  quite  incapable  of  withstanding.  You  can  invent  no  system
of  credit  delicate  and  intricate  enough  for  the  world  to-day
which  can  possibly  work  in  a  war  of  first-class  importance  as
well  as  in  peace.  The  consequences  were  immediate.  In
a  few  days  practically  every  Stock  Exchange  and  Bourse  in
the  world  was  closed  ;  the  whole  international  money  market
was  paralysed,  and  with  it  the  world's  foreign  trade  ;  it  was
impossible  to  remit  money  from  one  country  to  another  ;  the
Foreign  Exchanges  reached  unprecedented  figures  ;  gold,  the
last  form  of  payment  possible,  could  not  be  shipped  for  fear
of  capture,  and  the  assets  of  the  banks  in  the  form  of  loans  to
the  Stock  Exchange  and  the  Money  Market  and  of  holdings  of
bills  were  completely  immobilized  ;  depositors  began  to  show
signs  of  withdrawing  their  deposits  and  of  hoarding  gold  ;
and  currency  began  to  grow  scarce.  Fortunately,  in  England
at  any  rate  the  public  remained  quite  calm  ;  immediate  and
drastic  remedial  measures  have  been  taken,  and  though  the
City  has  hardly  yet  begun  to  recover  from  the  extreme  weak-
ness of  a  sudden  and  dangerous  illness  into  a  state  of  conva-
lescence, and  though  normal  times  are  many  months  off,  there
is  no  longer  reason  to  fear  any  serious  relapse,  provided
the  operations  on  land  and  sea  are  in  the  end  successful  for
us.

It  has  been  shown  already  that  the  basis  of  the  great  finan-
r  cial  superstructure  in  the  City — as  in  other  financial  centres —
is  formed  by  the  numerous  joint  stock  banks  and  in  particular


44  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

the  great  English  joint  stock  banks  with  their  millions  of
deposits.  It  has  also  been  shown  how  essential  it  is  for  the
banks  to  invest  their  depositors'  money  in  liquid  secm^ities,  and
yet  how  a  really  severe  crisis  "  freezes  up  "  every  kind  of  asset.
It  is  necessary  now  to  examine  in  more  detail  exactly  what
happens.

A  very  large  part  of  their  resources  the  banks  devote  neces-
sarily to  the  development  of  industry  by  loans  to  industrial
companies  of  every  kind.  These  are  the  least  liquid  of  their
assets  and  in  them  the  City  itself  is  not  directly  interested.
But  the  bulk  of  the  remainder  are  utilized  in  the  City  itself,
either  in  the  Money  Market  in  Lombard  Street,  or  in  Throg-
morton  Street  on  the  Stock  Exchange.  In  the  latter  cases  the
loans  are  made  to  stock -brokers  and  jobbers,  and  in  the  former
to  the  discount  houses  and  bill-brokers,  who  are  the  middle-
men of  the  money  market.  For  the  money  market  and  the
discount  market  are  composed  of  the  banks  themselves  the
great  merchant  bankers  or  accepting  houses  and  the  discount
companies  and  bill-brokers,  and  it  is  here  that  the  nerve  centre
of  credit  is  to  be  found,  the  machinery  by  which  the  world's
trade  is  financed.

The  loans  made  by  the  banks  to  the  Stock  Exchange  amount
probably  now  to  about  £50,000,000  or  something  over,  and
in  times  of  speculative  activity  rise  much  higher.  The  loans
at  call  to  the  discount  houses  and  bill-brokers  may  be  esti-
mated at  not  less  than  £100,000,000  on  the  security  of  bills  of
exchange,  and  in  addition  the  banks  have  actually  purchased
and  hold  bills  of  exchange  to  the  value  of  not  far  short  of
£200,000,000.  No  accurate  figures  are  obtainable,  but  it  is
probable  that  these  figures  are  not  far  from  the  truth.  It  is
clear  therefore  to  how  great  an  extent  the  work  of  the  City  is
conducted  by  means  of  the  resources  of  the  joint  stock  banks,
and  how  vitally  affected  they  must  be  by  the  stability  of  bill-
brokers,  stock-brokers,  and  jobbers  to  whom  they  have  lent
money,  and  of  the  great  accepting  houses,  who  are  liable  to
redeem  the  bills  of  exchange  which  the  banks  have  purchased
or  hold  as  security.

It  is  clear,  too,  how  unpleasant  is  the  position  when  all  these
assets,  these  loans  and  bills,  which  the  banks  are  accustomed


LOMBARD  STREET  IN  WAR  46

to  regard  as  only  less  liquid  than  their  cash,  become  "  frozen  "
by  a  financial  crisis  in  the  manner  described  below.  On
the  approach  of  any  such  crisis  the  banks  are  tempted  to  call
up  all  their  loans.  If  they  call  all  their  loans,  the  discount
houses,  the  bill-brokers  and  the  stock-brokers  will  be  ruined,
and,  if  they  are  ruined,  the  joint  stock  banks  would  be  in
little  better  case.  Such  a  policy  therefore,  as  every  crisis  has
shown,  is  not  only  impracticable  but  suicidal.  There  was  some
indication  in  the  recent  crisis  that  some  banks  at  any  rate
did  not  fully  appreciate  this  fact.

The  Stock  Exchanges  of  the  world  were  the  first  to  feel  the
effects  of  the  coming  hurricane.  As  soon  as  the  Austrian
ultimatum  was  delivered,  prices  fell  heavily  on  every  Bourse
on  the  Continent  and  in  London  and  New  York.  As  the
crisis  developed,  there  came  from  the  Continent  an  avalanche
of  sales  of  American  and  international  securities  in  the  two
latter  markets.  Quickly  every  Bourse  on  the  Continent,
though  its  doors  may  have  not  been  actually  closed,  practi-
cally ceased  working.  London  and  New  York  were  the  only
markets  in  which  sales  could  still  be  freely  made.  Prices
fell  more  and  more  rapidly,  and,  though  London  played  its
part  manfully,  the  growing  acuteness  of  the  crisis  brought  the
inevitable  sequel.  For  the  first  time  in  its  history  the  London
Stock  Exchange  closed  its  doors.  New  York  followed  suit  the
same  day.  Only  in  this  way  was  universal  ruin  on  the  Stock
Exchanges  averted.  Unless  it  is  checked  at  its  outset,  a  crisis
of  this  character  gathers  speed  and  momentum,  just  as  cer-
tainly as  a  steam  engine  let  loose  down  a  steep  hill.  In  an
ordinary  crisis  the  trouble  can  soon  be  diagnosed,  localized  and
dealt  with,  but  an  Armageddon  is  unfortunately  not  a  local
trouble.

It  has  been  stated  already  that  the  work  of  the  Stock
Exchange  is  carried  on  largely  on  money  borrowed  from  the
bank  to  an  extent,  at  this  moment,  of  probably  not  less  than
£50,000,000.  Such  loans  are  perfectly  legitimate.  If  there
is  to  be  a  free  market  in  stocks,  jobbers  must  carry  a  "  book."
They  cannot  do  this  with  their  own  capital.  Accordingly  they
borrow  from  the  banks.  Furthermore,  brokers  and  others
borrow  money  against  good  securities,  which  they  may  be


46  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

carrying  for  their  clients.  In  times  of  rising  markets,  too,
a  great  deal  of  money  is  employed  to  finance  speculative
accounts.  All  these  loans  are  made  against  good  market-
able securities  "  on  margin."  Suppose,  for  instance,  that  a
man  has  £100,000  of  Consols.  If  the  market  quotation  for
Consols  were  75,  these  Consols  would  be  worth  £75,000.  The
owner  wishes  to  raise  a  loan  on  them.  A  bank  will  require,
say  for  the  sake  of  example,  10  per  cent  margin,  which  is  the
usual  margin  demanded  for  Stock  Exchange  loans.  It  will
therefore  only  lend  him  £67,500,  the  margin  being  the  security
required  by  the  bank  against  a  possible  fall  in  value.  If  Consols
were  to  fall,  say,  5  per  cent,  the  borrower  would  be  required  to
put  up  an  extra  5  per  cent  of  security  to  keep  the  "  margin  "
of  10  per  cent  intact.  It  is  clear,  therefore,  that  with  every
fall  in  values  on  the  Stock  Exchange,  the  borrowers,  i.e.,  the
brokers  and  jobbers,  must  find  more  "  margin."  This  prac-
tice is  universal  in  the  case  of  all  Stock  Exchange  loans,  and
accordingly  a  general  fall  in  prices  means  that  an  enormous
sum  in  margins  must  be  provided.  If  Stock  Exchange  loans
were  to  amount  to  £50,000,000  and  there  was  an  all  round
10  per  cent  fall,  £5,000,000  more  margin  would  be  required.
Unfortunately,  too,  the  process  is  cumulative.  When  the
borrower's  liquid  resources  are  exhausted,  to  reduce  his  loans
he  must  sell  such  stock  as  he  can,  and  in  so  doing  stiU  further
forces  the  prices  down,  so  that  the  margins  of  all  those  who
have  borrowed  on  that  stock  "  run  off  "  still  more  quickly.
If  he  has  no  longer  anything  to  sell  or  is  at  the  end  of  his
tether,  the  bank  can  then  take  his  securities  and  sell  them  itself
to  repay,  so  far  as  it  can,  its  loan.  These  forced  sales  induce
a  further  fall,  and  so  on.  Moreover,  as  each  broker  fails,  he
involves  in  his  fall  all  those  to  whom  he  is  liable,  and  if  the
process  continues  unchecked,  the  end  is  universal  failure.

In  the  present  crisis  this  process  was  hastened  by  all  the  world
trying  to  sell  in  London  and  by  the  fact  that  brokers  deafing
with  the  Continent  and  with  America  were  unable  to  get  the
remittances  due  to  them  owing  to  the  paralysis  of  the  Foreign
Exchanges  and  the  consequent  impossibility  of  sending  money
from  one  country  to  another.  It  will  be  long  before  normal
dealings  can  again  take  place  on  the  Stock  Exchange.    So


LOMBARD  STREET  IN  WAR  47

long  as  the  Continent  owes  large  sums  that  it  cannot  pay  and  so
long  as  London  would  have  to  meet  the  selling  of  all  the  world,
it  will  be  useless  to  resume  ordinary  business.  Nevertheless,
if  the  war  progresses  satisfactorily,  gradual  steps  will  no  doubt
be  taken  to  resume  business.

By  the  closing  of  the  Stock  Exchange  one  important  class
of  what  are  generally  regarded  as  the  joint  stock  banks'  liquid
securities  was  *'  locked  up."  It  was  impossible  for  them  to
call  in  their  loans  from  brokers  and  jobbers.  The  latter  can
only  pay  if  they  can  liquidate  their  holdings  or  borrow  from
elsewhere.    That  obviously  they  cannot  do.

Meanwhile  a  parallel  process  was  at  work  in  the  Money
Market,  the  smooth  working  of  which  is  still  more  vital  to
the  country  and  the  whole  world.  It  is  hardly  too  much  to
say  that  by  means  of  the  London  Money  Market  the  world's
trade  is  financed.  The  commerce  of  the  world — food-stuffs,
raw  materials,  manufactured  goods,  metals,  coal,  oil,  every
conceivable  requirement  of  civilized  and  uncivilized  man —
is  being  carried  without  ceasing  over  aU  the  oceans  and  seas
from  country  to  country.  The  sellers  of  these  goods  can-
not usually  afford  to  wait  for  the  money  due  to  them  through-
out the  interval,  sometimes  short,  sometimes  long,  between  the
time  when  the  goods  are  bought  from  the  producers  and  shipped
and  the  time  they  reach  their  country  of  destination  and  are
sold  and  paid  for  by  the  consumers.  The  capitalist  accord-
ingly finances  the  goods  during  that  period  through  the  medium
of  bills  of  exchange,  which  run  for  an  average  of  about  three
months.  A  full  explanation  of  what  a  bill  of  exchange  is
would  need  an  elaborate  disquisition.  It  may  suffice  to
liken  it  to  a  cheque,  but  a  cheque  which  will  not  be  paid  for
three  months.  Suppose  A  were  to  give  B,  to  whom  he  owed
money,  a  cheque  payable  three  months  hence.  B  would  take
it  to  the  bank  on  which  it  is  drawn.  The  bank,  instead  of
cashing  it,  would  undertake  to  pay  it  three  months  hence  by
writing  its  name  across  it.  B  could  then  sell  it  to  C,  or  in
other  words  discount  it  with  him  and  obtain  his  money,
because  the  bank's  promise  to  pay  would  be  a  perfectly  good
security  and  C  would  be  sure  of  his  money  at  the  end  of  three
months.    At  the  end  of  that  time,  therefore,  C  takes  it  to  the


48  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

bank  to  be  paid.  A  meanwhile,  during  the  three  months' period,
would  have  provided  the  bank  with  funds  to  meet  the  cheque.
That  is  a  very  rough  comparison  with  the  discount  market.
A  is  the  drawer  of  the  bill,  say  a  shipper  of  grain  from  New
York.  B  is  the  party  to  whom  the  bill  is  remitted,  say  an
American  bank's  agent  in  London,  the  bank  is  the  accepting
house  on  whom  the  bill  is  drawn  and  C  is  the  discount  market.

A  simple  example  from  actual  practice  may  make  the  compari-
son clearer.  Suppose  a  grain  merchant  in  Canada  is  exporting
grain  to  England.  He  naturally  does  not  wish  to  wait  for
payment  until  his  grain  is  sold  in  England  and  the  buyer  can
send  him  his  money  back.  The  period  between  the  time  the
grain  leaves  Canada  and  the  time  it  is  sold  in  England  must  be
bridged  over.  It  is  bridged  over  by  the  biU  of  exchange.
The  buyer  of  the  grain  merchant  "  opens  a  credit  "  with  some
accepting  house  in  England  in  favour  of  the  Canadian  grain
merchant.  The  latter  draws  a  three  months'  bill  on  the
accepting  house  for  the  value  of  the  grain  shipped.  He  sells
the  bill  to  a  Canadian  bank,  who  will  buy  it  at  a  discount —
representing  interest  for  the  three  months.  The  bank  will
buy  the  bill  because  it  has  complete  faith  in  the  ability  of  the
accepting  house  to  meet  the  bill  when  it  falls  due.  The  bank
sends  it  to  its  London  branch,  which  presents  it  to  the  accepting
house  for  its  acceptance.  It  is  then  a  complete  bill,  and  is
either  held  by  the  bank  till  maturity  or  more  probably  sold
to  the  discount  market.  The  discount  market  probably
re -sells  it  to  a  joint  stock  bank.  Meanwhile  the  grain  is  shipped
to  England,  sold,  and  the  proceeds  paid  over  to  the  accepting
house,  so  as  to  provide  the  means  to  meet  the  bill  on  maturity.

London  is  by  far  the  most  important  biU  market  of  the  world.
The  world  pays  and  is  paid  its  debts  in  London.  London  is
the  great  mercantile  clearing  house.  It  may  be  that  hides
and  rabbit  skins  are  being  sold  from  Australia  to  New  York,  or
coffee  from  Brazil  to  Hamburg,  or  eggs  and  butter  from  Siberia
to  London,  or  herrings  from  Aberdeen  to  Russia,  or  machinery
from  England  to  South  America,  or  cotton  goods  from  Lan-
cashire to  India  and  Australia.  The  buyers  and  sellers  settle
up  their  transaction  in  London.  It  is  no  good  an  American
sending  American  bank-notes  to  his  creditor  in  Australia,  or  an


LOMBARD  STREET  IN  WAR  49

Indian  sending  rupees  to  Manchester.  Some  international
currency  is  needed,  and  after  gold,  by  far  the  most  common
form  is  the  bill  on  London  bought  and  sold  through  the  medium
of  the  Foreign  Exchanges.  This  great  trade  in  bills  is  carried
on  by  means  of  the  capital,  credit  and  resources  of  the  merchant
bankers,  discount  houses  and  the  great  banks  of  London.  It
is  estimated  that  at  any  one  time  there  are  probably  in  the
market  upwards  of  £300,000,000  of  bills  for  the  account  of
nearly  every  country  in  the  world.  This  is  the  sum  then  that
is  being  lent  by  London  through  the  bill  market  at  any  one
time.  A  very  large  portion  of  it,  no  doubt  the  larger,  is  provided
to  finance  the  trade  of  Great  Britain  and  the  British  Empire
itself.  But  in  addition  to  that,  an  enormous  sum  is  lent  to
other  countries,  and  particularly  to  Germany  and  the  United
States.  It  is  to  enjoy  the  unparalleled  resources  of  the  London
market  that  all  the  leading  banks  in  the  world  have  branches
in  the  City,  whether  they  be  French,  German,  Austrian,  Ameri-
can, South  American,  Canadian,  Australasian,  South  African,
Russian,  Chinese,  or  Japanese.

The  stream  of  bills  from  birth  to  death,  through  their  brief
life  of  drawing,  acceptance,  discount  and  redemption,  is  a
never-ending  procession.  This  great  mass  of  bills  represents
the  machinery  by  which  the  commercial  countries  of  the
world  clear  their  debts  to  one  another.  If  the  estimate  of
£300,000,000  bills  out  at  a  time  is  taken  as  correct,  then,  within
the  short  period  of  about  three  months,  money  to  redeem  that
whole  sum  must  be  provided  by  those  who  have  "  accepted  "
these  bills  and,  by  so  doing,  undertaken  to  meet  them  at
maturity.  The  "  acceptors  "  are  in  the  main  the  large  private
merchant  bankers,  and  in  a  lesser  degree  the  banks  themselves.
Obviously  they  do  not  find  this  great  sum  only  out  of  their
own  resources.  They  can  meet  it,  because  those  whose  under-
takings, of  whatever  nature  they  may  be  and  in  whatever
part  of  the  world  they  may  be  carried  on,  have  been  financed
by  these  bills,  remit  the  money  to  redeem  the  bills  at  their
maturity.  In  the  case  of  true  commercial  bills,  for  instance,
the  money  will  be  provided  automatically  by  the  sale  of  the
goods,  whether  it  is  grain  from  Canada,  cotton  from  India
or  America,  rubber  from  Brazil  and  so  forth.    There  is  thus


50  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

a  continual  process  by  which  enormous  sums  of  money  are
lent  by  London  to  the  world  by  means  of  bills  drawn  on  London,
and  enormous  sums  remitted  to  London  to  meet  those  bills  as
they  fall  due.  First  -class  English  bills  are  considered  throughout
the  world  as  security  of  the  finest  and  most  liquid  type.  They
are  held  in  large  amounts  by  many  continental  banks,  because
by  merely  remitting  them  to  London  for  sale  they  can  always
buy  gold  with  them  ;  they  form  the  second  line  of  defence,
after  their  actual  cash,  in  the  assets  of  the  great  British  joint
stock  banks.  They  are  liquid  because  they  are  so  short  a
security  and  secured  in  great  measure  on  some  staple  com-
modity for  which  there  is  always  a  market.

This  vast  and  delicate  machinery  of  credit  works  wonder-
fully smoothly  in  normal  times.  But,  if  it  is  to  work  smoothly,
the  stream  of  remittances  must  continue  to  flow  without  check,
and  the  joint  stock  banks  must  continue  to  purchase  the  bills
as  they  come  forward.  A  sudden  stoppage,  a  sudden  blow  to
credit  has  the  same  effect  on  the  discount  market  as  the  cutting
of  a  main  cable  in  a  great  electric  power  system.  The  whole
system  comes  to  a  stop.  It  required  only  two  or  three  days,
from  July  28  to  July  31,  to  paralyse  the  market  completely.

It  has  already  been  stated  that  the  whole  monetary  machine
rests  at  bottom  on  the  great  banking  resources  of  London,
supplied  by  the  millions  of  depositors.  It  is  because  the
joint  stock  banks  have  deposits  of  £1,000,000,000  that  they
can  hold  so,  many  millions  of  biUs  and  lend  so  many  millions
more  on  the  security  of  bills.  Every  day  large  quan-
tities of  bills  are  remitted  from  abroad  by  banks,  merchants
and  financial  agencies  of  aU  kinds  to  their  correspondents  and
agents  in  London,  nearly  all  of  which,  in  one  way  or  another,
find  their  way  eventually  to  the  portfolios  of  the  banks.  It
is  clear,  then,  that  if  the  banks  refuse  to  continue  buying  bills,
the  market  must  very  quickly  become  disorganized,  just  as  to
throw  a  dam  across  a  river  must  flood  the  country  above  it.
Yet  on  the  first  sign  of  serious  political  trouble  the  joint  stock
banks  naturally  think  of  themselves.  Bills  may  be  very  good
security.  But  they  are  not  as  good  as  cash,  when  your  deposi-
tors are  clamouring  for  their  balances.  Accordingly  the  banks
try  immediately  to  make  their  assets  as  liquid  as  possible.


LOMBARD  STREET  IN  WAR  51

They  become  chary  of  buying  any  more  bills  ;  and  at  the  same
time  they  try  to  call  in  their  loans  from  the  discount  houses
and  bill-brokers.  These  latter  are  at  once  placed  in  a  most
unhappy  position.  They  are  middlemen,  who  hold  enormous
amounts  of  bills,  partly  on  their  own  capital,  but  mainly  on
money  borrowed  from  the  banks  and  from  financial  houses.
They  can  only  repay  their  loans  by  selling  their  bills.  If  the
banks  refuse  to  buy  their  bills,  and  insist  on  calling  their  loans,
they  cannot  but  be  ground  between  the  upper  and  nether  mill-
stone. Their  sole  resource  then  is  the  Bank  of  England,  which
must  in  any  crisis  continue  to  discount  bills  freely  if  the
position  is  to  be  relieved.  But  since  the  Bank  usually  refuses
all  but  quite  short-dated  bills,  and  rejects  many  bills  freely
dealt  in  on  the  market,  and  since  in  any  case  they  must  suffer
heavy  loss  by  the  great  rise  in  the  rate  of  discount,  an  intense
crisis,  in  which  the  bill-broker's  loans  are  called  from  them
from  every  side  at  once,  may  still  ruin  them.  If  they  fail,
they  must  spread  further  disaster  round  them,  just  as  in  the
case  of  serious  failures  on  the  Stock  Exchange.

It  was  about  July  28  that  the  difficulties  in  the  discount  mar-
ket began.  The  heavy  falls  in  prices  on  all  Stock  Exchanges,
the  complete  disorganization  of  the  Foreign  Exchanges,  and  the
resulting  difficulty  of  sending  any  money  from  one  country  to
another  heralded  the  approach  of  a  serious  crisis.  The  banks
no  longer  discounted  bills,  and  began  calling  in  their  loans.
The  discount  market  was  forced  to  go  to  the  Bank  of  England,
which  discounted  bills  freely  on  this  and  the  following  day,
discounting  and  lending  about  £14,000,000  in  two  days.  On
the  following  day,  July  29,  matters  grew  worse.  Every  one
throughout  the  world  was  obviously  trying  to  liquidate  his
position.  The  Paris  Exchange  fell  to  an  unprecedentedly
low  figure,  showing  that  France  was  drawing  as  much  money
from  London  as  possible  ;  the  New  York  Exchange  was  enor-
mously high  in  consequence  of  the  necessity  of  New  York
remitting  the  very  large  sums  of  money  owed  by  the  United
States  to  Europe  as  a  result  of  the  great  sales  of  American
securities  ;  the  Berlin  rate,  too,  was  very  high,  since  Germany
is  a  large  debtor  nation,  particularly  to  us,  and  we  were  no
doubt  doing  our  best  to  get  all  the  money  we  could  from  her,


52  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

while  no  doubt  she  was  withdrawing  any  balances  she  had  in
London.  The  exchanges,  in  fact,  went  to  such  figures  that  all
quotations  were  nominal  and  no  further  remittances  from  one
country  to  another  were  possible.  On  July  31  the  Bank  rate
was  increased  from  3  per  cent  to  4  per  cent ;  gold  was  at  a
premium  in  Paris,  where  the  necessity  of  a  moratorium  was
already  recognized ;  the  Bank  of  England  return  showed
that  the  reserve  in  proportion  to  liabilities  had  fallen  from  52  *  4
per  cent  to  40  per  cent.  What  had  added  to  the  difficulties  of
London  in  these  last  days  had  been  the  heavy  demand  from
foreign  countries  on  the  balances  they  had  in  London.  Before
absolute  paralysis  was  reached,  no  doubt  a  great  deal  of  money
was  withdrawn.

The  breakdown  of  the  machinery  of  the  Foreign  Exchanges
brought  with  it  a  new  feature  which  would  have  not  accom-
panied any  purely  internal  crisis,  and  which  affected  England
to  a  far  greater  extent  than  any  other  country,  for  the  simple
reason  that  England  is  the  greatest  creditor  nation.  It  may
be  unpleasant  for  a  debtor  to  be  unable  to  pay  his  debts  ;
it  is  much  more  unpleasant  for  a  creditor  not  to  get  them
paid,  especially  if  he  is  a  man  in  a  very  large  way  of  business
with  heavy  liabilities  which  he  must  meet  from  day  to  day.
The  whole  world  owes  very  large  sums  to  London.  They  can-
not now  pay  them  ;  Germany  and  Austria  must  wait  until  the
war  is  over,  and  the  rest  of  the  world  at  any  rate  until  the
exchanges  become  normal  and  until  the  moratoria  declared  in
most  of  the  countries  of  the  world  are  at  an  end.  The  accept-
ing houses,  therefore,  who  have  accepted  these  hundreds  of
millions  of  bills  on  the  condition  of  punctual  remittances  to
cover  them  are  left  meanwhile  to  pay  them  out  of  their  own
resources.  Consider  what  this  means.  On  the  estimate  of
£300,000,000  of  bills  falling  due  over  a  period  of  three  months,
nearly  £4,000,000  will  fall  due  to  be  paid  every  weekday  during
that  period.  Of  course  not  nearly  all  this  sum  will  be  for
account  of  foreign  countries,  because  a  considerable  part  will
be  in  respect  of  goods  sold  to  this  country.  Nevertheless,
the  universal  dislocation  of  credit  will  affect  the  great  bulk
of  it.  It  is  clear  that  even  the  strongest  accepting  houses  would
find  it  difficult  to  continue  to  meet  for  many  weeks  out  of  their


LOMBARD  STREET  IN  WAR  63

own  resources  these  enormous  sums.  The  failure  of  a  single
large  accepting  house  is  sufficient  in  more  normal  times  to  create
a  first-class  crisis — witness  the  Baring  crisis  of  1890.  If  one
great  accepting  house  with  millions  of  acceptances  were  allowed
to  go,  it  would  bring  down  others,  accepting  houses,  discount
houses,  and  even  banks,  in  its  train.

The  position  of  the  accepting  houses  is  not  due  to  their  own
fault  any  more  than  it  is  the  fault  of  the  banks  that  they  are
never  in  a  position  to  pay  off  all  their  depositors  at  once  and
that  their  inability  to  do  so  must  become  more  pronounced
the  more  severe  the  crisis.  You  cannot  possibly  conduct
the  credit  business  of  the  world  in  peace  in  such  a  way  that  it
can  withstand  a  universal  war.  Either  the  financing  of  the
world's  trade  is  to  be  done  through  London  or  not.  If  it  is,
then  it  entails  responsibilities  which  in  time  of  peace,  owing  to
the  essential  soundness  of  the  business  are  negligible,  but
which  must  become  very  serious  when  circumstances  make
it  impossible  for  foreign  debtors  to  meet  their  obligations.
It  does  not  matter  who  does  the  business.  The  result  must  be
the  same  whether  the  acceptance  business  is  done  by  private
houses  or  joint  stock  banks.  If  it  is  not  done  at  all,  London  will
surrender  its  position  as  the  financial  centre  of  the  world.  If
it  is  done,  whether  by  accepting  houses  or  banks,  it  involves
in  each  case  the  same  obligations.

By  the  evening  of  July  30  it  was  clear  to  those  who  were  aware
of  the  position  that,  war  or  no  war,  the  crisis  was  now  too  far
gone  to  be  remedied  except  by  means  of  the  most  drastic
measures.

The  next  day,  July  31,  the  day  on  which  war  between  Ger-
many and  Russia  became  almost  a  certainty,  was  a  dramatic
one  for  the  City.  The  London  and  New  York  Stock  Exchanges
closed.  Very  large  demands  were  made  on  the  Bank  of  Eng-
land for  loans  and  discounts,  the  Bank  being  now  the  only
refuge  which  the  discount  market  had  from  ruin.  The  Bank
rate  was  doubled  from  4  per  cent  to  8  per  cent.  Moreover,  on
this  day  the  crisis,  which  had  hitherto  been  a  City  crisis,
threatened  to  become  general.  There  was  a  large  demand  by
the  public  for  gold  at  the  joint  stock  banks  and  the  Bank  of
England.    Currency  quickly  showed  signs  of  becoming  scarce,


54  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

more  through  apprehension  than  through  any  real  want.  It
appeared  as  if  the  suspension  of  the  Bank  Act,  by  means  of
which  an  indefinite  increase  in  the  issue  of  bank-notes  would
be  possible,  might  become  inevitable.

On  August  1,  the  political  situation  became  hopeless  ;  the
Bank  rate  was  raised  from  8  per  cent  to  10  per  cent,  and
even  at  this  rate,  representing  an  extremely  heavy  loss  to  all
discounters,  an  enormous  business  in  loans  and  discounts  was
done  at  the  Bank  of  England.  A  large  amount  of  gold  was
again  withdrawn.  The  rates  of  all  the  great  State  banks  on  the
Continent  were  raised.  A  general  moratorium  was  declared
in  France,  postponing  the  necessity  for  the  payments  of  debts
of  every  kind,  and  with  the  most  drastic  provisions  for  limiting
the  demands  of  depositors  on  their  deposits.

Ill

At  the  close  therefore  of  this  day,  August  1,  before  a  single
shot  had  been  fired,  and  before  any  destruction  of  wealth,  the
whole  world-fabric  of  credit  had  dissolved.  The  Stock  Ex-
change was  closed  ;  the  discount  market  dead  ;  the  accepting
houses  unable  to  obtain  any  remittances  as  cover  for  bills
falling  due  ;  the  liquid  assets  of  the  joint  stock  banks,  i.e.,
their  Stock  Exchange  and  Money  Market  loans,  and  their  very
large  holdings  of  bills  immobilized  at  the  moment  when  their
depositors  were  becoming  restive  ;  commerce  at  a  standstill
throughout  the  world  ;  currency  scarce  ;  the  Bank  of  England's
resources  highly  strained.  Such  was  the  effect  of  a  universal
destruction  of  confidence.  The  position  was  one  which  needed
immediate  and  drastic  measures.  It  was  impossible  to  say
whether  another  day  or  two  of  such  unrelieved  tension  might
not  produce  very  serious  failures,  a  contingency  it  was  neces-
sary to  avoid  at  all  costs.

Fortunately  the  next  day  was  a  Sunday,  and  the  day  after
that  a  Bank  Holiday,  which  it  was  wisely  decided  to  extend
for  three  more  days.  This  gave  nearly  a  clear  week  for  consulta-
tion between  the  Government  and  the  City  as  to  the  measures
to  be  taken  to  overcome  the  crisis  and  start  the  machinery
again  at  work.    The  first  measures  essential  in  order  to  avoid


LOMBARD  STREET  IN  WAR  66

still  greater  trouble  were  to  provide  a  supply  of  currency
ample  for  all  the  demands  of  depositors,  in  order  to  calm
the  public  fears,  and  forestall  the  hoarding  of  gold,  and  to
deal  with  the  situation  which  had  arisen  owing  to  the  collapse
of  credit  and  the  impossibility  of  obtaining  remittances  from
abroad.  To  meet  the  first  difficulty  the  Government  agreed
to  provide  the  banks  with  an  ample  supply  of  £1  and  IO5.
notes,  to  the  extent  of  20  per  cent  of  their  deposits,  i.e.,  up  to
a  maximum  of  about  £200,000,000,  charging  them  5  per  cent
interest.  These  notes  are  legal  tender  ;  they  have  at  the  back
of  them  the  whole  credit  of  the  British  nation,  and,  presumably
they  are  convertible  into  gold  at  the  Bank  of  England.  But
they  are  not  Bank  of  England  notes,  and  it  is  to  be  supposed
they  will  be  withdrawn  and  replaced  by  bank-notes  when  the
war  is  over.  To  meet  the  second  difficulty  the  Government
declared  a  moratorium,  or  postponement  of  debts  for  one
month,  applicable  at  first  to  bills  of  exchange,  and  two  days
later  made  more  general  to  cover  all  payments  and  contracts
with  certain  specified  exceptions.  All  those,  therefore,  who
found  themselves  unable  to  redeem  their  obligations  through  the
general  suspension  of  credit,  were  given  a  breathing  space,  and
all  bills  of  exchange  in  the  discount  market  accepted  previous
to  August  4  were  renewed  for  one  month.  The  suspension  of
the  Bank  Act,  which  would  enable  the  Bank  of  England  to
issue  freely  bank-notes  without  an  equivalent  sum  in  gold  at
their  back,  was  not  actually  proclaimed.  It  was  decided  in-
stead to  issue  new  currency  notes,  as  stated  above,  which  are
not  Bank  of  England  notes  but  a  direct  obligation  of  the
Government.  Since,  however,  these  notes  are  presumably
convertible  into  gold,  and  since  the  only  gold  from  which  they
can  be  met  is  the  reserve  of  the  Bank  of  England,  the  trans-
action is  in  essence  equivalent  to  a  suspension  of  the  Bank
Act.

The  Bank  return  of  August  5  showed  that  the  Bank  had
lost  a  good  deal  of  gold  and  its  reserve  in  proportion  to  liabili-
ties had  fallen  from  40  per  cent  to  14  per  cent.  Since  that  date
the  situation  has  improved,  and  on  August  26  the  Bank  held
nearly  £16,000,000  more  gold  than  on  August  5,  the  result
largely  of  fresh  importations,  but  partly  also  of  gold  coming


56  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

back  from  the  country.  In  fact  the  amount  held  was  actually
higher  than  at  this  time  last  year.  So  long,  therefore,  as  the
public  show  ordinary  calmness,  there  should  be  no  danger  to  the
gold  reserve.  Unlike  most  other  countries  England  has  not
yet  found  it  necessary  to  suspend  specie  payments.  There  is
no  reason,  if  things  go  well,  why  she  should.  The  export  of
gold  is  not  prohibited,  though  no  doubt  if  the  Bank  found
that  there  was  any  likelihood  of  large  sums  being  exported,
by  which  its  position  would  be  weakened,  it  would  take  pre-
cautionary measures.

It  was  found  on  Friday,  August  7,  when  the  City  resumed
business,  that  these  measures,  aided  by  the  liberal  facilities
freely  granted  by  the  Bank  of  England,  were  sufficient  to  calm
public  apprehensions.  There  was  no  run  on  the  banks  ;  there
was  currency  in  the  plenty,  and  the  moratorium  safe-guarded,
anyhow  temporarily,  the  position  of  every  one.  The  discount
market  was  eased  for  the  time  being  by  being  able  to  make
loans  or  discounts  at  the  Bank  of  England  ;  the  accepting
houses  were  relieved  from  the  immediate  necessity  of  meeting
all  bills  falling  due,  and  the  banks  had  been  granted  ample
facilities  by  the  Government  in  the  way  of  currency.  It  was
clear,  however,  that,  while  the  moratorium  had  acted  like  a
dose  of  morphia  and  deadened  the  City's  agitation,  some
further  measures  were  needed  to  galvanize  it  into  any  kind  of
life.  The  dead- weight  of  the  enormous  mass  of  bills,  which
ten  days  before  had  been  looked  on  as  gilt-edged  security,  hung
like  a  millstone  round  the  City's  neck.  Under  the  moratorium
the  joint  stock  banks  were  not  getting  their  holdings  of  bills
liquidated  and,  since  those  they  already  held  were  not  being
paid,  they  would  buy  no  fresh  ones  ;  the  discount  houses
could  not  work  ;  they  had  very  heavy  liabilities  in  respect  of
the  bills  they  held  and  of  their  endorsement  on  aU  bills  they  had
sold  to  the  banks,  or  to  the  Bank  of  England,  and  they  were  not
willing  to  add  to  them  by  any  more  purchases  ;  the  accep-
tance business  had  come  practically  to  a  dead  stop.  Yet,
if  the  whole  bill-machinery  of  London  were  to  stop,  British
trade,  to  say  nothing  of  that  of  other  countries,  could  not  be
financed.  Grain  was  piling  up  in  New  York.  Commerce  was
at  a  standstill.    It  was  absolutely  essential  to  resuscitate  this


LOMBARD  STREET  IN  WAR  67

international  currency  in  order  to  finance  England's  exports
and  imports  and  to  enable  America,  the  Dominions  and  the
East  to  resume  dealings  with  this  country.

In  order  to  relieve  the  situation,  the  Government  took  a
drastic  step.  It  authorized  the  Bank  of  England  to  announce
that  the  Bank  would  discount  under  the  guarantee  of  the
Government  all  bills  of  exchange  of  satisfactory  quality  ac-
cepted before  August  4,  the  holders  of  the  bills  being  relieved
of  liability.  In  other  words,  any  institution,  bank,  or  dis-
count house  which  held  any  bills  accepted  before  August  4,  could
sell  them  at  once  to  the  Bank  of  England  and  be  free  of  all  fur-
ther liability  on  them.  The  British  Government  guaranteed
at  one  stroke  to  the  holders  all  the  bills  in  the  market  amount-
ing, if  the  usual  estimates  are  correct,  to  over  £300,000,000.  The
relief  to  the  discount  houses  and  the  banks  was  enormous.  On
the  other  hand,  the  liability  of  the  accepting  houses  remains
as  before.  This  step  was  intended  to  enable  the  banks  and
the  discount  market  to  resume  transactions  at  any  rate  in
mercantile  bills  of  exchange,  drawn  against  actual  produce
shipped  to  this  country  and  to  enable  them  to  meet  all  legiti-
mate requirements  of  the  country  by  providing  them  with
large  credit  balances  at  the  Bank  of  England.  It  is  for  them
now  to  live  up  to  their  part  of  the  bargain.  It  is  impossible  to
say  what  is  the  real  extent  of  the  liability  the  Government
has  assumed.  That  depends  largely  on  the  extent  and  the
result  of  the  war.  The  vast  proportion  of  bills  will  eventually
be  met.  But  that  some  debtors  on  the  Continent  will  be
unable  to  meet  their  engagements  it  is  hardly  possible  to  doubt.
The  Bank  of  England  has  further  undertaken,  when  the  mora-
torium ends,  not  to  press  for  the  immediate  payment  of  all
pre -moratorium  bills  as  they  fall  due,  but  to  continue  to  dis-
count them  indefinitely  until  further  notice  at  2  per  cent  above
Bank  rate.  This  is  a  heavy  charge,  but  the  arrangement  gives
the  accepting  houses  time  to  liquidate  gradually  their  obliga-
tions as  their  debtors  redeem  their  liabilities.

The  terms  of  the  Government's  guarantee  of  the  bills  now
in  the  market  were  not  clear  in  all  their  details  and  many
important  and  difficult  questions  had  to  be  settled  from  day  to
day  as  they  arose.     The  question,  for  instance,  whether  only


58  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

the  holder  of  a  bill  would  be  relieved  of  all  liability  or  whether
logically  all  English  endorsers  would  not  be  released  was  a  mat-
ter of  great  importance  to  the  discount  market.  It  appears
now  to  have  been  settled  by  the  further  measures  of  the  Govern-
ment referred  to  below.  But  the  enormous  value  of  the  privi-
lege granted  by  the  Government  is  seen  by  the  fact  that  the
Bank  of  England  was  regularly  besieged  every  morning  for
some  days  by  those  who  wished  to  discount  their  bills.  Nor
is  this  surprising  in  view  of  the  prodigious  mass  of  bills  to  be
dealt  with.  The  "  other  deposits  "  of  the  Bank  of  England,
which  only  a  month  ago  totalled  only  £42,000,000,  had  by
September  2  reached  nearly  £134,000,000,  a  wholly  unprece-
dented figure.  There  seems  no  reason  why  they  should  not
go  to  £200,000,000  and  over.  This  figure  is  the  measure  of
the  assistance  which  the  central  Bank  has  given  to  the  City  and
also  of  the  floating  supplies  of  money  and  credit  now  in  the
market.  The  bills  which  the  banks  held  were,  as  has  already
been  explained,  "  frozen ''  during  the  crisis.  By  the  action
of  Government  and  by  the  thawing  influence  of  British  credit,
they  can  now  be  liquidated  by  the  simple  process  of  taking
them  to  the  bank  and  discounting  them.  The  bank  so  doing
receives  a  corresponding  credit  in  the  bank's  books,  which  it
can  utilize  in  any  way  it  likes.  It  is  clear,  therefore,  that  there
are  now  large  floating  supplies  of  bank  credits — and  that  there
will  be  more — which  should  enable  the  banking  community
to  deal  with  every  legitimate  demand  for  financial  aid.

Furthermore,  these  supplies  of  money  will  be  invaluable
for  the  large  loans  which  the  Government  must  make.  It
is  difficult  at  present  to  utilize  large  sums  of  money  profit-
ably, and  Treasury  bills  afford  an  admirable  means  of  so
doing.  One  can  observe,  therefore,  the  curious  process  by
which  the  Government  lends  its  credit  to  unlock  the
wealth  belonging  to  the  banks,  which  the  crisis  has  tied  up,
and  the  banks  lend  back  that  wealth,  when  it  has  been
liquidated,  to  the  Government.*  Such  is  the  subtle,  yet
all-powerful  effect  of  that  credit,  which  not  even  this  great
war    has    shaken,    the    credit   of    the   British   Government.

*  This  of  course  was  the  commencement  of  the  process  of  "  in-
flation,"


LOMBABD  STREET  IN  WAR  59

Recently  the  Government  have  taken  another  important  step,
designed  to  relieve  still  further  the  money  market.  The  holders
of  bills  having  been  relieved  of  liability,  the  Bank  of  England
now  undertakes  to  provide  the  acceptors  with  funds  necessary
to  pay  all  bills  accepted  before  August  4,  by  this  means  releas-
ing all  drawers  and  endorsers  of  their  liabilities  as  parties  to
the  bills.  The  acceptors  must,  of  course,  repay  the  Bank
the  amounts  so  advanced  as  soon  as  possible,  but  repayment
will  not  be  claimed  until  a  year  after  the  close  of  the  war,
and  till  then  the  Bank's  claim  will  rank  after  all  trans-
actions subsequent  to  the  moratorium.  The  Bank  will  charge
interest  at  2  per  cent  above  Bank  rate.  Furthermore,  it  is
stated  that  the  joint  stock  banks,  with  the  co-operation,  if
necessary,  of  the  Government  and  the  Bank  of  England,
will,  under  certain  conditions,  provide  their  clients  with
amounts  necessary  to  pay  their  acceptances  at  maturity,
where  the  funds  have  not  been  provided  by  the  acceptors'
clients.  The  upshot  of  the  above  provisions  is  that  the  capital
of  the  accepting  houses  remains  intact  for  the  purposes  of
new  business  until  the  end  of  the  period  specified  by  the  Bank
and  until  therefore  the  foreign  clients  of  those  houses  have
had  an  opportunity  of  meeting  their  liabilities.  Owing  to  this
fact  new  business  will  certainly  be  stimulated.  Discount  houses
and  banks  will  have  no  hesitation  in  buying  new  bills  and  so
facilitating  trade,  while  on  the  other  hand  the  accepting
houses  whose  liabilities  are  merely  postponed  and  not  annulled
will  only  enter  upon  fresh  business  of  a  most  legitimate  kind.
It  is  certain,  therefore,  that  the  demand  for  new  bills  will  be
greater  than  the  supply,  and  in  consequence  discount  rates  are
likely  to  fall  to  a  very  low  figure.

While  these  measures  of  the  Government  are  satisfactory,
it  may  perhaps  be  suggested  that  the  Chancellor  would  do
well  not  to  hurry  matters  too  much  or  to  think  that  every-
thing can  be  mended  at  once  by  granting  facilities  all  round
to  every  one.  There  is  a  great  deal  of  wreckage  which  can
only  be  gradually  removed.  The  healing  process  of  time  is  as
essential  to  the  recovery  of  financial  health  as  the  employ-
ment of  patent  medicines,  effective  though  these  latter  may
be-


60  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

It  is  unnecessary  to  enlarge  upon  the  vital  influence  of  the
Bank  of  England  aided  by  the  Government,  during  this  crisis.
That  influence  has  been  evident  during  every  financial  crisis.
A  strong  central  bank  is  the  very  pivot  of  our  whole  financial
system.  Without  such  a  reservoir  of  credit,  available  when
every  usual  source  is  completely  dry,  our  banking  and  dis-
count system  would  be  impossible.

Another  problem  had  to  be  dealt  with,  which  seriously
concerned  the  Money  Market.  It  was  pointed  out  in  a  previous
article  that  a  war  between  England  and  Grcrmany  might
necessitate  the  closing  of  the  London  Agencies  of  the  German
banks.  This  is  what  happened.  The  three  great  German
banks,  the  Deutsche  Bank,  the  Disconto  Gesellschaft  and  the
Dresdner  Bank  have  for  many  years  found  it  necessary  to
keep  branches  in  London,  as  the  world's  financial  centre.
They  do  an  active  business,  especially  in  financing  German
trade  and  accept  largely  biUs  of  exchange,  which  are  then
discounted  in  the  discount  market.  It  is  estimated  that  their
liabilities  on  bills  of  exchange  amount  to  between  £15,000,000
and  £20,000,000.  As  soon  as  war  broke  out,  it  became  high
treason  for  English  firms  to  do  business  with  them.  Their
offices  were  closed  and  it  seemed  doubtful  whether  they  would
be  reopened.  Ultimately  the  Government  consented  to  their
being  reopened  under  the  supervision  of  English  accountants.
They  were  not  to  undertake  new  business,  but  were  to  confine
their  activities  to  liquidating  their  assets  in  this  country  for
the  benefit  of  their  English  creditors.  This  was  a  wise  and
indeed  an  essential  step.  The  £15,000,000  to  £20,000,000
of  bills  were  held  in  London  ;  if  the  banks  were  closed  and  could
not  do  anything  to  meet  their  obligations,  it  was  the  English
holders  of  bills  who  were  hurt  and  not  the  German  banks,  who
had  already  had  their  money.  As  it  is,  the  banks'  assets  in
London,  such  as  they  are,  can  be  at  least  utilized  to  pay  off
their  English  creditors  as  far  as  possible,  leaving  the  balance
to  be  settled  after  the  war.

A  further  measure  which  the  Bank  of  England  has  taken
in  order  to  do  something  to  remedy  the  abnormal  condition
of  the  Foreign  Exchanges  which  still  prevents  any  proper
resumption  of  international  trade,  is  to  arrange  for  the  purchase


LOMBARD  STREET  IN  WAR  61

of  gold  deposited  in  Canada  and  South  Africa  with  the  Govern-
ments of  those  countries  to  its  order.  It  will  then  grant  facili-
ties in  London  against  this  gold.  This  measure  will  bo  invalu-
able to  the  South  African  gold  mines.  It  was  hoped  also  that
Now  York  in  particular  would  avail  itself  of  this  arrangement,
but  at  present  the  financial  community  there  shows  the  greatest
reluctance  to  send  any  gold  away  even  so  far  as  Ottawa.  One
of  the  greatest  difficulties  in  the  resumption  of  business  at  the
moment  is  the  abnormal  condition  of  the  New  York  Exchange.
The  United  States  owe  large  sums  to  London  which  they  can
only  pay  either  by  shipping  produce  or  by  sending  gold  either
to  London  or  Ottawa.  They  appear  to  be  holding  back  produce
and  they  refuse  to  ship  gold,  action  which  is  not  far  removed
from  refusing  to  pay  their  debts,  in  fact  to  declaring  a  mora-
torium. Meanwhile  trade  between  the  two  countries  is  very
largely  at  a  standstill.

Notwithstanding  the  above  measures,  supplemented  by  the
Government's  further  action  in  undertaking  80  per  cent  of  the
war  risk  in  marine  insurance,  the  City  is  still  very  far  from
normal.  It  is  like  a  man  whose  nervous  system  has  been
shattered  by  a  great  shock.  Tonics  and  stimulants  may  save
him  from  complete  collapse,  but  real  recovery  is  a  matter
of  months  and  even  years.  The  industrial  and  commercial
worlds  are  still  completely  dislocated  and  the  financial  world
cannot  therefore  be  otherwise.  There  is  no  confidence  anywhere.
All  that  can  be  expected  is  a  gradual  and  slow  recovery.  If
reasonable  success  crowns  our  arms,  that  should  be  a  matter
of  certainty.  The  British  banking  system  is  the  soundest  in
the  world  and  there  can  be  no  sort  of  danger  of  a  collapse,
provided  that  the  public  continue  to  show  the  same  admirable
prudence  and  calmness  that  it  has  shown  hitherto.  What  is
required  of  every  one,  not  only  the  public,  but  the  banks  also,
is  that  they  should  continue  to  act  as  normally  as  possible.
The  public  should  refuse  absolutely  to  hoard  money  or  make
any  exceptional  demands  on  their  banks  ;  the  banks,  on  the
other  hand,  should  freely  comply  with  all  reasonable  requests.
Even  the  suspicion  of  an  opposite  course  is  the  most  certain  way
towards  breeding  an  apprehension,  which  is  the  more  dangerous
the  more  unreasonable  it  is.     The  joint  stock  banks  have


62  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

received  unconditionally  the  most  generous  and  lavish  aid
from  the  Government ;  but  that  aid  was  not  given  them  to
enable  them  to  emerge  from  the  crisis  without  loss.  It  was
given  them  for  the  sole  purpose  that  they  might  be  fit  to  aid
in  every  way  possible  the  country's  trade  and  finance.  Owing  to
the  Government's  measures  they  have  accumulated  and  will
accumulate  huge  credits  at  the  Bank  of  England  and  this
money  they  must  be  ready  to  lend  for  all  legitimate  purposes.
It  has  been  stated  publicly  by  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer
that  while  in  most  cases  their  conduct  has  been  very  reasonable,
in  some  cases  they  have  shown  reluctance  to  fulfil  this  national
duty,  and  he  has  intimated  that  still  other  measures  may  be
necessary.  The  trade  of  the  country  must  be  carried  on.
The  banks  should  discount  freely  commercial  biUs,  which
have  been  drawn  to  finance  it.  Bills  against  produce  imported
into  this  or  other  allied  or  neutral  countries  are  a  perfectly
good  security,  and  it  is  the  obvious  duty  of  the  banks  to  dis-
count them  and  to  aid  the  discount  market  in  carrying  on  its
legitimate  functions.  To  do  otherwise  would  be  to  injure  the
Government  and  the  country.  Since,  too,  the  Stock  Exchange
is  closed,  there  must  be  many  cases  where  individuals  and  firms
must  be  able  to  borrow  against  securities  which  they  cannot
realize.  These  cases,  too,  the  banks  should  treat  with  as
much  liberality  as  possible.

The  general  moratorium  has  lately  been  extended  for
another  month.  The  question  of  its  continued  extension
is  a  difficult  one.  A  limited  moratorium  there  must  be  and
it  must  continue  for  a  long  time,  in  order  to  cover  bills  of
exchange  and  Stock  Exchange  loans  at  any  rate.  But  a
general  moratorium  is  undoubtedly  hampering  to  trade  and
probably  particularly  so  to  the  small  man.  It  is  possible  that,
if  its  sphere  were  limited,  some  relief  might  be  found  by  the
creation  of  a  Government  lending  department,  after  the  German
manner,  whereby  loans  have  been  made  on  all  sorts  of  securities,
whether  personal  or  otherwise,  in  the  form  of  special  paper,
which  has  the  same  status  as  bank-notes.  This  again  would
be  simply  another  means  of  using  the  Government's  credit
to  liquidate  wealth  now  locked  up.

The  question  whether  the  Stock  Exchange  should  or  can


LOMBARD  STREET  IN  WAR  68

be  reopened  is  still  more  difficult.  It  is  hardly  conceivable
that  at  such  a  time  as  this  there  can  yet  be  buyers  of
stocks.  If  there  are  no  buyers  and  only  sellers — and  sellers
from  other  countries  as  well — prices  would  continue  to  fall
with  disastrous  results.  The  position  of  the  banks  with  re-
gard to  their  Stock  Exchange  loans  would  become  still  more
difficult,  and  there  would  undoubtedly  be  many  failures  on
the  Stock  Exchange.  Indeed,  the  process  described  earlier
in  this  article  would  merely  be  resumed.  Moreover,  none
of  those  brokers  who  have  dealings  abroad  would  be  able  to
collect  their  differences  from  their  foreign  clients  or  obtain
any  remittances  from  abroad.  Any  real  opening  of  the
Stock  Exchange  therefore  seems  out  of  the  question  for  the
time  being.

There  have  indeed  been  various  schemes  by  which  the
Government's  aid  is  to  be  invoked  here  also,  but  unfortunately
Stock  Exchange  securities  as  a  whole  are  of  a  different  character
from  bills  of  exchange  and  it  would  be  a  very  different  matter
to  guarantee  all  Stock  Exchange  loans.

In  any  case  it  would  seem  but  common  prudence  to  wait
for  the  first  decisive  results  of  the  war,  both  by  sea  and  land.
If  the  Stock  Exchange  were  open,  and  a  really  serious  reverse
were  to  be  experienced,  the  results  can  be  left  to  the  imagina-
tion. Later,  it  may  be  possible  to  begin  dealing  in  certain
leading  stocks  for  cash  and  it  may  in  any  case  be  necessary  to
open  the  Stock  Exchange  solely  for  the  purpose  of  dealing
in  the  new  war  loans.

Meanwhile  it  remains  for  the  public  and  the  financial  world
as  well  to  remain  calm,  to  carry  on  their  businesses  as  actively
as  circumstances  permit,  and  above  all  to  refrain  from  any
steps  likely  to  lead  to  anything  in  the  shape  of  a  panic.  The
situation  is  not  normal.  It  could  hardly  be  expected  to  be.
The  Bank  of  England,  backed  by  the  Government,  has  enor-
mously increased  its  liabilities  and  therefore  increased  the
power  of  the  other  banks  and  the  public  to  draw  on  its  gold
reserves.  But,  so  long  as  every  one  is  satisfied  as  to  the  sound-
ness of  the  British  Government's  credit,  there  will  be  no  danger
of  the  reserve  being  unduly  depleted.  Gold  is  not  wanted  as
currency.   There  are  plenty  of  bank-notes  and  Treasury  notes


64  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

for  that  purpose.  It  could  only  be  wanted  for  hoarding,  and
any  such  action  should  be  regarded  as  criminally  unpatriotic.
So  long  as  the  risk  of  capture  at  sea  is  not  negligible,  the
rates  of  insurance  are  likely  to  be  prohibitive  for  the  export  of
gold.  If  all  risk  vanishes,  then  gold  is  just  as  likely  to  be
imported  as  exported,  since  the  power  of  attraction  exerted
by  a  high  Bank  rate  would  then  tend  to  recover  some  of  its
normal  strength.

What  the  ultimate  consequences  of  the  war  will  be  it  is
difficult  for  the  imagination  to  grasp.  Much  depends  on  its
duration.  Yet  even  now  it  has,  through  its  universal  effects
on  trade  and  industry,  touched  the  lives  of  every  inhabitant
of  every  civilized  country.  There  is  no  banker,  no  merchant,
no  trader,  no  shopkeeper  in  the  civilized  world  whose  business
has  not  been  affected.  There  are  few  civilized  countries,  in
which  a  moratorium,  or  something  equivalent  to  it,  is  not  now
in  force.  In  the  continental  countries  of  Europe  actually  at
war  industry  is,  to  a  large  extent,  at  a  standstill.  *  The  result
on  these  great  industrial  nations  cannot  but  be  tremendous.
Germany's  oversea  trade  amounts  now  to  £1,029,000,000
per  annum,France's  to  £615,000,000,  Belgium's  to  £326,000,000,
Russia's  to  £275,000,000,  Austria-Hungary's  to  £256,000,000,
and  the  internal  trade  of  every  country  is  greater  than  its
external.

If  we  estimate  roughly  that  14,000,000  men  are  underarms,
that  one  man  can  produce  £100  of  wealth  in  a  year,  we  have
at  once  a  direct  loss  of  £1,400,000,000,  apart  altogether  from
any  indirect  loss  due  to  the  dislocation  of  trade  and  finance  and
the  enormous  number  of  men  thrown  out  of  work  indirectly  by
the  war.

Let  no  country  suppose  that  it  is  going  to  escape  the  effects
of  this  great  cataclysm.  The  United  States,  it  is  true,  may
capture  a  great  deal  of  trade  formerly  done  by  continental
Europe.  England  may  do  the  same,  and,  to  the  extent  that
she  can  do  so,  it  will  undoubtedly  reduce  the  evil  consequences
upon  her  of  the  war.  But  no  country  grows  rich  on  the  poverty
of  other  nations.  It  is  possible  that  after  the  war  there  will
be  a  short  period  of  great  activity  in  making  good  the  actual
necessities  of  industry  and  of  civilized  life.    But  the  purchasing


LOMBARD  STREET  IN  WAR  65

power  of  the  world  will  have  been  very  sensibly  diminished,  and
it  cannot  be  long  before  the  enormous  loss  of  capital  will  make
itself  felt.  There  is  then  likely  to  be  a  prolonged  period  of
very  great  depression.

There  is  only  one  way  by  which  the  wealth  of  the  world  will
be  quickly  replaced  after  the  war  and  that  is  by  work.  It  will
be  absolutely  necessary  that  the  productive  capacity  of  the
individual  should  increase  very  much  compared  to  his  capacity
during  the  last  ten  years,  during  which  it  has  undoubtedly
been  on  the  decline.  The  country  whose  workers  show  the
greatest  capacity  for  productiveness  will  be  the  country  which
will  most  rapidly  recuperate.

Even  now  all  countries,  especially  new  countries,  wiU  have
to  change  their  mode  of  living.  Take  Canada  as  an  example.
Canada's  annual  balance  of  trade  is  probably  about  £60,000,000
against  her  :  £30,000,000  being  the  excess  of  her  trade  imports
over  her  trade  exports  and  the  remaining  £30,000,000  represent-
ing her  annual  payment  on  money  borrowed.  She  has  balanced
her  account  hitherto  by  borrowing  very  large  sums  of  money.
Now  she  will  be  unable  to  do  that  any  longer.  Nor  will  she
at  present,  at  any  rate,  obtain  the  immigrants  on  which  she
is  counting  to  enable  her  to  pay  her  interest.  She  cannot
redeem  the  balance  due  by  the  export  of  gold.  The  burden
would  be  too  great  in  any  case,  and  moreover  she  has  suspended
specie  payments.  A  part  of  the  balance  due  may  be  covered  by
the  higher  value  of  her  exports,  such  as  wheat.  The  remainder
she  can  only  meet  either  by  increasing  her  exports  or  by  reduc-
ing her  imports.  The  latter  she  has  already  begun  to  do.
Obviously,  therefore,  Canada  and  other  new  countries  in  the
same  position  must  re-adjust  themselves  to  the  new  conditions.
Until  the  effects  of  the  war  have  passed  and  capital  is  again
abundant,  their  progress  cannot  but  be  slower  than  of  late
years.

In  the  last  article  it  was  urged  that  any  nation  which  thinks
that  by  determining  to  take  no  part  in  war  it  will  be  unaffected
by  its  consequences  was  living  in  a  fool's  paradise,  that  the
certainty  of  enormous  material  losses  would  never  stop  war,  and
that  when  the  issues  involved  were  vital  to  Great  Britain,  the
cost  would  weigh  light  in  the  balance  ;  it  was  pointed  out  further


66  WAR   AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

that  London's  central  position  in  the  financial  world  and  the
wonderful  delicacy  of  her  credit  machinery  laid  it  open  in  a
great  crisis  to  a  sudden  and  intense  strain,  which  might  be
relieved  by  financial  measures  and  would  certainly  be  relaxed
by  the  success  of  our  arms,  but  would  be  rendered  almost  cer-
tainly unbearable  by  our  defeat  at  sea.  The  moral  was  drawn
that  the  best  protector  of  London's  financial  stability,  and
with  it  the  financial  stability  of  every  part  of  the  British
Empire,  was  the  British  fleet.  Argument  is  no  longer  needed
to  prove  what  is  now  self-evident.

DIARY  OF  EVENTS

July  28,  1914.  For  some  days  previous  to  this  date  there
had  been  a  heavy  fall  of  securities  on  all  Stock  Exchanges  and
Bourses.  The  London  and  Berhn  Stock  Exchanges  are  demoralized.
The  Paris  Stock  Exchange  is  practically  closed  except  for  cash
dealings.  Brussels,  Montreal  and  Toronto  Stock  Exchanges  closed.
Heavy  Hquidation  of  American  securities  from  Europe  in  New  York.
All  Foreign  Exchanges  demoralized.  Rates  only  nominal.  Great
difficulty  in  making  any  remittances  from  one  country  to  another.
New  York  Exchange  rate  on  London  rapidly  rising,  due  to  heavy
sales  of  securities  from  Europe.  Commercial  markets  disorganized.
Discount  market  in  London  disorganized.  Heavy  applications
for  loans  and  discounts  to  the  Bank  of  England.

July  29.  No  dealings  on  the  London  Stock  Exchange  in
morning.  Seven  firms  default.  St.  Petersburg  Stock  Exchange
closed.  Berhn  Stock  Exchange,  deaHngs  only  for  cash.  French
Rente  Settlement  postponed.  Continental  Banks  withdrawing
foreign  balances  in  London.  Foreign  Exchanges  further  demoral-
ized. New  York  Exchange  unprecedentedly  high,  far  above
gold  point.  French  Exchange  unprecedentedly  low,  far  below
gold  point.  Heavy  gold  shipments  from  New  York  to  Europe.
Over  £1,000,000  of  gold  goes  to  Continent  from  London.  Berlin
Exchange  very  high.  Bank  of  France  ceases  to  pay  out  gold.
20-franc  and  5-franc  notes  issued.

July  30.  Bank  of  England  rate  increased  from  3  per  cent  to
4  per  cent.  Bank  of  France  rate  from  3J  per  cent  to  4J  per  cent.
National  Bank  of  Belgium  from  4  per  cent  to  5  per  cent.  Bank
of  Sweden  from  4^  per  cent  to  SJ  per  cent.  London  Stock  Exchange
practically  ceases  working.  Paris  Bourse  settlement  postponed
and  necessity  of  moratorium  recognized.     Vienna  Stock  Exchange


LOMBARD  STREET  IN  WAR  67

closed.  Very  heavy  selling  orders  from  Continent  on  London.
Great  fall  in  prices.  Large  withdrawals  of  money  for  Continent.
All  foreign  exchanges  nominal.  All  machinery  for  transmitting
money  from  one  country  to  another  stopped.  Gold  at  premium
in  Paris.  Collapse  on  New  York  Stock  Exchange.  All  produce
markets  demoralized.  Bank  of  England  return  shows  increase
in  loans  and  discounts  of  about  £14,000,000  and  the  proportion  of
the  reserve  to  liabilities  falls  12  per  cent.  Further  heavy  discoimting
at  the  Bank.     Discount  market  paralysed.

July  31.  London  Stock  Exchange  closed.  Bank  of  England
rate  raised  from  4  per  cent  to  8  per  cent.  Enormous  demand  for
discounts  and  loans  at  8  per  cent  to  10 J  per  cent.  Large  demand
for  gold  at  the  Bank  of  England  and  the  Joint  Stock  Banks.  Cur-
rency becomes  scarce.  All  financial  machinery  at  a  standstill.
No  foreign  remittances  possible.  Practically  all  European  Bourses
closed.  Reichsbank  rate  raised  from  4  per  cent  to  5  per  cent.
Bank  of  Denmark  from  5  per  cent  to  6  per  cent.  Austro-Hun-
garian  Bank  from  5  per  cent  to  6  per  cent.  New  York  Stock
Exchange  closed.

August  1.  Bank  of  England  rate  raised  from  8  per  cent
to  10  per  cent.  Bank  of  France  rate  from  4 J  per  cent  to  6  per
cent.  German  Reichsbank  from  5  per  cent  to  6  per  cent.  Nether-
lands Bank  from  4J  per  cent  to  6  per  cent.  Belgian  and  Danish
rates  from  6  per  cent  to  7  per  cent.  Enormous  business  in  loans
at  the  Bank  of  England.  Moratorium  declared  in  France.  Com-
plete and  world-wide  dislocation  of  credit.  Large  amount  of  gold
withdrawn  from  Bank  of  England.  Frankfurt  and  Johannesburg
Stock  Exchanges  closed.  Melbourne  Stock  Exchange  closed
except  for  cash  dealings.  For  week  ending  August  1  New  York
ships  over  £5,000,000  gold  to  London  and  £2,000,000  to  Paris.

August  2.  Issue  of  Proclamation  declaring  moratorium  in
Bills  of  Exchange.

August  3.  Bank  Holiday.  Bill  for  general  moratorium  passes
Parliament.     Bank  Holiday  extended  for  three  further  days.

August  7.  City  resumes  business.  Issue  of  £1  Treasury
notes.  Issue  of  105.  notes  being  prepared.  Proclamation  of  general
moratorium.  Large  assistance  on  this  and  the  following  days
given  to  the  discount  market  by  the  Bank  of  England.  Bank  of
England  return  shows  a  fall  of  the  reserve  in  proportion  to  liabilities
from  40  per  cent  to  14  6  per  cent.

August  12.  Government  guarantees  the  Bank  of  England
against  any  loss  it  may  incur  in  discounting  all  bills  accepted  before
August  4.


68  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

August  13.  Bank  of  England  return  shows  an  increase  in
private  deposits  of  nearly  £30,000,000,  and  more  than  £40,000,000
over  the  return  tliree  weeks  before.  The  proportion  of  the  reserve
to  liabilities  rises  to  17  per  cent.

By  this  time  a  more  or  less  extended  moratorium  was  in  force  in
the  following  countries  among  others  :  France,  Denmark,  Norway,
Bulgaria,  Argentine,  Brazil,  Russia,  Egypt,  Cyprus,  Italy,  Sweden.
In  Brazil  and  the  Argentine  all  banks  were  closed  for  a  long  period.
In  Canada,  power  to  declare  a  moratorium  has  been  taken  by  the
Government.  In  all  the  great  European  countries,  with  the  excep-
tion of  England,  and  in  others  such  as  Canada,  specie  payments
were  suspended.  In  every  country  in  the  world  with  a  developed
banking  system,  a  crisis  of  greater  or  less  severity  occurred  and
stringent  measures  of  one  kind  or  another  had  to  be  taken  to  deal
with  it.


Ill

WAR   AND   FINANCIAL   EXHAUSTION

(December,  1914)

Much  is  said  in  the  public  press  about  the  financial  aspect
of  the  war  and  the  part  which  financial  exhaustion  is  to  play
in  bringing  it  to  an  end.  But  beyond  the  very  general  expres-
sion of  beliefs,  anticipations  and  hopes  little  attempt  has  been
made  to  investigate  how  this  financial  exhaustion  is  to  exert
its  decisive  influence  or  what  is  the  relative  financial  strength
of  the  several  combatants  engaged.  This  is  partly  because
no  exact  test  or  comparison  or  financial  resources  is  feasible.
But  it  is  partly  due  also  to  a  very  dim  apprehension  as  to  what
the  wealth  of  a  nation  really  consists  in  and  as  to  the  means
which  a  nation  possesses,  even  when  it  is  hard  pressed,  of  con-
tinuing a  war.  While,  however,  statistical  comparisons  between
different  nations  may  arrive  at  nothing  like  actual  accuracy  and
are  often  even  fallacious,  and  while  this  article  does  not  pre-
tend to  treat  the  questions  discussed  from  a  statistical  stand-
point, it  is  at  least  possible  to  discuss  the  general  elements  of
the  problem,  using  such  figures  as  are  available  mainly  as  illus-
trations of  the  argument.  When  figures  of  such  magnitude
are  in  question,  comparatively  large  errors  in  calculation  become
of  small  moment.  They  do  not  invalidate  the  conclusions  to
which  the  figures  point.

It  is  a  matter  of  great  importance  that  the  British  people
should  not  sit  down  under  the  comforting  idea  that  their
opponents  are  likely  to  be  forced  very  quickly  to  make  peace
by  financial  exhaustion.  All  history  goes  to  show  that  actual
want  of  money  or  financial  distress  has  seldom  brought  a  war
to  an  end.  Nothing  could  have  been  more  wretched  than  the
financial  affairs  of  France  at  the  beginning  of  the  Revolu-
tionary period.    But  they  did  not  stop  her  from  conquering

69


70  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

Europe.  The  Balkan  States,  small,  poor  and  financially  weak,
conducted,  without  difficulty,  two  violent  campaigns  lasting
over  many  months,  and  now  Serbia  is  fighting  a  third  war
against  a  far  more  powerful  opponent.  The  Boers,  even  after
the  whole  framework  of  their  States  was  shattered,  continued
the  struggle  for  two  years.  Mexico  has  supported,  during  three
years  of  chaos  and  rebellion,  the  armies  both  of  her  Govern-
ment and  her  revolutionaries.  So  long  as  a  Government  has  a
printing-press,  it  can  always  make  "  money."  If  an  army  can
find  food,  clothing,  and  munitions  of  war,  it  can  continue  to
fight,  so  long  as  it  wants  to.  If  the  people  behind  it  can  also
produce  not  only  food,  clothing  and  munitions  for  its  army,
but  food  and  clothing  for  itself,  and  if,  in  the  case  of  a  great
modern  industrial  State,  its  vital  newer  centres  of  industry
are  not  invaded  and  held  by  the  enemy,  it  can  continue  to
exist  and  to  carry  on  the  struggle,  so  long  as  it  wants  to.
Given  fulfilment  of  these  elementary  conditions,  the  problem
is  mainly  a  psychological  one.  If  it  cannot  find  the  absolute
necessities  of  life  and  warfare,  either  by  producing  them  or
buying  them,  a  nation  must  no  doubt  stop  ;  if  it  can  find
them,  it  can  go  on,  at  the  cost,  no  doubt,  of  much  suffering  and
sacrifice,  so  long  as  its  population  ardently  desires  and  expects
victory  and  the  attainment  of  some  great  national  object  or
ideal  and  regards  all  its  sufferings  and  sacrifices  as  the  price
which  must  willingly  be  paid.

A  review  of  the  financial  position  of  a  nation  may  show  that
war  will  bring  dislocation  of  trade,  unemployment,  high  prices
and  great  suffering,  but  it  need  not  be  assumed  that  all  this  is
equivalent  to  exhaustion,  or  must  drive  it  to  peace.  Before
you  can  judge  of  its  effects,  you  must  know  the  temper  of  the
people.  This  psychological  element  is  by  far  the  most  impor-
tant of  all,  and  all  conclusions  deduced  from  purely  financial
considerations  are  subordinate  to  it.  If  is  often  ignored,
and  it  has  therefore  been  insisted  upon  as  a  preliminary  to  any
discussion  of  the  financial  problem.

I.    Cost  of  the  War
The  present  cost  of  the  war  can  only  be  guessed  at.     It
has  been  stated — neutral^  but  mobilized  States,  being  counted


WAR  AND  FINANCIAL  EXHAUSTION  71

as  well  as  actual  belligerents — that  altogether  there  are
not  much  less  than  20,000,000  men  under  arms.  If  every
soldier  costs  about  lOs.  a  day  the  total  cost  would  mount  up
to  £10,000,000  a  day.  That  is  probably  not  far  from  the
truth.  The  British  Government,  with  not  far  short  of  2,000,000
men  now  under  arms,  is  stated  officially  to  be  actually  dis-
bursing about  £1,000,000  a  day,  and  its  real  expenditure  is
probably  a  good  deal  higher  and  will  continue  to  grow.  The
official  returns  show  an  increased  expenditure  for  the  twelve
weeks  from  August  8  to  November  1  this  year,  as  compared
with  the  same  period  last  year,  of  nearly  £78,000,000.  It
has  been  stated  in  Berlin  that  Germany's  daily  expenditure  is
not  much  over  £1,000,000  a  day,  but  in  reality  it  must  be
much  greater,  and  is  probably  nearer  £2,000,000  ;  Russia  is
probably  spending  something  like  the  same  amount,  France
between  £1,500,000  and  £2,000,000,  and  Austria  about  the
same.  To  this  we  have  to  add  the  expenditure  of  Serbia,  Japan,
TiKkey  and  Belgium,  and  of  all  the  neutral,  but  mobilized,
States.  If  everything  is  taken  into  account,  the  total  expendi-
ture cannot  well  be  less  than  £10,000,000  a  day.

If  these  figures  are  more  or  less  correct,  it  may  be  estimated
that  the  cost  of  a  year's  war  will  be  nearer  £4,000,000,000
than  £3,000,000,000.  Whatever  the  figure,  and  even  if  the  war
does  not  last  so  long  as  a  year,  the  cost  will  be  gigantic.  To
estimate  the  significance  of  this  great  expenditure,  it  is  necessary
to  get  some  idea  as  to  the  wealth  of  the  nations  which  will
have  to  foot  the  bill,  and  how  that  wealth  is  created.

II.    English  and  German  Wealth  Compared

A  nation's  wealth  is  not  the  "  money  "  it  has  or  its  gold
or  its  silver  stores.  Its  wealth  is  the  total  of  the  things,  use-
ful and  therefore  valuable  to  mankind,  which  its  citizens  at
any  one  moment  possess  in  their  own  or  other  countries  as  the
heritage  of  the  labour  and  services  of  past  generations,  or  as
the  result  of  the  labour — ^the  continuing  labour — of  the  present.
In  other  words,  a  nation's  wealth  is  of  two  kinds,  first,  its
capital,  or  its  fixed  plant,  that  is,  everything  that  former
generations^  as  well  as  this   generation  in  past  years,  have


72  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

laboured  to  produce  ;  cultivated  land,  houses,  roads,  railways,
factories  and  so  forth  :  and,  second — and  a  very  important
part — the  annual  wealth  produced  year  by  year  by  the  labour
of  its  inhabitants.  The  bulk  of  that  wealth  so  produced  each
year  is  of  course  consumed  in  feeding  and  maintaining  the
people  and  in  keeping  up  to  standard  its  fixed  plant,  its  roads,
factories,  houses,  and  the  like.  The  balance,  if  any,  represents
the  surplus  wealth  produced,  which  may  be  utilized  to  improve
the  fixed  plant  of  a  country,  or  be  lent  to  or  invested  in  other
countries.

It  is,  of  course,  a  very  difficult  matter  to  ascertain  accurately
what  is  the  wealth  of  a  great  nation,  and  any  figures  must
be  more  or  less  approximate.  Many  calculations  have  been
made,  some  differing' widely  from  others.  Some  of  the  latest,
probably  accurate  enough  for  Germany,  are  those  given  by
Dr.  HelfEerich,  one  of  the  leading  Directors  of  the  Deutsche
Bank,  who  was  recently  reported  to  be  in  Brussels  engaged  on
behalf  of  the  German  Government  in  arranging  German  finances
in  Belgium.  Dr.  Helfferich  has  made  a  detailed  study  of  the
wealth  of  Germany  and  in  the  course  of  it  institutes  a  compari-
son between  the  total  capital  wealth  of  Germany  and  that  of  her
chief  competitors.    His  figures  are  as  follows  :


Total  Wealth.

Wealth  per  licad
of  population.

Millions  £

£               £

Germany

.     14,200  to  15,600

221  to  240

France

.     11,400

290

England

.     11,300  to  12,700

250  to  284

U.S.A.

.     24,500

270

It  will  be  seen  that  he  estimates  that  the  United  States
are  the  richest  nation,  Germany  second,  England  third,  and
France  fourth.  On  the  other  hand,  other  estimates  have  put
the  wealth  of  Great  Britain  a  good  deal  higher,  e.g.,  at  about
£17,000,000,000.  These  latter  may  be  more  correct,  but  at
the  same  time  it  would  not  be  very  surprising,  on  a  priori
grounds,  if  Dr.  Helfferich's  order  were  correct.  It  follows  not
only  the  actual  size  of  the  different  countries,  but  the  numbers
of  their  population.  It  would  not  be  unlikely  that  the  capital
wealth,  representing  the  land,  houses,  etc.,  of  a  country  like


WAR  AND  FINANCIAL  EXHAUSTION  73

Germany  of  208,780  square  miles,  with  a  population  of  upwards
of  68,000,000,  should  be  greater  than  that  of  a  country  like  the
United  Kingdom  of  121,391  square  miles,  with  a  population
of  about  45,500,000.

Still  more  important  perhaps  than  the  capital  wealth  of  a
country  is  its  annual  production.  Here  again  figures  exist
relating  to  the  two  countries  with  which  this  article  is  principally
concerned,  namely,  England  and  Germany,  but  they  relate  to
different  years.  The  English  figures  are  those  given  by  the
Royal  Commission  on  the  Census  of  Production  for  the  year
1907,  published  in  1912  ;  the  figures  for  Germany  are  those
given  by  Dr.  Helfferich  for  the  year  1913.^  Their  striking
similarity  is  remarkable.  The  Royal  Commission's  figures
are  as  follows  :

Millions  £.

Goods  consumed  or  exchanged  for  services  by  classes

engaged  in  production  and   distribution    .  .     1,248  to  1,408

Goods  consumed  or  exchanged  for  services  by  classes
engaged  in  supplying  services  (i.e..  Government
servants,  professional  classes,  etc.)      .  .  .     350     to     400

Additions  by  all  classes  to  savings  and  investments    .     320     to     350


Total  Income     1 ,91 8  to  2,1 58


Dr.  Helfferich's  figures  for  Germany  are  as  follows :

Millions  £.

Total  Income .  1,960

For  Public  Purposes 343

For  private  use  .......  1,225

Surplus  wealth 392  to  417

Fifteen  years  ago  the  surplus  wealth  per  annum  produced
by  Germany  was  only  from  £220,000,000  to  £245,000,000.

It  will  be  seen  that,  while  British  savings  in  1907  were  esti-
mated at  about  £350,000,000,  German  savings  in  1913  were
estimated  at  over  £400,000,000.  Since  1907  the  wealth  of
the  world  has  very  largely  increased  and  the  wealth  of  England
with  it.  It  is  probable,  therefore,  that  the  annual  British
savings  are  still  well  ahead  of  the  German,  notwithstanding
the  much  smaller  population.

Much  of  the  savings  of  a  nation  are  of  course  invested  in


74  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

the  development  of  its  own  country  in  one  form  or  another.
One  man  may  decide  to  spend  his  new  wealth  on  the  creation
of  a  pleasure  house  ;  another  man  on  an  addition  to  his  works.
The  surplus  not  required  in  the  home  country  is  invested
abroad.  The  difference  between  England  and  Germany  is
that,  while  probably  between  one-half  and  one-third  England's
surplus  wealth  is  annually  invested  abroad,  a  much  larger  pro-
portion of  Germany's  goes  to  develop  that  country  itself.

It  is  important  to  note  how  large  a  proportion  the  annual
wealth  produced  by  a  country  bears  to  its  total  wealth.  Eng-
land's whole  capital  wealth  is  estimated  at  from  £13,000,000,000
up  to  £17,000,000,000.  She  produces  probably  at  least
£2,300,000,000  now,  or  from  about  one-sixth  to  one-seventh
of  the  whole  every  year,  of  which  she  adds  now  to  her
capital  wealth  probably  something  between  £400,000,000  and
£500,000,000.  This  fact  explains  the  rapid  recuperation  which
a  country,  able  to  produce  wealth  at  a  great  rate,  often  makes
after  a  war.

The  figures  given  above  enable  one  to  see  with  some  clear-
ness what  happens  during  the  course  of  a  great  war.  There  is
obviously  a  very  great  reduction  in  wealth  produced  and
wealth  saved.  In  the  first  place,  if  a  country  has,  say,  4,000,000
men  under  arms,  the  productive  capacity  of  these  men  is
entirely  lost.  If  one  were  to  assume  that  each  man  produces
about  £100  worth  of  wealth  a  year,  there  would  at  once  be  a
loss  of  £400,000,000  a  year.  The  loss  from  this  particular
cause  would  in  reality  be  much  less  than  that,  since  not  nearly
every  soldier  is  an  active  producer.  Moreover,  those  left
behind  would  work  harder  than  ever  and  the  empty  places  would
be  to  some  extent  filled  by  women.  None  the  less,  the  loss
would  be  very  large.  In  the  second  place,  there  is  a  great
reduction  in  the  output  of  wealth  owing  to  the  dislocation  of
trade  and  finance  throughout  the  world.  The  wheels  of  the
machine  revolve  more  slowly  and  some  of  them  stop  for  a  time
altogether.  A  great  creditor  nation  like  England  suffers  par-
ticularly from  all  this,  since  its  dividends  from  abroad  fall  off,
and  probably  its  shipping  and  banking  commissions.  The
British  trade  figures  for  August  and  September  are  symptom-
atic of  the  trade  dislocation.    British  exports  in  August  fell  by


WAR  AND  FINANCIAL  EXHAUSTION  76

nearly  £20,000,000  or  in  comparison  with  the  same  month  last
year  by  45*1  per  cent,  in  September  by  £15,750,000  or  37*1  per
cent,  and  in  October  by  £18,020,000  or  38*6  per  cent.  British
imports  in  August  fell  by  £41,200,000  or  24*3  per  cent,  in
September  by  £45,000,000  or  26*5  per  cent,  and  in  October  by
£20,170,000  or  28*1  per  cent.  Trade  may  gradually  become
more  normal,  but  meanwhile  it  is  greatly  embarrassed  and
wealth  production  consequently  much  less.

Thirdly,  there  is  a  great  creation  of  non-productive  instead  of
productive  wealth,  of  wealth  which  is  produced  only  to  be
destroyed  straight  away.  The  energies  of  industry  are  devoted
to  making  shells,  ammunition,  guns,  clothing,  transport,
materials  and  munitions  of  war  of  all  kinds,  which  are  not  use-
ful for  creating  more  wealth  and  will  in  a  few  months  have
all  disappeared.

Lastly,  there  is  in  many  countries — in  Belgium,  France,
Galicia,  Poland,  and  East  Prussia — the  actual  destruction
of  existing  wealth,  involving  many  millions  of  pounds'  worth
of  property.  England  has,  fortunately  for  herself,  not  yet
experienced  this  misfortune,  except  in  so  far  as  the  Emden
and  the  Karlsruhe  have  destroyed  her  ships  and  her  mer-
chandise.

The  total  result  then  is  that  the  annual  wealth  produced  by
a  country  is  much  smaller  and  its  consumption  greater.  The
effect  of  this  will  more  easily  be  seen  if  the  figures  on  page  73  are
examined  again.  England's  total  production  of  wealth  in  a
normal  year  instead  of  being  £2,000,000,000,  as  it  was  in  1907 —
it  would  now  be  larger^ — would  in  a  year  of  war  be  undoubtedly
a  good  deal  less.  Not  only  would  it  be  less  in  amount,  but  it
would  be  different  in  character.  An  enormously  greater
proportion  would  be  for  consumption  by  classes  engaged  in
supplying  services — in  this  case  soldiers  and  sailors.  This
figure  instead  of  being  £350,000,000  might  be  £650,000,000  or
more.  This  would  at  once  very  largely  diminish  and  probably
wipe  out  altogether  any  savings,  which  the  lesser  production
of  wealth  would  in  any  case  have  enormously  reduced.  Against
this  must  be  set  a  reduction  in  the  figure  of  £1,250,000,000
representing  the  ordinary  consumption  of  the  people,  which
would  no  doubt  follow  reduction  in  luxury,  reduced  expendi-


76  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

ture  on  maintaining  the  country's  plant,  retrenchment  and
savings  among  all  classes.  If  all  the  other  items  of  war  expendi-
ture, including  aid  given  to  friendly  countries,  claims  for  com-
pensation for  losses,  insurance  and  the  like,  exceeded,  as  they  no
doubt  would,  the  savings,  then  the  country  would  be  trenching
on  its  capital  and  would  have  to  make  this  good  by  additional
production  of  wealth,  after  the  war  was  over.  In  practice,
of  course,  even  if  a  country's  expenditure  in  war  were  only
to  equal  its  savings,  it  could  not  raise  the  whole  or  anything
like  the  whole  amount  in  taxation.  To  increase  taxation  in
England  by  £400,000,000  in  one  year,  even  if  the  nation's
total  savings  were  that,  or  even  by  haK  would  be  quite  impos-
sible. It  is  necessary  to  borrow  in  circumstances  like  the  present
for  the  larger  portion  of  the  expenditure,  and  for  the  Govern-
ment to  redeem  the  debt  gradually  by  taxing  in  later  years  the
surplus  income  of  the  population.

In  a  war  of  this  magnitude,  therefore,  every  country  un-
doubtedly lives  on  its  capital  to  some  extent,  and  most  countries
to  a  great  extent.  All  expenditure  is  reduced  to  a  minimum  ;
the  country's  fixed  plant  runs  down,  just  as  a  company,  whose
resources  are  taxed,  ceases  to  maintain  its  depreciation  fund.
Generally  speaking,  the  wealth  of  the  country  diminishes.
Nevertheless,  a  country  can  live  partly  on  its  capital — just  as  a
private  person  can — for  a  very  long  time.  In  fact,  if  the  inhabit-
ants of  a  country  restrict  their  requirements  to  the  essentials
of  life  and  existence,  and  if  they  can  produce  within  their  own
borders  enough  food  and  munitions  of  war  for  themselves  and
their  soldiers,  and  if  they  continue  to  believe  in  the  credit  of
their  Government  sufficiently  to  take  payment  in  paper  money,
there  is  nothing  to  prevent  them  from  continuing  the  struggle
indefinitely.  It  all  depends  on  whether  they  want  to.  So
long  as  a  Government  can  issue  paper  money  and  persuade  its
people  to  take  it,  it  can  get  along  somehow.  No  doubt  such
a  course  may  tend  to  depreciation  of  the  currency,  to  rising
prices,  to  the  general  dislocation  of  foreign  trade,  to  such
evils,  in  fact,  that  a  civilized  European  community  would  and
could  suffer  them  for  long  only  under  the  direst  necessity  and
might  be  crippled  by  them  for  a  long  time  afterwards.  But  it
is  as  well  to  recognize  that,  if  the  sufferings  of  the  non-combat-


WAR  AND  FINANCIAL  EXHAUSTION  77

ant  population  are  not  intolerable,  if,  in  fact,  the  will  to  fight
still  prevails,  and  all  hope  of  ultimate  victory  is  not  wholly
extinguished,  a  country  which  is  self-supporting  can  go  on
almost  indefinitely,  certainly  as  long  as  a  European  war  such
as  the  present  is  likely  for  other  reasons  to  last.

If  a  country  is  not  self-supporting  and  must  buy  from  out-
side, the  problem  is  different.  The  question,  then,  is  whether
the  country  in  question  can  get  in  the  necessary  imports  and,
if  it  can,  whether  it  can  pay  for  them.  If  it  cannot  get  them  in,
it  may  have  to  give  up  the  struggle.  If  it  can  get  them  in,  it
must  pay  in  goods  or  gold,  unless  it  can  obtain  temporary  credit
in  some  foreign  financial  centre.  It  cannot  pay  with  paper-
money.  A  German  bank-note  is  no  good  to  an  American  mer-
chant in  New  York.  He  must  have  dollars.  If  the  country
can  pay  for  its  imports  with  exports,  its  position  is  secure.
If  it  cannot,  it  must  pay  in  gold,  and,  if  it  loses  its  gold,  the
consequences  to  its  financial  life  and  credit  may  be  serious.

ni.    England's  Strength

The  foregoing  considerations  make  manifest  the  great  im-
portance to  a  country,  if  it  is  engaged  in  a  long  and  exhausting
war,  of  continuing,  so  far  as  possible,  to  produce  wealth,  and
if  it  is  not  a  self-contained  country,  of  continuing  to  import
and  export  it.  So  will  it  be  enabled  to  keep  up  its  national
income  and  find  the  resources  from  which  to  carry  on  the
struggle  without  exhaustion  and  with  its  credit  unimpaired.

It  is  important  to  compare  from  this  point  of  view  the  strength
of  the  Allies  on  the  one  hand  and  their  opponents  on  the  other,
and  particularly  the  strength  of  England  and  Germany.
Notwithstanding  the  comparative  figures  of  total  wealth  already
given,  England  is  undoubtedly  in  one  sense  the  richest  country
in  the  world.  Her  wealth  is  more  mobile  than  any  other  coun-
try's ;  she  earns  it  more  easily,  and  she  has  the  largest  amount
of  surplus  wealth  at  her  free  disposal.  England  has  invested
enormous  supplies  of  capital  all  over  the  world,  more  even
than  France.  Germany,  though  a  borrowing  nation  herself,
has  also  invested  a  great  deal,  but  probably  not  more  than  a
quarter  of  what  England  has.    Germany  therefore  has  to


78  WAE  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

produce  nearly  all  her  surplus  wealth  by  actually  working  for
it ;  England,  on  the  other  hand,  is  more  in  the  position  of  a
rich  man  whose  balance  at  the  bank  accumulates  comfortably
by  the  payment  of  dividends  on  his  investments.  Probably
nearly  £200,000,000  are  received  in  this  way  annually.  Eng-
land's great  investments  abroad  are  the  result  of  her  great
trade  over  many  decades.  She  developed  her  trade  and  began
to  accumulate  wealth  many  years  before  most  other  countries,
long  before  Germany  in  particular.  She  has  been  lending
abroad  for  many  years.  Moreover,  she  has  been  able  to  lend
her  surplus  income  to  other  countries  to  a  greater  extent  than
Germany,  because  her  increase  of  population  every  year  is
only  300,000,  while  Germany's  is  900,000.  While  it  is  obviously
a  great  national  strength  to  have  so  large  an  increase  in  popula-
tion as  Germany  has,  it  means  that  more  capital  is  needed  in
Germany  itself  to  provide  the  necessities  of  civilization  and  the
means  of  livelihood  for  those  900,000  than  England  has  to
spend  on  300,000.  France,  whose  population  is  practically
stationary,  is  a  still  greater  contrast  to  Germany  in  this  respect.
While  France's  trade  has  never  been  so  great  as  England's,  she
is  a  very  rich  country  and  accumulates  great  wealth  through
the  saving  qualities  of  the  French  people.  Since,  then,  she  has
been  accumulating  capital  for  many  years  and  since  she  has  no
increase  of  population,  the  amount  she  has  available  for  employ-
ment abroad  is  proportionately  greater  than  in  the  case  of  the
more  quickly  developing  countries.  "  France,"  Dr.  Helfferich
says,  "  is  the  land  of  capital ;  Germany  is  the  land  of  work."
Untrue  as  this  is  as  an  accurate  description  of  the  two  countries,
it  truly  depicts  a  tendency.  England  may  be  said  to  combine
the  qualities  both  of  the  capitalist  and  of  the  energetic  producer
of  wealth.

There  are  some  interesting  differences  in  the  lending  activi-
ties of  different  countries  which  tend  to  show  that  national
characteristics  express  themselves  in  finance  as  in  other  national
activities.  A  Frenchman's  love  for  the  pleasant  land  of  France
and  his  disinclination  to  leave  his  country  are  proverbial.  It
may  not  be  far-fetched  to  think  that  this  is  the  reason  why,  in
the  main,  France  lends  her  money  to  Governments  and  is  con-
tent with  a  comparatively  small,  but  generally  secure,  return,


WAR  AND  FINANCIAL  EXHAUSTION  79

and  prefers  investments  which  unlike  industrial  investments
do  not  require  much  looking  after.  In  the  main,  France
confines  herself  to  European  Governments  and  particularly  to
Russia  and  the  Balkan  States,  but  she  lends  also  largely  to  the
Governments  of  South  America,  Brazil,  the  Argentine  and
Mexico.  But  Frenchmen  have  also,  in  addition  to  their  liking
for  safety,  a  distinct  speculative  turn.  What  they  do  not  lend
to  a  Government,  they  will  probably  put  into  gold  or  other
mining  enterprises  in  South  Africa,  Mexico  or  elsewhere.  Eng-
land is  more  catholic.  While  she  lends,  it  is  true,  largely  to
Governments,  though  hardly  ever  to  European  Governments,
she  has  used  her  money  in  general  to  develop  every  conceivable
kind  of  industrial  and  other  undertakings  throughout  the  world.
It  is  hardly  too  much  to  say  that  the  railways  of  the  whole
American  continent  have  in  the  first  instance  been  financed
by  English  capital.  Englishmen  have  left  their  home-country
in  order  to  manage  these  undertakings  all  over  the  world.  If
a  French  banking  group  makes  a  loan  to  the  Argentine  Govern-
ment, the  matter  is  finished  there  and  then,  and  all  its  security
is  on  the  good  faith  of  that  Government ;  if  an  English  company
puts  money  into  an  Argentine  railway,  it  usually  sends  out
Englishmen  to  look  after  it.  It  is  noteworthy  that  though
France,  next  to  the  United  States,  has  put  most  money  into
undertakings  in  Mexico,  there  were  many  Englishmen,
Germans  and  Americans  there  before  the  recent  trouble,  but
few  Frenchmen.

There  are  certain  disadvantages  as  well  as  advantages  in
being  the  banker  of  the  world.  The  great  disadvantage — and
it  was  seen  clearly  on  the  outbreak  of  war — is  that  in  a  crisis
it  is  unpleasant  to  be  owed  very  large  sums  from  abroad,  if
you  cannot  get  the  money  owing  to  you  when  it  is  due.  And
this  is  what  happened  in  London.  Hitherto  the  machinery  by
which  one  country  can  remit  money  to  another  has  never
broken  down.  But  in  the  last  days  of  July  of  this  year  some-
thing happened  that  has  never  happened  before  in  the  history
of  the  world.  There  was  an  absolute  breakdown  in  the  finan-
cial machinery  of  the  Foreign  Exchanges,  not  only  in  Europe,
but  in  New  York,  and  everywhere  else  throughout  the  world.
However  much  debtors  wanted  to  live  up  to  their  obligations,


80  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

they  could  not  do  so,  for  it  was  for  the  time  being  quite
impossible  to  remit  money  from  one  country  to  another.  Of
course  Germany  and  Austria-Hungary  did  not  want  to,  and
would  not  have  paid  in  any  case.  But  there  were  other  coun-
tries like  the  United  States,  which  owed  us  very  large  sums
and  could  send  nothing.  The  New  York  Exchange  rose  nomin-
ally to  such  extreme  heights  that  any  one  remitting  money
from  New  York  to  London  would  have  lost  40  per  cent  in
doing  so.

This  complete  financial  breakdown  was  the  main  reason
why  a  moratorium  was  necessary  in  this  country.  Those  who
could  not  get  their  money  from  abroad  would  not  have  been
able  to  pay  their  debts  and  a  first-class  financial  crisis  would
have  ensued.  Germany  was  in  quite  a  different  position.
Being  a  far  greater  borrower,  at  any  rate  of  short  loan  money,
than  she  is  a  lender,  she  had  merely  not  to  pay  her  debts.
To  that  extent  the  war  was  temporarily  a  positive  advantage  to
her.

It  may  be  worth  remarking  here  that  the  stories  of  Germany
having  deliberately  created  a  panic  in  London  at  the  end  of
July  by  withdrawing  huge  sums  are  so  much  nonsense,  as  every
one  with  a  knowledge  of  the  facts  must  have  known.  No  doubt
Germans  with  balances  in  London  tried  to  withdraw  them  as
did  Frenchmen  and  every  one  else.  But  on  the  whole,  as  the
Berlin  Foreign  Exchange  showed,  more  money  was  being
remitted  from  Germany  to  England  at  that  moment  than
from  England  to  Germany.

But  against  the  disadvantages  of  being  a  great  creditor
nation,  there  are  much  greater  advantages.  The  world  has
to  pay  England  the  money  it  owes  her  either  in  goods  or  gold.
Ordinarily,  of  course,  it  pays  in  goods  and  only  the  fractional
balance  is  settled  in  gold.  The  official  returns  show  that  last
year  England's  imports  of  merchandise  were  £659,000,000  and
her  exports  £525,000,000.  But  the  figure  for  imports  represents
in  part  payment  by  other  countries  for  what  are  often  termed
"  invisible  exports,"  not  appearing  in  the  figure  for  exports.
These  payments  represent,  for  instance,  interest  on  loans  and
investments  abroad,  perhaps  £190,000,000,  shipping  com-
missions, perhaps  £100,000,000,  banking  commissions,  perhaps


WAR  AND  FINANCIAL  EXHAUSTION  81

£40,000,000.  Out  of  the  £659,000,000  worth  of  goods  imported
into  this  country,  £330,000,000  may  therefore  be  said  to  repre-
sent payments  for  interest  and  commissions.  That  would
leave  £329,000,000  of  imports  against  exports  of  £525,000,000.
The  balance  of  about  £190,000,000  of  exports  may  be  said
very  roughly  to  represent  the  surplus  capital  we  lent  abroad
last  year.  Now,  it  is  obvious  that  if,  while  ceasing  to  lend
money  abroad,  as  in  great  measure  we  no  doubt  shall,  except
to  our  Allies  and  to  the  British  Dominions  and  Colonies,  we
maintained  our  exports  and  our  imports  unchanged,  other
countries  would  have  to  send  us  extra  goods  to  the  amount  of
£190,000,000,  or  to  send  us  gold.

The  problem  of  course  does  not  in  practice  work  out  so
simply.  When  England  reduces  her  foreign  investments,  even
when  there  is  no  war,  exports  invariably  diminish  also.  Again,
our  dividends  and  commissions  are  certain  to  fall  off  to  some
extent.  What  will  undoubtedly  happen  is  that  both  our
exports  and  imports  will  suffer  a  reduction  and  still  more  will
change  in  character,  especially  our  imports.  It  must  be
remembered,  moreover,  that  the  British  Government  will  be
bound  to  lend  very  large  sums  to  the  Dominions  and  to  its  Allies.
It  has,  in  fact,  as  the  Prime  Minister  has  stated,  lent  already  or
undertaken  to  lend  £44,000,000.  On  the  whole,  however,
it  is  likely  that  the  balance  will  be  in  our  favour  and  that,  if  we
wish  to,  we  shall  be  able  to  draw  gold  for  our  central  bank
reserve  from  the  world.  Certainly  the  tendency  has  been  that
way  hitherto.  On  August  5  the  Bank  of  England's  gold  reserve
was  £26,000,000 ;  on  November  4  it  was  just  under  £69,000,000,
and  in  addition  the  Government  has  already  created  a  reserve
of  £12,500,000  against  its  issue  of  Treasury  notes.

It  is  also  the  fact  of  being  so  great  a  lender  that  has  enabled
London  to  remain  the  only  really  free  market  for  gold  in  the
world.  Any  one  who  can  get  bank-notes  or  has  a  credit  with  the
Bank  of  England  can  obtain  gold.  But  you  cannot  exchange
a  note  either  of  the  Imperial  Bank  of  Germany  or  the  Bank  of
France  for  gold.  Even  in  New  York,  though  Americans  are
accustomed  to  call  it  a  free  gold  market,  it  was  impossible
recently  to  obtain  gold  for  export  in  payment  of  debts  due  to
England  owing  to  a  general  determination  on  the  part  of  the  New

G


82  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

York  banks  to  prevent  it.  In  New  York,  too,  specie  payments
are  ordinarily  suspended  in  every  crisis.  Now  it  is  a  matter  of
first-class  importance  that  London  should  remain  a  free  gold
market.  To  that  it  will  be  due  very  largely  that  she  will  be
able  still  to  assert  her  claim  to  be  the  financial  centre  of  the
world.  So  long  as  that  is  so,  all  the  banks  and  financial  institu-
tions of  the  world  will  look  to  London,  since  they  know  that,
if  they  must  have  gold  to  pay  their  debts,  they  can  always  go
to  London  and  get  it.  It  is  also  a  matter  of  first-class  impor-
tance that  we  should  maintain  and  increase  our  stock  of  gold.
That  will  enable  us  to  maintain  and  increase  our  superstructure
of  credit  and  this  will  be  of  great  importance  for  the  issue  of
war  loans,  and  in  helping  us  to  finance  our  friends  and  AUies.
Moreover,  as  the  war  continues,  we  may  be  using  more  paper
money.  The  issue  of  the  £1  and  lOs.  Treasury  notes  amounts
now  to  £30,000,000.  It  might  later  increase  largely.  It  is
therefore  essential  that  we  should  keep  the  balance  of  trade
in  our  favour  and  for  this  we  must  maintain  our  exports.  The
command  of  the  sea  is  vital  to  our  financial  well-being.

Hitherto,  it  is  interesting  to  note,  the  British  Government
has  raised  money  on  terms  which  compare  favourably  with
other  countries.  The  French  Government  is  issuing  temporary
Bons  de  la  Defense  Nationale  bearing  interest  at  5  per  cent ;
the  5  per  cent  German  Government  loan  was  issued  at  97  J,  and
the  Russian  Government  is  issuing  a  5  per  cent  loan  at  94.
Before  the  issue  of  the  War  Loan  the  British  Government
had  borrowed  £90,000,000  by  means  of  Treasury  Bills  at  an
average  rate  of  interest  of  £3  lis.  Id.  It  has  now  issued  a
War  Loan  yielding  exactly  4  per  cent,  and  redeemable  in  ten
years'  time  for  the  stupendous  sum  of  £350,000,000,  far  jtihe
biggest  financial  operation  in  the  history  of  the  world.  The
War  Loan  is  an  exceedingly  attractive  security.  The  Bank
of  England  has  undertaken  for  a  period  of  three  years  to  lend
money  without  any  margin  against  the  War  stock,  taking  the
security  at  its  issue  price,  i.e.,  95,  charging  interest  at  1  per
cent  below  Bank  tate.  These  exceptional  facilities  render  an
investment  in  the  War  Loan  attractive  and  feasible  for  all
classes  of  investors,  the  only  possible  risk  being  the  chance
of  further  loans  being  required,  and  of  the  security  falling


WAR  AND  FINANCIAL  EXHAUSTION  83

temporarily  below  its  issue  price.  The  great  success  of  the  loan
is,  however,  in  any  case  a  tribute  to  the  enormous  financial
strength  of  the  country.  The  credit  of  the  British  Govern-
ment is  still  unsurpassed.  So  long  as  we  retain  command  of  the
sea,  it  should  remain  so.  If  we  lose  it,  our  position,  instead  of
being  the  best,  becomes  the  worst.

IV.    The  Position  in  Germany

Germany,  as  the  figures  already  quoted  show,  is  financially
a  rich  and  powerful  nation  in  a  stage  of  rapid  development.
A  hundred  years  ago  Germany  had  a  population  of  21,000,000,
France  of  29,000,000,  the  United  Kingdom  of  17,000,000.
To-day  Germany's  population  is  nearly  70,000,000  or  about
60,000,000  more  than  100  years  ago  ;  France  39,000,000  or
10,000,000  more,  and  the  United  Kingdom  45,000,000,  or
about  28,000,000  more.  What  will  the  figures  be  100  years
hence  ?  Since  1871  Germany's  population  has  increased  by
26,000,000,  while  France's  has  increased  by  3,000,000  only  and
England's  by  14,000,000.  Germany's  wealth  has  been  growing
by  leaps  and  bounds.  It  is  probably  growing  as  fast  as  ours
and  faster  than  France's.  As  in  all  other  departments  of
life,  so  in  finance  she  is  thoroughly  organized.  She  has  a  very
strong  and  very  well  managed  banliing  system,  controlled  by
men  of  thoroughly  expert  knowledge.  She  had  taken  all  steps
long  beforehand  to  mobilize  her  credit  and  her  resources  on
the  outbreak  of  war.

But  she  has  two  weaknesses  as  compared  with  England.
Though  a  great  creditor  nation  she  is  not  nearly  so  great  a
creditor  nation  as  England,  and,  while  she  is  almost  as  big  an
importing  nation,  she  does  not  command  the  sea.  Last  year
Germany  imported  £526,000,000  of  merchandise,  of  which
more  than  half  represents  raw  materials  and  about  £150,000,000
represents  food  and  animals,  against  her  exports  of  £495,000,000.
She  has  no  doubt  considerable  investments  abroad,  but  not
nearly  as  large  as  those  of  England ;  they  are  estimated  by
Dr.  Helfferich  at  £1,000,000,000,  as  against  England's  invest-
ments of  not  far  short  of  £4,000,000,000.  Moreover,  she  earns
nothing  like  the  same  sum  in  shipping  and  banking  commissions.


84  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

While  England  earns  from  all  these  sources  probably  about
£330,000,000,  Germany  earns  probably  under  £100,000,000.
If,  therefore,  her  exports  are  very  largely  cut  ojff,  she  cannot
pay  for  nearly  so  large  a  proportion  of  her  imports  by  money
due  to  her  from  abroad  as  England  can.  She  must  work  for
her  imports,  and  in  the  main  she  must  pay  for  them  either  in
goods  or  in  gold.  As  the  figures  above  mentioned  show,
Germany  is  not  much  more  self-contained  than  England,  and
it  is  therefore  as  important  for  her,  as  it  is  in  the  parallel  case
for  England,  that  her  trade  should  continue  to  be  as  normal
as  possible.  But  it  is  a  great  deal  more  difficult  for  her  to
achieve  this  end,  and  our  whole  efforts  should  be  devoted  to
preventing  her  from  doing  so.

What  is  of  the  greatest  importance  is  to  throttle  her  imports.
Not  only  would  the  complete  cessation  of  such  imports  as  petrol,
rubber,  copper,  nickel  and  so  forth  be  a  serious  hindrance  to
her  creation  of  munitions  and  engines  of  war,  but  German
industry  in  general  relies  very  largely  on  the  import  of  all  sorts
of  other  raw  materials.  Owing  to  the  great  changes  in  inter-
national maritime  law  made  by  the  Declaration  of  Paris  in
1857  England's  power  to  destroy  commerce  is  far  weaker  than
it  was  in  the  Napoleonic  era,  and  there  are  great  and,  indeed,
insuperable  obstacles  to  any  attempt  to  ruin  Germany's  over-
sea trade.  We  have,  too,  to  be  careful  to  avoid  serious  trouble
with  neutral  countries  and  in  particular  with  the  United  States.
Since  we  cannot  touch  non-contraband  goods  in  neutral  vessels,
whether  they  are  being  imported  to  or  exported  from  Germany
through  a  neutral  port,  it  is  impossible  to  prevent  an  import
and  export  trade  being  conducted  through  neutral  countries
like  Holland,  Sweden,  Norway,  Rumania,  Italy  and  Switzer-
land, and  it  is  certain  that  Germany  is  doing  a  very  large
trade  in  this  way.  There  are  lines  of  steamers  from  Genoa,
Amsterdam,  and  other  places  which  serve  the  purpose.  If  we
could  stop  Germany's  exports,  her  position  would  be  very
seriously  damaged.  It  has  already  been  pointed  out  that
Germany  can  in  the  main  pay  for  her  imports  only  by  her
exports.  If  we  were  to  throttle  the  latter,  we  should  have
gone  a  long  way  to  throttle  the  former  too.  It  is  most  un-
fortunate from  this  point  of  view  that  international  obliga-


WAR  AND  FINANCIAL  EXHAUSTION  86

tions  were  ever  assumed,  which  so  completely  tie  our  hands.

None  the  less,  German  industry  must  be  suffering  very
seriously.  The  great  development  of  German  industries  in
the  past  few  years  has  been  based  on  the  energetic  extension  of
their  world  trade.  They  cannot  exist  solely  on  their  home
market.  They  must  therefore  be  very  hard  hit  in  more  than
one  way.  In  the  first  place  Germany  ordinarily  exports
annually  to  countries  with  whom  she  is  now  actually  at  war
£160,000,000  worth  of  goods.  All  that  is  absolutely  cut  off.
Moreover,  her  trade  with  neutral  countries  must  be  restricted,
by  extra  railway  charges  owing  to  longer  land  carriage,  by
higher  commissions,  by  difficulties  in  financing  and  by  the
great  difficulty  in  many  cases  of  obtaining  the  necessary  raw
materials.  If  we  add  to  this  the  fact  that  she  has  mobilized
so  great  a  proportion  of  her  male  population,  we  need  have  no
doubt  that  Germany's  economic  upset  is  far  greater  than  ours,
and  that,  as  the  war  continues,  she  wiU  suffer  more  than  we
shall  from  economic  exhaustion,  unemployment,  and  dearth  of
food  and  of  raw  materials — provided  we  always  retain  com-
mand of  the  sea.  She  must  find  more  difficulty  than  we  do  in
importing  what  she  finds  necessary,  and  in  exporting  enough
to  pay  for  those  imports.  The  worst  for  her  would  be  that
she  would  cease  to  be  able  to  import  one  or  more  commodities
quite  essential  to  her  ;  the  next  worse  would  be  that,  while
obtaining  the  imports  she  wanted,  she  could  not  pay  for  them
except  by  the  export  of  gold.  The  heavy  fall  in  the  German
exchange  in  New  York  looks  as  if  Germany  had  already  been
buying  a  great  deal  in  America  and  was  finding  some  difficulty
in  paying.  The  level  of  the  exchange  shows  that  Germany
is  being  forced  now  to  pay  about  12  per  cent  more  for  imports
than  before  the  war.  This  in  itself,  unless  the  exchange  be-
comes normal  again,  is  bound  to  lead  to  a  rise  in  prices  in
Germany.  But  it  cannot  yet  be  said  that  her  currency  is
depreciated.

It  is  estimated  officially  in  Germany  that  the  last  harvest
fully  covers  her  requirements  so  far  as  rye,  oats  and  potatoes
are  concerned.  With  present  supplies  wheat,  which  appears  to
be  much  dearer  in  Germany  than  in  England,  will  last  till  the
beginning  of  September.    Official  steps  have  been  taken  to


86  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

economize  wheat.  In  all  wheat  bread  there  must  be  10  per
cent  of  rye.  Flour  made  from  potatoes  is  to  be  mixed  with  all
rye  bread.  Maximum  prices,  which  are  well  above  pre-war
prices,  are  fixed,  and  it  is  hoped  by  these  and  other  measures,
and  no  doubt  by  importation  through  neutral  countries,  to
escape  any  real  shortage  of  food.  The  supply  of  fodder  for
cattle,  which  is  imported  largely  from  Russia,  is  a  greater
problem,  and  it  is  difficult  to  see  how  it  will  be  solved.  On  the
whole,  however,  it  may  be  said  that  food  questions  will  not
become  really  serious  for  a  good  many  months.

The  outbreak  of  war  found  Germany  absolutely  prepared,
in  finance  just  as  in  everything  else,  with  the  measures
which  she  thought  necessary  to  meet  the  crisis.  England,  on
the  other  hand,  was  equally  unprepared.  Nothing  had  been
thought  out ;  there  were  difficulties  in  the  way  of  a  thorough
co-operation  of  all  those  whose  co-operation  was  absolutely
necessary, and  to  some  extent  it  was  a  case  of  muddling  through,
luckily  with  no  small  measure  of  success.  In  some  ways  there
seems  to  have  been  a  greater  financial  crisis  in  Germany  than
in  England.  The  public  was  more  alarmed,  and  there  were  a
good  many  runs  on  banks  ;  whereas,  notwithstanding  certain
provocations,  the  public  in  this  country  kept  its  head  extra-
ordinarily well.  At  the  beginning  of  August  the  Reichsbank
suspended  specie  payments,  and  issued  a  large  number  of  fresh
notes,  which  were  thus  inconvertible.  Furthermore,  there
were  at  once  created  throughout  the  country  Darlehenskassen,
or  Government  Loan  Agencies,  which  number  now  over  200,
and  which  are  authorized  to  make  loans  against  securities  of
all  kinds  up  to  a  total  amount  of  £150,000,000,  paying  out  as
currency  their  own  notes,  which  appear  to  be  legal  tender.  It
is  difficult  to  ascertain  exactly  how  many  of  these  notes  have
now  been  issued,  but  the  amount  appears  to  be  something
under  £50,000,000.

These  Darlehenskassen  no  doubt  perform  a  useful  function
in  liquidating  stocks  of  goods  and  commodities  of  all  kinds
and  relieve  the  pressure  on  the  Reichsbank.  They  were  also
especially  intended  to  facilitate  subscriptions  to  the  War
Loan.  Any  one  who  had  securities  but  not  ready  money  could
raise  a  loan  on  his  securities  and  invest  it  in  the  War  Loan.


WAR  AND  FINANCIAL  EXHAUSTION  87

If  pushed  to  any  great  length,  this  obviously  becomes  a  dan-
gerous operation.  No  doubt  if  Germany  were  successful
and  obtained  heavy  indemnities  and  if  German  Government
stocks  remained  at  their  present  level,  no  great  difficulties
need  be  anticipated.  But  if  the  contrary  is  the  case,  and
German  stocks  depreciate  in  value,  the  unfortunate  holders
will  find  that  to  raise  loans  from  the  Darlehenskassen  for  invest-
ment in  Government  securities  is  simply  another  way  of  over-
speculating  and  overtrading.  The  operation  becomes  still  more
risky  to  financial  stability  if,  as  seems  clear,  the  notes  of  the
Darlehenskassen,  when  paid  in  to  the  Eeichsbank,  are  treated
by  them  as  available,  together  with  gold,  silver  and  treasury
notes,  as  the  basis  for  the  issue  of  Reichsbank  notes.  Necessity
knows  no  law,  but  it  can  never  be  anything  but  bad  finance  to
issue  paper  based  on  paper.  In  any  consideration  of  these
special  measures  taken  to  facilitate  the  War  Loan,  the  diffi-
culties caused  by  the  non-existence  of  the  Stock  Exchange  and
the  complete  absence  of  buyers,  and  the  consequent  inability
of  any  one  to  turn  his  securities  into  cash  by  sale  should  be
borne  in  mind.  Unless  a  man  has  actual  cash  in  his  bank,
or  can  obtain  a  loan  against  his  securities,  he  is  powerless  in
present  circumstances  to  subscribe  to  any  new  issues,  and  this
is  a  difficulty  which,  but  for  the  special  facilities  offered  by  the
Bank  of  England,  would  be  felt  here  as  well  as  in  Germany.

By  the  issue  of  a  large  amount  of  notes,  both  of  the  Reichs-
bank and  the  Darlehenskassen,  and  of  silver,  by  heavy  discount-
ing of  bills,  and  by  certain  judicial  measures,  Germany  was
enabled  to  avoid  a  moratorium.  Judges  were  given  power  to
extend  the  time  for  a  debtor  unable  to  meet  his  liabilities,  and
Government  officials  were  empowered  to  supervise  the  affairs  of
a  business  man,  who  was  only  temporarily  embarrassed,  without
his  having  to  be  declared  bankrupt.  It  appears  that  the  extra
amount  of  notes,  metallic  money,  and  Treasury  notes  issued
amounted  at  the  time  of  the  War  Loan  to  about  £135,000,000.

Germany,  as  is  well  known,  recently  issued  a  War  Loan  by
which  she  raised  £220,000,000.  That  is  a  large  financial  opera-
tion, and  there  is  no  doubt  that  it  was  a  great  success.  Even
though  various  special  facilities  were  given  by  the  Reichsbank,
by  the  Darlehenskassen  and  also  by  the  Savings  Banks,  it  waa


88  WAB  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

undoubtedly  evidence  both  of  the  wealth  and  the  patriotism
of  the  country.  The  terms  of  the  loan  were  favourable,  the
return  in  interest  being  over  5  per  cent.  The  number  of
subscribers  was  1,150,000,  out  of  whom  900,000  took  £100
only  or  less,  200,000  taking  only  from  £5  to  £10.  Special
facilities  were  granted  by  the  Savings  Banks,  and  their  deposi-
tors subscribed,  it  appears,  for  about  £45,000,000.  Krupps,
it  is  interesting  to  note,  subscribed  for  £1,500,000.  Before
many  months  Germany  will  have  to  raise  another  loan.  If
the  campaign  goes  against  her,  or  even  does  not  go  with  her,
the  next  large  operation  will  of  course  not  be  nearly  so  easy.
But  it  is  worth  while  repeating  that  so  long  as  the  Government
has  a  printing-press,  it  can  make  money  and  can  pay  its  way
with  it,  so  long  as  the  German  people  trust  it,  and  wish  it  to
continue  the  struggle.  Similarly,  difficulties  of  food  supplies,
of  unemployment,  and  of  high  prices,  while  they  will  all  in-
crease, will  probably  not — taken  by  themselves — be  sufficiently
serious  to  compel  peace.  It  will  be  their  cumulative  effect
which  will  press  hard  upon  the  German  people,  unless  they  are
counterbalanced  by  great  victories  in  the  field.  It"  is  possible
that  Germany  may  fail  to  obtain  supplies  of  one  or  more
absolutely  essential  imports.  But  it  is  not  well  to  rely  on
this.  In  the  financial  and  economic  spheres  the  fundamental
question  is  the  psychology  of  the  German  nation  and  the
measure  of  the  sacrifices  it  is  prepared  to  endm*e.  There  is
everything  to  show  that  that  measure  will  be  a  large  one.
Before  her  sacrifices  become  too  heavy  for  her  to  bear,  the
campaign  will  probably  be  already  decided,  either  by  victory
in  the  field  for  one  side  or  the  other  or  by  the  appalling  slaughter
and  the  physical  exhaustion  of  her  own  or  her  opponent's
armies.

V.    France,  Russia  and  Austria-Hungary

There  is  no  space  in  which  to  consider  at  any  length  the
conditions  of  France,  Russia  and  Austria-Hungary.  The
same  general  considerations  mentioned  at  the  beginning  of
this  article  apply  to  all  of  them.

Austria-Hungary  is  undoubtedly  the  weakest  financially.
She  is  a  borrowing  nation  in  the  best  of  times,  and  Germany


WAR  AND  FINANCIAL  EXHAUSTION  89

will  no  doubt  have  to  assist  her.  But  since  her  industrial
life  is  not  so  highly  organized  as  Germany's  she  will  feel  the
shock  to  it  less.  She  will  have  to  live  on  paper  money,  and
will  suffer  the  various  economic  ills  which  follow  in  its  train.
Her  capacity  to  continue  depends  on  her  power  of  producing,
buying  or  borrowing  the  food,  clothing  and  munitions  of  war
she  requires.  She  has  plenty  of  food.  Her  greatest  difficulty
may  be  to  provide  herself  with  the  necessary  munitions  of  war.
Imports  are  probably  necessary  for  these  and  it  is  probable
that  Trieste  will  be  closely  blockaded,  so  that,  if  she  must
import  them,  she  must  import  them  through  Germany.  Her
industries  will  suffer  from  the  same  ills  as  those  of  Germany.

France  is  a  very  strong  financial  power.  The  French  people
are  the  greatest  saving  people  in  the  world.  They  have
enormous  investments  abroad  and,  next  to  England,  France
has  more  capital  to  spare  than  any  other  nation.  The  French
employ  their  savings  very  largely  in  foreign  investments,  while
the  Germans  use  theirs  mainly  to  develop  their  own  country
and  its  industries.  The  French  may  make  5  per  cent  on  their
money  ;  while  the  Germans —  though  they  may  sometimes  lose
it  all — will  more  often  make  10  per  cent  and  upwards.  Thus
Germany  in  all  probability  is  growing  richer  more  quickly
than  France.

Meanwhile,  in  this  war,  France  has  this  great  advantage  over
Germany  that,  even  if  her  exports  were  to  fall  off  altogether,  the
money  due  to  her  in  the  form  of  interest  from  abroad,  which
is  estimated  to  be  not  much  less  than  that  due  to  England,
would  pay  for  a  large  amount  of  imports.  She  has  also  a  great
advantage  over  Germany  in  that  the  seas  are  absolutely  open
to  her.  Her  exports  and  imports  of  merchandise  in  1913  were
respectively  £275,000,000  and  £340,000,000.  Furthermore,
wealth  in  France  is  very  well  distributed  and  it  is  a  great
strength  to  her  that  she  has  so  many  millions  of  small  investors
and  capitalists.

Her  disadvantages  are  that  an  important  section  of  her
country  is  invaded,  which,  as  the  Germans  well  realize,  is  most
exhausting  and  distressing  to  her,  and  that  her  financial  and
economic  life  is  greatly  hampered  by  a  very  harsh  moratorium.
It  so  happened  that  for  some  time  before  the  outbreak  of  war


90  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

the  French  banks  and  banking  world — apart,  of  course,  from
the  Bank  of  France — had  been  in  a  bad  way.  They  had  lent  too
much  money,  particularly  to  the  Argentine,  Mexico  and  Brazil,
all  of  which  countries  were  themselves  embarrassed,  and  their
resources  in  consequence  were  not  nearly  as  elastic  and  liquid  as
they  should  have  been.  As  a  result  the  Government,  in  order
to  save  the  banking  position,  had  to  decree  an  extraordinarily
harsh  moratorium,  much  worse  than  anything  known  in  Eng-
land. The  Banks  unwisely  almost  stopped  business  altogether.
No  depositor  could  get  more  than  250  francs  at  a  time,  plus
5  per  cent,  out  of  any  balance  he  had,  unless  he  were  an  em-
ployer of  labour,  when  he  could  draw  out  enough  to  pay  his
wages.  Things  are  a  little  easier  now,  but  few  steps  have  yet
been  taken  to  straighten  out  the  financial  difficulties,  and  the
present  situation  must  be  very  hampering  to  French  trade.
Nevertheless,  France  has  great  internal  strength  and  recupera-
tive powers  and  should  be  able  to  last  out  financially  as  long
as  Germany.

Russia  is  the  most  self-contained  of  all  the  Great  Powers
at  war.  Her  only  weakness  in  this  respect  may  be  that  she
may  urgently  require  munitions  of  war,  which  she  may  not
be  able  easily  to  make  herself.  That  would  be  a  serious
drawback  to  her,  since  now  her  only  door  open  to  the  world  is
through  Vladivostok  or  Port  Arthur  and  right  across  Siberia.
The  Dardanelles  are  closed,  and  Archangel  is  ice-bound.
Otherwise  she  can  provide  herself  with  all  she  can  require.
Her  wealth  has  been  increasing  very  quickly.  She  has  a  strong
banking  system.  The  economic  effect  of  the  war  will  be  much
less  on  her  than  on  the  far  more  highly  developed  industrial
system  of  Germany.  Her  financial  exhaustion  is  not  likely
in  any  case  to  be  so  serious  as  to  compel  her  to  discontinue
the  struggle.

VI.  Conclusion

It  is  too  early  yet  to  discuss  what  will  be  the  financial  and
economic  results  of  the  war.  They  must  be  great,  and  if  it
lasts  long,  they  will  be  terrible.  A  year's  war  expenditure  will
not  be  far  short  of  £4,000,000,000,  and  so  huge  a  destruction
of  wealth  as  is  taking  place,  so  large  a  draft,  on  the  world's


WAE  AND  FINANCIAL  EXHAUSTION  91

capital  cannot  but  react  profoundly  on  its  development  during
the  years  following.  It  is  possible  that  immediately  after  the
war  there  may  be  a  short  period  of  seeming  prosperity,  a  small
boom  for  a  year  or  two  while  the  absolute  necessities  of  civiliza-
tion are  being  replaced,  but  the  lack  of  capital  on  the  one
hand  and  the  greatly  reduced  purchasing  power  of  the  world's
population  on  the  other  must  soon  tell,  and  there  must  inevit-
ably be  then  a  more  or  less  prolonged  period  of  stagnation  and
depression,  while  each  country  is  building  up  its  reserves  of
capital.  The  world  after  the  war  will  be  just  like  an  engine
whose  fires  have  been  allowed  to  die  down.  It  will  be  necessary
to  build  them  up  and  heat  the  boilers  up  again,  before  there
will  be  enough  steam  to  enable  the  world  to  move  again  at
the  pace  it  has  been  doing  in  the  last  decade.  On  the  other
hand,  the  figures  already  given  of  the  annual  production  of
wealth  show  at  what  a  pace  wealth  can  now  be  created  with
the  help  of  modern  machinery  and  modern  means  of  transport.
The  country  which  will  recover  the  quickest  after  the  war  will
be  that  one  whose  population  devote  themselves  with  the
greatest  energy  to  replacing  what  has  been  lost.

But  what  is  more  important  at  this  stage  is  not  what  will
happen  after  the  war,  but  what  will  happen  during  it.  If  the
war  is  a  prolonged  one,  financial  and  still  more  economic  con-
siderations will  exert  greater  and  greater  influence.  But  for
some  months  to  come  their  influence  will  not  be  decisive  or
even  serious.  The  Allies,  it  is  true,  have  in  the  aggregate
much  greater  resources  in  wealth  and  population  than  have
Germany,  Austria-Hungary  and  Turkey.  Germany,  on  the
other  hand,  has  the  great  advantage  of  concentration  and
absolute  preparedness.  Her  whole  aim  is  and  must  be  to  deal
her  foes  rapid  blows  so  violent  and  shattering  in  character
that  they  will  be  forced  to  make  peace,  before  any  process  of
economic  exhaustion  has  begun.  In  this  it  does  not  appear
that  she  will  succeed.  But  it  may  well  be  that  the  issue  of
the  struggle  will  be  decided  in  the  next  three  or  six  months,
and,  if  it  is,  it  will  have  been  decided  not  by  any  economic  or
financial  considerations,  but  by  the  force  of  arms  on  sea  and
land.  Therefore,  though  our  task  must  be  to  weaken  Germany
economically  and  financially  in  every  possible  way,  it  would


92  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

be  folly  on  our  part  to  look  to  such  influences  to  decide  the
war  in  our  favour.  Our  business  is  to  beat  Germany  in  the
field.  If  economic  influences  tell  on  our  side,  so  much  the
better.  But  by  themselves  they  will  never  enable  us  to  impose
a  satisfactory  peace  on  our  enemies.  Moreover,  they  will
tell  on  our  side  upon  one  condition  and  one  condition  only.

The  people  of  the  British  Empire  have  learnt  much  during
the  last  three  months  and  will  learn  more  still,  before  the  war
is  over,  as  to  the  true  source  of  their  strength.  Command
of  sea,  now  as  always,  stands  between  the  Empire  and  de-
struction. Command  of  sea  is  all  that  separates  victory  from
disaster.  So  long  as  the  British  Navy  commands  the  sea,  the
British  Empire  cannot  be  defeated.  If  it  loses  command  of
the  sea,  the  Empire  cannot  win.  All  discussion  of  financial,
economic  or  other  war  problems  must  finally  come  down  to
that  simple  elementary  truth,  and  it  would  be  weU,  were  it
burnt  into  the  mind  of  every  subject  of  the  King  throughout
the  world.  This  country  has  won  her  great  struggles  mainly
by  defeating  her  enemies'  fleets  and  partly  by  the  incidental
method  of  destroying  their  commerce.  After  more  than  one
hundred  years  her  supremacy  at  sea  is  again  challenged,  and,
altered  in  many  respects  as  the  problem  is,  its  grand  outlines
are  still  the  same.  England  has,  it  is  true,  in  times  of  peace
wisely  or  unwisely  abandoned  some  weapons  of  sea  power
which  she  formerly  wielded  with  effect.  She  cannot  now,
since  the  Declaration  of  Paris,  touch  non-contraband  goods
consigned  to  the  country  of  her  enemies,  when  carried  in  a
neutral  ship,  nor  can  she  do  anything  to  interfere  with  enemy
exports  carried  in  neutral  ships.  "  Moderation  in  war,"  as
Lord  Fisher  says,  "  is  an  imbecility,"  and  we  may  deplore  now
this  diminution  of  our  powers,  since,  so  far  as  trade  is  con-
cerned, it  renders  the  power  of  our  Navy  more  defensive  than
offensive.  Yet  it  does  not  affect  our  sea  supremacy.  Nothing
will  affect  that  but  the  defeat  of  the  fleet  itself.

If  such  defeat  were  ever  to  come,  then  Great  Britain  and  all
her  Dominions  would  lose  everything  :  empire,  possessions,
shipping  and  commerce.  Their  Colonies  would  be  taken,
their  coaling  stations  seized,  their  ships  sunk  and  their  com-
merce destroyed  :  All  that  would  be  an  easy  task  for  a  victorious


WAR  AND  FINANCIAL  EXHAUSTION  93

fleet.  Neither  Conventions  nor  Declarations,  neither  Hague
Tribunals  nor  Laws  of  Nations  would  prevent  our  foes  from
employing  every  weapon  to  their  hand  for  our  destruction.

Fortunately  we  have  good  faith  that  the  British  Fleet  is
more  than  equal  to  the  task  before  it,  and  for  this  let  us  be
thankful  that  we  did  not  listen  to  those  misguided  doctrinaires,
who  with  their  incapacity  to  look  facts  in  the  face,  to  distin-
guish the  real  from  the  unreal,  urged  us  in  season  and  out  of
season  to  weaken  our  fleet,  and  fatally  to  reduce  even  that
small  margin  of  insurance  on  which  not  a  few  paltry  millions
but  our  whole  life  and  nationhood  depend.  Let  us  also  through-
out the  Empire  mark  and  learn  the  lessons  which  this  war
will  teach  us.  While  every  part  of  the  Empire  is  equally  and
vitally  concerned  in  the  command  of  the  sea,  yet  the  very
breath  of  the  Empire's  fleet  is  unity.  If  the  Grand  Fleet  itself
is  defeated,  small,  weak,  and  distant  squadrons  must  either
uselessly  keep  their  harbours  or  be  sent  to  the  bottom.  The
shores  and  commerce  of  all  the  Dominions  as  well  as  of  the
British  Islands  will  then  be  open  to  the  attack  of  the  vic-
torious enemy.  The  whole  Empire  is  therefore  equally  con-
cerned in  the  Navy's  strength  and  it  is  vital  to  every  part  that
in  this  and  in  every  war  there  shall  be  present  on  the  day  of
decision  and  at  the  decisive  point  an  irresistible  and  united
Fleet.


IV

FINANCE  IN  WAR

(June,  1915)

In  the  previous  article  written  six  months  ago  an  attempt
was  made  to  estimate  the  financial  resources  of  the  principal
nations  engaged  in  the  present  war.  The  purpose  of  this
article  is  to  follow  the  matter  up,  firstly,  by  analysing  the
manner  in  which  a  great  war  is  paid  for  ;  secondly,  by  examin-
ing shortly  the  financial  methods  which  the  combatant  Govern-
ments are  employing  to  mobilize  the  wealth  of  their  respective
nations  for  war  expenditure  ;  thirdly,  by  discussing  the  pro-
bable effect  of  the  war  expenditure  on  the  financial  future
of  the  nations  engaged.  Readers  of  the  previous  article  will
find  in  this  one  some  repetition,  which  is  made  for  the  sake
of  clearness.  A  caution  must  be  added  with  regard  to  the
figures  quoted  in  both  articles,  that  in  many  cases  they  are
only  conjectures  approximate  to  the  truth,  since  there  are  no
complete  and  exact  statistics  of  the  figures  of  national  wealth  or
national  income  for  any  of  the  countries  concerned.

I.    How  Wars  are  Paid  For

A  private  person  who  incurs  some  extraordinary  expense,
such  as  that  of  a  long  illness  or  a  costly  lawsuit,  will  meet  it  in
one  of  three  ways,  either  out  of  his  income,  or  out  of  his
capital,  or  by  borrowing.  Similarly  a  nation  which  goes  to
war  must  meet  the  expense  of  the  war  from  one  or  other  of
three  sources.  The  first  source  is  the  current  income  of  the
nation.  What  this  consists  in  will  be  discussed  later  on.  The
second  source  is  the  capital  or  accumulated  wealth  of  the  nation.
The  third  source  is  a  foreign  loan.  Let  us  call  these  three
sources  A,  B  and  C.

To  avoid  misunderstanding,  it  should  be  pointed  out  here

94


FINANCE  IN  WAR  96

that  the  income  of  a  nation  is  something  quite  different  from
the  income  of  its  Government.  The  income  of  a  Government
is  only  a  fraction  of  the  national  income,  being  that  part  which
is  taken  by  moans  of  taxation  to  meet  the  expenses  of  the
State.  The  balance  of  the  national  income  remains  in  the
hands  of  the  people  and  is  expended  by  them.  Similarly  the
national  capital  is  the  accumulated  wealth  belonging  to  the
people  as  well  as  that  belonging  to  the  Government.  It  is
necessary  to  make  this  distinction  clear,  because  the  expense  of
a  war  may  be  met  by  a  nation  out  of  its  income,  though  the
Government  may  meet  it  by  a  loan  :  that  is,  if  the  people
save  enough  during  the  war  to  pay  for  it,  and  the  Government
borrow  their  savings.  Conversely,  a  Government  might
defray  the  expenses  of  a  war  by  special  taxation,  refusing  to
raise  a  loan  ;  while  the  people  might  pay  the  special  taxes  not
out  of  their  current  income  but  out  of  their  capital,  their  accu-
mulated wealth.     But  this  last  is  not  likely  to  happen.

Having  made  this  distinction,  let  us  examine  the  three
sources  separately.

Source  A.  National  Income —

The  income  of  a  nation  may  be  defined  roughly  as  consisting
of  :

(a)  Its  current  output  or  production  of  wealth,  in  the  form

of  usable  or  saleable  articles  of  any  kind.
(6)  Its  earnings  from  other  nations  for  services  rendered,
(c)  Its  revenue  derived  from  foreign  investments.
Thus  the  gross  income  of  the  British  nation  for  the  year  1913
consisted  of  :

(a)  The  total  value  of  all  the  usable  or  saleable  articles
produced  or  manufactured  in  the  country  during  1913.
(6)  The  earnings  of  the  country  through  pajnnents  made  by
other  countries  for  services  rendered — ^for  example,
payments  by  foreigners  to  British  shipping  companies
for  freight,  payments  by  foreigners  to  London  bankers
by  way  of  commission,  etc.,  payments  made  by  foreign
tourists  for  various  services  and  so  on.
(c)  The  revenue  drawn  by  residents  in  Great  Britain  from
their  foreign  investments.


96  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

It  will  be  noted  that  items  h  and  c,  that  is  the  income  derived
from  earnings  and  the  income  derived  from  interest  on  invest-
ments, are  limited  to  the  income  of  this  sort  which  is  derived
from  abroad.  For,  if  the  earnings  or  the  interest  are  derived
from  a  British  source,  they  are  already  included  in  the  first
item,  that  is,  in  the  country's  output  of  usable  or  saleable
articles,  since  it  is  out  of  this  that  they  are  paid.

For  example,  if  a  British  shipping  company  receives  from
a  British  trader  £10,000  for  the  freight  of  merchandise  carried
on  his  account,  the  freight  is  included  in  the  final  sale  price  of
the  merchandise  when  it  leaves  his  hands.  That  is  to  say,
it  comes  out  of  the  final  sale  value  of  that  part  of  the  British
output.  If  the  value  of  the  output  has  already  been  reckoned  in
the  computation  of  the  national  income,  the  payment  of  freight
is  a  transference  and  not  an  addition.  But  if  the  shipping
company  receives  £10,000  from  an  American  trader,  for  carrying
his  goods  to  Europe,  or  for  carrying  to  America  goods  which
he  has  bought  in  Great  Britain,  the  payment  of  freight  is  an
addition  to  the  gross  national  income  of  Great  Britain.

Again,  if  Mr.  Jones  of  London  owns  shares  or  bonds  in  a
British  brewery  company,  the  revenue  which  he  draws  from
his  investment  is  simply  a  part  of  the  company's  gross  income
and  represents  a  part  of  its  output  during  the  year,  that  is,
so  many  bottles  of  beer.  As  the  company's  total  output  has
already  been  reckoned  in  computing  the  national  income,  the
payment  to  Mr.  Jones  must  not  be  reckoned  again.  But  if
he  owns  shares  or  bonds  in  the  United  States  Steel  Corporation,
the  revenue  he  derives  therefrom  is  not  a  part  of  the  British
output  of  wealth,  but  of  the  American.  It  is  therefore  an  item
in  the  national  income  which  has  not  been  reckoned  before,
and  must  be  added  to  it.

The  gross  income  of  a  country  as  defined  above  will  be  re-
duced by  any  charges  that  there  may  be  on  it  in  the  shape  of
interest  due  to  other  countries  on  money  lent,  or  payments
made  to  them  for  services  rendered.  When  these  deductions
have  been  made,  the  net  national  income  which  is  left  will  be
used  in  the  following  ways  :

(a)  To  meet  the  current  living  expenses  of  the  nation,  that
is,  to  provide  it  with  food  and  clothing  and  whatever


FINANCE  IN  WAR  97

other  articles  of  necessity  or  luxury  it  may  consume  in
the  course  of  the  year.

(h)  To  maintain  and  improve  what  may  be  called  the
national  plant  and  equipment,  e.g.,  by  keeping  up  and
adding  to  its  buildings,  its  machinery  and  so  on,  or
by  improving  the  land  through  drainage  or  clearing,
or  by  constructing  new  roads  and  railways,  or  in  many
other  ways  which  it  is  too  long  to  enumerate.

(c)  To  invest  abroad.

Now,  in  order  to  illustrate  the  payment  of  the  expense  of  a
war  out  of  national  income,  let  us  take  an  imaginary  case.  A
country  called  Utopia  has  10,000,000  inhabitants.  Its  national
income  is  £500,000,000  annually,  of  which  £400,000,000
represents  its  annual  output  or  production  of  usable  and  saleable
articles  ;  the  remaining  £100,000,000  it  gets  to  the  extent  of
£60,000,000  by  way  of  interest  on  its  foreign  investments
and  to  the  extent  of  £40,000,000  by  way  of  payments  from
other  countries  for  services  rendered.  It  spends  its  national
income  as  follows  :  £350,000,000  for  current  living  expenses,
£100,000,000  on  the  maintenance  and  improvement  of  the
national  plant,  the  remaining  £50,000,000  is  each  year  invested
abroad.

Utopia  engages  in  a  great  war.  The  first  point  to  examine
is  how  this  will  affect  the  different  items  of  its  national  income.
The  revenue  from  foreign  investments  will  not  be  affected  at
all,  unless  part  of  it  is  drawn  from  the  country  with  which
Utopia  is  at  war,  or  unless  the  war  is  so  wide-spread  as  to
impair  the  capacity  of  the  debtor  nations  for  paying  interest
on  their  debts.  The  earnings  for  services  rendered  to  other
countries  may  be  affected  either  by  Utopia  becoming  less  able
to  render  such  services  while  the  war  lasts,  or  by  the  demand
for  them  decreasing  in  war  time.  Lastly,  the  current  output
may  and  probably  wiU  be  affected,  even  though  Utopia  is  not
invaded,  by  the  drawing  off  of  its  population  for  military
service  and  by  the  disorganization  of  industry  and  production
attendant  upon  war.  Whether  the  output  is  diminished  in
total  value  or  not,  its  nature  will  no  doubt  be  partially  changed,
e.g.,  factories  which  in  peace  time  produced  steel  rails  will  now


98  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

produce  shells  and  guns.  This,  however,  need  not  be  taken
into  account  here,  as  in  either  case  the  output  wiU  be  brought
into  the  national  income  at  its  money  value.

It  is  conceivable  that  a  war  might  actually  increase  the  total
value  of  the  national  output  during  its  continuance,  through
the  speeding  up  of  production  and  through  greater  industry
being  imposed  on  the  population.  It  is  hardly  likely,  however,
that  this  effect,  if  it  happened,  would  counterbalance  the
conditions  making  against  production,  and  it  is  safe  to  say  that
nearly  always  a  war  will  bring  about  to  a  greater  or  less  extent
a  reduction  in  the  total  value  of  a  nation's  output.

Let  us  now  suppose  that  in  the  case  of  Utopia  its  revenue
from  foreign  investments  is  not  affected  at  all  by  the  war,
that  its  earnings  from  abroad  are  diminished  by  half,  that  is,
they  fall  from  £40,000,000  to  £20,000,000  a  year,  and  that  the
annual  value  of  its  national  output  is  reduced  during  war  time
from  £400,000,000  to  £350,000,000.  Its  total  annual  income
during  the  war  will  then  be  £430,000,000  only.  Say  that  in  the
first  year  the  Utopian  Government  has  to  spend  £100,000,000
on  the  war.  At  the  same  time  the  Utopian  nation  reduces  its
annual  living  expenses  from  £350,000,000  to  £280,000,000,
partly  through  the  general  observance  of  economy  and  the
cutting  off  of  expenditure  on  luxuries,  partly  through  the
living  expenses  of  the  men  in  the  field  being  reckoned  as  part
of  the  war  expenses.  The  living  expenses  of  the  Utopian
nation,  plus  its  war  expenses,  will  thus  amount  to  £380,000,000
against  an  income  of  £430,000,000.  There  will  be  a  surplus
of  £50,000,000.  It  will  be  remembered  that  in  peace  time
Utopia  spent  £100,000,000  annually  on  keeping  up  and  im-
proving her  national  plant  and  put  £50,000,000  annually  into
foreign  investments.  As  she  now  only  has  £50,000,000  of
national  income  left  over,  she  must  reduce  her  expenditure  on
"  betterments  "  in  Utopia  itself  by  one-half  and  even  then  she
will  have  no  balance  left  to  invest  abroad  in  that  year.  If
for  any  reason  she  should  wish  or  be  obliged  to  lend  money
abroad  that  year,  say  to  the  extent  of  £10,000,000,  her  expen-
diture on  domestic  ''  betterments  "  would  have  to  be  reduced
to  £40,000,000.

Say  that  in  the  second  year  of  the  war  the  cost  rises  to


FINANCE  IN  WAR  99

£  1 50, 000, 000 .  The  Utopian  nation,  by  still  more  rigid  economy ,
brings  down  its  living  expenses  to  £250,000,000.  Its  income
remaining  as  before,  it  has  a  total  expenditure  that  year  of
£400,000,000  against  an  income  of  £430,000,000.  There  is
still  £30,000,000  left  for  maintenance  of  the  national  plant,  but
nothing  for  foreign  investments.  In  the  third  year  the  war
expenditure  rises  to  £180,000,000.  The  nation  cannot  or  will
not  reduce  its  living  expenses  below  £250,000,000.  The
income  remaining  the  same  as  before,  there  is  no  margin  at  all
left  for  "  betterments."  It  is  certain  that  a  nation  like  Utopia
cannot  go  on  for  even  one  year  without  spending  a  large  sum
on  the  maintenance  of  its  national  plant, even  if  nothing  be  spent
on  improvements.  But,  as  the  whole  amount  of  the  national
income  is  now  absorbed  by  (a)  The  current  living  expenses  of
the  nation,  (b)  The  special  war  expenses,  how  can  any  further
expenditure  be  met  ?  It  can  only  be  done  by  meeting  part
of  the  war  expenditure  not  out  of  national  income,  but
from  one  of  the  other  two  sources  indicated  previously,  i.e.,
from  the  capital  or  accumulated  wealth  of  the  nation,  or  from
borrowing.

Before  we  proceed  to  consider  these  other  two  sources,  it
may  again  be  observed  that  a  nation  may  pay  for  a  war  out
of  income,  although  the  State  pays  for  it  by  borrowing.  Thus,
in  the  illustration  given  above,  the  Utopian  nation  is  sup-
posed to  find  £100,000,000  for  the  first  year  of  the  war  and
£150,000,000  for  the  second  year  out  of  the  national  income.
But  the  Utopian  Government  may  raise  the  whole  sum  re-
quired in  both  years  not  by  taxation  but  by  a  loan.  It  would
borrow  the  money  from  its  own  subjects,  who  would  lend  it
the  surplus. of  their  income.  At  the  end  of  the  second  year,  the
State  of  Utopia  has  increased  its  debt  by  £250,000,000,  but
the  debt  is  due  to  its  own  subjects,  and  in  a  computation  of
national  wealth  the  two  entries  cancel  one  another.  From
that  point  of  view  the  result  is  just  the  same  as  if  the  Govern-
ment had  paid  for  the  war,  as  it  went  along,  by  taxation  in-
stead of  by  raising  a  loan.  In  practice,  of  course,  it  would
be  impossible  to  impose  or  distribute  equitably  so  large  an
addition  to  the  annual  taxes  of  the  country,  and  for  that  reason,
as  well  as  for  others  which  it  is  not  necessary  to  speak  of  here,


100  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

a  modern  state  would  certainly  meet  the  greater  part  of  its
war  expenditure  by  borrowing,  even  though  the  whole  of  the
money  borrowed  were  provided  out  of  the  current  national
income.

Source  B.  National  Capital —

A  nation's  capital  at  any  moment  may  be  defined  as  the

whole  mass  of  its  accumulated  wealth.     This  will  consist  of  :

(a)  Fixed  assets,  such  as  land,  buildings,  machinery,  railways,

roads,  canals,  irrigation  systems,  etc.,  etc.
(6)  Live  stock  and  stocks  of  raw  material  and  manufactured
goods  of  every  kind,  including  articles  of  art  and  luxury.

(c)  Gold  and  silver  coin  or  bullion.

(d)  Debts  owing  by  foreign  nations.

The  first  three  items  under  modern  conditions  will  be  to  a
large  extent  represented  by  pieces  of  paper  in  the  form  of
shares,  or  bonds,  or  bank-notes,  which,  of  course,  are  not
wealth  in  themselves,  but  are  tokens  or  evidences  of  property
in  wealth.

The  fourth  item  is  also  generally  represented  by  shares,  or
bonds,  which  are  evidences  of  debts  due  by  other  countries
or  of  property  owned  in  other  countries.  To  some  extent  it
may  also  be  represented  by  biUs  and  other  short  term  instru-
ments, by  banking  entries  or  simply  by  entries  in  merchants'
books,  all  of  which  are  evidences  of  floating  debts  due  from
abroad.

When  a  country  goes  to  war,  to  what  extent  can  it  draw
upon  its  capital  or  accumulated  wealth  to  defray  the  expenses
of  the  war  ?  Plainly,  it  can  only  do  so  either  by  using  the
actual  articles  of  which  its  capital  consists  or  by  selling  or
pledging  them  and  using  the  proceeds  to  meet  the  expenses  of
war.

The  first  method,  that  is,  the  direct  use  of  its  accumulated
wealth,  is  limited  by  the  nature  of  the  wealth.  Live  stock
and  stocks  of  metals  or  clothing  or  leather  or  food  or  other  raw
material  and  manufactured  articles  can  be  used  up  and  not
replaced  or  only  partly  replaced.  Coin  and  bullion  can  be
used  to  purchase  from  abroad  goods  wanted  either  for  the  war


FINANCE  IN  -WftlSi'v'!'^  ^^^

or  for  the  civil  population.  But  with  that  we  come  to  an
end  of  the  direct  use  of  the  nation's  accumulated  wealth  for
warlike  purposes.  The  fixed  assets,  such  as  land  and  buildings,
the  articles  of  art  and  luxury,  and  the  pieces  of  paper  represent-
ing debts  due  from  foreign  countries,  can  only  be  made  useful
to  meet  warlike  expenditure,  if  they  can  be  sold  or  pledged
abroad.  In  the  present  war,  for  example,  an  Englishman  may
sell  a  picture  by  Titian  to  an  inhabitant  of  the  United  States.
He  thus  establishes  a  credit  in  the  United  States  for  the  price
of  the  picture,  say,  £10,000.  He  invests  this  sum  in  the
British  War  Loan  and  the  British  Government  buys  £10,000
worth  of  shells  or  of  clothing  or  of  wheat  from  America.  The
payment  for  this  gives  America  a  credit  for  £10,000  in  London,
which  by  the  ordinary  process  of  exchange  cancels  the  credit
established  in  America  by  the  seller  of  the  pictiure.  In  this
way  a  part  of  Great  Britain's  accumulated  wealth,  namely  a
Titian  picture,  has  been  realized  and  the  proceeds  devoted  to
war  expenditure.

Instead  of  selling  a  picture  our  Englishman  might  sell  on
the  New  York  Market  a  parcel  of  American  Municipal  Bonds
or  American  Railway  Shares  ;  or,  if  New  York  was  willing
to  purchase,  he  might  sell  Japanese  Government  Stock  or  the
shares  of  South  American  Tramways.  In  either  case,  he  would
be  realizing  a  part  of  the  debt  due  to  Great  Britain  by  foreign
countries.  If  he  contributed  the  proceeds  to  war  expenditure,
either  in  the  form  of  taxation  or  by  taking  up  stock  in  a  British
War  Loan,  the  immediate  result  of  the  process  would  be  that
Great  Britain  would  have  used  a  portion  of  its  accumulated
wealth  towards  meeting  its  current  expenditure  on  war.

In  the  first  example  quoted  it  was  an  article  of  luxury  that
was  converted  and  the  proceeds  used  for  warlike  expenditure  ;
in  the  second  it  was  a  debt  due  from  a  foreign  country.  But
our  Englishman  might  also  sell  abroad  an  English  Railway
Debenture  or  conceivably  might  raise  a  mortgage  in  New  York
or  in  Amsterdam  on  a  building  belonging  to  him  in  the  City
of  London,  and  the  proceeds  as  before  might  flow  into  the  war-
chest  of  Great  Britian.  In  this  case  a  part  of  the  country's
fixed  assets  would  be  sold  or  pledged.  The  asset  would  remain
in  Great  Britain,  it  would  not  disappear  from  the  country


102     _  ,;:WAB*  A'NB  NATIONAL  FINANCE

altogether  like  the  Titian  or  the  American  Bond,  but  there
would  be  an  obligation  laid  upon  it  involving  a  charge  on  the
country's  future  earnings.  It  will  be  seen  that  this  particular
way  of  using  capital  comes  very  close  to  the  third  method  of
providing  for  war  expenditure  which  has  been  indicated,
namely,  that  of  borrowing  abroad.  It  is  only  distinguished
from  it  inasmuch  as  it  consists  in  the  pledging  of  particular
assets  by  private  individuals,  whereas  borrowing  abroad  is
taken  to  mean  the  pledging  by  the  national  Government  not
of  any  particular  assets,  but  of  the  country's  general  credit.
In  practice  it  is  not  likely  that  the  raising  of  money  from
abroad  against  fixed  assets  in  a  country  at  war  wiU  be  carried
on  to  any  great  extent.  For  it  can  only  be  done  if  foreigners
are  willing  to  invest  money  on  the  security  of  fixed  assets  in
a  country  at  war,  and  it  is  not  likely  that  they  will  be.

It  will  be  noted  that  in  all  the  instances  quoted  the  sale
is  spoken  of  as  being  made  abroad.  If  the  sale  is  made  within
the  country  at  war,  the  resources  of  that  country  are  not
increased.  If  the  Englishman  sells  his  Titian  or  his  American
shares  to  another  Englishman,  he  may  contribute  the  money
to  the  war  by  paying  it  in  taxation  or  lending  it  to  the  Govern-
ment, but  he  has  deprived  the  purchaser  of  the  power  to  do
the  same  thing.

It  was  stated  above  that  war  expenditure  might  be  partly
defrayed  out  of  a  nation's  capital  through  stocks  of  raw  material
and  manufactured  goods  being  used  up  and  not  replaced.
For  instance,  a  country  might  carry  in  ordinary  times  six
months'  stock  of  raw  material  for  its  principal  manufactures
and  six  months'  supply  of  manufactured  goods  for  its  prin-
cipal trading  customers.  During  the  war  it  might  and  probably
would  allow  these  stocks  to  run  down.  Suppose  they  ran  down
to  the  extent  of  one-half  in  each  case.  At  the  end  of  the  war
the  country  would  find  itself  with  this  particular  part  of  its
capital  diminished  by  one-half  and  it  would  find  it  necessary
to  replace  this  used-up  capital  before  it  could  again  conduct
its  business  on  a  proper  footing.  Live  stock,  again,  is  likely  to  be
used  up  in  the  same  way.     So  is  shipping.

In  the  case  of  a  long  war  a  somewhat  similar  process  may
happen  in  relation  to  many  of  a  country's  fixed  assets,  e.g.,


FINANCE  IN  WAR  103

buildings,  railway  lines  and  equipment,  land,  etc.  During
the  war  the  activities  and  resources  of  the  nation  will  be  turned
to  producing  articles  of  immediate  consumption,  either  for
military  use,  or  for  the  supply  of  the  civil  population.  It  is
likely  that  there  may  not  be  enough  left  over  to  maintain  the
plant  of  the  country,  as  it  is  called,  in  good  condition.  For  a
few  months  this  will  not  matter,  but,  if  the  war  is  prolonged
it  will  be  found  at  the  end  of  it  that  the  plant  of  the  country
has  run  down  and  needs  heavy  expenditure  to  put  it  again  into
a  state  of  efficiency.  Suppose,  for  example,  that  the  railway
companies  of  a  country  in  an  ordinary  year  spend  £25,000,000
on  the  maintenance  of  their  roads  and  equipment,  and  suppose
that  during  a  war  of  two  years,  owing  to  the  difficulty  in  raising
capital  for  such  purposes,  they  should  only  spend  £5,000,000
each  year  on  maintenance.  At  the  end  of  the  two  years  the
capital  value  of  the  railway  system  of  the  country  would  be
impaired  to  the  extent  of  £40,000,000,  and  it  may  be  said
that  the  national  capital  had  been  diminished  to  that  extent
in  the  process  of  paying  for  the  war.

It  is  impossible  to  calculate  now  to  what  extent  the  plant
of  Great  Britain  or  of  the  other  countries  at  war  is  being  im-
paired through  the  retrenchment  of  ordinary  expenditure  on
maintenance.  But  there  is  no  doubt  that  deterioration  is
going  on  in  many  directions,  and  in  this  respect  all  the  warring
nations  are,  in  a  manner  of  speaking,  paying  part  of  their  war
expenses  out  of  capital.

Source  C.  Foreign  Loans —

This  method  of  paying  for  a  war  does  not  require  a  long
description.  It  is  restricted  to  the  case  where  the  Govern-
ment of  a  belligerent  country  is  able  to  get  a  loan  taken  up
by  the  investors  of  some  foreign  country.  The  belligerent
Government  borrows  money  abroad  on  its  national  credit.
The  same  effect  would  be  produced  if  individuals  belonging
to  the  belligerent  nation  were  to  borrow  money  from  abroad,
and  then  lend  it  to  their  own  Government  or  pay  it  out  in
taxes  or  in  other  ways  use  it  to  support  the  expense  of  the  war.
But  since  it  is  in  most  cases  impossible  for  a  private  person
to  borrow  abroad  simply  on  his  credit,  but  he  is  obliged,  if


104  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

he  wants  to  raise  money,  to  seU  or  to  pledge  some  tangible
asset,  it  is  permissible  to  say  that  money  obtained  privately
from  abroad  will  nearly  all  be  obtained  by  the  realization  of
capital,  and  thus  will  come  under  the  heading  of  Source  B,
and  that  the  use  of  Source  C  is  restricted  to  the  Governments  of
the  nations  at  war.  An  example  of  the  use  of  this  source  was
afforded  in  the  Russo-Japanese  War,  when  both  the  belligerent
Governments  raised  foreign  loans.  And  again  in  the  Balkan
War.  In  the  present  war,  most  of  the  nations  in  a  position  to
lend  money  are  themselves  combatant,  and  so  far  there  has
been  no  attempt  at  raising  a  foreign  loan  on  a  large  scale.
There  have  been  loans  from  one  Allied  Government  to  another,
but  these  are  presumably  temporary.  Both  France  and  Ger-
many have,  moreover,  sold  Treasury  Notes  in  New  York  to
pay  for  their  American  purchases,  but  only  in  comparatively
small  amounts.

II.    How  Wars  are  Financed

Having  examined  the  different  sources  from  which  a  nation
may  provide  for  the  expense  of  a  war,  we  must  consider  the
financial  methods  which  may  be  used  to  raise  the  money.
These  have  to  be  settled  by  the  Government  of  the  country
at  war,  which  may  determine  to  raise  the  means  it  requires
for  carrying  on  the  war  either  by  taxation  or  by  borrowing.
In  the  Middle  Ages,  when  the  possibilities  of  taxation  were
limited  and  national  borrowing  had  not  yet  been  developed,
it  was  the  practice  of  kings  to  accumulate  a  treasure  in  gold,
which  they  could  use  when  they  went  to  war.  Such  methods
are  no  longer  possible,  and,  if  they  were  possible,  would  be
wasteful.  The  so-called  war -chests  which  are  sometimes
accumulated  by  modern  governments  are  not  intended  to  meet
the  expenses  of  a  protracted  war,  for  which  they  are  quite
insufficient,  but  to  supply  a  reserve  of  ready  cash  to  be  used
in  an  emergency,  particularly  for  the  heavy  mobilization
expenses  and  demands  of  the  first  few  weeks.

Taxation  is  inadequate  and  unsuitable  as  a  means  to  meet  the
expense  of  a  great  war.  In  such  a  case  as  that  described
above,  where  a  nation  actually  provides  the  whole  cost  of  a
war  out  of  its  current  income,  it  would  be  possible  in  theory  for


FINANCE  IN  WAR  106

fche  Government  to  raise  the  whole  sum  in  the  form  of  curront
taxation.  Thus  at  the  end  of  the  war  the  State  would  have
incurred  no  fresh  debt.  But  in  practice  so  huge  and  sudden
an  addition  to  the  taxes  would  be  intensely  unpopular  and
would  wear  the  appearance  of  confiscation,  and  thus  damage
national  credit.  A  modern  Government,  therefore,  is  certain
to  provide  most  of  its  war  expenses  by  borrowing,  even  though
it  borrows  from  its  own  subjects  and  borrows  nothing  but  the
surplus  of  their  current  income.  In  that  case  the  nation
considered  as  an  aggregate  of  individuals  is  lending  the  money
to  itself  in  its  collective  capacity  as  a  State.  The  people  make
the  loan  and  it  is  the  people  who  ultimately  repay  it,  since
interest  and  principal  of  the  national  debt  fall  on  the  future
taxes.  But  by  proceeding  in  this  way,  instead  of  putting  the
whole  cost  on  the  taxes  of  one  or  two  years,  the  burden  is
spread  over  a  long  period  and  it  is  much  more  easy  to  distribute
it  without  causing  discontent.

There  is  one  method  in  which  war  expenses  can  be  met  by
what  is  really  an  indirect  form  of  taxation,  though  it  does  not
bear  that  appearance  on  the  surface.  It  is  a  method  more  in
favour  with  revolutionary  than  with  regular  governments,
though,  when  in  great  straits,  there  in  no  nation  which  may  be
able  to  escape  it.  It  consists  in  the  forced  issue  of  paper  money.
Say  that  a  Government  requires  £300,000,000.  Instead  of
raising  the  taxes  or  issuing  a  loan,  it  may  simply  use  its  printing-
presses  and  strike  off  currency  notes  to  that  amount  and  by
declaring  them  to  be  legal  tender  may  force  them  into  circula-
tion. Of  course  it  can  only  force  its  own  subjects  to  take  them,
and  unless  the  surplus  currency  is  required  for  the  ordinary
internal  business  of  the  nation,  the  currency  notes  will  be  depre-
ciated. If  there  is  an  undertaking  on  the  part  of  the  Govern-
ment to  redeem  them  in  gold  at  some  future  date,  their  depre-
ciation may  be  checked  by  faith  in  the  promise  to  redeem.
But,  if  the  currency  is  irredeemable,  there  will  be  no  check  to
depreciation,  until  the  total  value  of  the  volume  of  currency
in  issue  at  any  one  time  has  reached  the  level  of  the  total
value  of  the  real  currency  requirements  of  the  country.  Thus
prices  calculated  in  the  depreciated  currency  will  rise  and  the
holders  of  currency  from  time  to  time  will  incur  a  gradually


106  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

increasing  loss  through  the  diminution  in  the  purchasing  power
of  their  currency.  This  in  effect  amounts  to  taxation,  the
incidence  of  which  is  uncertain  and  irregular.

Although  at  first  sight  the  above  may  seem  an  easy  and  attrac-
tive way  of  raising  money,  the  ulterior  effects  of  deranging
the  currency  system  of  a  country  are  so  serious  that  no  Govern-
ment with  financial  foresight  would  adopt  this  method  to  any
great  extent,  unless  under  the  pressure  of  absolute  necessity.  It
was  adopted,  as  is  well  known,  by  the  revolutionary  Govern-
ment in  France  at  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century.  It  was
again  adopted  by  both  parties  in  the  Civil  War  in  the  United
States  and  it  has  been  a  not  uncommon  device  with  revolution-
ary Governments  in  South  America.  But  it  is  generally  recog-
nized to  be  a  method  of  last  resort.

There  is,  however,  this  qualification  to  be  made  of  the
above  observations.  When  a  country  is  at  war,  it  is  an  ob-
served phenomenon  that  it  requires  a  much  larger  amount  of
currency  for  its  everyday  use  than  in  normal  times.  This  may
be  put  down  to  a  combination  of  causes.  In  the  first  place  an
unusual  amount  of  buying  and  selling  is  going  on  through
the  addition  of  war  expense  to  the  normal  expenditure  of  the
country.  Secondly,  owing  to  the  element  of  uncertainty  which
is  introduced  by  a  state  of  war,  business  transactions  are
carried  out  on  a  cash  basis  to  a  much  greater  extent  than  in
time  of  peace,  and  thus  a  greater  volume  of  currency  is  needed
for  them.  Thirdly,  there  is  a  pronounced  tendency  on  the
part  of  private  persons  to  hoard  their  money  or  at  least  to
keep  by  them  for  emergencies  a  larger  sum  in  cash  than  they
would  do  in  ordinary  times.  If  they  hoard  gold,  it  is  with-
drawn from  the  currency  for  the  time  being  and  a  vacancy  is
made  which  can  be  filled  by  fresh  paper  currency.  More-
over, it  appears  that  people  sometimes  hoard  the  paper
currency  itself,  or  at  any  rate  keep  a  cash  reserve  in  this
form.

There  may  be  other  causes  at  work,  but  the  above  three
can  be  specially  mentioned.  At  any  rate,  there  is  no  doubt
about  the  fact  that  a  country  at  war  keeps  a  much  greater
volume  of  currency  in  internal  circulation  than  the  same
country  does  in  peace  time.     The  Bank  of  England's  note


FINANCE  IN  WAR  107

circulation  in  the  first  week  of  May  was  over  £38,000,000,
against  £29,500,000  a  year  before.  In  addition  there  were
in  circulation  £40,000,000  of  Treasury  currency  notes,  making
a  total  addition  to  the  paper  currency  of  Great  Britain  of
about  £48,500,000  as  compared  with  a  year  ago.  It  must
be  remembered  that  Great  Britain  uses  the  cheque  as  a  sub-
stitute for  currency  much  more  than  any  other  nation.  The
excess  of  paper  currency  in  the  other  combatant  countries  is
far  greater.  The  note  circulation  of  the  Bank  of  France  in  the
first  week  of  April  amounted  to  the  equivalent  of  £456,000,000
as  against  £237,000,000  a  year  ago— an  excess  of  £219,000,000.
The  Imperial  Bank  of  Germany's  statement  for  the  same  date
shows  a  note  circulation  equivalent  to  £268,000,000,  as  com-
pared with  £110,000,000  a  year  ago— an  excess  of  £158,000,000.
In  addition  to  this  there  appear  to  be  notes  of  the  new  Loan-
banks  in  circulation  to  the  value  of  about  £35,000,000.  Thus
the  total  excess  of  the  German  paper  currency  as  compared
with  a  year  before,  amounted  to  £193,000,000.

In  Russia  the  note  circulation  of  the  State  Bank  at  the
same  date  amounted  to  £319,000,000,  as  against  £161,000,000
a  year  ago — an  excess  of  £158,000,000.

The  phenomenon  of  an  increased  demand  for  internal  cxu-rency
in  a  country  under  war  conditions  gives  to  a  Government,
whose  credit  is  good  with  its  own  subjects,  an  opportunity
for  raising  a  sum  equivalent  to  the  increase  in  the  demand
for  currency  without  necessarily  causing  any  depreciation.  It
will  be  seen  from  the  figures  quoted  above  that  this  opportunity
has  been  taken  advantage  of  very  fully  in  Germany,  France  and
Russia.  The  increased  note  circulation  of  the  State  Banks  of
the  three  countries  supplies  the  banks  with  so  much  extra
money  for  the  cost  of  printing  it,  and  the  additional  money
is  loaned  to  the  respective  Governments  under  the  arrange-
ments which  they  have  with  the  State  Banks,  and  helps
to  meet  their  war  expenditure.  It  will  be  observed  that  the
British  Government  has  only  raised  a  comparatively  small
sum  through  the  issue  of  paper  currency.  Moreover,  this
sum  is  really  much  less  than  it  appears,  inasmuch  as  the  Treasury
is  at  present  holding  a  reserve  of  gold  against  its  issued  currency
notes  up  to  two-thirds  of  their  value,  so  that  the  benefit  obtained


108  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

by  the  Government  from  the  issue  amounts  not  to  £40,000,000
but  to  about  £13,000,000.

It  cannot  be  said  that  in  any  of  the  countries  mentioned  the
issue  of  currency  has  yet  been  pushed  to  a  point  which  involves
depreciation.  It  is  true  that,  judged  by  the  test  of  the  foreign
exchanges,  both  German  and  Russian  paper  show  a  serious  fall
in  value.  But  the  foreign  exchanges,  especially  in  war  time,
are  affected  by  other  causes  than  depreciation  of  domestic
currency.  Such  depreciation,  no  doubt,  would  always  cause
the  foreign  exchanges  to  move  against  a  country  :  but  it  may
move  that  way  without  such  depreciation.  In  the  case  of
France,  where  the  expansion  of  the  currency  has  been  greatest
of  all,  the  exchange  has  remained  almost  at  normal,  the  adverse
movement  being  slight  and  fully  accounted  for  by  reasons
unconnected  with  the  currency.

It  must  be  recognized,  however,  that  at  the  end  of  the  war
the  excess  paper  currency  which  has  been  issued  in  the  different
countries  will  no  longer  be  required  as  each  country  returns
to  normal  conditions  of  business.  It  will  therefore  have  to
be  redeemed,  unless  the  nations  concerned  are  prepared  and
able  to  go  on  using  it  as  a  substitute  for  an  equivalent  part  of
their  gold  currency.  For  example,  we  may  assume  that  France,
after  peace  returns,  will  not  require  more  currency  in  issue
than  she  had  before  the  war.  The  excess  of  £219,000,000,  which
she  now  is  using  and  which  has  been  provided  by  a  paper  issue,
will  flow  back  into  the  Bank  and  will  have  to  be  redeemed.  It
might  indeed  remain  in  circulation,  if  an  equivalent  amount
of  gold  coin  were  driven  out,  that  is,  if  the  French  people  were
willing  and  able  to  substitute  a  paper  for  their  gold  currency
for  everyday  use,  to  the  extent  of  £219,000,000.  But  this  is
not  likely.  The  excess  paper  currency  will  therefore  have
to  be  redeemed  and  the  French  Government  will  be  obliged
ultimately  to  provide  the  funds  with  which  to  redeem  it.  In
the  meantime,  it  has  the  use  of  the  money,  which  thus  in  effect
is  a  loan  bearing  no  interest.

Since  ordinary  taxation  is  inadequate  and  depreciation  of
currency  is  to  be  avoided,  it  follows  that  a  State  loan  is  the
most  proper  and  convenient  method  by  which  a  Government
can  meet  the  expenses  of  a  war.    The  loan  may  be  raised  from


FINANCE  IN  WAR  109

its  own  subjects,  who  may  find  the  money  out  of  income,  or
by  realizing  their  capital,  or  partly  by  the  one  and  partly  by
the  other.  In  this  case  Sources  A  and  B  referred  to  above,
namely  the  national  income  and  national  capital,  are  drawn
upon.  Or  the  loan  may  be  raised  abroad,  in  which  case  Source
C,  namely  the  wealth  of  other  countries,  is  drawn  upon.

The  Government  borrowing  may  take  the  shape  of  a  long-
term  issue,  such  as  the  recent  British  or  German  war  loans.
In  this  case  the  Government  borrows  the  money  for  a  long
period  of  years  and  does  not  undertake  to  repay  the  principal
till  the  end  of  that  period.  In  the  meantime,  it  has  to  pay
the  annual  interest  on  the  loan.  Or  it  may  take  the  shape  of
an  issue  of  Treasury  Bills  or  similar  instruments.  These
represent  a  short-term  loan  for  six  months  or  a  year  :  and
although  in  special  circumstances  they  can  be  issued  in  con-
siderable quantities,  they  are,  of  course,  merely  a  temporary
expedient.  Sooner  or  later  the  advances  which  they  represent
must  be  converted  into  a  long-term  loan.

What  limits  are  there  to  the  power  of  a  first-class  Govern-
ment to  raise  loans  ?

If  it  is  borrowing  abroad,  the  limit  is  set  by  its  own  credit  and
in  addition,  of  course,  by  the  power  of  foreign  countries  to  lend.
If  Germany  alone  were  engaged  in  war— say  with  China — the
German  Government  could  no  doubt  raise  loans  in  Europe,  as
well  as  the  United  States,  to  almost  any  extent,  by  offering
sufficiently  attractive  terms.  But  in  the  present  war  most  of  the
rich  countries  are  engaged  as  combatants :  the  only  neutral  which
has  power  to  lend  on  a  large  scale  is  the  United  States  ;  and  so
far,  except  for  a  small  issue  of  French  and  German  Treasury
Notes,  none  of  the  belligerent  Governments  has  tried  to  borrow
there.

But  when  a  Government  borrows  from  its  own  subjects,  its
credit  is  practically  inexhaustible  and  the  limit  must  be  set
by  their  power  to  lend.  The  processes  of  modern  finance
are  so  intricate  and  the  creation  of  credit  through  the  machinery
of  the  banks  is  so  easy,  that  the  layman  is  sometimes  inclined
to  believe  that  there  is  no  limit  and  that  a  Government  can  go
on  borrowing  for  ever,  if  it  makes  the  necessary  arrangements
with  the  banks.     This  belief  is  apparently  being  cultivated


110  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

in  Germany,  to  judge  by  the  recommendations  of  a  cii'cular  sent
out  by  the  Wolff  Agency,  which  is  said  to  have  been  approved
if  not  instigated  by  Dr.  Helfferich,  the  Minister  of  Finance.
This  circular  appealed  to  the  savings  banks  and  others  to
subscribe  liberally  to  the  recent  German  War  Loan.  It  pointed
out  how  mistaken  those  investors  were  who  thought  that
because  they  had  invested  their  liquid  resources  in  the  first
loan  they  could  not  subscribe  for  the  second.  On  the  contrary,
the  scrip  of  the  first  loan  was  an  excellent  basis  for  borrowing
money  from  the  ordinary  banks  or  the  loan-banks,  in  order
to  buy  the  second.

At  first  sight  not  only  does  the  process  advised  in  this  circu-
lar appear  an  excellent  way  of  assuring  the  success  of  the
War  Loan,  but  there  seems  no  reason  why  it  should  not  be
repeated  ad  infinitum.  The  patriotic  German  might  subscribe
his  10,000  marks  to  the  first  War  Loan  and  obtain  an  advance
against  it :  subscribe  this  advance  to  a  new  loan  and  so  obtain
new  scrip,  which  he  would  again  pledge,  and  with  the  new
advance  so  obtained  buy  yet  more  scrip,  and  so  on.  The  offer
of  the  Bank  of  England  to  make  advances  against  the  scrip
of  the  British  War  Loan  seems  to  offer  similar  facilities  to  the
British  investor.

But  there  must  be  some  limit  to  this  chain  of  progressive
borrowing.  Let  us  examine  the  question  more  closely  by  the
aid  of  an  imaginary  case.  Suppose  that  the  private  deposits  in
all  the  banks  of  a  country,  at  the  outbreak  of  war,  amount  to
£250,000,000  in  value.  The  Government  issues  a  loan  of
£250,000,000  which  is  subscribed  for  by  the  private  depositors.
The  immediate  result  is  to  transfer  the  whole  of  the  bank
deposits  of  the  country  from  the  credit  of  private  persons  to
that  of  the  Government.  The  following  month  the  Government
offers  another  loan  of  the  same  amount.  The  holders  of  the
war  loan  scrip,  following  the  plan  recommended  by  the  Wolff
Agency,  take  their  scrip  to  the  banks,  who  make  them  an  ad-
vance against  it  to  its  full  value.  We  will  suppose,  for  the  sake
of  clearness,  that  these  advances  are  made  in  the  form  of  bank-
notes, which  the  banks  have  power  to  issue.  The  position
would  be  the  same,  of  course,  if  the  advances  were  made  simply
by  the  banks  giving  credits  in  their  books,  against  which


FINANCE  IN  WAR  111

cheques  could  be  drawn  :  but  by  supposing  them  to  issue  notes
the  course  of  events  is  made  plainer.  With  these  notes  the
public  takes  up  the  second  war  loan  :  the  result  is  that  the  notes
are  immediately  redeposited  in  the  banks,  to  the  credit  of  the
Government.  The  third  month  a  further  loan  of  a  similar
amount  is  offered  and  the  process  repeated  :  and  again  the
fourth  month.  At  the  end  of  four  months  the  Government  has
borrowed  £1,000,000,000  and  there  are  £750,000,000  of  new
bank-notes  in  existence,  all  of  which,  together  with  the  original
£250,000,000  of  deposits,  lie  in  the  banks  to  the  credit  of  the
Government  (except  so  far  as  it  has  spent  that  amount).
Evidently,  except  for  the  original  £250,000,000,  what  the
Government  has  borrowed  is  a  mass  of  bank-notes  created  for
the  purpose  and  it  might  have  attained  the  same  result  in  a
less  roundabout  way,  by  simply  printing  off  the  notes  and
issuing  them  itself,  on  its  own  credit,  instead  of  inviting  the
banks  to  do  it.  It  can  use  the  notes,  if  they  are  made  legal
tender,  for  purchases  from  and  payments  to  its  own  subjects.
But  it  cannot  force  a  greater  volume  of  currency  into  circula-
tion than  the  business  of  the  country  requires.  Otherwise,  as
was  explained  above,  the  currency  will  be  depreciated  in  propor-
tion to  the  excess.  The  net  result  therefore  of  the  process  as
described  above — which  is  put  in  an  extreme  form  for  the  sake
of  illustration — is  simply  a  depreciation  of  the  currency.

Now  let  us  suppose,  what  is  more  likely  to  happen,  that  the
second  loan  is  issued  not  a  month  but  a  year  after  the  first.  By
that  time  the  Government  will  have  drawn  the  proceeds  of  the
first  loan  out  of  the  banks — still,  let  us  say,  in  the  form  of  bank-
notes— and  will  have  spent  them  on  paying  soldiers  and  officials
and  on  the  purchase  of  munitions  of  war  and  food  and  clothing
for  the  army.  The  bank-notes  given  in  payment  will  have
been  passed  from  hand  to  hand  and  will  have  found  their  way
back  again  to  the  banks.  Thus  the  volume  of  private  deposits
will  have  been  reconstituted.  When  the  Government  issues
its  second  loan,  the  reconstituted  body  of  private  depositors  will
be  able  to  take  it  up,  as  they  did  at  first,  by  transferring  their
deposits  to  the  credit  of  the  Government,  and  taking  war  loan
scrip  in  exchange.  The  volume  of  currency  will  not  have  been
inflated  at  all.     This  process  may  be  repeated  at  the  end  of


112  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

the  second  year  and  so  on.  Thus  it  would  seem  that  the
borrowing  can  be  carried  on  ad  infinitum.  But  there  are
two  limitations.  First,  there  must  be  sufficient  time  between
the  loans  to  allow  the  proceeds  of  the  first  to  be  expended
by  the  Government,  to  pass  into  the  hands  of  private  persons,
and  to  filter  back  to  the  banks,  before  the  next  loan  is  issued.
Otherwise  new  currency  in  one  form  or  another,  either  in  form
of  notes  or  credits,  will  have  to  be  created  to  take  up  the  second
loan  and  there  will  be  inflation.

The  second  limitation  is  that  the  proceeds  of  the  first  loan
must  be  so  expended  that  they  will  actually  come  back  to  the
banks  and  reconstitute  the  volume  of  private  deposits.  In
other  words,  the  services  and  material  required  for  the  war
must  all  be  obtained  from  the  country's  own  people.  It  is
plain  that  the  people  in  addition  must  be  producing  what  they
are  consuming  themselves  from  day  to  day.  Therefore  the
limitation  amounts  to  this,  that  in  order  for  the  system  of
progressive  borrowing  to  go  on  without  a  hitch,  the  nation
at  war  must  itself  produce  all  that  is  required  for  the  war  in  the
way  of  services  and  material,  over  and  above  the  necessities  of
its  daily  life.  Or  if  it  buys  any  part  of  its  war  material  from
abroad,  it  must  produce  an  equivalent  to  give  in  exchange.
If  this  condition  is  fulfilled,  the  nation  can  go  on  fighting  in-
definitely, as  far  as  finance  is  concerned,  although  no  doubt
its  capital  will  be  depreciating  the  whole  time.  The  Helfierich
method  may  in  these  conditions  be  useful,  because  it  enables
subscribers  to  the  first  loan,  who  have  not  got  their  money
back  out  of  the  Government  expenditure,  still  to  subscribe
again  to  the  second  loan,  by  the  assistance  of  the  banks.  But  it
should  be  understood  that  the  advances  which  the  banks
make  to  them,  on  the  security  of  their  scrip,  are  provided  out
of  the  volume  of  deposits  which  has  been  reconstituted  out  of
the  expenditure  of  the  first  loan,  though  the  deposits  may
now  be  in  other  names.  The  nation  is  meeting  the  cost  of  the
war  mainly  out  of  its  current  income  :  and  the  issue  of  Govern-
ment loans,  the  pledging  of  the  scrip  to  the  banks,  and  the
use  of  the  advances  so  obtained  to  subscribe  to  new  loans  are
merely  financial  machinery.

To  put  the  matter  in  another  way.     Say  that  Germany  has


FINANCE  IN  WAR  113

an  adult  male  population  of  twenty  millions,  excluding  children
and  quite  old  men.  Say  that  in  the  course  of  the  war  eight
millions  of  these  are  taken  for  military  service  and  another
two  millions  are  required  for  the  manufacture  of  war  supplies
of  every  kind.  If  the  remaining  ten  millions,  with  the  assis-
tance of  the  women  and  children  and  old  men,  can  carry  on
the  business  of  the  country,  including  not  only  production,
but  transport  and  distribution  and  services  of  every  kind,
so  as  to  supply  food  and  clothing  and  the  other  necessaries
of  life  for  the  whole  of  the  population,  combatant  and  non-
combatant,  then  Germany  can  go  on  for  an  indefinite  time,
raising  internal  loans  to  meet  her  war  expenditure  and  taking
them  up  from  her  own  resources.

But  as  soon  as  the  productive  activities  of  the  balance  of
the  people,  after  deducting  the  soldiers  and  the  armament
workers,  are  insufficient  for  this  purpose,  the  case  is  changed.
On  this  hypothesis  the  total  production  of  Germany  becomes
insufficient  to  supply  her  wants,  irrespective  of  whether  she
consumes  all  her  products  herself  or  uses  a  part  of  them  to
export  abroad  in  exchange  for  other  articles.  If  she  attempts
to  increase  her  import  of  supplies,  she  must  pay  for  them.  She
has,  by  supposition,  no  further  surplus  of  commodities,  so  that
she  cannot  pay  in  kind.  She  will  have  to  pay  by  exporting
gold,  or  by  borrowing  abroad,  or  by  giving  up  some  saleable
part  of  her  accumulated  capital.  Foreign  nations  will  not  take
paper  currency  in  payment  from  her  and  therefore  the  issue  of
bank-notes  will  not  help.

In  general  conclusion  it  may  be  stated  that  the  most  con-
venient, as  it  is  the  most  usual  way  of  meeting  war  expenditure,
is  by  means  of  Government  loans.  The  objection  to  financial
expedients  such  as  those  suggested  by  the  Wolff  Agency  is
that  they  may  lead  to  inflation  of  currency.  So  long  as  this  is
avoided  they  have  the  result  of  absorbing  the  surplus  income
and  the  floating  capital  of  the  nation  in  war  loans.

As  a  matter  of  policy  it  is  generally  desirable  that  war  loans
should  be  issued  on  a  permanent  basis  as  soon  as  possible  and
that  the  short-term  indebtedness  should  not  be  allowed  to
accumulate.  In  this  particular  respect  German  war  finance
has  been  better  managed  than  that  of  the  Allies.    Germany


114  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

has  funded  the  whole  of  her  war  expenditure  to  date  by  the
issue  of  two  great  loans.  Russia  and  France  have  piled  up  a
large  floating  debt.  It  would  certainly  make  for  financial
stability  and  would  probably  encourage  further  saving,  if
this  were  funded  by  the  issue  of  permanent  loans.  If  such  an
issue  is  successfully  made,  the  loan  passes  into  the  hands  of
investors  who  do  not  look  for  their  capital  to  be  repaid,  but  only
for  the  annual  interest.  Floating  debt,  on  the  other  hand,  in
the  form  of  Treasury  Bills  or  other  short-term  instruments,
remains  in  the  hands  of  banks  and  financial  houses,  who  have
no  intention  of  locking  up  their  capital  permanently.  The
existence  of  a  mass  of  debt  of  this  kind,  therefore,  may  cause
instability  and  uncertainty  in  the  financial  situation.  The  same
objection  applies  to  advances  made  to  the  Government  by  a
State  bank.  This  method  has  been  largely  used  by  the  French
Government,  the  advances  of  the  Bank  of  France  to  the  State
reaching  last  March  the  figure  of  over  £180,000,000.  A  further
consideration  is  that  when  private  investors  have  used  up  their
free  capital  in  subscribing  to  a  Government  loan,  they  are
more  likely  to  make  an  effort  towards  fresh  saving  than  if  they
have  large  sums  in  cash  lying  on  deposit  in  the  banks.  This
effort  will  be  all  the  stronger  if  investors  only  partly  pay  out
of  their  own  money  for  the  scrip  they  take  up,  and  borrow  the
balance  from  the  banks  :  for  then  they  work  to  clear  off  the
debt.  Thus  the  issue  of  a  State  loan  in  a  form  which  will
absorb  private  deposits  as  fast  as  they  accumulate  makes  for
industrial  thrift.  The  same  cannot  be  said  of  an  issue  of  Trea-
sury Bills.  The  banks  take  up  these  in  their  own  name :
the  deposits  are  really  absorbed,  for  the  banks  use  them  for
the  purpose  :  but  the  private  depositor  regards  his  money  as
still  lying  at  call,  and  has  not  the  same  incentive  to  save  more
as  he  would  have  if  he  had  invested  his  money  and  knew  it  was
tied  up.

III.    War  Costs  and  their  Future  Effect

Many  calculations  have  been  made  of  the  cost  of  the  war
to  Europe,  ranging  from  £10,000,000  a  day  upwards.  Some-
times the  actual  war  expenditure  of  the  different  Governments
is  taken  as  the  measure  of  cost.     Some  calculators  add  the  loss


FINANCE  IN  WAR  116

of  life  at  the  value  of  so  much  a  life.  Some  add  the  material
destruction  of  property  in  the  invaded  districts.  Some  throw
in  the  money  which  might  have  been  earned  during  the  war  by
the  armies  had  they  been  productively  employed.

The  item  of  Government  expenditure  is  a  definite  quantity
which  can  be  ascertained  with  approximate  exactness.  The
item  of  destruction  of  property  in  warfare  is  also  a  definite
quantity,  but  is  much  less  easy  to  ascertain.  The  other  items
of  loss  are  simply  conjectures.  It  is  impossible  to  say  that
all  the  soldiers  engaged  would  have  been  productively  employed;
or  that  the  loss  of  their  productive  energy  has  not  been  to  some
extent  compensated  by  increased  industry  on  the  part  of  the
non-combatant  population ;  or  that  decrease  of  production
has  not  been  partly  balanced  by  decrease  in  consumption.
Germany  will  probably  produce  less  scent  during  the  war  than
she  did  before  ;  but  if  the  consumption  of  scent  in  Germany
diminishes  to  the  same  extent,  there  will  be  no  actual  loss  of
wealth.

In  what  respects  can  a  nation  suffer  actual  diminution  of
wealth  through  war  ?  In  what  respects  will  it  actually  be
poorer  at  the  end  than  at  the  beginning  ?  We  need  not  go
into  the  question  of  the  additional  wealth  which  it  might  have
accumulated  during  the  period  of  the  war,  if  there  had  been
no  war.  In  other  words,  we  need  not  consider  the  cost  of  the
war,  so  far  as  it  has  been  defrayed  from  surplus  national  income,
but  only  so  far  as  it  has  been  defrayed  from  capital.  A  nation
may  find  itself  poorer  at  the  end  of  a  war  than  at  the  beginning
in  respect  of  one  or  more  of  the  following  : —

(a)  Reduction  of  its  liquid   assets,   e.g.,   stores,  material,

live  stock,  coin  and  bullion,  etc.,  which  have  been
consumed  in  the  war  and  not  replaced.

(b)  Loss  of  its  foreign  investments  or  any  other  saleable

assets,  which  it  has  realized  abroad  in  the  course  of  the
war  and  of  which  it  has  spent  the  proceeds.

(c)  Foreign  indebtedness  which  has  been  incurred  to  help

to  pay  for  the  war.

(d)  Depreciation    of    the    national    plant    and    equipment

through  insufficient  sums  being  spent  on  its  mainten-
ance during  the  war.


116  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

(c)  Destruction  or  damage  of  property  in  the  course  of

warlike  operations.
(/)  Reduction  of  the  national  productive  capacity  at  the
end  of  the  war  as  compared  with  the  beginning.      This
may  be  brought   about  in  several  ways,  e.g.,  by   de-
struction or  damage  of  the  machinery  of  production  and
transport ;    by  reduction  in  the  labour  force  through
slaughter  of  men  in  battle  ;  by  derangement  of  indus-
trial organization  through  its  conversion  to  the  produc-
tion of  warlike  stores,  and  through  disturbances  in  the
organization  of  labour.
The  last  two  items  are  important,  but  no  sort  of  estimate
can  be  formed  of  them  in  figures   till  the  war  is  over.    We
know  that  in  Belgium  and  Northern  France  and  Poland  and
Galicia  enormous  damage  has  been  done  to  property.     Germany
and  Great  Britain  have  suffered  some  damage  through  losses  in
their  merchant  marine.     The  industrial  organization  of  Great
Britain  and  France  and  Germany  has  been  seriously  deranged.
All  the  belligerent  nations  have  lost  a  part  of  their  labour  force
in  killed  and  maimed.

The  first  four  items  represent  that  part  of  the  national
expenditure  on  war  which  is  met  out  of  capital.  They  are
included  in  the  figures  of  Government  war  expenditure,  but
they  do  not  represent  the  whole  of  it.  For  the  Government
war  expenditure  is  partly  met  out  of  the  surplus  of  the  current
national  income.  It  is  only  the  balance  that  is  met  by  con-
sumption of  stores  in  hand  ;  by  the  realization  of  foreign
investments  ;  by  borrowing  abroad  ;  and  by  spending  on  war
money  which  should  have  been  spent  on  the  maintenance  of
the  national  plant.

We  can  ascertain  the  figures  of  Government  war  expendi-
ture at  any  rate  approximately.  If  we  could  ascertain  to
what  extent  this  expenditure  was  being  met  out  of  current
national  income,  the  balance  would  be  the  portion  of  war
expenditure  falling  on  national  capital  and  would  be  the  same
as  the  sum  total  of  the  first  four  items  of  loss  mentioned  above.
We  have  already  estimated  the  annual  income  of  Great
Britain  at  about  £2,300,000,000,  of  which  about  £400,000,000
was  estimated  to  be  surplus  income,  devoted  either  to  better-


FINANCE  IN  WAR  117

ment  of  the  national  plant  or  to  investment  abroad,  the  remain-
ing £1,900,000,000  being  spent  in  the  living  expenses  of  the
nation  and  on  maintenance  of  plant.  If  these  figures  are
taken  as  correct  and  could  be  supposed  to  hold  good  for  the
period  of  the  war,  we  might  reckon  that  Great  Britain  had  a
surplus  national  income  of  £400,000,000  and  that  by  stopping
her  foreign  investments  and  her  internal  betterments  during
war  time,  she  could  pay  for  the  war  to  this  extent  without
encroaching  on  her  accumulated  capital.  Say  that  the  British
Government  is  spending  £900,000,000  a  year  on  the  war,  includ-
ing loans  to  the  Allies  and  to  the  Dominions.  The  country  would
find  £400,000,000  of  this  amount  out  of  income  and  would  have
to  provide  the  remaining  £500,000,000  by  encroaching  on  its
capital  in  one  of  the  four  ways  mentioned  above.  A  similar
calculation  might  be  made  in  the  case  of  Germany,  whose
national  income  is  given  at  about  £2,000,000,000,  of  which
about  £400,000,000  is  surplus.

But  this  method  of  calculation  involves  two  factors  of  great
uncertainty.  The  first  is  the  extent  to  which  the  nation's
income  is  affected  by  the  war,  e.g.,  through  the  curtailment
of  its  output  of  wealth,  or  even  through  the  falling  off  of  its
income  from  foreign  investments.  It  is  impossible  to  ascer-
tain what  reduction  takes  place  from  these  causes  in  the
national  income  during  war  time.  A  second  factor,  which  is
even  more  uncertain,  is  the  extent  to  which  the  national  living
expenses  are  cut  down  during  war  time.  The  greater  the
reduction  in  these,  the  greater  the  surplus  income  ;  and  if  the
national  living  expenses  were  to  be  cut  down  by  more  than  the
reduction  in  the  national  income,  the  surplus  would  be  even
larger  than  before.  This  latter  factor  is  of  great  importance  both
in  the  case  of  Germany,  where  national  economy  in  daily  expen-
diture is  enforced  as  an  act  of  discipline,  and  in  France,  where  the
people  have  a  genius  for  thrift.  It  is  to  be  feared  that  in  Great
Britain  less  economy  is  practised  ;  on  the  other  hand,  it  is
probable  that  her  national  income  has  suffered  less  reduction
than  that  of  either  France  or  Germany.

With  these  two  factors  subject  to  so  much  variation  it  would
be  vain  to  pretend  to  draw  from  the  estimates  of  ordinary  annual
income  and  expenditure  any  definite  conclusion  about  the


118  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

surplus  income  of  a  country  in  war  time.  There  is,  however,
another  way  in  which  the  matter  may  be  approached,  and  which
may  be  a  better  guide,  in  the  case  of  Great  Britain,  as  to  the
extent  to  which  she  is  meeting  her  war  expenses  out  of  capital.

It  has  been  stated  that  in  1913  British  imports  were  valued
at  £659,000,000  and  her  exports  at  £525,000,000.  It  was
estimated  that  £190,000,000  of  the  exports  was  balanced  by
new  capital  loaned  abroad.  This  being  deducted,  the  balance
of  the  exports  was  £335,000,000.  This  was  £324,000,000  less
than  the  value  of  the  imports.  How,  then,  was  this  £324,000,000
of  imports  accounted  for  ?  According  to  the  estimate  then
made  it  represented  payments  made  to  Great  Britain  by
foreign  nations  for  :  (a)  Interest  on  capital  invested  abroad,
£184,000,000  ;  (b)  Shipping  freights,  £100,000,000  ;  (c)  Banking
commissions,  etc.,  £40,000,000.  This  estimate  is  not  far
different  from  that  made  recently  by  Mr.  Lloyd  George.  He
estimates  our  total  return  from  interest  on  investments,  freights,
etc.,  at  £350,000,000,  instead  of  the  above  figure  of  £324,000,000.

In  the  quarter  ending  March  31,  1915,  British  imports
were  £208,000,000  in  value  and  her  exports  and  re-exports
£106,000,000,  leaving  a  balance  of  £102,000,000— or  at  the
rate  of  £408,000,000  a  year  excess  of  imports  over  exports.
Mr.  Lloyd  George's  figure  is  £448,000,000,  and  we  will  take
that.  We  can  assume  that  for  the  time  being  British  lending
of  capital  abroad  has  stopped,  except  for  the  loans  made  to
the  Dominion  Governments  and  to  Allied  Governments.  Take
these  at  the  rate  of  £200,000,000  a  year — they  amounted  to
£80,000,000  last  March.  This  sum  must  be  added  to  the
balance  of  imports  over  exports,  which  is  thus  increased  to
£648,000,000  in  the  year,  if  the  first  quarter  is  taken  as  a
guide,  although  a  part  of  the  loans  already  made  may  appear
in  the  form  of  exports  during  the  first  quarter.  To  meet  this  we
have  the  foreign  dividends,  shipping  freights  and  commissions,
which  Mr.  Lloyd  George  leaves  at  £350,000,000.  Deducting
£350,000,000  from  £648,000,000  still  leaves  a  balance  of  about
£300,000,000  to  be  paid  for.  How  is  this  being  done  ?  It
must  be  by  the  realization  of  British  capital  invested  abroad.
There  is  no  other  way,  unless  Great  Britain  were  borrowing
abroad,  which  she  is  not,  or  were  to  manage  to  reduce  her


FINANCE  IN  WAR  119

normal  imports.  We  may  assume,  therefore,  that  Great
Britain  in  the  process  of  paying  for  the  war  will  have  to  realize
on  her  foreign  investments  at  the  rate  of  about  £300,000,000
sterling  a  year.

As  an  instance  of  the  way  this  is  done,  take  the  City  of
New  York  Note  issue  of  $100,000,000  (i.e.,  about  £20,000,000),
which  fell  due  last  autumn.  This  was  largely  held  in  London
and  in  peace  time  no  doubt  the  loan  would  have  been  renewed
in  one  form  or  another.  As  it  was,  it  was  called  in  and  paid  off,
the  funds  being  supplied  by  a  syndicate  of  New  York  Bankers:
Again,  London  has  in  ordinary  times  a  great  deal  of  money  out
*  abroad  in  the  form  of  short-term  loans,  bills  or  credits.  Since
war  started,  there  has  been  a  steady  pressure  to  call  these  in
wherever  it  was  possible.  Above  all,  British  investors  hold  a
huge  mass  of  foreign  stocks,  shares  and  bonds.  By  no  means  all
of  them  are  saleable  in  war  time.  But  among  them  are  Ameri-
can securities  estimated  to  amount  to  perhaps  £1,000,000,000
in  value.  These  or  the  great  part  of  them  are  saleable  in  New
York  and  are  actually  being  sold  all  the  time.  America  sends
the  purchase  price  over  to  Great  Britain  in  the  form  of  com-
modities and  in  this  way  the  extra  balance  of  imports  is
accounted  for.  •

According  to  Mr.  Lloyd  George's  statement  in  the  House
of  Commons,  the  total  expenditure  of  the  British  Government,
if  the  war  lasts  another  year,  will  during  that  year  be  about
£1,130,000,000.  Of  this  approximately  £200,000,000  will
be  current  expenditure,  leaving  our  actual  war  expenditure
at  £930,000,000  for  the  year,  of  which  £200,000,000  will  repre-
sent loans  to  our  Allies.  We  have  seen  above  that  the  nation
in  paying  for  this  will  have  to  realize  its  foreign  investments
at  the  rate  of  £300,000,000  a  year.  This  leaves  £630,000,000
to  be  provided  for.

We  can  assume  that  in  war  time  the  nation  has  stopped  its
ordinary  foreign  loans — the  special  Government  loans  have
been  allowed  for — and  also  its  expenditure  on  internal  better-
ments. In  peace  time  it  spends  £400,000,000  a  year  in  these
two  directions.  The  diversion  of  this  sum  to  meet  the  war
expenditure  still  leaves  a  balance  of  £230,000,000.  Assuming
that  the  national  income  and  living  expenditure  remain  the


120  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

same — or,  at  any  rate,  that  there  is  the  same  margin  between
them  as  in  peace  time — this  sum  of  £230,000,000  is  being
provided  by  Great  Britain  out  of  her  internal,  as  distinguished
from  her  foreign,  capital.  That  is,  it  is  being  provided  either
by  consuming  accumulated  stocks  and  not  replacing  them,
or  by  cutting  down  the  ordinary  annual  expenditure  on  main-
tenance of  the  national  plant.  If  the  margin  between  the
national  income  and  living  expenditure  is  greater  or  less  now
than  in  peace  time — that  is,  if  the  surplus  income  of  the  nation
is  greater  or  less  than  the  £400,000,000  which  was  given  as  its
normal  figure,  the  balance  of  the  war  expenditure  to  be  provided
out  of  internal  capital  will  fall  below  or  rise  above  the  figure  of
£230,000,000.  But  in  any  case  we  can  conclude  from  the
figures  given  that  Great  Britain  is  providing  for  the  war  out
of  her  external  capital,  e.g.,  her  foreign  investments,  at  the
rate  of  about  £300,000,000  annually.  If  the  margin  between
national  income  and  national  expenditure  is  not  so  large  as
the  figures  given  above,  she  will  either  have  to  increase  still
more  the  sale  of  her  securities  or  raise  foreign  loans.

We  do  not  know  what  the  German  Government  is  spending
on  the  war.  We  know  that  up  to  date  it  has  issued  two
war  loans  amounting  in  the  aggregate  to  over  £650,000,000.
No  doubt  Germany  is  financing  both  Austria  and  Turkey  to
some  extent.  She  has  borrowed  £2,000,000  in  America  by  an
issue  of  Treasury  Notes.  Germans  are  also  selling  their  foreign
investments.  The  total  value  of  these  has  been  estimated  at
£1,000,000,000  sterling.  Many  of  them,  e.g.,  Turkish  invest-
ments and  many  South  American  investments,  are  not  sale-
able at  present.  But  Germany  holds  a  not  inconsiderable
amount  of  American  securities,  and,  since  war  began,  has  been
selling  these  steadily.  The  total  amount  sold  is  uncertain.
An  American  authority  has  estimated  that  the  stocks  sold  on
German  account  in  America  during  the  first  eight  months  of
the  war  amounted  to  more  than  £20,000,000  in  value  and  less
than  £40,000,000.

But  Germany,  as  Mr.  Lloyd  George  has  pointed  out,  is  in  a
different  position  from  this  country.  She  is  selling  very  little
abroad.  But  she  is  buying  little  too.  Her  exports  and
imports  are  strangled.    The  fact  that  the  exchanges  are  heavily


FINANCE  IN  WAR  121

against  her  is  nevertheless  an  indication  that  she  has  difficulty
in  meeting  her  external  engagements.  Apart  from  the  handi-
cap to  her  military  operations,  which  we  may  hope  will  sooner
or  later  become  exceedingly  heavy,  it  is  imdoubtcdly  an  advan-
tage, financially,  not  to  have  to  buy  from  abroad.  The  greatest
difficulties  which  face  the  Allies  in  the  financial  sphere  are  those
connected  with  meeting  their  external  obligations.

So  far  as  internal  loans  are  concerned,  Germany,  it  must
be  remembered,  gains  by  her  large  population.  If  a  loan  of
£400,000,000  is  to  be  raised,  the  average  subscriptions  of
70,000,000  people  need  not  be  nearly  as  large  as  the  average
subscriptions  of  45,000,000  people.

French  investments  abroad  have  been  estimated  at
£1,500,000,000,  but  are  probably  larger.  A  large  portion  of
them,  however,  lies  in  Russia  and  cannot  be  sold  at  the  present
time,  since  there  is  no  one  to  buy.  The  same  applies  to  her
Mexican,  Brazilian  and  Argentine  investments.  She  holds  less
American  securities  than  Germany — far  less  than  England —
and  these  are  almost  the  only  securities  which  can  be  sold  in
any  quantity,  while  the  war  lasts.

France,  therefore,  is  faced  with  a  task  of  no  little  difficulty
in  having  to  meet  the  very  large  external  obligations  which
she  is  incurring,  especially  as  her  export  trade  is  naturally
suffering  very  heavily.

Russia's  problem  is  equally,  if  not  more,  difficult.  For
Russia  is  in  ordinary  times  a  debtor  nation,  and  has  normally
to  pay  very  large  sums  abroad  in  interest  on  her  debt.  She
is  now  in  the  position  in  which  she  must  buy  heavily  from
abroad  and  at  the  same  time  is  restricted  by  her  geographical
position  from  exporting  her  raw  materials.

It  is  for  these  reasons  that  England  will  have  to  find  large
sums  of  money  for  her  Allies.

An  indication  of  the  extent  to  which  the  United  States
is  financing  the  war  through  the  repurchase  of  its  own  securities
from  the  belligerent  countries,  may  be  obtained  from  the
trade  figures  of  that  country.  In  the  four  months  ending
March  31  last  the  exports  of  the  United  States  exceeded  the
imports  in  value  by  $595,000,000,  that  is  £119,000,000.  This
is  at  the  rate  of  £357,000,000  a  year.    The  average  excess  of


122  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

United  States  exports  over  imports  for  three  years  before  the
war  was  about  £100,000,000.  At  present,  therefore,  there  is
an  abnormal  excess  of  exports  at  the  rate  of  about  £257,000,000
a  year.  It  may  be  assumed  that  with  this  excess  of  exports
the  United  States  is  buying  back  American  securities  from  the
belligerent  nations.

Mr.  Lloyd  George  said  in  Parliament  that  for  the  year
ending  December  31,  1915,  the  war  expenditure  of  the  Allies
would  not  fall  far  short  of  £2,000,000,000.  This  implies  that
Great  Britain,  France  and  Russia  will  on  the  average  each
be  spending  at  the  rate  of  between  £600,000,000  and
£700,000,000  a  year  on  the  war.  Mr.  Lloyd  George  indicated
that  Great  Britain  would  be  spending  from  £100,000,000  to
£160,000,000  a  year  more  than  either  of  the  other  two.  Let
us  assume  that  the  war  lasts  for  two  years.  At  the  end  of
that  time  we  may  expect  to  see  Great  Britain  with  an  addition
to  her  national  debt  of,  say,  £1,400,000,000,  and  France  and
Russia  each  with  an  additional  debt  of  £1,200,000,000.  Ger-
many has  raised  over  £650,000,000  in  nine  months- — that  is  at
the  rate  of  £1,800,000,000  in  the  two  years,  part  of  which  no
doubt  may  be  on  account  of  Austria.  The  total  increase  in
the  indebtedness  of  the  two  countries  will  certainly  not  be
short  of  £2,200,000,000.  Leaving  out  of  account  the  smaller
Powers  involved,  that  means  a  total  increase  in  the  national
debts  of  the  five  Great  Powers  amounting  to  £6,000,000,000
in  all.

As  far  as  Great  Britain,  France  and  Germany  are  con-
cerned, their  new  debts  will  be  owing  mainly,  if  not  entirely,
to  their  own  nationals.  A  proportion  of  the  new  Russian  debt
will  probably  be  held  in  France  and  England,  while  a  part  of  the
Austrian  share  of  new  debt  will  be  held  in  Germany.

British  investors  will  own  £1,400,000,000  of  British  Govern-
ment loan,  probably  a  substantial  amount  of  Russian  loan,
perhaps  some  French  loan.  On  the  other  hand,  they  wiU  have
disposed  of  at  least  £500,000,000  and  perhaps  much  more  of
their  holding  of  foreign,  principally  American,  investments.
German  investors  will  hold  £2,000,000,000  of  new  German  and
Austrian  loan  and  will  have  disposed  of  all  their  saleable
American  investments.    French  investors  will  own  the  greater


FINANCE  IN  WAR  123

part,  if  not  all,  of  the  £1,200,000,000  of  new  French  loan  and
a  part  of  the  new  Russian  debt,  and  will  probably  have  sold
all  of  their  foreign  investments  for  which  they  can  find  a
market.

The  United  States,  which  by  the  export  of  food,  raw  materials
and  manufactured  supplies  to  Europe  at  high  prices  is  piling
up  a  huge  credit  balance,  will  have  taken  payment  for  this
by  cancelling  its  former  loans  abroad  and  by  buying  back
American  stock  and  bonds  from  Europe  ;  to  a  smaller  extent
perhaps  it  will  settle  the  balances  by  making  direct  loans  in  one
form  or  another  to  some  or  all  of  the  combatant  countries.  It
will  have  bought  back  American  stocks  to  the  extent  probably
of  at  least  £600,000,000.

In  Great  Britain  the  national  plant  and  equipment  will
probably  have  suffered  by  the  cessation  of  expenditure  on
maintenance.  As  we  saw  above,  it  seems  certain  that  even  at
the  present  moment  Great  Britain  is  paying  part  of  her  war
expenditure  by  cutting  down  the  amount  which  she  spends  on
the  maintenance  of  her  national  plant  in  time  of  peace.

France  and  Germany  will  suffer  in  this  way  still  more,  since
they  have  not,  to  the  same  extent  as  Great  Britain  has,  the
opportunity  of  paying  by  realization  of  foreign  investments
for  that  part  of  their  war  expenditure  which  must  be  pro-
vided out  of  national  capital.  On  the  other  hand,  Germany
is  likely  to  gain,  at  any  rate  over  this  country,  by  the  greater,
probably  far  greater,  economy  of  her  people.

In  all  the  districts  invaded  by  the  enemy  there  will  be  a
large  amount  of  actual  destruction  to  repair.  The  making
good  of  this  and  of  the  deterioration  in  the  national  plants
will  require  a  large  immediate  expenditure,  part  of  which,
at  any  rate,  will  have  to  be  found  by  the  Governments  con-
cerned.

In  all  the  belligerent  countries  there  will  be  an  inflation
of  paper  currency,  owing  to  the  greater  use  of  currency  in
war  time.  This  surplus  currency  will  have  to  be  redeemed,
this  constituting  another  addition  to  the  war  debt.  If  it  is
allowed  to  remain  in  circulation,  after  it  ceases  to  be  required,
a  depreciation  of  the  currency  will  follow,  with  the  evils  which
ordinarily  attend  it.    The  excess  paper  currency  might  indeed


124  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

be  allowed  to  remain  in  circulation  without  harm,  if  the  nations
concerned  were  prepared  to  substitute  it  for  their  metallic  cur-
rency. But  it  is  more  than  doubtful  if  they  can  do  this,  and
even  if  they  could,  the  rest  of  the  world  would  not  be  able  to
absorb  the  precious  metals  which  would  be  given  up.

Special  provision  will  have  to  be  made  for  the  reconstitution
of  Belgium.  Regard  being  had  to  this,  as  weU  as  to  the  other
items  mentioned  above,  it  is  a  moderate  calculation  to  say  that
the  addition  to  the  debts  of  the  five  Great  Powers  at  the  end
of  two  years'  war  will  reach  a  total  of  £7,000,000,000.  At  five
per  cent  this  means  an  annual  interest  charge  of  £350,000,000  a
year.  Beyond  this  there  will  be  pension  charges,  which  on  the
most  modest  scale  can  hardly  amount  to  less  than  £100,000,000
a  year  for  the  five  countries.  In  all,  the  additional  revenue
required  to  meet  the  direct  charges  arising  out  of  the  war  wiU
thus  amount  to  £450,000,000  annually,  divided  among  the
five  leading  nations.  How  far  these  nations  will  be  able  to
raise  this  additional  revenue,  and  at  the  same  time  maintain
their  former  scale  of  civil  and  military  expenditure,  is  a  matter
which  it  is  beyond  the  scope  of  this  article  to  discuss.

The  inflation  of  currency — for  redemption  is  not  likely
to  be  immediate — and  the  scarcity  of  goods — for  the  output
of  articles  useful  for  peace  must  for  some  time  after  the  end
of  war  be  less  than  in  normal  times — will  cause  high  prices  to
prevail.  But  the  recuperative  powers  of  the  modern  indus-
trial system  are  very  great.  With  the  machinery  and  methods
now  in  use  production  can  and  will  be  rapidly  increased.  The
prevalence  of  high  prices  will  be  a  stimulus  to  this.  On  the  other
hand,  high  taxation  will  enforce  economy  in  consumption.
High  interest  rates  on  capital  will  add  to  the  burden  which
industry  will  have  to  carry,  a  burden  which  after  a  time  will
begin  to  be  severely  felt.

As  the  pendulum  always  swings  too  far,  it  is  to  be  expected
that  the  machinery  of  production  will  not  only  be  replaced
but  extended,  and  that  the  years  of  replacement  wiU  be  followed
by  an  era  of  over-production,  low  prices  and  financial  col-
lapse.

In  these  matters,  however,  the  course  of  affairs  can  only
be  guessed  at.    The  probability  is  that  there  will  be  a  time


FINANCE  IN  WAR  125

of  rapid  ebb  and  flow  in  financial  matters.  This  would  natur-
ally be  accompanied  with  occasional  crashes.  Up  to  the
present  the  machinery  of  credit,  through  which  the  world's
business  is  conducted,  seems  to  have  been  wonderfully  little
disturbed  by  the  war  and  has  shown  itself  capable  of  quicker
adaptation  than  could  have  been  believed.  It  does  not
follow,  however,  that  this  state  of  things  will  continue,  and  it
must  be  remembered  that  the  machinery  of  credit,  which  is
mainly  psychological,  is  just  as  essential  to  the  conduct  of
trade  and  the  material  well-being  of  the  world  as  the  machinery
of  production  or  the  machinery  of  transportation.

One  factor  which  must  not  be  left  out  of  account  is  the
possibility  of  social  unrest  and  labour  troubles  arising  after
the  war.  It  is  difficult  to  say  in  what  state  of  mind  the  popu-
lations of  Europe  will  be  left.  It  has  been  suggested  that  the
war  may  produce  a  spirit  of  earnestness.  But  by  bringing
a  mass  of  men  close  to  the  primitive  facts  of  life  it  may  also
awaken  the  spirit  which  questions  existing  conventions  ;  and
the  modern  industrial  system,  like  any  other  system  of  organi-
zation, depends  on  the  great  majority  of  mankind  accepting
established  conventions  without  question.

On  the  other  side,  again,  it  is  possible  that  the  desire  to  repair
material  losses  may  be  a  governing  factor  in  men's  minds  for
some  years  and  may  prevent  agitation  towards  new  social
experiments.  The  chances  for  this  are  better  in  a  country
where  property  is  widely  distributed  such  as  France,  than  in  a
country  where  the  mass  of  the  population  own  nothing  and
live  entirely  by  their  labour  from  day  to  day.

In  the  building  up  of  industry  after  the  war  Germany  will
have  an  advantage  from  the  docility  with  which  her  people
submit  to  organization  for  a  given  end.  Great  Britain,  which
has  no  advantage  on  either  point,  will  have  to  trust  to  the
common-sense  of  her  people  and  to  the  individual  energy  and
initiative  which  are  found  here  more  often  than  elsewhere  and
which  in  industrial  matters  compensate  for  many  weaknesses.

IV.    The  Government's  Duty

The  foregoing  analysis  brings  into  prominence  the  huge
magnitude  of  the  financial  task  imposed  upon  this  country


126  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

and  the  vital  necessity  both  the  Government  and  every  member
of  the  community  are  under,  of  leaving  nothing  undone  which
may  in  any  way  contribute  to  its  proper  fulfilment.

Let  us  repeat  the  facts.  Unlike  Germany,  which  is  more
self-supporting,  France,  Russia  and  Great  Britain  are  purchas-
ing and  must  purchase  from  abroad  supplies  of  all  kinds  in
enormous  quantities  ;  Great  Britain  and  France  must  pur-
chase food  supplies  and  raw  materials  ;  all  three  countries
must  purchase  munitions  of  every  kind  and  particularly  shells
in  ever-increasing  quantities.  The  huge  bill  to  the  countries
from  which  these  materials  are  bought,  must  be  paid  for.  It
can  be  paid  for  only  by  the  export  of  goods,  or  by  turning  over
to  these  countries  the  interest  due  on  foreign  investments,
or  the  freight  and  commission  earned  or  by  the  sale  of  foreign
investments  or  by  raising  foreign  loans  or  by  shipping  bullion.

Russia's  export  trade  is  practically  stopped  ;  she  has  no
foreign  investments  ;  she  earns  very  little  freight  or  commission  ;
she  has  very  large  sums  already  to  pay  to  other  countries  for
interest  on  Government  loans  ;  there  are  great  difficulties  in
her  raising  a  loan  in  the  United  States  ;  there  is  left  only  this
country  to  which  she  can  turn.

France's  export  trade,  too,  is  enormously  impeded  ;  she
has  not  a  very  large  amount  of  foreign  securities  of  a  class
which  can  now  be  sold  ;  she,  too,  must  therefore  look  to  us
for  assistance  in  meeting  her  external  engagements.  Mr.
Lloyd  George  puts  our  loans  to  our  Dominions  and  Allies
at  £200,000,000.  Before  the  end  of  the  war  it  may  be  much
larger.

What,  then,  is  the  position  of  the  country.  It  was  shown
above  that  on  the  basis  of  the  figures  now  available,  and  after
making  liberal  and  even  optimistic  deductions  in  respect  of
our  earnings  in  the  way  of  interest  on  foreign  investments,
shipping  freights  and  commissions,  we  shall  have  a  balance
against  us  of  £300,000,000  this  year,  which  must  be  met  by
the  sale  of  foreign  investments.  This  will  be  difficult,  and  in
time  to  come  may  become  impossible.  A  further  alternative  is
to  raise  a  large  loan  in  the  United  States.  There  are  great  diffi-
culties here  too,  and  in  any  case  only  a  certain  amount  could  be
raised.


FINANCE  IN  WAR  127

There  is  one  other  way,  and  one  only,  by  which  the  balance
against  us  can  be  reduced,  and  that  is  by  most  rigid  economy
throughout  the  whole  community — such  economy  as  is  now
being  practised  by  the  German  people.  Every  pound's  worth
of  food  wasted  means  a  pound's  more  import,  a  pound  more  in
the  bill  against  this  country  and  probably  a  pound  more  of  our
vital  gold  reserve  exported.  But  while  waste  is  unpardonable,
to  stop  mere  waste  is  not  enough.  We  ought  to  import  only
absolute  necessities,  either  munitions  of  war,  or  raw  material
for  our  exports,  or  food  and  other  supplies  which  we  can  by  no
means  dispense  with.  Let  us  repeat  that  every  pound's  worth
unnecessarily  imported  is  so  much  added  to  our  burden,  reduces
by  so  much  the  money  available  for  subscribing  to  Government
loans,  contributes  by  so  much  to  the  difficulty  of  keeping  our
gold  reserve  and  our  system  of  credit  intact,  and  makes  it  by
so  much  harder  and  more  expensive  to  attain  our  vital  supplies
of  ammunition.  The  more  difficult  it  is  to  pay  our  debts,  the
more  the  exchanges  will  go  against  us,  and  the  more  we  must
pay  for  all  our  imports.  Russia  is  at  this  moment  paying  20  per
cent  higher  than  normal  for  everything  she  is  buying  abroad  :
and  Germany  almost  as  much.

It  is  the  duty  pf  the  Government  to  bring  these  facts  home
plainly  to  every  citizen  of  this  country.  There  is  too  much
extravagance  and  waste  both  by  private  individuals  and  by
the  Government ;  there  have  been  in  the  past  mischievous  ideas
spread  abroad  about  the  country's  "  bottomless  purse  "  i  the
high  wages  now  being  paid  are  a  direct  incentive  to  spending.
The  Government  would  perform  a  great  work  if  they  could  by
some  means  encourage  and  popularize  the  investment  of  savings.
It  should  be  recognized  by  every  man  and  woman  in  the  country
that  rigid  economy  is  vital  in  order  that  the  country  may  be
able  both  to  pay  its  debts  abroad  and  subscribe  successfully
to  the  enormous  loans  which  will  have  to  be  raised  in  this  coun-
try. Not  the  least  valuable  service  that  can  be  rendered  to  our
cause  is  the  practice  of  economy,  and  that  service  can  be  rendered
by  every  man  and  every  woman  of  whatever  age  and  strength.


ENGLAND'S  FINANCIAL  TASK

(September,  1915)

I.  England  and  Germany  :   An  Allegory

Once  upon  a  time  there  were  two  rich  men  who  fell  into  a
dispute  as  to  the  nature  of  wealth  and  which  of  them  was  the
richer.  They  both  possessed  large  estates  of  land,  mines,  and
factories,  and  both  had  many  retainers  and  employees.  But
there  was  this  difference  between  them.  The  one  had  the
bigger  estate  and  more  than  one-third  more  the  number  of
employees  ;  the  other  had  a  smaller  estate  and  fewer  employees,
but  he  had  inherited  from  his  father  great  personal  wealth  in
the  form  of  investments  and  securities  of  all  kinds,  on  the
income  from  which  he  had  been  accustomed  to  live  very
comfortably.  The  first  man  claimed  he  was  the  richer,  beeau£e
he  had  a  larger  estate  and  more  servants  ;  the  second  because
while  his  estate  was  smaller,  he  had  always  had  a  larger  income
to  spend  than  the  first.  They  decided  to  settle  the  dispute  in
a  peculiar  way.  They  agreed  to  enter  upon  a  shooting  com-
petition. Whichever  could  shoot  away  most  shot  and  shell
for  the  longest  time  in  his  park  without  exhausting  his  resources
was  to  be  adjudged  the  richer.  One  condition,  however,  was
agreed  upon.  Since  the  first  man  had  much  the  larger  estate
he  was  to  find,  if  he  could,  within  his  estate  all  the  materials
for  his  guns  and  shells  ;  whereas  the  other,  with  the  smaller
estate,  was  free  to  buy  materials,  if  he  could,  from  his  neigh-
bours.

The  first  man,  realizing  that  he  must  rely  wholly  on  his  own
resources — for  he  knew  that  his  estate  could  do  no  more  than
produce  the  barest  necessities  of  life  for  himseH  and  his  cm-

128


ENGLAND'S  FINANCIAL  TASK  129

ployees,  if  at  the  same  time  it  were  to  produce  also  a  sufficient
quantity  of  guns  and  shells — arranged  immediately  that  all  his
employees  should  be  turned  on  to  producing  either  guns  and
shells  or  the  necessaries  of  life.  There  were  many  who  were,
in  normal  times,  producing  comforts  and  luxuries  for  himself
or  attending  to  the  estate  in  one  way  or  another.  Every  one
of  them  was  turned  on  to  shell-making.  It  is  true  that  this
meant  that  the  estate  went  largely  to  ruin.  No  improvements
were  made  ;  no  fences,  gates,  buildings,  or  roads  repaired  ;
life  became  harder  and  harder  for  those  living  on  the  estate.
But  they  were  accustomed  to  obedience  and  discipline,  and
they  did  not  grumble.  Meanwhile,  by  dint  of  all — men,
women,  and  children — working  their  hardest,  they  produced
just  enough  to  live  on  and  clothe  themselves  with,  while  all
the  rest  of  their  energies  were  devoted  to  making  guns  and
shells  for  their  employer.  The  latter  had  only  one  doubt  in  his
mind.  Could  the  estate  continue  to  find  indefinitely  all  the
raw  materials  necessary  to  make  the  guns  and  shells  required  ?
If  it  could,  then  it  was  clear  to  him  that  the  length  of  time  he
could  last  out  would  depend  wholly  on  the  spirit  and  deter-
mination of  his  people,  on  their  willingness  to  go  on  producing
guns  and  shells,  and  on  their  readiness  to  undergo  privations.

The  second  man  proceeded  on  a  different  plan.  He  was
quite  certain  from  the  start  that  he  could  easily  win.  He
had  always  been  so  much  richer  than  his  competitor.  The
latter  had  never  had  much  spare  capital,  and  had  always  put
whatever  money  he  made  back  into  his  estate  ;  while  he,  on  the
contrary,  had  always  had  money  to  spend  on  his  own  and  his
employees'  comforts  and  even  to  lend  to  his  neighbours.  Be-
sides, he  thought  himself  very  clever  at  having  made  the
condition  that  his  competitor  must  buy  nothing  from  his
neighbours.  He  did  not  believe  all  the  necessary  materials
could  be  found  on  the  estate.  If  his  belief  was  correct,  he  must
undoubtedly  win.

He  did  not,  therefore,  at  first  trouble  to  disturb  the  ordinary
way  of  life  of  more  of  his  men  than  he  could  help.  He  did
not  think  it  either  necessary  or  desirable  to  cut  them  down  to
the  bare  necessities  of  life  like  his  competitor  or  to  stop  the
ordinary  work  of  keeping  up  and  repairing  the  estate.     His


130  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

men  had  always  been  used  to  good  living,  and  it  might  be  too
sudden  a  change  for  them  to  bear  cheerfully.

A  good  many  of  his  men  were,  therefore,  stiU  employed  on
the  usual  work  of  the  estate  and  also  on  making  a  thousand
and  one  things,  not  necessary  indeed  to  life,  but  still  comforts
to  which  he  and  his  people  were  accustomed.  This  meant,
of  course,  that  while  his  estate  was  kept  up  and  life  went  on
as  usual,  the  number  of  men  he  could  turn  on  to  making  guns
and  shells  was  reduced.  This,  however,  did  not  trouble  him,
since  he  intended  to  buy  from  his  neighbours  more  than  enough
to  make  up.  He  was  always  accustomed  to  trade  largely  with
his  neighbours  and  to  exchange  a  large  portion  of  the  produce
of  his  estate  with  their  produce.  He  continued  to  do  so
now,  and,  in  fact,  bought  more  and  more  largely  from  them,
not  only  guns  and  shells,  but  everything  else.  This  he  did  not
find  quite  so  easy  to  do  as  usual,  since,  although  not  nearly
to  the  same  extent  as  his  competitor,  he  had  had  to  turn  a
good  many  of  his  men  off  their  ordinary  productive  work  on
to  gun  and  shell  making,  and  therefore  he  had  not  as  much
produce  as  usual  to  exchange  with  his  neighbours.  But  this,
too,  did  not  trouble  him.  He  had  a  very  large  number  of
stocks  and  shares  which  his  father  had  left  him,  and,  though
he  was  sorry  to  part  with  them,  he  intended  to  sell  them
gradually  to  his  neighbours  and  so  find  for  a  long  time  to  come
the  money  he  wanted.

Time  flowed  by.  It  seemed  that  his  competitor's  estate  was
somehow  providing  all  the  material  necessary.  It  had  become
a  regular  arsenal.  There  was  no  one  who  was  not  engaged  in
either  making  clothes,  guns,  or  shells,  or  in  growing  foodstufi's.
The  competition  was  going  to  be  longer  than  he  thought.
But  what  with  his  own  guns  and  shells  and  those  he  was  buying
abroad,  he  would  certainly,  he  thought,  have  as  many  as  his
opponent.  Gradually,  however,  it  became  evident  that  things
were  not  going  to  turn  out  exactly  as  he  had  expected.  He
found  that  a  lot  of  his  stocks  and  shares  were  not  the  kind  his
neighbours  wanted  to  buy.  Meanwhile  he  had  ordered  from
them  enormous  quantities  of  guns  and  shells  and  had,  unfor-
tunately, actually  increased  the  amount  he  usually  bought
from  them  in  the  way  of  food  and  articles  of  luxury.    He  began


ENGLAND'S  FINANCIAL  TASK  131

to  wonder  what  he  would  be  able  to  offer  them  in  exchange,  if
his  opponent  was  to  manage  to  go  on  for  a  long  time.  His
estate  was  producing  less,  not  more,  since  many  of  his  men
were  shell-making,  and  although  he  had  still  much  wealth  he
had  not  disposed  of,  he  could  fore  see  the  time  when  he  would
have  come  to  the  end  of  his  saleable  securities.  His  neigh-
bours would  then  certainly  make  difficulties  about  supplying
him.  They  would  not  give  him  their  goods  before  actually
receiving  his  in  return  and  would  refuse  to  give  him  credit.
He  thought  of  asking  them  to  make  arrangements  whereby
they  should  wait  until  after  the  competition  was  over  for  pay-
ment, but  he  was  not  sure  whether  they  would  agree  to  trust
him  so  far,  since  both  he  and  his  opponent  were  obviously
squandering  their  wealth  in  an  absurd  manner.  What  was
he  to  do  ?  He  still  beheved  his  opponent  would  before  long
run  out  of  raw  materials  and  would  get  so  disturbed  about
the  neglect  of  his  estate  as  to  want  to  stop.  But  he  could  not
rely  on  that.  Meanwhile  his  own  employees  were  not  pro-
ducing enough  shells  by  themselves  to  keep  up  the  com-
petition. Nor  was  his  estate  capable  of  producing  enough
food  by  itseK  alone  for  the  livelihood  of  his  employees.  He
had  not  insisted  on  increasing  the  production  of  his  estate,
because  it  had  always  seemed  simpler  to  buy  from  his  neigh-
bours. It  would  be  awkward  now,  if  he  were  pushed  for  the
means  to  buy  what  he  wanted.  He  might  at  a  pinch  always
have  enough  produce  to  exchange  to  buy  the  food  he  must
have.  But  would  there  be  enough  to  buy  shells  as  well  ?
Obviously,  if  he  went  on  as  he  was,  and  the  time  came  suddenly
when  he  could  buy  no  more  guns  and  shells  from  his  neigh-
bours, he  would  be  in  trouble.  He  must  clearly  make  a  change.
He  must  insist  on  all  his  employees  consuming  as  little  of  the
produce  of  the  estate  as  possible.  They  must  live  on  the  barest
necessities,  in  order  that  he  might  have  more  over  to  exchange
with  his  neighbours  for  the  things  he  must  have  for  them.
He  must  take  off  their  work  all  the  men  who  were  engaged  in
producing  things  which  were  not  absolutely  necessary,  and
put  them  on  to  making  shells  or  increasing  the  production  of
food  or  cloth.  If  he  had  started  earlier  he  could  have  dene  all
this  more  easily.    It  was  not  yet  too  late,  though  much  valuable


132  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

time  was  lost.  But  all  depended  on  whether  his  employees
were  ready  so  drastically  to  change  their  mode  of  life,  and
to  suffer  and  to  continue  to  suffer  the  hardships  and  privations
which  were  bound  to  follow.  On  that  and  that  alone  every-
thing hung.  It  was  clear  that,  if  the  struggle  were  to  be  pro-
longed to  the  point  of  exhaustion,  wealth  would  be  measured
and  victory  determined  not  only  by  material  resources,  but
by  energy,  singleness  of  mind,  abstinence,  and  endurance.

II.    The  Two  Financial  Problems

The  war  is  becoming  a  war  of  exhaustion.  As  each  month
goes  by  the  financial  aspect  of  the  war  and  its  financial  and
economic  results  will  come  more  and  more  into  prominence.
The  balance  will  incline  more  and  more  in  favour  of  those
countries  whose  resources  are  greatest,  which  can  find  to  the
largest  extent  within  themselves  the  means  of  sustaining  the
struggle,  and  which  have  learnt  by  seK-discipline  and  organiza-
tion to  direct  all  their  national  energies  at  the  highest  pressure
towards  the  objects  of  the  war,  to  eschew  all  production  and
all  expenditure,  whether  national  or  personal,  which  tends  to
divert  energies  and  savings  away  from  national  ends  towards
meeting  the  mere  luxuries,  the  comforts  and  unessential  wants
of  individual  citizens.  All  the  nations  at  war  are  growing
rapidly  poorer.  A  nation  cannot,  any  more  than  an  individual,
continue  for  ever  in  reckless  and  wasteful  expenditure.  Yet
for  a  self-contained  nation,  which  can  produce  enough  to
meet  at  least  the  barest  wants  of  the  civilian  population  and
to  provide  munitions  of  war,  complete  exhaustion  can  be  long
postponed.  A  nation  which  is  not  self-contained  is  in  a
different  case.  If  it  must  buy  from  abroad,  it  must  pay  for
what  it  buys  in  something  which  the  selling  nations  value,
whether  goods,  gold,  or  securities.  If  it  can  produce  exports
to  pay  for  its  imports,  or  if  it  can  find  liquid  and  saleable
capital,  such  as  its  holding  of  foreign  securities,  sufficient  to
meet  its  debts,  well  and  good.  If  it  cannot,  the  time  wiU
soon  come  when  it  will  be  difficult  and  may  become  impossible
for  it  to  purchase  from  abroad.  It  wiU  then  be  faced  by  the
question  whether  it  can  by  an  economic  revolution,  both
industrial  and  agricultural,  compel  itseK  to  produce  within


ENGLAND'S  FINANCIAL  TASK  133

its  own  borders  aU  or  nearly  all  it  wants  to  maintain  the  struggle.
Such  a  revolution  has  been  forced  by  our  Fleet  upon  Germany
and  Austria.  Economic  and  financial  stress  is  bringing  face
to  face  with  it  more  than  one  of  the  Allies.

The  financial  problems  before  all  the  belligerents  are,  speak-
ing broadly,  identical.  The  first  concerns  particularly  the
respective  Governments.  They  are  incurring  huge  expen-
diture ;  their  credit  is  being  more  and  more  strained  ;  how
are  they  to  raise  from  their  people  the  immense  sums  required  ?
The  second  concerns  the  financial  position  of  each  nation  as
a  whole,  including  its  Government,  in  relation  to  other  nations.
Most  belHgerent  nations,  the  Allies  to  an  enormously  greater
degree  than  their  opponents,  are  buying  from  foreign  countries
far  more  than  they  can  pay  for  by  the  ordinary  means  at  their
disposal.  They  usually  pay  by  exports.  But  their  exports
have  to  a  great  extent  ceased.  How  are  they  to  pay  ?  The
question  is  of  vital  importance.  A  man  who  buys  what  he
cannot  pay  for  is  a  bankrupt.  If,  finding  himself  near  Queer
Street,  he  can  effect  a  revolution  in  his  way  of  life  and  live  on
his  own  resources,  he  can  recover.  If  he  cannot  live  on  his
own  resources  and  yet  cannot  pay  for  what  he  must  have,
his  position  is  clearly  not  enviable.    A  nation  is  not  different.

III.    Internal  Expenditure

Let  us  consider  first  the  problem  of  our  internal  expenditure.
Not  long  after  the  war  started  Mr.  Lloyd  George  said  that  our
daily  expenditure  on  the  war  was  £750,000,  but  that  this  was
a  diminishing  rather  than  an  increasing  figure.  A  few  days
ago  Mr.  Asquith  stated  in  Parliament  that  during  the  first
seventeen  days  of  July  the  Government's  expenditure
amounted  to  £54,190,000,  or  well  over  £3,000,000  a  day.  So
much  for  official  forecasts.  Even  now  our  expenditure  is
increasing  day  by  day.  We  are  buying  more  shells  and
paying  more  for  each  sheU  ;  we  are  enlisting  more  men  ;  we
are  lending  more  and  more  to  other  nations  ;  in  every  direction
our  expenditure  is  going  up.  It  is  not  the  least  unlikely  that
in  a  short  time  it  wiU  be  £4,000,000  a  day,  or  at  the  rate  of
£1,460,000,000  a  year.  If  we  estimate  that  our  expenditure
in  the  next  twelve  months  will  not  rise  higher  than  £3,500,000


134  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

a  day — though  it  almost  certainly  will — our  annual  expenditure
wiU  be  about  £1,300,000,000.  As  our  revenue  is  estimated
at  well  under  £300,000,000,  we  may  safely  assume  that  we
shall  have  to  raise  £1,000,000,000  by  loans  each  year,  and
probably  more.  In  other  words,  we  have  to  repeat  every  six
months  the  tremendous  effort  of  the  recent  war  loan.  Every
six  months  the  nation  must  lend  the  Government  another
£500,000,000.

Let  us  repeat  again  the  salient  figures  on  this  subject,  quoted
in  the  two  preceding  articles.

The  annual  income  of  Great  Britain  is  estimated  roughly  at
£2,300,000,000.  About  £1,900,000,000  is  spent  on  living
expenses  and  maintenance  of  the  nation's  plant.  The  balance
of  £400,000,000  represents  savings,  devoted  in  normal  times
either  to  the  betterment  of  plant  or  to  investment  abroad.
Now,  if  all  betterment  and  investment  abroad  are  stopped —
and  they  cannot  be  entirely — and  if  the  nation's  income
remains  as  large — which  is  hardly  likely — there  remains
£400,000,000  out  of  income  for  war  expenses.  If  we  take  our
war  expenditure,  over  and  above  our  ordinary  expenditure
of  £200,000,000,  at  £1,100,000,000,  we  are  left  with  a  deficit
of  certainly  not  less  than  £700,000,000  to  be  met  either  out
of  capital  or  out  of  current  savings.  If  it  is  met  out  of
capital,  that  capital  must  either  be  liquidated  by  being  sold  to
foreigners  or  its  owners  must  be  able,  by  borrowing  against
it  in  this  country,  to  turn  it  into  "  money,"  which  they  can
lend  to  the  Government,  a  process  likely  to  end  in  a  dangerous
inflation  of  credit.  Already  the  banks'  deposits  in  this  country
were  on  June  30  not  far  short  of  £200,000,000  higher  than  on
June  30,  1914,  representing  mainly  not  increased  wealth,  but
inflation  of  credit.  The  Government  is  spending  on  the  war
more  than  half  the  nation's  whole  gross  income.  Nothing
like  this  has  ever  been  known  before.  It  has  been  estimated
that  in  the  Napoleonic  times  expenditure  probably  never  rose
beyond  one-sixth  of  the  national  income.

The  war  expenditure  of  all  the  belligerents  is  gigantic,  and
for  all  of  them,  therefore,  the  most  rigid  economy  is  necessary
to  escape  exhaustion.  But  for  two  reasons  it  is  more  vital
for  this  country  than  for  any  other.    Both  our  total  expen-


ENGLAND'S  FINANCIAL  TASK  135

diture  and  our  foreign  obligations  are  undoubtedly  greater
than  those  of  any  other  country.  It  is  true,  on  the  other  hand,
that  we  started  with  a  much  larger  supply  of  available  liquid
capital,  but  at  the  present  rate  we  are  rapidly  exhausting
that  portion  of  it  which  is  saleable.  We  are  quickly  exchanging
such  capital  as  other  nations  will  purchase — e.g.,  our  American
securities — for  shot  and  shell.

It  is  necessary  to  emphasize  the  essential  difference  between
expenditure  incurred  within  this  country  and  expenditure
incurred  in  foreign  countries.  If  the  Government  has  to  pay
£1,000  to  an  American  for  shells,  then  the  American  takes
£1,000  out  of  the  country  and  we  have  the  shells.  In  a  week
or  two  the  shells  have  been  used  and  the  country  is  £1,000
poorer.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  Government  pays  an
Englishman  £1,000  for  shells,  then,  though  the  shells  are  used
as  before,  the  £1,000  is  still  left  in  this  country  and  can  either
be  re-lent  to  the  Government  or  expended  on  the  Englishman's
own  private  purposes.  The  fact  that  this  country  pays  every
soldier  Is.  2d.  a  day,  while  the  German  soldier  only  receives
2^d.  and  the  Frenchman  only  ^d.  a  day,  does  not  mean  that
the  country,  as  apart  from  the  Government,  loses  in  wealth
nearly  a  shilling  a  day  more  than  Germany  for  every  soldier
under  arms.  But  it  does  mean  that  there  is  an  enormously
greater  transference  of  wealth  from  man  to  man.  It  does
mean  that  in  this  country  there  is  far  greater  temptation  to
extravagance  and  increased  consumption,  which  must  above
all  things  be  avoided.  Whether  the  Is.  a.  day  extra  we  pay  is
lost  to  the  country  depends  on  whether  the  soldier  saves  it  to
lend  it  to  the  Government  or  squanders  it.  The  same  is  true
of  the  contractor,  the  shipowner,  the  shell-maker,  and  every
other  man  in  the  country  who  is  making  money  out  of  the  war.
The  money  going  to  him  has  been  taken  either  by  taxation
or  loan  from  those  who  had  it.  It  cannot  be  got  from  them
again.  If  the  Government  is  to  go  on  finding  the  money  it
wants,  it  must  be  re-lent  by  those  to  whom  it  has  now  gone.
If,  as  it  goes  from  hand  to  hand,  its  new  possessors  continually
use  it  in  increased  consumption,  they  are  unconsciously  be-
traying their  country.  They  are  weakening  it  and  reducing
its  resources.    No  man  who  is  better  off  as  the  result  of  the


136  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

war  has  the  right  to  spend  the  money  he  has  gained  on  anything
but  the  needs  of  the  state.  It  is  his  duty,  in  fact  the  least  he
can  do,  to  lend  it  again  to  the  state.  He  could  not  complain,
indeed,  if  his  profits  were  taken  from  him  by  taxation.  To
lend  all  they  can  to  the  state  is  the  duty  of  all  those — and
their  number  is  legion — who  are  better  off  as  a  result  of  the  war
— whether  they  are  contractors  or  ship-owners,  or  working  men
or  soldiers,  or  their  dependents.  England  is  far  more  generous
to  her  soldiers  than  any  other  country.  She  cannot  continue
in  this  policy  unless  the  whole  population — soldiers  and  their
dependents  included — respond  by  economy  and  saving.  Every
day  not  less  than  £2,000,000  is  paid  by  the  Government  in  the
form  of  payments  to  contractors,  pay  to  soldiers,  separation
allowances,  and  in  countless  other  ways.  If  those  into  whose
pockets  this  huge  stream  of  wealth  flows  save  and  lend  it  again
to  the  state,  well  and  good.  But,  if  they  spend  it  on  them-
selves, they  are  doing  no  less  harm  to  their  country  than  the
man  who  runs  away  in  battle.  Economy  is  vital,  if  the  Govern-
ment is  to  find  internally  the  money  it  requires.  What  matters
is  the  actual  consumption  of  goods.  The  country  should  be
consuming  far  less  than  usual ;  yet,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  it  is
consuming  more.

IV.    External  Expenditure

Our  second  and  still  more  pressing  problem  is  that  of  meeting
our  foreign  obligations.  How  are  we  to  meet  our  huge  external
debts  and  to  help  our  Allies,  none  of  whom  can  do  so  without
our  aid,  to  meet  theirs  ?  It  is  a  problem  about  which  there  is
much  misunderstanding.  Yet  the  right  solution  of  it  is  vital
to  us.  A  nation  which  has  incurred  debts  to  another  nation
can  only  pay  those  debts  by  giving  in  return  something  which
the  creditor  nation  considers  intrinsically  valuable,  whether
in  services  or  commodities.  It  can  export  goods  to  it  or  sell  it
securities,  or  it  can  perform  valuable  services  for  it,  for  which
it  gets  paid — e.g.,  in  the  form  of  freights  or  banking  commissions,
or  it  can  send  gold  to  it,  or,  finally,  if  its  credit  is  good,  it  can
borrow  money  from  it  to  pay  temporarily  what  it  owes.  In
any  case  it  must  balance  its  account  somehow  in  one  of  the


ENGLAND'S  FINANCIAL  TASK  137

above  ways.  Whether  it  is  or  is  not  finding  difficulty  in
meeting  its  obligations  is  invariably  reflected  in  the  foreign
exchanges.  This  problem  of  the  exchanges  is  to  most  people
a  baffling  mystery  and  it  is  not  intended  in  these  pages  to  try
to  elucidate  it.  It  is  sufficient  to  say  that  to  the  extent  a
nation  in  general  buys  from  other  nations  more  than  it  sells
to  them,  to  that  extent  the  exchanges  become  unfavourable
to  it.  They  are  an  automatic  reflection  of  its  position  and
credit.  Take  England  and  the  United  States  as  an  example.
If  their  debts  balance,  exchange  is  at  par,  or  in  other  words  £1
is  worth  $4*86f  cents.  If  America  owes  on  balance  money  to
England,  £1  is  worth  more  than  $4-86|  cents  ;  if  England
owes  on  balance  money  to  America,  it  is  worth  less.  £1  at  the
date  these  pages  are  being  written  is  worth  only  about  $4*70
cents,  and  its  value  has  recently  been  rapidly  falling.  Take
another  instance.  Russia  has  now  a  very  unfavourable  ex-
change. £10  are  worth  usually  only  about  97  roubles  ;  they
are  worth  now  about  149  roubles,  or  about  52  per  cent  more.
The  exchanges  are,  in  fact,  unfavourable  to  all  the  belligerents.
The  practical  results  of  an  unfavourable  exchange  are  of  vital
importance.  In  the  first  place,  the  more  the  exchange  moves
against  a  country,  the  more  it  has  to  pay  for  its  imports.
Russia  is  paying  52  per  cent  more  for  everything  she  imports.
If  a  certain  kind  of  shell  she  is  buying  from  England  would
have  cost  her  before  the  war  £10,  she  is  paying  nearly  £15  now.
Austria  is  paying  nominally  30  per  cent  more,  though  in  actual
fact  her  complete  lack  of  credit  must  make  foreign  trade
practically  impossible.  Germany  is  paying  about  14  per  cent
more,  France  about  6 J  per  cent,  we  between  3  and  4  per  cent.
But  it  is  not  only  this  extra  cost  that  matters,  though
that  is  in  itself  a  very  great  burden  and  involves,  too,  a  corre-
sponding rise  of  prices  internally.  An  unfavourable  exchange
is  a  sign  that  the  country  in  question  is  finding  difficulty  in
paying.  If  it  continues  to  buy  beyond  its  means  of  payment,
it  finds  greater  and  greater  difficulty.  Its  credit  becomes
more  and  more  strained,  and  foreign  nations  more  and  more
doubtful  whether  it  is  wise  to  trade  with  it  and  whether  it
will  be  able  to  meet  its  obligations.  Foreign  purchases  of
any  description  become  more  and  more  difficult   and  finaUy


138  WAR   AND   NATIONAL  FINANCE

impossible.  The  debtor  nation  is  then  thrown  back  entirely
on  its  internal  resources.

This  process  has  commenced  with  all  belligerent  nations.
Germany  and  Austria  have  indeed  been  forcibly  thrown  back
on  their  own  resources  by  the  British  Fleet.  In  Germany
purchases  are  far  smaller  than  ours  and  yet  the  exchange  is
about  14  per  cent  against  her,  owing  largely  to  the  fact  that  we
have  stopped  practically  all  her  exports.  Russia's  position
is,  as  already  stated,  still  more  unfavourable.  At  the  best  of
times  Russia's  balance  of  trade  is  against  her  and  is  equalized
by  loans.  Now  her  exports  have  practically  ceased  and  yet
imports  are  absolutely  necessary  to  her.  It  is  obvious  that
her  difficulty  in  paying  is  so  great  that  foreign  trade  and  pur-
chases abroad  must  now  present  the  most  acute  difficulties.
Yet  her  needs  in  the  way  of  munitions  are  admittedly  tremen-
dous. Clearly,  since  she  cannot  herself  make  all  she  wants,
it  is  hardly  possible  she  can  satisfy  those  needs,  unless  we  can
help  her  financially.  In  a  lesser  degree  France  and  Italy  are
in  the  same  case.  There  are  indications,  however,  that  France
is  growing  more  self-supporting.  France  has  always  been
famed  for  her  recuperative  power.  It  is  due  not  only  to  the
richness  of  her  soil  and  the  rigour  of  her  people,  but  to  their
habits  of  economy  as  well.

The  burden  on  us  is  therefore  exceedingly  heavy,  and  it  is
vital  that  our  strength  should  be  sufficient  to  bear  it.  It  does
not  matter  much  to  Germany  what  her  exchange  goes  to,  so
long  as  she  is  not  buying  much  from  abroad.  Her  whole  war
policy  is  directed  towards  and  based  on  self-sufficiency.  But
not  so  the  Allies.  Their  war  policy  is  based  largely  on  the  pur-
chase of  munitions,  and  even  food,  from  abroad.  They  are
relying  on  these  munitions,  and,  if  the  financial  position  be-
comes such  that  they  cannot  pay  for  them,  the  foundations  of
their  policy  disappear.  It  will  be  a  matter  of  the  greatest
difficulty  for  them  so  to  alter  it  as  to  become  self-sufficient.
It  may  be  said,  therefore,  that,  like  a  pyramid  resting  on  its
apex,  the  external  financial  position  of  the  Allies  rests  on  the
American  exchange  with  this  country.  It  is  vital  to  all  the
Allies  that  every  means  should  be  used  to  maintain  it.

Figures  do  not  exist  from  which  it  is  possible  to  determine


ENGLAND'S  FINANCIAL  TASK  139

the  nation's  debit  balance  in  relation  to  foreign  nations.  It
will  certainly  not  be  less  than  £200,000,000.  It  may  be  vastly
more.  How  can  this  great  balance  be  squared  ?  Let  us  clear
one  current  misunderstanding  out  of  the  way.  It  cannot  be
squared  or  even  reduced  one  penny  by  any  number  of  loans
in  this  country.  The  British  Government  have  just  raised
an  internal  loan  of  £600,000,000.  That  is  a  wonderful  feat,
but  it  has  not  helped  us  by  one  penny  to  meet  our  debts  to
America.  It  has  not  reduced  our  imports  or  increased  our
exports.  It  has  given  us  nothing  more  of  value  to  exchange
with  America.  It  is  no  good  the  British  Government  offering
America  a  credit  in  the  books  of  the  Bank  of  England.  The
Americans  want  something  valuable  in  America.  The  only
ways  of  paying  our  debts  are  either  to  sell  our  foreign  securities
or  to  induce  America  to  lend  us  money,  or  to  send  her  gold,  or
last  and  most  important,  by  rigid  economy  and  by  increased
production  in  our  own  country  to  cut  down  our  imports  to  the
lowest  possible  figure,  to  increase  our  exports,  and  so  reduce
the  debit  balance  against  us.

To  pay  our  existing  debts  we  must  certainly  sell  a  great  deal
of  our  American  securities.  This  is,  of  course,  equivalent  to
the  reduction  pro  tanto  of  our  capital  wealth.  Unfortunately,
too,  it  reduces  in  future  the  amount  due  to  us  in  the  form  of
interest  from  the  United  States.  Our  holdings  of  foreign
securities  are  generally  estimated  at  nearly  £4,000,000,000:
But  it  is  most  misleading  to  assume,  as  Mr.  Lloyd  George  has
done,  that  all  this  is  liquid  or  available  wealth.  Far  from  it.
The  United  States  are  practically  the  only  people  in  the
world  who  are  now  large  buyers  of  securities,  and  they  will
only  buy  American  securities.  Out  of  our  £4,000,000,000
only  about  £600,000,000  are  invested  in  the  United  States,
and  a  good  deal  of  this  amount  is  probably  unrealizable.
This  source  of  wealth,  therefore,  is  by  no  means  mexhaustible.

Borrowing  in  America  depends  not  on  us,  but  upon  the
Americans.  To  what  extent  it  can  be  done  and  on  what  terms
is  uncertain,  and  any  such  operation  requires  a  combination
of  great  courage  and  skill  on  the  part  of  our  financial  authorities.
Rich  as  we  are,  we  shall  before  long  be  spending  £1,300,000,000
or  £1,400,000,000  a  year.    No  country  can  continue  at  that


140  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

rate  and  not  strain  its  credit.  In  fact,  our  credit,  as  evidenced
by  the  American  exchange,  is  suffering  akeady.  Much  depends
on  the  political  course  of  events.  The  entry  of  the  United
States  into  the  war  on  our  side  would  enormously  lessen  the
financial  strain.  America's  most  valuable  contribution  to
victory  would  undoubtedly  be  to  lend  freely  some  of  her  vast
financial  resources  to  the  AlHes.  So  long  as  she  continues
neutral,  the  difficulties  in  the  way  of  an  adequate  loan  are
great,  for  the  American  people  have  never  been  very  favour-
ably incHned  towards  foreign  securities  of  any  kind.  What
is  absolutely  essential,  if  we  are  to  borrow  in  the  States,  is  that
we  should  neglect  no  means  of  maintaining  our  credit  un-
diminished.

This  brings  us  to  the  consideration  of  our  policy  in  con-
nection with  gold  exports.  In  ordinary  times,  to  ship  gold
is  the  normal  way  of  balancing  accounts  and  keeping  the
exchanges  level,  and  it  is  necessary  to  inquire  whether  that
is  a  function  which  gold  cannot  still  be  allowed  to  fulfil.  It
is  desirable  first  of  all  to  consider  the  gold  resources  of  the  Allies.
The  Bank  of  France  has  a  reserve  of  £174,000,000,  or  more
than  she  had  a  year  ago  ;  the  Imperial  Bank  of  Russia  has
£162,000,000,  or  only  £2,000,000  less  than  a  year  ago.  Our
position,  too,  is  very  strong,  though,  as  in  other  things,  we
have  not  taken  the  trouble  to  organize  our  strength  and  show
it  to  the  world.  A  gold  reserve  is  only  useful  when  the  world
sees  it.  The  international  banker  looks  at  the  gold  reserves
of  the  great  national  banks  and  at  nothing  else.  He  looks  at
the  returns  of  the  Imperial  Bank  of  Germany  and  sees  a
reserve  of  £114,000,000  ;  he  looks  at  the  Bank  of  England
returns  and  sees  £59,000,000.  He  does  not  know  that  we
have  £29,000,000 — far  more  than  is  wanted — as  a  reserve
against  our  currency  notes  ;  that  the  Joint  Stock  Banks
have,  it  is  reported,  between  £30,000,000  and  £40,000,000  ;
that  there  is  a  huge  untapped  reserve  in  the  pockets  of  the
people.  He  probably  forgets  that  we  receive  yearly  about
£40,000,000  of  newly  mined  gold  from  the  British  Empire ;
he  certainly  forgets  that  our  Dominions  have  their  own  gold
reserves ;  that  the  Australian  banks,  for  instance,  hold
£40,000,000.


ENGLAND'S  FINANCIAL  TASK  141

The  first  task  of  our  Government  therefore — a  task  on  which
they  have  not  started  before  a  very  serious  situation  has
abeady  arisen — is  to  mobilize  our  gold  reserves,  and  so
strengthen  the  Bank  of  England.  It  would  then  be  apparent
how  strong  our  position  is,  and  it  would  be  clear  that,  if  this
country,  France,  and  Russia  followed  a  concerted  and  har-
monious policy  with  regard  to  the  export  of  gold,  there  would
bo  exceedingly  little  danger  of  any  undue  weakening  of  our
reserves.

As  it  is,  opinions  seem  to  differ  as  to  the  extent  to  which  we
ought  to  allow  our  gold  to  be  exported.  Opinions,  indeed,
even  among  high  authorities,  are  often  very  vague  as  to  the
exact  reasons  why  we  collect  these  huge  stores  of  gold,  and
what  we  ought  to  do  with  them  when  we  have  got  them.  It
is  very  difficult  to  dissociate  gold  from  the  idea  of  hoarding,
and  there  have  always  been  people  who  believe  that  the  best
thing  to  do  with  gold  is  to  sit  upon  it.  Yet  it  is  generally
recognized  that  one  at  any  rate  of  the  reasons  why  we  collect
all  this  gold  is  that  we  may  use  it  in  case  of  need  for  maintaining
the  exchanges.  It  may  be,  and  no  doubt  is,  an  extremely
difficult  matter  to  hit  upon  a  policy  which  will  combine  all
merits.  We  have  got  to  maintain  our  credit  both  at  home
and  abroad.  Rightly  or  wrongly,  a  large  gold  reserve  is  viewed
throughout  the  world  as  the  main  condition  of  financial  strength
and  credit.  The  Bank  of  England,  therefore,  must  at  all  times
maintain  a  gold  reserve  sufficient  to  satisfy  both  the  population
of  this  country  and  all  foreign  countries  as  to  its  unshakable
strength.  It  naturally,  therefore,  regards  with  some  anxiety
the  possibility  of  large  exports.  Yet  at  the  same  time  it  is
equally  vital  to  its  own  credit  and  traditions  and  to  the  position
of  London  as  the  financial  centre  of  the  world,  as  well  as  to  the
existence  of  our  foreign  trade,  that  we  should  allow  our  gold
to  be  used  to  help  us  to  meet  our  debts.  For  the  Bank  of
England  to  sit  on  its  reserve  would  be  the  last  of  our  proud  and
ancient  claim  that  London  is  the  only  free  gold  market  of  the
world.

It  must  never  be  forgotten  that  the  whole  fabric  of  British
credit,  and  the  whole  position  of  London  in  the  financial
world,  is  built  up  on  the  traditional  policy  of  the  free  gold


142  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

market.  If  that  policy  is  once  abandoned — and  unfortunately,
without  making  any  great  effort,  the  Government  have  already
allowed  the  situation  to  get  out  of  hand — our  position  is
fundamentally  altered.  Not  only  is  our  credit  shaken,  but
our  difficulties  in  recapturing  after  the  war  our  former  pre-
eminence enormously  increased.  There  is  no  half-way  house
between  being  a  free  gold  market  and  not  being  a  free  gold
market.  When  the  American  exchange  falls  to  a  certain
point,  then  every  international  banker  knows  that  gold  should
normally  flow  from  here  to  New  York.  If  it  does  not,  then
he  will  have  reason  to  suspect  that  we  are  frightened  of  letting
it  go,  and  immediately  he  will  become  apprehensive  as  to  our
credit.  He  knows  that  if  gold  is  not  allowed  to  go,  there  is
nothing  to  stop  a  continuous  fall  in  the  exchange.  This
general  apprehension  will  increase  the  difficulties  of  meeting
the  situation.  It  will  make  more  remote  the  possibility  of
raising  large  enough  sums  in  America  to  relieve  the  strain.  All
this  has  indeed,  unfortunately,  already  been  allowed  to  happen.
There  is  every  reason  to  suppose  that  a  bolder  policy  than
has  been  pursued  would  have  been  a  better  one.  The  country
should  let  gold  go  when  the  financial  conditions  warrant  it.
It  is  true  that  we  might  lose  a  good  deal  of  gold.  But  we  can
afford  it  much  better  than  we  can  afford  the  shattering  of  our
credit,  which  the  opposite  policy  involves.  The  difficulties  of
insurance,  and  the  risks  of  carriage,  are  in  themselves  a  barrier
to  our  losing  any  very  large  quantity  in  a  short  time.  The
worst  policy  of  all  would  be  to  put  such  obstacles  in  the  way
of  gold  export  as  seriously  to  damage  our  credit,  while  at  the
same  time  taking  no  active  and  determined  steps  to  mobilize
all  our  gold  resources  in  this  country,  and  to  insist  that  France
Russia,  and  even  Italy,  shall  bear  their  proportion  of  the
exports.  We  are  bearing  their  financial  burden,  and  it  is  both
just  and  necessary  they  should  aid  us.  To  maintain  the  ex-
changes is  as  vital  to  all  the  Allies  as  men  and  munitions.  If
there  were  a  collapse  in  the  exchanges,  neither  they  nor  we
could  purchase  what  we  require.  Thus  it  is  the  plain  duty
of  our  Government  to  bring  this  all-important  part  prominently
before  our  Allies  and  to  insist  for  the  sake  of  all  that  they
should  share  in  certain  proportions  in  supplying  the  gold


ENGLAND'S  FINANCIAL  TASK  143

needed.  If  a  comprehensive  policy  to  this  end  were  agreed
upon,  the  Allies  could  well  afford  to  export  far  more  gold
than  the  United  States  are  likely  to  wish  to  absorb.  It  is
said,  indeed,  that  America  does  not  want  gold.  She  has
£180,000,000  akeady,  and  is  afraid  that  additional  imports
may  lead  to  an  undesirable  inflation  and  speculation.  All  the
more  reason  for  sending  it.  The  Americans,  like  other  nations,
act  from  self-interest.  The  huge  orders  we  are  placing  in  their
country  are  directly  to  their  own  advantage.  If  they  do  not
help  us  to  finance  them  there  will  be  no  alternative  for  us
but  to  send  them  gold.  If  they  do  not  want  gold,  it  is  for  them
to  devise  other  means  of  rectifying  the  position.

But  it  is  not  enough  only  to  ship  gold.  We  must  have
a  comprehensive  plan  and  at  the  same  time  take  every  other
possible  measure  to  fill  up  the  deficit  in  our  national  balance
sheet.  We  must  sell  our  securities,  produce  more  in  this
country,  and  consume  less.  As  it  is,  we  are  unfortunately
helping  to  make  the  task  not  easier,  but  more  difficult  to  accom-
plish. It  is  not  as  if,  while  ordering  great  stores  of  munitions,
we  were  buying  less  in  other  directions.  We  are  buying  more,
very  much  more  in  value,  since  all  prices  have  risen  enormously,
and  more  even  in  quantity.  In  the  official  returns  of  the  Board
of  Trade  it  is  shown  that  among  other  items  we  imported  this
June  increased  quantities  of  the  following  articles  of  food  and
drink  as  compared  with  June,  1914.  The  increases  were  as
follows  :  oranges,  over  22,000  tons  ;  cocoa,  over  6,000  tons  ;
coffee,  over  7,000  tons  ;  tea,  nearly  3,000  tons  ;  tobacco,
6,000  tons  ;  pepper,  over  1,600  tons  ;  cheese,  over  3,000  tons  ;
rice,  28,000  tons  ;  onions,  700,000  bushels,  as  well  as  over
£3,500,000  more  meat.  In  July  we  imported  nearly  £900,000
of  tobacco  more  than  last  July.  Some  of  these  increases  are
no  doubt  due  to  Army  supplies,  but  they  are  certainly  striking
figures  to  any  who  may  think  the  cry  for  economy  is  overdone.
There  is,  it  is  true,  false  economy  as  well  as  wise.  As  matters
stand,  while  Germany  is  somehow  or  other  managing  without
her  usual  imports  of  over  £500,000,000  a  year,  we  are  importing
even  more  than  usual.  No  selling  of  securities,  no  export  of  gold
can  keep  pace  in  the  end  with  our  present  extravagance.  It  is
essential  that  we  should  consume  less,  so  that  we  may  have


144  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

more  to  export  and  less  to  import.  The  time  is  inevitably  com-
ing when  om*  artificial  prosperity  will  vanish  and  we  shall  be
forced  by  bitter  necessity  into  the  path  of  wisdom.  But  if
we  wait  until  we  must  before  we  cut  deep  into  our  habits  of
extravagance,  we  shall  rue  it  not  only  during  the  war,  but  in
the  collapse  which  will  come  after  it  is  over.

V.    Conclusion

Side  by  side  with  the  armed  struggle  in  the  field  there  is
going  on  another  silent,  invisible  struggle  which  in  the  end  may
be  equally  decisive — the  struggle  of  exhaustion.  The  resources
of  any  nation,  however  rich,  engaged  in  this  terrible  contest
must  be  taxed  to  the  uttermost.  The  richer  and  stronger  the
nation,  the  greater  the  burdens  it  must  shoulder.  Germany
must  support  Austria  and  Turkey  ;  we  must  support  Russia,
Italy,  and  even  France.  Without  our  aid  in  meeting  their
external  obligations  the  financial  power  of  these  countries  to
make  purchases  abroad  would  be  seriously  crippled  already  ;
and  it  will  become  still  weaker  in  the  future,  unless  we  continue
to  aid  them.  The  burden  is  the  greatest  ever  assumed  by  any
community,  and  our  strength,  which  we  have  not  properly
husbanded,  is  showing  signs  of  overstrain.  Yet  there  is  Httle
to  show  that  we  appreciate  the  imperative  duty  it  imposes  on
every  one  of  us.  Abstinence,  saving,  self-sacrifice  in  their
daily  lives,  these  are  not  yet  resolves  which  war  has  evoked
in  the  masses  of  our  people.  There  are  many,  it  is  true,  who
are  already  feeling  the  pinch  of  higher  prices.  Yet  to  vast
numbers  the  war  has  brought  greater  affluence  and  wider
opportunities  of  spending  which  they  have  not  refused  to  grasp.
We  are  neither  an  imaginative  nor  a  saving  people,  and  it  is
not  to  be  expected  that  we  should  realize  and  carry  into  action
hour  by  hour  in  our  daily  life  the  irksome,  but  imperative,
practice  of  economy,  just  when  unexpected  means  of  spending
have  been  placed  in  our  hands.  Thus  at  a  time  when  it  is
vital  that  we  should  consume  nothing  that  is  not  absolutely
necessary,  our  imports  of  many  articles  are  bounding  up.  By
some  means,  if  not  by  voluntary  effort,  then  by  compulsion
and  taxation,  this  increased  consumption  must  be  checked.
Undoubtedly  the  Government  must  impose  heavy  taxation


ENGLAND'S  FINANCIAL  TASK  145

on  all  imported  articles.  They  must  tax  the  rich  heavily,  but
they  must  tax  the  masses  of  the  people,  too  ;  for  it  is  in  the
consumption  of  the  bulk  of  the  population  that  economies
will  tell.  The  rich  man  must  give  up  his  motor-car,  and  his
cigars  ;  but  the  poor  man,  too,  must  be  sparing  in  his  tea,
coffee,  sugar,  and  tobacco.  Of  late  years  luxury  and  self-
indulgence  have  permeated  every  class  of  the  nation.  Our
whole  standard  of  life  has  been  altered.  Cannot  we  manage
to  go  back  now  even  to  the  standard  of  ten  years  ago  ?  Compare
the  year  1903  with  1913.  Within  that  period,  after  deduction  of
re-exports,  our  imports  of  tobacco  had  gone  up  from  82,000,000  lb.
to  162,000,000  lb.  ;  of  cocoa  and  chocolate,  from  48,000,000  lb.
to  88,000,000  lb. ;  of  tea,  from  260,000,000  lb.  to  307,000,000  lb.;
of  sugar,  from  1,700,000  tons  to  2,200,000  tons,  or  an
increase  of  500,000  tons  ;  of  wheat,  from  4,400,000  tons  to
6,200,000  tons.  These  are  a  few  items,  and  since  1913  the
increases  have  gone  on  growing.  But  the  Government  must
do  more  than  tax.  They  must  show  by  example  that  they
realize  the  urgency  of  economy.  They  must  cut  down  their
own  expenditure,  and  rigidly  suppress  the  appalling  waste
and  extravagance  which  has  been  too  apparent  in  many
quarters.

The  Government  have  already  started  a  campaign  through-
out the  country  to  advocate  among  the  people  the  urgent  need
of  economy.  Let  them  press  it  on  by  every  means  in  their
power.  Let  them  enlist  voluntary  help  in  every  district  to
aid  their  officials'  efforts,  whether  it  be  by  the  formation  of
local  committees  or  by  the  assistance  of  the  trade  unions,  the
co-operative  societies,  the  friendly  societies,  or  any  other  bodies
ready  to  lend  a  hand.

But,  when  all  is  said  and  done,  what  is  most  needed  is  that
all  British  men  and  women  should  realize  in  their  hearts  and
imaginations  that  here  at  home  they  themselves  by  their  own
conduct  from  hour  to  hour  and  day  to  day,  by  their  abstinence
or  by  their  extravagance,  by  their  hard  work,  or  by  their
slackness,  are  directly  and  profoundly  helping  or  hindering
their  country's  cause,  and  are  either  consecrating  or  making
of  no  avail  the  sacrifices  which  their  husbands,  sons,  and
brothers  are  making  in  the  bloody  fields  of  Flanders  and  the

L


146  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

Dardanelles.    If  a  man  consumes  less,  so  that  we  may  have
less  to  import,  if  he  works  hard,  to  produce  either  food  or  goods,
so  that  we  may  have  more  to  export,  he  is  making  it  by  so
much  easier  for  us  to  buy  munitions  both  for  ourselves  and  aU
our  Allies,  and  he  is  helping  to  preserve  our  store  of  gold  and
our  credit  and  financial  power.     If  he  is  wasteful,  extravagant,
and  slack,  he  is  cutting  at  the  tap-root  of  our  strength,  and
bringing  nearer  the  day  when  we  shall  no  longer  be  able  to
give  our  Allies  the  vital  help  they  need,  or  even  perhaps  buy
for  ourselves  the  munitions  and  food  which  are  essential  to  us.
Let  us  remember  that,  while  so  many  are  fighting  in  the
trenches  and  can  no  longer  aid  in  producing  what  is  required,
it  behoves  all  of  us  who  are  left  behind  to  work  doubly  hard
for  the  nation's  sake.     There  are  many  millions  of  patriotic
souls  in  this  country  who  lament  keenly  that  they  can  do  so
little  to  help  those  who  are  offering  their  lives  to  their  country,
but  something  they  can  all  do.     Let  them  work  their  best
every  hour  of  the  day,  and  let  them  impose  on  themselves
some  real  daily  act  of  abstinence.     If  every  man  who  smoked
tobacco  in  this  country  were  told  that,  by  every  one  abstaining
from  smoking  for  a  year,  we  could  afford  to  buy,  in  order  to
aid  our  cause,  £8,000,000  more    of   guns  and  shells  than  we
otherwise  could,  how  many  would  refuse  ?     Yet  that  is  the
truth,  and  it  is  true  not  only  of  tobacco,  but  of  every  other
luxury  we  import.     If  every  man,  woman,  and  child  saved
only  ]  5.  a  week,  it  would  amount  to  £120,000,000  a  year.     Small
acts  of  abstinence  practised  day  by  day  by  the  whole  population
may  seem  to  many  mean,  useless,  and  even  ridiculous  ;   yet,
if  our  people  had  the  imagination  and  the  strength  to  carry
them  out,  our  whole  financial  burden  would  be  enormously
lightened.     It  is  in  the  vivid  and  continuous  personal  realization
of  this  fact,  and  in  its  application  to  our  own  lives,  that  we
too  often  fail.     If  this  war  is  to  be  a  war  of  exhaustion,  then
that  people  will  win  which  can  bring  to  its  aid  the  greatest
energy,  abstinence,  and  endurance.


VI

THE   BRITISH  EMPIEE'S  FINANCIAL  TASK

(December,  1915)

Every  month  which  passes  brings  more  and  more  into
prominence  the  magnitude  of  the  financial  burden  which  the
war  is  placing  on  the  shoulders  of  Great  Britain  and  the  British
Empire,  and  the  magnitude,  too,  of  their  financial  and  economic
power.

In  previous  articles  an  attempt  has  been  made  to  elucidate
the  true  nature  of  the  financial  problem  before  us,  and  what
efforts  and  sacrifices  it  demands  from  the  whole  people.  The
subject  is  so  all-important  that  no  apology  is  needed  for  return-
ing to  it.  The  strain  to  which  the  United  Kingdom  is  being,
and  will  be,  subjected  is  clearly  evidenced  by  our  vast  expendi-
ture. We  have  been  told  officially  that  every  one  must  be
ready  to  give  the  Government  through  taxation  or  loan  at
least  half  his  income,  and  we  have  been  warned  that  our
financial  strength  is  to  be  strained  to  the  uttermost.  It  is  not
the  intention  of  this  article  to  discuss  in  detail  the  financial
measures  and  expedients  by  which  the  Government  will  have
to  meet  the  Country's  requirements.  Its  aim  is  rather  to
examine  the  financial  and  economic  problem  as  it  concerns  the
nation  as  a  whole,  to  investigate  what  is  reaUy  happening
beneath  all  this  machinery  of  loans  and  taxation,  and,  finally,
to  make  clear  what  part  can  and  should  be  played  not  only
by  the  citizens  of  the  United  Kingdom,  but  also  by  the  Govern-
ments and  citizens  of  every  other  part  of  the  Empire,  if  we
are  to  carry  through  the  war  to  a  successful  conclusion.

I.    The  Financial  Position

Mr.  McKenna  has  recently  estimated  that  our  expenditure
during  this  financial  year  will  be  about  £1,600,000,000.    Of

147


148  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

this  about  £300,000,000  will  be  covered  by  taxation,  leaving
£1,300,000,000  to  be  covered  by  loan.  In  last  July  a  loan  of
£600,000,000  was  raised.  To  cover  our  expenditure  up  to  the
end  of  next  March  loans  in  some  form  or  other  amounting  to
not  less  than  another  £600,000,000  will  be  required.  By  March
next  our  daily  expenditure  will  probably  be  well  over  £5,000,000
a  day,  or  at  the  rate  of  not  much  less  than  £2,000,000,000  a
year,  a  sum  practically  equal  to  the  nation's  whole  income.
Our  revenue  for  next  year  is  estimated  at  about  £400,000,000.
In  other  words,  if  the  war  lasts  for  another  year  beyond  March
next,  we  shall  have  to  find  an  additional  £1,600,000,000  by
loan.  Thus  our  financial  burden,  vast  as  it  is  now,  is  growing
rapidly.  Our  present  expenditure  is  enormously  increased  by
the  necessity  we  are  under  of  lending  very  large  sums  to  our
Allies.  These,  we  are  told,  will  amount  this  financial  year  to
about  £400,000,000.  We  may  hope  in  time  to  recover  these
huge  debts,  but  for  the  time  being  they  are  just  as  much
expenditure  which  we  must  meet  as  anything  else.  How
important  and  essential  is  the  financial  help  we  give  to  our
Allies  is  proved  by  the  calculation  that  our  loans  are  sufficient
to  pay  for  the  equipment  and  maintenance  in  the  field  of
3,000,000  men.

We  have  raised  already  since  the  beginning  of  the  war,  in
one  way  and  another,  by  loan,  or  Exchequer  or  Treasury  Bills,
something  between  £1,100,000,000  and  £1,200,000,000.  We
have  got  to  go  on  raising  money  now  at  still  greater  speed.
Somehow  or  other  the  Government  must  have  the  money  it
requires.  If  it  cannot  get  it  by  normal  methods  it  must  get  it
how  it  can,  even  if  it  were  eventually  driven  to  forced  loans,  or
inflation  of  currency.  As  long  as  the  people  of  a  country  are
prepared  to  go  on  fighting,  continue  to  believe  in  their  own
financial  stability  as  a  state,  and  can  produce  or  buy  what  is
necessary  for  themselves  and  their  soldiers,  they  need  not  be
absolutely  prevented  by  lack  of  "  money."  If  the  goods  are
there,  and  the  Government's  lOU's  are  taken,  the  "  money  "
can  be  created  ;  the  printing-press  can  print  more  currency,
and  State  loan  banks  can  be  created,  as  in  Germany,  to  lend
money  on  all  kinds  of  security.  But  necessary  as  these  measures
may  be,  let  no  one  suppose  they  are  not  evil.    They  lead  to


THE  BRITISH  EMPIRE'S  FINANCIAL  TASK    149

great  inflation  and  to  a  continued  rise  in  prices.    They  may
for  the  time  being  deceive  the  country  by  providing  all  the
appearances  of  prosperity.     Money  will  be  plentiful ;    high
prices  will  yield  great  profits  ;   the  huge  Government  expendi-
ture will  lead  to  a  wide  redistribution  of  wealth.    Yet  mean-
while the  appearance  of  greater  wealth  will  be  accompanied  in
reality  by  its  increasing  shrinking.    The  deposits  of  the  banks
may  increase,  but  the  real  wealth,  which  they  represent,  will
be  less.     High  prices  may  to  many  bring  great  profits  ;    to
many  more  they  will  bring  great  suJffering.     The  inflation  of
credit  may  encourage  and  allow  for  a  time  of  increased  consump-
tion, but,  since  it  does  not  add  one  iota  to  production,  it  will
only  add  to  the  increasing  difiiculties  in  the  way  of  supply  meet-
ing demand  and  of  the  country  paying  for  its  foreign  purchases.
The  financial  measures,  whether  by  loan  or  taxation,  which
the  Government  may  take  to  supply  its  needs  in  the  way  of
money,  are  of  the  first  importance  for  the  maintenance  of  our
credit  and  for  the  conduct  of  the  war.     But  with  these  details
this  article  is  not  concerned.     It  is  to  be  supposed  that  some-
how or  other  the  Government  will  be  able  to  obtain  at  home
all  the  money  it  requires,  to  buy  such  goods  as  can  be  produced
at  home.

If  Austria-Hungary  can  find  the  money  to  keep  armies  of
millions  in  the  field,  it  is  to  be  supposed  that  we  can.     Our
real  problem  is  a  different  one.     It  is  whether  we — i.e.,  the
nation  as  a  whole.  Government  and  people  alike — can  continue
to  buy /rom  abroad  all  the  goods,  food,  munitions,  etc.,  which
we  and  our  Allies  must  have.    And  here  it  is  no  longer  so
much  a  question  of  financial  expedients.     We  may  raise  twenty
war  loans  in  this  country  ;  we  may  tax  ourselves  twenty  times
as  much  ;   but  that  will  not  provide  us  with  a  single  dollar  to
pay  the  Americans  what  we  owe  them.     Our  own  internal
currency,  our  own  Government's  lOU's  are  good  enough  for
us,  but  they  are  no  good  to  America.     It  is  no  good  our  Govern-
ment offering  Americans  a  cheque  on  the  Bank  of  England.
They  want  money  which  is  current  in  their  country,  not  our
money.     Our  Government  may,  it  is  true,  persuade  them,  as
indeed  it  has  just  done,  to  lend  it  some  of  their  money,  which
it  can  then  use  for  payments  due  over  there.    But  apart  from


150  WAR   AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

what  it  can  borrow,  it  has  no  other  means  to  pay  beyond  such
as  are  available  to  the  ordinary  British  citizen.  It  can  find
money  to  pay  abroad  only  out  of  the  proceeds  of  our  exports,
or  by  the  sale  of  gold,  or  by  the  sale  of  securities,  or  for  money
due  to  us  for  services  rendered,  such  as  freight.  Since,  there-
fore, we  are  buying  so  enormously  from  abroad,  it  is  worth
while  to  consider  by  what  means  we  propose  to  pay.  For  if
those  means  were  to  fail  us  and  we  could  not  persuade  our
foreign  creditors  to  lend,  no  financial  expedients,  such  as  the
Government  may  use  to  provide  itself  with  money  in  its  own
country,  will  help  us.

We  should  then  have  to  go  without  the  goods  we  want,  or
in  any  case  cut  down  our  requirements  drastically.  That  is
no  figure  of  speech.  We  are  not  lending  £400,000,000  a  year
to  our  Allies  because  we  like  doing  it.  We  are  doing  it  because
they  can  no  longer  buy  what  they  want  for  themselves.  Russia
can  find  the  "  money  "  she  wants  in  her  own  country,  but  she
cannot  export  the  goods  to  pay  for  what  she  wants  from  foreign
countries,  nor  wiU  they  lend  her  their  goods  on  credit.  There-
fore she  must  either  do  without  what  is  essential  for  her,  or
we  must  help  her.  This  assistance  in  purchasing  from  abroad,
which  we  grant  so  lavishly  to  our  Allies,  is  vital  for  them.  Let
us  examine  our  capacity  to  continue  it.

II.  The  Economic  Position
(a)  The  National  Income  and  Expenditure  of  the  United  Kingdom

It  is  simpler  for  a  clear  understanding  of  the  burden  which
the  war  entails  on  Great  Britain,  and  of  the  manner  in  which
alone  it  can  be  met,  to  ignore  for  the  time  being  the
financial  elements  of  the  problem,  and  to  fix  our  minds  rather
on  things  :  on  the  actual  processes  of  production  and  consump-
tion lying  beneath  all  that  intricate  financial  machinery  which
is  apt  to  obscure  realities.

Neither  in  peace  nor  in  war  does  a  nation  live  on  "  money.'*
Its  gold  and  silver  coins  have,  it  is  true,  an  intrinsic  value  of
their  own,  but  neither  they  nor  its  bank-notes,  nor  its  currency
notes,  nor  its  bank  deposits  are  its  real  wealth.  Its  real  wealth
is  something  quite  different.    It  consists  of  aU  those  existing


THE  BRITISH  EMPIRE'S  FINANCIAL  TASK    151

things  which  the  efforts  and  sacrifices  of  past  generations,  and
of  this  generation  too,  have  produced,  and  are  from  day  to  day
producing.  It  is  from  this  mass  of  wealth,  which  either  has
been  produced  in  the  past  or  is  day  by  day  being  produced —
i.e.,  from  its  capital  and  income — that  a  nation's  needs,  whether
in  peace  or  war,  can  alone  be  met.  There  is  only  one  other
source,  and  that  a  temporary  and  unstable  one — namely,
borrowing  from  other  nations,  or  in  other  words  the  sale  by
foreign  nations  of  their  goods  for  the  time  being  on  credit.
No  inflation  of  credit,  no  increase  of  currency,  no  financial
manipulation  will  of  itseM  produce  a  single  additional  grain  of
wheat  or  a  single  additional  cartridge.

It  is  worth  while  to  return  again  to  the  examination — already
made  in  a  previous  article — of  the  exact  nature  of  a  nation's
capital  and  income,  since  important  consequences,  which  are
not  generally  understood,  bearing  on  the  conduct  of  every
man  and  woman  in  war  time,  flow  therefrom.

A  nation's  capital  may  be  defined  as  the  whole  mass  of  its
accumulated  wealth  consisting  of  :

(a)  Fixed  assets  such  as  land,  mines,  buildings,  machinery,
railways,  roads,  canals,  etc.

(6)  Live  stock,  stocks  of  raw  materials,  and  manufactured
articles  of  every  kind.

(c)  Gold  and  silver  coins,  and  bullion.

(d)  Debts  owing  by  foreign  nations,  and  property  owned

in  foreign  countries — (e.g.,  through  bond  or  share  hold-
ings in  foreign  companies).

(e)  The  intangible  but  aU-important  capital  represented  by

the  inherited  and  acquired  skill,  energy,  organization,

discipline,  and  productive  capacity  of  the  people.
A  nation's  income,  which  is  larger  or  smaller  according  to
the  amount  and  quality  of  its  capital,  consists  roughly  of  :
(a)  Its  current  output  or  production  of  wealth  in  the  form

of  usable  or  suitable  articles   of  any  kind,  or  service

exchangeable  therefor.
(&)  Its  earnings  from  other  nations  for  services  rendered —

e.g.,  debts  due  to  Great  Britain  for  freight,  for  banking

commissions,  etc.
(c)  Its  revenue  derived  from  foreign  investments.


152  WAR   AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

It  should  be  noted  that  in  reaHty  the  income  under  (h)  and
(c)  does  not  come  to  it  in  the  form  of  money.  In  reality  it
enables  the  creditor  nation  to  obtain  goods  from  foreign
countries  to  the  extent  of  those  earnings  and  that  revenue
without  having  to  export  goods  to  pay  for  them.  From  the
national  point  of  view,  therefore,  they  represent  so  much
additional  wealth  in  the  form  of  goods  which  the  nation  can
consume.

It  is  interesting  to  compare  the  figures  usually  given  by
statisticians  for  the  value  of  our  capital  and  income  as  compared
with  Germany's,  and  for  the  respective  expenditure  of
the  two  nations,  a  comparison  which  gives  some  remarkable
results.  Statistical  figures  of  this  nature  can  only  be  very
approximately  true,  and  other  difficulties  arise,  in  comparing
results  as  between  nations,  whose  standards  of  life  and  ways  of
living  are  very  different.  Nevertheless,  they  form  an  adequate
ground  for  broad  comparisons.  Dr.  Helfferich,  the  present
German  Finance  Minister,  placed  Germany's  capital  wealth
in  1913  at  something  under  £16,000,000,000.  He  estimated
the  United  Kingdom's  capital  wealth  at  only  £12,000,000,000.
But  British  statisticians  make  a  considerably  higher  valuation,
and  usually  give  for  the  United  Kingdom  the  same  figure  as
he  gives  for  Germany' — namely,  £16,000,000,000.  Since,  then,
the  populationsare  respectively  68,000,000  and  47,000,000,  our
capital  wealth  per  head  is  considerably  greater,  a  result  due
no  doubt  in  the  main  to  our  much  greater  holdings  of  foreign
and  Colonial  securities,  which  are  usually  said  to  equal  about
£4,000,000,000,  though  it  is  probable  that  they  have  of  recent
years  largely  decreased  in  value.  The  comparative  figures  for
income  yield  still  more  striking  results.  For  Germany  we  wiU
take  Dr.  Helfferich's  figures,  for  the  United  Kingdom  the
figures  of  the  Census  of  Production  of  1907,  though  since  that
date  our  wealth  must  undoubtedly  have  increased.

England .  Germany.

^£  £
Goods    and    services    produced    and

received,  about          .          .          .     2,150,000,000  1,960,000,000

Goods  and  services  consumed.          .     1,800,000,000  1,660,000,000

Surplus  wealth        ....        350,000,000  400,000,000

These  figures  show  that  47,000,000  British  have  an  income


THE  BRITISH  EMPIRE'S  FINANCIAL  TASK    153

of  £2,150,000,000,  or  just  over  £46  per  head,  whereas  68,000,000
Germans  have  an  income  of  £1,960,000,000,  or  under  £29  per
head.  They  further  show  that,  while  our  expenditure  per
head  is  over  £38,  Germany's  is  £23.  According  to  this  calcula-
tion each  man,  woman,  and  child  in  the  United  Kingdom
spends  £15  a  year  per  head  more  than  each  German  man,
woman,  and  child,  and  if,  therefore,  we  were  to  cut  down  our
expenditure  to  theirs,  we  should  save  £720,000,000  per  annum.
The  German  economy  in  expenditure  is  especially  striking
owing  to  the  fact  that  the  cost  of  living  is  generally  considered
to  be  higher  in  Germany  than  in  England.  It  is  not,  however,
intended  to  argue  that  the  comparison  is  actually  a  fair  one,
or  that  so  huge  a  saving  is  reasonably  to  be  expected  from  us.
Indeed,  owing  to  the  different  standards  of  the  two  nations,  no
accurate  mathematical  comparison  is  possible.  If  we  were  to
cut  down  our  expenditure  so  drastically,  we  might  cut  down
much  of  our  income  with  it.  The  figures  quoted  are,  however,
sufficient  to  show  that  there  is  a  great  deal  of  room  for  economy
in  our  way  of  living.  They  are  especially  remarkable  if  one
remembers  that  the  German  standard  must  by  now  have  been
cut  down  again  far  below  £23  per  head,  probably,  indeed,  at
least  one -third  lower,  while  ours  has  hardly  been  reduced  at  all,
if,  indeed,  it  has  not  increased.

It  is  vital  to  grasp  how  all-important  is  a  nation's  annual
production  of  wealth.  Whether  in  peace  or  war  what  it  lives
on  is  what  it  produces  from  day  to  day,  The  figures  quoted
above  show  that  the  wealth — i.e.,  the  materials,  goods  and
services — produced  each  year  in  this  country  are  not  much
less  than  one-sixth  of  the  total  capital  wealth  of  the  country,
resulting  from  the  efforts  of  all  past  generations.  It  is  true
that  the  great  bulk  of  this  annual  production  is  immediately
consumed,  only  something  under  one-fifth  being  added  to  the
capital  stock.  Yet  nothing  could  show  more  clearly  that  a
nation's  true  wealth  lies  in  the  harmonious  employment  of  the
energy,  skill,  productive  capacity,  and  thrift  of  its  citizens.  A
nation's  production  of  wealth  is  not  something  fixed.  It  is
capable  of  being  indefinitely  expanded  by  the  application  of
increased  capital — i.e.,  by  the  savings  of  the  nation  transformed
into  additional  or  improved  plant,  into  labour-saving  devices,


154  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

into  increased  motive  horse-power  per  man,  and,  on  the  other
hand,  by  the  greater  efficiency  of  labour,  superior  management
and  the  greater  co-ordination  of  the  efforts  of  labour  and  capital.
But,  if  owing  to  extravagance  and  failure  to  save  the  necessary
capital,  owing  to  inefficiency  of  labour,  restriction  of  output,
or  bad  organization,  owing  to  continued  friction  between
capital  and  labour,  a  nation's  income  falls  far  below  what  it
might  be,  then  all  classes  will  suffer  and  the  nation  as  a  whole
fall  behind  its  competitors.

In  normal  times,  as  will  have  been  seen,  nations  like  England
and  Germany  have  an  income  a  good  deal  larger  than  their
expenditure.  They  add  yearly  quite  a  large  amount  to  their
capital  wealth.  The  more  they  save  the  more  easily  do  they
increase  each  year  their  surplus  wealth.  And  this  surplus
wealth  is  then  applied  in  the  direction  of  improving  the  national
plant  as  defined  above,  adding  to  and  bettering  the  machinery
of  production  and  transport,  or  else  in  lending  capital  to  foreign
countries.  Nevertheless,  this  annual  surplus  income,  out  of
which  improved  conditions  of  living  are  built  up,  is  never  so
large  as  it  might  be.  Certainly  in  England  it  might  be  far
larger.  Its  size  depends  (1)  on  the  productive  energy  of  the
nation  and  on  every  man  helping  to  produce  as  much  as
possible,  (2)  on  the  nation  consuming  only  that  portion  of  the
product  which  is  necessary  for  its  true  needs,  and  on  every
citizen  wasting  on  useless  purposes  as  little  as  possible.  It  has
already  been  pointed  out  how  serious  from  the  point  of  view
of  production  is  the  policy  of  restriction  of  output,  fatal,  indeed,
both  morally  and  economically.  The  maldistribution  of  the
national  income,  which  imbues  the  working  classes  with  a  sense
of  injury  and  injustice  and  leads  to  so  much  dangerous  friction
between  capital  and  labour,  in  turn  checks  production  and  so
injures  the  whole  nation.  With  a  proper  distribution  of  wealth
the  greatest  possible  production  must  be  of  equal  advantage
to  all  classes.  The  problem  of  the  better  distribution  of  the
national  income  is,  therefore,  one  for  which  some  solution,  or
at  least  amehoration,  is  vitally  required.

On  the  side  of  consumption  the  growing  wealth  of  a  nation
and  its  bad  distribution  tends  to  great  waste.  The  growth  of
luxury  diverts  the  nation's  productive  powers  into  supplying


THE  BRITISH  EMPIRE'S  FINANCIAL  TASK    155

unproductive  articles.  All  classes  become  wasteful  in  food,
drink,  clothing,  and  household  economy  generally.  What  this
means  may  be  gathered  from  Sir  Robert  Giffen's  estimate,
made  some  years  ago,  that  34  per  cent  of  the  national  expendi-
ture is  on  food  and  drink,  13  per  cent  on  dress,  and  16  per  cent
in  **  house"  expenditure,  including  rent,  furniture,  light,  etc.
The  rich  become  wasteful  in  all  their  pleasures,  motoring,
dress,  servants,  etc.  They  demand  that  labour  shall  be  use-
lessly employed  in  providing  for  all  their  unnecessary  wants,
and  the  less  rich  follow  suit  as  best  they  can.  Take  one  or  two
instances  of  wasteful  consumption.  Our  drink  bill  in  1913
was  over  £166,000,000.  All  that  money  could  have  been
productively  employed.  As  it  was,  it  went  to  employ  labour,
capital  and  ability  on  the  growth  of  barley  and  hops,  the  work-
ing of  breweries  and  distilleries,  and  on  the  management  of
countless  public-houses.  In  the  end  the  product  of  all  this
great  labour  and  effort  had  gone  down  the  throats  of  the
people,  generallyH)o  their  great  detriment,  and  nothing  remained.
Had  it  been  diverted  for  the  betterment  of  our  productive
industries — suppose,  for  instance,  that  it  had  been  employed
in  providing  better  motive  power  for  our  industries  or  in  rebuild-
ing our  canals  or  in  better  clothing,  housing,  or  education  of
the  poorer  classes — our  wealth  would  have  been  much  greater.
Again,  when  a  rich  man  employs  much  labour  and  capital  in
his  unproductive  pleasures,  in  keeping,  for  instance,  too  large  a
number  of  men-servants  or  gardeners  for  pleasure  gardens,  or
when  his  wife  employs  many  dressmakers,  they  are  diverting
the  nation's  labour  and  capital  from  productive  to  unproductive
wealth.  Nor  is  it  only  the  rich  who  err,  though  in  their  case  the
error  is  the  more  glaring  and  the  less  pardonable.  The  poorer
classes  in  this  country  are  perhaps  less  thrifty  than  their  fellows
in  any  great  civilized  country  except  the  United  States .  Unfor-
tunately there  are  too  many  millions  for  whom  saving  is  prac-
tically an  impossibility.  But,  even  where  it  is  possible,  it  is  a
comparatively  rare  virtue,  as  the  profits  of  pubUc-houses,
cinemas,  theatres,  and  race-course  "  bookies  "  show.  Many
social  troubles  would  be  remedied  if  both  rich  and  poor  learnt
more  of  the  true  art  of  economical  living.


15G  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

(b)  The  Effect  of  War  on  the  National  Income  and  Expenditure

The  effect  of  modern  war  on  a  nation's  income  is  profound.
It  changes  the  amount,  and  still  more  the  character,  both  of
the  production  and  the  consumption.  It  is  not  possible  to
calculate  accurately  the  extent  of  the  changes.  The  unknown
factors  are  too  many.  But  it  is  possible  to  show  generally  the
influences  at  work  and  to  form  some  measure  of  their  effects.
The  national  income  and  expenditure  of  the  United  King-
dom were  estimated  above  at  about  £2,150,000,000  and
£1,800,000,000  respectively.  The  income  has  been  affected
in  the  first  place  by  the  withdrawal,  most  of  them  from  pro-
ductive occupations,  of  about  3,000,000  soldiers  and  sailors
between  the  ages  of  18  and  44.

Now,  since  the  "  occupied  males  "  between  those  ages  in
England  and  Wales  amounted  in  1911  to  7,200,000,  it  is  clear,
after  adding  the  equivalent  figure  for  Scotland  and  Ireland,
that  well  over  one-third  of  the  most  vigorous  "  occupied  males  "
have  gone.  On  the  other  hand,  the  gap  has  been  partly  filled
at  any  rate  by  unemployed  men,  by  women  and  boys,  and  by
harder  work  and  more  overtime  generally.  It  is  possible,  indeed,
that  the  loss  of  productive  power  has  not  exceeded  10  per  cent.
Let  us  suppose  that  the  nation's  productive  income,  excluding
therefrom  soldiers'  wages  as  not  being  in  this  sense  productive,
and  excluding  rises  in  prices,  which  affect  income  and  expendi-
ture equally,  has  fallen  to  £2,000,000,000,  or  by  7J  per  cent.

In  the  second  place,  however,  that  product  has  changed
largely  in  character.  It  has  changed  owing  to  the  enormous
demand  by  ourselves  and  our  Allies  for  munitions  of  war  not
used  before.  Let  us  assume  for  a  moment  that  the  con-
sumption of  the  nation,  including  the  non-munition  consump-
tion of  our  soldiers  and  sailors,  is  as  usual  and  amounts  to
£1,800,000,000.  Our  income  being  £2,000,000,000,  there  is  a
surplus  of  only  £200,000,000  left  to  meet  all  the  munitions
required  by  ourselves  and  all  our  loans  to  our  Allies,  which  will
be  taken  in  the  form  of  goods  from  us  or  other  nations.  It  is
impossible  to  say  how  much  out  of  our  Government  expenditure
of  £1,600,000,000  is  in  respect  of  these  two  items.  It  may  well
be  £1,000,000,000.  If  so,  there  will  be  a  shortage  of  £800,000,000,


THE  BRITISH  EMPIRE'S  FINANCIAL  TASK    167

which  must  be  met  either  by  saving,  or  out  of  capital,  or  by
borrowing.  Let  it  be  remembered  this  is  not  money  we  shall
be  short  of,  but  actual  goods.

Let  us  give  the  calculation  in  another  way,  giving  figures  for
actual  goods  produced  only,  and  omitting  altogether  the  value
of  productive  services,  such  as  the  services  of  Government
servants,  railway  officials,  hotel  keepers,  etc.

The  Census  of  Production  for  1907  gives  the  following  figures
for  the  goods  which  we  actually  produced  or  obtained  by  ex-
change, or  lent  abroad  by  way  of  investment :

£

1.  Goods  used  for  personal  consumption       .     1,410,000,000

2.  Goods  available  for  capital  purposes  :

(a)  Maintenance  of  existing  plant      .  .        180,000,000

(b)  Investment  at  home  ....         190,000,000

3.  Goods  used  to  maintain  or  increase  stocks

of  consumable  goods     ....  65,000,000

4.  Goods  exported  as  means  of  payment  for

loans  to  foreigners         ....        100,000,000


Total     £1,945,000,000

This  figure  of  £1,945,000,000  represented  in  1907  not  only
what  we  produced  for  our  own  use,  but  what  we  obtained  from
abroad,  either  in  exchange  for  goods  exported  or  in  return
for  money  due  for  interest  on  investments,  freight,  etc.,  together
with  an  additional  £100,000,000  of  goods  which  we  had  over
and  available  for  lending  abroad.  Of  the  above  items  it  will
be  seen  that  Item  2  (a)  and  in  part  Item  3  were  required  purely
for  maintaining  our  plant  and  working  capital.  In  other
words,  say,  £200,000,000  must  properly  be  deducted  to  arrive
at  what  goods  are  available  for  consumption  without  living
on  our  capital.

This  leaves  £1,745,000,000.  Now  if  we  assume,  as  before,
that  our  production  of  goods  is  less  by  7 J  per  cent,  we  get  a
resulting  figure  of  £1,615,000,000.  On  the  assumption  that
we  still  consume  for  personal  use  £1,410,000,000,  and  yet  must
have  £1,000,000,000  of  munitions  for  ourselves  and  goods  and
munitions  for  our  Allies,  we  again  arrive  at  a  shortage  of
actual  goods  of  about  £800,000,000.  This  actual  shortage  can
only  be  covered  either  by  a  reduction  in  the  goods  consumed


158  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

for  our  personal  use,  or  by  living  on  our  capital,  or  we  must
beg,  borrow,  or  steal  from  our  neighbours.

Mention  has  more  than  once  been  made  of  our  living  on  our
capital.  To  what  extent  can  we  meet  our  actual  shortage  of
goods  in  that  way  ?  If  reference  is  made  to  the  definition
of  national  capital  earlier  in  this  article,  it  will  be  seen  that  much
of  it  is  obviously  unusable.  We  cannot  actually  live  on  our
land,  railways,  machinery,  etc. ;  we  can,  it  is  true,  cease  to  keep
them  up  to  standard,  and  spend  nothing  or  much  less  on  the
upkeep  of  our  national  plant.  We  can,  too,  let  our  stocks  of
materials  and  live  stock  diminish.  The  figures  just  quoted  from
the  Census  of  Production  show  that  we  might  find  between
£200,000,000  and  £240,000,000  in  this  way,  that  being  the
actual  amount  we  spend  yearly  on  upkeep.  But,  unless  our
plant  is  to  go  to  rack  and  ruin,  we  cannot  long  continue  such  a
spendthrift  policy.  Failing  this  we  can  only  live  on  our  capital
to  the  extent  that  we  sell  it  to  foreign  countries.  We  have,  it
is  calculated,  £4,000,000,000  of  investments  outside  of  England,
though  their  value  must  be  less  now.  But  only  quite  a  small
fraction  can  be  sold.  We  can  hardly  sell  much  of  our  own
fixed  capital  in  our  own  country,  and  the  last  thing  we  want
to  sell  is  our  mercantile  marine.

We  can,  it  is  true,  seU  a  good  part  of  our  gold.  But,  when  we
come  to  the  end  of  that  and  of  our  securities,  we  have  no  other
resource  but  to  borrow,  unless  we  can  by  efforts  in  production
and  saving  live  more  within  our  means.

(c)  Our  Foreign  Debts
Owing  to  the  fact  that,  as  has  just  been  shown,  our  needs
and  those  of  our  Allies  so  far  exceed  the  balance  of  our  produc-
tion over  our  consumption,  we  are  buying  at  an  enormously
increased  rate  from  foreign  countries  to  fill  the  gap.  It  is
impossible  to  get  exact  figures  on  this  score,  since  the  amount
of  Government  purchases  is  unknown.  But  some  estimate
can  be  made.  According  to  the  official  figures  our  imports  are
now  exceeding  our  exports  at  the  r.^vte  of  nearly  £400,000,000
a  year.  But  this  is  exclusive  of  Government  imports.  Let  us
suppose  these  are  at  the  rate  of  £200,000,000  a  year,  though,
since   no   figures   are    published,    this    must   be  simply    an


THE  BRITISH  EMPIRE'S  FINANCIAL  TASK    159

estimate.  Against  this  total  of  £600,000,000  have  to  be  set
our  earnings  on  account  of  freight,  banking  commissions,  and
interest  on  investments  abroad.  The  two  latter  are  certainly
smaller  than  they  were.  Freights  are,  on  the  other  hand,
enormously  higher,  but  a  very  large  proportion  of  our  mercan-
tile marine  has  been  taken  by  the  Navy,  and  it  is  a  question
whether  the  amount  of  goods  we  are  carrying  for  other  nations
is  not  very  much  smaller.  Our  earnings  from  all  these  sources
are  usually  stated  at  about, £350,000,000  a  year.  We  shaU  be
optimistic  if  we  place  them  now  at  £400,000,000.  That  still
leaves  a  debit  balance  of  £200,000,000,  to  which  must  be  added
loans  to  our  Allies  at  the  rate  of  £400,000,000  a  year,  making  a
total  balance  against  us  of  £600,000,000.  This  great  sum  can
only  be  met  out  of  capital,  i.e.,  by  selling  our  securities  or  our
gold.  It  is  not  worth  while  making  any  estimate  of  the  extent
to  which  we  can  meet  it  in  that  way.  In  so  short  a  time  as
one  year  we  certainly  cannot  meet  it  all.  The  only  alternative
is  to  borrow,  or  in  the  alternative  so  to  increase  our  home
production  and  at  the  same  time  reduce  our  scale  of  living  so
substantially  as  to  reduce  our  imports.

It  is  instructive  to  compare  our  position  in  this  subject  with
that  of  Germany.  Germany  has  been  faced  with  all  our  diffi-
culties. With  so  many  men  fighting  and  so  huge  a  production
of  munitions,  her  national  income  available  for  consumption
by  the  civil  population  must  have  been  enormously  reduced.
Unlike  us,  she  cannot  make  up  the  shortage  by  importing  from
abroad.  She  can  only  make  both  ends  meet  by  her  own  efforts,
by  the  wholesale  employment  of  women,  boys,  and  old  men,  by
the  extreme  development  of  her  productive  energies,  by  living
on  capital  in  the  sense  of  spending  not  a  penny  more  than  is
absolutely  necessary  on  the  upkeep  of  roads,  railways,  houses,
machinery,  and  so  forth,  by  living  on  her  stocks  of  materials
and  live  stock,  and  finally  by  the  utmost  economy  in  consump-
tion on  the  part  of  her  whole  people.  Even  so,  it  is  clear  that
there  must  be  a  very  great  shortage  generally,  since  prices
are  enormously  high.  The  economic  strain  and  suffering  in
Germany  are  much  greater  than  they  are  yet  with  us.  But  she
reaps  this  advantage  that,  unlike  us,  she  is  not  on  the  way  to
pile  up  a  great  external  debt  which  must  later  be  redeemed.


160  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

How  long  we  can  continue  to  live  at  our  present  pace  depends
on  the  extent  to  which  foreign  countries  and  especially  the
United  States  and  in  addition  also  the  British  Dominions  are
ready  and  able]  to  sell  the  goods  we  want  from  them  on  credit.
In  normal  times  economic  forces  would  of  themselves  very
quickly  prevent  a  nation  from  living  beyond  its  means,  as  we
are  now  living.  Economic  forces  are  always  pulling  a  nation
towards  an  equilibrium  between  its  buying  and  selling.  So
great  a  balance  of  trade  against  us  would  mean  so  great  a  fall
in  the  exchanges  that  the  cost  of  importing  goods  would
become  prohibitive,  and  we  should  be  driven  to  mend  our  ways.
But  when  Governments  buy  regardless  of  cost,  economic
forces  cease  to  act.  Moreover,  we  are  attempting  by  abnormal
means,  by  large  shipments  of  gold,  by  the  sale  of  securities,  and
by  loans  such  as  the  recent  £100,000,000  loan  in  New  York,
to  maintain  artificially  the  exchanges.  This  is  a  sound  and
indeed  a  necessary  policy,  but  it  has  this  great  disadvantage,
that  the  ordinary  importer  is  not  discouraged  from  importing
by  a  falling  exchange  and  the  ordinary  consumer  from  consum-
ing by  quickly  rising  prices.  Moreover,  our  imports  are  now  so
great  that  the  Anglo-French  loan  in  the  United  States  has  by
no  means  solved  the  question  of  the  exchanges,  and  the
Government  wiU  be  bound  very  seriously  to  consider
whether  imports  on  the  present  huge  scale  can  be  perma-
nently combined  with  the  free  export  of  gold  and  the  attempt
to  maintain  the  exchanges  at  something  like  their  normal
figure.

Meanwhile  the  growing  shortage  of  goods,  the  increasing
inflation  from  which  we  can  hardly  escape,  is  bound  to  lead
to  higher  and  higher  prices.  The  more  goods  each  of  us  con-
sumes, the  more  costly  and  difficult  will  life  become  for  our
poorer  brethren,  and  the  greater  the  biu-den  of  imports  on  the
country.  The  figures  in  the  last  Board  of  Trade  returns  are
eloquent  of  this  fact.  For  the  nine  months  ending  September,
1915,  we  imported  £285,000,000  of  food,  drink,  and  tobacco,
as  against  £210,000,000  for  the  same  period  in  1913,  the  last
normal  period  with  which  comparison  can  be  made.  For  the
same  two  periods  we  imported  17,000,000  cwts.  less  grain  and
flour  in  1915  than  in  1913,  and  yet  they  cost  us  £20,000,000


THE  BRITISH  EMPIRE'S  FINANCIAL  TASK    161

more.    We    imported    2,300,000  cwts.  less  meat,  yet   meat
cost  us  £26,000,000  more.

III.  The  Capital  and  Income  of  the  British  Empire

The  discussion  hitherto  has  been  confined  to  the  financial
and  economic  position  of  the  United  Kingdom.  But  it  may-
be asked :  What  about  the  resources  of  the  British  Empire
as  a  whole  ?  It  is  the  British  Empire,  not  the  United  Kingdom
only,  which  is  at  war.  There  is  no  part  of  the  British  Empire
which  is  not  vitally  concerned  in  the  struggle.  Are  not  the
whole  resources  of  the  Empire  available  ?  And  are  they  not
much  greater  than  the  resources  of  the  United  Kingdom  only  ?

In  1903  Sir  Robert  Giffen  made  the  following  estimate  ;

Capital.  Income.

.      £1,350,000,000         £270,000,000


Canada
Australasia     .
India     .
South  Africa
Remainder  of  Empire


1 ,1 50,000,000  21 0,000,000

3,000,000,000  600,000,000

600,000,000  100,000,000

1 ,200,000,000  200,000,000


Total  £7,300,000,000     £1,380,000,000


Here,  indeed,  is  a  great  addition  to  the  wealth  of  the  United
Kingdom  alone,  and  since  1903  the  wealth  of  the  rest  of  the
British  Empire  has  been  largely  increased.  Sir  Robert  Giffen
then  estimated  the  income  per  head  of  Canada  and  Australasia
at  £48,  as  against  £42  for  the  United  Kingdom.  Since  then  the
latter  figure  has  increased  to  £46  and  it  is  hardly  open  to  doubt
that  the  figure  for  Canada  and  Australasia  has  increased  in
proportion.  Let  us  take  it,  however,  at  £50  per  head.  If  the
populations  of  Canada  and  Australasia  are  taken  at  8,000,000
and  6,000,000  respectively,  their  annual  incomes  would  then
be  £400,000,000  and  £300,000,000  respectively.  If  Giffen  is
right  in  assuming  that  for  a  new  country  the  income  could
be  estimated  at  about  one-fifth  of  the  capital,  then  the  capi-
tal of  Australasia  and  Canada  would  be  £2,000,000,000  and
£1,500,000,000  respectively.  These  calculations  are  fairly
accurately  borne  out  by  the  relative  size  of  the  banking  deposits
in  each  country,  the  deposits  in  Canadian  banks  being  over
£200,000,000   and   in   Australia    (apart   from   New  Zealand)

M


162  WAR   AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

about  £170,000,000,  as  compared  with  British  deposits  of
roughly  £1,000,000,000.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the
figures  given  above  for  Canada — namely,  capital  £2,000,000,000,
income  £400,000,000 — tally  almost  exactly  with  the  figures
for  the  United  Kingdom  in  1816  at  the  end  of  the  Napoleonic
wars,  when  the  national  debt  stood  at  over  £800,000,000.  If
one  estimates  that  the  United  Kingdom  is  now  raising  loans
at  the  rate  of  £1,400,000,000  a  year,  then  Canada  and  Australia,
if  they  were  incurring  indebtment  at  the  same  rate  would,  on
the  basis  of  their  income  as  compared  with  that  of  the  United
Kingdom,  be  raising  about  £250,000,000  and  £190,000,000
annually,  and  on  the  basis  of  their  capital  about  £170,000,000
and  £130,000,000  annually.  If  population  were  taken  as  a
basis,  the  figures  would  come  out  approximately  the  same
as  on  the  basis  of  income.  What  has  been  the  increase  in  the
wealth  of  South  Africa,  of  India,  and  of  the  other  dependencies
of  the  Empire  since  1903  it  is  impossible  to  say,  but  that  it
has  increased  greatly  there  can  be  no  doubt.  If  it  could  be
assumed  to  have  increased  in  the  same  proportion  as  that  of
Canada  and  Australia,  then  the  capital  of  the  Empire  outside  the
United  Kingdom  would  be  over  £10,000,000,000,  and  the  income
over  £2,000,000,000,  the  income  thus  being  about  equal  to  that
of  the  United  Kingdom.  It  is  no  doubt,  however,  a  good  deal
too  sanguine  to  suppose  that  India's  wealth  has  for  instance
increased  in  the  same  ratio  as  Canada's.  Yet  the  figures
quoted  are  sufficient  to  show  the  enormous  economic  strength
of  the  Empire  as  a  whole.

There  is  no  other  state  in  the  world  which  approaches  any-
where near  this  economic  strength  with  the  exception  of  the
United  States.  If  all  this  great  wealth  and  all  these  resources
lay  within  a  ring  fence  and  could  be  as  readily  and  as  directly
and  as  ruthlessly  employed  on  the  object  of  the  war  as  are  being
and  will  be  those  of  the  United  Kingdom,  and  could  be  devel-
oped and  utilized  by  one  Government  within  one  single  financial
system  and  with  a  single  aim  to  the  war,  in  the  manner  that  the
resources  of  the  United  States  would  for  instance  be  employed
in  similar  circumstances,  the  addition  to  our  economic  strength
would  be  enormous.  But  this  cannot  in  the  nature  of  things  be
so.     Each  part  of  the  Empire  is  under  a  different  Government ;


THE  BBITISH  EMPIRE'S  FINANCIAL  TASK    163

each  possesses  a  separate  financial  system.  Its  great  wealth  is,
so  to  speak,  stored  in  separate  reservoirs — a  British,  a  Canadian,
an  Australian,  an  Indian  reservoir.  The  British  Government
can  by  its  taxation  and  its  loans  only  pump  the  money  and
goods  it  requires  out  of  its  own  reservoir ;  the  Canadian  and
Australian  Governments  only  from  theirs.  If  the  British  reser-
voir is  running  low,  then  it  is  only  the  other  Governments
which  can  give  it  or  lend  it  more  supplies.  It  is  worth  while  to
be  clear  as  to  the  consequences  of  this  position.  The  food
products,  the  raw  materials,  the  munitions  of  war  which  Eng-
land receives  from  the  different  parts  of  the  Empire  are  invalu-
able to  her,  but  so  long  as  she  has  to  pay  for  them  in  cash  she
is  no  better  off  financially  than  if  they  came  from  neutrals.  It
makes  no  difference  to  the  British  Treasury  whether  it  has  to
pay  |15  for  a  shell  to  an  American  or  a  Canadian  manufacturer,
or  to  an  English  miller  whether  he  pays  $1  a  bushel  for  wheat
to  Australia  or  the  Argentine.  The  British  Treasury  and  the
English  miller  no  doubt  prefer  to  buy  from  the  Canadian  manu-
facturer and  the  Australian  farmer,  so  as  to  keep  the  money
in  the  Empire.  But  to  the  British  taxpayer  and  the  British
consumer  the  result  is  identical.  In  truth,  the  great  wealth
of  the  British  Dominions  over  the  seas,  while  potentially  of
enormous  value,  is  of  use  in  the  present  war  only  in  so  far  as  it
is  employed  on  its  objects.  And  it  can  only  be  so  employed
to  the  extent  that  the  different  parts  of  the  Empire  either  meet
out  of  their  own  resources  their  own  cost  of  the  war,  or
lend  money  out  of  those  resources  to  the  British  Govern-
ment, or  in  other  words  sell  them  their  exports  on  credit,
just  as  the  United  States  by  lending  £100,000,000  is  selling
to  France  and  England  its  goods  to  that  extent  on  credit.

It  is  not  suggested  that  it  lies  within  either  the  duty  or  capa-
city of,  say,  Australia  or  Canada  to  raise  by  loan  or  taxation  any
sum,  proportionate  so  far  as  wealth  goes,  to  that  which  is  being
raised  in  the  United  Kingdom.  A  new  country  in  the  course  of
rapid  development,  with  less  abundance  of  liquid  wealth  and
with  no  foreign  investments,  is  in  a  different  category  from
an  old  country  like  England.  Yet  the  time  may  come,  and
quickly,  when  Great  Britain  may  have  to  ask  the  larger  Domin-
ions whether  there  is  any  method — in  addition  to  the  great


164  WAR   AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

assistance  in  men  already  given — whereby  they  can  contribute
financially  towards  ensuring  victory.  The  British  people  are
taking  on  very  heavy  burdens.  They  have  already  been  told
officially  that  every  man  must  be  ready  to  give  up  half  his
income  to  the  service  of  the  State.  The  assistance  which  can
be  given  financially  from  the  other  parts  of  the  Empire  would
be  of  the  utmost  service.  It  so  happens,  too,  that  the  assis-
tance which  the  Dominions  might  give  would  be  of  a  kind
which  would  be  the  most  valuable  of  all.  If  the  conclusions
of  this  article  are  right,  then  the  great  difficulty  of  England
will  be  to  find  the  means  to  pay  for  her  purchases  of  food,  raw
materials ,  and  munitions  from  oversea .  What  greater  help  could
the  Dominions  give  than  to  advance  her  for  the  time  being  the
money  wherewith  to  buy  the  food  and  other  materials  which
she  can  get  from  them  ?  It  is  a  tradition,  difficult  to  forget,
that  England  is  always  the  lender  and  the  Dominions  always
the  borrowers.  War  changes  many  things.  England  can  no
longer  lend.  Are  not  the  Dominions  now  in  a  position  to
finance  their  own  expenditure,  war  and  otherwise  ?  Australia
is  indeed  raising  an  internal  loan  of  £20,000,000  for  her  own
purposes ;  Canada  is  going  to  raise  an  internal  loan  for  the
same  end.  But  are  they  not  in  a  position  to  do  a  still  greater
service  to  the  Empire  by  raising  money  internally  for  the
purpose  of  making  advances  to  the  British  Government  ?
There  should  be  no  difficulty  in  the  financial  measures  required.
Take,  for  instance,  the  case  of  Canada.  Owing  to  the  great
economies  in  expenditure  which  she  has  made,  and  to  her  fine
harvest,  it  is  probable  that  Canada,  instead  of  the  usual  heavy
balance  of  trade  against  her,  will,  if  her  people  continue  to  be
economical,  have  a  favourable  balance  of  even  up  to  §200,000,000.
Of  this  $125,000,000  is  required  for  interest  on  her  external
debt.  But  it  is  quite  possible  that  she  could  raise  by  loan
in  New  York  an  amount  at  least  equal  to  the  latter  sum,  in
which  case  she  would  have  her  whole  surplus  available  to  lend
to  Great  Britain.  She  will  in  so  doing  benefit  herself  as  well.
She  will  be  merely  forgoing  the  immediate  enjoyment  of  her
profits  and  building  up  for  herself  a  reserve  abroad  which  will
be  very  useful  to  her  after  the  war.  It  would,  of  course,  serve
the  same  purpose  if  she  were  to  use  her  surplus  to  pay  off  any


THE  BRITISH  EMPIRE'S  FINANCIAL  TASK    165

indebtedness  to  England  shortly  falling  due.  The  more  the
Dominions  were  able  to  lend,  the  greater  naturally  would  be
England's  purchases  from  them  of  food,  munitions,  and  raw
materials — in  preference  to  neutrals.  They  would  thus  reap
the  immediate  benefit  of  their  loans.  In  turn,  in  order  to  find
the  money,  they  would  need  to  practise  the  same  saving  and
abstinence  from  new  expenditure  as  is  now  being  enforced
on  the  British  people.  A  further  and  indirect  result  might
be  a  very  large  and  permanent  development  of  inter-imperial
trade.

It  is  not  open  to  question  that  all  parts  of  the  British  Empire
are  equally  determined  on  any  sacrifice  to  win  the  war.  The
British  Government  in  its  position  of  trusteeship  for  India
and  the  other  dependencies  is  not  in  a  position  to  place  a  great
burden  of  debt  on  them.  Nor  is  South  Africa,  in  her  peculiar
position,  able  to  do  more  than  meet  her  own  requirements.
It  remains,  however,  for  consideration  between  the  British
Government  and  the  larger  Dominions  whether  some  financial
plan,  such  as  has  been  briefly  sketched  here,  would  not  be
practicable,  of  equal  benefit  to  all  parties,  and  of  immeasurable
assistance  to  the  Empire.

IV.    Some  Conclusions

The  wealth  of  the  British  Empire  is  so  great  that  it  seems
hardly  open  to  doubt  that  it  will  outlast  that  of  its  enemies.
The  issue  lies  largely  in  our  hands  and  those  of  our  kinsmen
overseas.  Our  weakness  is  that  Great  Britain  is  obliged  to
purchase  so  large  a  proportion  of  her  own  supplies  and  those  of
her  Allies  from  overseas,  and  is  running  short  of  the  normal
means  of  payment.  It  is  no  mere  chimera  to  suppose  that
England  may  at  the  present  rate  come  to  the  end  of  those  means
on  the  scale  she  is  requiring  them  at  present.  She  alone  indeed
of  all  the  belligerents  is  in  a  position  still  to  continue  her  pur-
chases freely  to  meet  her  needs .  It  is  wise,  therefore ,  not  to  shut
our  eyes  to  the  possibilities  of  the  future.  Germany  has  been
forced  to  live  on  herself.  Whether  she  can  continue  to  do  so
indefinitely  remains  to  be  seen.  We,  on  the  other  hand,  have
based  our  whole  war  policy  on  our  ability  to  maintain  our  sup-
plies from  abroad.    Fortunately  there  is  no  reason  to  assume


166  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

that  we  shall  not  always  maintain  our  power  to  buy  a  great
deal  abroad.  Our  ability  to  repay  in  the  long  run  is  undoubted,
and  it  is  therefore  very  grv3atly  to  the  interest  of  the  countries
chiefly  concerned  to  sell  us  their  goods  even  on  credit.  If,
however,  these  supplies  were  to  be  largely  cut  off,  we  should
have  to  alter  our  policy,  and  try  to  make  ourselves  self-sufficient,
or  nearly  so.  That  the  Empire  could  do  so  if  every  part  were
ready  to  make  the  sacrifices  required  there  is  little  doubt.
But  it  would  involve,  on  the  part  of  the  people  of  Great  Britain
particularly,  efforts  and  sacrifices  far  greater  even  than  any
hitherto  made.

It  is  therefore  a  matter  of  the  first  importance  that  we  should
preserve  our  credit  and  our  buying  power.  To  that  end  we  must
devote  our  whole  energies  to  increased  production  and  simul-
taneously to  the  strictest  economy  in  consumption.  And  not
only  we  in  Great  Britain,  but  the  citizens  of  the  Dominions
too,  so  that  they  may,  by  giving  their  assistance  not  only  in
men,  but  in  money,  lend  their  decisive  aid  to  help  their  brothers
and  ours  in  the  trenches,  and  to  carry  the  Empire  victoriously
through  this  great  crisis.


VII

r        THE    FINANCIAL    AND    ECONOMIC    FUTURE

(December,  1918)


Perhaps  the  greatest  of  all  internal  problems  after  the  war
is  that  of  providing  ample  employment  at  good  wages  for  our
people,  or  regarded  from  another  angle,  of  securing  prosperity
to  trade  and  industry.  Much  will  depend  on  the  method  of  the
settlement  of  certain  serious  questions  between  Capital  and
Labour.  But  they  are  only  part  of  a  far  larger  whole.  There
are  other  and  even  more  fundamental  problems  of  a  financial
and  economic  character,  upon  the  successful  solution  of  which
rests  the  whole  future  of  industry,  trade  and  employment.
The  proper  handling  of  them  is  so  vital,  and  yet  is  likely  to  run
counter  to  so  many  vague  beliefs  and  ideas  in  the  minds  of
all  those  unacquainted  with  the  conditions  of  our  economic  and
financial  stability,  that  it  is  worth  while  to  make  some  attempt
in  a  broad  and  even  crude  way  to  state  them  simply.

There  are  many  people  who  believe  that  we  have  during
the  war  stumbled  upon  some  new  and  easier  way  of  living  and
earning  our  livelihood  which  renders  many  of  the  old  doctrines
of  political  economy  obsolete.  Notwithstanding  the  vast
wastage  of  war,  they  see  apparent  prosperity,  full  employment
and  high  wages.  If  these  things  are  done  in  the  dry  leaf,  what
may  be  done  in  the  green  ?  Should  there,  they  ask,  be  any
difficulty  at  all  in  peace  time  in  at  least  equalling  our  prosperity
in  war  ?  It  is  true  that  we  have  learnt  many  lessons  in  war.
We  have  learnt  that  we  were  at  the  least  rich  enough  then
to  have  devoted  much  more  money  than  we  did  to  education,
health  and  other  means  of  raising  the  standard  of  living.    We

167


168  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

have  learnt  that  vast  numbers  of  our  people  were  earning  wages
barely  sufficient  to  maintain  even  a  low  standard  of  health,
far  less  physical  well-being  and  comfort.  We  have  learnt
that  the  true  wealth  of  a  nation  consists  in  a  healthy,  strong
population,  and  in  the  utilization  of  its  material  resources  to
that  end.  But  unfortunately— as  we  shall  find — we  have
discovered  no  new  Aladdin's  lamp,  no  new  short  cut  to  pros-
perity. Wages  and  profits  depend  as  of  yore  on  hard  work,
saving,  efficient  management,  co-operation  between  Capital  and
Labour,  and  up-to-date  plant.  There  is  no  inexhaustible
fund  of  riches  into  which  the  State  can  dip  its  hands,  and  which
it  can  distribute  gratis  to  its  citizens.  Our  wealth  is  what  we
produce  and  what  we  save.  If  we  have  wasted  capital  in  war,
we  shall  have  to  make  it  good.  If  our  production  is  impeded
and  saving  gives  way  to  extravagance,  profits  and  enterprise
will  decline  and  wages  and  employment  with  them.

We  must  not  be  misled  by  the  fallacious  appearances  of  war.
We  have  been  enjoying  the  temporary  prosperity  of  a  spend-
thrift, speeding  towards  bankruptcy.  We  have  been  living
easy,  because  we  have  been  living  on  our  capital.  We  hav^
imported  from  abroad  hundreds  of  millions  of  pounds'  worth  of
materials  more  than  we  can  afford  :  the  war  demands  of  the
Government  have  created,  without  regard  to  cost,  an  unlimited
purchasing  power,  which  has  been  rendered  effective  by  the
raising  of  vast  loans.  Many  of  us — all  who  live  on  fixed  salaries
or  incomes — are  getting  daily  poorer,  but  in  the  main  the  com-
munity has  been  enjoying  great  apparent  prosperity.  It  is
the  custom  to  argue  that  internal  Government  loans  are  no
burden,  since  they  represent  merely  money  owed  by  one  section
of  the  community  to  another.  But,  even  apart  from  their
evil  effects  on  credit,  prices  and  our  whole  financial  structure,
this  argument  is  fallacious.  If,  for  instance,  our  war  loans
were  so  increased  that  to  meet  the  interest  bill  the  income  tax
had  to  be  raised  to  205.  in  the  £,  the  enterprise  and  initiative  of
all  who  were  not  holders  of  War  Loan  would  be  effectively
sapped.  Long  before  so  extreme  a  point  is  reached,  the
heavy  taxation  involved  acts  as  a  serious  hindrance  to  enter-
prise. Moreover,  it  is  not  desirable  that  the  nation  should
be  divided  into  a  rentier  class  living  on  the  interest  of  its


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  FUTURE    169

war  debt  on  the  one  hand  and  the  remainder  of  the  population
paying  tribute  to  it  on  the  other.  For  this  reason  alone  and  still
more  for  reasons  of  a  more  strictly  financial  character  men-
tioned hereafter,  it  is  desirable  that  the  State  should  as  soon
as  possible  bring  an  end  to  its  borrowings,  both  internal  and
external.  We  shall  then  find  that  the  hard  lessons  of  the  past
apply  also  to  our  own  days  and  that  nations  as  well  as  indi-
viduals can  make  good  only  by  work  and  saving.

n

The  war  has  naturally  brought  with  it  very  great  economic
and  financial  changes.  In  general  it  may  be  said  that  the  last
four  years  show  all  the  characteristics  which  in  peace  time,
though  in  a  less  extravagant  degree,  accompany  a  period  of
great  expansion,  rapidly  rising  prices,  and  increased  purchasing
power.  Industry  has  been  at  full  blast ;  there  has  been  ample
work  for  all ,  and  wages  have  rapidly  increased .  Unfortunately,
too,  conditions  have  been  ideal  for  the  "  profiteer,"  large  and
small.  There  has  been  as  a  result  an  appearance  of  very
great  prosperity.  But,  as  already  stated,  it  is  not  generally
recognized  at  what  cost  to  our  economic  strength  this  super-
ficial prosperity  has  been  obtained.  It  would,  indeed,  be  an
extraordinary  paradox  if  the  gigantic  waste  of  material  which
every  day  of  this  great  war  has  caused  had  led  in  reality  to
increased  wealth.

The  main  outward  accompaniments  of  war  conditions  are,
indeed,  clear  to  every  one.  Prices  have  risen  since  1914  by
over  100  per  cent.  As  a  correspondent  in  The  New  Statesman
recently  put  it,  "  The  John  Bradbury  note  worth  £1  when
first  issued  is  to-day  when  spent  on  food  worth  85.  9(i."  This
rise  in  prices  has  been  stimulated  by  the  enormous  Government
war  borrowings  and  spendings.  With  each  rise  greater  supplies
of  currency  and  credit  are  needed  ;  these,  in  their  turn,  by
increasing  general  purchasing  power,  raise  prices.  Credit,
currency  and  prices  have  had  a  mutually  stimulating  effect.
Many  other  factors,  such  as  freights,  the  unlimited  demands  of
war  and  scarcity  of  materials  add  their  influence.  Not  only
are  prices  over  100  per  cent  higher,  but  owing  to  Government


170  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

restrictions,  Government  subsidies,  and  other  causes  they  are
unstable.  If  trade  were  entirely  unhampered  and  subsidies
withdrawn,  some  prices — e.g.,  of  bread — would  rise.  In
general,  prices  would  probably  fall.  A  similar  condition  of
very  high  prices  exists  in  a  greater  or  less  degree  in  all  belligerent
countries  and,  indeed,  in  all  neutral  countries  as  well.  But
until  more  normal  conditions  return,  it  is  impossible  to  see
whether  our  level  of  prices  is  higher  than  those  ruling  in  other
countries.  High  prices  are  especially  burdensome  to  a  great
importing  country  such  as  Great  Britain.  The  larger  the
country's  imports  in  excess  of  its  exports  the  greater  the
strain  thrown  upon  it  by  a  rise  in  prices.

In  many  instances  wages  have  increased  as  much  if  not  more
than  prices  ;  in  many  others,  not  as  much.  In  other  instances,
especially  for  comparatively  unskilled  munition  work,  wages
far  too  high  to  be  economically  possible  for  similar  classes
of  work  in  peace  time  are  being  paid.  The  normal  standard
rates  of  wages  have  disappeared  and  wages  are  as  unstable  as
prices.

Another  obvious  and  striking  change  has  been  the  enor-
mous increase  both  of  currency  and  of  banking  deposits.  In
their  report,  recently  published,  the  Committee  on  Currency  and
Foreign  Exchanges  estimate  that  legal  tender  in  the  United
Kingdom  has  increased  from  £179,000,000  at  the  beginning  of
the  war  to  £382,000,000  now,  and  banking  deposits  (exclud-
ing those  of  the  Bank  of  England)  from  £1,070,000,000  to
£1,742,000,000.

These  figures  would  in  normal  peace  times  be  regarded  as
evidence  of  a  great  increase  in  the  wealth  of  the  nation.  But
it  is  clear  a  similar  deduction  now  would  be  misleading.  Not-
withstanding all  the  exceptional  hard  work  and  saving  of  the
nation,  the  vast  waste  of  war  has  undoubtedly  largely  reduced
our  capital  wealth.  We  have  let  our  national  plant  run  down  ;
our  railways,  roads,  houses,  and  so  forth  have  fallen  into  dis-
repair. We  have,  indeed,  very  largely  suspended  that  general
work  of  renewal  and  repair  which  absorbs  perhaps  one-tenth
of  the  country's  economic  energy  every  year.  We  have,  more-
over, disposed  of  a  vast  mass  of  wealth  in  the  form  of  our
foreign  securities.    Mr.  Bonar  Law  has  recently  told  us  that


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  FUTURE    171

we  have  sold  or  pledged  to  the  United  States  practically  the
whole  of  our  American  Railway  and  Industrial  investments,
"  the  finest  of  our  Foreign  securities,"  amounting  to  about
£600,000,000.  But  this  is  not  nearly  all.  We  have  in  addition
incurred  an  enormous  uncovered  indebtedness  abroad,  rendered
necessary  by  our  purchases  on  our  own  and  our  Allies'  behalf.
Ever  since  the  beginning  of  the  war  our  imports  have  been
abnormally  high  and  our  exports  abnormally  low  ;  at  this
moment  our  imports,  according  to  official  figures,  are  at  the
rate  of  over  £700,000,000  a  year  more  than  our  exports.
What  we  can  still  set  against  that  figure  in  the  way  of  interest
on  capital  invested  abroad,  freights,  and  other  earnings  it  is
impossible  to  say,  but  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  we  are  outrun-
ning the  constable  to  a  very  great  extent.  The  consequence
is  seen  in  the  huge  debts  which  we  have  incurred  to  the  United
States  and  to  neutrals  in  order  to  pay  for  them.  The  Chan-
cellor of  the  Exchequer  has  recently  stated  that  our  debts  to
the  United  States  will  shortly  reach  the  figure  of  £1,000,000,000,
and  unquestionably  we  owe  great  sums  also  to  neutral  coun-
tries. It  is  true  that  our  Allies  and  ex-AUies  owe  us  still
more  than  we  owe  other  countries,  and  that  from  that  point
of  view  our  account  still  more  than  balances.  But  while
we  must  reckon  on  having  to  meet  all  our  obligations,  we  cannot
be  so  certain  of  our  debtors.  Russia's  debt  of  £570,000,000
sterling  does  not  look  good,  and  there  are  others  whom  we  may
not  wish  to  press.

What  our  real  loss  is  no  one  can  calculate  with  any  great
degree  of  accuracy.  It  has  been  estimated,  however,  that  the
country  will  have  lost  well  over  £2,000,000,000  sterling  of
its  capital  wealth,  or,  in  other  words,  perhaps  about  one-seventh
of  its  pre-war  accumulations.

The  war,  therefore,  while  causing  an  enormous  increase
in  credit  and  currency  and  the  usual  evidences  of  wealth,
has  actually  greatly  reduced  our  real  wealth.  Until  we  have
restored  it  to  its  pre-war  level,  our  national  income,  and,  there-
fore, our  average  prosperity,  will  be  less  than  before  the  war,
and  we  shall  suffer  from  all  the  inconveniences  of  a  scarcity
of  capital.

The  reduction  in  our  capital  has,  indeed,  serious  conse-


172  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

quences.  Until  it  is  restored  the  amount  of  wealth  which  the
nation  can  produce  is  diminished.  In  other  words,  the  national
dividend,  the  sole  source  from  which  wages,  interest,  and  profits
are  paid,  is  reduced.  We  may  with  good  fortune  rapidly
replace  our  losses,  but  for  the  time  being  we  shall  be  poorer.
The  smaller,  too,  the  amount  of  capital — and  by  capital  is  not
meant  credit — the  more  restricted  will  be  the  opportunities
for  employment.  And,  lastly,  the  rate  of  interest  which  capital
can  secure  from  the  total  product  of  industry  will  be  higher.
All  these  are  serious  handicaps  to  the  spread  of  greater  well-
being  among  the  less  fortunate  sections  of  the  population.
They  can  only  be  removed  by  work  and  saving.

These  great  changes  in  the  economic  sphere  have  had  a
corresponding  and  serious  reaction  on  our  financial  situation.
Our  vast  foreign  indebtedness,  together  with  the  inflation  of
credit  and  currency,  has  led  inevitably  to  the  entire  suspension
of  the  usual  method  by  which  we  regulate  the  delicate  working  of
our  international  financial  machinery  and  our  foreign  exchanges.
The  pivot  of  all  that  machinery  is  the  maintenance  of  the  gold
standard,  the  free  import  and  export  of  gold,  and  in  case  of
need,  when  the  balance  of  our  foreign  account  is  against  us,  the
raising  of  the  Bank  of  England's  rate  of  discount  for  the  pur-
pose of  attracting  gold  from  abroad  and  reducing  trade  and
industrial  activity  at  home.  By  these  means  we  are  accustomed
to  regulate  our  currency,  our  foreign  exchanges,  our  level  of
internal  credit,  and  our  prices  in  relation  to  world  prices.  Since
1915  we  have,  however,  been  forced  to  regulate  our  foreign
exchanges,  not  by  the  movement  of  gold  or  by  the  Bank  of
England's  rate  of  discount,  but  by  external  borrowings.  If  these
borrowings  were  to  cease,  our  exchanges  would  immediately
collapse.  Similarly,  with  the  abandonment  of  the  gold  stan-
dard, the  automatic  maintenance  of  our  currency  at  par  value
with  gold  has  ceased,  nor  is  there  any  means  at  present  of  testing
whether,  and,  if  so,  to  what  extent  it  is  depreciated  ;  our  level
of  prices  at  home  is  no  longer  kept  automatically  in  harmony
with  external  prices,  nor  is  there  any  brake  on  the  undue
inflation  of  internal  credit  such  as  the  Bank  of  England  was
previously  able  to  apply  through  the  raising  of  its  rate,  with
its  sobering  effect  on  industrial  activity.


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  FUTURE    173

III

Under  the  inexorable  pressure  of  war  we  have,  therefore,
been  swept  from  our  old  financial  moorings  and,  as  the  above
very  brief  analysis  sufficiently  shows,  we  have  under  compul-
sion embarked  on  an  uncharted  sea  which,  if  persisted  in  after
the  arrival  of  peace,  might  bring  us  to  the  unlimited  evils  of
great  over-expansion  and  currency  depreciation,  leading  to
an  ultimate  collapse.  Every  other  belligerent,  except  perhaps
the  United  States,  is  accompanying  us  on  the  same  journey.
Most  of  them,  indeed,  have  advanced  a  great  deal  further  along
the  road.  Nearly  every  prolonged  war  has  in  the  past  pro-
duced in  greater  or  less  degree  the  same  results,  whether  we
take  France  during  the  revolutionary  wars,  England  at  the
end  of  the  Napoleonic  era,  or  the  United  States  after  the  Civil
War.  In  all  of  them  we  see  over-expansion  of  credit  and
currency,  rising  prices  and  depreciated  exchanges,  symptoms
familiar  also  in  the  history  of  every  South  American  Republic.
An  extreme  example  may  be  found  to-day  in  the  new  Russian
Republic,  where,  as  the  writer  was  recently  told  by  a  traveller
fresh  from  Petrograd,  the  peasants  now  weigh  instead  of
counting  their  paper  money.

None  of  these  evils  was  to  be  altogether  avoided  in  this
country  in  the  last  four  years.  But  if  we  are  to  recover
financial  health,  they  are  to  be  remedied  as  soon  as  possible.
That  nation  will  recover  quickest  after  the  war  which  corrects
soonest  any  depreciation  in  currency,  reduces  by  production
and  saving  its  inflated  credit,  brings  down  its  level  of  prices,
and  restores  the  free  import  and  export  of  gold.  These  con-
ditions, which  are  desirable  for  other  nations,  are  to  us,  as  the
greatest  importing  and  exporting  nation  and  the  financial
centre  of  the  world,  essential.

With  all  our  wealth  of  financial  knowledge  and  experience
behind  us  it  should  be  easy  for  us  to  steer  the  right  path —
though  it  will  not  be  always  a  pleasant  one — amongst  the
dangers  of  the  future.  Every  consideration  leads  to  the
view  that  the  restoration  of  the  gold  standard — whether  or
not  it  can  be  achieved  quickly — should  be  our  aim.  Only
by  that  means  can  we  secure  that  our  level  of  prices  shall  be  as


174  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

low  as  or  lower  than  prices  in  other  countries,  and  on  that
condition  depends  the  recovery  of  our  export  trade  and  the
prevention  of  excessive  imports.  Only  by  that  means  can  we
provide  against  and  abolish  the  depreciation  in  our  currency
which,  though  the  prohibition  against  dealings  in  gold  prevents
our  measuring  it,  almost  certainly  exists,  and  safeguard  our-
selves against  excessive  grants  of  credit.

What,  then,  does  the  restoration  of  the  gold  standard  involve?
It  involves  some  contraction  at  any  rate  of  currency  and
credit,  the  cessation  of  great  internal  Government  loans  and
Government  borrowings  abroad,  the  maintenance  of  high
taxation  to  provide  not  only  interest  on  War  Loans,  but  a
Sinking  Fund  for  their  reduction,  the  paying  off  by  the  public
out  of  savings  of  the  loans  made  to  it  by  the  banks,  and  the
restriction  of  all  unnecessary  imports.  It  is  not  necessary  to
suppose  that  the  process  of  contraction  in  this  country  no^d
be  very  severe.  It  is  unlikely  that  prices  will  for  a  long  time,  if
ever,  return  to  a  pre-war  level,  and  higher  prices  mean  a  higher
level  all  round  of  credit  and  currency.  Moreover,  it  is  not
certain  that  our  prices  even  now  are  higher  than  those  ruling
in  the  other  chief  centres  of  the  world.  Some  contraction,
however,  there  must  be.  Contraction  and  falling  prices  are
never  altogether  pleasant.  It  is  not  likely  to  be  a  period  of
buoyancy  and  elation,  during  which  many  new  schemes  are
entered  upon  and  when  sometimes  production  makes  a  great
bound  forward.  Profits  artificially  heightened  by  inflation
are  reduced  by  falling  prices.  The  tendency  towards  rapid  new
development  is  checked.  It  is  a  period  of  digestion  after  too
full  a  meal,  and  a  period,  too,  when  wages  either  fall  or  remain
stationary.  Nevertheless,  if  we  can  avoid  serious  troubles,
financial  and  industrial,  and  guard  against  extensive  unem-
ployment, real  wages,  it  is  to  be  hoped,  may  remain  as  high
if  not  higher  than  before.  Wages  do  not  usually  fall  as  far
or  as  quickly  as  prices.  Rising  prices  are  good  for  the  pro-
moter and  the  industrialist :  falling  prices  for  the  wage-earner
and  those  having  fixed  salaries  and  incomes.  It  is  true  that
in  a  period  of  rising  prices  employment  for  the  time  being  is
plentiful  and  that  the  danger  of  falling  prices  is  temporary
lack  of  employment.     While  this  is  a  danger  which  must  be


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  FUTURE    176

guarded  against,  it  is  not  to  be  avoided  by  the  opposite  policy
of  inflation,  which,  while  perhaps  giving  us  a  further  period  of
feverish  activity,  would  ultimately  lead  to  troubles  from  which
our  industry  might  not  recover  for  years.  There  is  no  cure
save  through  the  increase  of  our  national  capital  and  our
national  dividend.  If  both  are  smaller  than  before  the  war,  the
amount  available  for  labour  and  capital  is  smaller.

This  is  the  hard  truth  which  should  be  grasped  firmly  by
our  statesmen  and  politicians.  There  is  a  widespread  opinion
in  favour  of  great  extensions  of  credit  and  of  vast  schemes  of
Government  expenditure.  State  guaranteed  credit  is  to  be
the  panacea  which  is  to  free  us  from  all  danger  of  stagnation
and  unemployment.  This,  indeed,  is  a  seductive  doctrine
which  has  often  led  statesmen  and  legislators  into  a  quagmire,
and  pressure  in  these  directions  will  probably  be  strong.

It  will  be  enforced  by  the  very  real  and  urgent  necessity  of
providing  employment  for  vast  masses  of  men  and  women  and
by  great  and  attractive  schemes  of  reconstruction.  Employment
requires  industry  to  be  active,  and  industry  is  likely  to  say
that  the  only  thing  required  for  activity  is  credit.  That  it
must  have  sufficient  credit  goes  without  saying.  But  we
should  beware  of  the  dangers  we  are  running  and  guard  against
them.  The  buoyant  optimism,  which  perhaps  is  the  out-
standing quality  of  Mr.  Lloyd  George,  will  unquestionably
chafe  at  ideas  of  "  contraction."  But  let  him  remember  that
he  cannot  avoid  the  operation  of  economic  laws  by  ignoring
them  and  that  all  history  shows  that  the  punishment  of
violating  them  is  inexorable.

We  may  indeed  expect  to  see  revived  and  adapted  to  modern
circumstances  all  the  old  controversies  between  the  "  cheap
money  men"  and  the  "dear  money  men,"  between  "contrac-
tionists  "  and  ''expansionists."  In  every  age  there  have  been
many  to  urge  that  the  remedy  of  such  evils  is  not  the  painful
process  of  contraction,  but  a  further  extension  of  credit  and
further  issues  of  currency.  Thus  in  Revolutionary  France,
Mirabeau  passionately  demanded  the  further  issue  of
"  assignats."  Were  they  not  secured  on  "  real  property,
the  most  secure  of  all  possessions,  the  soil  on  which  we  tread  "  ?
Just  as  in  our  day  we  are  urged  that  the  first  and  last  condition


176  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

of  reconstruction  and  the  restoration  of  credit  is  the  grant  of
unlimited  advances  under  State  guarantee  against  War  Loan,
*  *  the  premier  British  security. ' '  Mirabeau's  policy  was  pursued
until  a  pair  of  boots  cost  over  £100  in  the  depreciated  currency.
Then  the  collapse  came.  In  this  country  the  inflation  and
depreciation  resulting  from  the  Napoleonic  Wars  were  far  less.
But  depreciation  existed  and  a  fierce  battle  ensued  between
those  who  desired  inflation  and  those  who  demanded  restric-
tion, the  victory  ultimately  resting  with  the  latter.  In  the
United  States  the  Civil  War  between  ^orth  and  South  left
the  currency  immensely  depreciated.  Congress  wavered  too
long  before  steeling  itself  to  the  inevitable  measures.  "  The
Government's  financial  recklessness  was  readily  imitated
by  the  community  at  large  :  debt  was  the  order  of  the  day
in  the  affau's  of  both."  "  In  1873  this  house  of  cards  collapsed."
"  American  prices,  long  out  of  joint  with  the  markets  of  the
world,'*  fell  to  a  normal  level.  "  With  the  bursting  of  the
bubble  of  infiated  debt  and  inflated  prices  the  excessive  impor-
tations ceased."  *

"  A  disordered  currency,"  said  Daniel  Webster,  "  is  one  of
the  greatest  political  evils."  "  Ordinary  tyranny,  oppression,
excessive  taxation,  these  bear  lightly  on  the  happiness  of  the
mass  of  the  community  compared  with  fraudulent  currencies
and  the  robberies  committed  by  a  depreciated  paper."

It  may  be  objected  that  no  one  proposes  to  depreciate  our
currency.  But  a  further  over-extension  of  credit  would
undoubtedly  tend  towards  it.  It  is  true  that  the  over-manu-
facture of  credit  is  by  no  means  so  fatal  as  the  over-manu-
facture of  inconvertible  paper  money.  A  Government  has
neither  to  put  up  security  nor  pay  interest  on  paper  money.
A  customer  who  demands  credit  from  his  bank  must  do  both.
Moreover,  a  customer  is  under  pressure  to  repay  or  reduce  his
loan.  A  Government  can  only  withdraw  paper  money  with
difiiculty  and  by  a  complete  reversal  of  policy.  Nevertheless,
an  extension  of  credit,  sufficient  by  increasing  purchasing
power  again  to  raise  prices,  will  involve  an  increase  in  currency
and  result  in  its  further  depreciation,  with  all  its  evils  and
dangers.

*  Forty  Years  of  American  Finance.     A.  D.  Noyes.


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  FUTURE    177

Moreover,  admitting  as  every  one  will  the  necessity  of  credit
for  legitimate  and  productive  objects  after  peace,  we  should
still  not  delude  ourselves  into  the  belief  that  to  create  credit  is
to  create  wealth.  However  much  we  create  credit  we  do  not
thereby  create  food  or  ships  or  raw  materials.  Credit  is  a
means,  and  an  invaluable  means,  of  enabling  us  to  utilize
existing  capital  and  wealth  to  the  best  advantage.  But  the
real  factors  of  production  are  labour  and  capital,  and  our
creation  of  credit  must  bear  relation  to  the  amount  of  both
available.  The  amount  of  capital — i.e.,  food,  raw  materials,
manufactured  articles,  etc. — which  we  have  in  this  country
or  shall  be  rich  enough  to  obtain  from  abroad  will  probably
be  for  some  time  more  limited  than  before  the  war.

For  the  same  reason  we  cannot  permanently  reduce  the  rate
of  interest  by  increasing  the  supply  of  credit.  We  may  make
"  short  "  money  easy.  But  the  rate  for  permanent  capital
is  determined  by  the  supply  and  demand  of  real  capital,  not  of
credit.

Those  who  insist  on  the  importance  of  credit  to  the  exclusion
of  all  other  factors  ignore  and  are  inclined  even  to  deny  one
cardinal  point,  namely,  the  intimate  relation  between  our
internal  and  our  external  problems.

We  shall  still  perhaps  be  the  greatest  importing  and  exporting
nation  in  the  world.  On  the  prosperity  of  our  foreign  trade
depends  the  prosperity  of  our  home  trade.  If  our  foreign
trade  fails  to  revive,  we  shall  have  much  unemployment,
reduced  purchasing  power  among  our  people  and  stagnation.
Our  foreign  trade  is  vitally  influenced  through  the  medium  of
prices,  which  is  the  link  between  our  internal  and  external
problems.  If  by  an  over-extension  of  credit  internal  prices
rise,  a  danger  especially  to  be  feared  since  increased  purchasing
power  would  be  exerted  on  a  limited  supply  of  materials,  im-
ports would  be  encouraged,  exports  impeded  and  extravagance
stimulated.  Our  foreign  exchanges  would  move  more  and  more
against  us  and  we  should  be  driven  farther  and  farther  away
from  a  return  to  the  gold  standard.  Ultimately,  when  we
could  no  longer  find  means  to  pay  for  our  imports,  the  whole
structure  would  collapse.  Our  recovery  after  the  war  depends
largely  on  the  level  of  our  prices  being  down  to  or  below  those

N


178  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

prevailing  in  other  countries.    Whatever  course  tends  to  in-
crease them  will  be  found  prejudicial.


IV

The  aim  of  the  foregoing  pages  has  been  to  bring  into
prominence  certain  principles  which  must  guide  our  financial
policy  after  the  war  rather  than  to  lay  down  the  exact  measures
which  will  have  to  be  taken.  As  the  Report,  just  issued,  of
the  Committee  on  Currency  and  Foreign  Exchanges  states  :

These  will  depend  upon  a  variety  of  conditions  which  cannot  be
foreseen,  in  particular  the  general  movements  of  world  prices  and
the  currency  policy  adopted  by  other  countries.  But  it  will  be  clear
that  the  conditions  necessary  to  the  maintenance  of  an  effective  gold
standard  in  this  country  no  longer  exist,  and  it  is  imperative  that
they  should  be  restored  without  delay.  After  the  war  oiu*  gold  holdings
•will  no  longer  be  protected  by  the  submarine  danger,  and  it  will  not  be
possible  indefinitely  to  continue  to  support  the  exchanges  with  foreign
countries  by  borrowing  abroad.  Unless  the  machinery  which  long
experience  has  shown  to  be  the  only  effective  remedy  for  an  adverse
balance  of  trade  and  an  undue  growth  of  credit  is  once  more  brought
into  play,  there  will  be  very  grave  danger  of  a  credit  expansion  in  this
country  and  a  foreign  drain  of  gold  which  might  jeopardize  the  con-
vertibility of  our  note  issue  and  the  international  trade  position  of  the
country.  The  uncertainty  of  the  monetary  situation  will  handicap
our  industry,  our  position  as  an  international  financial  centre  will
suffer,  and  our  general  commercial  status  in  the  eyes  of  the  world  will
be  lowered.  We  are  glad  to  find  that  there  was  no  difference  of  opinion
among  the  witnesses  who  appeared  before  us  as  to  the  vital  importance
of  these  matters.

While  the  unknown  factors,  of  which  account  will  have  to
be  taken,  are  numerous,  the  general  direction  of  the  goal  at
which  we  must  aim  is  clear.  Nevertheless,  that  goal  is  likely
to  be  difficult  to  reach,  and  in  any  case  must,  it  is  probable,
be  approached  only  gradually.  The  problem  of  the  immediate
employment  of  some  eight  or  nine  millions  of  munition  workers
and  soldiers  will  be  so  vast  and  pressing  and  the  results  of
failure  possibly  so  calamitous,  that  the  ulterior  consequences
of  any  means  which  may  appear  momentarily  efficacious  will
run  the  risk  of  being  disregarded.  The  Government  will  be
urged  to  raise  large  sums  for  State  undertakings  and  public


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  FUTUBE    179

works  of  every  description  ;  industry  will  claim  that  its  capacity
to  provide  employment  depends  merely  on  the  grant  to  it  of
exceptional  credit ;  Labom*  is  likely  to  protest  against  any
policy  which  may  involve  not  merely  a  fall  in  prices  but  also  a
fall  in  nominal  wages,  even  though  real  wages  do  not  fall  at  all.

While  our  statesmen  should  allow  no  pressure  to  weaken
their  grasp  on  the  fundamental  conditions  of  our  financial  and
industrial  prosperity  as  outlined  above,  it  is  obvious  that  a
policy  involving  changes  in  existing  conditions  must  be  gradual.
Violent  changes  are  destructive  of  industry  and  trade.  Con-
fidence is  the  basis  of  credit.  With  instability  confidence
disappears,  legitimate  trade  and  commerce  cease  and  specula-
tion takes  their  place.  The  equilibrium  between  production
and  purchasing  power,  on  which  stability  depends,  is  difiicult
enough  to  maintain  even  in  normal  times.  The  war  equi-
librium is  wholly  artificial,  and  a  normal  peace  equilibrium
will  be  extremely  diJBficult  to  attain  without  violent  oscilla-
tions caused  by  abnormal  conditions  both  in  our  own  and  other
countries.  A  too  rapid  fall  in  prices  might  produce  both  an
industrial  and  a  social  crisis.  The  return  to  more  normal
conditions,  while  deliberately  pursued,  should  accordingly
be  gradual.  Government  expenditure  will  inevitably  be  very
large  for  some  time  to  come,  and  Government  loans  may  be
required  for  large  public  undertakings.  A  good  deal  of  ex-
penditure of  this  kind  can  hardly  be  avoided,  notwithstanding
the  urgent  necessity  for  the  cessation  of  Government  borrow-
ing or  at  least  its  reduction  to  the  narrowest  limits.  But  we
should  embark  upon  it  with  our  eyes  open,  and  it  should  be
carefully  scrutinized  to  insure  that  it  is  not  merely  not  waste-
ful but  really  reproductive  socially  and  economically.

Similarly,  in  the  case  of  credit  facilities,  it  would  be  foohsh
to  seek  to  reduce  over-expansion  at  once  by  refusing  to  industry
what  it  legitimately  requires.  Our  banking  institutions  must
be  ready  for  considerable  demands.  It  is  true  that  British
industry  has  had  enormous  sums  spent  on  it  during  the  war
and  has,  in  many  ways,  been  entirely  renewed.  But  large
sums  will  no  doubt  be  required  to  re-equip  it  as  a  peace  and
not  a  war  machine.  Whether  credit  in  sufficient  amounts
will  be  available  from  existing  institutions  is  a  matter  on  which


180  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

opinions  may  differ.  In  view  of  the  limited  supplies  of
materials  in  many  directions,  and  probably  the  world's  reduced
purchasing  power  in  many  directions  also,  there  is  a  risk  of
exaggerating  what  will  be  required.  Over-production  and  a
glut  is  to  be  avoided  as  much  as  under-production,  and  there
seems  no  good  reason  why  existing  credit  institutions  should
not  be  able  to  provide  all  reasonable  banking  facilities.  Their
ability  in  this  direction  will  depend  largely  on  the  reduction
by  the  Government  of  its  floating  debt,  which  the  banks
hold  in  large  amounts,  and  on  the  saving  powers  of  the  com-
munity, enabling  it  to  repay  advances  made  by  them.

The  question  of  the  supply  of  permanent  capital  on  a  large
scale  to  British  industry  is  somewhat  different.  It  is  arguable
whether  the  financial  machinery  of  London  is  particularly
well  adapted  for  assisting  large-scale  British  industry  to  get
into  touch  with  the  British  investor.  It  has  been  urged  that
there  was  room  for  one  or  more  institutions  which  should  devote
themselves  more  particularly  to  the  financing  of  British
industry  and  the  issuing  of  industrial  securities  to  the  British
investor.  Large  new  institutions  have  since  been  created,  but
whether  they  propose  to  attempt  to  fill  this  particular  gap
appears  uncertain.

Much  will  depend  on  the  attitude  of  the  British  investor
towards  industry.  For  a  good  many  years  he  has  preferred
foreign  and  colonial  rather  than  home  industrial  securities.
If  he  is  convinced  that  British  industry  will  henceforth  offer
a  secure  and  attractive  field,  sufficient  capital  should  be  forth-
coming. If,  on  the  other  hand,  troubles  between  labour  and
capital,  restriction  of  output,  undue  Government  interference
and  the  handicap  of  a  profits  tax,  which,  at  any  rate  as  at
present  constituted,  is  equally  harmful  both  to  labour  and
capital,  render  investment  both  insecure  and  unprofitable,
industry  will  undoubtedly  suffer  from  lack  of  capital  and  a  very
high  rate  of  interest.  It  is  to  the  interest  of  all  parties  to
prevent  this  misfortune,  since  industry  must  look  in  the  main
for  its  money  not  to  Government  loans  or  temporary  banking
credits,  but  to  the  savings  of  the  investor.

The  most  difficult  problem  before  us,  and  the  one  which
may  most  retard  any  return  to  a  free  gold  market,  is  our


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  FUTURE    181

foreign  indebtedness.  It  is  on  the  settlement  of  this  question
that  the  condition  of  our  foreign  exchanges  will  in  the  main
depend.  A  free  gold  market  immediately  after  the  war  might
result  in  all  our  gold  being  drained  away  at  once  to  meet
the  enormous  claims  of  foreign  nations  upon  us.  It  will  require
time  to  settle  the  most  .pressing  of  them  and  to  arrange  that
so  far  as  possible  the  repayment  of  a  great  part  is  postponed
till  a  more  convenient  season.

If,  as  one  may  hope,  this  question  can  be  treated  in  a  broad
and  satisfactory  way  both  by  the  Governments  and  the
banking  institutions  concerned,  the  greatest  obstacle  to  a
speedy  recovery  of  our  exchanges  would  be  removed.


The  task  before  Governments  and  Parliaments  in  the  next
few  years  in  following  the  strait  and  narrow  way  in  finance
is  not  likely  to  be  an  easy  one.  But  the  danger  that  they  may
fall  into  temptation  is  not  by  any  means  the  only  one  ahead
of  us.  While  a  bad  financial  policy  may  easily  ruin  the  most
industrious  and  thrifty  nation,  a  sound  one  will  not  of  itself
achieve  anything  without  effort  and  sacrifice  on  the  part  of  all.
Qur  financial  prosperity  is  not  to  be  secured  by  any  juggling.
It  depends  in  the  last  resort  on  the  nation  having  a  surplus  of
income  over  expenditure,  of  production  over  consumption —
on  its  repairing  by  economy  and  hard  work  the  losses  and
waste  of  war.

It  is  doubtful  whether  our  minds  are  sufficiently  prepared
for  the  difficult  times  in  store  for  us,  whether,  indeed,  as  a
whole,  we  are  not  in  blissful  ignorance  of  the  efforts  and  sacri-
fices which  we  shall  all  be  called  upon  to  make.  The  founda-
tions of  our  economic  structure  are  clear  to  very  few,  and  the
experience  of  the  great  bulk  of  the  population  during  the  war
has  been  such  as  entirely  to  mislead  them  as  to  its  economic
consequences.  Our  national  wealth  is  much  less,  but  our
people  have  much  greater  expectations.  They  are  not  aware
that  their  easier  times  during  the  war  have  been  made  possible
only  by  the  most  spendthrift — necessarily  spendthrift — course.
They  are  far  from  foreseeing  that  it  will  be  harder,  not  easier,


182  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

for  a  time  at  any  rate,  than  it  was  before  to  maintain  the
pre-war  standard  of  life,  and  that  no  change,  however  radical,
towards  socialism  or  national  guilds  or  any  other  alleged
means  of  securing  a  better  distribution  of  wealth  as  apart
from  its  production,  can  alter  this  hard  fact.  It  is  of  the  first
importance  that  the  main  elements  of  the  economic  problem
should,  if  possible,  be  brought  home  to  them.

The  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  has  recently  informed  us
that  before  the  war  our  total  national  income  was  estimated
at  roughly  £7,000,000  a  day,  or,  divided  equally  among
45,000,000  men,  women,  and  children,  about  35.  4:d.  per  day
per  head.  The  great  rise  in  prices  would  by  now  have  perhaps
doubled  this  sum,  measured  in  money.  But  the  real  income
measured  in  goods  is  not  more,  but  less,  since  our  production
of  peace  goods,  together  with  what  we  buy  or  secure  as  tribute
from  other  nations,  will  be  less  than  it  was  before  the  war.  If,
therefore,  our  national  income  were  absolutely  equally  divided,
something  over  35.  a  day  at  pre-war  prices  is  what  we  should
each  get ;  that  is  all  we  obtain  by  our  productive  efforts,  or
as  a  return  for  capital  or  services  lent  to  other  nations.  It
is  not  a  princely  sum  ;  it  would,  indeed,  be  for  a  great  many
people  a  good  deal  more  than  they  get  now  ;  for  a  good  many
a  little  less  ;  for  a  good  many  more  vastly  less.  Even  that
sum  can  only  be  obtained  if  our  productive  effort  is  as  large  as
it  was  before  the  war.  If  we  work  less  hard,  or  reduce  produc-
tion by  internal  strife,  we  shall  get  less.

The  efforts  of  most  reformers,  radical  and  otherwise,  are
bent  at  present  on  the  better  distribution  of  wealth,  an  aim
which  will  have  every  one's  sympathy.  It  is  essential  that  we
should  secure  a  fair  standard  of  life  to  every  one  who  will
work.  But  there  is  a  danger  that  the  movement  against
capital  and  enterprise,  against  interests  and  profits,  which  is
so  widespread  among  the  workers  to-day,  will  lead  them  into
courses  fatal  to  themselves  and  the  whole  community.  It  is  not
surprising  that  the  distribution  of  wealth  should  appear  to
them  more  important  by  far  than  its  production.  Their
gain  from  increased  production  is  often  small,  while  their
resentment  has  been  fanned  during  the  war  by  flagrant
"profiteering,"  for  which  conditions  have  given  such  ample


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  FUTURE    183

opportunity.  Yet  it  may  be  urged  with  great  force  that  the
distribution  problem  can  only  be  successfully  tackled  through
that  of  production,  and  that  if  labour  thinks  only  of  distribu-
tion and  forgets  production,  we  shall  have  little  chance  of
recovery.  The  best  distribution  in  the  world — if  an  equal
distribution  is  the  best — would  give  us  each  something  over
35.  a  day  (at  pre-war  prices).  If  profits  are  reduced  till  there
is  no  incentive  to  enterprise,  and  the  return  on  capital  is  reduced
till  there  is  no  incentive  to  saving,  the  national  income  will  be
immediately  and  disastrously  reduced,  and  the  average  savings
per  head  with  it.  The  consequences  of  thinking  only  of  the
distribution  of  wealth  as  distinct  from  production  is  seen  at
this  moment  in  Russia,  where  the  great  proportion  of  factories
is  likely  before  long  to  be  closed,  and  the  town  population  at
any  rate  to  be  without  the  necessities  of  a  civilized  life.  Russia
is  not  an  industrial  state.  The  great  bulk  of  its  population
is  agricultural  and  can  itself  produce  the  primary  necessities
of  food  and  clothing.  It  can  therefore  live  its  simple  life,
even  under  Bolshevist  anarchy.  But  a  similar  experience
would  reduce  a  highly  organized  industrial  and  importing
community  like  ours  after  a  few  weeks  to  general  ruin  and
starvation.

The  corollary  of  better  production  is  increased  saving,  so  that
we  may  economize  our  consumption  of  what  we  produce,  and
thus  increase  our  exports,  diminish  our  imports,  and  so  re-
establish our  financial  position.  We  have  always  been  a
wasteful  nation,  and  while  the  war  has  wrought  a  great  change
in  the  nation's  habits  of  thrift,  there  is  still  room  for  much
improvement  both  among  the  general  community  and  also
in  Government  departments.  Wastefulness  by  the  rich  is
much  more  blameworthy  than  wastefulness  by  the  poor.  The
poor  damage  themselves  ;  the  rich  damage  others,  not  them-
selves. It  behoves  the  rich,  therefore,  to  set  the  proper  example.
A  study  of  Mr.  Hartley  Withers's  excellent  book  Poverty  and
Waste  is  recommended  to  every  one  who  regards  extravagance
as  beneficial  to  the  community.

But  for  the  less  well-off,  too,  economy  is,  in  their  own  in-
terests, imperative.  It  is  a  matter  of  first-class  importance  to
make  permanent  these  habits  of  saving  which  the  National


184  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

War  Savings  Movement  has  done  so  much  to  create.  It  is
useless  to  hope  for  better  distribution  if  higher  wages  mean
merely  extravagance.  That  is  the  certain  way  of  making
the  rich  richer  and  the  poor  poorer.  The  wealth  which  the
wage-earners  earn  is  immediately  diverted  again  into  the
pockets  of  the  capitalists,  great  and  small.

There  should  be  some  easy  and  attractive  method  of  investing
small  savings,  and  there  seems  every  reason,  therefore,  why  the
Government  should  continue  permanently  its  machinery  for
encouraging  saving  and  investment  in  Government  securities.

There  are  to-day  17,000,000  persons  each  possessing  Govern-
ment securities  of  one  kind  or  another.  It  is  important  that
these  persons  should  all  continue  the  habit  of  investment  so
formed,  that  their  number  should  be  increased,  and  that  the
opportunities  oJBfered  them  during  the  war  should  be  con-
tinued.

VI

The  whole  nation  is  looking  forward  with  eagerness  to  a
bold,  far-reaching  and  effective  policy  of  reconstruction.
There  is  so  much  that  urgently  requires  doing.  An  improve-
ment in  the  often  wretched  and  disgraceful  conditions  of
housing,  upon  which  all  other  reforms  largely  depend,  higher
wages,  a  higher  standard  of  life  in  general,  a  permanent  im-
provement in  agriculture,  great  schemes  of  industrial  develop-
ment, all  these  are  urgently  caUed  for,  nearly  aU  of  them
absolutely  necessary.  To  many  who  earnestly  desire  to  see
established  at  once  "  a  new  heaven,  and  a  new  earth  "  it  will
be  distasteful  to  face  the  financial  and  economic  difficulties
which  have  been  outlined  in  the  preceding  pages.  Yet,  since
they  cannot  be  evaded,  our  success  in  reconstruction  depends
on  our  facing  them,  learning  the  salutary  lessons  they  teach
us,  and  then  overcoming  them.  There  is  no  need  for  pessimism.
They  can  be  overcome,  but  only  on  one  condition.  Mr.  Lloyd
George,  to  whom  our  country  owes  an  immeasurable  debt,
is  stimulating  us  with  a  great  hope,  a  hope  for  a  better  and
happier  life  for  all.  Let  him  use  his  great  power  to  impress
equally  strongly  upon  his  countrymen  that  this  hope  can
never  be  fulfilled  except  by  sacrifices,  and  by  hard  work,  by


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  FUTURE    186

every  labourer  being  worthy  of  his  hire.  The  greatest  sacri-
fices— measured  at  any  rate  in  worldly  wealth — must  be  made
by  the  rich.  The  heavy  burdens  to  be  borne  must  be  shared
according  to  the  ability  to  bear  them.  But  that  is  only  the
beginning.  The  reconstruction  of  our  national  life  is  not  a
matter  of  "  ninepence  for  fourpence."  It  can  only  be  secured
by  the  joint  efforts  of  a  united  nation.


VIII

FINANCE  AND  REPARATION

(June,  1919)


The  view  has  always  been  held  in  some  quarters  that  the
end  of  the  war  would  see  a  great  and  immediate  development
of  industry  and  trade  and  very  considerable  prosperity,  at
any  rate  for  a  limited  period.  That  is  not  our  opinion.  The
resumption  of  normal  conditions  can  only  be  gradual.  Credit
and  confidence  are  now  largely  lacking,  and  their  restoration
to  pre-war  standards  must  necessarily  in  any  circumstances
be  a  matter  of  time,  and  dependent  on  the  gradual  readjust-
ment of  all  the  political,  economic,  financial  and  moral  dis-
harmonies caused  by  the  war,  and  also  on  the  reaccumulation
of  some  at  any  rate  of  the  vast  amount  of  capital  which  has
been  destroyed.  It  is  certain  that  whatever  we  do,  European
standards  of  living  have  for  some  time  got  to  be  lower  than
before  the  war.  Few  people  in  England  realize  the  terrible
conditions  of  life  in  very  large  parts  of  Europe  where  everything
is  lacking,  even  food,  and  where  industries  cannot  get  started
because  they  have  not  even  the  raw  materials  with  which  to
begin.  Even  in  the  countries  near  us,  like  Belgium,  we  do  not
realize  the  enormous  obstacles  which  prevent  industry  getting
thoroughly  under  way.  Belgium  has  lost  her  markets  ;  most
of  her  neighbours  have  little  purchasing  power,  currency  and
exchanges  are  depreciated ;  prices  are  very  high,  she  cannot
compete  against  American  and  Japanese  products.  The  same
is  true,  more  or  less,  of  all  nations,  including  our  own,  and  many,
of  course,  are  in  a  vastly  worse  condition  even  than  Belgium.
We  all  of  us  are  dependent  on  the  prosperity  of  each  other,

186


FINANCE  AND  REPARATION  187

and  we  must  all  go  ahead  hand  in  hand  together.     If  our
neighbours  are  poverty-stricken,  we  shall  be  poor.

Consider  for  a  moment  the  difficulties  of  the  other  great
European  Powers.  France  has  lost  between  one  and  two  million
of  her  best  men.  A  considerable  part  of  her  industry  is  for
the  time  being  ruined.  Her  coal  mines  are  useless  for  some
years.  Moreover,  French  investors  were  either  not  so  far-
sighted  or  so  lucky  as  British  investors.  While  the  British
invested,  in  the  main,  in  the  New  World,  the  French  investor
lent  his  money  to  European  Governments,  to  Russia,  to  Austria-
Hungary,  to  Turkey,  or  to  the  Balkan  States.  In  consequence,
France,  which  before  the  war  drew  an  income  from  abroad  of
perhaps  £120,000,000  r.  year,  will  now  draw  practically  nothing,
at  any  rate  for  some  years.  Again,  France  exported  particularly
articles  of  luxury  of  all  kinds.  These  are  the  trades  which
will  be  peculiarly  hit  by  the  poverty  of  Europe.  France  has
also  great  difficulties  of  internal  finance.  What  she  must  look
forward  to  as  her  normal  annual  expenditure  is  very  far  from
covered  by  her  taxation.  Her  currency  has  increased  nearly
eight  times  above  what  it  was  at  the  beginning  of  the  war ;
prices  are  vastly  higher  than  in  England,  and  it  is  probable
that  the  actual  depreciation  of  the  franc  is  as  yet  far  from
expressed  in  the  rate  of  exchange,  which  at  the  moment  of
writing  is  over  31  francs  to  the  £.  If  this  is  so,  the  export  of
goods  from  France  will  be  greatly  handicapped.  Added  to
all  this,  France  is  faced  with  an  external  debt  of  about
£900,000,000  owing  to  us  and  to  the  United  States.

As  against  this,  France  has,  of  course,  gained  great  wealth
by  the  acquisition  of  Alsace-Lorraine.  The  economic  effect,
however,  will  not  be  felt  immediately,  and  meanwhile  it  is
imperative  for  French  credit  that  her  Government  should
pursue  a  stronger  and  a  more  decided  policy  of  internal  financial
reform.

Take,  again,  the  position  of  Italy.  Of  all  European  countries,
Italy  has  to  import  the  greatest  proportion  of  raw  materials.
She  has  no  coal,  and  few  other  raw  materials.  The  resources
which  she  possessed  for  the  purpose  of  balancing  her  trade
were  the  export  of  manufactured  articles,  the  money  remitted
home  yearly  by  the  very  large  number  of  her  emigrants,  and


188  WAR  AND   NATIONAL  FINANCE

the  expenditure  in  Italy  of  tourists.  All  these  sources  of
wealth  have  either  disappeared  or  been  greatly  diminished.
Take  as  an  example  the  silk  trade,  one  of  the  most  important
of  Italian  industries.  What  markets  is  Italy  now  to  export
to  ?  The  Central  Empires  will  be  too  poverty-stricken  to  buy
such  articles  of  luxury  in  great  quantities,  and,  on  the  other
hand,  the  markets  of  the  New  World,  and  particularly  of  the
United  States,  have  been  captured  by  Japanese  competition.
Similarly,  the  important  Italian  trade  in  early  fruits  and
vegetables  to  Central  Europe  is  likely  to  be  very  badly  hit  by
the  diminished  purchasing  power  of  the  enemy  countries.  Even
the  famous  macaroni  is  now,  since  the  war,  manufactured  in
Canada  and  the  United  States.

As  to  emigration,  the  war  has  brought  a  changed  world.
Germany,  to  which  normally  a  large  number  of  Italian  emi-
grants went  every  year,  will  now  have  in  all  probability  to
export  her  own  population  instead  of  receiving  the  population
of  others.  German  emigration  is  likely  to  compete  with  Italian
in  other  parts  of  the  world,  and  it  is  possible  that  countries
like  the  United  States  will  impose  greater  restrictions  than
hitherto  on  indiscriminate  immigration.

Italy  also  is  loaded  with  a  vast  external  debt  of  about
£700,000,000.  How  can  she  pay  the  interest  on  this  and  also
buy  her  raw  materials  ?  In  1918  her  imports  were  about  ten
times  as  great  as  her  exports,  and  while  Peace  will  bring,  no
doubt,  a  reduction  in  imports,  her  position  is  one  of  the  greatest
difficulty.

In  the  main,  German  conditions  are  not  dissimilar.  It  is
true  that  during  the  war  Germany  has  incurred  no  great  foreign
debt,  but  that  deficiency  will  be  supplied,  and  on  a  scale  far
greater  than  in  the  case  of  any  other  nation,  by  the  Reparation
Terms  of  the  Treaty  of  Peace.  It  is  true,  also,  that  her  factories
are  intact.  Nevertheless,  she  is  bare  of  raw  materials,  and  her
whole  financial  and  economic  structure  is  being  strained  to  the
breaking  point.  Her  currency  is  in  vast  superfluity  ;  the  mark
is  now  worth  only  between  Sd.  and  4:d.  instead  of  Is. ;  prices
are  very  high  ;  her  workmen  are  demoralized  and  debilitated
by  the  conditions  of  war  and  the  constant  underfeeding  of  four
years.     It  is  impossible  to  see  how  internal  bankruptcy  can  be


FINANCE  AND  REPARATION  189

avoided,  and  a  general  scaling  down  of  debts.  It  is  equally
difficult  to  see  what  effect  this  would  have  on  the  stability  of
her  great  banking  institutions.  Germany  can  only  get  to
work  again  if  she  can  obtain  large  credits  from  abroad  for  the
purchase  of  raw  materials.  Unless  she  gets  to  work  she  cannot
possibly  pay  the  indemnities  demanded  of  her.  Members  of
Parliament  who  demand  that  she  shall  pay  the  whole  cost  of  the
war,  and  regard  the  Reparation  Terms  as  lenient,  are  invited
to  suggest  some  solution  of  this  dilemma.

The  economic  conditions  of  all  the  smaller  countries  of
Europe  to  the  east  and  south-east  are  worse  even  than  those
of  Western  Europe.  Famine  and  distress  are  more  acute.
They  have  more  chaotic  currencies  and  greater  political  troubles.
Several  of  them  are  conducting  minor  wars  amongst  themselves.
All  of  them  are  practically  without  means  of  purchasing  raw
materials.  The  same  state  of  affairs,  to  a  still  greater  degree
of  acuteness,  exists  in  Russia.  In  all  these  countries  the
future  depends  in  the  main  on  political  stability  and  peace.
They  are  mainly  agricultural,  and  they  can  quickly  recuperate,
provided  they  have  peace,  and  provided  they  are  supplied
upon  credit  with  the  first  necessities  of  existence  and  of
agricultural  production.  There  are  some  large  industries,  it
is  true,  in  Poland  and  Czecho-Slovakia,  which  offer  difficult
problems,  but  they  are  problems  which  should  be  capable  of
solution  through  the  assistance  of  friendly  Powers,  such  as  the
British  Empire  and  the  United  States.

The  position  of  Great  Britain  is  better  than  that  of  any  other
European  Power.  Our  troubles  are  of  the  same  general
character,  but  they  have  not  reached  the  same  intensity.  Our
selfish  interests  might  tempt  us  to  ignore  the  Continent  of
Europe,  and  find  a  market  for  all  our  exports  in  the  New  World.
But  such  a  policy  would  be  impracticable.  It  is  essential  that
we  should  trade  with  Europe,  and  at  present,  if  we  trade,  we
must  trade  on  credit.  We  ourselves  have  a  large  adverse
balance  of  trade.  We  are  not  therefore  in  reality  in  a  position
to  give  credit,  and  can  do  so  only  at  some  risk.  To  some  extent
at  any  rate  we  must  run  that  risk  and  rely  on  ourselves  obtaining
the  additional  credit  we  require  in  consequence  from  the  United
States.     Our  power  to  come  successfully  through  the  ordeal


190  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

of  the  next  few  years  will  depend  on  our  capacity  to  export,
and  that  will  depend  in  turn  on  our  costs  of  production  com-
paring favourably  with  those  of  our  competitors.  To  balance
our  foreign  trade  and  regain  a  stable  exchange  is  of  vital
importance.  We  can  pull  through,  but  only  by  the  exercise
of  the  greatest  possible  efficiency,  hard  work,  and  economy
by  all  classes.

As  agaiast  a  Europe  impoverished  and  in  the  deepest  distress,
stands  the  United  States  with  greater  wealth  and  greater
resources  than  ever  before  in  her  history.  It  is  impossible  that
these  two  continents,  the  one  overflowing  with  materials  of  all
kinds,  the  other  destitute  and  famishing  for  want  of  them,  can
face  each  other  without  finding  somehow  or  other  some  plan
of  mutual  co-operation.  Europe  needs  the  assistance  of  the
United  States,  but  the  United  States  also  needs  the  assistance
of  Europe.  Unless  Europe  is  given  credit  it  is  impossible  for
her  to  buy  the  exports  which  the  United  States  desires  to  sell.
It  is  for  the  United  States  to  devise  whatever  methods  most
recommend  themselves  for  giving  the  necessary  credit  to  Europe,
just  as,  in  past  years,  Europe  has  built  up  the  United  States
by  the  same  means.

As  the  unparalleled  situation,  which  is  not  yet  fully  developed,
reveals  itself  in  complete  clearness,  it  will  probably  be  found
that  the  problem  is  too  great  to  be  solved  by  private  credit
alone.  It  must  be  remembered  that  the  increasing  population
of  the  great  industrial  states  of  Europe  has  only  been  supported
by  a  highly  developed  industrial  organization  working  at  full
speed  and  by  a  complicated  system  of  international  interchange
of  goods.  That  organization  and  that  system  lie  smashed  and
wrecked.  It  is  questionable  with  what  speed  they  can  be
restored.  Even  if  credit  is  supplied  in  sufficient  quantity,
there  are  many  other  obstacles  to  a  speedy  recovery.  A  thou-
sand and  one  readjustments  require  to  be  made  before  the
great  machine  can  revolve  again  smoothly  and  rapidly.  Mean-
while how  is  the  population  to  live  ?  Germany,  for  instance,
could  provide  a  decent  standard  of  life  for  her  large  population
and  absorb  annually  an  increase  of  something  like  a  million
souls  only  by  a  highly  intensive  industrial  system  working  at
full  speed.     How  can  this  population  be  maintained  with  the


FINANCE  AND  REPARATION  191

machine  at  half  or  quarter  speed  ?  The  same  problem,  in  a
different  degree  perhaps,  faces  France,  Italy  and  Belgium.  An
equilibrium  must  be  found  between  the  numbers  of  the  popula-
tion and  the  means  of  subsistence.  In  Russia  it  has  been
found,  it  appears,  partly  by  starvation,  partly  by  a  drastic
change  in  occupation.  In  other  words,  the  urban  population
has  somehow  been  absorbed  by  the  country  and  found  there
at  least  a  bare  means  of  subsistence.

How  is  this  equilibrium  to  be  reached  in  the  rest  of  Europe  ?
On  the  one  hand  by  restoring  production  as  soon  as  possible  ;
on  the  other  by  emigration,  or,  if  that  is  not  possible,  by  drastic
changes,  either  in  occupation  or  in  the  standard  of  life,  so  that
the  means  of  subsistence  available  may  at  least  keep  the  people
alive.  It  is  clear  that  if  the  greatest  suffering  and  unemploy-
ment, and  in  consequence  the  greatest  social  disorders,  are  to
be  avoided,  every  means  must  be  utilized  to  get  the  wheels  of
industry  moving.

The  first  and  indispensable  condition  is  the  supply  of  raw
materials.  Europe  has  lost  its  working  capital.  It  must  be
supplied  to  her  and  supplied  on  credit.  The  needs  are  on  so
vast  a  scale  that  private  institutions  such  as  banks,  exporting
corporations  and  so  forth  may  not  be  able  to  cope  with  them.
Certainly  our  reduced  financial  strength  makes  that  more  than
probable  in  England.  In  the  United  States  resources  are  so
vast  that  private  credit  may  possibly  do  all  that  is  necessary.
If  so,  so  much  the  better.  But  if  not,  and  if  Government  assist-
ance can  alone  save  Europe  from  sinking  into  the  abyss.  Con-
gress, we  believe,  will  not  hesitate  to  authorize  the  United
States  Government  to  lend  the  assistance  required.  The
interests  of  the  whole  world,  and  those  of  America  included,
are  so  profoundly  involved  that  it  is  impossible  to  doubt  it.

Nevertheless,  while  Europe  must  be  helped  over  the  first
stile,  let  us  not  forget  that  a  country's  wealth  consists  in  its
own  resources  and  its  own  labour.  For  us  to  borrow  resources
from  another  country  merely  adds  to  our  obligations,  which
we  must  some  day  redeem.  That  countries  already  so
vastly  indebted  to  America  should  get  still  more  deeply  into
debt  may  be  necessary,  but  is  unfortunate.  The  huge  indebted-
ness of  Government  to  Government,  indebtedness  which  at


192  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

best  can  be  redeemed  only  over  many,  many  years,  is  unhealthy
and  undesirable.  Only  absolute  necessity  can  justify  its
increase.

In  the  main  the  European  countries  impoverished  by  the
war  must  work  out  their  own  salvation.  They  can  no  more
be  restored  by  charity  than  can  an  individual.  The  United
States  and  other  countries  enriched  by  the  war  can  and  should
lend  them  credit.  But  in  the  end  it  is  only  by  their  own
sacrifices  and  their  own  efforts  that  they  will  pull  themselves
out  of  the  mire.

II

The  peoples  of  Britain,  France,  and  Belgium  have  been  led
to  hope  that  many  of  their  financial  and  economic  troubles
will  be  solved  by  the  vast  indemnity  which  is  to  be  obtained
from  Germany.  Members  of  Parliament  in  England  have,  in
their  innocence,  and  misled  by  their  betters,  given  pledges
which  cannot  possibly  be  fulfilled,  and  unfortunately  persist  in
giving  vent  to  opinions  and  exciting  hopes  which  are  inevitably
doomed  to  disappointment.

Germany  has  undertaken  to  pay  reparation  for  the  damages
she  has  so  criminally  caused,  and  it  is  mere  justice  she  should
pay  all  that  she  has  undertaken.  Over  a  long  period  of  years
she  may  be  able  to  do  so.  What  she  can  pay  per  annum  twenty
years  hence  no  man  can  say.  What  she  can  pay  in  the  next
five  will  be  limited  by  the  extent  of  her  recovery,  and  in  any
case  cannot  be  large  enough  very  seriously  to  alleviate  the
great  financial  problems  which  within  that  period  the  nations
of  Western  Europe  must  have  solved.  What  are  in  detail  the
Reparation  Terms  in  the  Peace  Treaty  it  is  not  intended  to
discuss  here.  Nor  is  it  of  consequence,  since  the  course  of
economic  events  in  these  next  few  years  will  be  determined
by  facts  which  are  in  substance  unalterable.  Germany  will  not
be  the  Germany  of  1914.  With  Alsace-Lorraine,  Upper  Silesia
and  the  Saar  Valley  lost  to  her,  with  her  mercantile  marine
and  her  foreign  securities  gone,  with  a  disordered  currency,  a
vastly  depreciated  exchange,  financial  burdens  which  she  can
hardly  meet  in  full,  with  the  population  demoralized  by  four
years  of   strain  and  underfeeding,  with  the  most  grave  and


FINANCE  AND  REPARATION  193

pressing  political  problems  to  face,  and  with  her  markets  gone,
her  producing  power  and  her  export  capacity  must  be  for  the
present  gravely  diminished.  France  and  Italy  do  not  expect
to  balance  their  external  trade  for  two  or  three  or  four  years.
It  is  out  of  any  surplus  on  her  foreign  balance  of  trade  that
Germany  can  alone— apart  from  any  immediately  available
assets — pay  an  indemnity.  Why  should  Germany  be  able  to
do  the  miracle  that  France  and  Italy  cannot  do,  and  not  only
balance  her  trade,  but  have  great  surpluses  in  addition  to  pay
over  to  her  enemies  ?  Before  the  war  her  imports  exceeded
her  exports  by  about  £70,000,000.  The  deficit  was  made  good,
and  no  doubt  very  considerably  more  than  made  good,  by
*'  invisible  "  exports — e.g.,  freight,  interest  and  commissions.
But  these  invisible  exports  will  have  almost  entirely  disappeared.
Grermany  therefore — and  a  very  different  Germany — must  turn
an  adverse  balance  of  £70,000,000,  which  existed  at  the  time
of  her  greatest  prosperity,  into  a  favourable  balance  before  she
can  pay  anything  over  and  above  her  liquid  assets.  What
she  can  pay  in  future  will  depend  on  how  large  that  favourable
balance  will  be.  Let  us,  if  we  are  wise,  moderate  our  expecta-
tions. If,  as  soon  as  peace  is  declared,  Germany  is  given
assistance  and  credit,  she  can  pay  us  something,  and  should
pay  all  she  can.  But  what  she  can  pay  in  the  next  five  years
must  be,  we  repeat,  limited.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  we  take
away  from  her  all  her  liquid  assets,  and  all  her  working  capital,
if,  furthermore,  she  is  bound  in  future  to  make  yearly  payments
to  an  amount  which  will  in  any  reasonable  human  expectation
exceed  her  capacity,  then  no  one  outside  a  lunatic  asylum
will  lend  her  money  or  credit,  and  she  will  not  recover  sufii-
ciently  to  pay  anything.

Those  who  advocate  the  simple  and  attractive  solution  that
Germany  should  pay  us,  and  everybody  else  too,  the  whole
cost  of  the  war — may  possibly  have  forgotten  to  examine  the
question,  what  form  she  would  pay  in.  If  they  ventured  into
detail  to  that  extent,  they  might  ultimately  grasp  the  truth
that,  apart  from  any  existing  assets  of  value  outside  Germany,
she  can  pay  only  in  exports,  and  the  additional  important  truth
that  Germany's  exports  are  in  the  main  of  a  character  which
compete  especially  with  British  exports.     A  vast  indemnity,

o


194  ..  WAR   AND   NATIONAL  FINANCE

the  great  bulk  of  which  must  go  to  other  countries,  will,  there-
fore, act  as  a  forcing  house  to  German  exports  to  the  detriment
of  British  trade.  The  German  will  have  to  live  hard,  eschew
all  comforts,  achieve  the  utmost  heights  of  efficiency  and  organi-
zation in  order  to  pay  many  nations  what  he  owes  them,  and
in  so  doing  will  incidentally  drive  British  trade  out  of  the
market  or  compel  us  to  live  after  the  same  manner.

While,  therefore,  justice  demands  that  the  German  shall  in
the  course  of  time  redeem  his  bond,  he  cannot  in  the  next  few
years  solve  by  the  sweat  of  his  brow  our  financial  and  economic
problems.  It  is  by  the  sweat  of  our  own  brows  that  we  must
do  so.

Ill

What,  then,  is  the  German's  bond  ?  On  January  8,  1918,
President  Wilson,  in  a  formal  message  to  Congress,  enunciated
certain  principles  upon  which  he  submitted  that  the  war  should
be  ended.  In  Articles  VII,  VIII,  and  XI  of  the  Fourteen  Points
contained  in  that  message  he  stipulated  that  the  invaded
territories  of  Belgium,  France,  Roumania,  Serbia,  and  Monte-
negro must  not  only  be  evacuated,  but  "  restored."

On  October  4  the  German  Government  accepted  these
fourteen  points  as  a  basis  for  negotiations  for  an  armistice,
which  they  asked  the  President  to  request  the  Allies  to  open.

On  November  5  the  President  communicated  to  Germany  a
Note  drafted  by  the  Allied  Governments  assembled  at  Versailles,
in  which  they  declared  "  their  willingness  to  make  peace  with
the  Government  of  Germany  on  the  terms  of  peace  laid  down
in  the  President's  address  to  Congress  of  January  8,  1918,"
subject  to  two  qualifications,  the  second  of  which  was  stated
as  follows  : — On  Janucbry  8,  1918,  the  President  declared  that  the
invaded  territories  must  be  restored  as  well  as  evacuated  and
made  free.  The  Allied  Governments  feel  that  no  doubt  ought  to
he  allowed  to  exist  as  to  what  this  provision  implies.  By  it  they
understand  that  compensation  will  be  made  by  Germany  for  all
damage  done  to  the  civilian  population  of  the  Allies  and  to  their
property  by  the  aggression  of  Germany  by  land,  by  sea,  and  from
the  air.

It  is  important  to  note  that  these  words  were  drafted  by  the


FINANCE  AND  REPARATION  195

Allied  Governments  in  Versailles,  and  not  by  President  Wilson
in  Washington.

These  terms  govern  the  question  of  reparation.  All  demands
on  Germany  must  clearly  in  honour  fall  within  them.  Argu-
ments are  used  even  in  responsible  quarters  to  the  eiffect  that,
since  the  Fourteen  Points  did  not  mention  either  Reparation
or  Indemnity,  the  Allies  are  at  liberty  to  make  what  claims
they  like  in  respect  of  either.  We  do  not  share  this  view.
From  the  moral,  if  not  the  legal,  point  of  view,  it  is  excluded
in  our  view  by  the  subsequent  correspondence  quoted  above.
Else  what  reliance  could  be  placed  by  the  Germans  on  the  terms
to  which  they  had  agreed,  if  a  matter  of  the  vital  nature  of  an
unlimited  indemnity  could  be  imported  later.  Whether  the
Allied  authorities  were  wise  or  unwise  when  in  the  first  days
of  November  they  agreed  at  Versailles  to  peace  on  these  terms,
whether,  had  they  known  of  the  full  extent  of  the  German
debacle,  they  would  have  framed  their  demands  otherwise,  all
these  questions  are  beside  the  mark.  It  was  on  these  terms  and
in  reliance  on  their  fulfilment  that  the  German  nation  laid
down  its  arms.

What,  then,  do  they  imply  to  the  plain  man  ?  The  President
demanded  that  Germany  should  "  restore  "  as  well  as  evacuate
the  invaded  territories  of  Belgium,  France,  Roumania,  Serbia
and  Montenegro.  The  Allies  wished  to  make  clear  what  this
provision  meant.  They  knew  that  other  countries  which  had
not  been  invaded  had  also  suffered  similar  kinds  of  damage
from  Germany's  aggression,  that  England  had  suffered  from
air  raids,  and  far  more  important,  that  the  British  Empire  in
particular  had  suffered  enormous  damage  from  the  illegitimate
submarine  campaign,  which  was  especially  directed  against
civilian  life  and  property.  It  was  clearly  necessary  and  justifi-
able to  extend  the  President's  definition  of  restoration  of
invaded  territories  to  cover  these  cases.  Germany  was  there-
fore to  pay  compensation  for  all  damage  done  to  the  civilian
population  of  the  Allies  and  their  property  by  the  aggression
of  Germany  by  land,  by  sea,  or  from  the  air.

Clearly  Germany  must  pay  for  physical  damage  to  life  or
property  inflicted  on  civilians  ;  clearly  she  can  be  called  on  to
pay  for  the  damage  direct  and  indirect  to  civilians  and  their


196  WAR  AND   NATIONAL  FINANCE

property  due  to  the  illegitimate  submarine  campaign,  or  in
other  words,  for  much  more  in  certain  directions  than  as  it
appears  is  actually  demanded  of  her.  But  can  we  ask  her  to
pay  compensation  arising  out  of  her  soldiers  killing  or  wounding
our  soldiers  ?  How  does  that  come  within  the  terms  ?  Can
we  demand  from  her,  as  it  appears  we  do,  from  the  published
Summary  of  the  Treaty  of  Peace,  the  cost  of  pensions  to  widows
and  orphans  and  to  the  wounded  and  crippled  soldiers  and
sailors  themselves  ?  How  is  that  "  damage  done  to  the  civilian
population  of  the  Allies  and  their  property  ?  "  Is  it  on  the
ground  that  some  of  the  men  who  earned  the  war  pensions  are
no  longer  soldiers  or  sailors  ?  That  argument  seems  to  us
groundless,  for  in  that  case  the  word  "  civilian  "  has  no  meaning
and  would  exclude  no  one.

If  the  soldier's  pension  is  damage,  why  not  the  soldier's  pay  ?
And  if  that,  why  not  the  cost  of  shells  and  guns,  and,  in  fact,
every  expense  arising  out  of  the  cost  of  the  war  ?  It  might
be  urged  that  we  were  entitled  to  say  that  Germany  should
pay  all  such  expenses.  Certainly  we  were.  But  we  did  not
say  it.  It  would  be  ridiculous,  if  we  really  intended  to  make
so  wholesale  and  definite  a  claim  to  have  done  so  by  merely
extending  and  defining  President  Wilson's  demand  for  the
restoration  of  invaded  territories.  If  we  were  claiming  the
whole  cost  of  the  war,  the  most  inexperienced  draftsman  could
in  two  minutes  have  framed  words  which  would  have  admitted
of  no  dispute.  We  did  not  do  so,  and  this  meaning  cannot,
in  our  opinion,  honourably  be  read  into  the  words  we  used.

It  is  imperative  in  our  view  that  the  Government  should
make  public  the  grounds  on  which  these  claims  are  based  and  the
reasons  why  they  were  made  in  this  form,  and  so  convince  the
nation  that  in  making  them  it  has  justice  and  honour  on  its  side.
So  far  as  the  sum  to  be  exacted  from  Germany  is  concerned,
the  matter  is  of  small  importance,  and  might  be  held  to  be  one
of  form  only,  since  it  would  probably  be  easy  to  claim  from
Germany  in  strict  accordance  with  the  terms  she  has  accepted
all  and  more  than  all  she  can  possibly  pay.  But  on  other
grpunds  its  importance  cannot  be  exaggerated.  We  have  been
fighting  above  all  to  vindicate  the  sanctity  of  treaties.  In
peace  our  first  duty  is  to  sustain  this  principle  by  our  example.


IX
THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION

(September,  1919)

The  greatest  danger  which  threatens  us  is  the  chasm  which
lies  between  appearance  and  reality,  between  reality  and  what
the  bulk  of  the  nation  believes  it  to  be.  If  all  sections  of  our
population  saw  the  chasm  in  front  of  us  and  made  up  their
minds  that  it  must  be  bridged,  we  could  easily  do  so.  Our
danger  is  that,  not  foreseeing  it  and  blinded  by  internecine
strife,  as  we  approach  it,  we  shall  fall  into  the  abyss.  Perhaps
an  equal  risk  is  that,  in  our  ignorance  of  the  real  conditions  of
our  economic  prosperity,  we  shall,  when  the  dangers  are  too
close  to  be  ignored,  embrace  any  panacea  which  may  be  nearest
at  hand  in  a  vain  hope  that  it  may  work  a  miracle.

We  are  deceived  by  our  appearance  of  prosperity.  Never
has  there  been  so  much  "  money  "  about :  great  classes  of  the
population  either  are,  or  at  least  feel  that  they  are,  better  off
than  they  have  ever  been  ;  profits  in  most  trades  are  abound-
ing ;  deposits  in  the  banks  go  up  by  leaps  and  bounds  ;  there
is  every  symptom  of  feverish  prosperity  which  accompanies
rapidly  rising  prices.  Yet  all  the  time  the  upward  movement
continues  ;  the  inarticulate  possessors  of  "  fixed  incomes  "  are
slowly  ground  between  the  upper  and  nether  millstones  of
taxation  and  high  prices,  and  the  whole  economic  fabric  becomes
more  and  more  undermined.

Every  financier  and  economist  and  all  past  experience  tell
us  that  such  a  state  of  affairs  cannot  last  for  ever,  and  must,
indeed,  if  long  pursued,  end  either  in  a  sudden  collapse  or  more
or  less  prolonged  depression.  But,  if  we  do  not  understand
the  grounds  for  these  predictions,  they  will  not  be  heeded,  until

197


198  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

the  trouble  begins.  Indeed,  they  will  merely  confirm  that
disbelief  in  expert  opinion  which  our  seeming  prosperity  for  five
years  through  the  course  of  a  gigantic  and  costly  war  has  spread
far  and  wide.  It  is  incumbent,  then,  on  economists  who  hold
this  opinion  to  make  some  effort  to  show  the  real  facts,  to
predict  in  what  manner  the  existing  situation  will  develop,
and  to  suggest  what  safeguards  and  remedies  may  be  applied.


One  effect  of  the  artificial  conditions  in  which  we  are  living
has  been  to  intensify  the  general  belief  on  the  part  of  the  people
that  there  is  any  amount  of  wealth  to  make  every  one  comfort-
able, if  it  could  be  got  hold  of,  and  that  it  is  their  business —
almost  their  duty — to  "  have  a  shot  at  it,"  since  by  so  doing
they  will  benefit  themselves  and  the  whole  nation.

While  every  one  will  admit  the  imperfections  of  the  existing
distribution  of  income  and  the  great  need  to  make  England  a
better  place  to  live  in,  there  could  unfortunately  be  no  greater
delusion  than  to  believe  that  any  redistribution  can  make  our
wealth  really  sufiicient.  There  is  ample  proof  that  the  increase
of  wealth  is  even  more  important  than  its  better  distribution,
and  must,  in  fact,  precede  it.  Indeed,  no  proper  perspective
for  the  consideration  of  the  questions  which  are  now  agitating
the  nation  can  be  obtained,  unless  the  true  facts  with  regard
to  the  national  income  are  thoroughly  grasped.  Since,  in  the
economic  sphere  at  any  rate,  they  govern  the  whole  matter,  it
is  worth  while  to  restate  them  briefly.

The  most  authoritative  statement  is  to  be  found  in  Dr.
Bowley's  recent  work,*  in  which  he  analyses  the  national
income  as  it  stood  just  before  the  war.  His  exhaustive  and
able  statement  should  be  read  by  every  one.  His  general
conclusion,  amply  confirmed  by  the  figures  which  he  gives  in
detail,  is  that  "the  spendable  wealth  of  the  nation  derived
from  home  industry  has  been  grossly  exaggerated  by  loose
reasoning."  Before  the  war  the  home  income  would  "  not
have  yielded  more  than  £230  gross  annually  per  family  of  five

*  The  Division  of  the  Product  of  Industry.  An  Analysis  of  National
Income  before  the  War.     Arthur  L.  Bowley.     Clarendon  Press.


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    199

or  £170  net  after  all  rates  and  taxes  were  paid  and  an  adequate
sum  invested  in  home  industries.  The  income  brought  home  from
abroad  amounted  to  about  £90,000,000,  or  £10  a  family.  The
average  family  is  not,  however,  five,  as  is  frequently  assumed,
but  about  four  and  a  half  persons ;  the  number  of  households
is  not  9,000,000,  as  just  taken,  but  about  10,000,000,  and  the
average  net  income  of  a  family  would  have  been  £153  from
home  product,  or  £162  if  income  from  abroad  is  included.  If
this  sum  is  compared  with  pre-war  wages  it  must  be  remembered
that  there  are  on  an  average  nearly  two  earners  to  a  family."
Again  Dr.  Bowley  points  out  that  about  60  per  cent  of  the
total  national  income  goes  to  those  whose  annual  income  is
under  £160.  The  balance  of  40  per  cent  goes  to  the  1,100,000
income  tax  payers  and  their  families  ;  but  of  this  40  per  cent
a  considerable  proportion  is  earned  as  salaries  or  by  farmers,
and  a  further  still  larger  portion  goes  to  pay  rates  and  taxes
and  to  provide  the  sum  which  has  yearly  to  be  reinvested  in
industry.  He  further  calculates  that  the  average  salary  of  all
salaried  persons  paying  income  tax  was  about  £340,  and  that
the  average  profit  of  all  persons  assessed  to  profits  over  £160
can  be  roughly  estimated  at  £500  per  annum.  Finally  he
calculates  that  on  the  extreme  assumption,  first,  that  every
earned  income  in  the  country  was  reduced  to  £160  per  annum,
and  second,  that  the  whole  of  the  balance  so  saved,  together
with  all  unearned  income,  was  transferred  to  national  purposes,
only  about  £200,000,000  to  £250,000,000  (at  pre-war  figures)
would  be  available.  "  This  sum,"  continues  Dr.  Bowley,
"would  have  little  more  than  sufficed  to  bring  the  wages  of
adult  men  and  women  up  to  the  minimum  of  355.  Sd.  weekly
for  a  man  and  20<s.  for  a  woman,  which  Mr.  Rowntree,  in  The
Human  Needs  of  Labour,  estimates  as  reasonable."  In  actual
fact  nothing  approaching  this  sum  would  be  available.  To
cut  down  all  earned  incomes  to  this  limit  and  to  confiscate  all
unearned  incomes  would  without  doubt  largely  diminish  the
production  of  wealth,  at  any  rate  for  the  time  being,  by  the
dislocation  caused  and  by  the  diminution  of  the  incentive  to
save  or  to  go  in  for  new  development.

As  regards  profits,  Dr.  Bowley 's  calculations  are  as  follows  : —
"  In  the  whole  group  of  industries  for  which  we  have  adequate


200  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

information,  taken  all  together,  excluding  railways,  it  is  found
that  58  per  cent  of  the  net  product  (after  all  other  expenses
and  depreciation  are  met)  goes  to  manual  workers,  4  per  cent
in  small  salaries,  6  per  cent  in  salaries  over  £160  :  in  all  68
per  cent  goes  to  those  employed.  32  per  cent  is  left  for  royalties,
rents,  interests  and  profits,  advertisement,  etc.,  and  this  is
reduced  to  23  per  cent  if  we  count  our  royalties  (as  not  being
the  result  of  the  efforts  of  employed)  and  allow  4  per  cent  for
the  necessary  repayment  of  or  interest  on  capital  invested.
How  far  this  23  per  cent,  or  £133,000,000,  together  with  a
relatively  small  sum  (probably  well  under  £10,000,000)  for  the
salaries  of  managers  of  companies,  is  an  excessive  or  unneces-
sary remuneration  for  the  organization  of  industry  employing
6,000,000  wage-earners  and  £1,200,000,000  capital,  and  produc-
ing £340,000,000  wages,  is  a  question  that  may  properly  be
debated.  It  is  this  sum  that  formed  the  only  possible  source
of  increased  earnings  in  this  group  with  industries  conducted
as  before  the  war  and  production  at  its  then  level.  In  fact,
while  in  some  industries  a  considerable  advance  may  have
been  practicable,  in  the  majority  no  such  increase  as  would
make  possible  the  standards  of  living  now  urgently  desired
and  promised  in  the  election  addresses  of  all  the  political  parties
could  have  been  obtained  without  wrecking  the  industry,
whether  by  stopping  the  source  of  further  investment  or  closing
down  firms  whose  profits  were  low.  This  statement  in  its
general  terms  cannot,  it  is  thought,  be  reasonably  denied  by
any  one  who  has  studied  the  facts."

Dr.  Bowley's  conclusion  is  that  "  there  is  no  hopeful  way  of
dealing  with  the  state  of  affairs  portrayed  by  these  statistics,
except  by  increasing  production,  care  being  taken  that  the
increased  product  is  well  distributed."  All  the  improvements
as  regards  labour  and  capital  necessary  for  increased  produc-
tion will,  however,  need  time,  skill  and  patience,  and  they
have  not  yet  taken  place.  "  There  is  a  great  risk  of  disappoint-
ment and  failure  if  there  is  an  attempt  to  grasp  the  fruits  of
progress  before  the  tree  that  might  produce  them  has  been
cultivated.  This  analysis  has  failed  in  part  of  its  purpose  if  it
has  not  shown  that  the  problem  of  securing  the  wages,  which
people  rather  optimistically  believe  to  be  immediately  and


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    201

permanently  possible,  is  to  a  great  extent  independent  of  the
question  of  national  or  individual  ownership,  unless  it  is
seriously  believed  that  production  would  increase  greatly  if
the  State  were  sole  employer.  The  wealth  of  the  country,
however,  divided,  was  insufficient  before  the  war  for  a  general
high  standard  ;  there  is  nothing  as  yet  to  show  that  it  will  be
greater  in  the  future.  Hence  the  most  important  task — more
important  immediately  than  the  improvement  of  the  division
of  the  product — incumbent  on  employers  and  workmen  alike,
is  to  increase  the  national  product,  and  that  without  sacrificing
leisure  and  the  amenities  of  life."

The  figures  given  by  Dr.  Bowley  are  supported  by  Dr.
Stamp,*  another  competent  authority,  in  his  recent  estimate
of  the  Wealth  and  Income  of  the  Chief  Powers.  Dr.  Stamp's
interesting  analysis  is  reproduced  on  page  202.

What  is  the  broad  lesson  we  can  draw  from  the  figures  of
Dr.  Bowley  and  Dr.  Stamp  ?  It  is  that  in  all  countries  man
has  not  yet  done  much  more  than  draw  from  nature  by  hard
toil  and  labour  the  bare  necessities  of  life.  Nature  is  not
bountiful,  or  perhaps  man,  presuming  on  her  bounty,  multiplies
too  rapidly.  In  no  country  is  there  any  vast  store  of  surplus
wealth.  We  are  better  off  than  most,  but  only  owing  to  our
natural  resources  and  to  the  efforts  and  savings  of  past  genera-
tions. And  our  wealth,  such  as  it  is,  has  been  secured  only  by  a
vast  and  intricate  system  of  national  and  international  division
of  labour  and  exchange  of  our  goods  against  the  goods  of  all
foreign  countries.  It  is  no  easy  matter  daily  to  feed,  clothe,
house,  transport  and  provide  some  amenities  of  life  for  45,000,000
souls  on  these  small  islands.  It  is  almost  a  daily  miracle  that
we  do  so  and  it  is  done  only  at  the  cost  of  highly  complicated
industrial  society  involving  very  great  specialization,  which
has  many  drawbacks,  and  against  which  we  seem  now  to  be
rebelling.  The  profound  dissatisfaction  which  is  evident  in
every  great  industrial  country  is  not  unnatural.  Our  modem
civilization  is  an  unlovely  thing.  Never  before  in  history  have
such  vast  masses  of  men  been  called  upon  to  toil  in  surroundings
which  divorce  them  so  completely  from  that  nature  in  close

♦  The  Wealth  and  Income  of  the  Chief  Powers.  J.  C.  Stamp,  C.B.E.,
D.Sc.     Royal  Statistical  Society,  1919.


202


WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE


Summary  Table,  showing  the  estimated  Wealth  and  Annvxxl  Income  oj

various  Countries  at  the  outbreak  of  War  in  1914,  and  the

approximate  accuracy  of  the  respective  estimates.


National  Capital.

National  Income.

Country.

"Rod

a

Approximation
to  accuracy  :
Grade.*

11

111

£

£

United  Kngdom    .

I

14,500

318

I

2,250

50

United  States   .

II

42,000

424

II

7,250

72

Germany

II

16,550

244

I

2,150

30

France   ....

II

12,000

303

II

1,500

38

Italy       ....

III

4,480

128

IV

800

23

Austria -Hungary   .

III

6,200

121

IV

1,100

21

Spain      ....

IV

2,940

144

IV

230

11

Belgium

III

1,200

157

—

—

—

Holland.      .      .      .

III

1,050

167

—

—

—

Russia    ....

IV

12,000

85

—

—

—

Sweden  ....

III

940

168

. —

— .

—

Norway

IV

220

90

—

—

—

Denmark     .

IV

500

176

. —

—

—

Switzerland

IV

800

205

—

—

—

Australia

I

1,530

318

I

2.58

54

Canada  ....

II

2,285

300

IV

300

40

Japan     ....

IV

2,400

44

III

325

6

Argentine    .

III

2,400

340

—

— ■

' — •

*  Grade    I.


II.


III.


IV.


Estimate  is  not  likely  to  be  inaccurate  to  a  greater

extent  than  10  per  cent.
Estimate  is  not  likely  to  be  inaccurate  to  a  greater

extent  than  20  per  cent.
Estimate  is  not  likely  to  be  inaccurate  to  a  greater

extent  than  30  per  cent.
Estimate  may  be  inaccurate  to  a  greater  extent  than

40  per  cent.


touch  with  which  man  has  through  countless  generations  lived.
Never  before  have  they  had  to  work  so  mechanically  and
monotonously.    The  people  of   Erewhon,  in  Samuel  Butler's


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    203

great  satire  on  modern  society,  rose  in  revolt  against  the  slavery
of  machinery  and  destroyed  every  machine,  notwithstanding
that  at  first  the  country  was  plunged  in  the  utmost  misery.
"  How  many  men  at  this  hour,"  said  the  Erewhonian  leader
of  this  revolution,  '*  are  living  in  a  state  of  bondage  to  the
machines  ?  How  many  spend  their  whole  lives,  from  the  cradle
to  the  grave,  in  tending  them  by  night  and  day  ?  Is  it  not
plain  that  the  machines  are  gaining  ground  upon  us  when  we
reflect  on  the  increasing  number  of  those  who  are  bound  to  them
as  slaves  and  of  those  who  devote  their  whole  souls  to  the
advancement  of  the  mechanical  kingdom."  Since  Butler's
day  the  point  of  this  satire  has  grown  greater  and  not  less.
"The  swift  stride  of  civilization,"  says  another  writer,  "is
leaving  behind  individual  effort  and  turning  man  into  the
Daemon  of  a  machine.  To  and  fro  in  front  of  the  long  loom,
lifting  a  lever  at  either  end,  paces  he,  who  once  with  pains-
taking intelligence  drove  the  shuttle.  Then  he  tasted  the  joys
of  completed  work,  that  which  his  eye  had  looked  upon  and
his  hands  handled ;  now  his  work  is  as  little  finished  as  the
web  of  Penelope.  Once  the  reaper  grasped  the  golden  corn
stems  and  with  dexterous  sweep  of  sickle  set  free  the  treasure
of  the  earth.  Once  the  creatures  of  the  field  were  known  to
him,  and  his  eye  caught  the  fiare  of  scarlet  and  blue  as  the
frail  poppies  and  sturdy  corncockles  laid  down  their  beauty
at  his  feet ;  now  he  sits  serene  on  the  Juggernaut  car,  its
guiding  Daemon,  and  the  field  is  silent  to  him."

No  one,  indeed,  can  yet  say  to  what  end  our  mechanical
civilization  is  leading,  whether  to  success  or  to  revolt  and  failure.
But  we  have  allowed  the  increased  facility  of  wealth-production
to  result  in  the  birth  and  existence  of  hundreds  of  millions
more  men  and  women,  and  we  must  either  continue  to  toil
to  produce  the  wealth  with  which  to  sustain  them  or  follow
Russia  and  establish  a  new  equilibrium  by  starvation  and
death.

It  may  be  urged  that  the  problem  is  not  an  economic  but  a
psychological  one.  If  we  can  find  some  other  industrial  system
which  appeals  with  more  force  to  the  better  instincts  of  man
and  develops  all  his  faculties,  it  may  be  that  his  greater
contentment  of  soul  will  solve  our  economic  difficulties  and


204  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

that  the  wealth  he  will  produce  will  be  much  greater.  If  we
can  only  associate  more  than  we  do  now  both  his  self-interest
and  his  intelligence  with  his  work,  if  he  can  feel  that  the  work
on  which  he  is  engaged  most  of  his  earthly  life  has  some  meaning
for  him  and  that  he  is  not  simply  another  machine  added  to  all
those  he  uses,  then  he  will  labour  far  harder,  because  with  far
greater  goodwill.

All  this  and  more  is  true.  The  manual  worker,  the  brain
worker,  and  the  saver  of  capital,  or,  in  other  words,  the  share-
holder, are  all  necessary  to  modern  industry.  They  must  all
receive  their  due  reward,  and  all  share  in  the  responsibility  for
the  industry  in  and  by  which  they  live.  The  harmonization
of  their  interests  to  a  greater  extent  than  now  is  a  work  of
great  difficulty  and  complexity,  which  in  all  probability  can
only  slowly  be  worked  out.  It  cannot  be  solved  by  any  crude
system  of  making  us  all  slaves  to  a  bureaucratic  State.  Nor
can  it  be  solved  at  all  if  each  section  is  inspired  by  brutal  class-
selfishness  and  materialism.  Those  who  realize  the  enormous
complexity  of  the  economic  problems  involved  and  the  impossi-
bility of  securing  ideal  justice  and  equality  or  anything  like  it
in  this  world,  cannot  but  be  convinced  ever  more  deeply  that
far  more  important  than  anything  else  is  the  spirit  in  which
these  questions  are  approached  by  each  party.  If  we  love
our  neighbour  as  ourselves,  we  can  co-operate  with  him  in
finding  a  better  way  ;  if  we  start  by  hating  him  we  certainly
cannot.  The  highest  teachings  of  religion  and  their  application
to  practical  life  are  the  cement  of  society.  The  loosening  and
cracking  of  this  cement  is  the  most  potent  modern  influence
towards  social  and  even  economic  demoralization.

Meanwhile  it  is  necessary  to  insist  on  the  economic  facts  in
order  to  show  that  disaster  will  overtake  us  all  if,  through
impatience  or  class-selfishness,  we  try  a  short  cut  by  destroying
what  already  exists  and  not  by  the  slower  method  of  amending
and  improving.  Our  complicated  machine  is  easily  destroyed,
or,  at  least,  put  out  of  gear,  and  unless  we  keep  it  running  at
full  speed  we  shall  soon  face  economic  ruin.

But  the  war  with  its  effects — intolerance  on  one  side,  profiteer-
ing on  the  other — has  not  brought  with  it  a  spirit  of  moderation.
The  most  depressing  aspect  of  to-day's  situation  is  to  watch


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    205

sections  of  the  working  population,  misled  by  the  fallacies  of
their  extremist  leaders,  deliberately  committing  suicide.  While
every  one  will  suffer,  it  is  they  who  will  suffer  most  by  our
diminished  national  income.  Wages  can  only  be  paid  out  of
production,  and  the  small  margin  of  safety  we  possess  is  day
by  day  being  reduced.  Labour  is  day  by  day  working  to
depress  its  own  standard  of  life,  and,  unless  our  course  is  quickly
changed,  no  power  on  earth  can  prevent  it.  The  root  of  the
trouble  is  very  deep.  It  lies  in  the  repudiation  by  many  of
the  whole  existing  economic  system.  In  their  revolt  against
it  they  claim  that  manual  labour  and  skill  are  the  only  elements
in  production,  and  they  demand  the  elimination  of  private
capital  and  capitalists.  They  ignore  the  fact  that  saving  is  a
vital  factor  in  production,  and  that  individual  initiative,  bold-
ness and  skill  in  enterprise,  inventiveness,  organization  and
the  taking  of  risks  are  also  all-important  and  that  without
them  pure  manual  labour  is  of  little  account.

Hitherto  profits  have  been  the  reward  and  losses  the  penalty
of  enterprise  and  risk.  "  Nations  are  made  or  unmade,"  says
Mr.  Samuel  Turner  in  his  stimulating  book  From  War  to  Work,
"  by  the  thinking  and  the  acting  of  their  citizens  ;  and  what
matters  most  of  all  is  the  thinking,  for  the  acting  follows  upon
it.  Russia  and  Siberia  have,  probably,  far  greater  natural
resources  and  far  greater  potential  wealth  than  America  ;  but
because  their  peoples  have  thought  and  acted  in  a  certain  way,
the  history  of  their  national  development  has  been  disappointing.
America  is  America  simply  because  her  citizens  have  thought
and  acted  with  wisdom, shrewdness,  and  energy."  Again,  "  the
Ford  factory,"  as  he  points  out,  "in  Detroit  employs  immigrants
very  largely,  many,  many  thousands  of  them.  These  men
are  of  various  nationalities — Poles,  Letts,  Slavs,  Italians,  etc.
— and  it  is  probably  true  to  say  that  in  their  native  surroundings
they  never  earned  more  than  a  shilling  or  two  at  the  outside
a  day.  Yet  thousands  of  these  men — i.e.,  '  labour  ' — who
never  in  their  lives  earned  more  than  the  barest  pittance,  cross
the  ocean.  They  are  absorbed  in  a  great  industrial  organi-
zation, where,  thanks  to  the  directing  ability  of  a  higher  intelli-
gence than  their  own,  they  are  paid,  when  accepted,  twenty
shillings  a  day  for  eight  hours'  work.     In  the  land  of  their


206  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

birth  their  working  day  would  doubtless  be  from  sunrise  to
sundown."  It  is  the  policy  of  the  Labour  Party  in  future  to
dispense  with  the  incentive  of  profits  either  by  "  nationaliza-
tion," or  ''  by  the  steeply-graduated  taxation  of  private  income
and  riches."  In  this  way  "  it  intends  to  find  the  new  capital
which  the  community  needs  and  for  which  it  will  decline  to  be
dependent  on  the  usury- exacting  financiers."  *  The  important
question,  however,  which  it  is  not  in  the  power  of  the  Labour,
or  any  other  party  to  determine,  is  whether  capital  will  in  these
circumstances  be  found  to  exist  in  an  equal  amount  to  now.
Profits  are  a  powerful  incentive  ;  risks  and  losses  almost  a
constant  feature  of  new  forms  of  wealth  production.  It  is
more  than  doubtful  if  with  that  incentive  gone  we  shall  produce
as  much,  and,  as  the  figures  just  quoted  show,  we  have  none
too  much  already.

As  to  saving,  it  is  a  profound  error  of  labour  to  regard  capital
as  its  enemy  and  saving  therefore  as  harmful.  If  capital  is
the  enemy  of  labour,  surely  it  is  strange  that,  as  Mr.  Turner
points  out,  "  at  all  times  the  migration  of  labour,  nationally
and  internationally,  has  been  towards  those  areas  where,  for
the  time  being,  the  operations  of  capitalists  were  most  active."
Some  aspects  of  the  capitalistic  system  may  be  intolerable,  but
capital  itself  is  labour's  greatest  friend.  What  is  imperatively
required  is  that  there  should  be  more  of  it  and  that  it  should
be  better  distributed.  The  remedy  for  our  ills  is  to  be  found
in  the  workers  becoming  capitalists,  not  by  confiscating  the
property  of  those  who  now  possess  it,  but  by  joining  them  in
owning  it.  To  do  this  they  must  have  both  the  will  and  the
power  to  save.  They  must  understand  how  vital  is  saving
to  themselves  and  the  whole  community,  and  their  wages  must
be  sufficient  to  allow  them  a  margin  for  saving.  But  since
wages  are  paid  out  of  production,  production  must  be  increased.

Meanwhile  saving  is  seriously  discouraged  by  present  ten-
dencies and  by  labour's  tendency  to  demand  that  the  State
shaU  be  the  only  capitalist.  The  man  who  has  grown  rich,
not  at  any  one  else's  expense,  but  by  extracting  fresh  wealth
from  Nature  through  his  own  enterprise,  initiative  and
courage  ;  the  shareholder,  small  and  great,  all  who  by  saving
*  Labour  and  the  New  Social  Order,  January  1,  1918.


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    207

have  added  to  the  national  mcome  and  labour's  share  in  it,  all
are  treated  by  the  more  extreme  Socialists  as  parasites  upon
society.  If  these  doctrines  are  pursued  to  their  logical  con-
clusion, the  end  must  be  disaster.  It  is  only  because  in  the
United  States  there  is  more  capital  that  labour  is  more  highly
remunerated  there.  The  less  capital,  the  higher  the  price  to  be
paid  for  it,  the  less  share  of  labour  in  the  total  product,  and  the
greater  the  unemployment.  Interest,  which  must  be  paid  on
savings  if  there  are  to  be  any,  is  going  up  rapidly  as  the  demand
grows  greater  and  the  supply  less.  "  Nationalization  "  can  do
nothing  to  prevent  this.  If  capital  is  scarce  it  must  be  paid
for  more  highly.  Just  as  labour,  if  it  is  scarce,  will  receive  a
higher  wage.  It  does  not  matter  whether  interest  is  paid
by  the  State  or  by  a  private  company.  The  State  must  borrow
at  the  market  rate  unless  it  is  able  to  make  such  great  profits
out  of  the  consumer  that  it  can  meet  all  capital  charges  out
of  them,  or  unless  it  can  institute  some  system  of  compelling
its  employees  to  save  a  portion  of  their  salaries  and  wages  and
lend  them  to  it  below  the  market  rate.

Mr.  Smillie  and  his  friends  would  soon  understand  the  vital
part  played  by  saving  in  a  nation's  economy  if  the  Miners'
Federation  were  to  take  over  the  coal  mines.  For  if  the  mines
are  to  become  efficient  they  must  have  many  millions  spent  on
them.  Who  is  going  to  provide  the  millions,  unless  for  the
market  price,  including  interest  on  capital  and  a  return  for  the
risks  run  ?  If  Mr.  Smillie  cannot  get  them  elsewhere,  he  will
have  no  choice  but  to  let  the  mines  run  down  or  to  force  the
miners  to  save  the  necessary  sums.  Saving  by  some  one  there
must  be.  And  those  who  save  must  be  induced  to  do  so  by
some  reward  for  their  abstinence  and  risk.  Interest  and  profits
in  some  form  must  be  paid  them.

The  trouble,  indeed,  about  British  industry  before  the  war
was  that  just  as  wages  were  too  low,  so  profits  were  often  not
great  enough  as  compared  with  the  profits  of  industry  in  many
countries  abroad.  In  other  words,  production  was  lower,  often,
no  doubt,  owing  to  less  favourable  conditions.  There  was  a
very  distinct  tendency  on  the  part  of  British  capital  to  be
exported  to  foreign  countries,  where  profits  were  greater.
British  industry,  in  fact,  must  be  made  more  efficient  and  so


208  WAR   AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

enabled  to  pay  higher  wages  and  sufficient  profits.  The
hopeful  side  of  the  great  increase  in  wages  and  costs  is  that  they
may  force  British  industry  to  show  far  greater  efficiency,  to
work  on  a  larger  scale,  to  eliminate  waste,  and  to  apply  more
labour-saving  devices.  Low  wages  have  in  the  past  led  the
British  employer  to  think  far  too  much  of  the  cheapness  of
labour  and  far  too  little  of  the  efficiency  of  his  organization.
There  is  no  doubt  whatever  that  we  were  fast  falling  behind  in
the  modern  race.  If  we  could  all  pull  together  there  is  no
reason  why  we  should  not  quickly  reconquer  our  old  position
in  the  world.  Our  productive  capacity  is  unimpaired,  the
demands  for  our  products  great.  We  require  merely  skill,
intelligence,  energy  and  goodwill.  If,  however,  false  ways  of
thinking  impair  our  productive  capacity,  our  future  must  be
uncertain.

At  present,  however,  we  have  to  face  the  fact  that,  however
our  national  income  is  divided,  there  is  not  in  reality  enough
to  go  round.  You  cannot  make  something  out  of  nothing.
If  the  miners  get  65.  more  in  wages  and  do  not  produce  6s.
more  wealth,  then,  unless  profits  can  be  reduced  sufficiently  to
provide  the  sum  required — which  is  not  the  case — the  rest  of  the
community  will  get  6s.  less,  since  prices  are  bound  to  rise  to
that  extent.  If  every  one  in  every  industry  gets  6s.  more,
then  prices  will  go  up  by  6s.  all  round,  and  every  one  will  be
where  they  were  before.  That  is  indeed  much  what  has
happened.  There  is  no  remedy  to  be  found  merely  by  raising
wages  without  increasing  production.

On  the  other  hand,  the  very  fact  that  the  national  income,
even  if  equally  divided,  is  not  sufficient  for  bare  needs,  is  proof
of  the  criminal  wastefulness  of  luxurious  expenditure  by  the
rich.  The  more  their  money  is  spent  on  wasteful  and  unproduc-
tive luxury,  the  less  is  saved  and  invested  in  productive  indus-
try for  the  purpose  of  meeting  the  needs  of  the  nation,  and
particularly  the  working  population.


II

Dr.  Bowley's  figures  quoted  above  refer  to  the  period  just
before  the  war.     Unfortunately,  since  then  we  have  become


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    209

considerably  poorer.  Both  the  country  and  the  Government
are  now  and  have  for  five  years  been  living  far  beyond  their
means  ;  our  prosperity  in  war  time  and  now  has  been  and  is
due  to  the  fact  that  both  country  and  Government  have  been
living  on  borrowed  money.  When,  as  they  must  soon  do,  they
cut  their  coat  according  to  their  cloth,  we  shall  feel  like  a
spendthrift  who  can  no  longer  borrow,  and  who  must  depend
in  future  on  his  own  exertions.

Take  first  the  country.  In  the  first  six  months  of  1919,  as
the  Board  of  Trade  figures  show,  we  imported  goods  to  the
value  of  £326,000,000  more  than  we  exported,  or  at  the  rate  of
£650,000,000  per  annum.  Before  the  war  we  earned  by  freights,
interest  and  commission  perhaps  between  £300,000,000  and
£400,000,000  a  year  to  offset  our  excess  of  imports  and  our
export  of  capital.  No  estimate  of  what  this  figure  is  now  is  pos-
sible, but  our  interest  earnings  must  have  been  largely  reduced
by  our  great  sales  of  foreign  investments.  On  the  other  hand,
freights  are  very  greatly  up.  Whatever  the  resultant  figure,
as  the  exchanges  show,  we  are  importing  far  beyond  our  means.
We  have  found  this  method  of  importing  on  credit  so  simple
in  the  last  two  or  three  years,  owing  to  the  fortunate  entry  of
the  United  States  into  the  war,  that  few  people  realize  that,
had  the  United  States  not  come  in,  the  Allies  could  not  after
the  middle  of  1917  have  continued  the  war  on  anything  like  the
same  scale  as  before.  We  alone  have  borrowed  from  the  United
States  since  March,  1917,  nearly  £1,000,000,000.  But  that
process  has  now  come  to  an  end,  though  many  of  our  imports
still  being  shipped  may  have  already  been  paid  for  in  borrowed
money.  But  soon  we  must  pay  with  our  own  money — i.e.,
our  exports,  our  freight,  and  so  forth — for  all  we  buy,  and  it  is
only  then  that  we  shall  feel  the  full  force  of  the  new  conditions.

It  is  important  our  people  should  understand  that  other
countries  do  not  send  us  goods  free  for  love  of  us.  They  want
payment,  and  can  only  get  it  by  buying  products  from  us —
e.g.,  coal,  wool  or  manufactured  goods.  This  means  of  pay-
ment they  cannot  now  get,  or  only  with  difficulty,  and  therefore
we  shall  soon  find  it  difficult  to  import  on  anything  like  the
same  scale  as  now,  notwithstanding  that  in  general  our  imports
are  vital  to  our  welfare.    Moreover,  all  we  import  will  cost  us

p


210  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

more  ;  for  the  more  the  balance  of  trade  goes  against  us,  the
more  unfavourable  become  our  exchanges  and  the  less  is  the
value  of  a  pound  sterling  in  terms  of  a  dollar  or  a  rupee.  Already
everything  from  the  United  States  is  costing  us  about  12  per
cent  more  than  normal  owing  to  the  fall  in  the  exchange,  and,  as
it  is  likely  to  fall  still  more,  this  burden  will  probably  increase.
Imports  from  India  cost  about  37J  per  cent  more  than  before
the  war.  Prices  will  advance  equivalently  here  on  articles
so  imported,  and,  as  many  of  them  are  essential  raw  materials
for  our  industry,  the  handicap  we  are  imposing  on  ourselves  is
obvious.  At  a  certain  level  the  United  States  in  their  own
interest  may,  and  probably  will,  give  us  credit  in  a  larger
or  smaller  degree,  since  they  will  want  to  get  rid  of  their  exports.
But  borrowing  is  merely  a  palliative,  not  a  remedy.  We  may
by  borrowing  give  ourselves  a  little  more  time  to  establish
our  balance,  but  meanwhile  we  shall  fall  still  deeper  into
debt.  It  is  imperative,  therefore,  that  we  should  increase
our  exports,  and  particularly  to  those  countries  from  whom
we  can  get  imports.

As  long  as  the  country  lives  beyond  its  means,  we  are  in
a  vicious  circle.  The  depreciation  of  the  exchanges  increases
the  cost  of  imports  ;  prices  accordingly  rise,  and  the  higher
internal  prices  encourage  further  imports  and  discourage
exports.  It  is  only  when  we  cannot  go  on  living  beyond  our
means — i.e.,  when  the  prices  of  imports  become  prohibitive
by  the  fall  in  the  value  of  our  own  currency  and,  on  the  other
hand,  exports  are  artificially  stimulated  by  the  increase  in  the
relative  value  of  foreign  currencies — that  the  tide  begins  to
turn.  But  such  a  process  will  involve  a  heavy  strain  and  read-
justment on  so  highly  developed  a  foreign  trade  as  ours,  and
we  shall  return  to  a  healthy  state  only  at  great  cost  to  ourselves.

It  is  probable  that  sanity  as  regards  purchases  abroad
will  be  more  or  less  imposed  on  us.  Borrowing,  whether  abroad
or  at  home,  appears  to  most  people  to  have  been  during  the
w  ar  a  wonderfully  successful  scheme,  a  kind  of  invention  in  the
economic  world,  which  has  somehow  shown  we  were  much
richer  than  any  one  ever  thought.  But  perpetual  borrowing  is
no  easier  to  invent  than  perpetual  motion.  For,  fortunately  or
unfortunately,  the  perpetual  lender  has  not  yet  been  discovered.


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    211

Our  borrowing  abroad  at  any  rate  is  likely  to  be  strictly  limited.
America  and  other  countries  will,  no  doubt,  lend  to  some
extent.  But  all  Europe  requires  credit,  and  America's  credit
resources  will  be  greatly  taxed  to  provide  for  nations  more
destitute  than  we  are.

Our  problem  is  indeed  a  difficult  one.  For  our  own  sakes
and  for  the  world's  we  must  help  Europe  to  mend  its  broken
economic  life.  We  must  trade  with  it,  because  we  must  sell
our  goods.  Yet  we  cannot  trade  except  on  credit,  since
Europe  has,  broadly,  no  means  of  paying.  How  can  we  give
credit,  with  our  enormous  adverse  balance  of  trade,  and  when
we  too  must  borrow  ?  Must  we  not  sell  our  exports  only  to
those  countries  who  can  pay  us  in  immediate  imports  ?  If
we  use  our  labour  and  capital  to  provide  exports  to  an  impover-
ished Europe,  which  must  owe  us  for  them,  is  not  our  power
to  purchase  our  own  imports  pro  tanto  reduced  ?  There  is
no  wholly  satisfactory  answer  to  these  questions.  Strictly
speaking,  we  cannot  afford  to  give  credit.  On  the  other  hand,
to  some  extent  we  must.  It  is  an  impossible  policy  to  refuse
to  trade  with  Europe  at  all.  We  must  ourselves  rely,  in  our
turn,  on  getting  credit  elsewhere.  The  crisis  is  too  great  and
urgent.  Most  of  Europe  is  in  desperate  need.  Unless  its
industries  get  started  the  very  gravest  social  disorders  and
even  social  collapse  seem  probable,  and  the  reaction  on  our-
selves would  be  profound.  The  rapidity,  too,  of  our  recovery
depends  on  that  of  Europe.  We  must  all  go  forward  more  or
less  together.  It  may  be  argued,  if  we  refuse  help,  America,
with  her  vastly  favourable  balance  of  trade,  can  and  should
give  it.  But,  while  she  will  give  credit  to  sell  her  own  goods,
will  she  lend  to  sell  ours  ?  She  would  be  wise  and  far-sighted
to  do  so,  but  it  is  doubtful  if  she  will.  But  while  giving  and
taking  credit  to  such  a  minimum  extent  as  will  be  found  inevit-
able, we  must  face  the  fact  that  lending  and  borrowing .  are
merely  temporary  expedients.  What  is  vital  for  the  impover-
ished countries  of  Europe,  including  our  own,  is  to  work  hard
and  live  hard  until  they  can  pay  their  own  way.

The  problem  would  be  rendered  more  easy  for  us  if  all  coun-
tries exporting  raw  materials,  especially  the  British  Dominions,
would  themselves  provide  the  necessary  credit  for  financing


212  WAE   AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

their  own  exports,  instead  of  looking  to  the  overburdened
British  people  to  do  so.

If  our  borrowing  is,  as  it  should  be,  reduced  to  a  minimum,
then  we  must  allow  economic  conditions  full  play  and  let  the
exchanges  fall  to  the  point  which  our  situation  justifies,  and
which,  at  whatever  cost  in  higher  prices  to  ourselves,  will
compel  us  one  and  all  to  live  as  our  circumstances  demand.

But  it  is  not  only  the  country  but  the  Government,  too,
that  has  been  living  for  five  years  beyond  its  means.  It  is  the
vast  internal  borrowing  by  the  Governments  of  all  belligerent
countries,  with  the  consequent  inflation  of  currency  and  credit,
from  Vladivostok  right  round  the  world  to  San  Francisco  and
Vancouver,  that  has  led  in  the  main  to  the  vast  increase  in
world  prices.  This  increase  will  continue  as  long  as  Govern-
ments borrow  large  sums  by  means  which  add  to  the  floating
amount  of  money  and  credit.  Here,  again,  we  are  in  a  vicious
circle.  Every  increase  in  prices  at  present  means  more  Govern-
ment borrowing,  and  Government  borrowing  again  increases
prices.  There  is  only  one  remedy.  Revenue  and  expendi-
ture must  balance.  We  all  sympathize  with  the  great  schemes
of  social  betterment,  involving  vast  and  often  productive
outlay  on  the  Government's  part.  Nevertheless,  if,  as  seems
likely,  we  have  almost  reached  the  limit  of  productive  taxa-
tion, the  first  duty  of  a  statesman  is  to  see  that  expenditure
does  not  exceed  the  revenue  he  can  raise.  A  capital  levy  is
not  an  alternative.  It  must  not  be  used  for  revenue  purposes,
but  only  to  pay  off  capital  debts.  It  would,  no  doubt,  reduce
interest  charges,  and  so  aUow  of  some  reduction  in  taxation.
But  it  would  be  a  fatal  and  spendthrift  policy  to  use  it  for  meet-
ing recurring  expenditure.

Similarly,  it  is  a  ruinous  policy  to  use  taxation  to  pay
subsidies  on  coal,  bread  and  railways.  Every  industry  must
stand  on  its  own  feet.  Otherwise  we  shall  end  in  the  most  hope-
less confusion.  For  this  reason  Sir  Auckland  Geddes's  imposi-
tion of  65.  on  coal  is  to  be  heartily  welcomed,  and  it  is  to  be
hoped  the  railway,  bread,  and  any  other  subsidies  wiU  be  dealt
with  also.  Anything  is  better  than  "  make  believe."  To  do
away  with  subsidies  will  increase  prices.  But  we  shall  at  least
have  some  chance  of  getting  on  to  a  sound  basis.    To  main-


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    213

tain  them  would  also  increase  prices  by  increasing  Government
borrowings,  as  well  as  prolong  a  rotten  economic  situation.
So  long  as  prices  ought  to  be  high,  to  correspond  with  the
increased  inflation,  it  is  useless  to  try  and  dam  the  flood.  A
French  authority  recently  informed  the  writer  that  the  French
Food  Administration  determined  to  provide  cheap  food  for  the
workers.  At  Marseilles,  for  instance,  a  dejeuner  of  IJ  francs
was  provided.  It  was  found,  however,  that  the  result  was
that  the  workmen  merely  bought  wine  for  5  francs  and  cigars
for  2  francs.  They  had  plenty  of  paper  money,  and  they  were
going  to  spend  it  somehow.

This  problem  of  internal  borrowing  is,  if  anything,  more
dangerous  than  external.  We  cannot  borrow  abroad  if  no  one
will  lend.  But,  even  if  we  refuse  to  subscribe  to  our  own
Government  loans,  a  reckless  Government  has  still  one  expedi-
ent fatal  but  simple.  It  can  take  our  money  from  us  without
our  knowing  it  by  issuing  more  currency  notes.  Before  the  war
no  Government  had  such  power.  But  since  we  have  abandoned
the  gold  standard  there  is  no  further  legislative  hindrance  to
unlimited  depreciation.  As  the  currency  increased,  prices
would  go  up  and  up.  No  price  regulation  would  be  of  any  avail,
nor  any  other  method  of  stopping  profiteering.  While  prices
are  rising,  profiteering  is  automatic.  To  follow  this  line,
therefore,  would  be  suicidal.  But  in  a  tight  corner  politicians
do  suicidal  things  and  very  many  Governments  in  history
have  fallen  to  the  temptation,  and  indeed  are  falling  now.

Suppose,  however,  that,  whether  by  choice  or  compulsion,
the  Government  pursues  a  sound  policy.  There  would  then
be  hope  that  we  should  gradually  right  ourselves.  So  far  as
prices  were  dependent  on  our  own  as  apart  from  world  condi-
tions, they  would  tend  to  remain  stationary  or  gradually  to
fall.  Falling  prices  bring,  as  is  well  known,  depression  in
industry.  Production  slackens  in  order  to  readjust  itself
to  consumption.  Profits  disappear.  Businesses  with  heavy
commitments  get  into  difficulties.  No  one  wishes  to  extend.
Unemployment  increases,  and  wages  are  extremely  difficult  to
keep  up.  In  fact,  it  is  a  period  of  unpleasant  convalescence
after  fever.  It  has  to  be  gone  through,  though  it  is  wise
to  see  that  the  high  temperature  does  not  fall  too  rapidly,  since


214  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

a  general  collapse  of  prices  is  to  be  avoided  by  all  possible
means.  We  have  to  brace  ourselves  to  go  through  such  a
period.  If  we  face  facts,  we  may  get  over  our  diJSiculties  more
easily  than  seems  now  likely.

But  suppose,  on  the  other  hand,  that  the  Government  does
not  economize  and  continues  to  borrow.  Suppose,  further,
that  production  and  exports  continue  at  a  low  ebb.  Then
prices  will  probably  rise  very  rapidly.  The  cost  of  imports,
through  the  declining  exchanges,  will  become  so  exorbitant  that
we  shall  hardly  be  able  to  purchase  either  food  or  raw  materials
for  industry,  and  the  very  high  prices  due  to  this  and  to
further  inflation  of  currency  and  credit  will  both  check  consump-
tion here  and  render  competition  abroad  more  difficult,  apart
altogether  from  growing  social  disturbance.  Luckily  for  us,
prices  abroad  are  very  high,  often  much  higher  than  ours.  But
clearly  such  conditions  have  great  dangers.  When  prices  stop
rising,  many  companies  will  experience  great  difficulties.  A
constant  adjustment  between  supply  and  demand,  consump-
tion and  production,  is  at  all  times  necessary,  and  in  times  of
such  violent  fluctuations  a  sufficiently  rapid  adjustment
becomes  more  and  more  difficult.  Moreover,  a  thoroughly
unhealthy  condition  of  affairs,  of  which  we  see  many  traces
now,  is  brought  into  being.  The  normal  consumption  of  all
those  who  are  not  in  a  position  to  increase  their  incomes  falls
off  in  face  of  the  constantly  rising  prices  ;  the  working  popula-
tion is  affected  similarly  unless  it  can  secure  a  continuously
increasing  remuneration  ;  on  the  other  hand,  profits  in  many
trades  and  businesses  are,  or  at  any  rate  appear,  enormous.
"  Easy  come,  easy  go," and  all  the  class  of  profiteers,  whether
from  the  ranks  of  capital  or  labour,  spend  much  on  wasteful
extravagance.  Ultimately,  however,  the  check  in  consumption,
due  to  the  excessive  cost  of  imports,  must  tell.  The  necessary
readjustment  of  production  to  consumption  will  not  be  made
rapidly  enough.  Over-production  in  some  line  or  other  will
prove  exceptionally  dangerous  to  industrial  companies  loaded
with  stocks  bought  at  very  high  prices.  If  there  were  to  be
a  general  collapse  of  prices,  there  would  be  widespread  failure
and  distress.  What  is  more  likely  is  that  conditions  would  be
sufficiently  stable  to  enable  the  readjustment  and  faU  in  prices


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    215

to  be  made  gradually  over  a  more  or  less  lengthy  period  of
depression.

There  is  perhaps  no  country  in  the  world  which  stands  to
suffer  more  than  England  from  very  severely  depreciated
exchanges.  In  countries  where  internal  production  from  the
soil  can  be  rapidly  increased,  or  where  industry  either  is  not
highly  developed  or  can  find  its  raw  materials  within  the
country's  borders,  depreciated  exchanges  can  bring  a  rapid
reduction  of  imports  and  increase  of  exports  without  a  very
great  internal  strain.  But  our  state  is  different.  The  bulk
of  our  imports — i.e.,  food  and  raw  material — we  must  have.
We  cannot  export  without  them.  The  production  of  our  own
soil,  whether  in  food  or  raw  materials,  cannot  be  rapidly
increased.  The  situation  is  therefore  very  difficult.  Let  us
repeat  that  it  requires  imperatively  that  prices  should  not
continue  to  rise.  They  will  certainly  rise,  whatever  may  be  the
measures  against  profiteering,  unless  economy  on  the  part  of  the
Government  allows  a  halt  to  be  called  to  further  inflation
and  unless  by  increased  production  we  can  largely  increase
our  exports.  It  is  not  profiteering — bad  as  that  is — that  is
the  greatest  cause  of  high  prices,  but  that  condition  of  affairs
in  which  profiteering  is  bound,  by  the  very  nature  of  things,  to
flourish.  For  an  extravagant  Government  to  pass  Profiteering
Acts  is  merely  for  Satan  to  rebuke  sin.

Ill

Those  who  think  it  is  easy  to  exaggerate  the  seriousness
of  the  present  position  are  advised  to  study  Mr.  Hoover's
Memorandum  on  the  economic  situation  of  Europe,  published  by
the  Ministry  of  Food  since  the  above  pages  were  written.  For
the  purpose  of  convenience  this  striking  statement  is  printed  at
the  end  of  this  article,  since  there  is  no  living  man  who  has  a
tithe  of  Mr.  Hoover's  knowledge  and  experience  in  this  matter.
Europe  is  in  a  plight  which  few  in  this  country  suspect.  Whilst
our  difficulties  are  great,  they  are  small  compared  with  those
of  our  neighbours.

Mr.  Hoover  endorses  in  a  far  more  striking  way  all  that  has
been  said  above  with  regard  to  the  necessity  of  increased


216  WAR   AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

production,  of  saving,  and  of  Government  economy.  It  is
particularly  interesting  to  note  the  strong  opinion  which  he
expresses  against  any  attempt  to  tamper  by  Government  action
with  ''  the  delicate  and  highly  developed  organization  of  produc-
tion and  distribution,"  or  to  try  to  remedy  our  difficulties  by  the
control  of  prices  whether  national  or  international.

There  is  no  one  concerned  with  Government  price -fixing
during  the  war,  and  the  extraordinary  complications  and
perplexities  produced  thereby,  who  would  not  echo  his  words.
All-important  is  his  statement  that  the  control  of  prices  and
distribution  cannot  stop  with  a  few  prime  commodities,  but
must  go  on,  until  they  have  all  been  placed  under  restriction
"  with  inevitable  stifling  of  the  total  production."  Whilst
Mr.  Hoover  with  his  unrivalled  experience  says  this,  our  Govern-
ment has  introduced  a  Profiteering  Bill  which  may  do  good  in
some  directions,  but  may  easily  do  more  harm  in  others.  Mr.
Lloyd  George  should  remember  that  he  once  said  in  a  famous
speech  that  you  "  cannot  haggle  with  an  earthquake."

There  is  no  sovereign  remedy  for  our  existing  ills.  They  are
the  natural  and  inevitable  consequence  of  the  war.  They  arise
partly  from  the  destruction  of  wealth,  partly  from  the  inflation
of  currency  and  credit,  partly  from  the  interference  of  Govern-
ments, necessary  during  the  war,  with  the  normal  course  of
supply  and  demand,  and  very  largely  from  the  enormous  dis-
location of  world  industry  in  every  direction.  All  these
influences  are  at  work  in  raising  prices.  So  far  as  our  industry
is  affected  by  conditions  in  other  countries,  we  can  merely  wait
till  they  commence  to  recover.  That  depends  partly  on  the
wisdom  of  the  Governments  concerned,  but  far  more  on  the
energy  and  initiative,  hard  work  and  hard  living  of  the  people
of  each  country.  While,  however,  our  neighbours'  troubles
will  bring  us  troubles  too,  these  can  be  enormously  diminished
or  aggravated  by  our  own  action.  The  Government's  duty  is
clear.  It  must  bring  its  expenditure  within  the  limits  of  its
revenue,  cease  borrowing  except  for  redemption  of  short-dated
loans  and  stop  inflating  credit  and  currency.  If  it  has  not  the
courage  to  adhere  firmly  to  such  a  policy,  our  situation  must
infallibly  grow  worse.  It  will  require  great  courage.  All  sorts
of  schemes,  which  ought  for  other  reasons  to  be  carried  out,


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    217

must  be  abandoned,  and  one  criterion  alone  established :
"  Can  we  afford  it  ?  "  not  "Is  it  an  attractive  and  desirable
scheme  ?  "  A  man  would  often  like  to  spend  much  more
than  he  does  for  the  benefit  of  his  family,  but,  if  he  is  not  rich
enough,  he  cannot.  So  with  a  nation.  A  large  part  of  the
population  believe  still  that  the  war  either  will  or  at  least
ought  to  bring  great  improvements  in  conditions.  They  look
for  some  new  thing,  for  a  new  England  where  every  one  will  be
better  o&  than  before,  and  they  regard  very  naturally  drastic
State  action  as  the  main  means  of  achieving  this  end.  The
State  is  either  to  "  nationalize  "  this  or  that  industry  or  it  is
to  spend  vast  sums  on  housing,  forestry,  railways,  canals  and  a
hundred  and  one  laudable  objects.  It  is  to  find  the  means  by
raising  great  sums  from  the  rich,  voluntarily,  if  possible,  or
if  not,  by  compulsion.  It  is  to  secure  to  itself  all  profits,  or,  if
necessary,  to  confiscate  a  good  part  of  existing  wealth.

Such  a  programme  is  not  feasible.  If  a  capital  levy  is  resorted
to,  the  proceeds  must  be  devoted  to  reducing  existing  indebted-
ness, not  to  meet  further  expenditure.  It  is  hardly  possible  to
increase  taxation  on  profits  or  any  other  source  without  dimin-
ishing the  yield.  There  is,  it  is  true,  urgent  need  for  large
expenditure  in  many  directions.  But  there  is  no  benefit
Government  expenditure  can  give  commensurate  with  the  evils
of  further  inflation  and  further  rises  in  prices.  Nationalization
or  State  Socialism  in  any  form,  looked  at  from  the  economic
standpoint,  must  be  judged  in  the  long  run  according  as  to
whether  it  will  ultimately  increase  our  national  income — i.e.,
result  in  the  production  of  more  wealth  with  less  effort.

For  the  immediate  present  it  must  be  judged  according  as
to  whether  it  involves  further  Government  expenditure.  If
it  does,  existing  conditions  forbid  us  in  the  interest  of  every
class  of  the  community  to  enter  upon  it.

Until  economy  is  the  watchword  of  the  Government  in  power,
it  is  useless  to  consider  currency  or  any  other  reform.  If  once
it  is  certain  we  have  reached  stability  in  Government  expendi-
ture, the  way  will  be  cleared  for  grappling  with  our  other
problems.  Confidence  will  begin  to  return  ;  industry  will  be
able  to  make  plans  for  the  future,  and  reform  of  the  currency
can  be  taken  in  hand.    If,  however,  we  are  deceived  by  the


218  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

appearance  of  prosperity  into  thinking  we  can  still  afford  all
kinds  of  experiments,  we  shall  invite  the  gravest  economic  and
financial  disorder.


The  Economic  Situation  in  Europe
Statement  and  Analysis  hy  Mr.  Herbert  Hoover.


The  economic  difficulties  of  Europe  as  a  whole  at  the
signature  of  Peace  may  be  almost  summarized  in  the  phrase
*'  demoralized  productivity."  The  production  of  necessaries
for  this  450,000,000  population  (including  Russia)  has  never
been  at  so  low  an  ebb  as  at  this  day.

A  summary  of  the  unemployment  bureaux  in  Europe  will
show  that  15,000,000  families  are  receiving  unemployment
allowances  in  one  form  or  another,  and  are,  in  the  main,  being
paid  by  constant  inflation  of  currency.  A  rough  estimate
would  indicate  that  the  population  of  Europe  is  at  least
100,000,000  greater  than  can  be  supported  without  imports,
and  must  live  by  the  production  and  distribution  of  exports  ;
and  their  situation  is  aggravated  not  only  by  lack  of  raw
materials,  imports,  but  by  low  production  of  European  raw
materials.  Due  to  the  same  low  production,  Europe  is  to-day
importing  vast  quantities  of  certain  commodities  which  she
formerly  produced  for  herself  and  can  again  produce.  Gener-
ally in  production,  she  is  not  only  far  below  even  the  level  of
the  time  of  the  signing  of  the  Armistice,  but  far  below  the  main-
tenance of  life  and  health  without  an  unparalleled  rate  of
import.

Even  prior  to  the  war  these  populations  managed  to  produce
from  year  to  year  but  a  trifling  margin  of  commodities  over
necessary  consumption,  or  to  exchange  for  deficient  commodi-
ties from  abroad.  It  is  true  that  in  pre-war  times  Europe
managed  to  maintain  armies  and  navies,  together  with  a
comparatively  small  class  of  non-producers,  and  to  gain  slowly
in  physical  improvements  and  investment  abroad ;  but  these
luxuries  and  accumulations  were  only  at  the  cost  of  a  dan-


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    219

gerously  low  standard  of  living  to  a  very  large  number.  The
productivity  of  Europe  in  pre-war  times  had  behind  it  the
intensive  stimulus  of  individualism  and  of  a  high  state  of
economic  discipline,  and  the  density  of  population  at  all  times
responded  closely  to  the  resulting  volume  of  production.

During  the  war  the  intensive  organization  of  economy  in
consumption,  the  patriotic  stimulus  to  exertion,  and  the
addition  of  women  to  productive  labour  largely  balanced  the
diversion  of  man-power  to  war  and  munitions.  These  impulses
have  been  lost.

II

It  is  not  necessary  to  review  at  length  the  causes  of  this
decrease  of  productivity.     They  are,  in  the  main,  as  follows  : —

The  industrial  and  commercial  demoralization  arising
originally  out  of  the  war,  but  continued  out  of  the  struggle
for  political  rearrangements  during  the  Armistice,  the
creation  of  new  Governments,  their  inexperience,  and
friction  between  these  Governments  in  the  readjustment
of  economic  relations.

The  proper  and  insistent  demand  of  labour  for  higher
standards  of  living  and  a  voice  in  administration  of  their
effort  has  unfortunately  become  impregnated  with  the
theory  that  the  limitation  of  effort  below  physical  neces-
sity will  increase  the  total  employment  or  improve  their
condition.

There  is  a  great  relaxation  of  effort  as  the  reflex  of
physical  exhaustion  of  large  sections  of  the  population
from  privation  and  from  the  mental  and  physical  strain
of  the  war.

To  a  minor  degree,  considering  the  whole  volume,
there  has  been  a  destruction  of  equipment  and  tools,  and
loss  of  organization  and  skill,  due  to  war  diversions,  with  a
loss  of  man-power.  This  latter  is  not  at  present  pertinent
in  the  face  of  present  unemployment.

(The  demoralization  in  production  of  coal.  Europe
to-day  is  an  example  in  point  of  all  these  three  forces
mentioned  above,  and  promises  a  coal  famine  with  in-
dustrial disaster  unless  remedied.    It  is  due  in  a  small


220  WAK  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

percentage — from  the  destruction  of  man-power — to  the
physical  limitation  of  coal  mines  or  their  equipment.
It  is  due  in  the  largest  degree  to  the  human  factor  of
the  limitation  of  effort.)

The  continuation  of  the  Blockade  after  the  Armistice
has  undoubtedly  destroyed  enterprise  even  in  open
countries,  and,  of  course,  prevented  any  recovery  in  enemy
countries.  The  shortage  in  overseas  transportation,  and
the  result  of  uncertainties  of  the  Armistice  upon  inter-
national credits  have  checked  the  flow  of  raw  materials
and  prevented  recovery  in  the  production  of  commodities
especially  needed  for  exchange  for  imports  from  overseas.
The  result  of  this  delay  has  been  unemployment,  stagna-
tion, absorption  of  capital  in  consumable  commodities  to
some  extent  al.1  over  Europe.

From  all  these  causes,  accumulated  to  different  inten-
sity in  different  localities,  there  is  the  essential  fact  that,
unless  productivity  can  he  rapidly  increased,  there  can  he
nothing  hut  political,  moral  and  economic  chaos,  finally
interpreting  itself  in  loss  of  life  on  a  scale  hitherto  undreamed
of,

III

Coincident  with  this  demoralization  in  production,  other  dis-
astrous economic  phenomena  have  developed  themselves,
the  principal  one  of  which  is  that  the  very  large  wages  paid
to  special  workers,  and  the  large  sums  accumulated  by  specula-
tion and  manufacture  during  the  war,  have  raised  the  standard
of  living  in  many  individuals  from  the  level  of  mere  necessities
to  a  high  level  of  luxuries.  Beyond  this  class  there  is  a  reflex
in  many  other  classes  from  the  strenuous  economies  against
waste  and  the  consumption  of  non-essentials  in  all  countries  ;
and,  as  a  result,  there  is  to-day  an  outbreak  of  extravagance
to  a  disheartening  degree.

Another  economic  change,  of  favourable  nature  from  a
human  point  of  view,  but  intensifying  the  problems  of  the
moment,  has  been  the  rise  in  the  standard  of  living  in  large
sections  of  the  working  classes  through  the  larger  and  better
wage  distribution,  separation  allowances,  etc.,  during  the  war.


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    221

Parallel  with  these  classes  are  those  of  fixed  income,  the  un-
organized workers,  and  the  unemployed,  on  whom  the  rising
cost  of  living  is  inflicting  the  greatest  hardship.


IV

During  some  short  period  it  may  be  possible  for  the  Western
hemisphere,  which  has  retained  and  even  increased  its  produc-
tivity, to  supply  the  deficiencies  of  Europe.  Such  deficiencies
would  have  to  be  supplied  in  large  degree  upon  credits.  But
aside  from  this,  the  entire  surplus  productivity  of  the  Western
hemisphere  is  totally  incapable  of  meeting  the  present  deficiency  in
European  production  if  it  is  long  continued.  Nor,  as  a  practical
fact,  could  credits  he  mobilized  for  this  purpose  for  more  than  a
short  period,  because  all  credits  must  necessarily  be  simply  an
advance  against  the  return  of  commodities  in  exchange,  and
credits  will  break  down  the  instant  that  the  return  of  commodities
becomes  improbable.  Further,  if  such  credits  be  obtained  for
more  than  temporary  purposes,  it  would  result  in  economic
slavery  of  Europe  to  the  Western  hemisphere,  and  the  ultimate
end  would  be  war  again.

The  solution,  therefore,  of  the  problem,  except  in  purely
temporary  aspects,  does  not  lie  in  a  stream  of  commodities
on  credit  from  the  Western  hemisphere,  but  lies  in  a  vigorous
realization  of  the  actual  situation  in  each  country  of  Europe  and
a  resolute  statesmanship  based  on  such  a  realization.  The
populations  of  Europe  must  be  brought  to  a  realization  that
productivity  must  be  instantly  increased.


The  outcome  of  social  ferment  and  class  consciousness  is
the  most  difficult  of  problems  to  solve.  Growing  out  of  the
yearning  for  relief  from  the  misery  imposed  by  the  war,  and
out  of  the  sharp  contrasts  in  degree  of  class  suffering,  especially
in  defeated  countries,  the  demand  for  economic  change  in  the
status  of  labour  has  received  a  great  stimulus  leading  to
violence  and  revolution  in  large  areas,  and  a  great  impulse  to
radicalism  in  all  others.     In  the  main,  these  movements  have


222  WAR   AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

not  infected  the  agricultural  classes,  but  are  essentially  a  town
phenomenon.

In  this  ferment  Socialism  or  Communism  has  claimed  to
speak  for  all  the  downtrodden,  to  alone  bespeak  human  sym-
pathy and  to  alone  present  remedies — to  be  the  lone  voice  of
Liberalism.  Every  economic  patent  medicine  has  flocked
under  this  banner.  Europe  is  full  of  noisy  denunciation  of
private  property  as  necessarily  being  exploitation.  Consider-
able reliance  upon  some  degree  of  Communism  has  been
embraced  by  industrial  labour  even  in  non -revolutionary  coun-
tries. Its  extremists  are  loud  in  assertion  that  production  can
be  maintained  by  the  impulse  of  altruism  alone,  instead  of
self-interest.  Too  often  they  are  embracing  criminal  support
and  criminal  methods  to  enforce  their  ideals  of  human  better-
ment. Every  country  is  engaged  in  political  experimentation
with  varying  degrees  of  these  hj^otheses,  and  so  far  every
trial  has  reduced  production.

The  Western  hemisphere,  with  its  more  equitable  division
of  property,  its  wider  equality  of  opportunity,  still  believes
that  productivity  rests  on  the  stimulus  from  all  the  immu-
table human  qualities  of  selfishness,  self-interest,  altruism,
intelligence  with  education.  It  still  believes  that  the  remedy  of
economic  wrong  lies  not  in  tampering  with  the  delicate  and
highly- developed  organization  of  production  and  distribution
but  in  a  better  division  of  the  profits  arising  from  them.  It  still
believes  in  the  constitutional  solution  of  these  problems  by
the  will  of  the  majority,  while  Europe  is  drifting  toward  the
domination  of  extremist  minorities.  The  Western  hemi-
sphere's productivity  is  being  maintained  at  a  surplus  over  its
own  needs.

The  first  and  cardinal  effort  of  European  statesmanship
must  be  to  secure  the  materials  and  tools  to  labour,  and  to
secure  its  return  to  work.  They  must  also  secure  a  recogni-
tion of  the  fact  that,  whatever  the  economic  theory  or  political
cry,  it  must  embrace  the  maximum  individual  effort ;  for  there
is  no  margin  of  surplus  productivity  in  Europe  to  risk  revolu-
tionary experimentation.

No  economic  policy  will  bring  food  to  tJwse  stomachs  or  fuel
to  those  hearths  that  does  not  secure  the  maximum  production.


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    223

There  is  no  use  of  tears  over  rising  prices ;  they  are,  to  a  great
degree,  a  visualization  of  insufficient  production.

VI

During  the  period  of  reconstruction  and  recovery  from  reduced
productivity  conservation  in  the  consumption  of  non-essential
commodities  is  more  critical  than  at  any  time  during  the
war.  The  relaxation  of  restriction  on  imports  and  on  consump-
tion of  articles  of  this  character  since  the  Armistice  is  disheart-
ening in  outlook.  It  finds  its  indication  in  the  increased  con-
sumption of  beverages  and  articles  de  luxe  in  many  countries,
even  above  a  pre-war  normal.

Never  has  there  been  such  a  necessity  for  the  curtailment
of  luxury  as  exists  to-day.

VII

The  universal  practice,  in  all  the  countries  at  war,  of  raising
funds  by  inflation  of  currency  is  now  bringing  home  its  burden
of  trouble,  and  in  extreme  cases  the  most  resolute  action
must  be  taken,  and  at  once.  In  other  countries  of  even  the
lesser  degree  of  inflation  such  currency  must  be  reduced  and
included  in  the  funded  debt,  or  alternatively  the  price  of
wages,  living,  and  international  exchange  must  be  expected
to  adjust  itself  to  this  depression.  The  outcry  against  the
high  cost  of  living,  the  constant  increase  of  wages  and  the  fall
in  exchange  that  is  going  on  are  in  a  considerable  degree  due
to  this  inevitable  readjustment.

VIII

The  stimulation  of  production  lies  in  the  path  of  avoidance
of  all  limitations  of  the  reward  to  the  actual  producer.  In
other  words,  attempts  to  control  prices  (otherwise  than  in  the
sense  of  control  of  vicious  speculation)  are  the  negation  of  stimu-
lation to  production,  and  can  only  result  in  further  curtailment
of  the  total  of  commodities  available  for  the  total  number  of
human  beings  to  be  fed,  clothed,  and  housed.


224  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

There  still  exist  in  Europe  great  bureaucracies  created  from
the  necessity  of  control  of  price  and  distribution  by  the  condi-
tions of  the  war,  who  are  loth  to  recognize  that  with  world  mar-
kets open  no  such  acute  situation  exists,  and  that  their  continued
existence  is  not  essential  except  in  the  control  of  speculation.
The  argument  so  much  advanced  that  world  shortage  may
develop,  and  justifies  continued  control  of  distribution  and
price,  is  based  upon  the  fallacious  assumption  that,  even  if  the
world  markets  are  freed  of  restraint,  there  is  a  shortage  to-day
in  any  commodity  so  profound  as  to  endanger  health  and  life.

From  any  present  evidence,  thanks  to  the  high  production
outside  Europe,  no  shortage  exists  that  will  not  find  its
quick  remedy  in  diminished  consumption  or  substitution
of  other  commodities,  through  minor  alteration  and  price.
All  attempts  at  international  control  of  price,  with  a
view  to  benefit  the  population  in  Europe  at  the  cost  of
the  producer  elsewhere,  will  inevitably  produce  retrogression
in  production  abroad,  the  impact  of  which  will  be  felt  in  Europe
more  than  elsewhere.  A  decrease  of  20  per  cent  of  Western
hemisphere  wheat  would  not  starve  the  West ;  it  would  starve
Europe.

It  must  never  be  overlooked  that  control  of  price  and  distri-
bution cannot  stop  with  a  few  prime  commodities,  but,  once
started,  its  repercussions  drive  into  a  succeeding  chain  of  com-
modities ;  and  that  on  the  downward  road  of  price  control  there
can  be  no  stoppage  until  all  commodities  have  been  placed
under  restriction,  with  inevitable  stifling  of  the  total  pro-
duction.

It  is  also  often  overlooked  by  the  advocates  of  price  control
that,  whereas  the  high  level  of  production  was  maintained
during  the  war  even  under  a  restraint  of  price,  this  high
production  was  obtained  by  the  most  vivid  appeal  to  patriotic
impulse  on  both  sides  of  the  front.  This  stimulus  to  produc-
tion and  distribution  no  longer  obtains,  and  the  world  must  go
back  to  the  prime  impulse — and  that  is  the  regard  to  the  indi-
vidual producer  and  distributor.

That  body  of  advocates  who  have  deduced  from  war  pheno-
mena that  production  and  distribution  can  be  increased  and
maintained  by  appealing  to  altruism  as  the  equivalent  of


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    225

patriotism  or  self-interest  should  observe  the  phenomena  of
Russia,  where  the  greatest  food-exporting  country  is  to-day
starving.

IX

It  must  be  evident  that  the  production  cannot  increase  if
political  incompetence  continues  in  blockade,  embargoes,
censorship,  mobilization,  large  armies,  navies  and  war.


There  are  certain  foundations  of  industry  in  Europe  that,
no  matter  what  the  national  or  personal  ownership  or  control
may  be,  yet  partake  of  the  nature  of  public  utilities  in  which
other  nations  have  a  moral  right.  For  instance,  the  discrimina-
tory control  of  ships,  railways,  waterways,  coal  and  iron  in
such  a  manner  as  to  prevent  the  resumption  of  production
by  other  States  will  inevitably  debar  economic  recuperation
and  lead  to  local  spats  of  economic  chaos  with  its  ultimate
infection  abroad,  to  say  nothing  of  the  decrease  in  productivity.
These  misuses  are  already  too  evident.

XI

The  question  of  assistance  from  the  Western  hemisphere
during  a  certain  temporary  period,  and  the  devotion  of  its
limited  surplus  productivity  to  Europe,  is  a  matter  of  impor-
tance and  one  that  requires  statesmanlike  handling  and  vision.
It  is  but  a  minor  question  compared  to  those  stated  above,  and
it  is  in  a  great  degree  dependent  upon  the  proper  solution  of  the
factors  already  touched  upon.

It  is  a  service  that  the  Western  hemisphere  must  approach
with  a  high  sense  of  human  duty  and  sympathy.  This  sense
will,  however,  be  best  performed  by  the  insistence  that  its  aid
would  not  be  forthcoming  to  any  country  that  did  not  reso-
lutely set  in  order  its  internal  financial  and  political  situations,
that  did  not  devote  itself  to  the  increase  of  productivity,  that
did  not  curtail  consumption  of  luxuries  and  the  expenditure
upon  armaments,  and  did  not  cease  hostilities,  and  did  not
treat  its  neighbours  fairly.

Q


226  WAR   AND  NATIONAL   FINANCE

If  these  conditions  were  complied  with,  it  is  the  duty  of  the
West  to  put  forth  every  possible  effort  to  tide  Europe  over  this
period  of  temporary  economic  difficulties.  Without  the  fulfil-
ment of  these  conditions,  the  effort  is  hopeless.

With  Europe  turned  towards  peace,  with  her  skill  and
labour  aligned  to  overcome  the  terrible  accumulation  of  diffi-
culty, the  economic  burden  upon  the  West  should  not  last
over  a  year,  and  can  be  carried,  and  will  be  repaid.  To  effect
these  results  the  resources  of  the  Western  hemisphere  and  of
Europe  must  be  mobilized.

Herbert  Hoover.

July  3,  1919.


l  X

INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL  CO-OPEEATION

(March,  1920)

In  a  general  way  every  one  is  aware  of  the  very  grave —
many  think  desperate — economic  and  financial  state  of  Europe.
The  disastrous  effects  of  so  prolonged  and  exhausting  a  war,
which  were  largely  hidden  from  the  people  of  this  country,
at  any  rate  in  the  course  of  the  struggle  itself,  are  now  gradually
making  themselves  manifest ;  and  the  end  is  not  yet,  for  the
complications  of  this  universal  after-war  economic  disease
have  by  no  means  reached  their  crisis.  Meanwhile  our  com-
parative comfort  in  this  country  in  no  small  degree  blinds  us
to  the  suffering  and  privation  which  are  so  widespread  on  the
Continent ;  and  trade  at  home  and  to  other  continents  is  good
enough  to  make  our  manufacturers  feel  somewhat  independent
of  the  necessity  to  export  to  Europe.  Nevertheless,  the  finan-
cial and  economic  crisis  will  continue  to  render  the  European
horizon  darker  and  darker,  and  it  is  our  duty  to  ask  whether
there  is  any  remedy  to  Europe's  ills,  or  even  any  palliative,  in
the  form  of  some  closer  and  more  active  international  co-
operation than  hitherto.  It  is  a  very  common  supposition
that  an  ample  supply  of  international  credit  is  the  proper
remedy.  In  the  present  article  this  supposition  will  be  ex-
amined, and  for  the  purpose  of  putting  it  in  its  proper
setting  and  proportion  it  is  necessary  to  take  rather  a  wide
view,  and  perhaps  give  expression  to  what  may  seem  a  good
many  platitudes.

Broadly  speaking,  the  war  has  produced  in  all  countries —
certainly  in  all  belligerent  countries — the  same  economic
effects,  and  we  find,  therefore,  that,   with  local  variations

227


228  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

and  with  greater  or  less  intensity,  similar  troubles  affect  all
European  nations.  Their  causes  may  roughly  be  classified
as  economic,  political  and  psychological.

The  economic  causes  are  sufficiently  obvious,  and  only  a
few  of  them  need  be  briefly  mentioned.  The  vast  loss  of
European  capital,  both  fixed  and  circulating,  is  one  of  the
most  serious  evils.  The  results  are  felt  most  acutely  in  the  very
serious  depreciation  of  means  of  transportation,  in  lack  of
houses,  in  a  great  dearth  of  raw  materials  and  stocks  of  all
kind,  particularly  of  coal.  It  is  important  to  note  that  what-
ever foreign  credit  is  provided,  the  replacement  of  this  capital
is  at  best  a  matter  of  time.  It  will  be  some  time,  for  instance,
before  the  railways,  ports  and  other  means  of  transportation
can  recover  their  efficiency.

In  the  second  place,  the  enormous  financial  demands  of  the
war  have  entirely  overstrained  the  currency  systems  of  Europe.
In  the  case  of  some  countries  currency  depreciation  is  mainly
due  to  the  internal  requirements  of  the  Government,  which  have
been  satisfied  by  the  printing  of  vast  quantities  of  paper  money  ;
in  other  cases  a  powerful  contributory  factor  has  been  the  vast
excess  of  imports  over  exports,  leading  to  a  depreciation  of
the  exchanges.  But  whatever  the  immediate  cause,  there  can
be  no  doubt  that  the  chaos  of  European  currencies  is  by  far  the
most  menacing  symptom  of  the  present  day.  The  constant
depreciation,  the  constant  fluctuation  of  the  standard  of  value,
renders  all  industry  and  trade  mere  speculation,  drives  us  back,
first  in  international  and  then  in  internal  transactions,  to
the  primitive  method  of  barter,  and  renders  impossible  the
highly  complex  and  delicate  financial  and  industrial  system  of
pre-war  days.  If  these  conditions  are  allowed  to  develop,  the
population  of  Europe,  brought  into  being  in  such  huge  numbers
in  the  last  forty  years  by  the  intensive  development  of  modern
means  of  wealth-production,  is  bound  to  suffer  not  merely  a
serious  deterioration  in  the  standard  of  living,  but  actually  a
considerable  diminution  in  numbers,  in  order  to  restore  the
equilibrium  between  population  and  production.  It  is  un-
necessary, however,  to  develop  all  the  grave  consequences  of
currency  depreciation.  Its  effect,  if  it  is  continued  far  enough,
must  be  almost  to  disintegrate  a  modem  highly  developed


1


INTERNATIONAL  l^INANCIAL  CO-OPEKATION     229

industrial  society,  to  destroy  its  past  savings,  and  to  reduce
it  to  ruin  and  despair.  To  secure  some  stability  of  currency
conditions  is  therefore  imperative.  On  the  other  hand,  it
is  more  than  doubtful  if  the  time  is  yet  reached  when  any  joint
international  scheme  of  reform,  which,  if  the  gold  standard  is  to
be  generally  retained,  will  almost  certainly  be  necessary  later,
can  be  undertaken.  A  stable  currency  seems  impossible  for
any  country  whose  foreign  trade  still  shows  an  enormous
adverse  balance,  and  whose  budget  makes  no  pretence  of
balancing  its  receipts  and  expenditure.  To  be  able  to  maintain
a  sound  currency  a  country  must  pay  its  way  in  the  world.
Therefore,  from  the  point  of  view  of  currency,  as  of  everything
else,  the  productive  process  must  first  be  set  going  again.  Just
as  serious  currency  depreciation  diminishes  production,  both
industrial  and  agricultural,  so  a  restoration  or  an  increase
of  production  is  the  only  foundation  for  a  return  to  sound
currency,  as  indeed  it  is  the  foundation  of  taxation.  We  must
deal  first  with  the  basic  problem  of  restoring  the  cycle  of
production  and  exchange,  though  hand  in  hand  should,  of
course,  go  an  insistence  on  proper  taxation,  on  the  imperative
necessity  of  the  various  Governments  balancing  their  budgets,
and  on  some  control  over  the  too  free  creation  of  credit.

A  third  economic  difficulty  facing  many  of  the  belligerent
countries  is  that,  even  if  they  are  ready  to  export,  they  have
lost  their  foreign  markets  ;  their  overseas  trade  is  gone,  and
others  have  taken  their  place.  New  connections  and  new
trades  must  be  developed,  and  time  is  required  for  this.  A
supply  of  credit  alone  will  not  bring  old  markets  back.

A  fourth  cause  of  troubles,  of  great  importance,  is  the
continuance  of  Government  control  over  trade  and  industry
— ^including  price  fixing,  nationalization  projects,  socialization
of  industry,  and  so  forth.  We  know  the  very  serious  effects
in  this  country,  but  they  are  not  less  so  on  the  Continent.
Many  Governments  seem  to  be  getting  their  countries  into  a
most  hopeless  tangle  by  keeping  prices  lower  than  the  deprecia-
tion of  their  currency  justifies.  They  check  production,
increase  Government  expenditure,  and  with  it  the  paper
currency,  and  continue  a  vicious  circle  which  must  ultimately
end  in  disaster.    Interference  with  ordinary  economic  laws


230  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

produces,  indeed,  the  most  widespread  and  unexpected  conse-
quences ;  and  whether  it  is  the  rent  of  the  houses,  the  price  of
coal  or  of  butter,  or  anything  else,  almost  at  any  cost  we  should
re-establish  freedom.  But  with  present  socialistic  tendencies
in  Europe  whether  we  shall  do  so  seems  doubtful.  Indeed,
the  probable  exchange  blockade  of  Europe  may  drive  us  all
still  more  into  the  arms  of  Governments  again.  Huge  national-
ization projects  stand  condemned  on  this  ground  alone.

Then,  again,  in  the  case  of  our  Allies,  France  and  Italy,
the  very  absorption  of  all  their  national  energies  in  war  has
landed  them  in  a  serious  difficulty,  in  which  we  too,  in  a  minor
degree,  find  ourselves.  In  order  that  the  whole  of  their  man-
power and  all  their  industrial  forces  might  be  applied  to  war
purposes  we  kept  them  in  a  kind  of  hot-house  atmosphere,  and
provided  them  on  credit  with  food  and  all  the  other  materials
they  had  to  have,  so  that  their  economic  development  took  a
lop-sided  form.  They  came  to  rely  on  credit  for  most  of  their
imports.  When  these  and  their  war  industry  both  came  to  a
sudden  end,  they  suffered  like  hot-house  plants  when  the  steam
heat  is  turned  off.  They  cannot  adjust  themselves  at  once  to
their  new  environment.  The  recovery  of  equilibrium  cannot,
indeed,  but  take  some  years.  Both  the  people  of  the  United
States  and  we,  too,  should  remember  that  these  countries  find
themselves  in  this  plight  because  they  were  called  on  for  our
sakes  as  well  as  their  own  to  'devote  all  and  more  than  all
their  normal  economic  strength  to  the  war.  This  argument
should  have  weight  in  the  future  consideration  both  of  inter-
national indebtedness  and  of  the  grant  of  credit.

If  we  turn  our  eyes  from  economic  to  political  Europe  there
is  nothing  to  encourage  us.  Nothing  was  more  depressing
to  any  one  who  spent  some  months  in  Paris  during  the  spring
than  the  complete  absence  of  any  generous  or  even  sane  out-
look on  future  international  relations.  The  war  seemed  merely
to  have  intensified  tenfold  the  mutual  dislike  which  existed
before.  We  hated  our  enemies  and,  of  course,  they  hated  us  ;
most  of  the  Allies  seemed  to  hate  one  another  ;  above  all,  the
small  nations  which  had  just  emerged  hated  one  another  with
an  even  more  bitter  intensity.  At  that  time,  at  any  rate,
they  clamoured  for  credit  in  order  to  buy  more  high  explosives


!


INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL  CO-OPERATION    231

and  machine-guns  rather  than  for  the  restoration  of  industry.
Was  it  not  folly,  one  thought,  to  lend  such  countries  money  ?
They  had  no  capacity  or  experience  for  governing,  and  would
certainly  waste  it.  Worse  still,  what  chance  was  there  for
currency  or  any  other  economic  reform  when  they  were  spend-
ing on  armaments  and  plans  for  international  fratricide  far
more  than  they  could  possibly  raise  by  taxation  or  by  any
other  means  than  the  printing-press  ?  It  is  useless  to  talk  of
the  economic  regeneration  of  Europe  in  face  of  this  prevailing
international  hostility  and  mutual  fear.  But  can  we,  who
should  know  better,  blame  them,  when  we  are  responsible
for  the  Reparation  Chapter  of  the  Peace  Treaty  ?

Lastly,  we  have  to  add  to  the  economic  and  political  troubles
of  Europe  the  profound  psychological  disturbance  of  the  war
which  so  seriously  affects  any  rapid  economic  recovery.  Our
modern  millions  are  enslaved  by  the  great  machine  of  modern
civilization  by  means  of  which  alone  they  have  been  brought
into  the  world,  and  they  can  only  keep  themselves  alive  by
working  it.  Yet  even  before  the  war  they  were  revolting
against  it,  and  the  ferment  of  the  war  has  immensely  sharpened
their  hostility.  Great  as  have  been  abuses  of  the  capitalistic
system,  it  is  doubtful  whether  any  other  system  can  free  itself
from  the  soulless  and  monotonous  character  of  modem  industrial
life,  which  is  at  the  bottom  of  nearly  all  the  unrest,  and  more
doubtful  still  whether  it  can  produce  wealth  at  the  same
rate.  It  is  ominous,  therefore,  that  at  a  time  when  greater
saving  and  greater  production  are  essential  to  our  recuperation,
the  great  mass  of  workers  in  all  European  countries,  resenting
bitterly  the  profiteering  which  inevitably  arises  from  existing
conditions,  should  be  dimly  contemplating  the  overthrow  of
our  whole  economic  structure.  So  far  are  they  from  realizing
that  their  very  life  depends  on  working  it  at  full  blast,  that
they  believe  there  exists  even  now  in  the  world  great  stores
of  ready-made  wealth  which  they  ought  to  and  can  secure
if  they  are  only  insistent  enough  and  if  they  can  utilize  the
machinery  of  the  State  to  extract  if  from  its  present  owners.
In  consequence,  all  over  Europe,  at  a  moment  when  Govern-
ment expenditure  should  be  reduced  to  a  minimum,  clamorous
demands  for  the  extension  in  every  sphere  of  Government


232  WAR   AND   NATIONAL  FINANCE

activities  are  pressed  forward.  Government  expenditure  thus
bounds  up,  and,  since  the  limits  of  taxation  and  loans  are
reached,  further  currency  depreciation  and  a  further  approach
towards  the  abyss  are  the  result.

Consider  some  of  the  results  of  this  weltering  economic,
political  and  psychological  chaos.  Where  all  three  influences,
and  particularly  the  psychological,  have  had  the  fullest  play —
namely,  in  Russia — they  have  produced  more  or  less  complete
ruin,  notwithstanding  that  Russia  can  live  for  years  through
chaos  which  would  annihilate  such  industrial  States  as  England,
Belgium  or  Germany  in  a  few  months.  Coming  further  east,
we  find  the  same  influences  reducing  Austria  to  such  a  position
that  she  is  beyond  any  ordinary  help  through  the  provision  of
credit,  and  is  now  merely  the  recipient  of  charity.  Germany's
position  appears  to  get  worse,  not  better.  Though  her  head  is
still  above  water,  she  is  farther  down  the  road  to  ruin  than
France  or  Italy.  She,  too,  has  reached  the  point  when  assist-
ance through  ordinary  financial  and  commercial  chann  Is
is  becoming  more  and  more  difficult,  if  not  impossible.  The
continued  depreciation  of  her  currency  is  due  partly  to  internal
exhaustion,  partly  to  the  necessity  she  is  under  to  meet  her
maturing  obligations  abroad  and  to  make  at  any  cost  purchases
of  raw  materials  and  food.  She  has  to  sell  marks  down  to
any  figure  to  fulfil  these  two  latter  requirements.  The  conse-
quent collapse  in  her  exchange  leads  to  the  peculiar  position
that  internally  her  currency  is  still  of  considerably  greater
value  than  externally,  with  the  result  that  absolutely  necessary
imports  by  the  Government  must  either  be  sold  at  a  price  too
high  for  the  public  to  pay  or  that  price  must  be  reduced  by
subsidies  which  either  must  break  the  taxpayer's  back  or  be
met  by  increased  paper  issues.  But,  of  course,  the  tendency
must  be  for  internal  prices  to  rise  further  to  the  level  of  the
exchange,  with  the  necessary  result  of  further  inflation.  This
process  cannot  continue  indefinitely  without  Germany's  cur-
rency ultimately  losing  all  value.  When  once  her  people
have  abandoned  all  confidence  in  their  currency  it  is  difficult
to  foresee  the  consequences.  As  Mr.  Hawtrey  has  recently
shown  in  his  able  book,  France,  in  a  similar  position  a  hundred
years  ago,  imported  great  quantities  of  gold  to  replace  the


INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL  CO-OPEEATION    233

assignats.  But  could  Germany  do  that  ?  And  if  not,  what
workable  alternative  has  she  but  to  create  a  new  paper  standard,
which  might  go  the  same  way  as  the  last  ?  It  is  not  to  our
interests  to  let  Germany  fall  into  absolute  chaos.  Whatever
we  might  be  able  to  do,  Continental  Europe  cannot  get  on
without  Germany,  and  her  entire  collapse  would  bring  disaster
to  Europe.  Her  present  Government,  which  we  should  support
if  we  do  not  want  to  see  the  reactionaries  or  Bolshevists  in
power,  seems  to  be  doing  its  best  to  make  both  ends  meet,  and
heavy  taxation  is  being  imposed.  But  her  credit  is  too  depre-
ciated and  her  future  too  uncertain  for  her  primary  needs  in
the  way  of  raw  material  to  be  met  by  ordinary  banking  credit.
The  risks  are  too  great  both  for  importers  and  exporters.

The  French  and  Italian  situation  is  not  yet  so  desperate
as  the  German.  Their  exchanges  have  not  yet  reached  any-
thing like  so  tremendous  a  depreciation,  and  there  are  signs
of  recovery  in  their  export  trade,  particularly  in  Italy's  case ;
but  their  future  is  far  from  rosy.  It  is  quite  impossible  for
them  to  continue  importing  on  the  scale  they  are  doing  now.
Many  people  do  not  recognize  that  a  year  ago  these  countries
were  able  to  obtain  much  more  credit  than  they  can  to-day.
In  the  last  year  both  London  and  New  York  have  advanced
them  very  considerable  sums  through  ordinary  banking  and
private  channels.  The  most  recent  National  City  Bank
circular  states  that  *'  the  present  volume  of  trade  can  be  ac-
counted for  only  upon  the  theory  that  individual  credits  have
been  granted  upon  a  larger  scale  than  is  generally  known,"  and
that  "  there  is  much  evidence  to  confirm  this  opinion."  But
this  cannot  continue  indefinitely.  Most  of  these  credits  can-
not be  paid  off,  except  by  renewals  of  some  sort  or  by  raising
long  loans  in  foreign  countries,  the  public  response  to  which  is
doubtful.  It  will  be  difficult  in  these  circumstances  to  secure
fresh  credits.  There  seems  no  alternative,  therefore,  between
an  enormous — perhaps  impossible — decrease  in  imports  from
overseas  or  a  collapse  of  the  exchanges,  nor  any  reason,  indeed,
why  if  the  situation  is  left  to  develop  itself  the  French  and
Italian  situation  should  not  work  out  in  more  or  less  the  same
way  as  the  German  is  now  doirg.

The  statistics  published  by  the  Supreme  Economic  Council


234  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

show  that  between  January  and  the  end  of  September,  1919,
French  imports  exceeded  exports  by  £538,000,000,  and  between
January  and  October,  1919,  Italian|imports  exceeded  exports  by
£390,000,000.  Their  invisible  exports  have  to  be  set  against
these  imports,  but  it  is  doubtful  if  they  can  be  very  great.
There  are  signs  of  improvement,  but,  in  the  case  of  France  at
any  rate,  they  are  not  very  striking.  Adverse  balances  of
these  dimensions  could  not,  and  should  not,  be  corrected  by
credits.  A  collapse  of  the  French  and  Italian,  as  well  as  of
the  German,  exchange  would,  of  course,  very  seriously  affect
all  the  smaller  nations  of  Europe  as  well  as  ourselves.  Our
exchange  is  being  depressed  now  because  of  European  nations
meeting  their  obligations  in  the  United  States  through  London,
and,  as  long  as  these  nations  have  any  sterling  they  can  so
use,  must  continue  to  be  depressed.  It  is  possible  that  all  the
big  Continental  exchanges  might  well  fall  to  a  point  at  which
imports,  at  any  rate  from  the  United  States,  might  become
impossible.  Yet  Mr.  Hoover  estimates  that  100,000,000
Europeans  live  on  imports,  which  they  used  to  obtain  by
exchanging  their  manufactured  exports  for  them.  In  imagin-
ing ourselves  the  straits  to  which  Europe  might  be  reduced,
we  should  not  consider  that  any  comparisons  with  former
ages  have  much  value.  The  European  population  have  never
before  been  dependent  as  they  are  now  on  the  smooth  working
of  the  great  world-wide  industrial  and  financial  machine.

What,  then,  ought  to  be  done  ?  Can  anything  much  be
done  ?  Is  there  any  sign  that  anything  will  be  done  ?  Should
we  do  well  to  follow  the  advice  given  by  Mr.  Keynes  in  his
brilliant  book,  and  do  nothing  till  we  have  got  rid  as  a  start
of  every  existing  Government  in  Europe  ?  Or  is  Sir  George
Paish  right,  and  should  Europe  borrow  $7,000,000,000— or
was  it  £7,000,000,000  ?— from  the  United  States  ?  Is  there
in  reality  any  firm  basis  at  all  yet  for  international  co-operation
outside  such  normal  commercial  and  financial  transactions  as
can  still  take  place  ?  Does  not  external  Government  assist-
ance, or  even  the  belief  that  such  assistance  is  coming,  merely
breed  idleness  and  want  of  enterprise  ?  Is  there  anything
much  worse  than  the  Government  control  which  follows
Government   credits  ?     Even   if   there   are   nations   to  lend,


INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL  CO-OPERATION    235

what,  it  may  well  be  asked,  is  the  use  of  lending  money  to
countries  when  the  people  will  not  work  and  when  their  still
remaining  resources  are  being  squandered  by  constant  issues  of
paper  currency  1  One  might  as  well  pour  it  down  a  sink.
Moreover,  the  external  debt  of  most  of  these  nations  is  already
far  greater  than  they  can  properly  bear.  Is  it  any  remedy  to
increase  it  still  further  by  borrowing  more  ?  Lastly,  is  it  not
imperative  in  face  of  such  figures  as  the  French  and  Italian
just  quoted  to  break  the  fatal  habit  of  relying  for  imports  on
credit  ?

Clearly  the  problems  before  us  are  not  so  easy  as  Sir  George
Paish  and  his  friends  would  seem  to  think.  In  fact,  the
granting  of  easy  credit  to  Europe  and  nothing  else  would  be
like  curing  a  drunkard  by  giving  him  more  to  drink.  We
may  kill  him  at  once  if  we  cut  off  his  drink  altogether,  but  if
we  go  on  giving  him  as  much  as  he  wants  he  will  certainly  die
fairly  soon  anyway.  It  is  not  by  easy  credit-taking  that  the
European  nations  can  establish  their  equilibrium,  but  by  the
very  opposite — namely,  by  the  most  painful  efforts  at  read-
justment, by  diminishing  their  consumption  of  imports  to  the
very  lowest  point,  by  buying  from  countries  who  can  afford
to  sell  to  them,  by  getting  their  imports  from  fellow- sufferers
in  distress,  food  from  Russia  and  Roumania,  manufactures
from  Germany,  and  so  on,  and  by  taking  advantage  of  the
depreciated  exchanges  to  increase  their  exports,  so  far  as  they
can,  outside  Europe.  It  is  essential  that  the  real  economic
burden  should  weigh  heavily  on  each  individual.  It  is  only  by
his  efforts  and  sacrifices  that  the  evils  we  are  all  suffering  from
can  be  remedied.  An  easy  supply  of  commodities  on  credit,
especially  if  coupled  with  increased  purchasing  power  from
increased  credit  and  currency,  will  merely  confirm  his  optimism
and  his  extravagance  and  make  the  evil  day  more  evil  when
at  last  it  comes.  Moreover,  most  of  our  troubles  cannot  be
cured  by  credit.  Except  in  so  far  as  it  provides  essential
articles  not  procurable  internally,  credit  cannot  restore  the
railway  systems  or  recover  lost  foreign  markets.  And  neither
credit  nor  anything  else  is  of  value,  if  fighting  one  another  is
to  be  the  chief  industry  of  European  nations,  or  if  workmen
will  not  work.    Moreover,  if  further  inflation  of  credit  and


236  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

currency  constantly  increases  the  public's  purchasing  power,
credit  might  do  actual  harm  in  increasing  instead  of  dimin-
ishing unnecessary  imports.  Such  credit  as  can  be  granted
must  be  for  the  purpose  of  increasing  exports  and  not  for
internal  consumption.  It  must  be  conditional  on  drastic
internal  reforms.  Most  countries  have  got  to  face  the  most
disagreeable  tasks  at  once.  They  are  heading  straight  for
bankruptcy  unless  they  balance  their  budgets,  limit  their
currency  issues,  reduce  by  taxation  the  abnormal  purchasing
power  in  the  hands  of  their  publics,  and  decrease  consumption.
The  grant  of  credit  should  not  be  made  to  enable  them  to
evade  these  disagreeable  reforms,  but,  on  the  contrary,  should
be  conditional  on  their  carrying  them  through.  Otherwise
matters  will  merely  be  made  worse.  French  credit,  for
instance,  has  suffered  severely  from  the  reluctance  of  France
to  tax  herself.  Public  sentiment  abroad  rightly  judges  that  it
is  useless  to  help  her  until  she  helps  herself.  The  extent  to
which  she  has  suffered  abroad  by  her  policy  is  measured  by
the  almost  complete  fiasco  of  her  recent  offer  of  Treasury
Bills  in  London.  Mr.  Lloyd  George  has  promised  her  a  loan,
but  its  success  depends  on  the  British  public,  and  they  will
certainly  not  subscribe  until  it  is  absolutely  clear  that  the
French  nation  mean  to  stand  up  to  their  burden.  When
they  do  this — as  no  doubt  they  will — it  will  become  far  easier
to  help  her  to  face  the  very  serious  problem  of  balancing  her
foreign  trade.

Let  us  admit,  then,  that  we  all  of  us  depend  in  the  main  on
ourselves  and  on  the  efforts  of  each  individual  citizen,  and  that
he  will  be  moved  to  the  right  course,  not  by  making  things
easy  for  him,  but  by  making  them  hard,  as  they  must  be.
Europe  must  return  to  political  sanity,  must  renounce  its
national  hatreds,  must  abandon  its  fantastic  dreams,  must  tax
itself,  live  hard,  and  rely  as  far  as  may  be  on  its  own  resources.

It  was  to  lay  stress  on  these  necessities  that  an  international
memorial  was  recently  addressed  by  representative  bankers
and  others  in  each  country  to  the  Governments  of  the  United
Kingdom,  the  United  States,  France,  Holland,  Switzerland,
Sweden,  Norway  and  Denmark.  That  memorial  pointed  out
that — •


INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL  CO-OPERATION    237

The  war  has  left  to  conqueror  and  conquered  alike  the  problem  of
finding  means  effectively  to  arrest  and  counteract  the  continuous
growth  in  the  volume  of  outstanding  money  and  of  Government
obligations,  and,  its  concomitant,  the  constant  increase  of  prices.  A
decrease  of  excessive  consumption  and  an  increase  of  production
and  taxation  are  recognized  as  the  most  hopeful — if  not  the  only —
remedies.  Unless  they  are  promptly  applied,  the  depreciation  of
money,  it  is  to  be  feared,  will  continue,  wiping  out  the  savings  of  the
past  and  leading  to  a  gradual  but  persistent  spreading  of  bankruptcy
and  anarchy  in  Europe.

There  can  be  no  social  or  economic  future  for  any  country  which
adopts  a  permanent  policy  of  meeting  its  current  expenditure  by  a
continuous  inflation  of  its  circulation  and  by  increasing  its  interest-
bearing  debts  without  a  corresponding  increase  of  its  tangible  assets.
In  practice  every  country  will  have  to  be  treated  after  careful  study
and  with  due  regard  to  its  individual  conditions  and  requirements.
No  country,  however,  is  deserving  of  credit,  nor  can  it  be  considered  a
solvent  debtor,  whose  obligations  we  may  treat  as  items  of  actual
value  in  formulating  our  plans  for  the  future,  that  will  not  or  cannot
bring  its  current  expenditure  within  the  compass  of  its  receipts  from
taxation  and  other  regular  income.  This  principle  must  be  clearly
brought  home  to  the  peoples  of  all  countries  ;  for  it  will  be  impossible
otherwise  to  arouse  them  from  a  dream  of  false  hopes  and  illusions  to
the  recognition  of  hard  facts.

The  memorialists  further  pointed  out  that  Europe  was
short  of  working  capital,  and  that —

while  muck  can  be  done  through  normal  banking  channels,  the  working
capital  needed  is  too  large  in  amount  and  is  required  too  quickly  for
such  channels  to  be  adequate.  They  are  of  opinion  therefore  that  a
more  comprehensive  scheme  is  necessary.  It  is  not  a  question  of
affording  aid  only  to  a  single  country,  or  even  a  single  group  of  countries
which  were  allied  in  the  war.  The  interests  of  the  whole  of  Europe  and
indeed  of  the  whole  world  are  at  stake.

They  stipulated,  however,  that  a  first  condition  of  granting
any  country  further  assistance  should  be  that  the  expenditure
of  the  various  European  countries  must  be  brought  within
their  taxable  capacity,  and  the  burdens  of  indebtedness  as
between  the  different  nations  brought  within  the  limits  of
endurance.  In  order  that  the  great  problem  of  saving  Europe
from  collapse  should  be  investigated,  the  memorialists  urged
that  an  international  financial  conference  of  the  countries
chiefly  concerned,  "  which  should  include  the  United  States,


238  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

the  United  Kingdom  and  the  British  Dominions,  France,
Belgium,  Italy,  Japan,  Germany,  Austria,  the  neutral  countries
of  Europe,  and  the  chief  exporting  countries  of  South  America,"
should  be  summoned  forthwith.  They  concluded  by  the  state-
ment that  all  the  information  at  their  disposal  convinced  them
that  very  critical  days  for  Europe  were  now  imminent,  and  that
no  time  must  be  lost  if  catastrophes  were  to  be  averted.

An  answer  to  this  memorial  has  already  been  given  by  the
Governments  of  the  United  States  and  of  Great  Britain,  and
as  a  result  of  the  reply  of  the  British  Government,  the  Council
of  the  League  of  Nations  has  now  determined  to  summon  an
International  Financial  Conference.  The  United  States  in  a
Treasury  memorandum  makes  it  brutally  clear  that  the
United  States  itself  must  not  be  looked  to  for  the  grant  of
further  Government  or  banking  credit  for  Europe.  Mr.  Carter
Glass,  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  lays  stress,  and  proper
stress,  on  the  necessity  of  each  European  country  depending
upon  the  independent  activity  and  resourcefulness  of  its
citizens,  and  upon  each  individual  returning  to  a  normal  life
of  industry  and  economy.  The  rectification  of  the  exchanges,
now  adverse  to  Europe,  lies,  in  his  opinion,  primarily  in  the
hands  of  the  European  Governments.  "  Relief  would  be
found,"  he  says,  "  in  disarmament,  the  resumption  of  indus-
trial life  and  activity,  the  imposition  of  adequate  taxation,
and  the  issue  of  adequate  domestic  loans.  The  American
people  should  not  be  called  upon  to  finance,  and  would  not,  in
my  opinion,  respond  to  the  demand  that  they  should  finance
the  requirements  of  Europe  in  so  far  as  they  result  from  failure
to  take  these  necessary  steps  for  the  rehabilitation  of  credit.
If  the  people  and  governments  of  Europe  live  within  their
incomes,  increase  production  as  much  as  possible,  and  limit
their  imports  to  actual  necessities,  foreign  credits  to  cover
adverse  balances  will  most  probably  be  supplied  by  private
investors,  and  the  demand  for  a  resort  to  such  impracticable
methods  as  Government  loans  and  bank  credits  would  cease."

There  is  very  much  in  the  statement  of  the  Secretary  of  the
Treasury  with  which  all  bankers  and  economists  would  agree.
Apart  from  the  inherent  evils  of  Government  credit,  none
of  the  countries  which  might  be  expected  to  grant  credit,


INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL  CO-OPERATION     239

particularly  the  United  States,  Great  Britain  and  the  British
Dominions,  can  be  regarded  as  in  a  position,  if  times  were
normal,  to  grant  large  credits,  either  banking  or  Government
credit.  Banking  credit  is  over-extended  in  all  of  them,  and
wants  reducing,  not  increasing.  With  our  own  dollar  ex-
change at  $3.35,  the  cold-blooded  advice  of  the  Currency-
Commission  to  trade  only  with  countries  which  can  pay  cash
— in  other  words,  to  turn  our  backs  on  nearly  all  Europd^ —
would  seem  sound  common-sense,  though  it  would  be  short-
sighted to  try  to  carry  it  out  literally.  In  the  United  States
there  are  a  good  many  indications  of  an  overstrained  banking
situation  too.  The  banks  are  not  in  a  position  to  extend  long
term  foreign  credit,  and  it  is  quite  clear  from  the  rates  to  be
earned  on  foreign  securities  now — Anglo-French  bonds  yield
nearly  11  per  cent — that  no  self-respecting  Government  with
regard  for  its  credit  could  raise  a  loan  there  direct  from  the
investing  public.

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  is  embarrassed  also  by  the
attitude  of  Congress,  whose  assent  to  any  further  loans  must
be  obtained.  Congress  has  not  shown  any  decided  sympathy
with  Europe  lately  or  alacrity  in  helping  her.  Congress,  too,
is  all  on  the  tack  of  economy,  of  no  more  Government  borrowing
and  so  forth,  a  very  sound  policy  for  purely  internal  reasons.
Moreover,  we  must  not  in  the  next  year  expect  any  very  decided
policy  from  the  American  executive.  President  Wilson  is  ill ;
it  is  the  year  of  a  Presidential  election  ;  and  the  Government
machinery  of  Washington  cannot  be  running  easily.  The
Secretary  of  the  Treasury  in  the  circumstances  very  naturally
fears  even  to  approach  the  task  of  assisting  Europe  by  direct
Government  advances.  His  attitude  may  perhaps  be  expressed
in  Hamlet's  words  :

The  time  is  out  of  joint :    O  cursed  spite.
That  ever  I  was  born  to  set  it  right  !

We  shall,  moreover,  not  do  the  United  States  justice  unless
we  recognize  both  that  she  has  granted  enormous  Government
credits  to  Europe  since  the  Armistice  and  also  that  she  is
suffering  from  a  good  many  of  the  evils  of  inflation  and  financial
strain  which  are  plaguing  us.     It  is  all  very  well  for  us  to  say


240  WAR  AND   NATIONAL  FINANCE

that  Americans  should  economize  and  not  speculate  and  that
if  they  acted  prudently  their  resources  would  be  ample  for
all  needs.  That  may  be  so,  but  Europe  is  certainly  on  this
subject  not  in  a  position  to  throw  stones.  On  the  other  hand,
the  memorandum  of  the  United  States  Treasury,  while  sound
in  many  respects,  takes  too  little  stock  of  the  unprecedented
and  extreme  character  of  the  crisis.  True  it  is  that  in  normal
times  a  depreciated  exchange  by  encouraging  exports  and
discouraging  imports  brings  its  own  remedy.  But  this  is
not  so  now,  when  the  import  of  raw  materials  must  first  be
made  in  order  to  make  export  possible.  If  no  such  import  is
possible,  affairs  go  from  bad  to  worse.  Again,  Europe's
unfavourable  balance  of  trade  is  so  huge  that  an  attempt  to
make  her  pay  her  way  at  once,  as  Mr.  Carter  Glass  proposes,
may  mean  so  great  a  restriction  of  imports  as  to  prevent  her
even  getting  the  food  and  primary  necessities  to  keep  her
population  alive.  Mr.  Glass  expresses  a  pious  hope  that  the
private  investor  will  do  what  the  Government  and  the  bankers
cannot.  Permanent  investment  in  foreign  loans  is  the  normal
method  by  which  one  country  provides  working  capital  for
another  and  is  the  one  this  country  followed  to  a  very  large
extent  before  the  war.  But  the  American  investor  is  not
used  to  foreign  loans  ;  speculation  is  rife  in  the  United  States
and  there  is  little  reason  to  suppose  that  he  will  subscribe  to
European  loans  on  any  terms  which  can  be  accepted  by
Europe.

In  one  important  respect,  too,  the  United  States  Treasury
appears  to  be  under  a  serious  misapprehension.  It  interprets
the  international  memorial,  to  which  reference  has  been  made,
as  contemplating  that  the  United  States  should  be  the  only
lending  Government,  and  that  all  other  European  Governments
should  be  recipients  of  credit  from  the  United  States.  This,
however,  was  by  no  means  intended.  The  object  of  the
memorial  was  to  suggest  an  international  conference,  at  which
some  plan  might  be  worked  out,  by  which,  subject  to  necessary
internal  reforms,  the  importing  countries,  desperately  in
need  of  raw  materials,  might  obtain  on  credit  those  raw
materials  from  the  exporting  countries  which  possess  them  in
abundance.     The  United  Kingdom  and  the  British  Empire  in


INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL  CO-OPERATION    241

general  would  certainly  be,  in  these  circumstances,  required
to  give  and  not  to  receive  credit,  as  would  be  also  certain
neutral  countries  in  Europe,  the  South  American  exporting
countries  and  others.

The  answer  of  the  British  Government  is  more  sympathetic.
The  British  Government  state  that,  in  their  opinion,  the  picture
which  the  memorial  presents  of  the  financial  and  economic
conditions  resulting  from  the  war,  and  of  the  grave  economic
and  social  dangers  which,  in  consequence,  confront  the  whole
world,  is  not  exaggerated.  All  the  information  in  their
possession  convinces  them,  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer
states,  of  the  urgency  of  the  problems  to  which  the  memorial
draws  attention.  But  Mr.  Chamberlain  goes  on  to  point  out
that  it  is  doubtful  whether  the  participation  of  the  United
States  Government  in  any  conference  could  be  secured,  and  it
is  obvious  that  the  attitude  of  that  Government  must  gravely
affect  the  influence  and  even  the  utility  of  such  a  conference.
He  accepts,  however,  the  view  of  the  memorialists  that  such
a  conference  might  exercise  a  powerful  influence  in  secm^ing
those  measures  of  internal  reform  in  the  countries  concerned
which  would  not  only  be  a  necessary  preliminary  to  any  further
assistance  by  foreign  Governments,  but  are  equally  necessary  as
a  preliminary  to  any  extension  of  commercial  credits.  He
concludes  as  follows  : —

The  situation  is  so  grave  that  His  Majesty's  Government  are  unwilling
to  omit  any  act  which  may  help  to  alleviate  it  by  bringing  home  to  all
concerned  in  this  country  and  elsewhere  a  true  appreciation  of  the
nature  and  character  of  the  difficulties  with  which  the  world  is  con-
fronted, and  which  may  at  the  same  time  indicate  the  only  methods  by
which  these  difficulties  can  be  overcome.  Under  these  circumstances
His  Majesty's  Government  will  be  prepared  to  appoint  representatives,
if  invited  to  do  so  by  one  of  the  Neutral  Countries  or  by  the  League  of
Nations,  on  being  satisfied  that  the  Conference  will  assume  a  really
representative  character.

But  the  hmits  within  which  the  co-operation  of  His  Majesty's
Government  is  practical  must  be  clearly  understood.  They  are
impressed  with  the  futility  of  attempts  to  solve  the  grave  problem
of  reconstruction  by  a  continuous  process  of  new  borrowing,  whether
in  the  form  of  internal  loans  to  cover  deficits  on  ciu'rent  expenditure,
or  in  the  form  of  external  loans  advanced  by  one  Government  or
another.      They  have  themselves  laid  down  as  a  cardinal  feature  of

R


242  WAR   AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

their  own  policy  the  cessation  of  new  borrowing  by  the  British
Government  and  the  estabHshment  of  an  adequate  sinking  fund
for  the  reduction  of  debt  out  of  the  revenue,  and  they  have  taken
steps  to  stop  inflation  of  currency.  His  Majesty's  Government  have
also  publicly  stated  that  they  are  not  prepared  to  grant  further
advances  to  other  Governments  which  involve  either  new  borrow-
ings by  this  coimtry  or  the  taxation  of  our  nationals  for  the  pur-
pose of  making  loans  to  the  Governments  of  other  countries,  and
His  Majesty's  Government  cannot,  in  view  of  the  immense  liabilities
which  this  country  has  already  assumed  in  the  prosecution  of  the  war,
adopt  either  of  these  alternatives.

His  Majesty's  Government  have,  however,  felt  it  necessary,  in  fulfil-
ment of  what  they  conceive  to  be  the  duty  of  the  United  Kingdom,
to  make  a  contribution  worthy  of  the  traditions  of  the  nation  to  the
reconstruction  of  Europe,  to  admit  certain  particular  exceptions  to  the
general  principle  that  loans  from  Government  to  Government  should
cease.  They  are  at  the  present  moment  engaged  in  discussions  with
the  Governments  of  Canada,  the  United  States  of  America,  France,
and  certain  other  countries,  including  some  which  did  not  take  part
in  the  war,  in  regard  to  the  provision  of  Government  credits  to  Austria
and  Poland  for  the  supply  of  foodstuffs  and  raw  materials  sufficient
to  enable  those  countries  to  avert  famine  and  restart  industrial  life.
His  Majesty's  Government  felt  compelled  publicly  to  state  in  November
last  that,  however  desperate  the  need,  they  could  not  participate  in
measures  of  relief  unless  they  were  assured  of  the  co-operation  of  the
Government  of  the  United  States  of  America  to  an  extent  which  would
make  it  certain  that  this  country  would  not  be  called  upon  to  incur
additional  expenditure  in  the  United  States  of  America.  The  move-
ments of  the  foreign  exchanges  since  November  last  emphasize  the
difficulty  with  which  His  Majesty's  Government  were  then  confronted.
In  order,  therefore,  to  avoid  any  possible  misconception,  His  Majesty's
Government  desire  to  make  it  absolutely  clear  that,  if  they  were  to
agree  to  take  part  in  a  Conference  such  as  the  Memorialists  propose,
it  would  not  be  with  the  idea  that  it  was  possible  for  the  United  King-
dom at  this  stage  to  make  any  considerable  addition  to  its  liabilities,
and  that  if  the  grant  of  credits  in  any  form  were  to  be  recommended  by
the  Conference,  His  Majesty's  Government  could  not  support  or  take
a  share  in  any  scheme  which  involved  an. addition  to  the  liabilities  of
the  United  Kingdom  for  expenditure  in  America.

A  day  or  two  after  the  reply  of  the  Chancellor  of  the  Ex-
chequer appeared  in  the  Press,  the  Council  of  the  League  of
Nations,  taking  note  of  the  views  of  the  British  Government,
determined  to  invite  the  nations  chiefly  concerned  in  the
financial  problem  to  an  International  Conference.  The  utihty
of  the  Conference  will  be  impaired  by  the  fact  that  the  United


INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL  CO-OPERATION    243

States  Government  will  not  send  representatives.  But  Europe
is  bound  to  consider  her  own  problems,  and  England,  standing
half-way  between  Europe  and  the  New  World,  has  done  well  to
co-operate.  An  International  Conference  cannot  work  a
miracle.  But  it  may  at  least  bring  all  the  nations  concerned
to  face  the  real  facts,  to  convince  the  countries  in  need  of
borrowing  how  little  there  is  to  lend,  and  the  countries  which
have  still  some  power  of  lending  how  grave  is  the  state  of  the
would-be  borrowers.  Out  of  this  may  grow  a  greater  spirit  of
co-operation  and  mutual  assistance.  It  would  be  folly,  how-
ever, to  suppose  that  any  Government  measures  can  do  very
much  or  can  replace  private  enterprise  and  self-help.  Europe
must  face  the  situation.  She  will  have  to  pass  through  a
time  of  extreme  difficulty,  and  it  is  hard  to  see  how  the  ordinary
machinery  of  credit,  which  is  temporarily  breaking  down,
is  to  be  replaced.  It  is  difficult,  indeed,  to  see  how,  without
the  most  drastic  reductions  of  imports,  with  the  consequent
lowering  of  the  standard  of  life  within  their  countries,  the  great
industrial  States  of  Europe  are  to  win  through  the  next  few
years.  Possibly  something  may  be  done  by  the  actual  control
from  this  country  and  the  United  States,  through  private
enterprise,  of  large  undertakings  in  the  destitute  countries  ;
for  instance,  it  might  be  a  profitable  business  for  large  interests
in  this  country,  in  return  for  obtaining  control,  to  provide
the  working  capital  for  steel  works,  railways,  or  other  big
undertakings  in  Central  Europe.  This  is,  indeed,  a  very
probable  development  in  the  next  year  or  two,  though  it  is
difficult  to  say  to  what  extent  it  will  be  carried  out,  particularly
owing  to  the  political  instability  of  Europe.  In  any  case  it
cannot  completely  solve  the  problem.  Whichever  way  we
turn,  and  whatever  plans  we  may  lay,  the  immediate  future
is  obscure.

Certain  measures  might  indeed  be  taken  quickly,  and  one
of  the  first  is  to  amend  the  Reparation  Settlement.  On  this
question  the  writer  is  in  general  agreement  with  Mr.  Keynes's
book.  Unless  every  plan  of  mutual  assistance  in  Europe  is  to
be  quite  unworkable,  some  definite  sum  which  Germany  must
pay  must  be  fixed  upon,  she  must  be  left  to  find  the  means  of
paying  it,  and  the  Reparation  Commission  in  its  present  form


244  WAR  AND  NATIONAL   FINANCE

must  be  abolished.  As  to  Germany's  capacity,  Dr.  Melchior,
the  head  of  the  German  Delegation  at  Versailles,  has  recently
given  his  opinion  :

Before  the  war  Germany's  imports  exceeded  her  exports  by  Mk.  J
to  1 1^  milliards  yearly,  and  this  was  adjusted  by  the  freightage  receipts
of  German  ships  and  the  revenue  from  foreign  investments.  To-day
Germany  is  denuded  of  raw  materials,  food,  and  fodder,  and  the  trade
balance  for  many  years  will  have  to  lie  even  more  largely  on  the  import
side,  but  there  are  no  longer  freightage  receipts  and  foreign  investments
to  counterbalance.  Germany  is,  therefore,  dependent  on  foreign
credit.  The  raw  material  credit  will,  it  is  hoped,  be  repaid  chiefly
by  the  export  of  the  completed  product.  The  food  credits  will,  however,
for  the  time  form  a  permanent  burden.  It  will,  doubtless,  be  demanded
by  those  providing  them  that  the  credits  for  raw  materials  and  food
shall  take  precedence  of  the  indemnity  claims,  and  to  these  payments
must  be  added  the  cost  of  the  army  of  occupation.

The  German  estimates  for  the  current  year  show  an  expenditure
of  Mk.  24*2  milliards,  as  against  a  revenue  of  Mk.  25-3  milliards,  leav-
ing a  surplus  of  Mk.  1*1  milliards.  To  the  expenses  must  be  added
Mk.  2,659,392,000  for  the  cost  of  the  army  of  occupation,  which  leaves
a  deficit  of  over  a  milliard,  irrespective  of  the  indemnity  claims.  There
remains  also  the  question  whether  the  taxes  will  bring  in  as  much  as  is
allowed  for  in  the  estimates,  for  already  the  present  taxes  threaten  to
drain  Germany's  life-blood.  In  these  circumstances  it  is  extremely
difficult  to  find  a  basis  on  which  to  calculate  Germany's  power  to  pay.

Germany's  indemnity  must,  at  present  at  any  rate,  consist
in  the  main  not  of  a  balance  of  exchange  due  to  her  as  a  result
of  a  favourable  balance  of  foreign  trade,  but  of  actual  com-
modities purchased  by  the  German  Government  and  handed
over  by  it  to  the  Allies — e,g.,  coal  to  France  and  Italy,  and  so
on.  To  pay  for  these  commodities  the  German  Government
must  increase  its  taxation,  and  the  real  test  of  the  amount  of  the
indemnity  over  and  above  capital  assets  in  the  form  of  ships,
securities,  etc.,  such  as  we  can  get  from  her  in  the  next  few
months,  is  the  absolute  upward  limit  of  Germany's  taxable
capacity.

If,  as  is  undoubtedly  the  case,  we  must  revise  the  inflated
notions  of  the  Treaty,  this  country  will  get  comparatively
little.  This  need  not  trouble  us  much,  since  we  have  in  the
Treaty  included  claims  which  are  inadmissible  under  the
Armistice  terms.     It  is  a  matter  of  honour,  therefore,  for  us  to


INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL  CO-OPERATION    245

forgo  them.  On  this  question,  as  on  the  great  European
problems  in  general,  it  is  the  duty  of  bankers  and  other  financial
authorities  to  show  the  politicians  and  the  public  the  way  to
sanity  and  international  goodwill.  The  financial  leaders  of
all  countries,  friend  and  foe  alike,  are  the  only  people  who
understand  what  is  happening  to  the  world  and  the  necessity,
if  our  civilization  is  not  to  disappear,  of  co-operation  by  all
to  save  it.  If  the  leaders  of  the  present  capitalistic  system
cannot  lead,  but  leave  the  world  to  its  own  ignorance,  one
cannot  wonder  if  the  masses,  enraged  by  the  sufferings  which
they  will  have  to  endure,  end  by  overturning  it.


XI

THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION

(September,  1920)

Though  the  country  is  gradually  settling  down  to  a  truer
conception  of  the  economic  effects  of  the  war,  it  is  doubtful
whether  the  different  sections  of  the  community  have  even  yet
grasped  the  nature  and  extent  of  the  sacrifices  they  must
necessarily  involve.  Though  it  may  be  true  to  say  with  Mr.
Lloyd  George  that  the  country  has  made  a  stupendous  effort
at  reconstruction,  and  with  Mr.  Chamberlain  that  in  our  finan-
cial problem  we  are  over  the  worst,  it  remains  also  true  that
the  peculiar  circumstances  we  are  still  subject  to — particularly
the  abnormal  demand  of  the  world  for  certain  commodities
which  we  can  supply,  such  as  coal,  textiles,  machinery  and  so
forth,  and  the  temporary  absence  of  European  competition
— enable  us  to  support  economic  conditions  both  as  regards
wages  and  interest  which  we  shall  find  a  heavy  burden  indeed
when  this  demand  becomes  less  intense  and  this  competition
revives.

At  present  our  industries  seem  able  not  only  to  stand  wages,
which  have  in  some  important  cases  risen  considerably  more
than  the  cost  of  living,  but  also  to  pay  interest  on  capital  of,
say,  8  per  cent  as  compared  with  5  per  cent  before  the  war,
mainly  because  they  have  been  able  to  charge  the  consumer,
and  particularly  the  foreign  consumer,  what  they  liked.  The
Continent  generally  had  to  have  our  coal,  and  the  profits  on
its  export  have  been  consequently  very  great.  Manchester
thought  that  China  and  India  must  take  our  cotton  goods  at
any  price.  They  have  taken  them,  though  eventually,  as  Man-
chester was  concerned  to  find,  they  preferred  even  at  a  sacrifice

246


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    247

to  go  without.  So  great  is  the  world's  demand  for  goods  that
quite  possibly  the  seller  may  for  some  time  still  be  stronger
than  the  buyer,  and  prices  may  be  maintained.  But  it  is
quite  certain  that  in  the  end  we  shall  have  to  measure  our
efforts  against  those  of  other  European  countries.  Some  of
them,  such  as  Germany,  will,  by  the  nature  of  things,  and  by
the  necessity  of  paying  reparation  in  particular,  be  compelled
to  work  very  hard,  live  very  sparingly,  and  export  to  the
greatest  possible  extent.  The  maintenance  of  our  foreign
trade  in  manufactured  articles  will  then  depend  on  the  prices
we  can  afford  to  sell  at,  and  these  will  depend  in  the  main
on  the  relative  efficiency  of  our  labour  and  management  and
the  relative  scale  of  our  wages.  Our  home  trade  will  depend
on  the  real  purchasing  power  of  the  community,  and  that  will
be  dependent  on  our  actual  production,  and  not  on  the
artificial  stimulus  of  rising  wages  and  rising  prices.

As  long  as  rising  prices  could  chase  rising  wages,  and  cur-
rency and  banking  inflation  accompany  both,  there  was  an
appearance  at  any  rate  of  great  prosperity  and  home  trade  was
very  active,  because  the  rising  wages  and  abnormal  profits
placed  temporarily  in  the  hands  of  large  classes  increased  pur-
chasing power.  But  this  was  a  process  bound  ultimately  to
lead  to  a  financial  crash,  such,  for  instance,  as  Japan  has
already  experienced  to  a  more  or  less  serious  degree.  The
Government  and  the  Bank  of  England  respectively  have
therefore  done  their  best  to  put  an  end  to  this  rake's  progress
by  limiting  the  amount  of  currency  notes  that  can  be  issued,
by  raising  the  Bank  rate  and  the  rate  of  interest  on  Treasury
Bills,  and  the  bankers  in  general  have  co-operated  by  putting
up  their  rates  on  loans,  and  restricting  to  non-speculative
purposes  the  credits  granted.  While  it  is  not  intended  to
discuss  here  these  hotly  disputed  measures,  as  to  which  wide
differences  of  opinion  exist  in  the  City,  they  have,  in  the  writer's
opinion,  undoubtedly  tended  to  prevent  further  inflation.

Rationing  of  credit  at  a  lower  rate  by  a  few  chairmen  and
managers  of  banks  is  not  an  effective  alternative  to  high
interest  rates.  These  gentlemen,  however  great  their  ability
and  experience,  cannot  have  the  omniscience  required  to
determine  which  industry  and  trade  should  have  credit  and


248  WAR   AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

which  should  not.  A  rise  in  interest  rates,  on  the  other  hand,
with  all  its  disadvantages,  automatically  directs  capital — ■
insufficient  in  amount  as  it  is  for  all  crying  needs,  into  those
channels  where  it  is  most  urgently  required  of  all.  Rationing
of  credit  by  itself  would  suffer  from  the  same  evils  as  Govern-
ment regulation  of  prices,  rents  and  so  forth.  The  housing
impasse,  due  to  the  fact  that  the  rent  of  houses  bears  no
relation  whatever  to  their  cost,  is  merely  one  instance  of  the
morass  of  difficulties  into  which  such  courses  lead  us.

If,  however,  inflation  is  now  checked,  then  prices  should
cease  to  rise,  and  the  purchasing  power  of  the  community
will  cease  to  be  artificially  stimulated.  As  the  true  effects  of
the  high  cost  of  living  and  the  huge  taxation  then  begin  really
to  have  their  effect,  the  demand  for  the  products  of  home
trade  will  diminish,  and  manufacturers  will  not  find  a  means
of  paying  higher  wages  by  charging  higher  prices  to  the  public,
for  the  public  will  not  buy.  Unemployment  is  likely  then  to
be  very  serious,  and  it  will  become  apparent  that  the  impover-
ishment of  the  country  by  the  war  cannot  possibly  have  the
paradoxical  effect  of  ensuring  a  higher  standard  of  life  for  the
people,  and  that  that  cannot  be  attained  except  by  hard  work
and  economy  on  the  part  of  the  whole  community,  making  good,
and  more  than  making  good,  the  losses  of  the  war.

We  have  still,  therefore,  to  brace  ourselves  to  further  efforts.
The  first  task  of  all  is  for  the  Government  to  put  our  finances
in  order.  We  can  never  tackle  our  social  problems  unless  we
secure  stable  prices,  and,  whatever  may  be  the  other  influences
affecting  prices,  it  is  certain  that  stability  can  never  be
reached  if  the  Government  does  not  restore  order  to  its
finances.  It  is  essential,  therefore,  that  the  Government's
revenue  should  cover  its  expenditure,  including  in  that  term
all  interest  and  sinking  fund  payments  on  the  National  Debt
and  all  necessary  repayments  of  foreign  loans,  and  that  in
addition  a  considerable  sum  should  remain  over  for  the  gradual
reduction  of  our  floating  debt.  From  the  results  of  the  recent
issue  of  5-15  year  Treasury  Bonds,  it  is  apparent  that  the
investing  public  is  in  no  mood  to  subscribe  large  sums  to  the
Government  by  way  of  loan,  even  to  reduce  the  floating  debt.
The  Government  is  necessarily  obliged,  therefore,  to  look  at


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    249

present  to  taxation  as  its  only  resource.  It  would  have  been
well  if  many  of  Mr.  Chamberlain's  critics  had  borne  these
obvious  facts  in  mind.  Mr.  Chamberlain  had  in  this  financial
year  1920-21  to  meet  a  total  estimated  net  expenditure,
exclusive  of  debt  reduction,  of  £1,184,102,000.  (This  figure,
it  appears  from  the  daily  Press,  has  already  been  increased  by
some  £20,000,000  in  Supplementary  Estimates,  and  the  political
outlook  in  Ireland  and  the  rest  of  the  world  gives  little  assurance
that  this  is  the  end.)  As  against  this  he  estimates  from  exist-
ing taxation — i.e.,  with  Excess  Profits  Duty  at  60  per  cent —
to  get  £1,418,300,000,  including  special  receipts  of  £310,756,000.
If  these  latter  receipts  are  deducted  as  being  non-recurring,  to
meet  an  expenditure  of  £1,184,102,000  there  is  revenue
amounting  to  £1,107,544,000.  Whether,  therefore,  our  taxa-
tion, can  be  reduced  next  year,  when  Mr.  Chamberlain  estimates
existing  taxation  will  give  us  £1,238,000,000,  clearly  depends
on  a  reduction  in  Government  expenditure.  If  our  foreign
and  domestic  policy  involve  us  in  further  great  expenditure,  it
may  even  be  a  question  not  of  reducing  but  of  increasing
taxation.

Now  it  is  a  common  ground  among  all  those  who  are  in  a
position  to  observe  the  effects  of  our  present  taxation,  that
it  is  already  at  a  dangerously  high  level.  Not  only  does  it
tend  to  diminish  our  production  by  reducing  to  an  unreason-
ably low  level  the  rewards  of  enterprise,  but  it  draws  away
for  Government  purposes  the  capital  so  urgently  required  by
private  industry.  Mr.  McKenna  has,  indeed,  estimated  that
the  Chancellor  is  withdrawing  for  taxation  nearly  £250,000,000
more  than  the  nation  can  possibly  stand.  In  the  light  of  this
situation  it  is  easy  to  understand  the  Government's  refusal  to
consider  the  proposals  of  the  Miners'  Federation  to  divide
between  the  miners  themselves  in  the  form  of  higher  wages,
and  the  community  in  the  form  of  a  reduced  price  of  coal,  the
abnormal  profits  which  will  accrue  on  its  export.  These
profits,  according  to  Mr.  Smillie's  estimates,  from  which  Sir
Robert  Home  does  not  seem  to  dissent,  will  amount  to
£66,000,000.  There  is  no  more  reason  why  excess  profits  on
coal  should  be  shared  between  the  workers  and  the  consumers
than  the  excess  profits  on  the  textile,  steel,  engineering  or  any


250  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

other  industry.  But  these  profits  are  abnormal  and  quite
temporary,  and  to  adopt  the  proposal  of  the  Miners'  Federation
would  mean  not  only  to  raise  wages  to  a  height  which  could
not  possibly  be  maintained  in  normal  times,  but  to  withdraw
from  the  Government  the  whole  proceeds  of  the  Excess  Profits
Duty,  estimated  to  amount  to  £220,000,000  for  the  current
year.  This  sum  would  have  to  be  found  by  other  additional
taxation.  And  the  same  body  which  proposes  thus  to  reduce
the  Government's  revenue  is  insisting  on  the  other  hand,  not
on  any  reduction  of  expenditure,  but  on  its  great  increase  by
huge  schemes  of  nationalization.

Mr.  Smillie  and  his  colleagues,  who  appear  to  hold  the  simple
faith  that  there  is  in  the  possession  of  the  richer  classes  an
inexhaustible  reservoir  of  taxable  wealth,  do  not  bother  them-
selves with  that  side  of  the  question,  and  no  doubt  will  not,
unless  they  ever  come  to  have  the  responsibility  of  government
thrown  upon  them.  But  some  of  Mr.  Chamberlain's  critics
should  know  better.  They  are  quite  right  that  existing
taxation  is  too  high  for  our  economic  prosperity.  They  are
quite  right  in  declaiming  against  the  Excess  Profits  Duty.  But
they  have  failed  in  giving  any  clear  indication  of  an  alternative
tax  they  would  prefer.  They  have  hesitated  to  advise  either
a  graduated  or  a  flat  tax  on  profits  such  as  the  new  Corporations
Tax,  which  imposes  a  flat  rate  of  5  per  cent  on  the  profits  of
all  companies,  on  a  sufficient  scale  to  replace  the  Excess
Profits  Duty.  Yet  the  Chancellor  must  have  the  money,  and
between  now  and  next  year  some  alternative  more  endurable
than  the  Excess  Profits  Duty  must  be  agreed  upon.  The  evils
of  this  latter  tax  are  too  great  for  it  to  be  maintained.  If
taxation  is  to  be  cheerfuUy  paid,  it  must  appeal  to  the  sense
of  fairness  of  the  taxpayers.  The  Excess  Profits  Duty  is  essen-
tially unfair.  It  is  based  on  a  standard — based  on  profits
earned  before  the  war — which  has  no  meaning  or  relevancy
in  to-day's  vastly  altered  circumstances,  and  it  is  consequently
resented  as  being  far  too  hard  on  some,  and  far  too  easy  on
others.  It  leads  to  the  grossest  extravagance,  to  the  main-
tenance of  high  prices,  and  to  the  strangling  of  new  enterprise.

No  doubt  any  alternative  will  have  serious  disadvantages,
for  when  taxation  has  reached  its  present  height,  any  new  tax


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    251

must  have  grave  consequences.  But  there  are  only  two  other
alternatives  before  the  country,  either  for  the  Government  to
follow  the  spendthrift  course  of  not  balancing  its  budget  and
borrowing  what  is  necessary  either  from  the  public,  or  if,  as
is  probable,  the  public  would  not  lend  it,  from  the  Bank  of
England — a  disastrous  course — or  to  reduce  expenditure.  To
be  forced  to  borrow  largely  from  the  Bank  of  England  would
merely  be  to  undo  all  the  efforts  to  check  inflation.  Borrowing
from  the  Bank  of  England  results  in  artificially  increasing
banking  credit,  and  also  currency,  without  any  real  assets
behind  the  increase.  It  thus  results  in  higher  prices,  and  so
brings  us  back  to  the  vicious  circle  of  increased  cost  of  living,
higher  wages,  greater  Government  expenditure,  need  for  more
taxation,  worse  profiteering,  and  so  forth.  Since  it  is  not
the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  but  Parliament  which  is
responsible  for  the  scale  of  our  expenditure,  his  critics  would
be  wiser,  and  fairer  too,  if  they  turned  their  attention  to  per-
suading Parliament  to  reduce  expenditure.  It  is  satisfactory
that  a  strong  movement  in  this  direction  has  now  been  in-
augurated.

Parliament  and  the  Government  have,  however,  no  easy
task  before  them  in  putting  their  house  in  order.  It  was
stated  at  the  commencement  of  this  article  that  the  com-
munity has  probably  not  yet  realized  the  nature  and  extent
of  the  sacrifices  involved.  Hitherto  the  process  has  been  the
one  comparatively  simple  and  popular  in  a  democratic  com-
munity of  increasing  taxation  on  the  well-to-do,  in  order  to
provide  uneconomically  cheap  bread,  coal,  railway  fares,  and
so  forth,  for  the  bulk  of  the  population.  But,  as  already
stated,  this  process  has  about  reached  its  limit,  and  still
heavier  taxation  would  probably  reduce  revenue,  instead  of
increasing  it.  It  is  indeed  likely  that,  when  a  time  of  depression
comes,  even  existing  taxes  will  show  a  considerable  shrinkage.
If  the  comparatively  few  rich  cannot  be  "  squeezed  "  any
more,  there  is  no  alternative  but  to  reduce  expenditure  or  to
make  the  great  mass  of  the  nation  pay  more.  We  have  had
a  recent  example  of  the  unpopularity  of  this  process  in  the  case
of  the  increase  of  railway  fares.

We  are  fortunate  in  the  fact  that  one  very  important  section


252  WAK  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

of  our  daily  Press  has  been  conducting  a  vigorous  campaign
against  a  "  wastrel  "  Government,  and  in  favour  of  the  most
stringent  Government  economy,  and  depicting  to  the  enjoy-
ment of  its  readers  the  poor  taxpayer  in  various  tragic  guises
under  his  excruciating  burden.  One  might  have  supposed
that  a  laudable  attempt  to  obey  its  daily  injunctions  and  to
make  both  ends  meet  at  least  on  the  railways  by  raising  fares
might  have  aroused  in  its  breast  some  faint  emotion  of  sym-
pathy. But  far  from  it.  The  attempt  has  been  pithily
designated  as  the  "  fare  ramp,"  and  the  public  has  been  ex-
horted in  the  very  largest  letters,  "  not  to  weaken  in  its  deter-
mination to  resist  this  greedy  grab."  But — perhaps  luckily —
such  contradictions  tend  to  cancel  one  another.  No  one
uses  a  weathercock  as  a  compass.  And  there  is  a  much
larger  problem  involved  than  the  inconsistencies  of  the  daily
Press.  The  trouble  is  that  the  path  which  our  financial  situa-
tion indicates  to  us,  and  will  indeed  compel  us  to  follow,  leads
in  exactly  the  opposite  direction  to  that  along  which  the
Labour  Party  sees  its  goal.  The  Labour  Party,  having
condemned  the  "  Capitalistic  system,"  must  find  another  to
take  its  place.  It  has  not  made  up  its  mind  to  accept  the
extremer  forms  of  socialism  such  as  communism  or  syndicalism
or  even  the  nebulous  *'  guild  socialism,"  having  a  shrewd  sus-
picion that  the  two  former  mean  a  revolution,  which,  it  knows,
would  still  further  depress  the  general  standard  of  living,  and
that  "  guild  socialism  "  depends  for  its  attractions  on  remaining
nebulous  and  in  the  realms  of  fancy.  While,  therefore,  it
does  not  feel  quite  happy  in  its  choice,  and  professes  its  deter-
mination to  resist  any  extension  of  bureaucracy,  it  has  more
or  less  plumped  for  the  only  other  known  alternative — namely,
state  socialism  or  nationalization.  There  is  no  doubt  of  the
soundness  of  the  great  body  of  Labour  and  the  sterling  common-
sense  which  it  has  often  shown  in  refusing  to  be  led  astray
by  reckless  counsellors.  But,  while  most  of  us  sympathize
with  the  main  objects  of  the  Labour  Party,  they  will  not  be
secured  by  this  dreary  creed  of  which  Mr.  Sidney  Webb  is  the
prophet.  Of  course,  nationalization  means  bureaucracy  and
nothing  else,  for  no  one  has  yet  suggested  an  answer  to  the
riddle  "  When  is  a  Government  Department  not  a  Government


THE  FINANCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION    253

Department  ?  "  Moreover,  on  a  large  scale  nationalization
would  probably  be  found  incompatible  both  with  representative
parliamentary  government  and  with  a  great  foreign  trade.
But  it  is  not  these  results — no  one  of  which  will  commend
itself  to  the  Labour  Party — on  which  we  wish  to  insist  here,
but  on  the  fact  that  nationalization  means  nothing  else  but
a  vast  extension  of  Government  activities,  and  accordingly  a
great  extension  of  Government  expenditure.  It  is  no  answer
to  say  that  the  Government  will  make  everything  pay.  All
experience  shows  that  it  will  not.  It  is  quite  certain  that  the
Government's  net  expenditure  would  be  very  largely  increased
by  the  Labour  Party's  programme.  The  greater  the  control
by  Government,  the  greater  the  expense.  The  personnel  of
the  Ministry  of  Labour  alone  has  gone  up  from  4,400  in  1914
to  17,324  in  June,  1920.

But  no  great  increase  of  Government  expenditure  is  con-
sistent with  our  financial  health.  Since  further  taxation  is
hardly  possible,  and  is  in  any  case  not  likely  to  prove  remunera-
tive, no  other  method  would  be  open  to  the  Labour  Party
than  to  follow  Lenin's  method  and  finance  the  Government
by  printing  currency  notes.  The  consequences  must  be
disastrous.  Our  currency  would  suffer  further  depreciation  ;
our  credit  would  collapse  ;  our  exchanges  fall  rapidly ;  our
imports  would  be  enormously  costly  ;  prices  would  rise  rapidly  ;
profiteering  would  become  more  rampant ;  and  every  social
evil  we  now  suffer  from  would  be  enormously  accentuated.
There  is  no  escape  from  these  consequences  even  if  the  ex-
tremists had  their  way  and  nationalization  was  inaugurated
by  wholesale  confiscation.  The  impossible  task  of  raising  great
Government  loans  might  be  avoided  thereby,  but  not  the
necessity  of  raising  further  money  to  meet  the  increased  annual
Government  charges.

The  fact  is,  that  there  is  no  alternative  to  retrenchment
and  economy.  Russia  has  been  ruined  for  the  time  being  by
extremist  financial  methods  ;  but  we  should  be  killed  dead.
No  foreign  nation  has  been  able  to  trade  with  Russia  for
years.  Imagine  our  plight  if  foreign  nations  were  to  cease
trading  with  us  for  six  months.  We  should  have  been  all
starved  before  then.     A  coUapse  of  our  credit,  currency  and


254  WAR   AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

exchanges,  which  would  be  involved  by  a  spendthrift  Govern-
ment reckless  of  our  financial  stability,  could  quickly  accom-
plish what  the  German  submarines  failed  to  do.

It  would  be  very  pleasant  if  we  could  find  our  "  new  heaven
and  new  earth  "  under  Mr.  Smillie's  ingenuous  guidance  by
the  simple  method  of  paying  still  higher  wages  and  simul-
taneously reducing  the  price  of  the  product  to  the  consumer.
Unfortunately,  we  cannot  eat  our  cake  and  have  it,  either
under  nationalized  or  private  industry,  though  we  should  in
the  two  cases  follow  the  road  to  ruin  by  different  paths,  if  we
tried.  If  the  Government  were  to  run  the  industry  of  the
country  and  found  itself  unable,  if  forced  to  pay  higher  and
higher  wages,  to  make  both  ends  meet,  it  could,  as  Govern-
ments have  very  often  done,  follow  "  the  primrose  path  "  to
ruin  by  debasing  its  currency  and  living  on  the  printing-press.
But  if  industry  is  still  in  private  hands,  the  end  is  reached  by
a  shorter  method.  A  private  company  cannot  issue  notes  to
pay  its  workmen  wages.  If  those  wages  have  reached  a  level
higher  than  is  justified  by  the  real  value  of  the  product  made,
the  company  must  close  its  doors,  for  it  would  be  working  at  a
loss.  The  true  facts  disclose  themselves  more  quickly,  and
therefore  the  remedy  is  more  quickly  found  and  the  ruin  less
widespread.  At  the  moment  the  great  profits  on  our  export
trade  help  to  disguise  the  true  facts,  but  without  any  doubt
wages  in  many  cases  are  reaching  the  point,  if  they  have  not
already  passed  it,  after  which  they  will  be  disproportionate
to  the  value  of  the  work  done.  To  raise  them  further  can
merely  increase  the  cost  of  living  and  depress  still  further
the  standard  of  the  unskilled  and  cheaper  classes  of  labour,
and,  when  the  competition  becomes  more  severe,  must  lead  to
widespread  unemployment.

The  fact  is,  that  all  classes  are  faced  with  the  necessity  of
great  sacrifices.  That  was  the  answer  to  Mr.  Chamberlain's
industrial  critics  who  complained  of  excessive  taxation.  Un-
til we  can  reduce  our  Government  expenditure  materially,
all  those  who  have  money  must  be  willing  to  pay  a  very  large
part  of  it  away  to  the  Government.  Taxation  may  have
reached  its  limit,  but  it  cannot  yet  be  reduced.  Similarly,
Labour  must  play  its  part.     Its  future  well-being  does  not


THE    FINANCIAL   AND    ECONOMIC   SITUATION  255

depend  on  its  "  squeezing  "  the  well-to-do,  for*  they  are  being
*'  squeezed  "  almost  dry  now.  Further  increases  of  wages  are,
therefore,  merely  absorbed  by  further  rises  in  prices.  Labour,
in  fact,  pays  for  them.  It  cannot  pull  itself  up  by  its  boot-
straps. The  losses  of  the  war,  which  must  hit  the  whole
community,  can  only  be  made  good  by  hard  work.  Our
crying  need  is  for  more  capital.  Though  our  revolutionaries
may  bawl  in  season  and  out  of  season  for  the  destruction  of
"  Capital,"  it  is  only  by  an  increase  of  capital  that  real  wages
can  be  increased.  Unless  we  are  to  face  a  disaster,  we  must
persuade  the  voters  that  if  they  allow  themselves  to  be  led
by  the  blind  they  will  fall  into  the  ditch.  The  more  sober
leaders  of  Labour  can  hardly  be  unaware  that  if  they  wish  to
better  the  lot  of  their  followers,  their  policy  must  be  that  one
which  offers  the  greatest  opportunity  for  increasing  the  coun-
try's capital.  Any  other  will  merely  lead  to  disappointment
and  disillusion.  Similarly  the  possessors  of  capital  should
realize  that  its  waste  on  ostentatious  and  useless  expenditure
is  a  crime  against  society.

It  is  from  this  point  of  view  that  all  schemes  of  socialism
must  be  judged.  Socialism  cannot  get  rid  of  the  need  for
capital  and  saving.  It  merely  transfers  the  duty  of  saving
from  each  individual  to  the  State.  The  State  can  save  only  by
allowing  its  citizens  to  consume  less  than  it  can  persuade  or
compel  them  to  produce.  In  theory  it  is  arguable  that  a  state
can  save  as  efficiently  as  its  citizens,  and  can  be  strong  enough
to  insist  on  and  organize  as  much  production  and  as  much
saving  as  are  achieved  by  the  motive  power  of  private  pro-
perty and  enterprise.  Those  who  know  from  experience  the
inevitable  methods  of  governments  take  a  different  view.

These  reflections  may  sadden  the  heart  of  the  ardent  social
reformer.  But  they  need  not  lead  to  pessimism.  Meanwhile
let  us  remember  that  the  greatest  social  reform  of  all  is  to
restore  our  Government  finances.  Everything  depends  on
sound  finance.  If  we  insist  on  the  immediate  achievement
of  other  and  much-needed  reforms,  at  the  expense  of  sound
finance,  we  shall  fail  to  attain  them  now  and  put  off  their
attainment  to  a  still  more  distant  future.


XII

THE  INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL

CONFERENCE  AT  BRUSSELS

AND  ITS  LESSONS*

(December,  1920)

Nothing  is  more  important  to  our  own  country  as  well  as  to
others  than  that  the  public  should  understand  the  true  charac-
ter of  the  economic  and  financial  difficulties  which  face  every
European  country,  and  the  only  means  of  remedying  them.
Such  an  understanding — it  would  seem  from  many  indications
— is  not  possessed  either  by  the  great  mass  of  the  people  or  by
the  leaders  of  the  Labour  Party,  or  indeed,  it  may  be  thought,
by  some  at  least  of  the  members  of  the  Government  itself.
This  is  not  to  be  wondered  at.  The  economic  and  financial
history  of  the  war  has  been  of  such  a  character  as  to  mislead
all  but  those  who  have  grasped  and  held  fast  to  certain  funda-
mental economic  truths.  The  great  mass  of  the  people  in
particular  are  not  to  blame.  They  have  seen  money  poured
out  like  water  for  four  or  five  years  ;  the  purses  of  the  govern-
ments seemed  for  the  purposes  of  the  war  absolutely  bottom-
less. It  was  natural  to  conclude  that  there  existed  and  still
exists  somewhere  within  the  community  an  inexhaustible
reservoir  of  wealth,  or  one  at  least  copious  enough  to  secure
a  fair  standard  of  living  for  every  class.  They  were  not  able
to  see  that  all  this  outpouring  of  our  substance  on  the  war
was  accompanied  by  a  constant  deterioration  of  our  economic
situation,  by  a  vast  loss  of  national  capital,  and  by  the  crea-
tion of  a  huge  load  of  debt,  internal  and  external^ — in  fact

*  The  address  of  the  author  on  Public  Finance  delivered  to  the
Confereuce  in  his  capacity  as  Vice-President  is  reprinted  in  the  Appendix.

256


INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL  CONFERENCE      257

that  we  were  like  a  spendthrift,  living  more  or  less  at  our  ease
by  wasting  our  capital.  And,  when  the  war  was  over,  in  many
facile  speeches,  our  politicians  promised  the  people  a  land  fit  for
heroes,  a  new  way  of  life,  a  higher  standard  of  living — promises
which,  since  they  were  not  likely  to  have  been  deliberately
misleading,  must  have  been  the  outcome  of  ignorance,  and
which  with  the  best  will  in  the  world  neither  they  nor  any
other  human  being  can  possibly  fulfil,  at  least  until  after,  not
months,  but  years  of  effort  and  sacrifice,  labour  and  saving,  the
whole  community  has  first  climbed  arduously  back  to  the  level
of  prosperity  and  wealth  which  it  had  reached  in  1914.  Forti-
fying the  conclusions  as  to  our  wealth,  to  which  the  experience
of  the  war  had  erroneously  led  them,  by  the  magnificent
pictures  of  the  good  time  coming,  in  which  Mr.  Lloyd  George's
imagination  in  particular  led  him  to  indulge,  the  great  mass  of
the  people  have  naturally  become  convinced  that  the  wealth
they  desire  in  order  to  maintain  and  improve  their  standard
of  living  is  still  somewhere  within  the  community  if  they  can
only  get  hold  of  it.

In  reporting  a  few  days  ago  the  proceedings  of  the  Inter-
national Financial  Conference  to  his  paper,  a  British  journalist
wrote  that  remarks  had  been  made  by  certain  members
which  might  be  interpreted  to  mean  that  in  their  view  not
even  the  standard  of  living  of  1914  could  now  be  maintained.
He  added  that  Labour  everywhere  would  take  this  as  a  direct
challenge  by  capitalist  interests.  Such  a  statement  is  meaning-
less. The  maintenance  or  non-maintenance  of  a  community's
standard  of  life  does  not  depend  on  governments  or  on
capitalists.  It  depends  on  that  community's  production
of  wealth,  both  for  its  own  use  and  for  exchange  against
the  wealth  of  other  nations.  If  in  England,  for  instance,
production,  for  whatever  reason — loss  of  capital  in  the
war,  less  energy  in  the  workers,  loss  of  ability  and  enterprise
in  the  directors  of  industry,  incapacity  or  unwillingness
of  the  rest  of  the  world  to  buy — is  less  in  1920  than  in
1914,  then  the  standard  of  life  in  1920  throughout  the
community  cannot  be  as  high  as  in  1914.  It  may  be  that
quite  temporarily  the  deterioration  of  that  standard  may  be
postponed  by  reducing  the  national  savings,  either  by  too


258  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

excessive  taxation  or  by  subsidies  on  bread  or  housing
or  railway  rates  or  other  devices  for  concealing  the  true
economic  situation — i.e.,  by  sacrificing  future  progress  to
present  needs.  But  it  will  not  amount  to  much  and  must  be
paid  for  later.  If  production  is  much  less  in  1920  than  in
1914,  then  the  standard  of  life  cannot  by  any  means  whatever
be  maintained.  Indeed,  over  the  greater  part  of  Europe  this
result  has  long  been  reached,  and  owing  to  the  failure  of  produc-
tion the  standard  of  life  is  now  very  far  below  that  of  1914.  It
would  be  useless  for  the  governments  of  Germany  and  Austria
and  of  many  other  countries,  too,  to  claim  that  the  pre-war
standard  of  life  had  been  maintained  ;  it  would  be  a  mockery
to  their  populations  to  promise  them  a  land  fit  for  heroes.
The  day  of  self-deception  as  to  the  true  economic  position  of
the  community,  and  as  to  the  results  of  the  war  and  of  excessive
government  expenditure  in  impoverishing  a  country,  is  long
past  with  them.  Are  we  going  to  learn  the  lesson  which  they
teach  us  or  to  follow  in  their  wake  ?  Can  we  learn  par-
ticularly from  Germany's  example  of  the  extraordinary
difficulties  which  threaten  to  overwhelm  a  highly  developed
and  thickly  populated  industrial  nation,  as  it  is  inevitably
driven  by  the  loss  of  capital,  by  excessive  government
expenditure  and  increasing  inflation,  further  and  further
down  the  road  to  financial  ruin  ?  For  in  our  country
there  are  evident  and  inevitable  signs  of  a  growing  diffi-
culty, hitherto  veiled  by  the  artificial  financial  methods  of  the
war  and  the  temporary  after-war  boom,  in  maintaining  our
general  standard  of  life.  Whether  we  are  at  all  able  to  main-
tain during  the  immediate  future  among  the  mass  of  our  popu-
lation our  existing  standard  depends  very  largely  upon  the
extent  to  which  we  observe  the  financial  and  economic  prin-
ciples clearlj^  laid  down  by  the  International  Financial  Con-
ference at  Brussels.  They  are  therefore  well  worthy  of  careful
consideration.

That  Conference  was  a  unique  assembly.  Eighty-six
representatives,  all  of  them  versed  in  financial  and  economic
affairs,  were  present  from  thirty-nine  countries,  whose  inhabit-
ants comprise  three-quarters  of  the  world's  population.  These
representatives,  while  appointed  by  their  several  governments,


INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL  CONFERENCE      269

attended  as  experts  and  not  as  spokesmen  of  official  policy.
They  expressed  their  personal  opinions  with  freedom ;  they
voted  with  entire  liberty  in  accordance  with  the  dictates  of
their  experience,  and  so  clear,  in  their  view,  after  a  fortnight's
arduous  examination  and  discussion,  was  the  nature  of  the
financial  evils  from  which  the  world  is  suffering,  and  the
remedies  therefor,  that  the  final  report  of  the  Conference  and
all  the  resolutions  of  the  various  commissions  were  adopted
unanimously.  Notwithstanding  its  comparatively  brief  dura-
tion, the  Conference  did  its  work  with  thoroughness.  It  had
before  it  detailed  statements  of  the  financial  situation  of
all  the  thirty-nine  countries  represented ;  it  listened  in  addi-
tion to  a  verbal  explanation  from  the  spokesmen  of  each
country  ;  it  debated  in  full  conference  the  four  great  questions
of  Public  Finance,  Currency  and  Exchange,  International
Trade  and  International  Credit.  Each  of  these  four  subjects
was  referred  to  a  separate  commission  to  draft  resolutions,  and
finally  these  resolutions,  together  with  a  general  report,  were
unanimously  agreed  to.

The  Conference  found  that  the  root  cause  of  all  the  world's
financial  predicaments  was  the  great  destruction  of  capital
caused  by  the  war.  This  loss  of  capital  takes  many  forms.
Its  most  striking  form  is  in  the  actual  destruction  of  towns  and
villages  and  countryside  in  the  devastated  areas  of  France  and
Belgium.  But  it  is  equally  to  be  observed  in  the  deteriora-
tion of  railway  systems,  roads  and  houses,  in  the  enforced  sale
of  foreign  securities  to  countries  outside  Europe,  in  the  huge
external  debts  of  the  belligerent  countries,  and,  particularly
in  Central  Europe,  in  the  loss  of  working  capital  in  the  form  of
stocks  of  raw  materials.  England,  it  has  been  sometimes
estimated,  had  in  1918  lost  one-sixth  of  her  pre-war  capital ;
the  German  Government  estimated  officially  at  Spa  that  the
national  capital  of  Germany  had  been  reduced  by  more  than
half.

So  intense  during  the  war  were  the  demands  of  the  govern-
ments on  the  resources  of  their  nations  that  they  could  not  be
met  solely  out  of  the  annual  product  of  the  people,  but  had
partly  to  be  met  by  dissipating  their  capital.  So  great  were
they,  too,  that  they  could  not  be  paid  for  out  of  taxation


260  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

expressly  imposed  or  out  of  loans  from  the  people's  real  savings.
All  governments  resorted,  therefore,  to  creating  the  purchas-
ing power  they  needed  by  expanding  according  to  their
necessities  either  paper  currency  or  banking  credit,  without
any  corresponding  increase  in  real  wealth.  In  other  words,
by  continuously  expanding  currency  and  credit  without  expand-
ing wealth  they  constantly  debased  their  standard  of  value,
until  £1  now  is  worth  less  than  10s.  in  1914  ;  one  mark  is  worth
under  Id.  in  Germany  as  against  Is. ;  one  krone  in  Austria
is  worth,  say,  about  one-fifth  of  a  penny  instead  of  lOd. ;  while
in  Russia  roubles  which  before  the  war  would  have  been  worth,
say,  £100,000,  can  now  be  bought  as  a  speculation  for  less  than
£20.  Such  inflation  is  merely  a  method  of  concealed  taxation,
by  which  a  government  takes  from  its  citizens  their  wealth,
not  by  actually  forcing  them  to  pay  it  over  to  the  tax-gatherer,
but  by  reducing  its  value.  The  more  impoverished  a  country
the  greater  the  compulsion  upon  it  to  resort  to  these  methods,
the  greater  the  extent  to  which  it  trenches  upon  its  capital,  and
the  further  it  is  driven  down  this  road  to  ruin .  In  the  advanced
stages  of  the  disease,  upon  which  Austria  and  Poland,  for  in-
stance, and  it  may  be  said  Germany  too,  has  entered,  to  do
anything  to  arrest  it  becomes  a  matter  of  extreme  difficulty.

So  far-reaching  and  corrupting  are  the  effects  of  inflation
that  it  is  worth  while  to  define  them  with  some  care,  especially
since  many  of  the  evils  which  flow  from  it  are  usually  attributed
popularly  to  quite  other  causes,  and  in  consequence  entirely
futile  remedies  are  proposed.

In  the  first  place,  inflation  in  this  and  other  countries  is  the
root  cause  of  profiteering.  Indeed,  inflation  and  profiteering
are  Siamese  twins.  You  cannot  cure  profiteering  without
curing  inflation,  and  if  you  cure  inflation  you  will  cure  profit-
eering. As  long  as  prices  continue  to  rise,  whoever  makes  or
buys  or  holds  goods  at  one  price  and  can  in  a  short  time  sell
them  at  a  higher  price  must  "  profiteer."  Profiteering  is  not  an
inherent  vice  of  the  capitalist  system.  In  normal  times  and
with  stable  prices,  and  when  the  losses  which  capital  suffers
are  counted  in  with  the  profits,  it  is  more  than  doubtful  whether
the  profits  of  all  trade  and  industry  amount  to  more  than  a
very  small  percentage  on   the   capital   employed.    Certainly


INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL  CONFERENCE      261

the  idea  that  by  the  distribution  of  these  profits  you  can
largely  increase  wages  is  baseless.  By  causing  profiteering,
inflation  is,  therefore,  responsible  for  the  disproportionate
importance  attached  by  Labour  to  the  profits  of  Capital.  There
is  nothing,  indeed,  which  has  done  so  much  in  all  countries  in  the
last  five  years  as  profiteering  to  poison  the  relations  between
Capital  and  Labour,  and  for  this  reason  alone  it  is  extremely
important  to  check  inflation.  Failing  this,  all  other  plans
proposed  by  the  Government  or  the  Labour  Party  for  reducing
the  cost  of  living  are  futile.

In  the  second  place,  what  the  profiteer,  whether  capitalist  or
wage-earner,  gains  is  lost  by  all  those  living  on  fixed  incomes  or
salaries  or  on  wages  which  have  not  increased  with  the  increased
cost  of  living.  The  extent  of  profiteering  is  the  measure  of
what  these  classes  have  lost.  Indeed  the  "  new  poor  "  are
among  the  greatest  sufferers  through  the  war,  and  the  greatest
of  all  where  inflation  has  been  most  rampant.  If  our  inflation
had  equalled  the  Austrian,  a  widow  or  schoolmaster  or  clergy-
man, having  £1,000  capital  saved  up  and  deposited  in  a  bank
in  1914,  would  now  find  that  £1,000  reduced  in  value  by  the
depreciation  of  currency  to  £20.  In  this  country  the  average
income  of  the  country  clergymen  of  the  Church  of  England
is  probably  now  far  below  that  of  the  skilled  artisans  and
miners.

In  the  third  place,  inflation,  by  necessitating  a  constant
readjustment  between  wages  and  prices — the  vicious  spiral,  as
it  is  now  known  throughout  Europe,  in  which  wages  and  prices
endlessly  chase  one  another — causes  constant  strikes  and
Labour  unrest,  very  seriously  impeding  production.  When
wages  increase  faster  than  production  the  real  cost  of  living
increases  to  all  those  who  are  not  strong  enough  to  insist  upon
further  increases  of  wages  or  salaries,  or  who  cannot  increase
their  incomes.  In  other  words,  the  strong  unions  and  the
proflteers  unwittingly  trample  down  the  weak,  and  bring  them
either  a  lowered  standard  of  life  or  unemployment.

In  the  fourth  place,  inflation,  by  depreciating  the  currency,
depreciates  the  exchanges.  Thus  all  imports  cost  more,  and
again,  particularly  in  a  country  like  ours,  which  depends  so
largely  on  imports,  prices  are  driven  up.


262  WAE   AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

Fifthly,  inflation,  by  increasing  prices,  constantly  increases
government  expenditure.  While  revenue  will  ultimately
increase  in  proportion  to  prices,  expenditure  tends  to  increase
even  more  quickly  and  to  cause  a  larger  deficit,  thus  tending
to  still  more  inflation  and  a  further  increase  in  the  cost  of
living.  It  is  only  quite  recently,  for  instance,  that  railway  and
postage  rates  have  been  increased  in  any  proportion  to  increased
costs.

Sixthly,  the  constant  changes  in  prices  and  in  the  exchanges
restrict  legitimate  trade  and  industry  and  tend  to  replace  them
by  speculation.  This  is  another  serious  handicap  to  pro-
duction.

Seventhly,  in  its  extreme  form,  as  seen  in  part  of  Europe,
particularly  Russia,  inflation  ultimately  disintegrates  society
and  leads  to  chaos  and  anarchy.  The  simple  but  brilliant
Bolshevik  plan  of  ruining  Western  civilization  by  forging
unlimited  quantities  of  each  country's  currency  would  have
been  wonderfully  effective  if  it  could  have  been  put  into  opera-
tion.

For  these  reasons  the  Brussels  Conference  recognized  that
the  first  reform  in  Europe,  on  which  all  others  depended,  and
indeed  the  only  means  of  avoiding  ruin,  was  to  check  inflation.
No  other  task  before  the  governments  of  Europe  was  compar-
able in  importance  and  urgency.  Underneath  all  the  machinery
of  finance  lay  the  fundamental  necessity  of  increasing  produc-
tion and  encouraging  saving.  Economically  inflation  impeded
production,  and  discouraged  saving ;  politically  and  socially
it  was  responsible  for  very  many  of  the  common  troubles  of
Europe.  It  is  true  that  rapid  deflation,  as  the  Conference
recognized,  by  bringing  further  instability  and  great  depression,
might  be  as  bad  as  inflation.  What  was  imperatively  required
was  stability,  bringing  with  it  confidence,  so  that  the  urgent
task  of  restoring  lost  capital  might  be  facilitated.  How  then
could  stability  be  achieved  ?  The  Conference  recognized  that,
limited  as  it  was  by  its  reference  to  the  sphere  of  finance,  it
**  could  only  deal  with  a  part  of  the  problem  which  faced  the
governments  and  peoples  of  the  world."

Finance  is,  after  all,  only  a  reflection  of  commercial  and  economic
life — a  part  only,  though  an  essential  part,  of  its  mechanism.      The


INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL  CONFERENCE      263

wealth  of  the  world  consists  of  the  products  of  man's  work,  and  the
sura  total  of  human  prosperity  can  be  increased  only  by  an  increase
of  production.  All  that  any  official  or  organized  action  can  do  is  to
create  conditions  which  are  favourable  to  production,  and  of  those  the
most  important  fall  outside  the  sphere  of  finance.

First  and  foremost  the  world  needs  peace.  The  Conference  affirms
most  emphatically  that  the  first  condition  for  the  world's  recovery  is
the  restoration  of  real  peace,  the  conclusion  of  the  wars  which  are  still
being  waged  and  the  assured  maintenance  of  peace  for  the  future.

"  If  the  first  condition,"  as  the  report  of  the  Conference
proceeds,  "  is  peace  between  the  countries  of  the  world,  the
next  is  peace  within  each  of  them  and  the  establishment  of
conditions  which  will  allay  the  social  unrest  that  is  at  present
impeding  and  reducing  production,  and  which  will  restore
social  content,  and  with  it  the  will  and  the  desire  to  work."
Subject  to  these  indispensable  conditions  the  Conference
advocated  certain  financial  measures,  for  a  full  understanding
of  which  its  report  and  the  resolutions  of  the  different  commis-
sions should  be  studied  with  care.

First  and  foremost,  the  governments,  municipalities  and  other
local  authorities  must  live  within  their  means.

In  the  second  place,  "  banks,  and  particularly  banks  of  issue,
should  be  freed  from  political  pressure  and  should  be  conducted
solely  on  the  lines  of  prudent  finance."

Thirdly,  the  creation  of  additional  credit  should  cease,  and
governments  and  municipalities  should  not  increase  their
floating  debts,  but  should  begin  to  repay  or  fund  them  by
degrees.  The  Conference  laid  stress  on  the  danger  of  large
floating  debts  in  themselves  leading  to  further  inflation.

Fourthly,  the  "natural  regulator  of  credit  is  the  rate  of  no
interest,  imposed  by  the  central  banks  of  issue.  There  is  no
reason  why  governments  should  be  less  subject  than  the  rest
of  the  community  to  whatever  rate  of  interest  is  necessary  for
the  proper  restriction  of  credit.  In  those  countries  where  the
financial  machinery  is  wholly  out  of  gear,  and  the  rate  of  interest
ineffective,  credit  must  be  restricted  to  real  economic  needs."

Fifthly,  commerce  should  as  soon  as  possible  be  freed  from
all  government  control  and  impediments  to  international
trade  removed.

Sixthly,  economy  in  expenditure  should  be  exercised  by


264  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

the  whole  population.  "  Such  private  action  is  the  indis-
pensable basis  for  the  fiscal  measures  required  to  restore  public
finances."

Seventhly,  on  the  question  of  currency,  the  Conference
regarded  the  earliest  return  by  all  countries  which  have  lapsed
therefrom  to  the  gold  standard  as  highly  desirable,  but  con-
sidered it  "  useless  to  attempt  to  fix  the  ratio  of  existing  fiduci-
ary currencies  to  their  nominal  gold  value,"  or  to  attempt  any
sudden  deflation  of  currency  or  to  stabilise  the  value  of  gold.
It  rejected  any  notion  of  an  International  Currency  or  an  Inter-
national Unit  of  Account,  and  regarded  any  artificial  control
of  the  foreign  exchanges  as  useless  and  mischievous.

Eighthly,  as  regards  international  credits  and  loans,  it
did  "  not  believe  that  apart  from  particular  decisions  dictated
by  national  interests  or  by  considerations  of  humanity,  credits
should  be  accorded  directly  by  governments."  It  thus  sum-
marily rejected  all  notions  of  vast  international  loans,  of  issues
of  League  of  Nations  bonds,  and  so  forth,  which  are  wholly
impracticable.  It  did,  however,  tentatively  suggest  for
further  consideration  certain  schemes  for  facilitating  exports
to  impoverished  countries  either  by  special  guarantees  or
some  method  of  insurance.  The  Conference  recommended
that  the  League  of  Nations  should  arrange  for  further  expert
inquiry  to  be  made  as  soon  as  possible  into  these  schemes.
Useful,  however,  as  they  may  prove  to  be,  it  is  certain  that  the
part  they  can  ever  play  is  insignificant  compared  to  the
importance  of  encouraging  credits  through  ordinary  banking
and  financial  channels,  by  a  return  to  sound  finance  and
freedom  of  trade  and  industry,  in  all  countries  requiring  assist-
ance.

It  is  not  intended  to  discuss  in  further  detail  the  more  tech-
nical recommendations  of  the  Conference.  With  the  adoption
of  sound  principles  of  finance,  with  general  peace,  internal
and  external,  it  will  be  easy  to  carry  them  into  effect :  without
them  it  will  be  impossible.  It  is  better,  therefore,  to  confine
our  attention  to  more  fundamental  questions.  The  true  mean-
ing of  the  Conference's  recommendations  can  be  summarized
in  one  sentence.  Stability  can  be  attained  in  one  way  and  one
way  only — namely,  by  governments   and  citizens   recogniz-


INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL  CONFERENCE      266

ing  their  poverty  and  learning  to  live  within  their  means.
Simple  as  this  platitude  sounds,  it  is  a  task  now  fulfilled  by
hardly  any  European  country,  and  is  indeed,  so  reduced
have  their  means  become,  temporarily  at  any  rate,  beyond
the  powers  of  several  of  them.  Even  in  our  own  country
its  adoption  as  our  common  aim  would  involve  a  revolution
in  the  political  and  economic  ideas  of  the  majority  of  our
people,  and  certainly  in  the  programmes  of  the  political  par-
ties. The  efficacy  of  all  the  other  recommendations,  indeed,
depends  upon  sound  public  finance.  It  is  on  this  point  above
all  others  that  the  Conference  insisted  in  its  Report  and  resolu-
tions.   Its  main  conclusions  may  be  summarized  as  follows  :

1.  Industry  is  suffering  from  a  scarcity  of  capital.  The
more  capital  used  by  governments,  the  less  is  available  for
industry.    Which  is  likely  to  use  it  most  productively  ?

2.  There  is  a  "  close  connection  between  Budget  deficits
and  the  cost  of  living  which  is  far  from  being  grasped."
"Nearly  every  government  is  being  pressed  to  incur  fresh
expenditure,  largely  on  palliatives,  which  aggravate  the
evils  against  which  they  are  directed."

3.  Budget  deficits  mean  :

(a)  Further  inflation  of  credit  and  currency.

(b)  Further  depreciation  in  the  domestic  currency  and

the  exchange.

(c)  A  further  rise  in  the  cost  of  living.

"The  country  which  accepts  the  policy  of  Budget  deficits
is  treading  the  slippery  path  which  leads  to  general  ruin ;  to
escape  from  that  path  no  sacrifice  is  too  great."

4.  "It  is  therefore  imperative  that  every  government
should,  as  the  first  social  and  financial  reform,  on  which  all
others  depend  :

(a)  Restrict  its  ordinary  recurrent  expenditure,  including
the  service  of  the  debt,  to  such  an  amount  as  can
be  covered  by  its  ordinary  revenue.

(h)  Rigidly  reduce  all  expenditure  on  armaments,  in  so
far  as  such  reduction  is  compatible  with  the  pre-
servation of  national  security.

(c)  Abandon  all  unproductive  extraordinary  expendi-
ture.


266  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

(d)  Restrict  even  productive  extraordinary  expenditure
to  the  lowest  possible  amount."

5.  Reduction  in  armaments  is  therefore  essential.

6.  All    uneconomical    and    artificial    measures    including :
(a)  subsidies  on  bread,  coal,  and  other  materials,  as  well

as  demoralizing  unemployment  doles ;
(6)  the  maintenance  of  railway  fares,  postal  rates,  and
other  government    charges  on  a  basis  insufficient
to  cover  all  the  costs  of  the  service  given  should  be
abandoned  as  soon  as  possible.

7.  Where  expenditure  cannot  be  cut  down  within  the  limits
of  existing  revenue,  further  taxation  must  be  imposed.

What,  then,  are  the  lessons  which  we,  in  this  country,  can
draw  from  the  Conference  ?  First  of  all,  it  is  safe  to  say  that
owing  to  our  splendid  financial  traditions  of  many  years,  and  to
the  sound  policy  which  Mr.  Chamberlain  and  the  Treasury  have
pursued  in  the  past  two  years.  Great  Britain  has  hitherto
come  far  nearer  than  any  other  country  to  meet  in  Public
Finance  the  ideals  laid  down  by  the  Conference.  The  simple
statement  made  by  Lord  Chalmers  of  the  huge  taxation  which
we  had  imposed,  and  the  commencement  we  had  already
made  in  the  repayment  of  debt,  made  a  great  impression  on  the
Conference.

Nevertheless,  fortunate  as  is  our  position  in  comparison
with  our  continental  neighbours,  we  have  not,  in  the  writer's
opinion,  yet  passed  the  crest  of  the  hill  or  by  any  means  de-
finitely overcome  all  danger  of  further  inflation.  If,  as  seems
unfortunately  likely,  we  must  face  in  the  next  year  or  two  a
period  of  severe  trade  depression,  the  government  revenue,  and
particularly  the  Excess  Profits  Duty,  is  likely  to  show  a  decided
falling- off.  Revenue  will  cease  to  be  elastic,  and  additional
taxation,  instead  of  increasing  revenue,  may  diminish  it  by
further  diminishing  the  already  insufficient  stores  of  capital
for  industry,  and  by  hampering  production .  On  the  other  hand ,
government  expenditure  seems  likely  actually  to  increase,
unless  Parliament  insists  on  its  curtailment.  The  genius  of
Mr.  Lloyd  George's  government  does  not  exactly  lie  in  economy,
and  official  government  apologists  are  already  urging  that
expenditure  cannot  be  reduced.     On  the  other  hand,  schemes


INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL  CONFERENCE      267

of  further  public  expenditure  on  unemployment  insurance,
relief  works,  and  so  forth,  are  foreshadowed.  They  may  very
likely  turn  out  to  be  "  palliatives  which  aggravate  the  evils
against  which  they  are  directed."  Whatever  their  merits,  they
involve  an  increase  instead  of  a  diminution  in  expenditure.  In
some  form  or  other,  therefore,  the  community  in  general  must
bear  the  extra  burden  imposed.  If  pay  is  given  to  the  unem-
ployed, then  it  must  go  to  reduce  the  profits  or  the  interest  or
the  salaries  or  the  wages  of  those  who  are  working  or  have
capital  invested.  If  great  highways  are  built  out  of  London
by  the  public  authorities,  they  cannot  be  immediately  remune-
rative. Yet  the  wages  and  materials  must  be  immediately
paid  for,  and  the  extra  burden  must  be  met  by  the  taxpayers
and  ratepayers.  And  their  burden,  it  may  be  said  in  general,
is,  in  one  way  or  another,  either  by  causing  increased  cost  of
living  or  reduced  employment,  shared  ultimately  by  the
general  community.  Whatever  you  do,  you  cannot  make
something  out  of  nothing.  It  is  imperative,  therefore,  that
every  item  of  government  expenditure  should  be  most  closely
scrutinized.  Above  all,  and  by  some  means  or  other,  the
Government  must  continue  at  least  to  balance  its  Budget  and
to  redeem  gradually  the  floating  debt.

This  brings  us  to  another  and  extremely  important  point.
It  is  not  only  government  expenditure  which  causes  inflation.
Inflation  results  also  from  an  increase  in  banking  credit  unac-
companied by  a  proportionate  increase  in  real  wealth.  In
1919  banking  credit  expanded  enormously,  and  the  increase
in  the  liabilities  of  the  banks  of  the  United  Kingdom  amounted
to  nearly  £450,000,000,  an  increase  larger  than  in  any  war  year.
There  are  indications  that  the  increase  still  continues.  This
increased  purchasing  power  granted  by  the  banks  is  due  to  the
demands  of  industry,  and  these  demands  have  been  again
due  partly  to  enterprise  which  is  legitimate,  partly  to  enter-
prise which  has  been  misguided,  since  the  products  made  can-
not be  sold,  and  partly  to  additional  requirements  of  industry
due  to  increased  wages  and  costs.  Anything  which  increases
costs  tends  to  increase  inflation.  For  instance,  the  recent
coal  strike  will  tend,  temporarily  at  any  rate,  to  increase  the
cost  of  living.    It  will  reduce  production,  and  so  increase


268  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

scarcity  and  send  up  prices  ;  it  will  reduce  saving,  and  so
capital,  and  tend  to  increase  the  rate  of  interest,  which  again
will  tend  to  increase  prices  ;  it  will  diminish  our  exports,  and
thus  tend  to  prevent  any  recovery  in  our  exchanges  ;  in  conse-
quence, all  our  imports  will  cost  us  more  than  they  otherwise
would  have,  and  so  prices  will  be  increased.  This  increase  in
prices  in  itself  will  lead  to  more  currency  being  required,  and
to  all  companies  needing  more  credit  and  more  capital  to  carry
their  working  stock  and  to  continue  their  operations .  Since  the
Government  have  definitely  restricted  the  amount  of  currency
which  can  be  issued,  the  banks  cannot,  as  during  the  war,
continuously  and  without  fear  increase  their  credit  facilities.
Indeed,  so  great  have  been  already  the  demands  on  them,  that
they  have  already  had  to  restrict  them.  If,  therefore,  owing  to
increased  prices  further  credit  must  be  had  and  cannot  be
obtained,  the  companies  concerned  must  restrict  or  abandon
their  operations,  and  so  unemployment  will  grow.  Moreover,
any  increase  in  the  cost  of  living  leads  to  demands  for  higher
wages  all  round ;    and  so  the  vicious  spiral  will  mount.

But  it  does  not  need  a  strike  to  cause  further  inflation.  The
same  results  tend  to  occur  whenever  wages  have  reached  an
uneconomically  high  level — i.e.,  when  they  are  disproportion-
ate to  the  value  of  the  output,  that  value  depending,  of  course,
on  the  effective  demand  in  this  and  other  countries  for  the
product  made.  In  normal  times,  and  under  private  enter-
prise, the  necessary  adjustment  must  be  reached  by  the  closing
of  the  factory  concerned  or  the  restriction  of  its  output,  or,  in  the
case  of  agricultural  products,  the  restriction  of  acreage,  since
the  product  will  not  be  bought  by  the  consumers,  and  that  is
what  is  already  the  case  in  many  trades.  But  that  does  not  so
easily  happen  in  the  case  of  a  necessity  and  a  monopoly  like
coal.  Clearly  the  mine-owners  and  the  miners  can  continue
for  a  long  time  to  secure  high  profits  and  wages  by  increas-
ing the  cost  of  coal  before  the  consumption  of  it  will  very
largely  decrease.  But  let  us  be  under  no  illusion  as  to  the
results.  Unless  the  production  of  coal  increases,  the  higher
profits  and  wages  of  the  coal  industry  are  secured  by  depressing
the  standard  of  the  rest  of  the  community,  and,  in  all  probability
in  particular  the  standard  of  those  classes  least  able  to  defend


INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL  CONFERENCE      269

themselves,  such  as  the  unskilled  and  unorganized  workers.
One  can  liken  the  production  of  the  country  available  for  dis-
tribution in  wages,  interest,  and  profits  to  a  blanket  with  which
several  people  are  trying  to  cover  themselves,  but  which  is
too  small.  If  one  party  is  strong  enough  or  selfish  enough  to
manage  to  cover  himself,  some  one  else  must  be  left  out  in  the
cold.

Most  trades  are,  of  course,  not  monopolies  like  the  coal
trade,  and  the  most  serious  problem  before  the  country  is
to  arrive  in  industry  in  general  at  an  equilibrium  between  the
cost  of  production,  of  which  wages  will  be  the  largest  fraction,
and  the  value  of  the  article  produced,  or,  in  other  words,  on
our  power  to  sell  it.  The  textile  industry  is  depressed  because
the  Far  East  finds  our  prices  too  high.  Moreover,  large  con-
tracts in  railway  and  other  materials  are  going  to  our  European
competitors,  because  their  prices  are  lower  than  ours.  It  may
be  that  we  cannot  retain  our  markets  and  avoid  very  great
unemployment  without  an  adjustment  in  wages ;  it  may  be
that  we  can  hold  the  position  by  increasing  our  efficiency ;  it
may  be  that  we  can  make  the  necessary  readjustment  by  great
emigration.  One  thing  is  certain.  By  one  means  or  another
an  equilibrium  must  be  reached.  Merely  to  increase  wages
must  merely  increase  inflation,  with  its  endless  evil  con-
sequences, and  ultimately  lead  to  the  most  widespread  un-
employment and  distress.

It  is  useless  to  think  we  can  live  in  a  water-tight  compart-
ment of  our  own.  We  depend  on  selling  our  exports.  If  we
are  cut  out  by  our  competitors,  we  must  either  have  unem-
ployment or  reduce  our  costs.  The  tendency  is  clearly  in  the
direction  of  reduced  world  prices,  and  if  prices  come  down
profits  will  certainly  come  down,  and  wages  may  have  to
follow  them.

The  trades  unions  and  the  Labour  Party  insist,  and  rightly
insist,  on  the  vital  importance  of  maintaining  the  standard  of
living.  However  sound  is  our  financial  and  economic  policy,
the  war  has  made  that  difiicult  enough  in  any  case.  The  blan-
ket is  not  large  enough.  But  is  it  not  irony  that  Labour,
sincerely  desirous  above  all  things  of  securing  this  end,  should
by  its  action  and  policy  be  making  it  wholly  unattainable  ?


270  WAR  AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

Each  strike,  great  and  small,  weakens  pro  tanto  the  community's
power  to  maintain  its  standard.  But,  apart  from  these  shocks,
the  main  policy  of  the  Labour  Party  appears  to  be  the  exten-
sion of  government  activities  in  every  direction,  with  the  certain
consequent  extensions  of  government  expenditure.  It  is
impossible  to  disguise  from  oneself  that  such  a  policy  is  in
direct  contradiction  with  the  principles  of  the  Brussels  Con-
ference. If  the  Conference  is  right,  it  must  lead  to  further  in-
flation, a  further  rise  in  the  cost  of  living,  increased  taxation,
and  all  the  evils  indicated  above.  Yet  what  does  Mr.  J.  H.
Thomas  say,  speaking  on  behalf  of  the  Labour  movement  in
his  recent  book.  When  Labour  Rules.  '*  Nationalization,"  says
Mr.  Thomas,  who  seems  to  regard  it  as  the  panacea  of  all
economic  ills,  "  will  decrease  the  cost  of  the  commodity  to
every  one,  it  will  leave  allowance  for  a  system  of  wages  in
advance  of  those  appertaining  to-day,  and  even  then  a  margin
which  will  go  into  the  national  exchequer  and  thus  relieve
taxation."  These  statements  are  entirely  unsupported  by  any
evidence  or  even  by  any  arguments.  It  is  important  they
should  be,  since,  if  the  Brussels  Conference  is  right,  they  are
in  the  circumstances  of  the  moment  the  exact  opposite  to  the
truth.

The  spokesmen  of  Labour  sometimes  talk  as  if  the  standard
of  life  were  something  independent  of  the  joint  efforts  of  the
whole  community  and,  indeed,  of  the  whole  world,  something
possessed  by  the  Government,  or  the  income-tax  payers,  which
Labour  could  secure  and  keep,  if  it  was  only  firm  and  deter-
mined enough.  But,  of  course,  that  is  not  so.  It  depends  on
the  national  production  of  wealth,  and  unless  an  increase  in
government  functions  means  an  increase  in  national  produc-
tion it  would  become  more  difficult,  instead  of  less,  to  maintain
wages.  The  standard  of  1914  can  only  be  maintained  by  the
production  of  1914.  And,  unfortunately,  production  does  not
depend  only  on  the  efforts  of  Labour,  or  on  those  of  Capital,  or
on  anything  we  can  do  in  this  country.  It  depends  largely  on
the  prosperity  of  our  neighbours,  on  their  power  to  buy  from
us  by  selling  to  us  in  turn  and  also  on  their  willingness  to  buy
from  us  at  the  high  prices  necessitated  by  the  high  cost  of
labour  and  capital  here.    It  is  curious,  indeed,  to  note  that


INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL  CONFERENCE      271

some  of  the  countries  least  directly  concerned  in  the  war
find  themselves  in  the  greatest  difficulties.  Neutrals  like
Switzerland,  with  a  favourable  exchange,  are  in  great  straits
owing  to  their  inability  to  find  purchasers  for  their  goods,  since
their  neighbours  cannot  buy.  Nothing  shows  more  strikingly
the  interdependence  of  the  whole  world.  We  cannot  live  on  our
neighbours'  poverty.  Until  the  world  regains  equilibrium,  and
until  our  neighbours  recover,  low  production,  unemployment,
and  hard  times  may  be  enforced  on  us.  Whatever  we  do,  we
cannot  escape  the  consequences  by  unemployment  bonuses  and
relief  works.  We  may  distribute  more  widely  the  burden,  but
that  is  all.  And  unless  we  manage  at  all  costs  to  hold  to  the
path  laid  down  by  the  Brussels  Conference,  our  troubles  will
grow  still  worse.

Is  it  impossible  for  all  parties,  Coalition,  Liberal  and  Labour,
to  agree  upon  the  soundness  of  the  principles  approved  at
Brussels  ?  Will  not  the  Labour  Party  at  any  rate  make  a
serious  and  impartial  study  of  them  ?  Will  not  they  seriously
consider  whether  the  interests  of  their  followers  are  not  best
served  by  restricting  government  expenditure,  checking  infla-
tion, achieving  stability  of  prices,  improving  the  exchanges,  and
by,  if  not  reducing,  at  least  preventing  any  further  rise  in  the
cost  of  living  ?  Must  they  really  hold  to  the  faith  that  their
salvation  lies  here  and  now  in  the  great  extension  of  govern-
ment activities  and  expenditure  ?  For  at  any  rate,  until  we
have  recovered  somewhat  from  the  war,  that  way  no  salvation
lies.

To  the  writer  they  seem  sometimes  to  ignore  the  fact  that
the  community  is  an  organic  whole,  of  which  by  far  the  largest
part  consists,  of  course,  of  the  manual  workers  themselves  ;
that,  if  they  increase  government  expenditure  and  necessitate
additional  taxation,  they  are  taking  money  from  themselves,
since,  in  one  form  or  another,  the  sacrifices  which  such  taxa-
tion involves  are  distributed  over  the  whole  community  ;  that,
if  they  strike,  they  strike  against  themselves  ;  that,  if  they
reduce  production,  they  reduce  their  own  standard  of  living  ;
that  they  cannot,  as  their  extremists  desire,  render  industry
unprofitable  without  first  ruining  themselves  ;  that  there  is  no
hidden  reservoir  of  wealth  except  in  their  own  energy,  skill  and


272  WAR   AND  NATIONAL  FINANCE

ability,  and  that  of  the  rest  of  the  community  ;  and  that  theii
salvation  and  the  maintenance  of  their  standard  of  life  depends
on  confidence,  stability  and  sound  finance.  If  it  were  only  pos-
sible for  the  political  parties  to  agree  on  these  principles,  as  to
which  no  representative  at  the  Brussels  Conference,  nor  any  of  the
great  economists  whom  they  consulted,  had  a  shadow  of  doubt,
we  should  have  found  a  firm  basis  from  which  to  proceed  to  a
fruitful  consideration  of  the  great  economic  problems  of  the
day — namely,  the  better  distribution  of  the  product  of  industry,
the  stimulus  to  production  necessary  to  maintain  our  standard
of  life,  and  the  cure,  or  at  least  the  utmost  diminution,  of  un-
employment. The  sound  basis  from  which  we  should  start
would  eliminate  many  quack  remedies  now  current,  and  our
financial  and  economic  position  and  the  well-being  of  our  people
might  be  quickly  improved.


APPENDIX  I

EUROPE'S  ECONOmC  NEEDS

An  Address  ihade  to  the  Brussels  Conference  by  the
Hon.  R.  H.  Brand

It  is  my  duty  and  my  privilege  to  initiate  the  debate  in  this
conference  on  the  all-important  question  of  public  finance,  and  to
speak  not  as  the  representative  of  any  nation,  but  from  the  general
international  standpoint  of  the  League  of  Nations.  It  is  natural
that  in  the  time  at  my  disposal  I  cannot  do  more  than  paint  the
very  broadest  picture  of  the  subject.  Nor  do  I  claim  or  expect
to  say  anything  new  on  this  vastly  important  and  difficult  problem,
which  is  and  must  continue  to  be  the  constant  preoccupation  of  aU
the  Governments  of  Europe  and  of  very  many  of  the  distinguished
persons  gathered  here.  All  those  present  will  have  had  an  oppor-
tunity of  digesting  not  only  the  economic  declaration  of  the  Supreme
Council  of  March  8, 1920,  but  also  the  very  illuminating  memoranda
prepared  at  the  request  of  the  Secretariat  of  the  League  of  Nations
by  certain  distinguished  economic  experts.  All  these  documents
deal  largely  with  the  problems  of  pubUc  finance.  They  will  equally
no  doubt  have  studied  all  the  other  documents  relating  to  the  actual
financial  conditions  of  each  country,  its  revenue  and  expenditure,
its  debts,  funded  and  floating,  its  currency  conditions,  exchange  and
so  forth.  They  will  have,  therefore,  in  their  minds  not  only  the
general  principles  of  public  finance,  which  they  are  recommended
to  adopt  by  the  great  economic  experts  of  the  day,  but  the  actual
conditions  in  each  country  to  which  these  principles  must  be
applied.  I  confess  that  a  study  of  all  these  matters  leads  me  to
the  conclusion  that  the  great  difficulty  before  the  financial  leaders  of
the  world  is  to  know,  not  what  they  ought  to  do,  but  how  they  are
to  do  it.  The  goal  is  clear  ;  the  path  to  it  not  difficult  to  find  ;
the  question  is  how  to  surmount  the  obstacles,  in  some  cases  the
huge  obstacles,  both  economic  and  poHtical,  which  He  between.

Nevertheless,   notwithstanding   the   full   information   which   is

273  T


274  APPENDIX  I

already  before  the  conference,  it  may  be  useful  to  survey  broadly  the
various  main  aspects  of  the  present  unparalleled  situation.  During
the  last  100  years,  we  have  seen,  especially  in  Europe,  a  develop-
ment which  is  without  a  precedent  in  the  history  of  the  world.
During  that  period  and  solely  owing  to  new  methods  of  wealth
production,  the  capital  wealth  of  Europe,  and  consequently  its
population,  have  increased  at  a  far  greater  rate  than  ever  before,
until  now  that  population  is  far  denser  than  in  any  other  part  of
the  world.  The  density  of  population  in  Europe  is  estimated  at
123  persons  to  the  square  mile  ;  that  of  Asia  at  53  ;  that  of  North
and  Central  America  at  16  and  of  Australasia  2  J  ;  while  the  United
States  has  34  persons  to  the  square  mile.  Belgium  had  before  the
war  665,  the  United  Kingdom  358,  Germany  324,  Italy  330,  and
France  191.  The  growth  and  density  of  this  European  population
had  only  been  rendered  possible  by  a  highly  complex  organization
of  industry  and  finance,  by  intensive  methods  of  wealth-production,
and  by  a  vast  interchange  of  European  manufactured  articles
against  the  food  and  raw  materials  of  the  rest  of  the  world.  The
civilization  of  Europe  is  not  self-supporting.  The  actual  Uvelihood
of  its  teeming  miUions  is  dependent  on  the  smooth  worldng  of  the
great  international  financial  and  industrial  machine,  and  on  the
maintenance  of  the  fixed  and  circulating  capital  on  which  pro-
duction is  dependent.  Europe,  in  fact,  by  the  vast  growth  of  her
population,  had  given  hostages  to  fortune,  and  could  clearly  only
risk  war  at  the  cost  of  immense  ultimate  suffering  and  a  lowered
standard  of  life.  Nevertheless,  war  came,  and  lasted  four  years,
a  period  which,  I  think,  all  economists  would  have  predicted  as
almost  impossible.  I  shall  not  dwell  on  its  manifold  economic
results.  I  wish  merely  to  lay  stress  on  one,  which  is  the  fundamental
cause  of  all  our  difficulties,  and  which  has  therefore  an  all-important
effect  on  public  finance — namely,  the  huge  destruction  and  deteriora-
tion of  capital  and  the  consequent  impaired  productive  capacity  of
Europe.  It  is  true  that  only  in  the  case  of  certain  countries,
notably  France  and  Belgium — and  these  cases  must  have  our
special  sympathy — has  the  destruction  of  fixed  capital  been  on  a
very  great  scale.  But  in  all  the  belHgerent  countries  at  any  rate,
and  probably  in  a  minor  degree  in  some  of  the  neutrals,  the  loss  of
working  capital  and  the  deterioration  of  fixed  capital  represent  a
huge  sum,  and  have  had  in  all  cases  very  serious  and  in  some  cases
almost  disastrous  effects.  I  have  seen  estimates  that  in  my  own
country  we  have  lost  perhaps  one-sixth  of  our  pre-war  accumulated
capital ;  in  the  case  of  other  European  belligerents  the  proportion
is  probably  much  greater.     The  German  Government  estimated,


APPENDIX  I  276

it  appears,  at  Spa,  that  the  capital  value  of  German  wealth  had
been  reduced  from  220  billion  gold  marks  to  100  billion  gold  marks.

It  can  be  imagined  how  serious  is  this  great  loss  of  capital  to
a  continent  so  highly  developed  and  so  densely  populated.  The
depressing  effect  on  industry  and  trade  of  the  loss  entailed  by  a
single  bad  harvest  is  well  known.  Purchasing  power  is  diminished,
and  production  must  slacken  in  consequence.  Imagine  how  vastly
greater  must  be  the  consequences  of  the  war's  huge  destruction.
The  masses  can  only  secure  the  goods  they  want  in  exchange  for
the  goods  they  produce.  Rises  in  prices  and  wages  unaccompanied
by  increased  production  accomplish  nothing.

The  inadequacy  of  capital  and  consequently  of  productive  power
is  fundamental,  and  therefore  in  my  opinion  it  is  the  necessity
of  increasing  it  as  rapidly  as  possible  that  should  be  the  main
guide  to  pubUc  finance.  The  wealth  of  a  nation  must  precede  the
wealth  of  its  Government.

First,  then,  this  question  must  be  put.  Since  there  is  not  enough
capital  to  go  round,  which  is  to  have  it.  Governments  or  private
industry  ?  The  more  capital  is  absorbed  by  Governments,  the  less
is  available  for  private  industry.  It  is  only  too  clear  that  industry
in  all  countries  is  suffering  severely  from  want  of  capital.  The
rates  of  interest  demanded  are  constantly  rising,  and,  since  not
enough  money  can  be  obtained  from  the  public,  the  pressure  on
the  banks  for  credit  becomes  more  and  more  severe.  Which  is
likely  to  use  capital  more  productively.  Governments  or  private
industry  ?  If  the  answer  is  in  favour  of  private  industry — ^that  is,
to  use  the  words  of  a  statesman  of  my  country,  Mr.  Gladstone,  in
favour  of  allowing  money  to  fructify  in  the  pockets  of  the  people —
then,  except  in  the  cases  of  clearest  necessity,  it  is  imperative  that
Governments  should  restrict  their  expenditure  within  the  smallest
dimensions.

Secondly,  it  is  generally  recognized  that  continued  inflation,
which  is  primarily  due  to  excessive  Government  expenditure,  has
a  serious  effect  on  production.  It  is  not  sufficient  for  trade  and
industry  merely  to  have  capital.  They  must  have  some  stability
of  conditions  also.  They  require  stable  prices,  stable  exchanges,
stability  of  the  internal  and  external  financial  mechanism.  The
most  ominous  and  disquieting  feature  of  the  European  situation
to-day  is  the  constant  fluctuation  and  even  deterioration  of  the
exchanges,  the  gulf  which  still  exists  in  most  countries  in  Europe
between  pubHc  expenditure  and  revenue,  and  in  some  of  the  most
important  countries  the  still  continued  increase  of  the  floating
debt  and  of  currency.     Inflation,  as  Professor  Cassel  has  said,


276  APPENDIX  I

"  is  the  combined  result  of  an  artificial  creation  of  purchasing  power
in  order  to  finance  Government  expenditure  beyond  the  real  capacity
of  the  country  and  a  falsification  of  the  money  market  by  a  too
low  rate  of  interest,  in  both  cases  with  assistance  of  an  arbitrary
supply  of  legal  tender."  Inflation  indeed  is  at  bottom  the  result
of  a  dearth  of  real  capital  sufficient  to  meet  the  needs  of  the  Govern-
ments and  the  peoples.  The  greater  the  scarcity  of  capital,  the
more  insistent  becomes  the  impulse  both  on  the  Government  and
on  industry  to  secure  more  purchasing  power,  so  that  all  may
compete  for  the  capital  they  require  and  yet  cannot  get.  The  more
impoverished  becomes  a  nation,  therefore,  the  worse  becomes  the
inflation,  the  more  prices  are  driven  up,  the  worse  becomes  the
exchanges,  the  more  difficult  it  becomes  to  secure  the  imports
without  which  production  cannot  continue,  and  the  harder  it  becomes
to  remedy  the  disease.  The  only  remedy  for  inflation  is  to  arrest
the  increase  of  artfficial  purchasing  power,  whether  it  arises  from
the  direct  act  of  the  Government  in  increasing  floating  debts  or
legal  tender,  or  from  an  excessive  creation  of  credit  by  the  banks.
For  this  remedy  to  be  appHed,  there  is  needed  in  the  first  case  an
equiHbrium  between  the  Government's  ordinary  recurrent  expendi-
ture and  revenue  ;  in  the  second  case  an  abandonment  of  the  prac-
tice of  meeting  non-productive  expenditure  out  of  loans  and  a
limitation  even  of  productive  capital  expenditure  to  the  lowest
possible  amount — since  no  country  can  with  advantage  add  still
further  to  its  pubUc  debt — and  in  any  case  its  limitation  to  what
the  public  can  provide  out  of  their  real  savings.

The  first  and  most  important  duty  of  public  finance  is  that  a
Government  should  pay  its  way.  Without  that  there  is  no  founda-
tion either  for  its  own  economic  life  or  for  receiving  assistance
from  others.

But  it  may  be  argued  with  force  that  the  duty  of  Governments
in  the  prevention  of  inflation  does  not  stop  there.  Banks  can
inflate  as  well  as  Governments,  so  long  as  the  output  of  currency
is  unlimited.  It  seems  therefore  desirable  for  the  Governments  to
take  such  steps  as  are  within  their  power  to  secure  such  a  restriction
of  bank  credit  by  sufficiently  high  rates  of  discount  as  wiU  corre-
spond with  the  real  capital  available  for  industry  and  trade.  It  is
so  easy  to  suppose  that,  if  industry  is  in  need  of  money,  its  difficulties
will  be  solved  by  the  creation  of  further  credit ;  it  is  so  difficult
to  concede  that  cheap  money  may  actually  be  harmful  to  production,
and  may  raise  prices.  The  confusion  comes  from  failing  to  distin-
guish between  credit  and  capital.  The  real  limiting  factor  in  pro-
duction is  not  credit,  but  capital,  the  actual  goods  and  commodities


APPENDIX  I  277

available  which  cannot  be  increased  merely  by  increasing  credit.
In  1914  the  production  of  Europe  in  real  goods  was  far  greater  than
it  is  to-day  ;  there  was  no  lack  of  credit  and  the  industrial  plant
was  at  full  blast.  To-day  production  is  far  lower,  and  yet  credit
and  currency  have  been  doubled  and  quadrupled.  It  cannot  be
a  lack  of  credit  that  Hes  at  the  root  of  the  trouble.  The  real  evil
lies  in  the  constantly  advancing  prices  which  are  always  rendering
insufficient  the  capital  and  resources  of  industry  as  well  as  the
revenue  of  the  Government,  the  rise  in  prices  itself  being  caused
by  the  great  excess  of  the  demands  of  the  Government  over  the
resources  which  they  can  obtain  from  the  real  savings  of  the  people,
by  the  excessive  demands  of  industry  on  the  available  capital  of
the  country,  and,  I  may  add,  in  some  countries  by  the  necessity
to  import  food  and  other  materials  without  any  possibility  of  paying
by  exports,  with  the  consequent  complete  demoralization  of  the
exchanges.

There  are  many  things  we  cannot  now  do  that  we  could  have
done  before  the  war ;  there  are  many  schemes  and  developments
we  must  postpone,  many  commodities  we  must  do  without.  We
must  be  content  to  produce  what  is  of  the  most  immediate  use  to
the  community.  For  this  reason  it  is  a  duty  of  those  in  charge
of  public  finance  to  bring  about  some  correspondence  between  the
supply  of  real  capital  and  the  supply  of  money  by  imposing  or
recommending  sufficiently  high  rates  of  discount.  That  is  the
effective  means  of  diverting  the  insufficient  stream  of  capital  into
the  channels  where  it  is  most  needed  at  the  moment.  It  is  of  the
greatest  importance  that  capital  should,  as  far  as  possible,  be
applied  mainly  to  the  quick  production  of  immediately  consumable
articles.  High  rates  are  the  only  effective  method  of  restricting
development  on  lengthy  processes  of  production  and  of  forcing
commodities,  if  they  exist,  on  to  the  market.  Credit  is  always
inchned  to  burst  its  bounds,  a  tendency  enormously  intensified  in
a  period  of  rapidly  rising  prices.  It  is  only  by  means  of  high  rates
that  the  pressure  on  the  banks  can  be  maintained  within  bearable
limits,  and  can  be  eventually  diminished  sufficiently  to  allow  once
again  a  definitely  restricted  issue  of  currency  and  a  stable  standard
of  value  to  be  re-established.  If  this  view  is  correct  it  is  interesting
to  examine  the  table  in  paper  No.  3,  Currency  Statistics,  laid  before
the  conference,  containing  the  Bank  Rates  of  discount  in  the
respective  countries.  The  highest  rates  will  be  found  in  Japan,
the  United  Kingdom,  the  United  States,  the  Argentine  and  in  the
Scandinavian  countries  ;  the  rates  are  lower  in  those  European
countries  which  have  suffered  most  from  the  war  and  where  inflation


278  APPENDIX  I

is  far  more  serious.  It  is  naturally  useless  to  render  money  scarce
at  one  end  by  a  high  Bank  Rate,  while  at  the  other  end  purchasing
power  is  being  rapidly  increased  by  adding  to  the  currency  or  the
floating  debt.  A  policy  of  high  interest  rates  must  therefore  be
accompanied  by  a  cessation  by  Governments  of  the  practice  of
creating  additional  purchasing  power,  unbalanced  by  any  increase
in  production.  In  this  connection  it  is  important  also  to  note
that  saving,  which  it  is  of  such  vital  moment  to  encourage,  will
certainly  not  be  stimulated  by  low  interest  rates  accompanied  by  a
constant  depreciation  in  the  standard  in  which  such  savings  are
measured.  It  is  this  depreciation  which  leads  to  a  spirit  of  reckless
extravagance  and  a  determination  to  spend  at  once  what  in  any
case  is  likely  to  be  lost.

There  is  a  third  way  in  which  excessive  Government  expenditure
impedes  the  recovery  of  the  productive  process — namely,  by  neces-
sitating excessive  taxation.  I  do  not  propose  to  consider  the
important  and  difficult  question,  for  instance,  as  to  the  comparative
merits  of  direct  and  indirect  taxation  or  as  to  the  advantages  and
disadvantages  of  a  capital  levy  or  a  forced  loan.  These  are  matters
which  each  country  must  decide  for  itself  according  to  its  special
circumstances.  But  the  principle,  which  I  have  already  mentioned,
that  revenue  should  at  least  be  sufficient  to  meet  all  ordinary
recurring  expenditure,  including  interest  and  sinking  fund  on  debt,
is  apphcable  to  all  countries.  This  itself,  which  is  a  minimum
demanded  by  sound  pubUc  finance,  is  a  task  which  imposes  to-day
on  many  countries  very  severe  taxation.  As  soon  as  this  taxation
can  no  longer  be  paid  out  of  real  savings,  it  not  only  leads  to  further
inflation  and  to  further  increases  in  prices,  but  it  entrenches  on
the  capital  which  is  necessary  for  production.  Industrial  and
trading  companies  which  have  to  pay  away  huge  sums  in  taxation
find  themselves  short  of  working  capital.  Very  likely  they  cannot
raise  the  money  they  need  from  the  ordinary  investor,  and  they
are  driven  to  the  banks.  The  banks  are  faced  with  the  dilemma
either  of  seeing  the  industry  in  question  collapse  or  of  granting
them  credit.  As  long  as  an  unlimited  supply  of  currency  can  be
obtained  from  the  issuing  authority,  the  banks,  of  course,  can
provide  themselves  with  resources,  but  at  the  cost  to  the  community
of  further  inflation,  and  of  a  further  step  on  the  downward  path.
Moreover,  excessive  taxation,  while  limiting  the  possible  profits
of  enterprise,  does  nothing  to  lessen  the  risks  of  loss.  Conse-
quently it  is  bound  to  have  for  this  further  reason  a  depressing
effect  on  production.

From  whatever  angle,  therefore,  the  problem  is  examined,  one


APPENDIX  I  279

is  driven  always  to  the  same  conclusion  that  the  greatest  interest  of
public  finance  should  be  to  limit  Government  expenditure.  To
follow  this  policy  at  all  costs,  and  to  accompany  it  by  sufficiently
high  money  rates,  seems  to  be  the  only  means  of  arresting  inflation,
reaching  stabiUty  in  prices  and  exchanges,  and  rendering  possible
the  rehabiUtation  of  foreign  trade,  the  only  means,  in  fact,  by
which,  through  the  encouragement  of  production  and  saving,
Europe  can  within  a  reasonable  period  replace  the  capital  lost  in  the
war.

It  is  easy  to  enunciate  such  principles.  Few  people  will  dispute
them.  But  an  examination  of  the  actual  facts  of  the  situation
quickly  reveals  the  extreme  difficulties  in  the  way  of  putting  them
wholly  into  practice.  The  figures  I  have  been  supplied  with  by  the
Secretariat  of  the  League  of  Nations  show  how  enormously  net
Government  expenditure  has  increased  proportionately  to  the  total
national  income  in  the  case  of  nearly  all  countries.  This  percentage
has  increased  in  the  case  of  the  United  Kingdom  from  7 "7  per  cent
to  26  per  cent,  and  in  the  case  of  France  from  12  8  per  cent  to
35 '7  per  cent,  and  these  are  merely  typical  examples.  The  largest
items  in  the  budgets  of  European  Governments  to-day  are,  of
course,  the  direct  consequence  of  the  war,  such  as  armaments,
interest  on  debt,  war  pensions,  subsidies  on  food,  houses,  and  so
forth,  and  deficits  on  public  undertakings  such  as  railways.  In
certain  cases  the  largest  item  of  all  is  the  actual  reconstruction  of
devastated  areas.

The  expenditure  on  reconstruction,  the  great  sums  spent  on  the
service  of  debts  and  on  pensions,  together  with  the  civil  service
expenditure  on  the  normal  functions  of  Government — for  instance,
justice,  education,  and  so  forth — cannot  well  be  reduced,  and  these
amount  to  a  very  large  proportion  of  any  budget.

But  large  economies  can  certainly  be  made,  if  it  is  determined,
first,  to  reduce  expenditure  on  armaments  ;  secondly,  to  abolish  all
such  uneconomical  expenditure  as  unemployment  doles,  subsidies
on  bread,  coal,  housing  and  so  forth  ;  and  thirdly,  to  raise  railway
rates,  postal  rates  and  other  Government  charges  sufficiently  to
cover  the  cost  of  the  service  given.  All  such  uneconomical  expendi-
ture, if  persisted  in,  must  result  in  undue  consumption  and  further
inflation  through  an  increase  in  Government  expenditure  unbalanced
by  revenue.  The  more  they  are  indulged  in  the  more  difficult
they  are  to  dispense  with.

Any  large  reduction  in  the  expenditure  of  Governments  can  only
come,  therefore,  through  a  change  of  policy,  a  determination,  so
far  from  extending,  to  diminish  the  sphere  of  Government  activity.


280  APPENDIX  I

"  Give  me  a  sound  policy,"  is  a  well-known  saying,  "  and  I  will
give  you  sound  finance."

It  is  idle  to  disguise  from  ourselves  the  difficulties  of  the  task.
It  is  a  paradox  of  the  situation  that,  urgent  as  is  this  Hmitation  of
expenditure  on  financial  and  economical  grounds,  the  whole  force
of  public  opinion  still  seems  to  be  exerted  in  the  opposite  direction.
The  war  has  led  to  an  almost  universal  demand  for  the  extension  of
Government  functions.  Every  one  has  grown  accustomed  to
State  assistance  and  State  activity.  Sociahsm  and  nationahzation
are  the  order  of  the  day.  The  manual  workers,  at  any  rate  in  some
of  the  victorious  countries,  were  encouraged  to  expect,  and  do
expect,  some  new  way  of  life  ;  some  great  betterment  of  their  lot.
These  changes,  they  believe,  at  any  rate  in  my  country,  can  be
achieved  if  the  system  of  private  industry  is  replaced  by  some  sort
of  Government  or  common  ownership.  They  do  not  realize  the
hard  truth  that  no  system  can  immediately  restore  capital  that  has
been  destroyed,  and  that,  whatever  changes  are  made,  a  better  life
can,  owing  to  the  losses  of  the  war,  be  now  only  reached  through
labour  and  suffering.  Many  social  reforms  await  fulfilment,  but
the  first  of  all,  on  which  all  others  depend,  is  sound  finance  and  a
stable  currency.

One  urgent  task — namely,  the  reduction  of  armaments — can  only
be  tackled  by  all  Governments  jointly.  Europe,  it  is  estimated  in
the  figures  provided  by  the  Secretariat  of  the  League  of  Nations,
is  spending  to-day  on  armaments,  calculated  at  pre-war  prices,  at
least  as  much  as  and,  indeed,  stiU  more  than  she  was  spending  in
1913.     It  is  a  burden  she  cannot  support.

Apart  from  the  Hmitation  of  expenditure,  another  important
function  of  pubHc  finance  is  to  provide  not  only  the  interest  upon,
but  also  a  definite  sinking  fund  to  redeem  gradually  the  funded
debt ;  and  to  fund  as  soon  as  possible  the  floating  debts  which  at
present  form  a  danger  to  financial  stabiHty.  Financial  stabiUty
and  confidence  can  never  be  restored  so  long  as  Governments  are
faced  with  the  risk  of  having  to  meet  enormous  demands  for  the
repayment  of  short-dated  debt  by  the  issue  of  additional  paper
currency.  But  it  should  be  observed  that  only  when  it  is  provided
out  of  an  actual  surplus  of  revenue  over  expenditure  does  the
apphcation  of  a  sinking  fund  to  the  funded  debt  actually  reduce
debt.  The  funding  of  the  fioating  debts,  failing  any  possibility
of  reducing  them  out  of  revenue,  or  by  methods  of  compulsion,  is
contingent  on  the  confidence  which  the  people  of  a  country  feel  in
its  Government  and  in  the  power  of  that  Government  to  attract  its
people's  savings  towards  long-dated  public  loans.    There  are  many


APPENDIX  I  281

advocates  of  compulsory  methods,  such  as  a  capital  levy  or  forced
loan,  to  secure  an  immediate  large  reduction  in  the  debt.  It  is
questionable  whether  such  methods  are  from  the  practical  point  of
view  Hkely  to  show  advantages  over  a  more  gradual  process.

The  Governments  of  all  the  great  belligerent  countries  must
also  undertake  the  solution  of  the  problem  of  their  external  debt,
reparation  being  from  this  point  of  view  tantamount  to  the
external  debt  of  Germany  and  Austria.  The  largest  creditor  of
the  allied  nations  is  of  course  the  United  States,  to  which  nearly
$11,000,000,000  was  owing  on  March  1,  1920.  It  is  interesting
to  note  that  the  total  European  exports  to  the  United  States
in  1919  were  in  value  $750,000,000,  representing,  if  they  were
all  available  in  payment  of  interest  upon  and  redemption  of  debt,
a  return  of  a  little  under  7  per  cent.  For  two  reasons,  how-
ever, this  is  not  a  fair  criterion  of  Europe's  capacity.  In  the  first
place,  1919  being  the  first  year  after  the  war,  is  not  a  representa-
tive year,  and  in  the  second  place,  Europe's  capacity  to  repay  the
United  States  depends  not  only  on  her  exports  to  that  country,  but
on  any  favourable  balance  she  may  have  in  other  countries  as  well.
Nevertheless,  it  is  obvious  to  every  one,  debtor  and  creditor  alike,
that  time  for  the  repayment  of  these  debts  must  be  given.  What
is  required  in  the  interest  of  public  finance  and  of  the  financial
community  as  a  whole  is  certainty,  and  that  these  and  other  foreign
debts  should  be  funded  and  the  redemption  dates  fixed  definitely.
Unless  this  is  done  every  Government  is  left  in  a  state  of  harassing
uncertainty,  which  undermines  confidence  and  tends  to  affect
adversely  the  situation.

During  the  war  the  belligerent  Governments  paid  little  or  no
heed  to  economic  laws.  Their  objects  were  to  concentrate  all  the
economic  power  of  their  own  people  on  warlike  energies  and  to
destroy  the  economic  power  of  their  enemies.  Many  restrictions
were  therefore  imposed  on  free  dealing  and  free  trade  internally
and  many  measures  adopted,  such  as  the  limitation  of  the  rent  of
houses,  or  the  imposition  of  maximum  prices,  or  the  control  of
capital  issues  or  of  the  exchanges,  which  were  designed  either  to
prevent  the  full  force  of  the  true  economic  situation  from  falling
on  the  mass  of  the  people,  or  to  limit  all  national  activities  to  war.
Similarly  there  were  many  restrictions  of  external  trade,  extending
in  the  case  of  the  enemy  to  complete  cessation  of  all  relations  and
to  confiscation  of  private  property.

There  are  many  relics  of  this  system  so  far  as  internal  conditions
are  concerned.  It  is  certain  that,  from  the  point  of  view  of  these,
rapid   production   of  wealth,   the   interference   by   Governments


282  APPENDIX  I

with  ordinary  economic  laws,  is  almost  wholly  mischievous.  It
is  no  doubt  true  that  the  circumstances  produced  by  the  war  and
these  exceptional  measures  are  so  abnormal  that  complete  freedom —
for  instance,  in  gold  movements,  or  in  certain  exceptional  cases  as
regards  the  price  of  food  or  other  articles — can  only  be  restored
gradually.  There  may  also  be  cases  where  some  restriction  is
necessary — for  instance,  in  order  to  prevent  the  export  of  capital
to  escape  taxation,  or  where  the  external  value  of  a  currency  is
much  below  its  internal  value.  For  in  such  a  case  a  country  may
be  drained  of  its  resources  by  the  bonus  on  export,  as  happened  in
what  is  known  as  Germany's  "  clearance  sale."  But  in  general
these  restrictions  give  rise  to  a  constantly  growing  series  of  other
difficulties.  It  should,  therefore,  be  the  aim  of  Government  to
give  back  freedom  to  individual  initiative  in  all  matters  of  finance,
commerce  and  industry  with  the  least  possible  delay.

So  far  as  international  relations  between  one  country  and  another
are  concerned,  the  difficulties  are  greater  and  the  evils  of  the  present
situation  still  greater  too.  There  is  far  less  freedom  of  trade  between
the  countries  of  Europe  now  than  before  the  war.  Inter-state
rivalry  is  far  more  acute,  and  there  are  far  more  states  to  be  rivals.
Among  many  states  it  seems  to  be  considered  the  height  of  economic
wisdom  to  reserve  the  resources  of  the  state  exclusively  to  its  own
citizens,  or,  if  its  products  are  allowed  to  be  exported,  to  distribute
them  according  to  political  considerations.  If  all  these  countries
were  as  prosperous  as  they  cared  to  be,  then  pohtical  considerations
might  be  allowed  to  govern.  But  they  are  ruined,  and  the  resources
they  each  possess  within  themselves  can  never  suffice  to  extricate
them  from  their  difficulties.  Thus  their  only  salvation  is  freely
to  trade  with  one  another  and  so  pool  their  resources.  No  recovery
on  other  lines  is  possible.  Europe  must  have  real  peace  and  real
international  co-operation.  This  is  the  conviction  that  deepens
on  me  personally  every  day.  I  am  here  representing  no  particular
country,  but  free  to  regard  the  problems  before  us  as  a  citizen  of
Europe.  I  five  my  life  in  the  profession  of  international  banking,
and  day  by  day  my  business  brings  me  in  touch  with  many  aspects
of  international  economic  relations,  and  proves  to  me  that  by  far
the  greatest  obstacle  to  the  resumption  of  normal  conditions  is
Europe's  pohtical  instabihty  and  uncertainty,  which  clouds  every
international  business  transaction  with  a  risk  that  no  man  of
business  is  able  to  measure.  My  experience  convinces  me  that
Europe  has  two  paths  only  open  to  her.  Either  she  may  take  the
path  of  despair  and  assume  that  the  sort  of  peace  we  have  now  is
merely  an  interlude  between  wars,  or  she  may  take  the  path  of


APPENDIX  I  283

hope  and  accept  the  risks  of  mutual  trust,  Government  between
Government  and  nation  between  nation.  In  the  first  case  I  see  no
hope  either  of  real  economic  recovery  or  of  a  stable  future  for
western  civilization.  If  she  chooses  the  second  path,  the  pessimists
may  still  be  right.  Our  divisions  may  be  too  deep  and  in  our
mutual  trust  we  may  be  deceived.  But  even  then  we  shall  be
no  worse  off  than  if  we  had  taken  the  other  path,  and  at  least  we
shall  have  given  ourselves  the  chance  of  success.  But  I  myself
am  an  optimist.  I  lived  many  years  of  my  life  in  South  Africa  and
have  seen  for  myself  the  wonderful  results  of  mutual  trust  between
former  foes.  Inevitable  difficulties  recur,  and  it  is  many  years,
indeed  generations,  before  the  past  is  obliterated.  But  if  the  seed
is  once  well  sown  the  tree  will  grow.


APPENDIX  II

MEMORANDUM  ON  THE  ALLIED  FINANCIAL  POSITION
(August  29,  1916)

1.  The  principal  danger  of  the  Allies  losing  the  war  now  lies
in  a  collapse  of  their  external  finance,  which  wiU  cut  off  some
supplies  which  are  absolutely  necessary  to  them.  This  danger
will  turn  into  a  certainty  within  the  next  twelve  months  unless
measures  are  taken  immediately  to  forestall  it.

2.  It  must  be  recognized  that  the  Allies,  whatever  manufacturing
capacity  they  may  develop,  cannot  continue  the  war  unless  they
continue  to  be  suppHed  with  a  certain  quantity  of  suppHes  from  the
United  States — e.g.,  some  food,  some  copper,  nickel,  some  steel,
etc.     They  will  not  get  these  supplies  unless  they  can  pay  for  them.

3.  It  does  not  appear  to  have  been  realized  that  for  making
payments  in  the  United  States  the  resources  of  the  British  Govern-
ment— which  has  to  pay  for  all  the  Allies — are  strictly  limited.
It  cannot  pay,  as  it  and  aU  other  Governments  can  pay  for  internal
expenditure,  by  creating  credit.  It  has  a  limited  sum  at  its  disposal
in  the  shape  of  gold  and  dollar  securities  and  no  more.  When
that  is  exhausted  it  can  buy  no  more,  not  even  the  most  necessary
supplies.

4.  Both  British  and  Russian  purchases  in  the  United  States
up  to  the  present  have  apparently  been  based  on  the  theory  that
Great  Britain  had  either  unlimited  or  very  elastic  resources  to  draw
on  in  payment  for  these  purchases.  If  it  had  been  reahzed  that  this
was  not  so,  no  doubt  greater  care  would  have  been  exercised  so  as
to  spread  out  the  amount  available  over  a  longer  time.

5.  In  the  first  two  years  of  war  the  British  Government  for  itself
and  its  AUies  spent  between  300  and  400  million  pounds  sterhng
in  purchases  in  the  United  States.  It  borrowed  50  million  pounds
in  New  York  (its  share  of  the  Anglo-French  Loan)  and  paid  for  the
rest  partly  by  exporting  gold,  but  mainly  by  the  sale  of  dollar
securities  which  were  gathered  in  from  British  holders.

284


APPENDIX  II  285

6.  The  British  Government  has  to  pay  a  further  500  million
pounds  sterling  or  thereabouts  in  the  United  States  for  the  balance
of  orders  already  given  or  about  to  be  given  by  itself  or  its  Allies.
Most  of  this  600  miUions  will  fall  due  before  June,  1917 — except  in
so  far  as  orders  can  be  cancelled.

7.  The  payment  of  this  500  million  pounds  "wiU  nearly  or  quite
exhaust  the  balance  of  our  dollar  securities  and  the  gold  which  we
and  our  Allies  can  give  up.  We  shall  then  have  no  further  means
of  making  payments  in  the  United  States,  and  shall  be  unable  to
obtain  even  the  most  necessary  supplies,  such  as  copper,  without
which  we  cannot  continue  our  own  manufacture  of  munitions  on
an  adequate  scale.

8.  An  additional  consequence  of  the  exhaustion  of  the  Govern-
ment fund  for  making  payments  in  the  United  States  will  be  the
collapse  of  the  dollar  exchange.  At  present,  apart  altogether  from
Government  purchases,  the  civil  population  of  Great  Britain  import
from  the  United  States  far  more  than  they  export.  Consequently,
even  after  allowing  for  the  credits  due  to  Great  Britain  on  account
of  freight,  etc.,  exchange  is  now  only  kept  up  by  the  Treasury
making  large  weekly  payments  to  New  York  for  that  purpose.
These  payments  come  out  of  the  fund  created  from  the  sale  of
dollar  securities,  which  is  thus  still  further  diminished.

9.  As  soon  as  the  Treasury  is  no  longer  able  to  make  these  pay-
ments there  will  be  a  complete  coUapse  in  American  exchange,  one
effect  of  which  will  be  an  enormous  rise  in  the  prices  of  foodstuffs
in  the  United  KLingdom  and  France.  They  may  be  expected  even
to  treble  or  quadruple  aU  at  once,  meat  going  to  ten  shiQings  a
pound,  and  bread  to  half-a-crown  a  loaf.

10.  The  above  position  has  arisen  through  orders  being  given
in  the  United  States  as  if  our  resources  for  payment  there  were
unlimited.  If  the  truth  had  been  imderstood  and  orders  had  been
limited  to  what  was  absolutely  necessary,  probably  they  would
have  been  cut  down  by  half,  thus  spreading  the  amount  available
over  twice  the  time.  The  spending  departments  cannot  be  blamed
for  their  attitude  in  the  matter.  Their  business  is  to  provide
whatever  may  be  likely  to  be  required  in  the  fullest  possible  measure
with  a  margin  over  in  case  of  accident.  Often  to  place  large
orders  in  the  United  States  seems  the  best  way  of  making  the  provi-
sion. That  is  stiU  their  attitude.  Consequently  orders  continue
to  be  placed  in  the  United  States  both  on  British  and  Russian
account,  not  because  they  are  really  essential,  but  because  they
give  a  useful  margin  of  supply,  or  as  an  insurance  against  failure
to  produce  elsewhere,  or  simply  because  it  seems  the  easiest  and


286  APPENDIX   II

quickest  way  of  getting  the  supplies,  as  compared  with  the  trouble
and  possible  delay  of  arranging  for  the  production  of  them  at  home.

11.  This  would  be  a  perfectly  proper  attitude  on  the  part  of  the
spending  departments,  if  we  had  unlimited  means  of  paying  in  the
United  States.  In  the  actual  circumstances  of  the  case  it  is  a  suicidal
policy,  since  it  is  leading  inevitably  to  a  speedy  collapse  of  our
credit  there,  which  will  deprive  us  and  our  Allies  of  supphes  which
really  are  necessary  to  the  continuance  of  the  War.

12.  If  expenditures  in  the  United  States  are  continued  on  their
present  scale  such  a  collapse  must  inevitably  come  some  time
between  June  and  December,  1917.  (That  is  not  to  say  that  it
might  not  come  earlier  by  accident  or  mistake.)  If  therefore  the
Government  wish  to  be  in  a  position  to  continue  the  war  after  that
date,  they  will  have  to  take  the  following  measures  at  once  : —

{a)  To  go  through  the  outstanding  orders  and  cut  them  down
as  far  as  possible.  It  is  notorious  that  there  are  orders  for
hundreds  of  millions  of  dollars  outstanding  in  the  United
States  for  articles  which  are  no  longer  required,  but  which
will  be  delivered  and  have  to  be  paid  for  in  1917  unless
the  orders  can  be  cancelled.

{b)  To  establish  a  financial  control  over  the  spending  departments
as  far  as  expenditures  in  the  United  States  (or  other  neutral
countries)  are  concerned.  No  further  order  whatever
should  be  placed  in  the  United  States  (or  other  neutral
countries)  till  it  has  been  passed  by  this  financial  control,
which  should  see  that  it  is  cut  down  to  what  is  strictly
necessary,  having  regard  to  the  total  sum  available  for
payments  in  the  United  States  and  to  the  purchases  which
have  to  be  covered  as  long  as  the  war  continues.

13.  The  old  financial  control  of  the  Treasury  over  the  spending
departments  is  in  abeyance,  and  would  hardly  be  suitable  for  the
purpose  indicated  in  the  above  paragraph,  even  it  if  were  possible
to  re-estabhsh  it.  Probably  what  is  needed  is  a  special  committee
of  control  on  which  both  the  Treasury  and  the  spending  departments
would  be  represented  and  which  would  itseH  be  responsible  to  the
War  Council  or  to  a  Finance  Committee  thereof.

14.  The  enemy  are  undoubtedly  aware  of  the  position.  The
extent  alike  of  our  resources  and  of  our  commitments  in  the  United
States  must  be  known  to  them,  at  any  rate  approximately.  If  they
know  we  are  running  into  a  coUapse  within  a  year  or  eighteen  months
at  the  outside,  they  have  every  inducement  to  hold  out  if  possible
till  this  takes  place.  This  inducement  is  removed  if  they  know  we
are  prepared  and  able  to  go  on  longer  if  necessary.


APPENDIX  II  287

16.  It  is  supposed  by  many  people  that  even  when  our  gold  and
dollar  securities  arc  exhausted  we  can  borrow  indefinitely  in  the
United  States  cither  on  our  unsupported  credit,  or  by  using  other
foreign  securities  as  collateral,  or  even  British  (e.g.,  railway  securi-
ties). This  is  not  the  case.  The  American  investor  will  buy  back
his  own  dollar  securities  as  long  as  he  has  the  money  to  do  so,  but
he  will  not  buy  foreign  securities  of  any  kind  in  any  quantity.  The
Anglo-French  Loan  is  not  yet  absorbed  by  the  private  investor.
Consequently  any  lending  on  British  credit  or  on  foreign  securities
can  only  be  done  by  banks  and  trust  companies  and  the  quantity
of  loans  which  these  can  absorb  on  any  terms  whatever  is  limited.
Probably  it  does  not  exceed  at  the  outside  one  hundred  and  fifty
miUions  sterling,  which  at  our  present  rate  of  expenditure  in  the
United  States  would  not  last  us  for  four  months.  In  this  connection
it  must  be  remembered  that  nearly  all  the  foreign  securities  held
here,  except  the  American,  are  in  sterling  and  that  if  exchange  is
threatened  the  value  of  sterling  securities  as  collateral  would  be  at
once  gravely  impaired.  This  would  be  likely  to  prevent  even  the
American  banks  from  accepting  sterling  securities  as  collateral
beyond  a  limited  amount.  But  even  if  the  banks  regarded  such
securities  as  acceptable  collateral  without  reserve,  they  cannot  go
on  indefinitely  increasing  loans  which  they  cannot  pass  on  to  the
investing  public.


Printed  in  Great  Britain  by  Butler  &  Tanner,  Frame  and  London*


RETURN    CIRCULATION  DEPARTMENT

TO— »    202  Main  Library


LOAN  PERIOD  1
HOME  USE


ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS

Renewals  and  Recharges  may  be  made  4  days  prior  to  the  due  date.

Books  may  be  Renewed  by  calling        642-3405


DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW

iiEtlflFflTT  JEC

U'95

FORM  NO.  DD6


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA,  BERKELEY
BERKELEY,  CA  94720


LD  21-10


..4.„!i;..?^^'^f  LEY  LIBRARIES


/;


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY


